30-05-2021||India||Hackers steal ₹39.6 lakh from 3 ATMs of bank in Kolkata||A group of criminals in Kolkata hacked into three automated teller machines (ATM) of a private bank between May 14 and 22 and stole ₹39.6 lakh in several instalments, police said. Officers from the detective department of the Kolkata Police, while investigating the case, found that none of the machines located in the New Market, Jadavpur and Cossipore police station areas were forcibly broken. The hackers made the machines dispense cash by connecting to the bank’s server using a small device that was apparently attached to cables in the ATM, said Murlidhar Sharma, joint commissioner of police (crime). Experts told the police that end-to-end encryption in the communication between the ATM terminal and bank’s server was broken. Similar crimes took place in Delhi in the past. A specific type of ATM, that was not upgraded to stop such crimes, was hacked, Sharma added. Three cases were registered by the bank on May 25 and 28. The police are looking for the criminals.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/hackers-steal-rs-39-6-lakh-from-3-atms-of-bank-in-kolkata-101622396502287.html
30-05-2021||India||Bengal BJP leader Mukul Roy’s son calls for self-criticism after poll defeat||Self-criticism is more necessary than criticizing a government elected by people, Subhranshu Roy, son of Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) national vice-president and Bengal leader Mukul Roy, has said on his social media page causing embarrassment for the party. Though he did not name any party or state, social media users took it as an obvious reference to Bengal. While Mukul Roy won the Krishnanagar North seat in Nadia district in the recent assembly polls, his son was defeated from the Bijpur seat that he held in North 24 Parganas district. Both were earlier with the ruling Trinamool Congress (TMC). Mukul Roy, who was the TMC’s founder member and a close aide of Mamata Banerjee, joined the BJP in 2017. His son switched sides two years later. Mukul Roy was the BJP’s election strategist in the 2019 Bengal Lok Sabha polls in which the saffron camp bagged 18 of the state’s 42 seats. The scenario changed in the assembly polls with the TMC winning 213 of the state’s 294 seats against the BJP’s 77. The main opposition party had sworn to win more than 200 seats and oust the Mamata Banerjee government. With many TMC turncoats now trying to return to the old party, Subhranshu Roy’s post raised speculations. He avoided the media saying his mother was admitted in hospital. Mukul Roy, too, was in the hospital. The post, which Roy wrote on Saturday night, went unnoticed till Sunday afternoon. “Someone can express a personal opinion. BJP’s policies are not decided by Facebook posts,” said the party’s state president Dilip Ghosh. TMC leaders said the young leader had said the right thing. “He often shows signs of inexperience but he has said something right. Since he is Mukul Roy’s son we have affection for him but it is Mamata Banerjee who decides whether deserters can return to the party or not,” said TMC Lok Sabha member Saugata Roy. An accused in the Narada sting operation case being probed by the Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI), Mukul Roy resigned from the TMC in September 2017. He was suspended for six years for anti-party activities. He also resigned from the Rajya Sabha in October, 2017. He joined the BJP in November that year. In September 2020, Roy was made national vice-president of the BJP. Subhranshu Roy joined the BJP in May 2019. The state assembly has 294 seats but polls were held in 292 as two candidates died of Covid-19 before elections were held. The BJP won 77 seats but its tally came down to 75 as two of its winning candidates resigned to retain their Lok Sabha seats.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/bengal-bjp-leader-mukul-roy-s-son-calls-for-self-criticism-after-poll-defeat-101622395842393.html
30-05-2021||India||Indian jet in Dominica for Choksi, he went out of Antigua with girlfriend: Gaston Browne||India seems to be going all out as it has sent a private jet to get Mehul Choksi repatriated directly from Dominica, Antigua and Barbuda’s Prime Minister Gaston Browne has told the local media there. Browne also claimed that Choksi may have taken his girlfriend to Dominica on a romantic trip and got caught. A Bombardier Global 5,000 jet of Qatar Executive had mysteriously landed at Dominica’s Douglas Charles airport on Saturday. It’s publicly accessible flight path shows that it took off from New Delhi on May 28 and reached Dominica via Madrid. PM Browne, who has been vocal about not accepting Choksi back in his country, where he is a citizen, said, “My understanding is that [the] Indian government has sent certain documentation from courts in India to confirm that Choksi is indeed a fugitive”. These documents, Browne added, will be utilised in the court case in Dominica, where a judge is hearing the matter and has put a stay on repatriation till Wednesday. “Indian government seems to be going all out to make sure he is repatriated to India to stand trial,” Browne told a FM channel in Antigua. The interview was posted by Antigua Newsroom on its website. On the circumstances under which Choksi reached Dominica, Browne said – “The information that we are getting is that Mehul Choksi may have taken his girlfriend to Dominica probably to have dinner or have a good time and so on and got caught. That would have been a monumental error because in Antigua he is a citizen, we could not deport him...,” he said. Indian officials were tight-lipped about the team which has flown to Dominica along with the documents, but they said this was their “window of opportunity” to bring Choksi to India because once he reaches Antigua, he will have citizenship rights and the extradition case can linger on for years. Officials in New Delhi also confirmed to HT that Choksi’s Indian citizenship was never cancelled, which gives an edge to India before Dominica to seek his deportation. Choksi’s mysterious disappearance from Antigua last Sunday and detention in Dominica, island nation about 101 nautical miles away, has caused a political storm in Antigua, where he is a citizen. Antiguan PM Browne on Saturday accused the country’s key opposition party -- United Progressive Party (UPP) of taking funds from Mehul Choksi for its political campaigns. The UPP had issued a statement on Saturday in favour of Choksi saying that he should get his constitutional and legal rights as a citizen of Antigua. Browne had hit back at UPP saying-- “After mischievously accusing my administration of harbouring Mehul Choksi, who has an Interpol Red Notice, they are now seeking to sanitise this fugitive to get campaign funding...There has been no violation of Choksi’s legal and constitutional protections, despite the decision of my administration to revoke his citizenship.” Earlier, on Saturday, Antigua Newsroom had released Mehul Choksi’s pictures while in custody of Dominica police. In one of the photos, he is seen standing behind bars with his left eye swollen while another photo showed bruises on his arm. Choksi’s lawyers Wayne Marsh and Vijay Aggarwal had alleged the businessman was abducted from Antigua and tortured on the way to Dominica and in custody. He had gone missing from Antigua last Sunday following which a manhunt had begun in the region. To be sure, Choksi is currently out of police custody and has been placed at a quarantine facility in Roseau, where he is allowed to meet his lawyers. Choksi’s lawyer Vijay Aggarwal said – “All these theories of Mehul Choksi fleeing from Antigua voluntarily are opposed to common sense. Firstly, he has a stay in his favour in Antigua. Secondly, I have been informed that his passport is in Antigua only, so nobody will try to escape without having his passport in his pocket. Brutal marks on body and this passport factor now establish abduction claims.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/indian-jet-in-dominica-for-choksi-he-went-out-of-antigua-with-girlfriend-gaston-browne-101622394282382.html
30-05-2021||India||Some states extend Covid-19 curbs, others give relaxation: Check full list||Amid the rising number of coronavirus disease (Covid-19), several states in the country have extended lockdown-like curbs to check the spread of the infection. There are also a few states which have not extended the restrictions, but have instead given some relaxations.India on Sunday recorded 165,553 fresh cases of coronavirus disease, taking the country's cumulative tally past 27.8 million, according to the Union health ministry. The country also saw 3,460 deaths in the last 24 hours. A total of 325,972 people have died due to the coronavirus disease, data updated at 8am showed. The country's death toll has been below 4,000 for the fourth straight day.Delhi, Maharashtra, Haryana, Odisha and Telangana are the latest states to extend the Covid-19 lockdown.Here's a list of states where Covid-19 lockdown has been extended:Delhi will begin the unlock process from May 31 with some easing of restrictions but other lockdown curbs will continue till June 7.Haryana has extended lockdown till June 7 with some easing of restrictions.Chandigarh administration has imposed night and weekend curfew restrictions till May 31.Punjab has extended the coronavirus restrictions till June 10.Bihar has imposed the Covid-19 lockdown till June 1.Jharkhand has imposed Covid-19 lockdown till June 3.Odisha has extended lockdown till June 17.The West Bengal government has extended ongoing Covid-19 restrictions till June 15.Rajasthan has extended Covid-19 lockdown till June 8.10.Kerala has extended lockdown till June 9 with some concessions.11.Tamil Nadu, Puducherry and Karnataka have extended Covid-19 lockdown till June 7.12.Telangana has extended lockdown for 10 days from May 31.13.The Goa government has also decided to extend the ongoing "corona curfew" by another week till June 7.14.Nagaland has extended the lockdown till June 11.15.Uttarakhand has imposed a strict Covid-19 curfew till June 1.16.Mizoram has extended the lockdown, which was imposed in Aizawl and other district headquarters, till June 6.17.Himachal Pradesh government has extended the coronavirus curbs till June 7 with some relaxation.18.Meghalaya has extended Covid-19 lockdown in the worst-affected East Khasi Hills district till June 7.19.Tripura government has extended corona curfew in Agartala Municipal Corporation (AMC) areas and all urban local bodies (ULB) till June 5.20.The Manipur government has imposed curfew in seven districts of Imphal West, Imphal East, Bishnupur, Ukhrul, Thoubal, Kakching and Churachandpur till June 11.21.Arunachal Pradesh has imposed complete lockdown in Anjaw, Dibang Valley, Lower Subansiri, Lohit and Tawang districts and the capital complex region till June 7.22.Gujarat has extended night curfew in 36 cities of the state till June 4. Educational institutions, auditoriums, theatres, malls, community halls, water parks, spas, gyms, gardens and swimming pools, will remain closed in the cities.23.The month-long Covid-19 restrictions in Tirupati and its entire Chittoor district of Andhra Pradesh would be further intensified and extended for a fortnight from June 1 to June 15 in view of Covid-19 cases.24.The Sikkim government has extended its statewide lockdown till June 7 amid the surge in Covid-19 cases.Here's a list of states where Covid-19 lockdown has been relaxed:In Lucknow, Uttar Pradesh chief secretary R K Tiwari announced a relaxation of lockdown in the state with certain activities allowed from June 1. However, 20 districts including the state capital Lucknow will not benefit from this as they have more than 600 active Covid-19 cases.Jammu and Kashmir administration has also started the unlock process in the Union territory, limiting the corona curfew to night hours and weekends only.Madhya Pradesh has announced separate unlock guidelines for districts. Weekend lockdown will continue beyond May 31.(With PTI inputs)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/some-states-extend-covid-19-curbs-others-give-relaxation-check-full-list-101622386803569.html
30-05-2021||India||No evidence to indicate artificial origin of Covid-19: Ex-ICMR head scientist||There is no evidence to indicate if Covid-19 was zoonotic infection or it was artificially created, said Dr Raman R Gangakhedkar, former Head Scientist of Epidemiology and Communicable Diseases at the Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR)."We must remember that if you look at the global data every year, close to about hundred accidents occur even in BSL-4 laboratories which are expected to hold these high risk pathogens and ensure that they are properly maintained in their cultures," he said in an interview with ANI.He added, "We still do not have any evidence whether it is artificially created and then spilled out of the laboratory nor, there is any evidence that it came as a zoonotic infection. We need to wait for evidence to emerge to say conclusively about the origin of the virus."Speaking about the country's vaccination strategy, he said that all efforts have to be made to obtain the vaccines."Now that vaccine doses are not available, we have opened up the purchases from other foreign manufacturers for approved vaccines. We are open to buying these vaccines from other countries as well and we have also invested in increasing the capacity of the vaccines of indigenous vaccines manufacturers," Gangakhedkar said.He also said that it would be 'prudent' to focus on vaccinating people in the 45 age group, given that it will take a while to get adequate doses."Given that it will take some time to get adequate doses, it would be prudent to first focus on the people who fall in the bracket of 45 years of age. We know that the second wave is on a decline. We should utilise this opportunity to reduce the challenge that a potential third wave can pose to healthcare infrastructure. If we can do that in a massive way I am sure we will be able to make a huge difference with respect to the challenges that will be thrown to the health infrastructure," he added.On being asked how the new dominant B.1.6171.2 variant can be dangerous, this particular mutant might have higher transmission efficiency which means if it has infected one individual then it may infect more individuals then if it was from some other virus that we had this infection.He said in order to prevent this spread, people should follow Covid appropriate behaviour and also get themselves vaccinated.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/no-evidence-to-indicate-artificial-origin-of-covid-19-ex-icmr-head-scientist-101622393390235.html
30-05-2021||India||Soli Sorabjee inspired me to continue in profession: CJI Ramana||Chief Justice of India (CJI) NV Ramana on Sunday said that eminent jurist Soli Sorabjee was among the many people who inspired him to continue in the legal profession and in his demise the country had lost one of the greatest legal minds and a champion of human rights. Sorabjee, a recipient of Padma Vibhushan who twice served as Attorney General, passed away due to Covid-19 on April 30.Speaking at a virtual event organized in memory of Sorabjee, Justice Ramana recalled meeting him in 1988 to discuss a case involving the then Chief Minister of Andhra Pradesh. Sorabjee was thorough with facts and after a five-minute briefing, the two questions he asked were the ones posed by the bench the next day.“I thought I had seen a prophet in action….I must admit that he was one of those who inspired me to continue in this profession,” Justice Ramana said, describing Sorabjee as one of the greatest legal minds and champion of human rights who possessed great qualities.Justice UU Lalit of the Supreme Court described Sorabjee as a “great package” who had love for life, particularly his passion for jazz, poetry and literature. “He was the best guardian of the fortress of free speech and expression who excelled in all branches of law,” Justice Lalit said. The fact that a viral infection led to Sorabjee’s end was ironical, said Justice DY Chandrachud, who also spoke at the memorial event hosted by Sorabjee family – wife Zena, daughter Zia and sons Jehangir and Hormazd.Justice Chandrachud said, “If you are in his chamber and you had a (common) cold, you ran the risk of being thrown out and it is so ironical that it was a virus that got him in the end.” In 1998, Sorabjee asked the young Chandrachud whether he was willing to become Additional Solicitor General, which he readily accepted. The same year when the opportunity came to be elevated as a High Court judge, upon Sorabjee’ advice, Justice Chandrachud decided to accept the offer.Other eminent lawyers like Harish Salve, Gopal Subramaniam and S Ganesh who once served as juniors to Sorabjee also spoke on the occasion. Nobody missed out sharing anecdotes about Sorabjee’s court craft, wit, humour and ability to mimic judges. Salve later served as Solicitor General of India when Sorabjee was Attorney General. Common love for jazz transformed Salve from a junior to a friend, though Salve found it extremely difficult to stop addressing him as ‘sir’.Sorabjee was a role model for young lawyers as he never once spoke rudely or made an offensive remark against a judge, a fact endorsed by his eminent juniors. Summing up the myriad facets of his personality, senior advocate Arvind Datar said, “In four years, Supreme Court will complete 75 years. If ever there is a Hall of Fame for Lawyers, Sorabjee’s name will be right up at the top.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/soli-sorabjee-inspired-me-to-continue-in-profession-cji-ramana-101622390863124.html
30-05-2021||India||Maharashtra CM Uddhav Thackeray extends lockdown-like curbs in state by 15 days, pitches for Covid-free villages||Maharashtra chief minister Uddhav Thackeray on Sunday announced extension of lockdown-like curbs in the state by 15 days, saying coronavirus disease (Covid-19) cases have not gone down according to expectation. The current state-wide lockdown, which was imposed on April 22, was scheduled to end on June 1 at 7am.Also Read: Over 1 million cases, 19K deaths in 29 days in Maharashtra"We are unwillingly extending the lockdown. We are ramping up the health infrastructure. The unlocking will be done in graded manner," the chief minister said addressing the people of the state virtually.Thackeray said that some districts, where Covid-19 cases are rising at a faster pace, will see additional restrictions, and those where positivity rate is less than 10 per cent - like state capital Mumbai - will get some relaxations.Currently, people can’t step out unless they need medical attention, or are working in an essential sector, or want to buy essential commodities, and that too only between 7am and 11am. But now, in areas where Covid-19 cases are declining, shops selling essential commodities will be allowed to remain open from 7am to 2pm.Thackeray acknowledged the fact that daily cases of Covid-19 have gone down significantly in Maharashtra over the last few days but added that the number is still near the peak of the first wave. "The drop in Covid-19 cases is still not as expected," he said.He also appealed to the political parties to not pressurise the state government for unlocking certain activities, and urged people to come together and work with the government in fight against the pandemic."Each one of us need to decide to keep our village, tehsil and district free from Covid-19," the chief minister said."The recovery rate and case fatality rate (CFR) is better than that of the peak of the first wave. But the transmission rate of the strain in the second wave is rapid. The time taken for the recovery is more than that in the first wave," Thackeray added.The chief minister also said that the state government has constituted a task force of paediatric doctors as part of preparedness of the potential third wave of Covid-19.During the address, he also talked about Cyclone Tauktae, which wreaked havoc on India's western coast, leaving trail of destruction in Maharashtra and Gujarat. Thackeray said the cyclonic storm intensified the state government's challenge of dealing with the Covid-19 pandemic. He also listed the steps taken by the state government in view of the cyclonic storm."While fighting Covid-19 pandemic, we distributed 2.74 lakh metric tonnes of food grain, disbursed ₹155 crore to construction worker and ₹34.42 lakh to domestic workers," the chief minister said.It was widely expected that the state government will extend the lockdown due to the rapid rise in Covid-19 cases in about a dozen districts. State health minister Rajesh Tope too had said there was no chance of lifting the lockdown.The districts with high weekly average positivity rate include Sindhudurga, Ratnagiri, Kolhapur, Buldhana, Satara, Sangli, Osmanabad, Amravati and Beed.Maharashtra is among the six states which have more than one lakh active cases of Covid-19, according to Union health ministry. While Karnataka has the highest number of active cases, Maharashtra is at number 2.On Sunday, Maharashtra recorded 18,600 fresh cases of Covid-19. This is the lowest daily tally of infection since March 16, when the state recorded 17,864 cases of Covid-19 in 24 hours.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/thackeray-extends-maharashtra-curbs-by-15-days-pitches-for-covid-free-villages-101622386958114.html
30-05-2021||India||News updates from HT: Indian Coast Guard aids firefighting operations onboard MV X-Press Pearl and all the latest news||Here are today’s top news, analysis, and opinion. Know all about the latest news and other news updates from Hindustan Times.MV X-Press Pearl fire considerably reduced, no oil spill detected: Coast GuardThe MV X-Press Pearl has been burning for 11 days in a row off the coast of Colombo. Read more here.Monsoon onset delayed, expected to hit Kerala on June 3: IMDMonsoon is likely to hit India’s southwestern coast around June 3 instead of the regular onset date of June 1, the India Meteorological Department (IMD) said on Sunday. Read more here. Sunidhi Chauhan reveals why she is no longer a judge on Indian Idol, says she was told to praise contestantsSinger Sunidhi Chauhan is the latest celebrity to speak on the recent Indian Idol 12 controversy that began with singer Amit Kumar's visit to the show. Amit and Sunidhi have both claimed they were asked to praise contestants. Read more here. 'Earlier, teams used to plan easily against us': Shami says India pacers have forced oppositions to 'think otherwise'Mohammad Shami says India's fast bowling contingent has not only forced teams around the world to take notice, but also pushed the oppositions to think twice before preparing pitches to host the Indian team. Read more here. Amrita Rao jumps on the ‘jal’ wagon with hilarious clip after memes go viralThe clip shared by Rao on Twitter shows her holding a steel glass. As the video goes on, she offers the water with the dialogue ‘Jal lenge?’ (Would you like some water?) and then exits the frame only to come back with a funny surprise. Read more here. Watch: Why ambulance driver left van, rode cycle to get Covid patient in Assam||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/news-updates-from-ht-indian-coast-guard-aids-firefighting-operations-onboard-101622388279773.html
30-05-2021||India||Maharashtra minister praises Gadkari, says he is 'right man in wrong party'||Maharashtra minister and senior Congress leader Ashok Chavan on Sunday said the Narendra Modi government had failed to handle the COVID-19 pandemic effectively and had overseen the loss of 12.21 crore jobs.Addressing a virtual press meet on the Modi government completing two years of its second term, and seven overall, Chavan said the Centre had kept all decision-making powers in its hands but was now blaming the state governments after the COVID-19 outbreak spiralled out of control.Queried on whether he had any favourite minister in the Modi dispensation, Chavan said "good words" could be spoken about Union Minister and Nagpur MP Nitin Gadkari who despite ideological differences, maintains "dialogue with other parties"."He is the right man in the wrong party. He has a positive approach towards Maharashtra but his powers are being continuously curtailed," Chavan said, though he did not elaborate on his assertion."The price of petrol had reached ₹100 per lite. Some 12.21 core people have lost their jobs. The per capita income of Bangladesh is now higher than that of India. The policies of the Centre have devastated the country," the former Maharashtra chief minister claimed.Chavan alleged the Centre had a discriminatory attitude towards Maharashtra on all fronts, including aid and GST compensation.He also attacked the BJP over the Maratha quota issue, and asked the ruling party at the Centre to come up with a solution after the Supreme Court, on May 5, struck down a state law granting reservations in jobs and education to the community.He congratulated BJP Rajya Sabha MP Sambhaji Chhatrapati for trying to meet leaders of all parties to evolve a consensus on the Maratha quota issue.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/former-maharashtra-cm-lashes-out-at-centre-but-praises-minister-nitin-gadkari-101622387102265.html
30-05-2021||India||Telangana extends Covid-19 lockdown for 10 days till June 9||Telangana on Sunday extended Covid-19 lockdown for 10 days - from May 31 to June 9 - to keep a check on the spread of the coronavirus disease (Covid-19). The decision was taken at the cabinet meeting held by Telangana cabinet today.The state government also decided to increase the relaxation timing to 6am to 1pm, instead of 6am to 10am which is in force at present.Limited revival of economic activity is also consented and guidelines will be issued soon, said Telangana minister KTR.He further said that the cabinet has decided that students going overseas for higher education will be given vaccination on priority so they can travel safely, adding that guidelines will be issued soon with details.As per the latest health bulletin, the number of Covid-19 infection rate has come down and mortality rate is also satisfactory.Telangana had initially imposed a night curfew from 8pm to 7am on April 20 after the Covid-19 second wave led to a steep increase in the number of infection cases and deaths. It was followed by the imposition of a 20-hour lockdown on May 12. The lockdown was initially imposed for 10 days until May 22 and subsequently extended till May 30.Telangana on Saturday reported 2,982 new Covid-19 cases in the last 24 hours, taking the active caseload to 36,917, informed the state health department. The state recorded 21 Covid-19 related new deaths and 3,837 fresh recoveries.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/telangana-extends-covid-19-lockdown-for-10-days-till-june-9-101622380148051.html
30-05-2021||India||'We are doers, they are obstructors': Nadda slams opposition on Modi govt's 7th anniversary||As Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) celebrated the seventh year of its government at the Centre, party chief Jagat Prakash Nadda said India's journey of growth and fight against the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) will continue under the able leadership of Prime Minister Narendra Modi. He also lashed out at the opposition for working towards lowering the morale of the country at a time when it is facing a pandemic."The way our Prime Minister is taking India forward with determination and strength is commendable. Today, I want to say that we will leave no stone unturned to take this journey forward under your leadership," Nadda said while addressing BJP workers virtually.Also Read: Seven years on, Modi faces three challengesHe also lauded the BJP workers for carrying out Covid prevention and relief work in one lakh villages."We worked towards holding this festival at least in 100,000 place. And I am happy to announce that we have crossed this target. Our workers have completed the work under 'Seva Hi Sangathan Hai' mission in more than 100,000 villages across the country," said Nadda.He further asked the party workers to continue working like "doers", help people during the pandemic and not get bothered by "obstructors" who absolve themselves from their responsibility.Taking on opposition leaders over their statements about the vaccination drive against Covid-19, the BJP chief said that they were the ones who questioned vaccines to create doubts in the minds of people."Those making a noise about Covid-19 vaccine now, are the ones who earlier raised doubts about vaccines," he said."We are serving and they (opposition) are creating hurdles. Some political parties issued irresponsible statements on lockdown and vaccination and worked to lower the morale of the country," said Nadda.Citing the initiatives taken by the government after the outbreak of the virus, Nadda said today the country has become self-sufficient in personal protective equipment kits and sanitisers.The BJP is observing the anniversary of its government at the Centre as "Seva Diwas" and in view of the Covid-19 pandemic, the party has decided not to celebrate the day, but instead organise relief works under the campaign 'Sewa Hi Sangathan Hai'.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/we-are-doers-they-are-obstructors-nadda-slams-opposition-101622380521382.html
30-05-2021||India||BJP’s work will not go unnoticed, says JP Nadda||Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) president JP Nadda on Sunday attacked the opposition parties for creating vaccine hesitancy and politicising the pandemic but was all praise for the BJP cadre that continued to provide relief to people in need. Addressing party workers on the government’s seventh anniversary in power at the Centre, Nadda said the opposition parties went into quarantine; while his party colleagues carried out relief work amid the Coronavirus pandemic. The opposition leaders mocked the vaccines developed indigenously and dubbed them as BJP vaccines, Nadda said, accusing them of creating doubts about the efficacy of the vaccines. Targeting the Opposition parties, Nadda said those making a noise about Covid-19 vaccines now are the ones who earlier raised doubts about the jabs. “The opposition parties tried to break the morale. They said the vaccines are being given without trials and peoples’ lives are being put to risk. …It is a BJP vaccine. All kinds of questions and doubts were being raised and the same people are now shouting for vaccines today,” Nadda said. Even though the BJP has decided not to hold any public events to mark the anniversary, the BJP chief said all party MPs, ministers and MLAs will serve people in at least two villages following Covid-19 protocols and lockdown guidelines to mark the occasion. Nadda said party workers in one lakh villages and hamlets are serving the needy to mark the occasion. “BJP workers are mature and work with sensitivity. They should continue working with sadhana (dedication). India is the only country where apart from the government; society too played a role in combating the pandemic. The BJP is the only party that took up work for so long and on such a large-scale and created a record for being the only party that work and offered relief…This will never go unregistered,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/bjps-work-will-not-go-unnoticed-says-jp-nadda-101622379940751.html
30-05-2021||India||Can manufacture, supply 90-100 million Covishield doses in June: SII to govt||The Serum Institute of India (SII) has said it will be able to manufacture and supply 90 to 100 million doses of Covishield, the vaccine against the coronavirus disease (Covid-19), next month, news agency PTI reported on Sunday citing a letter by a senior company official.“We are pleased to inform that in the month of June we will be able to manufacture and supply nine to 10 crore doses of our Covishield vaccine to the country as compared to our production capacity of 6.5 crore doses in May," Prakash Kumar Singh, the director of government and regulatory affairs at SII, said in the letter to Union home minister Amit Shah, according to PTI.Also read | ‘Daily cases were at an all-time low’: Poonawalla defends India’s vaccine exportSingh’s letter comes as several states have complained about the shortage of the anti-coronavirus disease jabs and said that they have been forced to shut down over the last few days due to a country-wide shortage. Several states, including Punjab, Kerala, Maharashtra, Punjab, Andhra Pradesh, Rajasthan, Uttarakhand and Karnataka, among others, have floated global tenders for Covid-19 vaccines.Also read | Serum Institute of India begins production of Covovax vaccineAccording to PTI, SII said its employees have been working round the clock in spite of various challenges because of the coronavirus pandemic. "Serum Institute of India has always been sincerely concerned about the protection of the citizens of our country and world at large from Covid-19. Under the leadership of our CEO, Adar C Poonawalla, our team have been working relentlessly shoulder to shoulder with our government to fight the Covid-19 pandemic," he said in the letter."We assure you that with the support of the Government of India and under your kind guidance, we are trying our best by utilising all of our resources to increase our production capacity of Covishield in the coming month also."Also read | India's 'terrible' Covid-19 surge severely impacted global vaccine supply: CovaxThe Pune-based company informed the Centre earlier in May that the production of Covishield would be ramped up to 65 million in June, 70 million in July and 100 million each in August and September.India is currently using SII’s Covishield and Covaxin of Bharat Biotech in its immunisation programme. The Russian-made Sputnik V is the third vaccine to get approval from the Drug Controller General of India (DCGI) for emergency use and is being used in a few private hospitals.According to the Union ministry of health and family welfare on Sunday, 212 million vaccine doses have been administered across the county since the Centre’s vaccination drive on began on January 16 and more than 18.3 million people in age group of 18-44 years have been given the jab in ongoing third phase so far.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/can-manufacture-supply-90-100-million-covishield-doses-in-june-sii-to-govt-101622378300026.html
30-05-2021||India||Closure of centrally protected monuments extended till June 15 amid Covid surge||All centrally protected monuments, which were closed in May due to the rise in daily cases of the coronavirus disease (Covid-19), will remain closed till June 15, or until further orders, the Union ministry of culture announced in a notification on Sunday."Due to present COVID 19 pandemic situation all centrally protected monuments and museums shall continue to remain closed till 15th June 2021 or until further orders," the ministry said in the notification posted on its official Twitter handle, which sas retweeted by Archaeological Survey of India (ASI).Due to present COVID 19 pandemic situation all centrally protected monuments and museums shall continue to remain closed till 15th June 2021 or until further orders. https://t.co/c6ljYsfQ7pOn April 15, the ASI had ordered closure of all the centrally protected monuments till May 15, which was further extended till May 31.In July last year, the culture ministry gave its approval for the reopening of monuments, places of worship, museums, heritage sites etc., as the country started exiting the Covid-19 induced lockdown. The monuments were closed in late March, when the first national lockdown was announced by Prime Minister Narendra Modi.India on Sunday recorded 165,553 fresh cases of coronavirus disease, taking the country's cumulative tally past 27.8 million, according to the Union health ministry. The country also saw 3,460 deaths in the last 24 hours. A total of 325,972 people have died due to the coronavirus disease, data updated at 8am showed. The country's death toll has been below 4,000 for the fourth straight day.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/closure-of-centrally-protected-monuments-extended-till-june-15-amid-covid-surge-101622375492683.html
30-05-2021||India||Ramdev again questions Covid-19 vaccines, says he’s protected by yoga & Ayurveda||Yoga guru Swami Ramdev has again questioned the efficacy of Covid-19 vaccines while claiming that the fatalities caused by Covid-19 showed that allopathy was not 100% effective. He also alleged the presence of a campaign against ancient Indian science of Ayurveda. The Yoga guru who has been in a running feud with the Indian Medical Association (IMA) also claimed that he didn’t opt for vaccination since he has been enjoying the dual protection of yoga and Ayurveda for several years now.“For decades, I have been practicing yoga-Ayurveda doses so I didn’t feel the need to get vaccinated. Over 100 crore people of India as well as in foreign countries are in reach of these ancient therapies. In the coming time, Ayurveda will be globally accepted. A section of society is deliberately ignoring or deeming it inferior in comparison to allopathy,” said Swami Ramdev.Ram Dev had earlier raised 25 questions on the efficacy of modern medicine and the IMA Uttarakhand chapter threatened him with a ₹1000 crore defamation case and Delhi Medical Association filed a police complaint against the yoga guru. It all started a couple of weeks ago with a video, where Ramdev was seen calling allopathy a ‘stupid science’ and alleging that thousands of doctors had died despite taking the vaccine to prevent Covid-19 infection. He later retracted those comments following the IMA and Union health minister’s objections.However, Swami Ramdev has continued to question modern medicine. On Sunday he said Ayurvdic surgeons should also get permission to perform surgeries as it was a “skill” and “not a science”.“Yoga, Ayurveda ingredients, Coronil and age-old Indian usage of herbs and dietary habits have been saving many lives. Allopathy treatment on the other side has been relying on antibiotics and steroids, harmful effects of which are now visible. Yoga and Ayurveda can cure all ailments and Patanjali Yogpeeth is ready to give proof in this regard. Ayurveda needs to be given due respect and recognition by modern science,” Swami Ramdev said.He however, qualified his stance by claiming he respected allopathy for its contributions, particularly in case of emergency medical treatments but it was not reciprocated by the allopathic branch of medicine.IMA Uttarakhand general secretary Dr Ajay Khanna said the association was willing to reply to Ramdev’s questions and claims but it should be done face to face in an open panel discussion in presence of media. He added that Ramdev’s statements were only promoting vaccine hesitancy.“The way Ramdev is slamming vaccination is quite dangerous as it will add to vaccination hesitancy in the country. World over vaccination drives are being held and here we are debating and slamming it. Ramdev has to realise the consequences his statements will have on the battle against Covid and vaccination drive. We have to end vaccination hesitancy, not add to it,” he said.Dr Sanjay Shah, vice president Uttarakhand chapter of Association of Physicians of India agreed that Ramdev's statements will only promote vaccine hesitancy. "Globallyy, billions of people have been vaccinated, modern science is based on rational scientific medicine and it's unfair to create undue comparisons between Ayurveda and modern science. Such statements will create vaccine hesitancy and can have dangerous consequences in the coming time " Shah said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/ramdev-again-questions-covid-19-vaccines-says-he-s-protected-by-yoga-ayurveda-101622376819966.html
30-05-2021||India||Only 6 states left with over 100k active Covid-19 cases, says Centre||The Centre on Sunday pointed to an improving Covid-19 situation in the country, as the Ministry of Information and Broadcasting (I&B) shared a list and a map of the “only six states” with more than 100,000 active cases of the viral disease.Also Read | Covid-19 curbs to be relaxed in 55 UP districts from June 1, weekend curfew to continue“Only six states with more than one lakh active Covid-19 cases (As on 30th May, 2021 till 8AM),” India Fights Corona, the official I&B ministry handle on Covid-19 updates, tweeted. The six states are Karnataka (350,087 active cases), Tamil Nadu (310,157), Maharashtra (279,347), Kerala (233,425), Andhra Pradesh (173,622) and West Bengal (102,398).”#IndiaFightsCorona:📍Only 6 States with 1 Lakh+ #ActiveCases (As on 30th May, 2021 till 08:00 AM)☑️Follow #COVIDAppropriateBehaviour to #StaySafe#Unite2FightCorona pic.twitter.com/Wun5FScaR5Together, the six states have 1,449,036 or 68.52% of the total active cases of the disease across the country. As of Sunday morning, India’s tally of active Covid-19 cases stood at 2,114,508, according to the Union ministry of health and family welfare’s (MoHFW) dashboard. This is a decline of 114,216 infections from the previous 24-hour Covid-19 bulletin. Active cases contribute 7.58% of India’s infection tally of 27,894,800.Also Read | Centre issues Covid-19 advisory to private TV channels, asks them to spread awarenessIndividually, Karnataka’s Covid-19 tally stands at 2,567,449, as per a health department bulletin on May 29, while Tamil Nadu’s is at 2,039,716. Maharashtra’s tally, at 5,713,215, is the highest in the country while the corresponding figures for Kerala are at 2,464,360. Andhra Pradesh and West Bengal, meanwhile, have reported 1,671,742 and 1,354,956 cases respectively.Also Read | Bikaner’s oxygen mitra model gets PM Narendra Modi’s praiseAfter a devastating second wave which lasted throughout the month of April and most of May, the country’s daily cases have fallen below the 200,000-mark, but are still above 100,000. In the last 24 hours, there were 165,553 more positive cases, along with 276,309 discharges and 3,460 related deaths, as per the health ministry’s latest data on Sunday. This was India’s lowest single-day tally in 46 days.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/only-6-states-left-with-over-100k-active-covid-19-cases-says-centre-101622375335074.html
30-05-2021||India||We are serving, they are creating hurdles: JP Nadda's jab at opposition||Bharatiya Janata Party’s national president JP Nadda on Sunday took a swipe at opposition parties and said they tried to destroy India’s morale by calling its indigenous vaccines against the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) as "Modi's vaccine".“Today, those who are asking for the Covid vaccine are the same people who questioned the Prime Minister when he was inspiring industrialists to make the jabs… The opposition parties did everything to break the country’s morale,” Nadda said while addressing BJP workers as the NDA government marked the seventh anniversary of taking charge at the Centre.“What did they say? They said that the third phase trial hasn’t been done and if it will be administered to people their lives will be in danger. It was called the BJP’s vaccine and Modi’s vaccine. People who raised various questions at that time are shouting vaccine-vaccine today,” he said.आज जो कोविड वैक्सीन पर हल्ला कर रहे हैं, ये वही लोग हैं, जिन्होंने वैक्सीन पर रिसर्च के वक्त भारत के आत्मविश्वास को तोड़ने काम किया।इसे भाजपा की वैक्सीन कहते थे।उस समय तरह-तरह के प्रश्न खड़े करने वाले लोग आज वैक्सीन-वैक्सीन चिल्ला रहे हैं।#7YearsOfSeva pic.twitter.com/eeS6pyvSs6Nadda was reacting to the opposition parties, mainly Congress, which have been critical of the government's vaccination policy and slow pace of inoculation and raised questions about the shortage of vaccines against Covid-19 time and again.The senior BJP leader also attacked the Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) without naming it for creating "hindrances" in Delhi.“Friends, some people are seekers and some create hurdles. The jobs of seekers is to meditate and we know will always face these obstructors but we will have to stay on our path. There are people who will always put forward charges and counter-charges. Delhi, too, is affected by such people," Nadda said in a video message.कुछ लोग साधक होते हैं और कुछ लोग बाधक होते हैं।साधक का काम है साधना करना और हमें पता है कि बाधा पहुंचाने वाले भी हमेशा मिलेंगे, लेकिन हमें अपने रास्ते से डिगना नहीं है। #7YearsOfSeva pic.twitter.com/JMxE1PAqLWThe BJP president also claimed that indigenous coronavirus vaccine manufacturing firm, Bharat Biotech, will be producing 100 million vaccines per month by October this year. “From two companies to now 13 companies have been permitted to produce Covid-19 vaccines. Soon 19 companies will do the same. Bharat Biotech, which has been manufacturing 1.3 crore vaccines a month, will start manufacturing 10 crore vaccines per month by October,” he said.Also read | Covid-19: Rahul slams PM Modi over inoculation drive, warns of more wavesAddressing media on the completion of seven years of BJP-led central government, Nadda said million of party workers in 100,000 villages are serving the needy and trying to solve their problem. He said BJP workers are providing relief material, ration kits and medicines along with other aids for the elderly and people who tested positive for Covid-19."All our MPs, ministers and all MLAs have decided that even during the pandemic, following all the protocols in the lockdown, they will go to at least two villages or settlements and participate do public service works," he added.The BJP is observing the seven-year anniversary of its government at the Centre as "Seva Diwas” due to the coronavirus pandemic. The party decided not to celebrate the day and instead organise relief works across the country.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/we-are-serving-they-are-creating-hurdles-jp-nadda-lashes-out-at-opposition-101622373702946.html
30-05-2021||India||News updates from HT at 5pm: Bihar CM announces scheme for children who lost parents to Covid-19 and all the latest news||Here are today’s top news, analysis and opinion at 5 PM. Know all about the latest news and other news updates from Hindustan Times.Nitish Kumar announces scheme for children who lost parents to Covid-19The Bihar government will financially support children, who have lost their parents to the coronavirus disease (Covid-19), under the child assistance programme, chief minister Nitish Kumar announced on Sunday. “Children, both of whose parents have died, and at least one has died from corona, will be given ₹1500 per month by the state government till the age of 18 under the 'Children's Assistance Scheme’,” Kumar tweeted in Hindi. Read moreCentre issues Covid-19 advisory to private TV channels, asks them to spread awarenessThe Centre on Sunday issued an advisory for private television channel, asking them to help the government spread awareness about the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) pandemic by displaying four national level helpline numbers. The government said it wants to create awareness about three things - Covid treatment protocol, Covid-appropriate behaviour and vaccination. Read more‘Egregious’: Sikh immigrant forced to shave beard in US prison, advocacy groups demand probeSeveral legal advocacy groups have filed a complaint with the civil rights division of the US department of justice after a Sikh immigrant was forced to shave his beard in an Arizona detention facility. Surjit Singh, a 64-year-old Indian immigrant, was sentenced to five years in prison for manslaughter after a fatal vehicle accident in Yuma, Arizona. Read moreSunil Gavaskar explains 'flip side' of New Zealand playing two Tests before WTC final against IndiaFormer India captain Sunil Gavaskar has countered the discussion that playing two Tests against England before the World Test Championship final may help New Zealand as they will be more acclimatised to the conditions, while India would be entering the contest without having played any match since the suspension of Indian Premier League. Read moreArjun Kapoor says 'a fake wall' was built between audience and industry; Sandeep Aur Pinky Faraar broke itArjun Kapoor feels that the success of Sandeep Aur Pinky Faraar on OTT is proof of the existence of a real audience that appreciates good films and performances. The actor’s portrayal of suspended police officer Satinder Dahiya aka Pinky is being hailed by many as his career-best. Read moreToddler greets horses with little boops, melts netizens’ heartsThe bond between children and animals are always special and delightful and so are the videos of their adorable interaction. Case in point, this clip of a toddler giving kisses to some horses in a stable. The whole interaction may put a smile on your face. Read more||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/news-updates-from-hindustan-times-at-5-pm-bihar-cm-announces-scheme-for-children-who-lost-parents-to-covid-19-and-all-the-latest-news-101622370205377.html
30-05-2021||India||Modernisation of Indian Army well on course: Army Chief Gen MM Naravane||The modernisation of the Indian Army is well on course, Army Chief Gen MM Naravane has said, dismissing apprehensions that the need for devoting more resources to guard the Line of Actual Control in the face of the prolonged standoff with China in eastern Ladakh may starve the force of funds for buying new weapons and platforms.Emphasising his point, Gen Naravane said that 59 contracts worth ₹21,000 crore have been concluded since last fiscal while a number of other capital acquisition proposals are in the pipeline.In an exclusive interview to PTI, he said the modernisation drive in the Army has been going on without facing any difficulty and that required resources are being provided by the government."The modernisation drive of Indian Army is well on course. Recently 15 contracts worth more than ₹16,000 crore have been concluded under normal schemes of procurement and 44 contracts worth ₹5,000 crore have been concluded in 2020-21 under emergency procurements," Gen Naravane said."A number of capital acquisition proposals too are underway concurrently," the Chief of Army Staff said.He was replying to a question on whether the much-needed modernisation of the Army has been impacted due to the need for allocation of greater resources to keep a large number of troops for guarding the LAC in eastern Ladakh and elsewhere in the wake of the standoff since last one year."We are not facing any difficulty," he said, referring to the modernisation drive.In February, the government allocated ₹ ₹4.78 lakh crore for the defence budget for 2021-22. Out of the total allocation, ₹1,35,060 crore was set aside for capital expenditure that includes purchasing new weapons, aircraft, warships and other military hardware.The capital outlay for 2021-22 is an increase of 18.75 percent compared to last year's allocation of ₹1,13,734 crore.In the last few years, military experts have been pitching for rapid modernisation of the Indian armed forces to effectively deal with China's increasing assertiveness.It has been more than a year since the military standoff between the two sides erupted in eastern Ladakh on May 5 during which there were fatalities on both sides for the first time in 45 years.They have made limited progress in achieving disengagement at the Pangong lake area while negotiations for similar steps at other points remained deadlocked.Gen Naravane said that the Indian Army is currently holding onto all important areas in the high-altitude region and it has adequate personnel in the form of "reserves" to react to any contingencies.Each side currently has around 50,000 to 60,000 troops along the LAC in the sensitive sector.The ties between the two countries came under severe strain after the deadly clashes at the Galwan valley following which both sides rushed in thousands of additional troops as well as battle tanks and other large weapons to the region.Nine months after the military standoff at multiple friction points, both sides completed the withdrawal of troops and weapons from the North and South banks of the Pangong lake in February as part of an agreement reached following a series of military and diplomatic talks.The two sides have held 11 rounds of military talks to ensure disengagement and de-escalation at the friction points. Both the militaries are now engaged in talks to extend the disengagement process to the remaining friction points.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/modernisation-of-indian-army-well-on-course-army-chief-gen-mm-naravane-101622372942153.html
30-05-2021||India||Covid-19 curbs to be relaxed in 55 UP districts from June 1, weekend curfew to continue||The Uttar Pradesh government on Sunday announced some relaxation in coronavirus disease (Covid-19) curbs in the state from June 1. An order by the state government said that economic activities will be allowed in zones (or districts) with less than 600 active cases from Tuesday.The markets in these 55 districts can open from 7am to 7pm from Monday to Friday, according to the order signed by the chief secretary, which further said that there will be no relaxation in weekend curfew.It said that no relaxation has been given in 20 districts, including state capital Lucknow, which continues to report a spike in the number of Covid-19 cases. The other districts where restrictions will continue are: Meerut, Saharanpur, Varanasi, Ghaziabad, Gorakhpur, Muzaffarnagar, Bareilly, Gautam Buddh Nagar, Bulandshahr, Jhansi, Prayagraj, Lakhimpur Kheri, Sonbhadra, Jaunpur, Bagpat, Moradabad, Ghazipur, Bijnore and Deoria.The 'corona curfew' was imposed in the state on April 30 and has since been extended a number of times. On May 22, the state government said that restrictions will continue till May 31 to check the spread of Covid-19. Like many other states, essential services, including medical, groceries, industries, e-commerce will continue to function.The state government had said last week that Uttar Pradesh has seen a sharp decline in the number of active cases of Covid-19 in less than one month. From a peak of 3,10,783 on April 30, the number of active cases came down to 62,271 on Tuesday, the state government data showed.It also said that recovery rate in India's most populous state has surpassed 95 per cent.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/relaxation-in-covid-19-curbs-in-up-from-june-1-weekend-curfew-to-continue-101622372376265.html
30-05-2021||India||Central Delhi roads will need to expand due to Central Vista project: Report||Lutyens’ Delhi’s key roads will need to be upgraded to 4-8 lanes by 2031 to accommodate the growth in traffic, both routine and on account of the Central Vista project, according to a traffic impact analysis.Traffic Impact Assessment Report for the Central Vista project prepared by TATA Consultancy Engineers Limited (TCE) states that Shershah road and Ashoka road will need to be upgraded to eight lanes by the start of 2026. It also recommends restriction on entry of visitor’s vehicle, without authorized pass, on Dr Rajendra Prasad and Maulana Azad roads during office hours owing to the “significant overall impact on road network due to Central Vista development/redevelopment in the horizon year 2026.”“Ashoka road & Shershah road will require immediate upgrade to 8 lanes... to cater [to the] future traffic demand and provide desired LOS C in 2026. Akbar road, Rafi Marg & Janpath will [be] required to be upgraded to 6 lanes... in [the] year 2026. Akbar road will be required to upgrade to 8 lanes... in [the] year 2039. Dr Rajendra Prasad road will require 4 lanes... in [the] year 2031,” the report says.The Central Vista project includes construction of a new Parliament, Prime Minister and vice-president’s residences, a central secretariat and several other buildings. Once complete, the government employee population in the area is expected to increase by 10-15% from 57,000 currently. The Central Public Works Department recently said the new buildings will have parking for at least 16,000 cars and the new service roads will ensure smooth flow of traffic on main roads.The traffic impact assessment report also notes that India Gate road, Motilal Nehru road, Red Cross road, Raisina road and Mansingh road will have no impact due to the project.The forecasted traffic on the road network consists of two main components, the first is routine traffic growth projected to grow annually at 3% between 2020 and 2025, 2.5% between 2025 and 2030 and 2% thereafter, the report says. The second component is of additional traffic generated due to the development of common secretariat & parliament house and employee traffic.“The pedestrian count survey has shown that approximately 22,500 people visit C- Hexagon road & Rajpath show around 35,000 on weekend[s]. The weekday traffic is supposed to be lower than the weekend demand. The tourist traffic is estimated at 25,000 on weekday[s] and 50,000 people on the weekend. To assess the impact on the overall traffic it is assumed that around 10% tourists will visit the CV during the peak hour observed on the roads during office hours,” the report notes.“Based on the above assumptions it is expected that approximately 2,500 tourists will visit the Central Vista Avenue. The total people approaching the site by road will be 30% of the total tourists. It is also important to note that the tourists will travel in groups and hence the number of vehicles on the road will not increase proportionately. We have assumed that the tourists travel in a group of 2.5. Hence the total number of resulting cars on the road will be approximately 300,” it added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/central-delhi-roads-will-need-to-expand-due-to-central-vista-project-report-101622369919938.html
30-05-2021||India||Centre issues Covid-19 advisory to private TV channels, asks them to spread awareness||The Centre on Sunday issued an advisory for private television channel, asking them to help the government spread awareness about the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) pandemic by displaying four national level helpline numbers. The government said it wants to create awareness about three things - Covid treatment protocol, Covid-appropriate behaviour and vaccination.In the advisory, the central government noted that though the number of daily Covid-19 cases are witnessing a downward trend, it is still high.#IndiaFightsCorona @MIB_India has issued a #COVID19 advisory to all the private TV channels to promote awareness of the following four national level helpline nos. 1075 : @MoHFW_INDIA 1098 : @MinistryWCD 14567 : @MSJEGOI08046110007 : NIMHANS for psychological support pic.twitter.com/VYrhbJkD0e"Over the last several months, the government has created awareness through various instrumentalities and media platforms, including print, TV, radio, social media, etc for creating awareness. National helpline numbers for the benefit of the citizens were also created and propagated by the government," the government advisory said."In order to further this cause, the private TV channels are advised to promote awareness of the following four national level helpline numbers by way of a ticker or such appropriate ways as they may consider at periodical intervals, especially during prime time," it further added.The four helpline numbers given by the government are: 1075 (National Helpline no. of Ministry of Health and Family Welfare), 1098 (Child Helpline No. of the Ministry of Women and Child Development), (14567 Senior Citizens Helpline of the Ministry of Social Justice and Empowerment) and 08046110007 (Helpline No. of NIMHANS for psychological support).In March, Prime Minister Narendra Modi held an interaction with the electronic media where he asked television channels to spread scientific reports, involve informed people in their discussions and counter the spread of misinformation and highlight the importance of social distancing in the wake of the coronavirus outbreak.“Even greater caution, zero carelessness. Urged electronic media to counter misinformation related to COVID-19, which is creating panic. Also urged them to take relevant precautions in their own organisations especially when their team members do on ground reporting,” he said in a tweet posted after the meeting.He thanked the media for understanding the gravity of the pandemic threat and appreciated the role played by the channels in spreading awareness.Stopping the spread of misinformation around Covid-19 and debunking the myths around it have been the priorities of the central government. It fights these with through the Twitter handle @PIBFactCheck.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/covid19-coverage-centre-issues-advisories-for-private-tv-channels-101622369375502.html
30-05-2021||India||SIT sends notice to Kamal Nath over comments on 2019 honey trap case||The Special Investigation Team (SIT) of Madhya Pradesh Police on Sunday issued a notice to former chief minister Kamal Nath over his statement on the honey-trap case, news agency AO reported. The SIT has also demanded that Nath produces to pen drive that he mentioned during an online press meet on May 21, ANI further reported.Nath's remarks about the 2019 scandal set off a political storm in Madhya Pradesh with the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) accusing him of impropriety.The honey trap scandal involves blackmailing of some politicians and bureaucrats and politicians in Madhya Pradesh by a gang of five women and a man. The gang members used sex tapes shot without the politicians' and bureaucrats' knowledge.The names of the politicians ensnared in the case have not been made public to date.Nath made the remark when some Congress MLAs raised the issue of FIR against former forest minister and Congress MLA Umang Singhar in a case of suicide of a 40-year-old woman. The Congress leaders accused the BJP-led government in the state of doing dirty politics. Nath said he still had a pen drive of the honey trap scandal but that he believed in doing decent politics.The BJP lashed out at the former chief minister with its state president VD Sharma saying if Nath had proof (when he was the chief minister) against any politician or officer, why did he not take any action."Many people have the pen-drive of honeytrap case, many media people also have it. It was first on pen-drive, the matter went to court much later," said Kamal Nath, responding to the BJP's charges.The 74-year-old politician has been attacking the Madhya Pradesh government over handling of the coronavirus disease (Covid-19). On Friday, Nath accused the government of hiding the real Covid-19 death figures in the state."I believe that 80 per cent of these bodies were of coronavirus victims, while the state government has put the death toll in thousands even now," the former CM said.As per the state government's bulletin issued on Friday, the Covid-19 fatality count was 7,891.In March 2020, Nath resigned as the state chief minister after several Congress MLAs quit the party and joined the BJP, which then came to power.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/sit-sends-notice-to-kamal-nath-over-comments-on-2019-honey-trap-case-101622368443747.html
30-05-2021||India||Relatives throw Covid patient's body into river in UP, booked after video goes viral||Authorities in Uttar Pradesh’s Balrampur district have booked a relative of a patient of the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) who dumped his body in a river after he died earlier this week, a senior medical officer said on Sunday. They initiated an investigation after a video of the body being thrown in the river surfaced.Chief medical officer (CMO) Dr Vijay Bahadur Singh said after the video went viral they found in their probe that Premnath Mishra, a resident of Sidharthnagar, was admitted to a hospital on May 25 and died on May 28. “The body was handed over to his relatives following all Covid protocols and his relatives took it at the crematorium. Prima facie, according to the video, it seems that the body was thrown into the river by his relatives,” Singh said in a video tweeted by Balrampur Police.#Balrampur- पीपीई किट पहने दो युवकों द्वारा राप्ती नदी पुल से नदी में शव फेंकते वायरल वीडियो के सम्बंध में सीएमओ डॉ वीबी सिंह की बाईट @Uppolice @AdgGkr @dgpup @AwasthiAwanishK @CMOfficeUP @InfoDeptUP @myogiadityanath @bstvlive @IndiaToday @News18UP @htTweets @hemantkutiyal pic.twitter.com/ZXGyBnAstmSingh added that a case has been registered and action is being taken against the people seen in the video, which has been shared widely on social media. In the now viral video, shot by passers by in a car, shows two men with the body in pouring rain. The men, one of them in a PPE suit, are seen lifting the body on to the edge of the bridge over River Rapti in the 45-second clip.Also read | Water police keep vigil to prevent dumping of bodies in riversAccording to Hindustan, HT’s sister publication, the case has been registered against Sanjay Shukla from Mankaura Kashiram and another person under the Pandemic Act and Disaster Management Act late on Saturday. Hindustan reported citing Dr AP Mishra, the nodal officer of the hospital where Mishra was admitted, that Shukla took the body on Saturday afternoon. Dr Mishra said Shukla asked for an ambulance to carry the body up to the crematorium near Rapti River, according to Hindustan.Also read | ‘Only Centre’s responsibility': Rahul Gandhi on bodies of Covid victims in GangaEarlier this month, hundreds of bodies washed up on the banks of the Ganga and thousands of other bodies were also found buried in shallow graves on the sandbanks of in parts of Bihar and Uttar Pradesh. Many of these bodies were suspected to be of people who had died of Covid-19, and whose family members didn’t have the money to cremate them. Photos and videos of these shallow graves went viral on social media and made international headlines.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/relatives-throw-covid-patient-s-body-into-river-in-up-video-goes-viral-101622366392255.html
30-05-2021||India||Shiv Sena claims BJP’s social media ‘toolkit’ backfired after LS poll wins||Shiv Sena parliamentarian Sanjay Raut on Sunday alleged that the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) government led by Prime Minister Narendra Modi was seeking to censure the social media it had once used as its ‘toolkit’ to win two general elections and to spread misinformation. Writing in his weekly column ‘Rokthok’ in Shiv Sena’s mouthpiece Saamana, Raut also said Centre’s stance against social media companies came after Congress effectively launched its own toolkit to expose the NDA government’s alleged mishandling of the Covid-19 pandemic.“The social media is an effective medium to run a campaign or tarnish someone’s name. The BJP has been foremost in misusing this medium. They used it for [running] a smear campaign against Manmohan Singh, Sonia Gandhi and Rahul Gandhi. The same toolkit used by the BJP against their opponents has backfired and all attempts are made to ban the social media networks,” Raut wrote.The Central government has asked the social media giants such as Twitter, Facebook and WhatsApp to put in place a new mechanism to regulate content and appoint officers liable for compliance under Information Technology (Intermediary Guidelines and Digital Media Ethics Code) Rules, 2021. It also asks them to adopt features such as traceability of messages and voluntary user verification for the purpose of preventing social media abuse. Google, Facebook and WhatsApp have shared the details as mandated under the new guidelines for intermediaries.Raut alleged that any censure on social media would be akin to the 1975-emergency declared by former Prime Minister Indira Gandhi, which curbed all personal liberty.Raut further alleged that the government’s irritation with social media followed Congress party using a Toolkit to attack the government over its handling of the Covid-19 pandemic in social media. “Here the twitter was effectively used to show the dead bodies floating in the rivers, the vaccination fiasco and others. The BJP has realised that citizens are no longer responding to their misleading and false campaigns and hence wants to rein in the social media networks,” said Raut.He added that this was aptly demonstrated as despite misleading campaigns against the farmers like linking them to Khalistani terrorists or foreign funding, the struggle was still going strong.Raut finally said that twitter had once virtually become the voice of Modi and his government. However, after it took strong actions like permanently suspending actor Kangana Ranaut’s account, there has been resentment in the Modi government about social media networks and plans were afoot to ban them.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/shiv-sena-claims-bjp-s-social-media-toolkit-backfired-after-ls-poll-wins-101622367221084.html
30-05-2021||India||Monsoon likely to arrive in Kerala on May 31, says IMD; heavy rainfall predicted in Karnataka from June 1||The India Meteorological Department (IMD) said on Sunday that the southwest monsoon will most probably hit Kerala on Monday. The conditions will become favourable for onset of the monsoon over southern tip of Kerala on May 31, the IMD's said in its forecast.The date has advanced by a day due to Cyclone Yaas, which started brewing in the Bay of Bengal and lashed India's east coast, the IMD said earlier. The cyclonic storm helped pull the monsoon flow over Arabian sea, it added."Southwest monsoon has further advanced into some more parts of Maldives-Comorin area, southwest and eastcentral Bay of Bengal, most parts of Southeast Bay of Bengal and some parts of westcentral Bay of Bengal," the IMD said in its May 27 forecast.The usual date of the monsoon's arrival in Kerala is June 1. It marks the commencement of four-month rainfall season from June to September.The details of zone wise distribution of rain will be released by the weather department on May 31. Meanwhile, the department forecast "scattered to fairly widespread rain/thunderstorm" likely over Karnataka, Kerala and Mahe and "isolated to scattered rain/thunderstorm" over remaining parts of south peninsular India during next 4-5 days."Isolated heavy rainfall likely over Kerala & Mahe during next 5 days; Coastal Karnataka on 01st-03rd June and South Interior Karnataka on 02nd & 03rd June," the IMD said on Twitter.The IMD said last month that India was expected to get average monsoon rains this year, raising expectations of higher farm output, which is central to the country's economy.Nearly half of India's farmland depends on annual June-September rains to grow crops such as rice, corn, cane, cotton and soybeans.The IMD had announced the monsoon's arrival in Andaman and Nicobar Islands on May 21.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/monsoon-likely-to-arrive-in-kerala-on-may-31-says-imd-101622366991176.html
30-05-2021||India||Next wave can't be predicted, says WHO regional director on India Covid situation||As the Covid-19 graph of India is plateauing, this is a time to be more cautious and get vaccinated at the first available opportunity, regional director of World Health Organization, South-East Asia, Dr Poonam Khetrapal Singh said. The next surge — a possible third wave of the pandemic — can not be predicted but can be prevented and India must work towards that, Dr Singh said. The situation continues to be of concern and challenge, she said, though the number of daily infections in India is declining steadily.This surge has put an immense burden on already overwhelmed health services. We're now witnessing a plateau & even a decline in cases in some parts of India. Situation continues to be of concern & challenge: Dr Poonam Khetrapal Singh, Regional Director, WHO South-East Asia pic.twitter.com/O3iAJvBZ0e"This surge has put an immense burden on already overwhelmed health services. We are now witnessing a plateau and even a decline in cases in some parts of India. The situation continues to be of concern and challenge," she said."Lesson learned from this surge is at no cost can we let our guards down. We must take the Covid-19 vaccine at the first available opportunity. While we can't predict the next surge but we can prevent it, which we must," she added.From the peak of May when daily cases rose above 4 lakh, India's daily rise has now dropped below 2 lakh. On Sunday, 1.65 lakh new Covid-19 cases were recorded — the lowest in 46 days. The positivity rate too has remained below the 10 per cent-mark for the sixth consecutive day.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/next-wave-can-t-be-predicted-says-who-regional-director-on-india-covid-situation-101622365369937.html
30-05-2021||India||Nearly 12 crore doses of Covid vaccine to be available in June: Health Ministry||Nearly 12 crore doses of coronavirus vaccine will be available in June, the Health Ministry said on Sunday.In May, 7,94 crore doses were available for vaccination.In a statement, the ministry said the allocation of supplies to states and union territories is decided on the consumption pattern, population and vaccine wastage."Visibility for availability of vaccines for the entire month of June 2021 has been provided well in advance to States/UTs...," it said."For the month of June, 6.09 crore (6,09,60,000) doses of COVID vaccines will be supplied to the States and UTs for vaccination of priority group of Health Care Workers (HCWs), Front-Line Workers (FLWs) and person aged 45 years and above as free supply from Government of India," the ministry said."In addition, more than 5.86 crore (5,86,10,000) doses will be available for direct procurement by the state/UTs and Private Hospitals. Therefore, in June 2021 close to 12 crore (11,95,70,000) doses will be available for the national COVID vaccination programme," it said.The ministry said the delivery schedule for this allocation will be shared with states in advance."States have been requested to direct the concerned officials to ensure rational and judicious utilization of allocated doses and minimize the vaccine wastage. The basic objective behind informing the States/UTs in advance of the quantum of free vaccine doses to be made available from Centre for 15/30 days and the total vaccine doses which are available for direct procurement by States/UTs is to ensure better planning and delivery of vaccine by States/UTs," it said.For the month of May, 4,03,49,830 vaccine doses have been made available by the Union Government to states.In addition, 3,90,55,370 doses were available for direct procurement by the states as well as private hospitals in May."Therefore, in May 2021 a total number of 7,94,05,200 doses were available for the national Covid vaccination programme," the ministry said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/nearly-12-crore-doses-of-covid-vaccine-to-be-available-in-june-health-ministry-101622364357743.html
30-05-2021||India||5.22% transgender persons vaccinated till now; misinformation, lack of digital knowledge impeding inoculation: Activists||With just 25,468 (5.22 per cent) transgender persons vaccinated against Covid-19 in India till now, activists said misinformation, lack of documents and digital divide have added to their woes in getting inoculated.According to the 2011 census, there are 4.87 lakh people belonging to the transgender community in India.A total of 8,80,47,053 men and 7,67,64,479 women have been vaccinated, while just 25,468 people in the 'other' category have been inoculated, the CoWIN portal showed.The activists said misinformation, lack of digital knowledge and no government documents are the main reasons behind hesitancy of the community members in getting vaccinated.Transgender activist Pushpa Mai, who is based in Jaipur, said a lot of community members approached her with queries related to vaccination."They were misguided. They were told that taking vaccination will make their health worse. We have explained to them that getting vaccinated can protect them from this deadly disease and they should get vaccinated as soon as possible," Mai said.Shahana, 21, said she had many reservations about the vaccine earlier but the activists dispelled her fears."My friends told me you will die, why do you want to risk your life... but then I asked activists and they told me there is nothing like that and I should get vaccinated as they will give me protection," Shahana, who works as an office assistant, said.Another person from the community who is HIV positive said he is not sure if vaccination is safe for him.Dr Vandana Prasad, a public health professional, said there are no contraindications that people who are HIV positive or have recently undergone surgery can't get vaccinated."There is some misinformation going around that you will die if you take the vaccines. There are some side-effects of the vaccines, including death, but that is a very, very rare event as compared to deaths due to Covid-19. They can speak to their doctors but generally if they are not severely immunocompromised, then they can get the vaccination," she said.Some people from the community are eager to get vaccinated but they do not have the necessary documents.Fifty-year-old Chandni, who earns her living by dancing at weddings and family functions, has been desperate to get vaccinated. Chandni, a diabetic, said she does not have any government documents that are necessary for her to get vaccinated."If I go anywhere to perform I am asked if me or my family members have any symptoms or if I have got vaccinated so it is necessary for me to get vaccinated to remain safe and also to earn my livelihood," she said.Samina (name changed), 44, who earns her livelihood by begging at traffic signals, does have an Aadhaar card but does not own a smartphone and is hesitant to go for walk-in vaccination fearing discrimination."My friend went and she was driven away by the people queuing outside who told her she can't get vaccinated with them. I want to go with an appointment so no one can say that but with no smartphone that is very difficult," she said.Chandni and Samina are now waiting for a special vaccination drive as planned by the government.The Centre had recently asked states to ensure that there was no discrimination against transgender persons at Covid-19 vaccination centres.The Social Justice and Empowerment Ministry has also urged the states to conduct awareness drives, especially to reach out to members of the transgender community in different vernaculars to ensure that they are informed and aware of the vaccination process.The ministry has also requested states to organise separate mobile vaccination centres or booths for vaccination of transgender persons such as those taken up in the states of Haryana and Assam.Meera Parida, representing the east region in the National Council for Transgender Persons, said she along with her NGO Sakha is planning to organise a special drive for the community members in Odisha."There were apprehensions and fears among the community members over vaccination but now the situation is improving and we are planning a special drive for the community members," Parida said.NGO Centre for Advocacy and Research (CFAR) executive director Akhila Sivadas said any disease prevention approach requires community involvement."This is particularly true for marginal groups such as transgender, who even in the best of times feel unsupported and unaccepted by mainstream society. It is not possible to ensure vaccine preparedness without engaging the community and encouraging them to be part of the solution and find ways to educate and persuade their peers," she said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/522-transgender-persons-vaccinated-till-now-misinformation-lack-of-digital-knowledge-impeding-inoculation-say-activists-101622361657009.html
30-05-2021||India||Congress lists 7 ‘criminal wrongdoings’ of Modi govt on its 7th anniversary||The Congress claimed on Sunday that the Narendra Modi government’s seven years in power could be summed up in seven “criminal wrongdoings” by the Centre, including fuelling unemployment and inflation.“In the last seven years, the Modi government has given the country unmeasurable pain. It has been seven years since the country got a failed, useless and mindless government. The country is suffering as unemployment fell to 11.3% in 7 years. Petrol [prices have crossed] ₹100 and mustard oil ₹200 in many provinces. It has proved to be the weakest government in the country in the 73 years,” Congress spokesperson Randeep Surjewala said in a press conference on Sunday.The attack by the Congress coincides with the Prime Minister Modi listing resolution of long pending disputes, prioritisation of national security, self-reliance and development works as major achievements of his government’s seven year rule at the Centre during his Mann ki Baat address on Sunday.An unimpressed Congress party also launched a 4 minutes and 36 seconds long video in support of party’s #7YearsofModiMadeDisaster social media campaign to claim that the Modi government was the weakest to step into office in the last 73 years.“The seven years of the Modi government are marked by seven criminal wrong doings,” Surjewala said, while accusing the government of being guilty of bringing upon a financial crisis, triggering unemployment and inflation, attack on farmers, lack of sympathy for the poor and the middle-class, mismanagement of Covid crisis and tampering with national security.Surjewala said the current unemployment rate was the highest in 45 years; per capita income was expected to dip to 5.4%; people were dying due to lack of life-saving drugs, oxygen and hospital beds while the government watched.On the issue of farmers’ protest, the Congress spokesperson alleged that the Modi government was playing with livelihoods to help their “capitalist friends” in the form of the three farm laws.On the national security front, Surjewaala claimed the government had failed in protecting the sovereignty and the borders of the country. “Far from showing the red eye to China, the BJP government could not hold China back from the encroachment within our border in Ladakh,” he said.He also hit out at the government for demonetisation, implementation of GST and its handling of Maoists insurgency.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/congress-lists-7-criminal-wrongdoings-of-modi-govt-on-its-7th-anniversary-101622362479312.html
30-05-2021||India||'Another typical masterstroke': Prashant Kishor on government's offer of support to children||Political strategist Prashant Kishor on Sunday tore into the Centre’s offer of support to children who have lost their parents to the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) and blamed the government for its 'catastrophic mishandling' of the pandemic.Criticising the Centre's move to aid children by offering free education and stipend on turning 18, Kishor said they should receive the support now and not when they are adults. He added that the move to offer free education to children is already a right enshrined in the Constitution."Another typical #MasterStroke by #ModiSarkar this time redefining EMPATHY and CARE for children ravaged by #Covid and its catastrophic mishandling," Kishor said, responding to a tweet shared by Prime Minister Narendra Modi.Also read | 'For being positive, we don't have to...': Prashant Kishor's fresh jibe at govtAnother typical #MasterStroke by #ModiSarkar this time redefining EMPATHY and CARE for children ravaged by #Covid and its catastrophic mishandling- Instead of receiving much needed support NOW, the children should feel POSITIVE about a PROMISE of stipend when they turn 18 (1/2) https://t.co/6m4uu16YWM“Instead of receiving much needed support NOW, the children should feel POSITIVE about a PROMISE of stipend when they turn 18. Be grateful to #PMCares for PROMISE of free education; a RIGHT guaranteed by the Constitution/RTE,” he also tweeted.Continuing with his scathing attack, Kishor also pointed to the shortage of hospital beds and oxygen last month at the peak of Covid-19 second wave in the country. "Thank @PMOIndia for ASSURANCE to be enrolled in Ayushman Bharat that supposedly covers healthcare needs of 50Cr Indians but only FAILED to provide bed/oxygen when needed,” he said.The poll strategist was reacting to a tweet posted by PM Modi stating that several children who lost their parents to Covid-19 will be cared for by the government. "PM-CARES for Children will ensure education & other assistance to children," PM said in the tweet, sharing the government's statement.According to the statement, these measures are meant “to help families maintain a good standard of living". The Centre has also liberalised and enhanced existing schemes to cover families of contractual and casual workers. Under the relief initiative, the government is extending the Employees State Insurance Corporation (ESIC) scheme, meant for employment-related deaths, to those who died due to Covid-19.Additionally, the dependent family members of the deceased will be entitled to pension benefits, which would be 90% of the average daily wage drawn by the employee as per the existing norms.Also read: Prashant Kishor wants to quit poll strategising after Mamata, Stalin's big win, says 'have had enough'Earlier this month, the election strategist jabbed the government, saying its attempt to push "falsehood" and "propaganda" in the name of spreading positivity is "disgusting". "In the face of a grieving nation and tragedies unfolding all around us, the continued attempt to push FALSEHOOD and PROPAGANDA in the name of spreading POSITIVITY is disgusting! For being positive we don’t have to become blind propagandist of the Govt," he tweeted.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/prashant-kishor-shreds-pm-modi-s-tweet-blames-govt-s-catastrophic-mishandling-101622358102205.html
30-05-2021||India||Followed Sabka Saath, Sabka Vikas, Sabka Vishwas: PM Modi on govt's 7 years in power||Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Sunday said the country has followed the mantra of 'Sabka Saath, Sabka Vikas, Sabka Vishwas during the last seven years as he talked about the Bharatiya Janata Party-led government’s seven years in power at the Centre.“Over these years, the country has followed the mantra of 'Sabka-Saath, Sabka-Vikas, Sabka-Vishwas'. All of us have worked every moment with dedication in the service of the country…Friends, whatever we have accomplished in these seven years, it has been of the country, of the countrymen. Together, we have experienced many moments of national pride in these years,” PM Modi told the listeners of Mann Ki Baat.Also read | Worked as Team India to resolve long pending issues: PM Modi in Mann ki Baat“When we observe that now India moves ahead not with the thought and pressure of other countries but with her own conviction, then we all feel proud. When we witness that now India gives a befitting reply to those who conspire against us, then our confidence soars. When India does not compromise on the issues of national security, when the strength of our armed forces increases, we feel that yes, we are on the right path,” he said.The Prime Minister said India has not only fought against the biggest pandemic in a century but also faced natural disasters, including Cyclone Tauktae on the western coast and Cyclone Yaas on the eastern coast, while battling the Covid-19 pandemic.Also watch | ‘Bigger the challenge, India’s resolve to fight it even greater’: PM ModiPM Modi said providing medical grade oxygen to different states during the second wave of Covid-19 was a challenge but the Indian Air Force (IAF), the Indian Railways and scores of tanker drivers ensured that the crucial gas was delivered to those in need on time. He spoke with the driver of a liquid oxygen tanker, a woman loco pilot and an IAF officer involved in transportation of oxygen and related equipment to drive home the point on how frontline workers have been helping fight the coronavirus pandemic.Also read | ‘Great example of naari shakti’: PM Modi to all-woman Oxygen Express’ loco pilotAs he enumerated the work done by the Centre, he said the development in terms of providing electricity to villages, connecting remotes areas to cities and houses for the poor under the Pradhan Mantri Awas Yojana and other programmes were possible because “in these seven years, more than as the Government or as the people, we worked together as one country.” “We worked as a team. We worked as Team India. Every citizen has tried to take a few steps forward in advancing the country,” he said.There are successes as well as trials, he said but “we have overcome many difficult tests as well, and each time we have all emerged stronger”, he added. The country, he said, is being continuously put to test during coronavirus pandemic. “This is a crisis that has plagued the whole world, so many people have lost their loved ones. Even big countries were not spared from its devastation. In the midst of this pandemic, India is moving forward with the resolve of service and cooperation. In the first wave, we fought courageously; this time too India will be victorious in the ongoing fight against the virus.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/followed-sabka-saath-sabka-vikas-sabka-vishwas-pm-modi-on-govt-s-7-years-101622359884705.html
30-05-2021||India||Worked as Team India to resolve long pending issues: PM Modi in Mann ki Baat||Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Sunday said India followed its “own resolve” and not “thoughts and pressures” of other nations and the country’s armed forces gave a “befitting” reply to those who “conspire” against it, inculcating a feeling of pride in the nation.In his monthly radio broadcast, Mann Ki Baat, which coincided with the seventh anniversary of the Modi government in power, the PM said the achievements in these years were an outcome of all having “worked every moment with dedication for the service of the nation.”“Whatever accomplishments have been made during these last seven years belong to the country and the countrymen. We have together experienced many moments of national pride. When we see that now India does not work as per the thoughts and pressures of other nations, but according to its resolve, we feel proud. When we see that India gives a befitting reply to all those who conspire against it, then our self-confidence gets a further boost. When India does not compromise on the issues of national security… when the strength of security forces increases then we think that yes, we are on the right track,” the PM said.The BJP-led NDA government was re-elected in May 2019 with an unprecedented majority of 303 seats.“In the last seven years the nation has resolved many old disputes peacefully and cordially. From the north-east to Kashmir there is a new belief of peace and development,” he said.Sharing the credit for these accomplishments with people, the PM went on to say, “…And have you ever thought how these works that could not be accomplished in decades have been completed in the last seven years… this has been possible because we work like a national team. We work like team India and every citizen has taken steps to help the country advance ahead.”Recounting the achievements of his government, which he said has worked on the principle of “Sabka Saath, Sabka Vikas, Sabka Vishwas …”, the PM said he receives letters from villages where electricity has reached after 70 years. “Many say they are now connected to cities via roads… I receive letters and messages from across the nation, recently a family shared a picture of a tap installed under the Jal Jeevan Mission. They captioned the photo, ‘Lifeline of my village’,” the PM said.He referred to the corona pandemic as a challenge and said during the first wave, India fought it with total courage. “This time too, India will be victorious in the fight against Covid-19….Where there are successes, there are also trials. In these 7 years, together we have seen many tough times together but each time we all came out stronger,” the PM said.The corona pandemic is the biggest challenge that has gripped the whole world, including powerful nations and many people have lost their near and dear ones, and not lowering the guard is the only way to succeed, he said.He also interacted with professionals who are on the frontlines of the war against the pandemic and said these warriors have been fighting without worrying about themselves.“In the beginning of the pandemic, there was only one testing lab in the country but today more than 2,500 labs are working. Initially only a few hundred tests could be conducted in a day, now more than 20 lakh tests are being conducted in a day,” the PM said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/worked-as-team-india-to-resolve-long-pending-issues-pm-modi-in-mann-ki-baat-101622359599311.html
30-05-2021||India||News updates from HT: India sent jet to repatriate Choksi, says Antigua and Barbuda PM and all the latest||Here are today’s top news, analysis, and opinion. Know all about the latest news and other news updates from Hindustan Times.Antigua and Barbuda PM says India has sent jet to bring back Mehul ChoksiIndia seems to be going all out as it has sent a private jet to get Mehul Choksi repatriated directly from Dominica, Antigua and Barbuda’s Prime Minister Gaston Browne has told the local media there. Read More‘Great example of naari shakti’: PM Modi to all-woman Oxygen Express’ loco pilot on Mann Ki BaatPrime Minister Narendra Modi on Sunday spoke to the loco pilot of the all-women Oxygen Express train, which transported the crucial gas needed for the treatment of critical patients of the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) to Karnataka’s Bengaluru. Read More'When beti speaks..': PM Modi interacts with 12-year-old daughter of IAF captainPrime Minister Narendra Modi on Sunday interacted with several frontline workers and thanked them for their relentless work in fighting the second wave of the pandemic. Read MoreHit by pandemic and electoral setback, BJP to recalibrate strategyThe muted celebrations on May 30 to mark the Bharatiya Janata Party’s seventh year in power at the centre are primarily on account of the death and devastation brought on by the second wave of the corona pandemic. Read More'This not just for IPL, take example of Suryakumar’: Akmal explains why the mindset of ‘Indian cricket is commendable'India is going through a golden period in international cricket. Team India have secured Test series victories against England and Australia even though they have missed a number of first-team players. Read MoreGauahar Khan in ₹1k floral print swimsuit is the perfect mix of chic and funGauahar Khan has lately been serving us with a lot of casual fashion goals. From slaying in a pair of well-fitted jeans and a basic top during her weekend getaway to rocking athleisure and looking elegant in Indian wear, the actor has been doing it all. Read More'Not Karan Johar or Anurag Kashyap, I'm your daddy': Mika Singh challenges KRK, announces diss trackSinger Mika Singh, who jumped into self-proclaimed critic Kamaal R Khan's legal tussle with actor Salman Khan earlier this week, has said that he won't be easily pushed around. Read MoreBodies in rivers; polls amid Covid, court criticism: UP Health MinisterUttar Pradesh has been one of the states hit hardest by the second wave of Covid-19 infections. Watch||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/news-updates-from-ht-india-sent-jet-to-repatriate-choksi-says-antigua-and-barbuda-pm-and-all-the-latest-101622358053773.html
30-05-2021||India||‘Great example of naari shakti’: PM Modi to all-woman Oxygen Express’ loco pilot on Mann Ki Baat||Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Sunday spoke to the loco pilot of the all-women Oxygen Express train, which transported the crucial gas needed for the treatment of critical patients of the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) to Karnataka’s Bengaluru. PM Modi said during his monthly radio programme Mann Ki Baat that Sireesha Gajani has been doing an outstanding job.“Mothers and sisters of this country would be proud to know that one of the Oxygen Express is being run by an all-women crew. Every woman of the country would be proud of this. Every Indian must be proud,” the Prime Minister said as he introduced her.“Sireesha ji, you are doing an outstanding job. Many women like you came forward during the coronavirus pandemic and gave the nation the strength to find against the disease. You are also a great example of naari shakti (woman power),” he said.Also read | India's resolve to win has always been strong, PM Modi on Mann Ki BaatThe Prime Minister asked the Indian Railways employee about what inspires her to do her job. “I got the motivation to work from my parents. They encouraged me,” she said.She also told PM Modi she worked with great pleasure as she piloted the train carrying oxygen. “I happily worked for this mission. At the time of the delivery of oxygen express, everything is checked from every point of view—safety, formation, leakage. The Indian Railways has been supportive to me. I was given a green path to operate this train. I covered 125 kilometres in one-and-a-half-hour. The railways took the responsibility and I shouldered mine,” she said.Also read | 'When beti speaks..': PM Modi interacts with 12-year-old daughter of IAF captainThe Oxygen Express train piloted by an “all-female crew" reached Bengaluru with 120 metric tonnes of medical oxygen from Jamshedpur in Jharkhand to “ensure continued supply of oxygen for COVID-19 patients in the State,” railways minister Piyush Goyal said on May 22. “The 7th Oxygen Express to Karnataka has arrived in Bengaluru from Tatanagar (Jamshedpur) on Friday. This Oxygen Express train piloted by an all-female crew will ensure continued supply of oxygen for COVID-19 patients in the State," railways minister Piyush Goyal tweeted,” he tweeted.Oxygen Express द्वारा राज्यों तक ऑक्सीजन टैंकर पहुंचाने वाली, रेलवे की लोको पॉयलट शिरीषा गजनी जी के अनुभवों को जानने के लिये प्रधानमंत्री @NarendraModi जी ने उनसे बात की। #MannKiBaat pic.twitter.com/oVqtLYzERTPrime Minister Modi also told listeners on his monthly radio programme Mann Ki Baat that the production of liquid medical oxygen, a key component in the treatment of Covid patients, has gone up by ten times. "In the normal course, we were producing 900 metric tonnes of liquid medical oxygen in a day. Today, the production has gone up to 9,500 metric tonnes a day - an increase of almost 10 per cent," he said.Also watch: Oxygen Express piloted by 'all female crew' arrives in BengaluruRailways minister Piyush Goyal said on Saturday a 20,000 metric tonnes of Liquid Medical Oxygen (LMO) have been delivered across the country by the Indian Railways' Oxygen Express during the ongoing pandemic. “OxygenExpress trains have crossed the milestone of providing 20,000 MT of Oxygen for COVID-19 patients across. So far, 300 Oxygen Express trains have completed their journey in service to the Nation,” he tweeted.Officials have said Maharashtra, Delhi, Uttar Pradesh, Punjab, Haryana, Karnataka, Tamil Nadu, Kerala, Madhya Pradesh, Telangana, Rajasthan, Uttarakhand, Andhra Pradesh and Assam have been the key beneficiaries of these Oxygen Expresses.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/great-example-of-naari-shakti-pm-modi-to-all-woman-oxygen-express-loco-pilot-101622357204062.html
30-05-2021||India||Hit by pandemic and electoral setback, BJP to recalibrate strategy||The muted celebrations on May 30 to mark the Bharatiya Janata Party’s seventh year in power at the centre are primarily on account of the death and devastation brought on by the second wave of the corona pandemic, however a slew of electoral upsets, especially in West Bengal, and allegations of governance deficit, have also forced the party to revisit its political strategy, party leaders aware of the development said.The euphoria that followed the delivery of its key promises, the construction of a Ram temple at Ayodhya; the abrogation of Article 370 from Jammu and Kashmir; and a partial deliverance of the uniform civil code by way of banning Triple Talaq, has been dampened by the accusations of inadequate pandemic response, the leaders acknowledge.The opposition has mocked the government alleging it made a premature declaration of victory in the war against the pandemic. It was also attacked for alleged reliance on non-scientific approaches to deal with Covid-19, allowing Kumbh Mela and focusing on state elections even as the cases had begun to show an upward trend.“I, along with several other people, warned the Centre over the Covid-19 pandemic multiple times. The Centre made fun of us. The Prime Minister declared victory against Covid-19. The problem here is neither the Prime Minister nor the Centre has understood the viral disease till now,” Congress MP, Rahul Gandhi said on Friday.In February, the national office bearers of the BJP passed a resolution commending the government’s Covid-19 response, while the world was “speculating over how India with its vast population and limited healthcare infrastructure” would face the challenge. It claimed it can be “said with pride that India not only defeated Covid under the able, sensitive, committed and visionary leadership of Prime Minister Shri Narendra Modi, but also infused in all its citizens the confidence to build an ‘Atmanirbhar Bharat’.”However, during the second wave as the country struggled with rising cases of deaths and infections and staggering inadequacies in essential healthcare, party leaders were left to defend the government’s policies from vaccination to not announcing a nationwide lockdown amid rising public anger.“This has been the most depressing time for the party. The blame for the many deaths was placed at the centre’s doorstep. And the public perception about the government’s abilities changed overnight. So, the party realised that it was time to withdraw from making statements. Even the Prime Minister’s messages have been fewer compared to the last time (first wave),” said a senior party leader, who didn’t wish to be named.Many party leaders also admit that the lapses can have a severe impact on the party’s electoral fortunes. Therefore, for the upcoming elections in five states—Punjab, Uttarakhand, Uttar Pradesh, Manipur and Goa--the party is recalibrating its strategy to counter an aggressive opposition. Instead of extravagant outreach programmes that have been a key aspect of its politics, the party has opted for restrained messaging.“The party brass has already instructed the cadre not to organise any celebratory events, even though they have been asked to highlight the achievements of the Modi government vis-à-vis getting vaccines, ramping up medical infrastructure and the welfare schemes such as providing 5 kg of food grains free-of-cost to around 80 crore (Pradhan Mantri Garib Kalyan Anna Yojana) beneficiaries during May and June,” said the functionary quoted above.Party leaders have also been urged not to make desultory comments and refrain from promoting unscientific practices. “The focus has to be on the achievements made in the past seven years, from housing for the poor to social schemes. The idea is not to let the pandemic overshadow the past gains,” said the functionary.Another party leader pointed out that assuaging public anger after the second wave is proving to be a challenge. “When demonetization happened, there was an explanation offered; similarly, there were reasons attributed to protests against legislation such as the farm laws and the citizenship amendment act. However, this time no explanation will cut ice,” he said.To remain visible in the public arena, the party is organising blood donation camps, creating awareness about safe distancing and Covid appropriate behaviour and helping people access medical care.A state unit president who did not wish to be quoted said the party leadership has had to face questions even from its own cadre. “The problem did not spare anyone. In many districts the party has lost dozens of local leaders or their family members. It is natural that there will be some anger and remonstration. We have also instructed our cadre not to politicise the pandemic,” the person said.A few leaders assert that the current turmoil is unlikely to impact the party’s growth in the long term as the insufficiency and weakness in critical areas of health care that were exposed during the second wave cannot be pinned on the central government alone.“The opposition led states, Maharashtra being a prime example, fared no better than the BJP ruled states. It is unfair to say that the failure belongs to the BJP. We admit there were problems, but we ensured that quick amends were made,” said a state level functionary from poll-bound UP.The functionary said the BJP’s failure to win West Bengal has amplified the criticism; “The loss has given the opposition a chance to attack the BJP and to show that the idea of BJP’s invincibility in elections is a myth.”Will the BJP face long-term losses on account of the pandemic fallout? Political commentator Sumanth C Raman says it is unlikely. “In recent times, the quality of governance is not a determining factor in winning elections. In my view, the 2019 victory was not on account of governance and the party has perfected the art of winning elections. It has delinked the process of winning elections from governance. West Bengal was a blow to the invincibility of the party, but it is too soon to write them off,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/hit-by-pandemic-and-electoral-setback-bjp-to-recalibrate-strategy-101622356178879.html
30-05-2021||India||'When beti speaks..' PM Modi interacts with 12-year-old daughter of IAF captain AK Patnaik on Mann ki Baat||Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Sunday interacted with several frontline workers and thanked them for their relentless work in fighting the second wave of the pandemic. As he was speaking to Indian Air Force group captain AK Patnaik, the captain's 12-year-old daughter Aditi came on the line and had a brief chat with the prime minister. She said she feels proud of her father but she also missed him as he spent a lot of time away from his family transporting oxygen. "We will be able to overcome this crisis," the class 8 student said, to which PM Modi said, "When a daughter speaks, we consider it as Goddess Saraswati speaking. And now that Aditi says we will overcome this crisis, we definitely will," PM Modi said.India's resolve to win has always been strong, PM Modi on Mann Ki BaatCaptain Patnaik, during his interaction with the prime minister, said that domestic oxygen transport which used to take two to three days is now being completed in 2-3 hours. International sorties, ferrying oxygen tankers and liquid oxygen containers, are also going on round the clock. Captain Patnaik said the Indian Air Force has completed over 1,600 sorties in past one month flying for over 3,000 hours. Over 160 international missions have also been completed, the captain informed PM Modi.PM Modi on Mann Ki Baat: Oxygen tanker drivers worked on war footing in Covid crisis"The biggest thing is the job satisfaction that we are getting. It is very high and that is what keeps us going," Patnaik said.As he thanked the Captain, he said his gratitude is not only for Captain Patnaik but for all armed forces. "The work that they are doing is not their usual work. Previously, India used to produce 900 metric tonne liquid medical oxygen. The production has now increased 10 times and now 9,500 metric tonne medical oxygen is being produced," PM Modi said.PM's Mann ki Baat address on May 30 coincides with the 7th year of the Modi government, "All these seven years, the government followed the mantra of Sabka saath, sabka vikas, sabka vishwas" PM Modi said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/when-beti-speaks-pm-modi-interacts-with-12-year-old-daughter-of-iaf-captain-ak-patnaik-101622354549947.html
30-05-2021||India||Centre announces measures for families who lost earning members to Covid-19. All you need to know||The Centre on Saturday announced some measures to financially help families who lost earning members to the coronavirus disease (Covid-19). These measures are meant “to help families maintain a good standard of living” the government said in a statement. The Centre also liberalised and enhanced existing schemes to cover families of contractual and casual workers.Here are some highlights from Saturday’s announcement:1. The central government is extending the Employees State Insurance Corporation (ESIC) scheme, meant for employment-related deaths, to those who died due to Covid-19.2. Dependent family members of the deceased are entitled to pension benefits, which would be 90% of the average daily wage drawn by the employee as per the existing norms.3. This scheme will be applied retrospectively to cover deaths of those who succumbed to the disease in the first wave of the pandemic ie from March 24, 2020, and for all such cases till March 24, 2022. Hence, it will cover all Covid-related fatalities for a period of two years.4. The insurance benefits provided under the Employees’ Deposit Linked Insurance Scheme (EDLI) has been enhanced by increasing the maximum benefit from ₹700,000 to ₹700,000, the government said on Saturday.5. The insurance scheme has also been liberalised to include in its purview the families of those who changed jobs in the 12 months preceding their death. Earlier, the deceased needed to be continuously employed in one establishment prior to their death for the insurance scheme to kick in. This move is expected to benefit the families of contractual and casual workers.6. The provision of a minimum benefit of ₹250,000 has been restored by the government and will be applied retrospectively to cover the families of those who succumbed to the viral disease as early as February 15 of 2020 and will cover all Covid-19 fatalities for the next three years.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/centre-announces-measures-for-families-who-lost-earning-members-to-covid-19-all-you-need-to-know-101622353307945.html
30-05-2021||India||PM Modi on Mann Ki Baat: Oxygen tanker drivers worked on war footing in Covid crisis||Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Sunday lauded the spirit and courage of people who braved two major cyclones in this month. "In this difficult and extraordinary situation of calamity, the way the people of all the states affected by the cyclones have shown courage, with great patience and discipline in the hour of this crisis. I respectfully and wholeheartedly salute all the citizens," PM Modi said on Mann Ki Baat.PM Modi also praised those who came forward and took part in the relief and rescue work and said, "any amount appreciation of all these people will not be enough."The Prime Minister was addressing the nation during the 77th edition of his monthly radio programme, Mann Ki Baat. Ahead of his address to the nation, PM Modi sought ideas and suggestions from people on his social media accounts earlier this month about topics for Mann Ki Baat.Here are the key highlights from PM Modi's address:||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/pm-modi-on-mann-ki-baat-indians-fought-two-major-cyclones-in-the-last-10-days-101622351704706.html
30-05-2021||India||Antigua and Barbuda PM says India has sent jet to bring back Mehul Choksi||India seems to be going all out as it has sent a private jet to get Mehul Choksi repatriated directly from Dominica, Antigua and Barbuda’s Prime Minister Gaston Browne has told the local media there.A Bombardier Global 5,000 jet of Qatar Executive mysteriously landed at Dominica’s Douglas Charles airport on Saturday. It’s publicly accessible flight path shows that it took off from New Delhi on May 28 and reached Dominica via Madrid.PM Browne, who has been vocal about not accepting Choksi back in his country, where he is a citizen, said, “My understanding is that [the] Indian government has sent certain documentation from courts in India to confirm that Choksi is indeed a fugitive”. These documents, Browne added, will be utilised in the court case in Dominica, where a judge is hearing the matter and has put a stay on repatriation till Wednesday.“Indian government seems to be going all out to make sure he is repatriated to India to stand trial,” Browne told a FM channel in Antigua. The interview was posted by Antigua Newsroom on its website.Indian officials were tight lipped about the team which has flown to Dominica along with the documents, but they said this was their “window of opportunity” to bring Choksi to India because once he reaches Antigua, he will have citizenship rights and the extradition case can linger on for years.Antiguan PM Browne on Saturday accused the country’s key opposition party - United Progressive Party (UPP) of taking funds from Mehul Choksi for its political campaigns.The UPP had issued a statement on Saturday in favour of Choksi saying that he should get his constitutional and legal rights as a citizen of Antigua.Browne had hit back at UPP saying - “After mischievously accusing my administration of harbouring Mehul Choksi, who has an Interpol Red Notice, they are now seeking to sanitise this fugitive to get campaign funding...There has been no violation of Choksi’s legal and constitutional protections, despite the decision of my administration to revoke his citizenship.”Earlier, on Saturday, Antigua Newsroom had released Mehul Choksi’s pictures while in custody of Dominica police.In one of the photos, he is seen standing behind bars with his left eye swollen while another photo showed bruises on his arm.Choksi’s lawyers Wayne Marsh and Vijay Aggarwal had alleged the businessman was abducted from Antigua and tortured on the way to Dominica and in custody.He had gone missing from Antigua last Sunday following which a manhunt had begun in the region.To be sure, Choksi is currently out of police custody and has been placed at a quarantine facility in Roseau, where he is allowed to meet his lawyers.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/antigua-and-barbuda-pm-says-india-has-sent-jet-to-bring-back-mehul-choksi-101622352578232.html
30-05-2021||India||UP man with yellow, black and white fungus dies: Report||A man in Uttar Pradesh’s Ghaziabad, who was also diagnosed with black, white and yellow fungal infections along with the coronavirus disease (Covid-19), has died, news agency PTI has reported citing doctors. The 59-year-old man died on Saturday, according to the news agency. "Kunwar Singh was under treatment but passed away due to toxemia (blood poisoning by toxins) at 7.30pm on Friday," Dr BP Tyagi, an ENT specialist at Harsh Hospital in the city's Raj Nagar area, told PTI on Saturday. Also read | Black fungus, white fungus, yellow fungus: All about post-Covid infectionsDr Tyagi said Singh, a lawyer from Sanjay Nagar in the city, recently approached him with symptoms of the coronavirus disease "The yellow fungus, besides white and black fungus, was detected during endoscopy on May 24," he added. The doctor also said that his hospital is treating another 59-year-old man from the state's Muradnagar who has also been detected with yellow fungus. "The fungus in Rajesh Kumar, a resident of Muradnagar, was detected near his brain. Half of his jaw has been removed," he said. Also watch: UP resident infected with black, white & yellow fungusDr Tyagi said the Muradnagar man also has toxemia but the level of infection is lesser than what Kunwar Singh had and that the patient is on anti-fungal medication. Authorities in Ghaziabad have said that there are 65 patients who have been detected in fungal infections so far and that one of them has died of it. Ghaziabad’s district magistrate Ajay Shankar Pandey said out of the 65 infected people, 31 have recovered and 33 are still undergoing treatment in various hospitals. Also read | India's daily Covid cases dip for 46th day, 165,553 new infections recordedAccording to officials, four private hospitals—Harsh, Max, Yashoda and Pulmonic—in the city are treating patients infected with fungus. The Uttar Pradesh government recently made black fungus or mucormycosis a notifiable disease under the epidemic diseases act. Ghaziabad has recorded 434 deaths linked to Covid-19 so far and 1779 active cases of coronavirus disease, official figures updated till Saturday show.(With PTI inputs)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/up-man-with-yellow-black-and-white-fungus-dies-report-101622350503180.html
30-05-2021||India||Mehul Choksi repatriation: Private jet in Dominica is from India, confirms Antigua PM||Antigua Prime Minister Gaston Browne confirmed that a private jet from India arrived at Dominica's Douglas-Charles Airport as Indian fugitive Mehul Choksi continues to be in a quarantine facility in Dominica. The picture of the jet was posted on Antigua Newsroom. "My understanding is that Indian government has sent certain documents from courts in India to confirm that he is indeed a fugitive and my understanding is that the documents will be utilised in the court case as you know the judge in Dominica has put a stay on deportation till Wednesday. So Indian government seems to be going all out to make sure he is repatriated to India to stand trial," Browne said to an FM channel.A Bombardier Global 5000 jet of Qatar Executive landed at Dominica’s Douglas Charles airport on Saturday. It’s publicly accessible flight path shows that it took off from New Delhi on May 28 and reached Dominica via Madrid.On Saturday, the first photos of the multi-crore PNB scam-accused were released where he could be seen behind the bars, with an eye swollen, bruises on his arm. These were the first public photos of Choksi in the last three years that he spent in Antigua as a legal citizen after he fled India before the scam surfaced.Also Watch | Mehul Choksi’s 1st photo in 3 yrs; Antigua PM confirms Indian jet in DominicaMehul Choksi was apprehended by Dominica Police on Wednesday after he reportedly on missing on Sunday evening. Since then, he has been in the custody of the Dominica Police. Antigua PM earlier said that he won't accept Choksi back in his country and he wants him to be repatriated straight to India where he is wanted. Dominica court, however, has put a stay on his deportation. The case will be heard again on June 2.Going by Antiguan PM's indication, the Indian government may present some document during the hearing.India does not have a repatriation agreement with Dominica and hence whether he will be deported to India will depend on the government's decision. Dominia's acting police chief Lincoln Corbette earlier said that he will be deported to Antigua and not to India.Choksi's legal team in Dominica, comprising Julian Prevost, Wayne Norde, Cara Shillingford-Marsh, and Wayne Marsh, filed a habeas corpus petition in the Eastern Caribbean Supreme Court on Friday highlighting that he should be given access to his lawyers, which the court granted.It is not yet clear how Choksi landed at Dominica, 188 km from Antigua, while his car in which he was last seen was found in Antigua. His lawyers have claimed that he was abducted and was severely beaten up.The episode has kicked up a storm in Antigua's internal politics as the prime minister accused the opposition party of receiving funds from Choksi.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/mehul-choksi-repatriation-private-jet-in-dominica-is-from-india-confirms-antigua-pm-101622346573780.html
30-05-2021||India||Pension and enhanced insurance for families who lost earning member to Covid-19||The Union government on Saturday promised pension to families that lost their earning members to Covid-19 and said it had ‘enhanced and liberalized’ the insurance compensation for such families. The government order will be applied retrospectively to cover Covid casualties since the outbreak of the pandemic in March last year.“To help families… maintain a good standard of living, benefit of ESIC (Employees State Insurance Corporation) pension scheme for employment related death cases is being extended to even those who have died due to Covid. Dependent family members of such persons will be entitled to the benefit of pension equivalent to 90% of average daily wage drawn by the worker as per the existing norms,” a government statement said.It added that the benefit will be available retrospectively with effect from 24.03.2020 and for all such cases till 24.03.2022.The move comes in addition to the slew of measures that Prime Minister Narendra Modi announced on Saturday for supporting children orphaned by Covid-19.The government also said that insurance benefits under Employees’ Deposit Linked Insurance Scheme have been enhanced and liberalised to help the families of employees who have lost their lives due to Covid.“The maximum insurance benefit has been increased from ₹ 6 lakh to ₹ 7 lakh. The provision of minimum insurance benefit of ₹ 2.5 lakh has been restored and will apply retrospectively from 15th February 2020 for the next three years,” the government statement said.Making the specific mention of the contractual/ casual workers, the statement said that the earlier clause of continuous employment in only one establishment has been done away with.“Benefit (is) being made available to families of even those employees who may have changed jobs in the last 12 months preceding his death,” the government said, adding that detailed guidelines of these schemes are being issued by the ministry of labour and employment.Speaking to HT, India’s Central labour commissioner DPS Negi said that they are already in touch with states and are seeking the details of all the workers who have lost their lives to Covid.He added that these measures will include many new beneficiaries now due to the retrospective effect.‘Since it is not just the recent deaths, families of workers who have died in the first wave after 24 March last year should also reach out to state governments or central labour commissioner’s office, so they too can avail the benefit of the schemes,” Negi said.A spokesperson from the labour ministry informed HT that the ministry is already working on a detailed notification containing the guidelines, likely to be out by Monday.Earlier on Saturday, Prime Minister Narendra Modi announced a slew of measures, from schooling to early career support, to help children orphaned by the pandemic through PM CARES For Children- a special fund created for the purpose. A corpus of ₹10 lakh will be allocated to each of these children from the fund. The PM also assured complete financial support of the education of such children till they turn 18 years of age.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/pension-and-enhanced-insurance-for-families-who-lost-earning-member-to-covid-101622346697467.html
30-05-2021||India||India's daily Covid cases dip for 46th day, 165,553 new infections recorded||Continuing on a downward curve for 46th day in a row, India on Sunday recorded 165,553 fresh cases of coronavirus disease, taking the country's cumulative tally past 27.8 million, according to the Union health ministry. The country also saw 3,460 deaths in the last 24 hours. A total of 325,972 people have died due to the coronavirus disease, data updated at 8am showed. The country's death toll has been below 4,000 for the fourth straight day.Moving swiftly to contain the spread further, the government on Saturday reconstituted the empowered groups set up to monitor and coordinate activities and response to contain the spread of Covid-19 in the country by including exclusive groups on oxygen availability, testing, vaccination and emergency response capabilities.Despite some evident signs of the wave waning, 80% of the country remains under lockdown and lockdown-like measures which kicked in last month to combat the raging infections.States like Kerala, Delhi, Puducherry, Meghalaya and Mizoram on Saturday decided to extend Covid-induced lockdown to blunt its fierce infection surge, while a clutch of other states like Himachal Pradesh and Karnataka eased restrictions.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/indias-daily-covid-cases-dip-for-46th-day-165-553-new-infections-recorded-101622342630350.html
30-05-2021||India||News updates from Hindustan Times: PM Modi to address nation on Mann Ki Baat today and all the latest news||Here are today’s top news, analysis, and opinion. Know all about the latest news and other news updates from Hindustan Times.PM Modi to address the nation on Mann Ki Baat todayPrime Minister Narendra Modi will address the nation during the 77th edition of his monthly radio programme, Mann Ki Baat, at 11am on Sunday. Read MoreSoon, breeze through immigration ‘e-gates’The bureau of immigration is all set to install automated e-gates, which will scan passenger information without any human intervention, at Delhi’s Indira Gandhi International Airport starting July. Read MoreChoksi’s 1st photo in 3 yrs emerges as next stop bursts a controversy in AntiguaA media outlet late on Saturday released two images of fugitive businessman Mehul Choksi while in the custody of the authorities in the Caribbean nation of Dominica. Read MoreIndia, US to cement bilateral ties with Quad after Jaishankar visitIndia and the US have decided to cement bilateral ties with the Quad security grouping and the Indo-Pacific taking priority, and, critically, with Washington expressing support for New Delhi’s stand on health security, Afghanistan and transgressions on its borders. Read MoreNice to meet Abramovich a bit closer: Tuchel's first meeting with Chelsea owner is with... a UEFA Champions League titleThomas Tuchel was hired at the start of 2021 to get Chelsea into the UEFA Champions League. Chelsea was outside the top-four of the Premier League and had just sacked legend Frank Lampard as manager. Read MoreMasaba Gupta goes for a run in the mountains: And miles to go before I sleepBe it early morning Yoga or a run in the mountains, Masaba Gupta makes sure that she works out every day. Read MoreKamaal R Khan, being sued for defamation by Salman Khan, vows ‘isko sadak par le aaoonga’Self-proclaimed critic Kamaal R Khan aka KRK has vowed to end actor Salman Khan’s career and bring him on the streets. Read MorePETA, Amul argue over switching to vegan milk: Know what happenedPeople for the Ethical Treatment of Animals (PETA) India has asked Amul to make a decision to switch to producing vegan milk. Watch||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/news-updates-from-hindustan-times-pm-modi-to-address-nation-on-mann-ki-baat-today-and-all-the-latest-news-101622343606877.html
30-05-2021||India||Odisha schools and colleges to teach disaster and pandemic management||Odisha’s Naveen Patnaik government has decided to make disaster and pandemic management not only part of high school and college curriculum but also an essential skill set for existing and future government employees with the aim to make the state ready to tackle any biological or climatic disaster.The decision, taken on Saturday, following a cabinet meeting chaired by the chief minister to mark the second anniversary of his government’s 5th term, comes in the aftermath of the state’s disaster management machinery blunting the impact of cyclone Yaas---more than 100 tropical cyclones have hit Odisha since 1891—which made a landfall on May 26 and amid its battle with the second wave of Covid-19 pandemic, which has killed at least 2,686 residents so far.“From now on, every high school and college student will learn about disaster and pandemic management as part of the curriculum,” said the resolution passed by the council of ministers.It added that recruitment for state government jobs will require mandatory learning on disaster and pandemic management and each government employee will be trained on the fundamental nature of different kinds of disasters.Pointing out that the role of elected representatives changes significantly during times of distress, the resolution said that from ward members to the CM, everyone will be trained on disaster and pandemic management. Members of Mission Shakti groups, Vana Surakshya Samitis, and other community-based organizations will also be trained and equipped with the knowledge to make Odisha a leading state in disaster preparedness with the presence of a “Yodha in every home”.Three persons lost their lives due to cyclone Yaas, which did not inflict any major damages except causing huge amounts of rain in a few coastal districts. Officials and experts credit mass evacuations carried out by Central and state agencies for the low casualty. However, CM Patnaik has demanded that the Centre help the state in creating disaster resilient power infrastructure and a resilient coastal protection framework with storm surge resilient embankments.Meanwhile, the state water resources department has decided to construct a 380 km long saline embankment to ensure minimal erosion in the six coastal districts of the state.Engineer-in-chief of the water resources department, Jyotirmaya Rath said the 380-km-long special embankments will be constructed by packing stones in wire mesh. Initially ₹1,944 crore will be spent for the sea embankment project. The government has estimated to spend a total of ₹6,000 crore on the project.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/odisha-schools-and-colleges-to-teach-disaster-and-pandemic-management-101622344897363.html
30-05-2021||India||No, hotels can't offer Covid-19 vaccine package, clarifies Centre||As a social media post of a famous hotel chain offering a vaccination package in Hyderabad's Hitec city went viral on social media with several political leaders pointing out the disparity in the vaccine situation of the country, the Union health ministry clarified that this is not allowed and legal and administrative action will be taken against such hotels and private hospitals agreeing to sell the vaccines.In a letter addressed to all states and Union territories, the health ministry reiterated that four avenues for vaccination are permitted — government Covid vaccination centres, private centres run by private hospitals, workplace Covid vaccination centres run by either government or private hospitals, and special centres at housing societies, community centres, panchayat bhawans, schools/colleges, old age homes only for elderly and disabled.Also Read: Centre allocates vaccines for June as many states complain about doses sanctionedहोटलों में टीकाकरण पैकेज #COVID19 नियमों के खिलाफ़, कानूनी कार्रवाई होगी!कुछ अस्पतालों द्वारा होटलों के साथ मिलकर लोगों को वैक्सीनेशन पैकेज का ऑफर देना दुर्भाग्यपूर्ण है। @MoHFW_INDIA ने राज्यों को पत्र लिखकर पैकेज देने वालों के खिलाफ़ कार्रवाई करने को कहा है। @PMOIndia pic.twitter.com/4ey4VAmJD7Apart from this, there are no other avenues to carry out vaccination under the national Covid vaccination programme. All such programmes being carried out in star hotels need to be stopped immediately, the Centre said.On one hand, Central Govt has ensured no shortage of vaccines in Private sector - with 'vaccination packages' in luxury hotels.On the other hand, State Govt run vaccination centres which provide free doses are shut due to non availability of vaccines.#VaccinationGhotala pic.twitter.com/DdV35eHL8bThe advertisement which went viral on social media announced a vaccine package starting at ₹2,999 including a comfortable stay, vaccination by experts from a renowned hospital, a healthy breakfast and dinner, on-request clinical consultation and Wi-Fi. AAP leader Raghav Chadha shared one such post and said the central government has facilitated such a vaccination package by ensuring a steady supply to private hospitals, while state-run centres which offer free vaccination have no stock.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/no-hotels-can-t-offer-covid-19-vaccine-package-clarifies-centre-101622344117164.html
30-05-2021||India||200,000 Amphotericin B doses used in black fungus treatment reaches India||A consignment of 200,000 AmBisome (Amphotericin B injection), used in black fungus treatment reached India on early Sunday."Another consignment of AmBisome from @GileadSciences, used in Black Fungus treatment, reaches India. Total 200,000 doses already there so far. More to follow!" tweeted Ambassador of India to United States, Taranjit Singh Sandhu.Mucormycosis, commonly known as black fungus, has wreaked havoc across India, especially in Covid-19 patients who have been administered heavy doses of steroids to treat the infection.Many states have declared black fungus as a epidemic disease including Madhya Pradesh, Rajasthan, Uttarakhand, Tamil Nadu and Bihar under the Epidemic Act 1897.Prime Minister Narendra Modi has instructed all concerned officials to arrange the drug from anywhere in the world on a war footing."The PM had instructed officials to get this drug from anywhere it is available in the world. Indian missions across the world have been involved in securing supplies of this drug. It has been achieved with help of Gilead Sciences in USA," the sources said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/200000-amphotericin-b-doses-used-in-black-fungus-treatment-reaches-india-101622341525105.html
30-05-2021||India||PM Modi to address the nation on Mann Ki Baat shortly||Prime Minister Narendra Modi will address the nation during the 77th edition of his monthly radio programme, Mann Ki Baat, at 11am on Sunday. PM Modi had sought ideas and suggestions from people on his social media accounts earlier this month about topics for Mann Ki Baat where he addresses the country over a range of issues.The programme will also be broadcast in regional languages immediately after the Hindi broadcast on All India Radio. The regional language versions will be repeated at 8 in the evening.Earlier this month, PM Modi asked people to share their ideas for discussion on Mann ki Baat. "PM Narendra Modi looks forward to sharing his thoughts on themes and issues that matter to you. The Prime Minister invites you to share your ideas on topics he should address on the 77th Episode of Mann Ki Baat.Also read: Vijayan writes to PM Modi; urges him for continuous supply of Covid-19 vaccinesThe programme is held on the last Sunday of every month. Prime Minister Modi also shared a toll-free number for people to record their message in either Hindi or English.In the last edition of Mann Ki Baat, PM Modi lauded the efforts made by healthcare workers at the forefront of the fight against Covid-19 and addressed several topics such as vaccine hesitancy. The Prime Minister also spoke to an ambulance driver Prem Verma as he lauded the efforts of other frontline workers such as lab technicians.He further urged people to stay positive and follow the treatment protocol as per the doctor's advice. PM Modi noted that the second wave of Covid-19 is testing people's patience and their limit to bear the pain. He added that this "toofan" (storm) has shaken the country after it was full of spirit and self-confidence after successfully tackling the first wave.In over 30-minute broadcast, PM Modi's address singularly focussed on the pandemic, which has been rampaging across the country for weeks, with Modi asserting that defeating the disease is the biggest priority.Also read | Neither PM Modi nor Centre understood Covid-19 pandemic: Rahul GandhiIndia on Saturday recorded 1,73,790 fresh Covid-19 cases, taking the cumulative tally past 27.7 million, as the country recorded less than 200,000 cases for the third time in this month, according to the Union health ministry.The fresh infections of the viral contagion recorded on Saturday are the lowest India has seen in 45 days.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/pm-modi-to-address-the-nation-on-mann-ki-baat-today-101622337916519.html
30-05-2021||India||Ramdev shares old video of Aamir Khan, throws new challenge to 'medical mafia'||Yoga guru Ramdev on Saturday tweeted an old video of Bollywood actor Aamir Khan's television show 'Satyamev Jayate' and asked if the "medical mafias" have the courage to take on the Bollywood actor. In the video, Aamir Khan can be seen talking with Dr Samit Sharma who explains the price difference between a generic medicine and branded medicine.This comes as Ramdev's latest dig at allopathic doctors amid the ongoing tussle between the yoga guru and the Indian Medical Association that started last Saturday after a video of Ramdev trashing allopathy went viral. The medical association had written to Union health minister Dr Harsh Vardhan and consequently, Ramdev withdrew the video, expressing regret. But the two sides are far from burying the hatchet as the IMA sent a legal notice to Patanjali Yogpeeth. Patanjali too is taking the legal route, general secretary Acharya Balkrishna said earlier.इन मेडिकल माफियाओं में हिम्म्त है तो आमिर खान के खिलाफ मोर्चा खोलें-वीडियो साभार-स्टार प्लस pic.twitter.com/ZpNT8CSohDIn the video that Ramdev tweeted on Saturday, Dr Samit Sharma says the original price of medicines is way lower than the market price. "More than 40 crore people can't afford two square meals a day. Can they buy medicines at 50 per cent higher price?" he says."That's why many people remain deprived of medicines," Aamir Khan can be heard saying.The video is from 2012 when the television show, which ran till 2014, debuted. The episode from where the video was taken deals with generic medicine and the branding of medicine. "A specific blood cancer medicine which lasts for a month costs ₹1.25 lakh. But the generic medicine costs around ₹10,000, including all costs," Dr Sharma says.Indian Medical association national chief Dr JA Jayalal has recently said that doctors and their associations do not have anything against Ramdev, but as he has many followers, his comments on Covid-19 can discourage people from getting vaccinated. Dr Jayalal said IMA will withdraw its complaint and the legal notice once Ramdev withdraws his disparaging comments against modern medicine in its entirety. While the Uttarkhand chapter of the Indian Medical Association challenged experts from Patanjali Yogpeeth to a televised debate on allopathy, a fresh complaint against Ramdev was filed by the West Bengal chapter of the Indian Medical Association. The Federation of Resident Doctors' Association has announced a nationwide protest against Ramdev's remarks on June 1.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/ramdev-shares-old-video-of-aamir-khan-throws-new-challenge-to-medical-mafia-101622340212913.html
30-05-2021||India||India, US to cement bilateral ties with Quad after Jaishankar visit||India and the US have decided to cement bilateral ties with the Quad security grouping and the Indo-Pacific taking priority, and, critically, with Washington expressing support for New Delhi’s stand on health security, Afghanistan and transgressions on its borders.According to diplomats in Washington and New Delhi, External Affairs Minister S Jaishankar’s first official physical interaction with his counterpart and the US national security team has resulted in assurances from the Joe Biden administration on India’s concerns over Afghanistan and the Indo-Pacific.The two sides discussed the security situation in Afghanistan in detail in the backdrop of the US withdrawing its forces from the strife-torn Islamic Republic.Also read: India throws weight behind Quad groupIn the context of violence being perpetrated by Taliban, the US apparently assured Jaishankar that while its military will withdraw from Afghanistan in October, the Biden administration will be keeping a close watch on the Af-Pak region so that security situation in the region does not deteriorate.The US national security team also assured the visiting minister of an appropriate response if things go south in Afghanistan. The Taliban wants to convert the Islamic Republic into an Emirate with Sharia law enforced by Sunni Pashtuns over other minorities.During his interaction with principals of the Biden administration, Jaishankar was also assured of support for India’s vaccine programme and for vaccine raw materials. The US has conveyed that it will do all it can to support India in its quest for health security, the diplomats added.HT also learns that mutual concerns over China’s aggressive behaviour were discussed, with both India and the US worried about developments in the Indo-Pacific due to the rapidly expanding PLA Navy and its intermediate range nuclear arsenal.Also read: US aims targeted sanctions at Belarus after journalist held“The Biden administration has gone a step ahead of the Trump administration in supporting India whether it be on Indo-Pacific, Defence Cooperation or health security,” said a senior Washington-based diplomat.Before the Quad physical summit this fall, US, Indian, Japanese and Australian diplomats will work out an elaborate agenda to define the Quad grouping. This includes cooperation among QUAD partners in areas such as the economy, technology, disaster relief and building resilient supply chains -- all with an eye on the evolving security situation in the Indo-Pacific.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/india-us-to-cement-bilateral-ties-with-quad-after-jaishankar-visit-101622335844820.html
30-05-2021||India||Covid-19 tracker: More than 27.89 million cases after over 165k infections reported on Saturday||||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/covid19-tracker-more-than-27-89-million-cases-after-over-165k-infections-reported-on-saturday-101622334372880.html
30-05-2021||India||2 civilians killed as terrorists open fire in J&K’s Anantnag||Two civilians, including a 20-year-old student, were killed in firing by terrorists on Saturday in Anantnag district of Jammu and Kashmir, police said.A police official said the two sustained injuries and were rushed to a hospital.The terrorists opened fire at the two civilians at Jablipora in Bijbehara area of Anantnag district, the official said.The injured were identified as Shahnawaz Ahmad Bhat, 35, son of Ghulam Qadir Bhat, dental technician by profession and Sanjeed Ahmad Parray, 19, son of Abdul Azeem Parray, a student, said a police official, adding that they succumbed to injuries later.Meanwhile, the official said that the area where the firing took place has been cordoned off and attempts to nab the attackers were on.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/2-civilians-killed-as-terrorists-open-fire-in-j-k-s-anantnag-101622331598479.html
30-05-2021||India||Covid-induced lockdown extended in 3 states, 2 UTs||Kerala, Delhi, Puducherry, Meghalaya and Mizoram on Saturday decided to extend Covid-induced lockdown to blunt its fierce infection surge, while a clutch of other states like Himachal Pradesh and Karnataka eased restrictions.At a press conference, Kerala chief minister Pinarayi Vijayan announced one more week extension of the statewide lockdown till June 9, to contain the spread of the Covid-19 pandemic, with some relaxations to perform essential activities.Vijayan said the lockdown would be lifted only after “test positivity rate (TPR) slips below 15 % for three consecutive days and active caseload comes down drastically.” The state reported 23,513 new cases on Saturday, taking its tally to 2,494,385.However, some concessions have been allowed such as opening of jewellery shops, cloth markets and book stalls for three days a week and industrial and small-scale units allowed to function with 50% capacity, besides banks will also function for three days.Also read: PM CARES to help children orphaned due to CovidPuducherry government,too, has extended the lockdown till the midnight of June 7. The Union territory continues to report a surge in infections with 996 new cases on Saturday that took its tally to 102,896.The lockdown-like measures have been extended in the Capital Delhi till June 7 even as the government has allowed manufacturing and construction industries to operate in designated industrial areas. The Union territory recorded 956 new cases on Saturday that took its tally to 1,424,646.The governments of Mizoram, Meghalaya and Goa, too, have decided to extend the ongoing lockdown till June 6 and 7, respectively.Around 80% of India has been under the lockdown since May to contain the raging second wave of the pandemic.Meanwhile, Karnataka chief minister B S Yediyurappa said no decision has been taken on extending the lockdown, scheduled to end at 6 am on June 7.Himachal Pradesh has, however, eased some restrictions on Saturday allowing shops to open for two additional hours every day and increase attendance in offices to 30%.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/lockdown-extended-in-3-states-2-uts-101622329995490.html
30-05-2021||India||India throws weight behind Quad group||The Quad grouping fills a “very important gap” that has emerged in contemporary times and New Delhi has clarity on its membership in it, external affairs minister S Jaishankar said, re-emphasising India’s support to a rules-based order in the Indo-Pacific amid China’s actions in the region.India, the US, Japan and Australia constitute the Quadrilateral security dialogue or Quad. China has been wary of the Quad that was revived in late 2017. Beijing’s suspicions have increased since the four countries upgraded the forum to the ministerial level in 2019.“Quad today fills a very important gap that has emerged in contemporary times, where there are global or regional requirements, which cannot be filled by a single country. It cannot even be filled by one bilateral relationship, and which is not being addressed at the multilateral level,” Jaishankar said after concluding key meetings in Washington on Friday.Speaking to reporters at the conclusion of a two-day engagement with the Biden administration in back-to-back meetings, the external affairs minister also noted that he underscored India’s desire to ramp up production of Covid-19 vaccines at many of his meetings, his top objective for the visit, as the US held an “absolutely indispensable” position in the supply chain.Jaishankar is the first Indian cabinet minister to visit the US since Joe Biden became the president on January 20.His other objectives for the visit were to convey India’s appreciation for “very strong solidarity” shown by the US with India as it deals with the second wave of the Covid-19 pandemic, and to engage with a new administration at a cabinet level and, as the minister put it, they have their own world view and “they need to hear ours”. Jaishankar on Friday met with US secretary of defence Lloyd Austin and secretary of state Antony Blinken, topping off engagements the previous day with US national security adviser Jake Sullivan, US trade representative Katherine Tai and the director of national intelligence Avril Haines. He also met some lawmakers and business leaders during his visit.Hours before Jaishankar arrived in Washington DC from New York, the first two-day leg of his US visit, Kurt Campbell, who is US President Joe Biden’s Indo-Pacific czar, said plans were afoot to convene an in-person summit of the leaders of the Quad this fall. “I mean when we are members of anything we are very keen about it, otherwise we won’t be members,” Jaishankar said in response to a question about India’s intent as a member of the Quad. “...we have clarity on the Quad.”India’s commitment to the Quad has been the subject of much speculation despite the fact that it is Australia that left the fledgling group under pressure from China in 2008. The group was given up for dead until it was resurrected in 2017.Jaishankar was India’s foreign secretary then. The first meeting of the renewed Quad, on the sidelines of the ASEAN summit, was scaled up to the level of ministers in 2019. Jaishankar attended that first ministerial meet, which took place on the sidelines of the UN general assembly meetings.“We see the Quad (as) an expression of the convergence of interests of many countries; it is in many ways a reflection of the contemporary nature of the world order, where you know, it’s not a, sort of, you know, at some stage, we have to put the Cold War behind us,” Jaishankar said, going on to dismiss sceptics and critics as those “who are stuck in the Cold War”.“Quad used to (and) still does discuss maritime security and connectivity; in recent years. It has started to discuss technology issues, supply chain issues and vaccine production. So, there are a whole set of issues,” the minister noted.Without naming any country, Jaishankar said there are “many, many concerns” which have to be addressed by somebody.“Big countries can do a large portion of it. Big relationships can add to it. But at the end of the day, most things work better if a group of countries sit together and say, okay, we all have similar positions and similar interests, and why don’t we all sit and address those sets of issues.The first summit of the Quad leaders was hosted by US President Joe Biden on March 12 and the virtual meeting was attended by Prime Minister Narendra Modi, Australian Prime Minister Scott Morrison and Japanese Prime Minister Yoshihide Suga.China has vehemently opposed the formation of the Quad, with a Chinese foreign ministry spokesperson emphasising in March that exchanges and cooperation between countries should help expand mutual understanding and trust, instead of targeting or harming the interests of third parties.The four Quad leaders have vowed to strive for an Indo-Pacific region that is free, open, inclusive, healthy, anchored by democratic values, and unconstrained by coercion, sending a clear message to China against its aggressive actions in the region.(With inputs from agencies)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/india-throws-weight-behind-quad-group-101622325477421.html
30-05-2021||India||Pulwama hero’s widow completes mission to become an army officer||“I could feel as if he was holding me and saying ‘yes, you did it’,” said lieutenant Nitika Kaul shortly after she was officially commissioned as an officer in the Indian Army.The 29-year-old officer, wife of Major Vibhuti Shankar Dhoundiyal, who was killed in an encounter with terrorists in Kashmir’s Pulwama district in February 2019, said she decided to join the army as a “true and fitting tribute” to her late husband.On Saturday, Kaul graduated from the Officers Training Academy (OTA) as a lieutenant at a low-key ceremony held in Chennai amid Covid-19 restrictions.“Maj Vibhuti Shankar Dhoundiyal made the Supreme Sacrifice at Pulwama in 2019... Today, his wife Nitika Kaul dons Indian Army uniform, paying him a befitting tribute...” read a tweet by Defence PRO, Udhampur, on Saturday.Kaul, who worked at a multinational corporation in Delhi, was married for under a year when Major Dhoundiyal lost his life in the Pulwama encounter. Videos circulating on social media showed her bidding an emotional goodbye to her husband at his funeral in his hometown, Dehradun.Major Dhoundiyal was among five security personnel killed in the February 18, 2019 encounter -- in which three Jaish-e-Mohammad terrorists, including two top commanders believed to be behind the Pulwama attack on a Central Reserve Police Force (CRPF) convoy -- were gunned down.He was awarded the Shaurya Chakra posthumously.After his death, Kaul cleared the Short Service Commission (SSC) exam and interview last year, and graduated on Saturday.Lt General YK Joshi, chief of the Indian Army’s Northern Command, pipped the stars on her uniform and congratulated her on her achievement.The young officer, whose family belongs to Kashmir but is settled in Delhi, said she was thankful to her family members and friends for believing in her.“This wouldn’t have been possible without their support and faith. The day I stepped into the 11-month training course at OTA, I imagined the journey that Vibhu had traversed through.“He is a part of my life and always somewhere around. Today also, I can just feel that he is holding me and saying, ‘yes, you did it,’” said Lt Kaul.Uttarakhand chief minister Tirath Singh Rawat said: “Joining the army by Lt Nitika Kaul was not just a true tribute to her brave husband Maj Dhoundiyal who made the supreme sacrifice in Kashmir, but is also a matter of immense pride for Uttarakhand (Dhoundiyal’s home state).”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/pulwama-hero-s-widow-completes-mission-to-become-an-army-officer-101622322932577.html
30-05-2021||India||Petrol price surges to ₹100/litre in Mumbai||The price of petrol crossed ₹100 per litre in Mumbai on Saturday as state-run retailers raised fuel rates for the 15th time in 26 days, raising petrol rates by 26 paise per litre and diesel by 28 paise.The latest hike made petrol ₹3.54 a litre costlier and diesel ₹4.16 since May 4, a day after the results of five assembly polls were declared.Prices of auto fuels are at record levels across the country; diesel was sold at ₹92.17 a litre in the financial capital, the highest among all metro cities. Pump prices of petrol and diesel in Delhi on Saturday also made new records of ₹93.94 per litre and ₹84.89 a litre, respectively.While fuel rates in Delhi are the benchmark for the entire country, retail prices of the two fuels differ from place to place because of variations in state taxes and local levies.Consumers in several cities, particularly in states such as Rajasthan, Maharashtra and Madhya Pradesh, are paying over ₹100 for one litre of petrol. Some of the cities selling the fuel over ₹100/ litre are Ratnagiri, Parbhani, Aurangabad, Indore, Bhopal, Gwalior, Jaisalmer, Ganganagar and Banswara.Surging international oil rates and exorbitant domestic tax structure are two key reasons for high rates of petrol and diesel at pumps. Benchmark Brent crude rose marginally by 0.24% to $69.63 a barrel on Friday. Indian fuel retailers align pump prices of petrol and diesel with their international benchmark rates of the previous day. Even as international oil prices saw both upward and downward movements this month, pump rates of fuels in India moved only in the upward direction.Pump prices of fuels are also high because of taxes. In Delhi, central levies account for 35.5% of petrol’s price and state taxes, 23%, according to official data of May 16. On diesel, central taxes are over 38.2% while state taxes are about 14.6%. Through 2020, as global crude prices fell, the central government raised excise duty on the fuel to shore up its finances.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/petrol-prices-breach-the-100-mark-in-mumbai-101622317953170.html
30-05-2021||India||Odisha man hacks dog to death; arrested after gruesome video goes viral||A man from Kendrapara district seen killing a street dog in a widely-circulated video has been arrested, the Odisha police said on Saturday. The man was identified as Babula Singh, a resident of Praharajpur locality in Pattamundai town, just about 50 km from Odisha capital Bhubaneswar.In the 15-second grisly video, Babula Singh, 50, is seen approaching the dog, one arm raised to hide the sharp-edged weapon from the animal lying on the ground. The dog looks up. And then, comes the deadly blow.The weapon, presumably a large knife, slashed the dog’s abdomen. It was an agonizing death that outraged many. Some reached out to the district’s police chief.Police said a case of cruelty was registered under various provisions including section 429 of the Indian Penal Code and section 11 (1) of the Prevention of Cruelty to Animals Act 1960.The 1960-vintage special law to deter cruelty to animals prescribes a fine of ₹10-50 for the first offence of cruelty to animals, and for a repeat offence within three years of the first, a fine of ₹25-100 and up to 3 months jail.Section 429 of the penal code, which prescribes the punishment for mischief by killing or maiming any animal, provides for a jail sentence of up to a maximum of five years.It was on account of this section in the FIR that Babula Singh was remanded in judicial custody by a judge.Inspector Rakesh Tripathy at the Pattamundai police station said Babula Singh told the police that he was angry that the dog had killed two of his roosters.Earlier this month, a retired bank official in Bhubaneswar was arrested by police on charges of animal cruelty after a video clip emerged in which he was seen throwing three kittens, which had entered his house, in front of street dogs. The dogs killed the kittens.The accused, identified by the police as a retired bank official Prahallad Behera, was arrested on charges of animal crueltyIn May 2020, a pregnant dog was mercilessly beaten to death by a woman in Bhubaneswar. Despite all attempts, she could not be saved and her two premature puppies who were delivered after surgery also succumbed later.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/odisha-man-hacks-dog-to-death-arrested-after-gruesome-video-goes-viral-101622312897923.html
30-05-2021||India||Positivity rate declines, but Covid surge continues in rural Odisha||Even as Odisha was witnessing a decline in the test positivity rate, the rural Covid surge that health experts and state government had feared all along might be happening across the state.On Saturday, the test positivity rate (TPR) in Odisha dropped to 14.7% and the state reported 7,188 new infections from over 10,000 a couple of days ago, according to the state health department data. “We are on a better position as TPR is declining. There is little cause for worry now,” said director of public health Niranjan Mishra.Click here for complete coverage of Covid-19However, experts attributed fewer new cases to declining number of tests. From over 67,000 tests on May 22, the total number of tests dropped to a little over 48,000 on May 28, data suggests. “Isn’t the state government’s celebration a little too premature?” asked Gouranga Mohapatra, state convenor of Jana Swasthya Abhiyan, a public health campaign. “If the government tests nearly 100,000 a day, we would have at least 20,000 cases a day. The government is simply not testing enough in rural Odisha, where the surge is happening,” Mohapatra added.As per state health department’s statistics, around 55% of the 400,000 odd positive cases since April 1 this year are from rural areas. While around 51% of the total cases were from rural areas in April, it climbed up to 57% in May.In Dhenkanal district, which is clocking TPR of around 37%, the highest in Odisha over the past one week, 96 people in Barsinga village of Hindol block tested positive after attending a community feast. Similarly, in Jaypur Kateni village of Parjang block in the district, 82 tested positive. In Mundideuli village of Kamakhyanagar block, 52 tested positive.“We have declared all these villages as containment zones keeping with our policy of labelling any village with more than 10 positive cases. In rural areas, surveillance by police is not possible during lockdown due to lack of manpower. When people come in contact with positive cases in marriage feasts, dozens are getting infected. Marriage feasts have become superspreader events in our district,” said Dhenkanal district collector Bhumesh Behera.While the Covid surge in rural areas continues, cyclone Yaas might have made things worse for the cyclone-affected districts of Balasore, Bhadrak, Kendrapara and Jagatsinghpur district, experts said.In coastal Jagatsinghpur, which was affected by the cyclone early this week, three villages of Gadaharispur panchayat under Erasama block were declared as containment zone till June 4.Erasama block development officer Kailash Behera said though the administration had identified 32 designated shelters with a capacity of 1,000 persons in the block, at least 8,000 people took shelter in 150 more buildings the night before the cyclone struck the Odisha coast.“Scared of the cyclone hitting the district, those people ran into any pucca building including anganwadi centre in the area on Tuesday evening. No one knows if any of them followed Covid protocols,” said Behera. Soon after the cyclone, 14 persons, including the panchayat executive officer and the gram rozgar sevak who took part in the evacuation process, tested positive for Covid-19.In cyclone-affected Kendrapara district, at least 13 villages were declared containment zones after 550 persons tested positive in two days. In Balasore district, panchayati raj functionaries said the number of positive persons is likely to go up in next few days.Also read: Odisha man hacks dog to death; arrested after gruesome video goes viralNibedita Nayak, sarpanch of Baripada grampanchayat in Bahanaga block, where cyclone Yaas made the landfall, said many people in the villages were showing Covid symptoms. “As many villages are waterloddged and people are taking shelter in pucca buildings or in someone else’s house, Covid protocols are difficult to follow. I expect cases to explode in next few days once tests rise,” said Nayak.Health experts said cyclone-affected districts are likely to report more positive cases in next few weeks due to crowding of shelters. “Balasore, which has been consistently reporting over 30% positivity over the last month, has seen fewer tests after Yaas struck Odishs coast. Same is the case with Bhadrak district, which is now reporting over 36% positivity over last week. From 4,400-odd tests before the cyclone, Balasore is now testing less than one third of it. Bhadrak’s numbers are down by over 75% from its pre-cyclone numbers of over 2,500. Once the testing in these two districts reaches pre-cyclone level, they would report much higher cases,” said Sarit Rout of Public Health Foundation of India.Gouranga Mohapatra of Janaswasthya Abhiyan said the rural surge of Covid would continue to be headache for Odisha considering the lack of doctors in many primary health centres. “The government erred in not starting quarantine centres in villages where home isolation is practically impossible due to lack of space. The testing strategy is also flawed as only symptomatic people are being tested while other people in the family who are exposed to the symptomatic person are not tested. This would result in the spread of virus go undetected,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/positivity-rate-declines-but-covid-surge-continues-in-rural-odisha-101622312792701.html
30-05-2021||India||PM CARES to help kids orphaned due to Covid||Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Saturday announced a slew of measures to help children orphaned by the pandemic as he chaired a meeting on Covid relief.Launching a specially designed scheme named PM CARES For Children, Modi said a corpus of ₹10 lakh will be allocated to each of these children from the PM CARES fund. The PM also assured assistance in the education of such children.“PM CARES will contribute… to create a corpus of ₹10 lakh for each child… This corpus will be used to give a monthly financial support/ stipend from 18 years of their age, for the next five years … and on reaching the age of 23 years, he or she will get the corpus amount as one lump-sum for personal and professional use,” a statement from the Prime Minister’s office said.According to the government, at least 577 children were orphaned due to the second wave of Covid in India from April 1 to May 25.The statement said children less than 11 years of age will be given admission in the nearest Kendriya Vidyalaya or in a private school as day scholars and the fees, expenditure on uniform, text books and notebooks will be borne by the PM CARES fund. For children 11 to 18 years of age, the statement added they can take admission in any central government residential school like Sainik School, Navodaya Vidyalaya, etc.“In case the child’s education is to be continued under the care of Guardian/ grandparents/ extended family, then he or she will be given admission in the nearest Kendriya Vidyalaya or in a private school... and PM Cares will pay for the expenditure…,” the statement added.Earlier on May 19, Congress president Sonia Gandhi wrote a letter to Modi urging him to provide free education in Navodaya Vidyalayas to children whose parents died of Covid-19.“I feel that as a nation, we owe it to them, to give them hope for a robust future after the unimaginable tragedy that has befallen them,” she wrote.Regarding the higher education of these children, the PM’s office said that the government will assist them in easily obtaining study loans, the interest on which will be paid from the PM CARES fund.It also added that as an alternative, scholarship equivalent to the course fees for undergraduate/vocational courses will be provided to such children under central or state government schemes. “For children who are not eligible under the existing scholarship schemes, PM CARES will provide an equivalent scholarship,” the statement said.At the meeting, it was also decided that all such children will be enrolled as beneficiaries under the Ayushman Bharat Scheme (PM-JAY) with a health insurance cover of ₹5 lakh, the premium of which will be paid from the PM CARES fund till they reach 18 years of age.Union child and women development minister Smriti Irani said the announcement will ensure such children are not deprived of any opportunity and secure their future.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/pm-cares-to-help-children-orphaned-due-to-covid-101622312732729.html
30-05-2021||India||Centre forms 8-member panel to examine GST exemption on Covid material||The Centre on Saturday constituted an eight-member ministerial panel under the convenership of Meghalaya chief minister Conrad K Sangma to examine Goods and Services Tax (GST) exemptions on a range of Covid-19 essentials such as vaccines, drugs, testing kits and ventilators, according to the Union finance ministry.Other members of the group of ministers (GoM) are – Gujarat deputy chief minister Nitinbhai Patel, Maharashtra deputy CM Ajit Pawar, Goa transport minister Mauvin Godinho, Kerala finance minister KN Balagopal, Odisha finance minister Niranjan Pujari, Telangana finance minister T Harish Rao and UP finance minister Suresh Kr Khanna.The GoM will submit its recommendations to the GST Council on or before June 8, the Union finance ministry said. After a protracted discussion on the issue of tax exemptions at the GST Council meeting on Friday, the apex federal body decided to form a committee to examine the merits of waivers on individual items.According to its terms of reference, the GoM “will examine the need for GST concession/exemption” on Covid vaccines, drugs and medicines for Covid treatment, testing kits for Covid detection, medical grade oxygen, pulse oximeters, hand sanitisers, oxygen therapy instruments (concentrators, generators and ventilators), PPE kits, N95 masks, surgical masks, thermometers and any other items required for Covid relief.While vaccines and cotton masks attract 5% GST, most of these items fall in the 12% tax slab. Testing kits, drugs, medical oxygen, oxygen concentrators and ventilators fall under the 12% tax bracket. Alcohol-based sanitisers, hand wash gels, disinfectants and thermometers attract 18% GST.The group of ministers was constituted after several member states of the council, such as West Bengal and Punjab asked for exempting GST on all Covid-essential materials.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/centre-forms-8-member-panel-to-examine-gst-exemption-on-covid-material-101622312553228.html
30-05-2021||India||Covid empowered groups reconstituted, oxygen included||The Centre on Saturday reconstituted the empowered groups set up to monitor and coordinate activities and response to contain the spread of Covid-19 in the country by including exclusive groups on oxygen availability, testing, vaccination and emergency response capabilities.Six of the groups are headed by secretaries of the government while three are headed by Niti Aayog members and one by the director general of the Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR).VK Paul, member of the Niti Aayog, is in charge of two key empowered groups – EG1 on India’s emergency management plan and strategy, and EG5 on vaccination.The order issued by Union home secretary Ajay Kumar Bhalla under the Disaster Management Act, 2005, said: “...the situation has been reviewed and a need has been felt to reconstitute the six Empowered Groups into 10 groups in order to cater the current need of Covid-19 management.”Bhalla himself heads EG10 on pandemic response and coordination, which deals with containment measures and guidelines, coordination with the states, legal and administrative aspects and logistics and supply chain management.Originally, immediately after the first nationwide lockdown in March last year, the Centre formed 11 EGs for Covid-19 management, which were reconstituted into six larger groups in September.A new group formed on Saturday – EG2, headed by Union health secretary Rajesh Bhushan -- will exclusively look into emergency response capabilities of the country during a Covid-19 wave. It will primarily address the issues related to availability of general and ICU beds in hospitals; equipments including ventilators; personal protective equipment (PPE), masks, gloves, medicines, etc.The Centre has also formed a separate group on oxygen – EG4, headed by secretary road transport Giridhar Aramane -- which will look into production, import, logistics, plants and conversion of nitrogen into medical oxygen, availability of cryogenic tankers, etc.Significantly, EG5 for vaccination under VK Paul will monitor the procurement, management, import, logistics, daily supply, utilisation and wastage of Covid-19 vaccines across the country. India is currently administering three vaccines – Covishield, Covaxin and Sputnik V (from second week of June).Paul also heads EG1, which monitors disease surveillance, emerging scenarios, global trends and medical protocol.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/covid-empowered-groups-reconstituted-o2-included-101622312433958.html
30-05-2021||India||Covid: Centre stops allocation of Remdesivir to states as supply crunch resolves||The Centre has decided to step out of the state-wise allocation of the antiviral drug Remdesivir used in Covid treatment after its production increased tenfold since April, the government said on Saturday.To address shortages and prevent black-marketing of various drugs used in the treatment of Covid-19, the government had stepped in to allocate these to states as cases of the infection shot up in the second wave.The production capacity has increased from a million doses a month to 10 million, according to Mansukh Mandaviya, minister of state for chemicals and fertilisers. The number of plants manufacturing the drug, the patent for which is held by Gilead Sciences, has increased from 20 to 60 in a month.“Now the country has enough Remdesivir as the supply is much more than the demand,” the minister said in a release. The government has also decided to purchase five million vials and create a stock so that there is no shortage if cases surge again.Also read| Don’t lower guard: Experts warn against Covid 3rd wave in K’takaWhen Covid-19 infections shot up in India in April, there was an acute shortage of the antiviral drug that is used by doctors for treating patients with moderate disease. At the time, Gilead Sciences donated 450,000 doses of the medicine while India was scaling up domestic production.To be sure, the World Health Organisation recommended against the use of the medicine seeing no mortality or any other benefit in November last year. India continues to use the drug, which is part of its clinical management protocol as well.“Initially, it was said to reduce the period of hospitalisation. However, since then several global studies have shown no benefit and many countries have stopped using the drug. In India, we do not have a large randomised control trial but clinicians have seen benefit of the medicine in their patients. So, there is no big centre in the country that is not using the drug in moderate to severe cases,” said Dr Rajesh Chawla, senior pulmonologist at Indraprastha Apollo hospital.The government still controls allocation of other Covid-19 drugs such as Tocilizumab, which is not manufactured in India.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/centre-stops-allocation-of-remdesivir-to-states-as-supply-crunch-resolves-101622312433244.html
30-05-2021||India||LoC truce led to sense of peace: Army chief||Army chief General Manoj Mukund Naravane has said that the restoration of ceasefire in February between Indian and Pakistani militaries along the Line of Control (LoC) in Jammu and Kashmir is holding, has led to a significant drop in infiltration by terrorists from Pakistan and contributed to the overall sense of peace and well-being in border areas.“This is the first step on the long road to normalisation of ties between the two countries. We would like the ceasefire to continue. It has definitely led to an improvement in the security situation and benefited civilians living in forward areas,” Naravane said.In a surprise development, Indian and Pakistani militaries announced on February 25 that they had begun observing a ceasefire along the LoC from the midnight of February 24. India and Pakistan had agreed to a ceasefire on the LoC in November 2003, but it was frequently violated.The army chief said the ceasefire violations by the neighbouring army were aimed at providing cover to infiltrators. No ceasefire violations by the Pakistan army indicated that infiltration attempts were not being supported, Naravane said.“Counterterrorism operations will continue. We have no reason to believe that terror infrastructure along the LoC has been dismantled by the Pakistan army,” Naravane said.Also read: Pakistan fails to prove alleged India role in 2018 China consulate attackPakistan resorted to the highest ever ceasefire violations during the 12 months preceding the joint announcement of the ceasefire in February. According to government data accessed by HT, the Pakistani army violated ceasefire at least a dozen times on average daily between February 2020 and February 2021.Peace along the LoC is mutually beneficial, Naravane said. “The population living on either side suffers due to violence along the LoC. I am sure the Pakistan army is also concerned about the population and hopefully the ceasefire will hold,” the army chief said.After February 24, there has been a solitary instance of cross-border firing along the international border in Jammu sector between the Border Security Force and Pakistan Rangers.Of the 30 terrorists killed by security forces in Kashmir during the last three months, only one was a foreigner, said officials familiar with the developments. “It’s an indicator that infiltration by Pakistani terrorists has dropped notably. We will have to wait and watch how things unfold as three months is a short window to confirm a pattern,” said one of the officials.The escalation in ceasefire violations coincided with the first anniversary of the Centre’s move in August 2019 to strip Jammu and Kashmir of its semi-autonomous status that Islamabad reacted sharply to.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/loc-truce-led-to-sense-of-peace-army-chief-101622312372695.html
30-05-2021||India||Antiguan opposition party hits out at PM Browne, seeks to treat Choksi as citizen||New Delhi: The United Progressive Party (UPP), one of the opposition parties in the Antiguan parliament, has said that prime minister of Antigua and Barbuda Gaston Browne should treat fugitive diamantaire Mehul Choksi as a citizen of the country, according to reports in Antigua Newsroom on Friday.The UPP said that since Choksi was an Antiguan citizen, he was entitled to due process and should be treated according to the rule of law.The statement of key opposition party comes in the wake of Browne saying on Thursday that he asked Dominica to directly send Choksi to India instead of repatriating him to Antigua, where he is now a citizen.Browne responded to the statement of the UPP, saying: “After mischievously accusing my administration of harbouring Mehul Choksi, who has an Interpol Red Notice, they are now seeking to sanitise this fugitive to get campaign funding. My administration’s revocation of Choksi’s citizenship has been frustrated by a litigation brought against the state. We are determined to revoke Choksi’s citizenship and to concurrently pursue his extradition to India to face criminal charges there. There has been no violation of Choksi’s legal and constitution protections, despite the decision of my administration to revoke his citizenship.”Choksi’s lawyers have said that their client enjoys legal and constitutional protection as a citizen.Referring to Browne’s statement, the UPP said: “The statement is both irresponsible and frightening. It is not for the prime minister to decide who is entitled to the protection of the constitution. We are a nation of laws: Every citizen of Antigua and Barbuda is entitled to due process and the rule of law must be respected by all.”“The alleged abduction and beating of Mr Choksi already paints an unflattering picture of the country. Browne’s deliberate attempt to subvert and corrupt the rule of law makes us look even worse,” the UPP was quoted as saying by Antigua Newsroom.Reacting on the development, Choksi’s lawyer Vijay Aggarwal said: “My client is a human being not some pawn that he can be just put in any square in the game of chess as per anybody’s desire or on anybody’s statement. My stand is vindicated and I am filled with gratitude and appreciation seeing the statement of United Progressive Party Antigua, recognising that Antigua ought to protect the rights of every citizen. My client is citizen of Antigua and is entitled to all constitutional protections under Antiguan constitution and is entitled to all remedies available to him under law which he has even successfully availed.”The Eastern Caribbean Supreme Court has ordered that he should not be removed from Dominica, where he was detained by the local police after he went missing from Antigua on Sunday. The court will further hear the matter on Wednesday.Choksi was released from police custody on Friday following the court order and has been moved to a quarantine facility in Roseau.His lawyers have alleged that Indian and Antiguan officials abducted the businessman but Antigua and Barbuda’s commissioner of police Atlee Patrick Rodney denied the charge.Indian officials are in touch with their counterparts in Dominica to make an attempt to bring him back through the deportation route because India has no extradition arrangements with the Caribbean country, people tracking developments said in Delhi.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/antiguan-oppn-party-hits-out-at-pm-browne-seeks-to-treat-choksi-as-citizen-101622312312649.html
30-05-2021||India||Last detainee in Silchar centre released on bail||The last D-voter detainee at the Foreigners’ Detention Centre in Assam’s Silchar Central Jail was released on Saturday after being granted bail by the high court, officials said.Manindra Das, 67, from the Katigorah area of Cachar district, is the 67th detained “doubtful citizen”, also referred to as D-voter (for doubtful or dubious voter on account of not being able to establish Indian citizenship), to be released on bail from the centre since June 2018.Chandradhar Das, 102, was the first D-voter in Assam’s Barak Valley to get bail on medical grounds. Only a few self-declared foreigners, including nationals of Myanmar, Bangladesh, and some African countries are now lodged at the detention centre.Manindra Das, who received a notice from a Foreigners Tribunal in 2015, appeared before it several times but his lawyer died during the process, and he missed some hearings. The court issued an ex parte detention order on May 8, 2019.“We are Indians. We love this land like any other citizen of this country. But now people will look at me in a different way… This entire process is humiliating but I am not going to blame anybody,” a teary-eyed Manindra Das said after his release.Apart from Silchar, there are five other detention centres in Assam where at least 19 people declared as D-voters are under detention, officials said.The Supreme Court cited the Covid-19 pandemic last year and ordered release of all inmates at detention centres, who have stayed there for over two years. The basic criteria for applying for bail earlier was a minimum of three-year detention.Satyendra Baisya, in charge of Silchar Central Jail, said they have had two kinds of detainees, including self-declared foreigners. “…we have deported many of them. The other kind of detainees is doubtful citizens who have cases pending in tribunals.”Baisya said D-voters have often been arrested for missing hearings. “Last year, many of them tested positive for coronavirus, but this year, we have managed to protect them.”After 2019, there have been no new detentions at Silchar centre.The last wish of Chandradhar Das, who died in December, to die as an Indian remained unfulfilled, his family said. Despite having valid documents, he failed to prove his identity. He was arrested in 2018. The trial was delayed in the absence of a government lawyer.His daughter, Niyoti Roy said, “My father was a strong man. He wanted to die as an Indian, but we could not fulfil his last wish. My mother considers Narendra Modi as her God. She says Modi heard her prayers and sent food and medicine during the lockdown. We have voted for Modi’s candidate this year again. My father had the same faith and admiration but in his last days, he faced humiliation without any reason. We are afraid that this can happen to us as well.”Over 20,00,00 people in Bengali-dominated Barak Valley have been left out of the NRC as part of a process to identify and deport undocumented immigrants from Bangladesh. Assam’s NRC Authority has gone to the SC seeking re-verification of the list. The state, too, has said it will approach the courts.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/last-detainee-released-on-bail-from-foreigners-detention-centre-in-silchar-101622292271444.html
30-05-2021||India||India Covid-19 tally adds 1,73,790 fresh cases, lowest in 45 days; 3,617 deaths recorded||India on Saturday recorded 1,73,790 fresh Covid-19 cases, taking the cumulative tally past 27.7 million, as the country recorded less than 200,000 cases for the third time in this month, according to the Union health ministry.The fresh infections of the viral contagion recorded on Saturday are the lowest India has seen in 45 days.In the last 24 hours, at least 3,617 people have died due to coronavirus disease, data updated at 8am showed. A total of 322,512 people have succumbed to the virus in the country, according to the health ministry.Active cases in the country dipped to 2,228,724 on Saturday, accounting for 8.50 of the total infections in the country. A total of 25,178,011 people have recuperated from the disease, taking India's recovery rate to 90.3.Official data states that the recoveries from the viral infection continue to outnumber the daily new cases for 16 days in a row. The recovery rate settled at 90.34% a day earlier. The weekly positivity rate for the country is logged at 9.84%, the union health ministry said.After witnessing its worst-ever crisis in health in the history of independent India, the country is on a downswing of the second wave of Covid-19 as the daily cases and deaths have started to reduce, officials said on Friday.“We are on a downswing of the second wave of Covid-19 and believe that it will be sustained even when restrictions are significantly relaxed,” the ministry said.“A steady decline in new Covid-19 cases has been recorded in India for the last 20 days. Twenty-four states have also reported a decline in active Covid-19 cases since the last week,” it said.According to the Indian Council of Medical Research, a total of 20,80,048 tests were conducted in the last 24 hours in the country and cumulatively 3,41,119,909 tests have been done so far.The Union health ministry sad that nearly 20,89,02,445 vaccine doses were administered so far under the nationwide vaccination drive.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/india-covid-19-tally-adds-1-73-790-fresh-cases-lowest-in-45-days-3-617-deaths-recorded-101622255352294.html
