31-05-2021||India||'Kappa' and 'Delta': WHO gives names to Covid-19 variants found in India||The World Health Organization (WHO) on Monday announced news labels, using Greek alphabets, for various variants of the coronavirus disease (Covid-19), also giving names to the two variants that have been found in India thus far.Click here for latest Covid-19 updates"Labelled using Greek alphabets, WHO announces new labels for Covid variants of concern (VOC) and interest (VOI)," news agency ANI quoted the world health body as saying. "Covid variant first found in India will be referred to as Delta, while earlier found variant in the country will be known as Kappa," WHO further said.According to WHO, the B.1.617.1 variant has been designated as "Kappa" while the B1.617.2 variant has been dubbed "Delta." The earliest samples from both the variants from both the variants were documented in October 2020, it said.The labels, said WHO's technical Covid-19 lead Dr Maria Van Kerkhove, don't replace existing scientific names, which, she said, convey important scientific information and will continue to be used in research. "No country should be stigmatised for detecting and reporting Covid variants," Dr Kerkhove said further.The labels don’t replace existing scientific names, which convey important scientific information and will continue to be used in research. No country should be stigmatized for detecting and reporting Covid variants: Dr Maria Van Kerkhove, Technical lead COVID-19 at WHO pic.twitter.com/odcQW4J3KfThe B1.617.2 or "Delta" variant, reports of whose unofficial nomenclature after India were dismissed by the central government, is seen as the cause behind the devastating second Covid-19 wave in the country.Also Read | WHO has not termed B.1.617 as Indian variant, says CentreAt the peak of the second wave, in April, India reported more than 100,000 Covid-19 cases in a day for the first time, and also went on to see more than 400,000 cases in a single-day, as well as more than or close to 4,000 related fatalities daily. However, in the last few days, the number of fresh infections have fallen below the 200,000-mark.Also Read | Covid mutation in India 'variant of concern', says WHOIn the last 24 hours, India's infection tally rose by 152,734 cases, while the death toll increased by 3,128 fatalities, according to the Union ministry of health and family welfare (MoHFW) dashboard at 8am on Monday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/kappa-and-delta-who-gives-names-to-covid-19-variants-found-in-india-101622480118530.html
31-05-2021||India||Centre imposes ban on import of 108 defence items to boost self-reliance||To promote self-reliance in the defence sector, the central government on Monday notified a list of 108 defence items that cannot be imported by the armed forces with the ban kicking off from December. The ‘positive indigenisation list’, will be implemented progressively from December 2021 to December 2025, the defence ministry said in a statement.“This will give further boost to indigenisation with active participation of public and private sector for fulfilling the twin objectives of achieving self-reliance and promoting defence exports. All the 108 items will now be procured from indigenous sources as per provisions given in Defence Acquisition Procedure (DAP) 2020,” the statement said.This is the second such list to be notified by the government in less than a year.In August 2020, the government prepared a list of 101 items on which there would be an embargo on import to give a push to Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s ‘Atmanirbhar Bharat Abhiyan’ (self-reliant India movement). The embargo for items in the first list, then called ‘negative import list’, kicks in for different items between 2020 and 2025.The second list consists of several military systems including specified types of helicopters, next-generation corvettes, airborne early warning and control (AEW&C) systems, tank engines, medium power radar for mountains, medium-range surface to air missile systems and anti-material rifles, the ministry said in a statement. The first list included artillery guns, missile destroyers, ship-borne cruise missiles, light combat aircraft, light transport aircraft, long-range land-attack cruise missiles, communication satellites, basic trainer aircraft, multi-barrel rocket launchers, a variety of radars, assault rifles, sniper rifles, mini-UAVs and different types of ammunition.The second list lays special focus on weapons/systems which are currently under development/trials and are likely to translate into firm orders in the future, the ministry said on Monday. Like the first list, import substitution of ammunition, which is a recurring requirement, has been given special focus, it added.India has set aside ₹70,221 crore this year for domestic defence procurement, accounting for 63% of the military’s capital budget. Last year, the ministry spent over ₹51,000 crore, or 58% of the capital budget, on domestic purchases.From raising foreign direct investment (FDI) in defence manufacturing to creating a separate budget for buying locally made military hardware and notifying a list of weapons/equipment that cannot be imported, the government announced a raft of measures to boost self-reliance in the defence sector in May 2020.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/centre-imposes-ban-on-import-of-108-defence-items-to-boost-selfreliance-101622481950005.html
31-05-2021||India||Tamil Nadu left with Covid-19 vaccine stock for 2 more days||Tamil Nadu has Covid-19 vaccine stock remaining only for two more days, health officials told media on Monday. The vaccination drive in the state will be on hold unless the Centre either supplies 1.74 doses that are pending in this month’s (May) allocation or when the first consignment for June’s allocation arrives on the 6th.“We have directed officials in Chennai and other districts to complete administering of whatever vaccines are left. We will have to stop when there is zero stock and we can only restart when we get the next supply,” health secretary J Radhakrishnan said.As of Monday morning, after wastage, Tamil Nadu had around 4.93 lakh doses of Covid-19 vaccines in stock. Out of this, 2.69 lakh doses are for the 18-45 age group and 2.24 lakh doses are for above those above 45 years of age.The state has informed the Centre of the shortage. “The Union government has allocated 20.43 doses for May and we have received 18.68 lakh doses,” Radhakrishnan said.“As of Monday, we are yet to receive a balance of 1.74 lakh doses from the allotment for May. We are not sure when will it reach Tamil Nadu, whether it is tomorrow or the day after. They (Centre) have said that they will inform us in a couple of days. If we receive this soon we will be able to continue vaccinating,” he said.For June, the Union government on Monday informed the state that 42.58 lakh doses will be allocated. “The only catch in this is that the first consignment in this allotment will reach Tamil Nadu only by June 6. The next supply will reach by June 9,” Radhakrishnan said, adding that due to supply issues across the country they can only make allotments step-by step despite doubling the allocation for Tamil Nadu. 3-lakh doses are expected to arrive on June 6.Tamil Nadu has received 96.18 lakh doses of the Covid-19 vaccine till date which has been used to vaccinate 87.70 lakh people across age groups until May 30 night.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/tamil-nadu-left-with-covid-19-vaccine-stock-for-2-more-days-101622481889930.html
31-05-2021||India||Over 21 crore vaccine doses administered in India so far: Health ministry||The cumulative number of Covid-19 vaccine doses administered in the country exceeded 21.58 crores as on Monday, according to the provisional report by the Ministry of Health and Family Welfare.As many as 12,23,596 beneficiaries of the age group 18-44 years received their first dose and 13,402 beneficiaries of the same age group received their second dose of Covid vaccine today, the ministry informed.A total of 21,58,18,547 including 98,83,778 Healthcare Workers (HCWs) have received their 1st dose, and 67,87,633 HCWs have received the 2nd dose. While 1,56,67,311 Frontline Workers (FLWs) got their first dose, and 85,21,965 FLWs got their second dose of the vaccination.Cumulatively, 2,02,10,889 persons across 37 states and Union Territories have received their first dose and a total of 23,491 persons have received their second dose since the start of Phase-3 of the vaccination drive.According to the ministry, Bihar, Delhi, Gujarat, Haryana, Karnataka, Madhya Pradesh, Maharashtra, Rajasthan, Tamil Nadu, Uttar Pradesh and West Bengal have administered more than 10 lakh beneficiaries of the age group 18-44 years for the first dose of Covid vaccine.For the 18-44 age group, 2,02,10,889 received their first vaccine shot, and 23,491 got their second dose. And the category of over 45 to 60 years, 6,64,02,012 were administered with their first dose, while 1,07,15,693 got their second, the health ministry said.5,88,31,736 of the above 60 years category got their first dose, and 1,87,74,039 were given their second dose so far.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/over-21-crore-vaccine-doses-administered-in-india-so-far-health-ministry-101622481009929.html
31-05-2021||India||'Woman in question part of team that abducted Mehul Choksi', claims his lawyer||Fugitive businessman Mehul Choksi's lawyer has contested the remarks made by Antigua and Barbuda’s Prime Minister Gaston Browne who said that the diamantaire may have taken his girlfriend to Dominica on a romantic trip and got caught.In a statement, Choksi's lawyer Vijay Aggarwal alleged that the woman in question was part of the team deployed to abduct him. Aggarwal said that the woman "got friendly with the whole family" and later shifted to a house near Choksi's residence in Antigua.Aggarwal further claimed in the statement that the woman invited Choksi to her house for a short while and there other members of the team deployed to pick the businessman. "They grabbed him and threw him in a yacht and took him to Dominica."The lawyer's statement also said that since the woman has vanished, Choksi's stand that he was kidnapped is valid.Gaston Browne had earlier told local media that India has sent a private jet to get Mehul Choksi repatriated directly from Dominica. Choksi has Antiguan citizenship and has been living there since he fled India after being named in a financial scam.A Bombardier Global 5,000 jet of Qatar Executive had mysteriously landed at Dominica’s Douglas Charles airport on Saturday. It’s publicly accessible flight path shows that it took off from New Delhi on May 28 and reached Dominica via Madrid.PM Browne, who has been vocal about not accepting Choksi back in his country, where he is a citizen, said, “My understanding is that [the] Indian government has sent certain documentation from courts in India to confirm that Choksi is indeed a fugitive”. These documents, Browne added, will be utilised in the court case in Dominica, where a judge is hearing the matter and has put a stay on repatriation till Wednesday.The latest development comes shortly after Choksi's first picture emerged in three years, showing him behind bars and with injuries on his hands and a swollen and bruised left eye. The pictures were released by the Antigua Newsroom. His lawyers have alleged abduction attempt from Jolly Harbour in Antigua and Barbuda by Indian and Antiguan officials.Also Read: Mehul Choksi tests negative for Covid-19, admitted to hospital, say reportsAfter Choksi mysteriously disappeared from Antigua last Sunday, a political storm was sparked in Antigua where he is a citizen.Choksi and his nephew Nirav Modi are wanted in India for allegedly siphoning off ₹13,500 crore of public money from the state-run Punjab National Bank (PNB) using letters of undertaking.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/woman-in-question-part-of-team-that-abducted-mehul-choksi-claims-his-lawyer-101622477500056.html
31-05-2021||India||News updates from HT: Doctors' association calls for 'Black Day' to protest Ramdev's remarks and all the latest news||Here are today’s top news, analysis and opinion. Know all about the latest news and other news updates from Hindustan Times.Doctors' association gives call for 'Black Day' on June 1 to protest Baba Ramdev’s remarksA doctors' association has given a call for nationwide protest against the remarks made by yoga guru Baba Ramdev. The Federation of resident doctors' association (FORDA) issued a release in which it said that June 1 will be observed as 'Black Day'. Read moreKohli, Pant, Bumrah begin training, sweat it out at gym ahead of England tourVirat Kohli-led Team India are currently under quarantine in Mumbai ahead of their departure to the UK for the Championship (WTC) final against Kane Williamson's New Zealand and a five-match Test series against England. Read moreRecipe: Not in mood for a big meal? Stay full with creamy broccoli cheese soupRains are here to stay and to feel safe and warm on a cold wet night, all we really need is soup to hug us like a warm blanket which is why we are whipping up some creamy broccoli cheese soup tonight. Read moreBride and groom play 'bottle flip' during wedding, netizens love their chemistryWeddings can sometimes go on for a long duration. And while the guests can keep busy by watching the couple, eating the delicious food, and meeting and greeting each other, the couple doesn’t quite have all these options. So this couple found a way to pass some time - by playing 'bottle flip'. Read morePM Modi Vs CM Mamata over Bengal Chief Secretary: Who holds the moral high?PM Modi and CM Mamata have locked horns again, this time over the sudden transfer of West Bengal Chief Secretary Alapan Bandyopadhyay. Watch here||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/news-updates-from-ht-doctors-association-calls-for-black-day-on-june-1-to-protest-baba-ramdev-s-remarks-and-all-the-latest-news-101622474380238.html
31-05-2021||India||2.79 mn Sputnik V Covid-19 vaccine to reach India tonight, 5 mn more in June||The first large consignment of millions of doses of Russia’s Sputnik V Covid-19 vaccine is set to reach India on Monday. The developers of the jab are expected to supply a total of 18 million doses over the next two months.The Russian side has supplied 210,000 doses in two batches to India and the remainder of the total of three million doses expected in May is set to reach the country late on Monday, people familiar with developments said on condition of anonymity. A majority of these three million doses are being provided in bulk and will be “filled and finished” in India. This will be followed by bulk exports of five million doses in June and another 10 million doses in July, the people said.Sputnik V, which gives 91.4% protection against Covid-19, became the third Coronavirus disease (Covid-19) vaccine to be granted emergency use authorisation by India in April. The vaccine’s Russian developers have tied up with Dr Reddy’s Laboratories for the distribution of doses in India. They have signed agreements with several firms to manufacture up to 850 million doses a year.The Russian Direct Investment Fund (RDIF) or Russia’s sovereign wealth fund and Panacea Biotec recently announced that full-scale production of the vaccine in India following the transfer of technology will start this summer. The people cited above said the two sides are looking at beginning the production in India by August. The first batch of vaccines produced at Panacea Biotec’s facilities at Baddi in Himachal Pradesh will be shipped to Gamaleya Center in Russia for quality control checks before full-scale production starts. India’s envoy to Russia, DB Venkatesh Varma, said recently that almost 70% of all doses of Sputnik V produced around the world will be made in India. The Russian side has also sought regulatory approvals for Sputnik Light, a single dose variant of the vaccine, though all the procedures are yet to be completed.Sputnik Light has shown 79.4% efficacy, according to data gathered after the single shot was administered as part of Russia’s mass vaccination programme between December 2020 and April 2021.However, plans drawn up by the Russian developers of the vaccine to export a majority of the vaccines manufactured in India are expected to be shelved because of the huge demand within the country following a devastating second wave of Covid-19 infections and a severe shortage of jabs, the people cited above said. With India temporarily halting all vaccine exports last month to speed up the domestic immunisation drive, further supplies of doses to other countries are unlikely to resume till the end of the year, the people said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/279-mn-sputnik-v-covid-19-vaccine-to-reach-india-tonight-5-mn-more-in-june-101622474509572.html
31-05-2021||India||AIADMK leader K Palaniswami urges PM Modi to increase Amphotericin supply to TN||Anti-fungal drug Amphotericin is in short supply and its allotment to Tamil Nadu should be increased, Leader of Opposition and top AIADMK leader K Palaniswami requested the Centre on Monday. Referring to the incidence of black fungus in Tamil Nadu, Palaniswami, in a letter to Prime Minister Narendra Modi, said mucormycosis was spreading rapidly all over the state. Amphotericin injection, used to treat the infection, is in short supply, he said and requested Modi to increase its allotment to enable the affected people to get access to life saving treatment. The former Chief Minister expressed his gratitude to Modi for immediately looking into the Covid-19 related requirements of Tamil Nadu and increasing allotment of vaccines, oxygen and anti-viral Remdesivir.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/aiadmk-leader-k-palaniswami-urges-pm-modi-to-increase-amphotericin-supply-to-tn-101622472104105.html
31-05-2021||India||BJP chief JP Nadda, minister Anurag Thakur send oxygen concentrators and medical supply to Himachal Pradesh||Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) president Jagat Prakash Nadda, minister of state for finance Anurag Thakur and Himachal Pradesh chief minister Jairam Thakur on Monday laid the foundation stones for two oxygen plants for the state. The oxygen plants of 140 LPM each are being set up in Hamirpur and Bilaspur.They also flagged off 108 oxygen concentrators, 160 oxygen cylinders that will cater to over 330 hospital beds as part of Covid relief today.“I express my sincere gratitude to Sh JP Nadda Ji for laying the foundation for 2 Oxygen Plants for Hamirpur & Bilaspur and for flagging off oxygen equipments that will cater to over 330 hospital beds as part of COVID relief today. I am working to transform my parliamentary constituency into an Oxygen Bank, all these resources are aimed in that direction. We will set up a total of 3 Oxygen generation plants, along with providing 300 Oxygen Concentrators and 200 oxygen cylinders which will cater to 700 beds providing a robust supply of O2. Earlier we had dispatched 17 Asptal Mobile Medical Units carrying COVID relief materials for 12 districts in Himachal Pradesh. My endeavour has been to strengthen relief efforts in Himachal by providing timely resources to help save lives. I would like to highlight and applaud CM Himachal Pradesh Sh Jairam Thakur ji has ensured these COVID relief medical equipments and resources along with all the central assistance on this front are swiftly allocated to their intended beneficiaries,” Union minister Anurag Thakur said.Speaking on the occasion, Jairam Thakur said, “Himachal Pradesh is fighting COVID with determination and has relentlessly received support from Sh Anurag Thakur. He had sent a large consignment of COVID relief supplies a few weeks ago and together we have ensured the state is fully equipped in its fight against COVID. Himachal Government is providing the best possible facilities towards treatment of COVID patients and started the Himachal COVID Care Mobile App. The state is amongst the top in India vis-vis vaccination drive.”“I congratulate Sh Anurag Thakur for strengthening the COVID relief efforts and providing resources to Himachal Pradesh through the pandemic period. A few weeks ago we had flagged of 17 Asptal Mobile Medical Units carrying COVID relief materials for 12 districts in Himachal Pradesh. Today we are laying the foundation for 2 PSA Oxygen Plants of 140 LPM each for Hamirpur & Bilaspur and also flagging off - 108 Oxygen Concentrators, 160 Oxygen Cylinders that will cater to over 330 hospital beds as part of our continuing COVID relief efforts. The BJP and its karyakartas across the country are engaged in these efforts under the mantra of ‘Seva hi Sangathan’. Everyone in their capacity is coming forward to provide assistance; we must continue this and ensure all our relief materials reach their intended beneficiaries in Himachal Pradesh,” said the BJP chief.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/bjp-chief-jp-nadda-minister-anurag-thakur-send-oxygen-concentrators-and-medical-supply-to-himachal-101622471330024.html
31-05-2021||India||‘Unite. Centre trying to absolve itself’: Vijayan to 11 non-NDA CMs on vaccine||Kerala chief minister Pinarayi Vijayan on Monday wrote to his counterparts in 11 states ruled by non-NDA parties to urge them to put up a joint effort to nudge the central government to procure the vaccines and distribute them free of cost.“It is important that vaccines should be provided free of cost considering it as a public good, the access to which shall be denied to none due to lack of financial wherewithal,” his letter said, underscoring that if the burden to procure the vaccine is left entirely on states, their fiscal situation will be affected.“When the nation is passing through the second surge, it is unfortunate the Centre is absolving itself of its bounden duty to provide adequate supply of vaccine. The impact of the second surge has been unprecedented, putting all of us in a state of alarm. Experts have warned about a third wave also. This necessitates our heightened preparation and vigil to meet that eventuality too,” he said.Vijayan sent the letters to chief ministers of Tamil Nadu, Telangana, Andhra Pradesh, Maharashtra, Odisha, West Bengal, Rajasthan, Chattisgarh, Jharkhand, Delhi and Punjab.His letter comes against the backdrop of the Supreme Court’s sharp observation that there should be only one price for Covid-19 vaccines across the nation. “In a national crisis, the central government should procure vaccines for the entire country. States are left in a lurch. You should tell them that we will negotiate globally and procure vaccines for them so that there is clarity,” a three-member bench of justice DY Chandrachud, justice LN Rao and justice S Ravindra Bhat told Solicitor General Tushar Mehta on Monday. The Centre had announced a three-tier price structure for vaccines produced in the country. that gave it access to vaccines for ₹150 but others - states and hospitals - have to pay up to ₹1,200 for Covaxin.“It is learnt that the Union government has taken a stand that the states should resort to their own measures to procure vaccines. The supply of the vaccine is scarce as compared to the demand for the same,” he said, underscoring that states have to scale up the number of people who have received vaccination since herd immunity will be effective if only a substantial chunk of the population is vaccinated.As on date, only 3.1% of the people have been administered two doses of Covid-19 vaccine. Vaccine manufacturing companies are “looking for financial gains by exploiting the scarce supply situation” and foreign companies are unwilling to enter into agreements with states for procurement.The chief minister also pointed out that the state had placed an order for 10 million vaccines last month but received only 8.84 lakh doses. Chief minister Vijayan has written four letters to seek vaccines and oxygen after assuming power for the second time.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/centre-is-absolving-itself-of-duty-kerala-s-vijayan-to-11-non-nda-cms-101622469469228.html
31-05-2021||India||Doctors' association gives call for 'Black Day' on June 1 to protest Baba Ramdev’s remarks||A doctors' association has given a call for nationwide protest against the remarks made by yoga guru Baba Ramdev. The Federation of resident doctors' association (FORDA) issued a release in which it said that June 1 will be observed as 'Black Day'.The call has been given to condemn the “derogatory and distasteful statements” made by Baba Ramdev, FORDA said. It added that patient care will not be hampered by the day-long protest.The India Medical Association (IMA) strongly objected to Ramdev's statement, made last week, and demanded action against him.“It is stated that the accused being a businessman, in order to take advantage of the present situation and his large public following, is wilfully and deliberately advancing dishonest representations… about allopathy and modern medicine… and to swindle them into parting with their monies by taking Swami Ramdev’s unapproved and dubious drugs,” the IMA said in a 14-page complaint sent to the Centre.The war of words started after Ramdev called allopathy a “stupid science” in an interview. IMA criticised the yoga guru and asked for an unconditional apology, which Ramdev had to furnish on Sunday after being cautioned by the Union health minister."IMA brings to the notice of our Health Minister, a video circulating in social media portraying, the celebrated Yoga Guruji saying that 'modern allopathy ek aisi stupid aur diwaliya science hai' (modern allopathy is a stupid and failed science)," the association had said in its statement.On Wednesday last week, IMA asked PM Modi to take strict action against Ramdev for spreading misinformation about vaccines due to which ASHA workers tasked with immunizing people have been attacked by people who have fallen for his claims, reported PTI.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/doctors-association-gives-call-for-black-day-on-june-1-to-protest-baba-ramdev-s-remarks-101622468601542.html
31-05-2021||India||Covid-19: Lakshadweep administration extends complete shutdown by a week||The Lakshadweep administration on Monday announced extension of the complete shutdown for seven more days, beginning May 31, considering the rising number of Covid-19 cases in the islands. The complete shutdown was first announced on May 24 for a week. Lakshadweep District Collector S Asker Ali, in an order, also announced a night curfew in five islands, including Kiltan and Chetlath. He said the present situation made it necessary to regulate movement of people, enhance testing capacity, ensure strict enforcement of prescribed containment strategies, focus on surveillance and strict observance of standard Covid-19 protocol to prevent further spread of the virus as per the latest guidelines of the Ministry of Home Affairs. Many essential services, including water supply, fire, electricity, police, health, disaster management, shipping, guest house, BSNL, people managing Covid-19, Indian Navy and Coast Guard have been exempted from the shutdown on production of ID-card with Covid negative test report, the order said. "Non-compliance will be taken seriously by the authority and appropriate actions will be taken as per the relevant sections of the Disaster Management Act-2015 and Indian Penal Code," it said. According to officials, there are 2,006 active cases in the islands. The Test Positivity Rate was comparatively high in Kavaratti, Kalpeni, Androth, Amini and Minicoy, they said. Authorities said the 'corona curfew' enforced in all islands with different timings and exemptions has become an effective tool in the overall containment strategy. Last week, the Kerala High Court had dismissed a plea challenging a single bench order in which the court accepted the Lakshadweep administration's contentions in support of the revision of Standard Operation Procedure (SOP) in connection with the Covid-19 management in the islands. The single bench had dismissed a plea challenging the revised SOP issued on December 22 last year, which substituted the earlier mandatory institutional and home quarantine of all persons travelling to the island, with just a negative test report of RT-PCR, obtained 48 hours before the travel.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/covid19-lakshadweep-administration-extends-complete-shutdown-by-a-week-101622462117874.html
31-05-2021||India||UP govt relaxes Covid curfew in 6 more districts: What's open, what's not||The Uttar Pradesh government on Monday extended the relaxations announced in the coronavirus curfew to six more districts from June 1, allowing shops and markets outside the containment zones to open for five days a week. With this, 61 districts (out of 75) in the state are now out of Covid-19 curbs.The relaxations were announced on Sunday, in districts which have less than 600 cases of the coronavirus disease (Covid-19). The districts added in the list on Monday are: Sonbhadra, Deoria, Baghpat, Prayagraj, Bijnore and Moradabad.After the latest order, there are 14 districts in Uttar Pradesh where there would be no relaxations. There are: Meerut, Lucknow, Saharanpur, Varanasi, Ghaziabad, Gorakhpur, Muzaffarnagar, Bareilly, Gautam Buddh Nagar, Bulandshahr, Jhansi, Lakhimpur-Khiri, Jaunpur and Ghazipur.Here's what will open and what won't after restrictions are lifted:||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/up-govt-relaxes-covid-curfew-in-6-more-districts-what-s-open-what-s-not-101622463380954.html
31-05-2021||India||Monsoon progress slow but IMD hopeful that it will reach Kerala on June 3||The onset of monsoon over Kerala is likely to take place around June 3, India Meteorological Department (IMD) said on Monday, adding that monsoon presently was crossing Sri Lanka and had been there for two days. As per the latest meteorological indications, the southwesterly winds could strengthen gradually from June 1, resulting in an increase in rainfall over Kerala.“It has been raining over Kerala but we cannot announce monsoon onset until all parameters are met. They are likely to be met in the next couple of days. We are monitoring continuously,” M Mohapatra, director general, IMD said.“Monsoon is now over Sri Lanka. The very next point will be Kerala. Rains had reduced over Kerala in the past two days. Westerly winds are picking up now,” added DS Pai, scientist and head of climate research services at IMD Pune.Also Read | Delhi weather: Expect thunderstorm, rain today“@Indiametdept will never manipulate data or make statements to justify their forecasts. They admit forecast failures with humility. In weather & monsoon forecasts, no one can be perfect. We are also accountable to Indian tax payers. We show respect to our country,” M Rajeevan, secretary, ministry of earth sciences tweeted on Monday referring to the lag in monsoon onset compared to IMD’s forecast. IMD said on May 28 that the onset of monsoon was likely over Kerala on June 31, a day ahead of its normal date. IMD in its monsoon forecast on May 14 also predicted that monsoon is likely to arrive over Kerala on May 31 with a possible error margin of plus/minus four days. After Very Severe Cyclone Yaas weakened, scientists had said that the cyclone over Bay of Bengal had helped strengthen monsoon winds. But the monsoon’s progress slowed from May 29.“Probably we need to consider exceptional cases when cyclones occur very close to the monsoon onset, interacting with the monsoon? In such cases, a classical onset may not happen as we expect,” tweeted Roxy Mathew Koll, climate scientist, Indian Institute of Tropical Meteorology.According to IMD’s monsoon onset parameters, after May 10, 60% of the available 14 stations enlisted--Minicoy, Amini, Thiruvananthapuram, Punalur, Kollam, Allapuzha, Kottayam, Kochi, Thrissur, Kozhikode, Thalassery, Kannur, Kudulu and Mangalore should report rainfall of 2.5mm or more for two consecutive days, depth of westerlies should be maintained upto 600hPa; outgoing longwave radiation (OLR) value should be below 200wm-2 ( watt per sq metre).OLR represents the total radiation going to space emitted by the atmosphere or extent of cloudiness.Southwest monsoon normally sets in over Kerala around June 1. It advances northwards, usually in surges, and covers the entire country around July 5.Skymet Weather, a private weather forecasting company, however, announced the onset of monsoon on Sunday--May 30, two days ahead of normal monsoon onset date of June 1.A cyclonic circulation over eastcentral Arabian Sea off the Karnataka coast is likely to meander over the region during the next four days. Southwesterly winds are also likely to strengthen during the next 2-3 days. Under the influence of these and other favourable meteorological conditions; scattered to fairly widespread rainfall/thunderstorm activity is likely over Karnataka and Kerala and Mahe, and isolated to scattered rainfall/thunderstorm over remaining parts of south peninsular India during the next 4-5 days.Moderate to extremely heavy rain was recorded over many parts of east and northeast India including East Garo Hills (32cm); Bhalukpong (13cm); Lakhimpur (11cm); Jamshedpur (17cm); Pollur, Tikrikilla, Dhemaji, Kolar (9cm); Barpeta (8cm); Uthiramerur, Dharamsthla, Vellore, Matheran, Shanti Niketan, Itanagar, Cherrapunji, Kokrajhar, Nongstoin (7cm) each. Extremely heavy rainfall (over 20cm) was recorded at isolated places over Assam and Meghalaya; heavy to very heavy rainfall at isolated places over Jharkhand and Arunachal Pradesh and heavy rainfall over Gangetic West Bengal, north Konkan, coastal and south Interior Karnataka, Tamil Nadu, Puducherry and Karaikal.A western disturbance, as a trough in mid and upper tropospheric westerlies, is affecting the Western Himalayas. There is lower level moisture incursion from north Arabian Sea to the plains of northwest India and is very likely to continue during next 3-4 days. Under its influence, no significant change in maximum temperatures is likely during next 3 days. Scattered rainfall/thunderstorm activity is likely over the Western Himalayan region and adjoining plains of northwest India during next three days.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/monsoon-progress-slow-but-imd-hopeful-that-it-will-reach-kerala-on-june-3-101622462989610.html
31-05-2021||India||UP govt's massive Covid-19 vaccination drive begins from June 1, EWS category people to also be inoculated||The Uttar Pradesh government is launching a massive vaccination drive from June 1 to inoculate 10 million people against the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) in a month. Chief minister Yogi Adityanath has also given instructions to the state government officials to ensure that all the sections of the society receive a vaccine shot under 'Mission June'.The drive will be conducted in all 75 districts of the state to safeguard its people from the raging wave of Covid-19.“Our goal is to give shots to one crore people in the month of June. We have a sufficient amount of vaccine vials available to meet our target,” said the Chief Minister while addressing a high-level meeting on Monday. He also instructed the health officials to stay in constant touch with the Centre and vaccine manufacturing companies.The campaign will focus on beneficiaries of both the age groups: 18+ and those above the age of 45.The chief minister also announced a special vaccination drive for socially and economically weaker sections like drivers, vendors, and rickshaw pullers from June 15.In order to meet the target, officials in the Uttar Pradesh government say that 6,000 vaccination centres will be set up across the state.Special camps will also be set up for journalists, government employees and members of the judiciary, officials said. For this, four workplace vaccination centres will be established in each district - one for the district court, two for government employees and one for the media personnel.The state government has announced relaxations in districts which have less than 600 active cases of Covid-19. On Monday, the number of such districts was increased from 55 to 61.A UP government spokesperson said on Monday that Sonbhadra, Deoria, Baghpat, Prayagraj, Bijnore and Moradabad were added to the earlier list due to declining number of active cases in these districts.However, there 14 districts where no relaxation has been permitted by the government. These are: Meerut, Lucknow, Saharanpur, Varanasi, Ghaziabad, Gorakhpur, Muzaffarnagar, Bareilly, Gautam Buddh Nagar, Bulandshahr, Jhansi, Lakhimpur-Khiri, Jaunpur and Ghazipur.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/up-to-inoculate-1-crore-people-in-june-drive-begins-from-tuesday-101622461354908.html
31-05-2021||India||Govt allows more withdrawal from EPFO due to Covid||The Employees’ Provident Fund Organisation (EPFO), the state-run pension fund manager, has permitted contributors to withdraw a non-refundable Covid-19 advance from their savings, the second time the EPFO has allowed such a relief measure due to the ongoing pandemic, an official statement said. The move to allow special withdrawals during the pandemic, which has led to financial distress, was first introduced in March 2020 under Pradhan Mantri Garib Kalyan Yojana (PMGKY), a Covid-19 aid package. Also Read | New rule for PF account holders to come into force from June 1“Under this provision, a non-refundable withdrawal to the extent of the basic wages and dearness allowances for three months or up to 75% of the amount standing to member’s credit in the EPF account, whichever is less, is provided. Members can apply for lesser amount also,” the statement released on Monday said. To process claims, the EPFO has deployed a “system driven auto-claim settlement process”. EPFO members whose “know your customer” requirements are complete can immediatelt apply for the withdrawals. Auto-mode of settlement enables the EPFO to reduce the claim settlement cycle to just three days as against the statutory requirement to settle the claims within 20 days, an official said. The facility is especially targeted for those having monthly wages of less than ₹15,000. Official figures show, cumulatively, the EPFO has settled more than 7.63 million Covid-19 advance claims, disbursing ₹18,698.15 crore in all since the facility was made available. “High advance claims and amounts suggests even employed people were highly distressed by increasing costs, mainly because of Covid-19 treatments and inflation,” said Piyush Baxi, an economist with the State Labour Institute, Bhubaneshwar.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/govt-allows-more-withdrawal-from-epfo-due-to-covid-101622460768777.html
31-05-2021||India||News updates from HT: Juhi Chawla files plea in Delhi HC against 5G technology and all the latest news||Here are today’s top news, analysis, and opinion. Know all about the latest news and other news updates from Hindustan Times.Actor Juhi Chawla files plea in Delhi HC against implementation of 5G technology, hearing on June 2Actor Juhi Chawla on Monday moved the Delhi high court against implementation of 5G wireless network technology in India, raising issues related to the radiation impact on citizens, animals, flora and fauna. Read moreNational Conference reconsidering boycott of delimitation commission meetingsJammu and Kashmir National Conference party is reconsidering its earlier decision not to participate in the meetings of Delimitation Commission, which is tasked with redrawing parliamentary and assembly segments of the union territory, said senior functionaries. Read moreKejriwal working to get people of Delhi vaccinated, but BJP abusing him: SisodiaDelhi's deputy chief minister Manish Sisodia on Monday said that Aam Aadmi Party (AAP)-led government is ensuring that all the people in the national capital are vaccinated against the coronavirus disease (Covid-19). Read moreNew rule for PF account holders to come into force from June 1Employees' Provident Fund Organization (EPFO) has made some changes in their rules for Provident Fund (PF) account holders which are set to come into force from June 1, 2021. Read moreAfter 100 years remembering, last survivors mark race massacre in TulsaLessie Benningfield Randle, 106, can still remember a house engulfed in flames and the bodies stacked in truckbeds, one hundred years later. "I was quite a little kid but I remember running and the soldiers were coming in," Randle said in an interview with Reuters as her hometown of Tulsa prepared to mark one of the darkest chapters in its history. Read more'Won't stop us from completing this edition of IPL': BCCI vice-president on overseas players not being availableThe remaining matches of the Indian Premier League 2021 have officially been moved to the UAE, as BCCI announced last week. But there are various other questions still to be answered - starting from the fact when is the remainder of the tournament be fit into the schedule? Read moreKamaal R Khan calls Salman Khan ‘gunda’: ‘I promise to destroy your career and make you TV actor’Actor Kamaal R Khan, in a new tweet that seemed to be addressed to actor Salman Khan, asked him to fight his own battles instead of hiding behind ‘chirkut singer’ and ‘struggling actress’. KRK reiterated his vow to destroy Salman’s career. Read moreRakul Preet backs Yog Nidra for post Covid recovery, treating pandemic anxietyAdults, care providers and people with underlying health conditions are suffering from a considerable degree of fear, worry and concern as coronavirus continues to sweep across the world and the constant monitoring of news and social media feeds has led to fueling anxiety rather than easing it. Read moreWatch| Security forces destroy IED in controlled explosion in J&K’s Pulwama﻿||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/news-updates-from-ht-juhi-chawla-files-plea-in-delhi-hc-against-5g-technology-101622459075491.html
31-05-2021||India||Assam village manages to avoid Covid-19 with strict safety measures||Life in Kawoimari Gohain gaon in Assam’s Jorhat district hasn’t been the same in over a year now, courtesy the pandemic. But unlike in many other districts across the country, it hasn’t all been bad news here. The village, located around 35 km from the district headquarters, hasn’t reported a single Covid-19 case since the pandemic started early last year. Safety measures strictly enforced by the villagers are stated to be the reason for this. Spread over around 4 sq km, residents of the village were originally from Nematighat close to the Brahmaputra River. But large-scale erosion of the river’s banks following the big earthquake of 1950 forced people to move to the new location and set up Kawoimari Gohain gaon. “Our village has around 400 families and a total population of nearly 2,000. We have managed to escape the virus till now,” said Madhurjya Kakati, secretary of Kawoimari Gohain Gaon’s village defence party (VDP). Since the pandemic began, villagers have strictly complied with safety protocols such as social distancing, wearing face masks and washing hands regularly. Roads within the village have been blockaded with bamboos to prevent entry of outsiders. Banners and notices pasted all over the village urge residents to follow all safety measures and each house keeps a bucket of water and soap at the gate to allow people to wash their hands before entering. More than half of the villagers are engaged in cultivation while some are employed with government and private offices. Those who go out for work are required to follow all safety measures before returning to the village. “We have a VDP of 25 people which includes five women. We take turns to guard the entry points of the village and also check for violations within. Those flouting rules would be liable for punishment /fine as fixed by the government. We don’t see any violations by villagers,” said Kakati. Assam has enforced curfew for 17 hours daily in urban areas and 11 hours in rural areas. Educational institutions and offices are closed till the end of May and there’s a ban on inter-district movement of persons and vehicles. “Life hasn’t been same since the pandemic began as we don’t get to socialise. But we are happy that we haven’t recorded any positive case yet or lost anyone to the disease,” said Naresh Das, a teacher from the village. “We have been following the safety measures properly. There was some laxity towards the end of last year and during the recent assembly election. But with the second wave of Covid19 striking the country, everyone became cautious again. Inspired by what we are doing, some neighbouring villages have also started enforcing Covid-19 protocols,” he added. Villagers said only around 15% of those eligible have managed to vaccinated. “Kawoimari Gohain gaon hasn’t had any Covid case this year and there were no reports last year as well,” said Dr Rekha Hazarika, in-charge of Kakojan block primary health centre (BPHC) under which the village falls. Till Sunday, Assam had recorded 406,868 Covid cases and 3,300 deaths. In the past two weeks, the state has been recording around 5,000-6,000 cases and 70-80 deaths daily.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/assam-village-manages-to-avoid-covid-19-with-strict-safety-measures-101622459929095.html
31-05-2021||India||'India may start testing effects of mixed Covid-19 vaccines in a few weeks': Govt panel head||India may soon start testing an immunisation routine that mixes two different types of Covid-19 vaccines, in order to see if it helps enhance immune response to the virus, Dr NK Arora, chairman of Covid-19 working group under National Technical Advisory Group on Immunization (NTAGI), told news agency ANI.“India may soon start in a few weeks testing feasibility of a regimen that mixes two different doses of Covid vaccines to see if it helps boost immune response to virus,” ANI said quoting Arora.Dr Rajib Dasgupta, chairperson of the Centre of Social Medicine and Community Health at Jawaharlal Nehru University, told the news agency on May 28 that a study on the effects of combining two different vaccines is being conducted. Dasgupta added that only a few initial results are available from across the world, and none are final results."The combination of vaccines is still under investigation and research. The potential mixing of what we call a homologous boost... homologous combination boost are vaccines that have similar mechanisms or similar platforms. Only one or two initial results are available from the trials across the world but those are interim results and not final results," he said.The United Kingdom initiated a study of the potential effects of mixing two different types of vaccines in April 2021, under the aegis of Oxford Vaccine Group’s Com-Cov vaccine trial, which seeks to research on combining vaccines. The Com-Cov study combined an adenovirus vaccine, AstraZeneca-Oxford vaccine, with an mRNA technology based one, Moderna or Novavax vaccines. Adults over 50 who had been inoculated with their first dose were invited to participate in the study. This combination of two vaccines using different platforms (adenovirus and mRNA) is called a ‘heterologous boost’ and immunologists believe many heterologous boost may indeed help in enhancing efficiency of certain vaccines.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/india-may-start-testing-effects-of-mixed-covid-19-vaccines-in-a-few-weeks-govt-panel-head-101622458363838.html
31-05-2021||India||National Conference reconsidering boycott of delimitation commission meetings||Jammu and Kashmir National Conference party is reconsidering its earlier decision not to participate in the meetings of Delimitation Commission, which is tasked with redrawing parliamentary and assembly segments of the union territory, said senior functionaries.NC spokesman Imran Nabi Dar said party president Farooq Abdullah along with some other senior leaders of the party will take a decision on the matter.“In the virtual meeting of party leadership last week it was decided that Dr Farooq Abdullah along with senior leaders will take a final call on this issue,” he said on Monday and added that “no committee will be formed on this matter”.Recently, in a virtual meeting, Farooq Abdullah and vice president Omar Abdullah interacted with party leaders from both the provinces of the UT and also revisited the earlier decision not to participate in the meetings of the delimitation commission considering it to be a useless and illegal exercise until Article 370 was restored and Jammu and Kashmir was again made a state.In the meeting, many leaders suggested that NC parliament members, Farooq Abdullah, (Srinagar), Akbar Lone (Baramulla) and Hasnain Masoodi (Anantnag) should take part in the future meetings of the commission and shouldn’t give the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) “an open field” to “manipulate” things during the delimitation process of the erstwhile state.Jammu and Kashmir’s special status under the Indian Constitution was abrogated in August 2019 by revocation of Article 370 and the state was divided into two union territories of Jammu and Kashmir and Ladakh by a resolution passed in the parliament. The delimitation commission is now busy with the process to redraw parliamentary and assembly segments in the 20 districts of the UT.A senior NC leader said that there is now a strong possibility that NC MPs will take part in the future meetings of the commission.”Though everybody wants restoration of all the laws that have been snatched [away] from us, but the skipping of [the] meeting will only help [the] BJP; and the party wants to prevent that,” he said. Most Srinagar based political outfits were opposed to the delimitation exercise.The commission was set up by the Central law ministry on March 6, 2020, under Section 3 of the Delimitation Act 2002, the Delimitation Commission for J&K with the mandate to redraw the constituencies of the UT of Jammu and Kashmir in accordance with the provisions under the Jammu and Kashmir Reorganization Act 2019, which bifurcated the state into union territories of J&K and Ladakh. The NC had earlier said that its parliament members had conveyed to the commission their reasons for skipping the meeting.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/national-conference-reconsidering-boycott-of-delimitation-commission-meetings-101622458548621.html
31-05-2021||India||New rule for PF account holders to come into force from June 1. Check details here||Employees' Provident Fund Organisation (EPFO) has made some changes in their rules for Provident Fund (PF) account holders which are set to come into force from June 1, 2021.The employer has now been tasked with the responsibility of ensuring that their employees link their PF account to their Aadhaar cards, and failure to do so will result in the employer's contribution being stopped from going into the employee's account.The ministry of labour and employment has mandated that the 12-digit Aadhaar number has to be provided by employees and unorganised sector workers who are seeking registration, benefits or expect to receive any payment under various schemes under section 142 of Social Security Code 2020. The ministry issued a notification in this regard on May 3."Now, we will start asking for Aadhaar numbers from beneficiaries under the Social Security Code. This is also required for our database for unorganised sector workers, including migrant workers. However the delivery of services under various social security schemes would not be denied due to non-submission of Aadhaar," labour secretary Apurva Chandra told PTI.The main purpose behind the move, said the ministry, is to create a database of workers employed in the unorganised sector. Section 142 deals with establishing the identity of employees and unorganised workers through Aadhaar number for availing benefits and services under the Social Security Code.EPFO has notified employers that come June 1, if PF accounts are not linked to Aadhaar, then the ECR (electronic challan-cum-return) will not be filled. Employees can continue to make contributions to their PF account but their employer's share will not be deposited.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/new-rule-for-pf-account-holders-to-come-into-force-from-june-1-check-details-here-101622454921844.html
31-05-2021||India||‘For Amma’s soul, Sasikala should stay away’: AIADMK senior leader||A day after V K Sasikala’s audio tapes leaked, signalling her intention of a political comeback, the All India Anna Dravida Munnetra Kazhagam’s (AIADMK) co-convener K P Munusamy doubted if she will ever be accepted in the party and suggested that Sasikala should keep away from the party for the sake of late J Jayalalithaa, who worked hard to bring it up.“If Amma’s soul has to be in peace, it is better [that] she (Sasikala) keeps quiet and keeps away,” Munusamy said. He also warned her of “retribution” if she chose to fight for regaining control of the party she headed briefly after Jayalalithaa’s demise in December 2016.“There is no circumstance under which she can enter the party. There is no possibility... Every single AIADMK cadre is clear about it,” he added.Sasikala was ousted as the AIADMK general secretary in August 2017 after her conviction in the disproportionate assets case in February that year. She returned to Chennai in February this year to a grand welcome after serving her term in a Bengaluru jail, nearly three months before the Tamil Nadu assembly elections. In March, she said she would step away from politics.She currently has support of her nephew TTV Dhinakaran, who had formed his own political outfit AMMK after his expulsion from AIADMK in 2017. It was widely speculated that Sasikala will wait for the outcome of the assembly elections before making her next move. After the AIADMK lost power to rival DMK in the assembly polls in election results announced on May 3 earlier this month, Sasikala’s audio tape-- where she is heard telling some AIADMK cadres that she will soon return to “set everything right” in the party--has emerged. The audio tape also suggests that “a group” within the AIADMK still supports her.Munusamy claimed that some forces were trying to cause “confusion” in the AIADMK ranks by using Sasikala in the “forefront” at a time when AIADMK was performing its function as the main opposition party in Tamil Nadu assembly.“Not a single AIADMK cadre will fall for this confusion. Their intention will not come true. I also listened to the audio clips. No cadre has spoken to her. She’s the one who is calling them,” Munusamy said. The Sasikala audio tape comes at a time when the AIADMK is said to be witnessing a turf war between the party’s two top leaders—co-coordinator Edappadi Palanisami and coordinator O Panneerselvam. Panneerselvam is believed to be more amenable to Sasikala’s return to the party provided she accepted the present hierarchy.In the audio tapes, leaked on Sunday, Sasiakala is also heard saying she will not watch a party they had built with difficulties go to waste while referring to the rift between Palaniswami and Panneerselvam.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/for-amma-s-soul-sasikala-should-stay-away-aiadmk-senior-leader-101622455188538.html
31-05-2021||India||LPG price, ITR filing, gold hallmarking: Changes coming into effect from June 1||Several policy and schemes, which will impact common people, are set to witness changes from June 1. These include pricing of LPG cylinder, a new interface of income tax department's website where returns are filed, hallmarking of gold and interest on small savings.Additionally, the countrywide lockdown will start easing in several states like Madhya Pradesh, Uttar Pradesh and Delhi, paving way for more economical activities and opening up of institutions, manufacturing factories and construction work.New PF rulesIf you are employed, then this news is very useful for you. The EPFO has changed the rules for Provident Fund account holders. According to the new rule, now the employer is required to link every employee's account with the Aadhaar card from June 1.Price of LPG cylinder may go upIn the new month, the price of LPG can also be changed drastically. Oil companies announce these prices every month. At present, the price of 14.2 kg gas cylinder in Delhi is ₹809. Indications from the rise in fuel prices, it is likely that the price of gas can be increased from 50 to 100 rupees per cylinder.Air travel to become expensiveAir travel will become expensive from June 1. The central government has approved hiking the minimum limit of airfare to 16 per cent. The airfare limit has been increased from 13 to 16 per cent. This increase will be effective from June 1. The Ministry of Civil Aviation has said in an order that no increase in the upper fare limit has been made.Change in interest rates of small savings schemeIn March, the interest rates of government schemes such as PPF, NSC, Sukanya Samriddhi Yojana were changed, but then the government withdrew its order stating that it was an oversight error on the part of Centre. The decision of the government was then seen to be linked to the polls in five Indian states. This is also expected to be changed from June 1. However, the new rates are applicable till 30 June.Bank of Baroda Payment ProcessBank of Baroda is going to make big changes in cheque payment rules from June 1. The bank is implementing 'Positive Pay Confirmation' from first date of next month. However, for the convenience of customers, the bank has said that the rule of 'positive pay confirmation' will be applicable only on payments above 50 thousand. According to the information given on the bank's website, now the issuer of the cheque will have to give the information of the beneficiaries in advance. The bank believes that this will take less time. Additionally, the move is expected to tackle cheque frauds.Gold hallmarking rulesThe central government has now moved the mandatory hallmarking deadline of gold jewelery and artifacts to June 15 due to Covid-19 pandemic. The decision was taken in a meeting chaired by consumer affairs minister Piyush Goyal. It was earlier expected to be implemented from June 1. The traders associated with the trade union Confederation of All India Traders and the jewelery industry had asked the government to extend the date for the introduction of hallmarking. Given the current situation, the government has accepted their demand.ITR's new websiteMarking a significant change in Income Tax return filing, the existing website www.incometaxindiaefilling.gov.in will not be functional from June 1 to 6. The new website www.incometaxgov.in will be launched by the government on June 7. The new website will be advanced as well as user friendly as compared to the earlier, officials said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/lpg-price-itr-filing-gold-hallmarking-changes-coming-into-effect-from-june-1-101622447596722.html
31-05-2021||India||Daily Covid-19 recoveries outnumber fresh cases for 18th consecutive day||The single-day Covid-19 recoveries in India outnumbered daily cases for the 18th day in a row on Friday, the Union ministry of health and family welfare said on Monday. As many as 2,38,022 recoveries were registered in the previous 24 hours, taking the cumulative recoveries to 25,692,342, the health ministry dashboard showed.The country's overall tally now stands at 28,047,534 and while the death toll touched 329,100 after 152,734 fresh cases of infection and 3128 fatalities were reported on Monday.The active cases have further reduced to 20,26,092, comprising 7.22% of the total infections, while the national Covid-19 recovery rate touched to 91.6%.On the vaccination front, the authorities have inoculated more than 213.1 million. A total of 21,31,54,129 doses have been administered through 30,28,295 sessions, according to the provisional report till 7am on Monday. More than 2,73,900 vaccine doses are in the pipeline and will be received by the states/UTs within the next three-days.Amid the rising number of Covid-19 cases, several states including Maharashtra, Bihar and Andhra Pradesh extended lockdown or lockdown-like curbs to check the spread of the infection.In the national capital, chief minister Arvind Kejriwal extended the lockdown till June 7 while providing some relaxation to the construction sector and factories to resume operations. "We have to remember that the fight against Covid-19 is still not over. We have to make sure that things do not go bad again. To ensure this, the relaxations have to be introduced in a phased way," said the chief minister Friday.Earlier in the day, Kejriwal informed that Delhi is likely to receive the first consignment of Sputnik V, the Russian Covid-19 vaccine, in June, while stressing that vaccination is the key to fight against the coronavirus.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/daily-covid-19-recoveries-outnumber-fresh-cases-for-18th-consecutive-day-101622453213834.html
31-05-2021||India||Actor Juhi Chawla files plea in Delhi HC against implementation of 5G technology, hearing on June 2||Actor Juhi Chawla on Monday moved the Delhi high court against implementation of 5G wireless network technology in India, raising issues related to the radiation impact on citizens, animals, flora and fauna. The petition has claimed that 5G will lead to RF exposure to all the living beings on earth which will be 100 times more than the current level and lead to serious, irreversible effects on humans.Justice C Hari Shankar, before whom the matter came up for hearing, transferred the suit to another bench for hearing on June 2.The actor said while she is not against the implementation of technological advancements, "we have sufficient reason to believe that the radiation is extremely harmful and injurious to the health and safety of the people."Her petition, filed through advocate Deepak Khosla, has cited clinical and experimental evidence of damage to DNA, cells and organ systems in plants and animals to state the major diseases of modern civilization - cancer, heart disease and diabetes - are, in large part, caused by electromagnetic pollution which is generated by wireless mobile phone technology.In a statement, Juhi Chawla's spokesperson said, "The present suit is being instituted, in order to seek a direction from this Hon'ble court to the arrayed defendants, to certify to us and, therefore, to the public at large, that 5G technology is safe to human kind, man, woman, adult, child, infant, animals and every type of living organism, to flora, to fauna."The statement also asked the direction to produce studies done in this regard.Earlier this month, the Department of Telecom (DoT) approved applications of telecom companies Reliance Jio, Bharti Airtel, Vodafone Idea and MTNL to conduct 5G trials in India. The companies have been asked to conduct the trials without Chinese technology or entities, as per government order.Bharti Airtel, Reliance Jio and Vodafone Idea have been given trial spectrum for six month to test 5G technology in the country. State-owned telecom firm MTNL will also join the trial soon.Telecom operators have been allocated spectrum in 700 Mhz band, 3.3-3.6 gigahertz (Ghz) band and 24.25-28.5 Ghz band across various locations.The trials will be conducted at various locations including Delhi, Mumbai, Kolkata, Bengaluru, Gujarat and Hyderabad.During the trials, application of 5G in Indian settings will get tested. This includes tele-medicine, tele-education and drone-based agriculture monitoring. Telecom operators will be able to test various 5G devices on their network.According to DoT, 5G technology is expected to deliver 10 times better download speed than that of 4G and up to three times greater spectrum efficiency.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/juhi-chawla-files-plea-in-delhi-hc-against-5g-technology-hearing-on-june-2-101622453187587.html
31-05-2021||India||Odisha's Covid-19 caseload nearing 765,000; 8,313 new cases reported||Odisha on Monday registered 8,313 new Covid-19 cases, which took the tally in the coastal state to 764,997, a health department official said.The death toll rose to 2,754 as 35 more people succumbed to the disease in the state, he said.Of the new cases, 4,655 were reported from quarantine centres and the remaining 3,658 detected during contact tracing.Khurda district, which comprises the state capital Bhubaneswar, registered the maximum number of fresh cases at 974, followed by Cuttack (593), Mayurbhanj (532), Angul (505), Sundargarh (465), Balasore (452) and Dhenkanal (407).The remaining new cases were reported from several other districts.Taking to Twitter, the Health and Family Welfare Department said, "Regret to inform the demise of thirty-five Covid positive patients while under treatment in hospitals."Angul accounted for five fresh fatalities, while three each were reported from Cuttack, Kalahandi, Kendrapara, Khurda, Nabarangpur and Subarnapur and two each from Deogarh, Gajapati, Ganjam, Jharsuguda and Sundargarh.One Covid patient each succumbed to the infection in Nayagarh and Nuapada, the official said.Fifty-three other Covid-19 patients have also died in the state due to comorbidities, he said.Odisha now has 91,663 active cases.At least 11,881 people were cured of the disease on Sunday, taking the total number of recoveries in the state to 6,70,527.The state has so far conducted over 1.17 crore sample tests for Covid-19, including 61,613 on Sunday, and the positivity rate stands at 6.5 per cent.Chief Secretary S C Mohapatra and the health department's Additional Chief Secretary PK Mohapatra on Monday visited Nabarangpur and Koraput districts to review the Covid situation there.The chief secretary said the test positivity ratio in Nabarangpur has declined to 13 per cent from 20 per cent recorded recently, while the district has got an RT-PCR machine which will be operational very shortly.An oxygen plant at the district headquarters hospital will start working in the next three months, he said.Along with the collector and other senior officers of the district, the two senior bureaucrats visited a Covid hospital and enquired about the functioning of the ICU there and the construction of a 200-bed ward.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/odishas-covid-19-caseload-nearing-765-000-8-313-new-cases-reported-101622452353790.html
31-05-2021||India||Andhra Pradesh govt extends Covid-19 curfew till June 10||The Andhra Pradesh government on Monday announced that it has extended the Covid-19 curfew in the state till June 10."Curfew extended till June 10th in Andhra Pradesh. Timings remain the same," informed Chief Minister's Office.The curfew was scheduled to end today. Now the restrictions have been extended by 10 more days. The relaxation time remains the same from 6 am to 12 noon.According to the state health department, Andhra Pradesh reported 13,400 new Covid-19 cases, 21,133 recoveries and 94 deaths in the 24 hours on Sunday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/andhra-pradesh-govt-extends-covid-19-curfew-till-june-10-101622452659851.html
31-05-2021||India||Woman raped on way home from hospital in Assam; 2 detained||Police in Assam’s Charaideo district detained two persons on Monday in connection with the alleged abduction, rape of a woman last week while she was walking home from hospital after testing negative for Covid. According to the police, the incident occurred on May 27 when the woman, who is in her 40s and belongs to the tea-tribe community, was abducted by two persons and raped. Her daughter, around 18-20 years of age, managed to escape.Some reports say the women, both of whom had tested negative for Covid after spending a week in the hospital, were forced to walk home after they were denied an ambulance by the authorities. HT couldn’t independently verify this. “The incident took place around 7pm on May 27. The woman was abducted by two persons who later raped her inside a tea-garden. Her daughter managed to flee...We were informed about the incident on May 29,” said Sudhakar Singh, superintendent of police, Charaideo. “Based on the information provided by the survivor and our investigation, we picked up two persons on Monday morning in connection with the incident. More details will be available after their interrogation,” he added. The woman’s medical examination report is awaited. The women were discharged from Sapekhati Model Hospital in the district. Officials denied allegations that their request to spend the night at the hospital (as curfew was underway) was turned down by hospital authorities, forcing them to walk home. Also Read | 3.8 magnitude quake hits Assam’s Tezpur, second in less than 24 hoursHealth officials in Charaideo also maintained that as per the state government guidelines, hospitals are not required to provide ambulances to those who have recovered from Covid. “Our guidelines don’t require allotment of ambulances to Covid patients to go home after testing negative [and] the women didn’t ask to be allowed to spend the night in the hospital,” said Dr Nizara Devi, joint director health, Charaideo. “It’s a government hospital and they could have easily stayed here for a night, if they had asked. Even the woman’s husband had spent a night in the hospital after his test report came negative (as he couldn’t return home due to curfew). We are conducting an inquiry into the allegations,” she added. In Assam, curfew is enforced in urban areas from 12pm to 5am daily. In rural areas, curfew is imposed from 2pm to 5am daily. The Opposition, Congress, blamed the state government for the incident and said that despite assurances by chief minister Himanta Biswa Sarma about safety of women being the government’s top priority, such crimes were taking place frequently. “The mother- daughter were left to fend for themselves when lockdown was in place. Wasn’t it the responsibility of the hospital and local authorities to see that the woman and her daughter reached home safely?” Bobbeeta Sharma, in-charge of Assam Congress media department, said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/woman-raped-on-way-home-from-hospital-in-assam-2-detained-101622451528215.html
31-05-2021||India||Pandemic effect: SpiceJet to pay employees based on work hours||With the second wave of Covid-19 severely impacting the aviation sector all over again, low cost carrier SpiceJet has decided to go back to their structure of paying the employees according to their working hours.In an email sent out to its employees on Sunday, the airline stated that India is currently going through one of the worst Covid-19 outbreaks in the world and passenger traffic has fallen to under 10% of pre-Covid levels.“Much like last year, the second wave of Covid-19 has hit the Indian aviation industry the hardest, but this time the impact has been much more severe especially on our industry. During this second wave the passenger traffic has fallen to less than 10% as compared to the pre-Covid levels,” read the email.Also Read | Second wave: Airlines, DGCA help staff fight anxiety, fearEffective June 1, the Ministry of Civil Aviation (MoCA) has also capped the capacity for domestic flights from 80% to 50%. Moreover, according to civil aviation regulator Directorate General of Civil Aviation’s (DGCA) latest monthly report, domestic carriers registered 57.25 lakh air travellers in April compared with 78.22 lakh in March.“This sudden drop due to unprecedented surge in Covid cases coupled with varied travel restrictions across India has adversely affected our revenue and cash flows. It is still unknown whether the cases have peaked-out or the traffic has bottomed-out,” read the email sent by the human resource department of the airline.Announcing salary cuts, the airline stated, “Under these extreme and unavoidable circumstances which we are currently enduring, the company is reverting to the structure where employees will be paid according to the work hours contributed while maintaining basic thresholds.”SpiceJet, however, said that salaries of the lowest grade employees will not be deducted.The email read, “While the salaries for the month of May shall be credited to your bank accounts on 1 June, there will be graded deferment of up to 35% for some of our employees. The deferred amount will be released from second week of June 2021 onwards. Our colleagues in the lowest pay grades will be unaffected by this deferment and their salaries will be paid in full.”SpiceJet assured its employees that they are making efforts to return to normalcy.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/pandemic-effect-spicejet-to-pay-employees-based-on-work-hours-101622451468319.html
31-05-2021||India||Delhi HC issues notice to Twitter for 'non-compliance' with new IT rules||The Delhi high court on Monday issued notice to microblogging platform Twitter for its alleged non-compliance with the new information technology rules. The court was hearing a plea filed by advocate Amit Acharya who alleged Twitter’s non-compliance to Information Technology (Intermediary Guidelines and Digital Ethics Code) Rules 2021 which came into effect on May 25. The bench of Justice Rekha Palli gave Twitter three weeks to reply and posted the matter for hearing on July 6.The new guidelines require companies like Twitter, WhatsApp, Facebook, and Google to regulate their content, appoint grievance officers who will be liable for compliance, and adopt measures like tracing of individual messages and voluntary user verification.Senior advocate Sajan Poovaya appearing for Twitter told the court that a resident grievance officer had been appointed on May 28. The government's counsel Ripudaman Bhardwaj opposed this stand. The petitioner told the court that he came to know of Twitter's non-compliance when he went to lodge a complaint against some tweets.A war of words had ensued between Twitter and the Centre recently over the new IT rules, with Twitter stating that it will continue “to advocate for changes to elements of these regulations that inhibit free, open public conversation”.Other social media platforms like WhatsApp have filed a petition in Delhi High Court alleging that the new rules violate the fundamental right to privacy. Google CEO Sundar Pichai told reporters that Google advocates for free and open internet, adding that the company respects local legislative processes but pushes back when the need arises.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/delhi-hc-issues-notice-to-twitter-for-non-compliance-to-new-it-rules-101622450194333.html
31-05-2021||India||Tripura teachers are saving lives doubling up as Covid-19 warriors||Biplab Saha’s life as a school teacher in Tripura has undergone a sea change since he first came to terms with online teaching following closure of schools due to a nationwide lockdown, clamped to contain Covid-19 pandemic last year. It changed further this year, when deployed as a Covid warrior at Tripura’s first Covid war room in Sepahijala district, he realised his words of encouragement and prompt service had the power to save lives of Covid-19 patients under home isolation. “I usually ask about the well-being of Covid-19 patients in home isolation from the Covid war room. We think it is a social service we are doing in the pandemic,” Saha said and added, “We call a patient at least five times within a gap of half-an-hour or an hour if they don’t pick up calls. We want to ensure not a single patient goes unattended.”Saha is a social science teacher at Rangapania English Medium High School in Sepahijala district. He says he realises that his work at the war room is even more important than spending time with his 16 months’ old twins at home. “My wife gives me full support to do my work. I, too, maintain hygiene at home to ensure we are all protected from the disease,” Saha said. Many other teachers like Saha feel satisfied serving Covid-19 patients when they could have instead stayed within the comfort of their homes. So far, over 1,200 teachers from the state have been roped-in for different Covid-19 related duties. Dr. Mizanur Rehman, who also teaches political science at KK Nagar Higher Secondary School in Sepahijala district, feels the pandemic gave him the opportunity to serve humanity. “In this situation, we got a chance to help these patients in their hour of emergency. Besides medical problems, we even attend to many social problems they face during these times,” said Dr. Rehman, who has been assigned the job to address any problems faced by Covid patients during home isolation through intervention by administration, hospitals or any other social organisations. He recalled how his intervention helped rush a Covid patient-- who suddenly complained of breathlessness late at night-- to a hospital in time, perhaps saving his life. “Many patients call me even after my duty hours. I never get tired of listening to their issues. I, myself, got to learn many things in this period,” said Rehman. On May 9, the Covid War Room (CWR) at Sepahijala district was the first such facility to be set up with 37 school teachers on deputation. It provides the much needed 24x7 monitoring and support mechanism apart from regular healthcare involving screening, testing and treatment at Covid treatment facilities, said Sepahijala district magistrate Vishwasree B. Later, two other Covid war rooms led by district education officers were started in the West district on May 11 and in Dhalai district on May 17. 54 teachers were deputed in the West district war room and another 30 in the Dhalai district. They are divided into teams tasked with tracking all incoming passengers in the districts, monitoring home isolation patients and addressing grievances, if any. They notify administration, ambulances, doctors, ration and medical shops based on the patients’ needs. “Currently, we have three Covid war rooms that coordinate with Covid control rooms in all the eight districts. We are introducing more Covid war rooms in the remaining five districts at the earliest. Besides, a total of 227 teachers are involved in Covid control rooms and another 1,195 are engaged in Covid-19 vaccination centres,” said education minister Ratan Lal Nath. Forty eight years old Haradhan Saha lost his social activist wife last December and now lives with his only son. A government teacher since September 1996, Saha has been consumed by the service he is doing.“I came to know many unknown facts about Covid-19 after I joined the Covid war room since I even had to counsel some nervous patients besides inquiring about their well-being,” Saha, a science teacher in Naogaon High School in West district, says. He monitors 100 patients daily.Saha says he has now a list of social organisations who deliver food and medicines to the doorsteps of needy Covid-19 patients. He sometimes delivers food and vegetables to Covid-19 patients himself in his immediate neighbourhood. A female Covid-19 survivor feels there is a need for more such Covid war rooms to help the patients cope with the many challenges associated with the disease including the emotional ones. “The initiative is very nice. Since the number of patients is on the rise in the state, especially in the West district, I feel more Covid war rooms should come up,” she said, in recognition of the difference made by the 1,200 strong force of Tripura’s school teachers turned Covid warriors.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/tripura-teachers-are-saving-lives-doubling-up-as-covid-19-warriors-101622449548299.html
31-05-2021||India||Mamata and her battle against Union government over bureaucrats||West Bengal chief minister Mamata Banerjee informed Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Monday that her government “cannot release, and is not releasing, its Chief Secretary Alapan Bandopadhyay at this critical hour”, pointing out that the top bureaucrat, who was due to retire today, has been given a three-month extension to help manage the cyclone and Covid situation in the state. Staging a battle against the Union government over a bureaucrat is not new for the CM, and also not without a reason, say Trinamool leaders. In 2019 February, Banerjee organised a sit-in demonstration after CBI officers went to Kolkata police commissioner Rajeev Kumar’s residence to interrogate him in Saradha chit fund case. Banerjee backed Kumar to the hilt and even reinstated him after she swept the recently concluded assembly polls in Bengal. During her 10 years as the CM, she had often refused to send IAS or IPS officers on deputation, citing shortage of civil servants in her state. On one occasion, Banerjee even furnished data to show several posts for civil servants lying vacant and wanted the Centre not to call bureaucrats for central postings. But the two incidents—over Rajeev Kumar and Alapan Bandopadhyay—underline Banerjee’s staunch support for key bureaucrats (both are considered professionally very close to the CM) as well as trying to assert her authority on all matters related to Bengal. Saugata Ray, former UPA minister and Trinamool MP, said, “The CM must have control over the administration. Otherwise, how would she run the government? Her decision to defy the Centre’s directive in the case of Alapan shows that she wants to run the state with political as well as administrative authority.” Also Read | In Bengal, a political battle over cyclone relief erupts, againTrinamool Congress leaders maintain that Mamata wants to turn this into an issue of federalism and an avenue of attack against PM Modi. “Rajeev Kumar and Alapan Bandopadhyay’s cases are completely different. Rajeev was facing charges. But Banerjee stood for both of them. This is her way to assert her position,” said a leader.Banerjee has also made Bandopadhyay’s transfer row into a political battle, an area where she is more comfortable to take on the mighty Centre. At a press conference, she attacked the NDA brass for taking revenge for the loss in West Bengal polls and even wondered if Bandopadhyay is being harassed for being a Bengali. Bandopadhyay found himself in the centre of a political storm after the BJP alleged that Banerjee deliberately kept the PM waiting and later didn’t attend a review meeting chaired by Modi in Bengal. Banerjee rejected the allegations and said she wanted to meet the PM exclusively, but no time was allotted. After the Centre recalled Bandopadhyay and asked him to report to Department of Personnel and Training, Banerjee backed him and refused to adhere to Centre’s directive. There wasn’t an immediate reaction from the Centre on Banerjee’s letter to the PM.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/cant-send-cs-back-mamata-banerjee-writes-to-pmmodi-101622449068179.html
31-05-2021||India||Delhi HC rejects drug controller’s report on Gautam Gambhir over hoarding case||The Delhi High Court on Monday slammed the drug controller's status report on Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) leader Gautam Gambhir into the allegation that he and others hoarded essential medicines to treat patients of the coronavirus disease (Covid-19). Dismissing the report as "trash," the court said that there is no legal basis for it."We reject it here... If you are not being able to do it, then we will get it done by someone else," it said while hearing the public interest litigation (PIL) seeking a first information report (FIR) against Gambhir and others involved in the matter.Also Read | Please smell the coffee: Supreme Court tells govt over vaccination policy“There is a fundamental error of approach. The manner in which you have conducted the investigation is questionable. You have not examined that as to how a large quantities of drug was given when it was not sought by to the doctor,” the court said. “You haven't done any exercise on the aspect of as to how such a large consignment of the drug was supplied to the foundation which wasn't a dealer,” it added."How could such a large stock be given to a foundation which is not a medical practitioner, " the court questioned, adding, "We dare say it is not permissible."The court also said that the tendency of people taking advantage and "trying to appear as saviour should be denounced." "If this happens again. We know how to deal with it. But the gentleman has to realise. You need to be mindful of the strips you're taking," it said referring to Gautam Gambhir.On May 7, the high court directed Delhi Police to investigate the allegations of hoarding of oxygen cylinders and medicines like Fabiflu, acting on a plea by Deepak Singh. However, after days of probing the matter, the police cleared Gambhir and nine others including BV Srinivas, the president of the Indian Youth Congress (IYC), the BJP's Harish Khurana and Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) leader Dilip Pandey.Following this, the high court ordered Delhi's drug controller to conduct an independent probe into the allegations. "There is a fundamental error of approach. The manner in which you have conducted the investigation is questionable," the court also said. "You have not examined that as to how a large quantity of the drugs was given when it was not sought by the doctor," it added.However, Gambhir has denied any wrongdoing and claimed that the Gautam Gambhir Foundation had organised a free medical camp between April 22 and May 7 to provide assistance to people suffering from Covid-19. The cricketer-turned-politician said that the camp was organised by a doctor, who had volunteered his services.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/delhi-hc-rejects-drug-controller-s-report-on-gautam-gambhir-over-hoarding-case-101622447232965.html
31-05-2021||India||In India’s wildlife debate, the battle between the cheetah and lion||The introduction of cheetahs in Madhya Pradesh’s Kuno Palpur wildlife reserve and cyclone Tauktae hitting Gujarat’s Gir National Park, the country’s only wild home for lions, has triggered a ferocious debate among conservation experts on whether Kuno should get cheetahs from Africa or lions from Gir.Most wildlife experts say that Kuno should get lions from Gir as the habitat was originally developed for translocation of the big cats so that they could get a second home outside Gujarat, more so after the devastating Tauktae, which caused felling of about 2.5 million trees in Gir.Although the Gujarat forest department claimed that no lion died because of the cyclone, wildlife experts said the cyclone was a warning to governments that India needs a second home for lions.“You can relocate people to safer places before the cyclone comes. Not wildlife. You need a second home for them to ensure Asiatic lion species from wild is not wiped out,” said a scientist from the Wildlife Institute of India, who was not willing to be quoted as he was not authorised to speak to media.For the lion The idea to find a second home for lions was mooted in early 1990s and the Madhya Pradesh government started developing Kuno Palpur as second home for Asiatic lions. The Gujarat government refused to share lions with Madhya Pradesh saying they were pride of Gujarat.Environmental activists filed a petition in the Supreme Court seeking directions to Gujarat government to provide lions from Gir to Kuno to develop a second wild home for Asiatic lions. The Gujarat government categorically refused to give lions to Madhya Pradesh, arguing that lions were safe in Gir and the state would create a second home for them, if needed, within Gujarat.Also Read | Experts fear biodiversity loss in Andaman, Nicobar IslandsLions did not get a second home even eight years after the Gujarat government told the Supreme Court it would create one, despite almost 40% of the lion population in Gujarat living outside the notified wildlife areas and being vulnerable to diseases from livestock. According to wildlife experts, 1,400 square km of Gir National Park has a carrying capacity of about 250 or so lions and the park has attained that level more than two decades ago. So, now lions are moving close to people and their livestock.“It (over-populated Gir) has two fold implications,” said a wildlife biologist Meena Venkatraman, who has worked in Gir for more than two decades. “First, for the animal himself, and second, for people living around them.”The signs of these implications are visible.In September 2018, 27 lions in Gir died because of canine distemper virus (CDV) while 37 others had to be quarantined. The incident brought back memories of 1994 incident in Serengeti National Park in Tanzania where one-third of 3,000 lions died due to CDV in a few weeks.Between January to May 2020, a central government expert committee pointed out that some lions had again caught CDV while it was investigating death of 20 lions because of babesiosis, a disease caused by babesia protozoa which spreads through tick parasite.Dogs are said to be carriers of CDV which has high mortality rate among cats and a study done by National Institute of Virology concluded that Gir lions got CDV from dogs. “Reintegration of the existing lion population from the Gir region to different sanctuaries can ensure the protection and conservation of the species,” the institute said in its report.The Gujarat forest department data shows that lion deaths because of conflict with people are on the rise. As per information provided to the state assembly, 159 lions died in 2020 as compared to 154 in 2019 in and around Gir and about one-third of them were probably because of conflict with humans. The state forest department officials have rejected the claims of rising conflict with people to relocate lions saying there were just stray cases and lions were safe in Gir.With lions in Hyderabad zoo getting Covid-19, and the impact of cyclone Tauktae, the debate on lions needing another home has got reignited. Wildlife biologist and conservation scientist Ravi Chellam, who has been involved in research and conservation of felines since 1985, said that the possibility of lions population getting wiped out because of a natural disaster such as cyclone is high even though the cats living in wild contracting the virus in a free-ranging condition from humans is “close to zero.”Also Read | High chance of hitting 1.5°C tipping point during next five years, warns WMOWeather scientists such as Mathew Roxy Koll of Indian Institute of Tropical Meteorology have repeatedly said that with warning of sea surfaces because of the climate crisis, the intensity and frequency of cyclones would rise. “The number of cyclones witnessed in Arabian Sea in the past decade is highest since 1901 and the intensity of them is also increasing,” Koll said.Tauktae gusted the Saurashtra coast, where Gir is situated, with a wind speed of about 185 kilometer per hour and caused huge ecological devastation in Gir, even though no loss of lions was reported. “Our initial estimate shows that 2.5 to 3 million trees were damaged badly,” said a Gujarat forest department official. Gujarat chief conservator of forest, Shyamlal Tikadar, said assessment of ecological loss was being done. Climate studies show that intensity of cyclones across the world including in Arabian Sea will rise in coming years, posting a grave danger to Gir lions.The cheetah question In the present circumstances, Kuno appears to be viable for translocation of lions as it was developed for them. But it may not be available as a second home for Asiatic lions. The reason is a Supreme Court appointed expert committee, which has decided to import Cheetahs from South Africa in MP’s green habitat, bordering Rajasthan’s Ranthambore tiger reserve. The Centre, earlier this month, informed the Madhya Pradesh forest department that it could import eight cheetahs from South Africa by November this year.“Since the beginning, Kuno was developed to receive Asiatic Lions and was never seen from the Cheetah perspective,” said Faiyaz Khudsar, a wildlife biologist, who has carried out a long term research in Kuno National Park. The grasslands and the prey population in Kuno was groomed to sustain lion population. “Most of the evacuated crop fields are now taken over by many woody plant species such as Ziziphus nummularia and Acacia leucophloea and other woody shrubs and non-palatable grasses such as Desmostachya bipinnata etc. It led to slow ecological elimination of probably the most preferred catchable prey for cheetah i.e. chinkara and now chinkara can be rarely sighted in Kuno,” he said.Khudsar said small population of Blackbuck reported from Poh ki Nimai and Manak Chowk area of Kuno have already been eliminated in ecological succession. “Once seen in large group size, Chital is now seen in small groups due to the continuous loss of open large grassland. Therefore, Kuno is not a site to see successful introduction of Cheetah,” Khudsar said.Those in favour of introduction of cheetah, such as MK Ranjitsinh, said the project would help India in protecting some of its lost grasslands and create new wildlife habitats. Cheetahs were last spotted in India in 1950s and Ranjitsinh first tried relocation of cheetahs from Iran in 1970s. He was able to convince environment minister Jairam Ramesh in 2010 to get cheetahs and an expert committee headed by him was formed. They selected three locations in India for introduction of Cheetah. The Supreme Court, however, put a stay on the project after some wildlife conservationists approached the apex court.Also Read | Researchers at IISER document new species of African Violet in Mizoram“The opposition to the project is misconceived. If the tigers can adapt to new habitats within the country, the cheetah can also. Conservation of cheetahs can help in conserving grasslands and protect grassland species like Great Indian Bustard, who are now less than 200 in India. Kuno may not be perfect but it is a good option,” Ranjitsinh had told this correspondent in 2019 when the Supreme Court gave the go-ahead to the project.Debunking claims against Kuno, Madhya Pradesh’ principal chief conservator of forest (wildlife), Alok Kumar, said, “Cheetah translocation is an ambitious project. We are leaving no stone unturned to develop Kuno as one of the best habitats for cheetah. We have started construction work of boundary wall and also cutting thorny bushes.”Wildlife biologist and conservation scientist Ravi Chellam questioned the need to introduce cheetahs in India when there is not a robust policy framework for conservation and protection of so many species and grasslands. “A robust policy to conserve these last remaining grassland fragments must precede the cheetah, not depend on its arrival being the catalyst of preservation,” said Chellam, CEO, Metastring Foundation and member of the Biodiversity Collaborative.In 2011, the central government had estimated that project cheetah would cost ₹300 crore, even though most of national parks, other than tiger reserve, get ₹12 lakh annual from the central kitty, according to one study on the allocation for wildlife made in financial year 2018-19. Ranjitsinh said the “ecological benefits” of the project cannot be measured in money terms. For the project, the environment ministry has allocated ₹14 crore in May 2021.Khudsar said that the possibility of lion surviving in Kuno is much higher than cheetahs and Kuno should be kept for shifting lions in case of an epidemic or a natural disaster. Chellam backed him saying the SC’s 2013 order had disallowed the introduction of cheetahs calling it “arbitrary and illegal”, in part due to the lopsided idea of flying in an exotic species, while undermining its own native species, like the endangered Asiatic lion. Kumar added that there is no end of road for lion translocation as two cat species can co-exist in Kuno. Tigers and cheetahs lived close to each other in Madhya Pradesh, about 100 years ago. M||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/in-india-s-wildlife-debate-the-battle-between-the-cheetah-and-lion-101622447989151.html
31-05-2021||India||News updates from HT: Children face cyber sexual abuse as they turn to digital devices and all the latest news||Here are today’s top news, analysis, and opinion. Know all about the latest news and other news updates from Hindustan Times.As they turn to digital devices, children face enhanced cyber sexual harassmentWhen a 14-year-old girl’s parents in Delhi’s Shahdara district bought her a mobile phone last year to facilitate her online classes, a result of the restrictions imposed on schools to curb the spread of the pandemic, little did they realise the possible social media abuse she may be subjected to. Read MoreUP mulls rigorous curbs in 20 districts with more than 600 active casesThe Uttar Pradesh government said it was considering rigorous enforcement of existing Covid-19 restrictions in 20 districts with more than 600 active Covid cases. Read MoreWoman Maoist carrying reward of ₹2 lakh killed in Chhattisgarh’s DantewadaA suspected woman Maoist carrying a reward of ₹2 lakh on her head was gunned down by the security forces in Chhattisgarh’s Dantewada district on Monday. Read MoreMeet Praharsh Parikh, the 19-year-old boy who bowled MS DhoniFollowing the Indian cricket team's practice session can be a riveting affair. Read MoreArjun Kapoor on celebrities getting trolled for charity: ‘We are humans, there is no right or wrong’Arjun Kapoor, who has earlier talked about investing his life’s savings into online fundraising platform Fankind, reacted to the criticism faced by celebrities for their humanitarian ventures. Read MoreBMW X7 M50d ‘Dark Shadow’ Edition launched in India at ₹2.02 croreBMW has launched the new X7 M50d ‘Dark Shadow’ Edition SUV in India today at a price of ₹2.02 crore. Read MoreShilpa Shetty aces Yoga’s Mandukasana to focus on ‘second brain’, positive vibeFitness enthusiasts have been eagerly waiting for early morning Yoga sessions with Shilpa Shetty Kundra every Monday and after her family recovered from Covid-19, the diva is back with rejuvenated zeal to boost workout motivation in fans. Read More'This is epic!': Courteney Cox re-enacts The Routine from FRIENDS with Ed SheeranWhen the Friends Reunion special was aired on May 27, all the fans went through an emotional and delightful roller coaster full of re-enactments of some noteworthy scenes of the popular sitcom. Read MoreDid Odisha feel ignored amid Mamata-Modi cyclone tussle? Top official answersOdisha’s Special Relief Commissioner Pradeep Kumar Jena shared details of Cyclone Yaas' review meeting with Prime Minister Narendra Modi. Watch||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/news-updates-from-ht-children-face-cyber-sexual-abuse-as-they-turn-to-digital-devices-and-all-the-latest-news-101622443757039.html
31-05-2021||India||In Bengal, a political battle over cyclone relief erupts, again||On May 28, two days after Cyclone Yaas inflicted heavy damage in the coastal districts and Sunderban delta of West Bengal, chief minister (CM) Mamata Banerjee, while taking stock of the situation in South 24 Parganas, warned district officials to ensure that there were no complaints in relief operations.“Last time, we had given enough (relief). But because of one or two incidents, we had to face a lot of ignominy. It should not happen this time,” the CM said at a post-cyclone review meeting at Sagar. Banerjee appeared to referring to the allegations of massive corruption and nepotism that her party had to face in the aftermath of cyclone Amphan, which had ravaged the state in May 2020.With three coastal districts and more than 100 islands in the Sunderban delta, the state is prone to cyclones that originate over the Bay of Bengal. West Bengal has been hit by at least four such cyclones in the recent past – Aila (2009), Bulbul (2019), Amphan (2020) and Yaas (2021).Every time a cyclone devastates the coastal districts and the Sunderbans, thousands of crore are pumped in by both the Central and the state government. Allegations of corruption, mismanagement and nepotism surface soon after, as if they have become synonymous. And while the current focus is on the Central-state battle over the recall of the chief secretary, at the root of it lies a recurring tension between the ruling and the Opposition party over issues of allocation of relief, the state of embankments, and central funds.Also Watch | Cyclone Yaas: How Odisha evacuated 700,000 people in less than 24 hours“The more the devastation, the larger is the fund that is pumped in for relief and reconstruction and the more serious are the allegations of corruption. It happened when Aila had struck in May 2009 during Left Front regime. It happened even a decade later when Amphan hit in May 2020 during Trinamool Congress (TMC) regime. Nothing has changed,” said Subhash Acharya, former joint director of the Sunderban Development Board.The allocation of relief Soon after the relief operations started in the aftermath of cyclone Amphan in May 2020, complaints poured in that the compensation never reached the actual victims. Clashes broke out in cyclone-hit villages, as it surfaced that local TMC leaders were benefited the most. In some areas, women were at the forefront of the protests.“I didn’t get a single penny as relief even though my hut was completely damaged. Neither did many others like me in the village. But there are some people who received money even though they didn’t suffer any loss. They were close to the ruling party,” said Madhusudan Mondol, a villager of Satjelia.With less than a year left for the crucial assembly elections of 2021, the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) grabbed the opportunity and turned it into a major poll issue. Words like “Chal chor” (paddy thief) and “Tirpal chor” (tarpaulin thief) were coined to attack the TMC on allegations of corruption during the relief operations.The TMC dismissed the allegations. But it clearly has had an impact, for the party does not want to confront the same perception again.“The CM has directed us to ensure there is no shortage of relief materials – water, food, medicines and tarpauline. There is no harm if someone gets two tarpauline instead of one. But there shouldn’t be any complaint this time,” said a district magistrate.Also Read | Need to revisit growth path amid climate crisisBut the BJP is not convinced that there has been any change. “BJP workers and supporters are not being allowed to enter rescue shelters. They aren’t getting any relief, which are being provided by the state government. We are organising relief materials from the party for them. In some areas, our workers and leader are being attacked when they are going to provide relief,” said Dilip Ghosh, BJP’s state president.Politics of embankment Preliminary assessments carried out by district officials within 48 hours after cyclone Yaas revealed that embankments were damaged in at least 134 places. This irked the CM because officials pointed out many of the embankments which were breached this time were repaired barely a year ago after cyclone Amphan had hit the state.“I can’t allow government money to go down the drain every year. Embankments made out of mud are being damaged every year and the money is going into some people’s pockets,” she said, while directing the finance department to check which embankments were repaired after Amphan and how many were damaged this time.At least 160 km of river embankments and four kilometres of sea dykes were damaged by cyclone Amphan which had hit Bengal on May 20. After the cyclone, Banerjee had said that she would write a letter to the NITI Ayog to send an expert team and find some permanent solution. Nothing moved however.Way back in May 2009, when cyclone Aila had hit the Sunderbans, out of the total girdle of 3,122 km, embankments maintained by the state irrigation department of around 778 km got washed away or severely damaged. The then Manmohan Singh government pumped in more than ₹5,000 crore for repairing the embankments based on a report prepared by an expert committee formed by the government. But only around 20% - 25% work could be done. A substantial portion of the money went back to the Centre as embankments were not repaired for various land related problems.“A vicious cycle exists in the Sunderbans which involves local politicians, engineers and contractors. They thrive on the funds that come in for the regular repair of the embankments. This has been going on for decades, else why would the villagers of Sunderbans suffer from the same problem year after year?” said a former official of the state irrigation department.Tussle over central funds The third recurring layer of controversy — besides the allocation of relief material and the state of embankments — is the tussle between the state and the centre over funds after a cyclone hits.This time, even before the cyclone could hit, Banerjee raised her pitch alleging that the Centre was depriving the state by allocating lesser funds to fight cyclone Yaas compared to what was being allocated for Odisha and Andhra Pradesh.“They (BJP-led centre) have announced an advance fund of ₹600 crore each to Andhra Pradesh and Odisha and a little more than ₹400 crore for West Bengal. I have questioned why Bengal was being deprived,” she said. After the cyclone, Banerjee handed over a report to Prime Minister Narendra Modi claiming that ₹20,000 crore would need to be spent to repair the damage and carry out reconstruction.Also Read | Mamata targets Modi over ‘vendetta politics’“I have submitted the report. We requested him to do what he thinks would be suitable,” she said.Prime Minister Narendra Modi, on Friday, conducted aerial survey of cyclone Yaas impacted areas in West Bengal and Odisha and later announced an immediate financial assistance of ₹1,000 crore.Can Yaas be different?This time, however, the TMC, which returned to power for the third consecutive time, despite facing massive allegations of corruption, is treading with caution. This is more so, because the Calcutta high court has already ordered an audit into allegations of corruption in relief materials after cyclone Amphan based on a PIL.Earlier this week, Banerjee pressed on finding some long term and permanent solution with concrete embankments and planting mangrove on the embankments.“Without proper study, no one can say for sure which is a permanent solution. While in some areas concrete embankments may have worked, it may not stand the river’s force and storm surge in other areas where the soil characteristics and slope many be different. There, natural structures strengthened by local mangrove species or geo-textile may be suitable,” said Tuhin Ghosh, director of School of Oceanographic Studies at Jadavpur University.After facing a severe backlash allegedly because of local panchayat leaders over corruption and nepotism in relief distribution, this time, the CM has announced that the relief work would be done directly by the government, instead of local panchayats, and benefits would be directly transferred to the bank accounts of affected persons after proper enquiry.“We need to undertake a proper survey before starting the reconstruction and relief work. For this, we would start a project ‘Duaare Tran’ (relief at doorsteps). Camps would be held in villages between June 3 and June 18 where people can deposit drop their application detailing the damage to houses and croplands. Enquiry would be done between June 19 and June 30. The money will reach the affected persons directly between July 1 and July 8,” she added.The BJP, which won 77 of the 292 seats in the recently polls, said it would prefer to wait and watch how relief reaches the actual victims in a corruption-free manner.“The TMC, in a bid to make the three-tier panchayat system Opposition-free, has totally destroyed the system. BJP workers are not being allowed to enter relief camps. We apprehend whether they would be able to reach the camps of Duaare Tran when they are set up. These are all announcements made by the chief minister. Let us see how this works out,” said Samik Bhattacharya, BJP spokesperson in the state.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/in-bengal-a-political-battle-over-cyclone-relief-erupts-again-101622445768229.html
31-05-2021||India||France to send more liquid oxygen, oxygen plants and concentrators||France said on Monday it will deliver at least 16 more oxygen generation plants and step up the supply of liquid oxygen as additional support for India to cope with a second wave of Coronavirus infections. This is the “largest solidarity operation” that France has carried out since the beginning of the pandemic and it reflects the “long-standing, two-way solidarity” between the two countries that is at the “heart of our strategic partnership”, said a statement from the French embassy. A special cargo flight with 10 oxygen generation plants is set to reach India in mid-June and another flight will follow with more plants. Each of these high capacity plants produces 24,000 litres of oxygen an hour non-stop and can make a 250-bed hospital self-reliant in oxygen for a dozen years. France delivered eight oxygen generation plants in early May and plans to deliver at least twice as many in the coming week, the statement said. The support provided by the plants brings immediate relief and long-term capacities, it added. Over the past three weeks, an oxygen bridge set up across the Indian Ocean by France and India has brought in 180 tonnes of liquid oxygen donated by the French multinational Air Liquide from a facility in Qatar. Containers are filled in Qatar, shipped to India by the Indian Navy and then brought back empty by the Indian Air Force for refilling. This supply of liquid oxygen is being extended until the end of June, which will enable the delivery of several hundred tonnes of oxygen. Also Read | Covid-19: Should India start opening up?France will also deliver several hundred oxygen concentrators and high-grade ventilators to India in the coming days. The additional support is being provided at the request of President Emmanuel Macron so that the two countries can continue fighting the second wave of the pandemic together, the statement said. The total support from France, including contributions from the government, individuals, NGOs, private companies and French regions, amounts to more than ₹55 crore. French ambassador Emmanuel Lenain said: “As discussed between President Macron and Prime Minister [Narendra] Modi in their May 26 call, France is doubling its support to India against the pandemic. It shows the solidarity of the French people, who have not forgotten that India helped us when France faced its first wave. “There cannot be global victory against the virus without India. Together, we can show the way of international cooperation against the pandemic and the need for a multilateral response.” France’s solidarity mission, which is part of the European Union’s (EU) coordinated response to the Covid-19 crisis, pools the resources of the French government, more than 50 French companies active in India and the Indo-French Chamber of Commerce and Industry. The EU had activated its Civil Protection Mechanism, which responds to emergencies in Europe and beyond, last month in response to a request from India.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/france-to-send-more-liquid-oxygen-oxygen-plants-and-concentrators-101622444508816.html
31-05-2021||India||Woman Maoist carrying reward of ₹2 lakh killed in Chhattisgarh’s Dantewada||A suspected woman Maoist carrying a reward of ₹2 lakh on her head was gunned down by the security forces in Chhattisgarh’s Dantewada district on Monday. Police said they recovered 24-year old Vaiko Pekko’s body from the encounter spot along with two country-made firearms, an improvised explosive device (IED) weighing 2 kg, other Maoist publicity material, medicines and items of daily use.“The encounter took place at 6.30am near Gumalnar village under Geedam police station limits when a team of the district reserve guard (DRG) was out on an anti-Maoist operation. Later, during the search, the body of Pekko was recovered,” said Dantewada superintendent of police (SP) Abhishek Pallava.Police said Pekko was a resident of Bhairamgarh of Bijapur district and she was active as a member of the PLGA (People’’s Liberation Guerrilla Army) platoon no.16.“She carried a reward of ₹2 lakh on her head. Search in the nearby jungle is still going on,” said the SP.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/woman-maoist-carrying-reward-of-rs-2-lakh-killed-in-chhattisgarh-s-dantewada-101622443428575.html
31-05-2021||India||As they turn to digital devices, children face enhanced cyber sexual harassment||When a 14-year-old girl’s parents in Delhi’s Shahdara district bought her a mobile phone last year to facilitate her online classes, a result of the restrictions imposed on schools to curb the spread of the pandemic, little did they realise the possible social media abuse she may be subjected to.Over the next year, what followed were classes during the school hours and social media indulgence for much of the remaining period. She garnered hundreds of followers on her social media sites, befriended dozens of other users and casually chatted with a few of them.Among those many users she had bonded with over the past few months was a person with a criminal bent. When his proposal of sexual relations with the girl was turned down, he hounded her by stalking her on social media sites by creating multiple fake accounts, shooting abusive emails from different identities, and finally threatening to morph and upload her images on social media sites.For three long days, the girl bore the threats in the hope that they would fade away if she did not respond. When she could take it no more, she gathered the courage to confide in her parents who immediately approached the local police.Despite him using VPN to mask his online credentials, the police were able to nab the suspect in less than six hours. According to the police, he was a 17-year-old boy who got in touch with this girl with the sole aim of sexually abusing her.Police investigators said the girl was luckier than many other girls in a similar situation.Also Read | Covid-19: Should India start opening up?She was able to hold herself from giving in to the demands of the blackmailer, she did not share her private images with him, she did not let the blackmailing continue for way too long, she could gather the courage to confide in her parents, her parents chose to immediately approach the police rather than silencing her and the police were able to trace the suspect before he could upload her edited images online.But the crisis is deeper. Police and child safety experts say while the sexual abuse over social media is rampant, only a small percentage of children are able to stand up against the abusers and even fewer go on to report them to the authorities.According to data released by the National Crime Records Bureau (NCRB), there were 2,266 cases of sexual exploitation registered by cyber branches across India in 2019. Of these, at least 266 were minors.The under-reporting of casesVarun Pathak, chairperson of Child Welfare Committee (CWC), says that only a tiny fraction of online sexual abuse of children is reported, even as such crimes are rising rapidly ever since the pandemic resulted in mobile phones landing in the hands of a large number of children.The Delhi Police’s comparative data of cyber crimes last year before and during the lockdown suggested a three-time rise. For example, only 48 cyber crimes were reported in Delhi every day in January last year, compared to over 135 such crimes in May when the lockdown was at its peak. And nearly one in every four of these cyber crimes was social media harassment that included morphing photos of people and sexually harassing them.“Every child suddenly had a mobile phone in her or his hand during the pandemic. Apart from the classes, the children were using them for accessing social media. We went ahead by arming the children with mobile phones, but did not prepare for the side effects which involved widespread abuse,” says Pathak.While there is no immediate data specific to India to suggest the impact the social media usage has on the children, a survey by Plan International — a rights group for girls – showed that nearly 60% of girls in 22 countries, including India, experienced harassment on social media.Also Read | The battle of our times: State versus Big TechThe study, which was reported by Reuters, revealed that one in every five girls cut down on social media usage due to the harassment.The vulnerability of children This is not to suggest that abusers target only girls. In fact, a recent incident in outer Delhi involved the adult owner of an NGO being blackmailed by her driver who recorded her private video and threatened to upload it online. The victim in this case did give in to his demands the first time, but went on to record his threats and report him to police when he persisted with the blackmail.The police say adults are better placed to deal with social media abuse than children are.“Children are more exposed to this abuse because of their increasing presence on social media. Unlike adults, the children are unable to stand up to the blackmailers. They don’t know how to tackle such a situation. They fear that their future would be ruined if their identities were revealed. They are afraid to confide in their parents since not every guardian handles these issues with empathy,” says R Sathiyasundaram, deputy commissioner of police (Shadara district).He said that these are the reasons why the police take every precaution to ensure the identities of the victims are protected.Also Read | People with disabilities suffer as Covid limits access to care“If a child wishes to register her complaint with us without the knowledge of her parents, we are ready to oblige them as long as they are accompanied by a caretaker such as a friend or a relative,” says Sathiyasundaram, the officer in-charge of solving the crime where the 14-year-old girl was subject to harassment.The role of support systems But before these harassed children approach the police, they usually reach out to their family, teachers or friends. And teachers say they understand this.“At our school, I have a blunt way of making girls aware of these threats. We bluntly tell them about how these abusers generally approach girls, how they should be identified and how should they be dealt with. My simple advice to children is to say a direct ‘no’ when a stranger on social media asks for their images or personal details,” says Awadhesh Kumar Jha, principal of Sarvodaya Co-Ed Vidyalaya in Rohini Sector 8.Every other month, Jha receives a complaint about his girl students being abused on social media. “Despite our efforts, most children hide these complaints from us,” says Jha.One recent occasion when a student reached out to him for help was in January, but only after a man in his late 20s began threatening a 15-year-old girl about a knife attack if she refused to marry him.“I immediately called the girl’s parents, asked her to confide in them and advised them to approach the police. The threats ceased after the abuser was threatened with police case,” says Jha.The principal says that it is more difficult to deal with strangers turning into abusers than known schoolmates playing the same role. “If it is a boy from the school, or someone known to the girl, I call the abuser and deal with him personally. But it is not the same case with strangers,” he says.The nature of crimesPolice officers say that these sexual cyber crimes against children mainly involve bullying, stalking, morphing photographs and threatening to upload private images on social media. The abusers could range from acquaintances and school mates to strangers befriended on social media sites.Some of the recent crimes in which children were targeted show that abusers have even donned fake identities to be able to easily befriend minor girls and then extort from them without getting traced by the police.One such recent crime occurred in outer Delhi where a 13-year-old girl was lured into sharing her private images with a barber who posed as a rich youngster on a social media site. Once she sent across her photos, the man began pressuring her to bring in money if she didn’t want her images to be shared on social media.Also Read | The priority sector lending India needsAfter making desperate but failed attempts to arrange the money, the girl confided in her parents, eventually leading to the arrest of the suspect. The police were able to seize his phone, in which the private images were saved, before he could upload them on social media.The suspect allegedly turned out to be a serial abuser who blackmailed several girls before landing in police net.The police response Chinmoy Biswal, spokesperson of Delhi Police, who has served as head of various police districts in Delhi, says that the first priority of the police on receiving such complaints is to ensure the images and videos used to blackmail the victims are not released.“Our focus is on assuring the girl that we would do everything to prevent the uploading of her images and videos. In such cases, while arresting the suspect, we simultaneously work on recovering his electronic devices and ensuring he hasn’t shared the photos and videos with anyone else,” says Biswal.Most of these crimes require meticulous investigation, police investigators say.Atul Kumar Thakur, DCP of South district where quite a few such cases have been cracked in the recent months, says that a timely reaction is of utmost importance in such cases.“On certain occasions, delays in response by internet service providers or authorities of social media sites lead to prolonging of investigation. It also becomes difficult when the abusers use sophisticated tools to hide their identity. But our focus remains on ensuring that the suspect is arrested at the earliest and the digital evidence is sent for forensic analysis,” says Thakur.The police’s priority in such cases usually is to prevent the suspect from being alerted, lest he uploads the private photos and videos on the internet.Ranjana Prasad, member of the Delhi Commission for Protection of Child Rights Act (DCPCR), says that the only and best way for a girl – in case she ends up getting blackmailed – is to reach out to parents.“If the parents approach the police, there is a high chance that the police, at least in Delhi, turn active. In the few cases I have noticed, the deputy commissioners of police have taken personal interest to ensure FIRs and pursue action,” says Prasad. Prasad urges girls to call on the DCPCR’s helpline number, 9311551393, if they do end up trapped.The legal framework It is not that there are no laws in place to protect the children from cyber abuse, say experts.“People should know that under the Protection of Children from Sexual Offences (POCSO) Act, even possessing a nude image of a child in your electronic device is liable to ₹5,000 fine. It doesn’t matter that you received it from a stranger on WhatsApp or Telegram,” says Pathak.And if someone is caught sharing such images and videos, it could attract a jail term of up to five years. If the sharing happens for commercial purposes, the jail term could extend to seven years, Pathak says. Moreover, the police are required to ensure that no complaints of cyber abuse of children are ignored. “If a police personnel ignores such a complaint, there is a jail term of up to a year,” Pathak adds.As for keeping the children aware and alert from social media harm, the CBSE, the Indian Government and other agencies working for children and students regularly share guidelines. “The crux of these guidelines is what we use to guide the children,” says principal Jha.Yet, all that is not enough to keep the children safe and the biggest hindrance to pursuing such abusers remains the fear among children.“We just want to assure the children that if they approach us with a complaint, we guarantee to protect their identity and do our best to protect their dignity,” says DCP Sathiyasundaram.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/as-they-turn-to-digital-devices-children-face-enhanced-cyber-sexual-harassment-101622443248292.html
31-05-2021||India||Please smell the coffee: Supreme Court tells govt over vaccination policy||The Centre on Monday informed the Supreme Court that it is confident of vaccinating all of the country’s adult citizens against coronavirus disease (Covid-19) by the end of this year as it faced several questions over its ongoing inoculation drive.Highlighting the ongoing crisis of shortage of vaccine doses in the country, the top court said that the central government should take charge of sourcing the jabs for the entire country. This comes amid reports of several states floating global tenders to procure vaccine doses after facing severe scarcity."In a national crisis, the central government should procure vaccines for the entire country. States are left in a lurch. You should tell them that we will negotiate globally and procure vaccines for them so that there is clarity," a three-member bench of justice DY Chandrachud, justice LN Rao and justice S Ravindra Bhat told Solicitor General Tushar Mehta.Also read: India's daily Covid-19 cases fall further to 152,734; new deaths at 3,128During the top court’s suo moto hearing on Covid-19 crisis management in the country, the government explained its plan of vaccinating all citizens and claimed that the domestic production of vaccines will suffice the demands of doses.Solicitor General Mehta said that the doses produced by domestic vaccine manufacturers—the Serum Institute of India, Bharat Biotech and Reddy's Lab—will be enough to vaccinate all over 18 years of age. The government is in talks with companies like Pfizer and if it succeeds, then the timeline for completing the vaccination would change, the top law officer said.Seeking a broad idea of the government's plan to vaccinate people over the age of 45, the bench asked SG Mehta to explain how the logistics work out. The bench also emphasised the need for one price of the vaccine across the country, stating the deadly coronavirus pandemic has evolved in the last two months.“The Centre says it gets low pricing since it buys in bulk. If this is the rationale, then why do states have to get a higher price. There needs to be one price for the vaccines across the nation. The pandemic has evolved in the last two months," Justice Chandrachud told the Centre.Justice Chandrachud also asked the government how it plans to address the digital divide among rural and urban India as vaccination slots across the country can only be booked through the CoWIN mobile application.Covid-19: What you need to know today"What about the digital divide? For rural areas, you have said villagers can register on CoWIN app through NGOs. Our law clerks and secretaries have tried to register on CoWIN app so we know how it works," Justice Chandrachud told SG. "How are you answering the digital divide? How are you ensuring that the migrant workers are able to get vaccinated?" he asked.SG Mehta explained that the government has allowed walk-in registrations for those over 45 and also workplace vaccinations. However, SG Mehta said that walk-in vaccination will pave way for overcrowding and waiting for people at the centres."Please smell the coffee. If we had to do we would have done so 15 days ago. But we want you to smell the coffee and realise what's happening in the country and make the necessary amendments," Bar and Bench reported, quoting Justice Chandrachud.The top court bench, headed by Justice DY Chandrachud, constituted National Task Force (NTF) earlier this month to assess and recommend the need and distribution of oxygen in the country.The 12-member National Task Force was asked to formulate a methodology for the scientific allocation of oxygen to the states and Union territories for saving lives of Covid patients and to facilitate a public health response to the Covid-19 pandemic.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/confident-of-vaccinating-all-above-18-by-2021-end-govt-tells-supreme-court-101622441149742.html
31-05-2021||India||World No Tobacco Day 2021: Why you should quit smoking now more than ever||Every year on May 30, the World Health Organization (WHO) observes World No Tobacco Day to spread awareness about the dangers of using tobacco. The day takes more importance this year as countries across the world are battling coronavirus (Covid-19), a respiratory disease.For this year, the world health body has launched a campaign, 'Commit to Quit,' to observe the day. While launching the campaign, it urged all countries to play their part by joining and creating tobacco-free environments by giving people the information, support, and tools they need to quit and quit for good.It also said that the raging Covid-19 pandemic has led to millions of tobacco users wanting to quit. "Nearly 60% of tobacco users around the world want to quit smoking, but only 30% of the global population have access to quality tobacco cessation services," it said on its website.Currently, only 23 countries provide comprehensive cessation services to help tobacco users to quit, it also mentioned.Over the last two years, many studies have indicated that smoking and chewing tobacco can substantially increase the chance of adverse impact on the immune system of Covid-19 patients."Tobacco adversely affects the immune system and impairs lung function, making users more vulnerable to developing respiratory infections like colds, influenza, tuberculosis, pneumonia, chronic obstructive pulmonary disease (COPD)," news agency ANI quoted Dr Vikas Maurya, director of pulmonology at Fortis Hospital in Delhi’s Shalimar Bagh, as saying."Covid-19 is an infectious disease that mainly attacks the lungs and tobacco use continues to be one of the biggest public health threats especially during this time," he also said.According to the data published on WHO's site, tobacco kills more than 8 million people every year around the world. Out of this, more than 7 million deaths are the result of direct tobacco use while around 1.2 million are the result of non-smokers being exposed to second-hand smoke, it also informed on its website.While cigarette smoking is the most common form of tobacco use worldwide, other uses products include waterpipe tobacco, various smokeless tobacco products, cigars, cigarillos, roll-your-own tobacco, pipe tobacco, bidis and kreteks.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/world-no-tobacco-day-2021-why-you-should-quit-smoking-now-more-than-ever-101622440796008.html
31-05-2021||India||London legal eagles to protect Choksi from extradition to India||The case related to the extradition of fugitive diamantaire Mehul Choksi, who is admitted to a hospital in Dominica, after his dramatic escape from Antigua and Barbuda and subsequent capture, is likely to be heard in the Commonwealth Court of Justice on June 2, officials aware of the development said on Monday.A Dominican court has extended till June 2 its order restraining the extradition of Choksi from Dominica. The court will next hear the matter on June 2 as Choksi has moved a habeas corpus plea.Choksi’s lawyers claimed that the absconding billionaire was “abducted” and taken to the island nation of Dominica by “force”.READ MORE: Private jet in Dominica is from India, confirms Antigua PMHowever, HT learns that India’s Enforcement Directorate will take a plea in the court that Choksi remains an Indian citizen even though he has a passport issued by Antigua and Barbuda, as is in Dominica illegally, on the grounds that he is a absconder in case of a multi-billion fraud and that he has an Interpol Red Corner Notice against his name, and that he should, therefore, be deported to India.But the key part of ED’s argument, HT learns, will be that while Choksi surrendered his Indian passport in September 2018 in Georgetown Guyana, this was not accepted and the surrender documents were not signed by the prescribed authority. ED will argue, citing Rule 23 of India’s Citizenship Act, that the prescribed authority in this case is the ministry of home affairs.The ED has obtained the following information in support of its proof that Choksi remains an India citizen:1. Bank Account Opening Form of M/s. Asmi Jewellery India Pvt. Ltd. dated 15.06.2010 with Punjab National Bank:It bears signatures of Mehul Choksi as director of the company at page 9 and 15. He has also signed at page 14 as 1st Authorized Signatory of the company opposite to his photograph. In the customer master form attached with the account opening form, Mehul Choksi has clearly mentioned his nationality as Indian at column no. 6 of page 16 and signed the form as customer at page 19. The Income tax Return acknowledgement issued by the Indian Income Tax department to Mehul Choksi having PAN No. AABPC1415E is attached at page 20. At page no. 21, copy of PAN Card issued by Income Tax Department, Government of India vide no. AABPC1415E to Mehul Choksi is also attached with the form.2. Bank Account Opening Form of M/s. Gitanjali Gems Ltd. for Account No. 3731008702687143 with Punjab National Bank:It bears signatures of Mehul Choksi below his photograph as 1st Authorized person and also across his photograph at page 6. In the customer master form attached with the account opening form, Mehul Choksi has clearly mentioned his nationality as Indian at column no. 1 under Personal details at page 14, where his photograph is affixed and signed by him across as well as below the photograph. He has also signed the form as applicant at page 17.3. A copy of PAN Card issued by Income Tax Department:The PAN card issued to Mehul Choksi by the government of India vide no. AABPC1415E proves that he is a tax payer in India.4. The ED also procured the details of Indian passports issued to Choksi from time-to-time. The details are as follows:a. Passport no. G2453252 and Passport application of Mehul Choksi (date of issue: 27.03.2007):This passport issued to Mr. Mehul Choksi was valid from 27.03.2007 to 28.03.2017 and the passport shows his Nationality as Indian. The Passport Application bears his photograph, signature and thumb impression at page 1 of the application. Under column no. 5 of Passport Application, he has mentioned his place of birth as “Mumbai, Maharashtra, India” and under column no. 21 of the application, he has signed a self declaration “I have not lost, surrendered or been deprived of citizenship of India”. The application was received at Regional Passport Office, Mumbai on 26.03.2007, as per the seal affixed at page 1 of the application.READ MORE: ‘Choksi still Indian citizen’: ED’s likely line of argument in courtb. Passport no. Z1776927 and Passport application of Mehul Choksi (date of issue: 19.10.2007):This passport of Mr. Mehul Choksi valid from 19.10.2007 to 18.10.2017 was issued on cancellation of his earlier passport no. G2453252 and the passport shows his Nationality as Indian. The Application Form for this passport bears his photograph and signature on page 1. Under column no. 5 of Passport Application, he has mentioned his place of birth as “Mumbai, India” and at column no. 14, he has mentioned that he is a citizen of India by Birth and at column no. 19, he has signed a self declaration “I have not lost, surrendered or been deprived of citizenship of India”. The application was received at Regional Passport Office, Mumbai on 12.10.2007, as per the seal affixed at page 1 of the application.c. Passport no. Z2198941 and Passport application of Mehul Choksi (date of issue: 24.03.2011):This passport of Mr. Mehul Choksi valid from 24.03.2011 to 23.03.2021 was issued on cancellation of his earlier passport no. Z1776927 and the passport shows his Nationality as Indian. The signed Application Form dtd. 21.03.2011 for this passport bears his photograph and signature on page 1. Under column no. 5 of Passport Application, he has mentioned his place of birth as “Mumbai, Maharashtra,” . At column no. 14, he has mentioned that he is a citizen of India by Birth and at column no. 19, he has signed a self declaration “I have not lost, surrendered or been deprived of citizenship of India”.d. Passport no. Z3396732 and Passport application of Mehul Choksi (date of issue: 10.09.2015):This passport of Mr. Mehul Choksi valid from 10.09.2015 to 09.09.2025 was issued due to exhaustion of pages of his earlier passport no. Z2198941 and the passport shows his Nationality as Indian. The signed Application Form dtd. 09.09.2015 for this passport bears his photograph and signature on page 1. In this Passport Application, he has mentioned his place of birth as “Mumbai, Maharashtra, India” at page 1 and he has mentioned that he is a citizen of India by Birth in this application and at page no. 2, he has signed a self-declaration “I have not lost, surrendered or been deprived of citizenship of India” and at page 3 he has signed as applicant.5. Agreement between M/s. Gitanjali Gems Ltd. and Mr. Mehul Choksi executed on 04.10.2012A copy of agreement executed between M/s. Gitanjali Gems Ltd. and Mr. Mehul Choksi on 04.10.2012, which was submitted to Registrar of Companies, Maharashtra wherein Mr. Mehul Choksi is submitting a signed affidavit that he is an Indian National at page 1. In this agreement at para 2, the shareholders have approved re-appointment of Mr. Mehul Choksi as Managing Director for a further period of five years with effect from 01.08.2012. Mr. Mehul Choksi has signed at the bottom of every page of this agreement.HT has learnt that Choksi has flown in four heavy-duty lawyers from London to represent him in the court on June 2.Choksi and his nephew Nirav Modi are wanted in India for allegedly siphoning off ₹13,500 crore of public money from the state-run Punjab National Bank (PNB) using letters of undertaking.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/london-legal-eagles-to-protect-choksi-from-extradition-to-india-101622437862719.html
31-05-2021||India||UP to ease Covid curfew in districts with less than 600 active cases||The Uttar Pradesh government on Sunday announced relaxation in the statewide Covid curfew on weekdays in districts with less than 600 active cases with effect from June 1. There are 55 such districts in the state at present, excluding the capital city of Lucknow.The weekend curfew (Saturdays and Sundays) and the night curfew (7pm to 7am) will continue statewide as before. Also, there will be no easing of the curbs in any of the containment zones in the state.This is the first time the government announced relaxations since the partial curfew was introduced on April 30. It was extended several times thereafter. The last extension was till 7am on May 31.Also Read | Yogi Adityanath announces ₹10 lakh assistance for kin of journalists who died due to Covid-19The order issued by UP chief secretary RK Tiwari said, “Relaxations will automatically come into force in any district where active Covid cases fall below 600. The restrictions will automatically return in any district where active cases go up to 600 (or beyond).”All markets and shops will be allowed to open on weekdays (Monday to Friday) from 7am to 7pm in all these districts.“The enforcement of the existing Covid restrictions will be done rigorously in the [remaining] 20 districts to bring down the number of active cases there. The home department will issue more guidelines for this,” said a government spokesperson.Shopping malls, cinema halls, coaching institutes, swimming pools and bars will stay closed across the state till further orders. But restaurants can operate for home deliveries across the state. All districts are allowed to let roadside (highways and expressways) dhabas, carts, and kiosks to function.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/up-to-ease-covid-curfew-in-districts-with-less-than-600-active-cases-101622440007698.html
31-05-2021||India||Chhattisgarh announces ₹5 lakh for kin of journalists who died due to Covid-19||Chhattisgarh government on Sunday announced an assistance of ₹5 lakh for families of media persons dying due to Covid-19. The government said it will also reimburse their expenses incurred for Covid treatment at hospitals under the Chhattisgarh Media Representative Welfare Assistance Rules.“Information about families of media personnel afflicted with Covid-19 is being collected by the directorate of public relations,” a press release by the directorate stated.A senior official of the directorate said a total of 30 media persons have died in the state due to Covid-19 till now. He also invited the affected families to submit applications in a prescribed format to the public relations offices in respective districts.On Sunday, the Uttar Pradesh government also announced a financial assistance of ₹10 lakh to kin of journalists, who have died due to Covid-19. Early this month, Chhattisgarh’s neighbour Odisha announced an ex gratia of ₹15 lakh for the next of kin of journalists who die of Covid-19 while performing their duty.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/chhattisgarh-announces-rs-5-lakh-aid-for-families-of-journalists-who-died-due-to-covid19-101622439527709.html
31-05-2021||India||Meghalaya Raj Bhavan has 43 Covid cases||Twenty-five persons tested positive for Covid-19 on Sunday at Meghalaya’s Raj Bhavan, taking the total active cases there to an alarming 43.A Raj Bhavan communiqué said a mass testing of high-risk contacts of positive cases was conducted on the its premises after 18 positive cases on May 24.“Out of 80 high risk contacts tested, 25 have been declared positive. This takes the total figure of positive cases among staff and their family to 43,” the communiqué revealed. Of these, 10 are children below the age of 15 years while three are with co-morbidities.Also Read | Meghalaya holds multi-faith prayer meet for Covid controlThe statement admitted that the second wave of Covid-19 has been challenging for the Raj Bhavan which is recovering from last month’s surge in cases when 28 people tested positive simultaneously. Twenty-three of these have recovered since.What is worrisome is that most of the positive cases are personal staff working in the main building and in close contact of Governor Satya Pal Malik.The communiqué said the Raj Bhavan secretariat and doctor are closely monitoring the situation and extending help to the affected persons with medical treatment, counselling and other support to the families.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/meghalaya-raj-bhavan-has-43-covid-cases-101622438687551.html
31-05-2021||India||'Project of national importance': Delhi High Court junks plea to halt Central Vista||The Delhi High Court on Monday dismissed a plea seeking to halt construction work at Central Vista Avenue in the national capital, saying it was a motivated petition. The court said the project was of national importance.The high court said the Public Interest Litigation or PIL was not genuine and also imposed a fine of  ₹1 lakh on the petitioners citing lack of bonafide on their side.A bench of Chief Justice DN Patel and Justice Jyoti Singh was hearing the plea by Anya Malhotra, a translator, and Sohail Hashmi, a historian and documentary filmmaker, seeking to halt the ongoing part redevelopment of the Central Vista Avenue which includes both sides of Rajpath where Republic Day celebration are held. They contended that the project was not an essential activity and therefore, could be put on hold for now during the coronavirus pandemic.Also read: Labourers at Central Vista project follow Covid protocols, Centre tells Delhi HCThe bench said that clearance to the project has already been upheld by the Supreme Court. There is no question of suspending the work since the workers are residing at the construction site, the bench said, adding that the work on the project has to be completed in a time-bound manner.“The whole Central Vista is an essential project of national importance where the sovereign functions of the Parliament will be conducted. The public is widely interested in this project,” it said.Also read | Central Delhi roads will need to expand due to Central Vista project: ReportStating that Covid-19 safety protocols are being followed and there is no reason to stall construction, the court said the workers are staying at the site and all the facilities have been provided to them.On May 17, the court reserved its order on the plea. The petitioners moved the Supreme Court against the high court’s May 4 order adjourning their plea to May 17. The high court adjourned the matter saying it wanted to study the top court’s January 5 judgment giving a go-ahead to the Central Vista project. The Centre said that the petition is an attempt to halt the project with oblique motives.The Central Vista project envisages constructing a new Parliament House, a new residential complex that will house the Prime Minister and the vice president, as well as several new office buildings and a central secretariat to accommodate ministry offices.The new parliament complex and buildings that are being built as part of the Central Vista redevelopment project will have parking for at least 16,000 cars, and while that may mean a likely increase in traffic volume in the area, enough mitigation measures will be put in place to ensure there is no congestion or impact on traffic movement, the architectural consultant for the project said.Also read: Central Vista revamp to have space to park 16,000 carsLutyens’ Delhi’s key roads will need to be upgraded to 4-8 lanes by 2031 to accommodate the growth in traffic, both routine and on account of the Central Vista project, according to a traffic impact analysis.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/project-of-national-importance-delhi-hc-junks-plea-to-halt-central-vista-101622437749486.html
31-05-2021||India||Kerala assembly passes resolution seeking recall of Lakshadweep administrator||The Kerala legislative assembly on Monday passed a unanimous resolution demanding the recall of Lakshadweep administrator Praful Khoda Patel over the recent draft Lakshadweep Development Authority Regulation (2021) and new rules which have sparked protests on the island.The resolution was moved by chief minister Pinarayi Vijayan. “The people of Lakshadweep are undergoing a difficult situation. Their culture and tradition are under threat following dictatorial measures being taken by the administrator ignoring local protests. Even their food habits and livelihood are under threat,” said the resolution. It also pointed out the island’s long-standing relations with the state and said the Sangh Parivar is making the island another laboratory and people of the country will not allow that to happen. Also Read | Understanding the discontent in Lakshadweep: An explainer“People of the island are peace-loving. The administrator is taking many measures to alienate them. In the name of development, even their livelihood is threatened. Even coconut trees are painted with saffron colour in the name of beautification. This can’t be allowed at any cost,” it said. After Patel’s recall, all his controversial decisions should be withdrawn, it said. “Steps are being taken to eliminate beef which is an important part of the staple food. Measures are also being taken to ban cow slaughter and close dairy farms. The administrator is taking the lead in gradually destroying the life and culture of the people of Lakshadweep,” it said. An archipelago in the Arabian Sea, Lakshadweep is in the eye of a storm for the past two weeks after the administrator brought in a new set of rules. The issue also hit national headlines after many Congress and CPI(M) MPs wrote to the President, alleging that administrator Patel, a former home minister of Gujarat, was trying to “saffronise the island by imposing many new rules inimical to island culture”. The Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) has defended the new rules strongly and said people with vested interests were spreading misinformation. It said the administration was trying to develop the island as a major tourist hub, like Maldives, and local people supported its endeavour. But this has failed to placate party leaders on the island with many of them quitting the party in protest. A delegation of the party is in Delhi to apprise home minister Amit Shah about the ground situation. “We condemn the resolution. Earlier the assembly had passed a resolution to free cleric Abdul Nassar Madani, accused in a bomb blast case. Later he was re-arrested and now he’s languishing in a jail in Karnataka,” said party state president K Surendran. Meanwhile, the administration has denied permission to a team of MPs from Kerala to visit the island, citing Covid-19 protocol. On Sunday, supporters of the “Save Lakshadweep campaign” observed a black day on social media by painting their home page black.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/kerala-assembly-passes-resolution-seeking-recall-of-lakshadweep-administrator-101622437247627.html
31-05-2021||India||Centre to take action against WB chief secretary Alapan Bandyopadhyay||The Centre will initiate disciplinary action against West Bengal chief secretary Alapan Bandyopadhyay after he failed to report to the department of personnel, public grievances and pensions (DoPT) in New Delhi as ordered, people familiar with the development said on Monday. The central government transferred Bandopadhyay to DoPT on Friday, ordering the top civil servant to report by 10am on Monday, after a row broke out over West Bengal chief minister Mamata Banerjee skipping a meeting convened by the PM during his visit to the state to review the impact of Cyclone Yaas.Meanwhile, Mamata wrote to Prime Minister Narendra Modi saying she is "shocked and stunned" by the Center’s unilateral order" asking Bandyopadhyay to report to DoPT.Also read | Mamata targets Modi over ‘vendetta politics’“The unilateral "order" comes without any prior consultation whatsoever with the Government of West Bengal, without any volition / option of the officer, without meeting any of the pre- conditions of the Indian Administrative Service (Cadre) Rules, 1954 and other applicable laws under reference. The unilateral order / directive is legally untenable, historically unprecedented and wholly unconstitutional,” the Bengal chief minister wrote in her five-page letter.“The government of Bengal cannot release, and is not releasing, its Chief Secretary at this critical hour, on the basis of our understanding that the earlier order of extension, issued after lawful consultation in accordance with applicable laws, remains operational and valid," she also said.Also read | ‘Is it because we have won by a landslide?’: Mamata asks BJPBandopadhyay was also present at the chief minister’s brief interaction with Prime Minister Modi at Kalaikunda on Friday afternoon. Mamata Banerjee did not attend the review meeting chaired by PM Modi, saying she had other appointments triggering a political row.Bandopadhyay was due to retire on Monday but Mamata Banerjee announced last week that the Centre cleared her request to let the 1987-batch Indian Administrative Service (IAS) officer from the Bengal cadre continue for three more months since he had the experience of working during last year's Cyclone Amphan and had handled the ongoing coronavirus pandemic.Bandopadhyay has never served in the central government and would not have been empanelled to serve at senior positions in the government.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/centre-to-take-action-against-wb-chief-secretary-alapan-bandyopadhyay-101622436650465.html
31-05-2021||India||'India's image tarnished': Congress minister on bodies of Covid-19 patients found in rivers||Maharashtra Revenue Minister and Congress leader Balasaheb Thorat on Sunday said the scenes of the bodies of Covid-19 victims floating in rivers and lying in the sand in some states have tarnished the image of India in the world.Speaking on the seventh anniversary of the Modi government, he slammed the BJP for the rise in prices of petrol and diesel."Where are the BJP leaders gone now who used to take to streets even when there was a single rupee rise in the petrol prices? Petrol prices have shot up to ₹100 per litre now. Where are these leaders and activists hiding," he asked while speaking to reporters.Thorat took stock of the damage caused by cyclone 'Tauktae' in Palghar and the Covid-19 situation.He said the Maha Vikas Aghadi government has handled the pandemic situation in the state in a proper manner."....In some states bodies (of Covid-19 victims) are floating in rivers and also lying in the sand in the open. This is a matter of shame for the country. This has tarnished the image of India in the world," Thorat said and blamed the Central government for its "failure" in handling the pandemic.He said the MVA was functioning well but the BJP is dreaming of creating a rift."But their dreams will remain a dream only," he said.Thorat alleged that Prime Minister Narendra Modi exported Covid-19 vaccines to embellish his image at the cost of the people of India, which is now facing a crunch."The seven years of Modi government are a total failure," he said, adding the Centre's assurances of giving employment to 2 crore people; depositing ₹15 lakh in bank accounts and containing inflation in 100 days remained unfulfilled.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/indias-image-tarnished-cong-on-bodies-of-covid-19-patients-found-in-rivers-101622435813953.html
31-05-2021||India||Lakshadweep row: Why latest orders have upset locals||Tensions have been simmering in Lakshadweep, an idyllic archipelago of 36 islands, over a number of controversial proposals ranging from a beef ban to the nod to liquor sale, in an Union territory that largely has a Muslim population. Calling the orders "anti-people," critics see new regulations as a threat to the cultural identity of inhabitants and the fragile ecology of the islands.The controversial proposals also include disqualification of people with more than two children who wish to contest the village council elections to taking over land belonging to the locals for the purpose of development. It also seeks to implement the anti-social Activities Regulation bill, 2021, or the goonda act, in the islands where the crime rate is already very low.The local government says that the orders are being introduced for the development of the islands and aims to make it a popular holiday destination like the Maldives. Meanwhile, the Centre has dismissed the criticism saying it is a result of Patel's efforts to end "corrupt practices" involving local politicians prevalent and usher in development there.Here are the key points to know about the row:1) Praful Khoda Patel took over as the new administrator of Lakshadweep in December last year following the death of Dineshwar Sharma the same month. He is also the administrator of the UT of Dadra and Nagar Haveli and Daman and Diu.2) The Union territory has close to 95% Muslim population with Scheduled Tribes status. According to the 2011 census, the population of the archipelago is 64,473. Among 37-odd islands, only 10 are inhabited.3) At the centre of the row is the anti-social Activities Regulation bill, 2021, or the goonda act in the islands' territory where the crime rate is already very low.4) According to the National Crime Records Bureau (2019) report, the island had zero cases of major crimes such as rape, murder, kidnapping and dacoity. The number of violent incidents reported in the island was 16 in 2019 and 13 cases related to liquor and drug-related cases.5) On Lakshadweep Development Authority Regulation, locals allege that this will give sweeping powers to the administrator to take over land forcefully.6) The locals also fear that the regulation will impede the livelihood of traditional fishermen. Fishing is one of the main revenue generators for the people of Lakshadweep.7) It also introduced a proposal to disqualify people with more than two children who wish to contest the village council elections. Islanders say it will rob many of their right to contest in elections.8) Locals also allege that the dilution in the local Covid-19 norms has led to a massive surge in daily cases of coronavirus disease. Not a single case of Covid-19 was reported from the island till December 2020, after which the positivity rate has surged to more than 10%.9) Except Bangaram island, Lakshadweep is a non-alcoholic zone due to its Muslim-majority population. With the administration now planning liquor permits in three more islands, locals fear that it will affect their culture.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/lakshadweep-row-why-latest-orders-have-upset-locals-101622435647517.html
31-05-2021||India||Will never manipulate data to justify forecasts: IMD on monsoon forecast lapse||Monsoon is likely to make onset over Kerala around June 3, two days after its normal onset date of June 1, India Meteorological Department (IMD) said on Sunday.On May 28, the department had said that monsoon was likely to make onset over Kerala on May 31, a day ahead of its normal date. Its May 14 forecast had also predicted the arrival of monsoon over Kerala on May 31, with a possible error margin of plus/minus four days.After very severe cyclone Yaas weakened, scientists said it had helped strengthen monsoon winds. Very heavy to heavy rain was reported in different parts of Kerala on May 27 and 28.But rains stopped and no heavy rain has been recorded over Kerala since then. “It should rain for two consecutive days in a certain number of stations. That has not happened. The westerlies should have a certain depth and it should be very cloudy. All these factors have to be met for us to announce onset [of monsoon]. These conditions may start from June 1 and meet the criteria by June 3,” said M Mohapatra, director general, IMD.Also Read | Dust storm, showers keep Delhi’s temperature lowAddressing the lapse in the forecast, M Rajeevan, secretary, ministry of earth sciences, tweeted,“@Indiametdept will never manipulate data or make statements to justify their forecasts. They admit forecast failures with humility. In weather & monsoon forecasts, no one can be perfect. We are also accountable to Indian tax payers. We show respect to our country.”According to IMD’s monsoon onset parameters, after May 10, 60% of the available 14 stations enlisted-- Minicoy, Amini, Thiruvananthapuram, Punalur, Kollam, Allapuzha, Kottayam, Kochi, Thrissur, Kozhikode, Thalassery, Kannur, Kudulu and Mangalore should report rainfall of 2.5 mm or more for two consecutive days, depth of westerlies should be maintained up to 600 hPa, outgoing longwave radiation (OLR) value should be below 200 wm-2 ( watt per sq metre). OLR represents the total radiation going to space emitted by the atmosphere or the extent of cloudiness.Southwest monsoon normally sets in over Kerala around June 1. It advances northwards, usually in surges, and covers the entire country around July 5.Skymet Weather, a private weather forecasting company, however, announced onset of monsoon on Sunday--May 30, two days ahead of normal monsoon onset date of June 1. “A set of environmental conditions need to be fulfilled as a criterion for the arrival of monsoon. By and large, all parameters have satisfied the required threshold, essentially the rainfall and depth and speed of westerly winds over the southeast Arabian Sea and adjoining equatorial Indian Ocean. Rainfall amounts are verified from the available data on the official website,” Skymet Weather said in a statement.“Often the copybook criteria of monsoon onset is not met. As on today, the westerly wind profile parameter has been met and 60% of the 14 stations have recorded over 2.5 mm rain for consecutive days. OLR is low so that criteria is not met,” explained Mahesh Palawat, vice president, climate change and meteorology, Skymet Weather.“At present, the criteria are not fully satisfied. For example, the rainfall over Kerala has decreased today along with weakening of westerly winds. Also, the depth of westerly winds did not increase up to 4.5 km against the expectation. The convective cloud development leading to enhancement of rainfall activity over Kerala in such a scenario is not expected at least up to June 1,” IMD’s Mohapatra added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/will-never-manipulate-data-to-justify-our-forecasts-imd-on-monsoon-forecast-lapse-101622434727553.html
31-05-2021||India||Meghalaya holds multi-faith prayer meet for Covid control||Meghalaya politicians, religious leaders and residents held a virtual prayer session on Sunday, seeking divine protection from Covid-19 pandemic, which has been on a rampage in the northeastern state.The multi-faith prayer meeting idea was mooted by state health minister Alexander L Hek and supported by chief minister Conrad K Sangma, who hoped for the number of Covid recoveries to consistently exceed fresh positive cases, as witnessed in the last few days.“We are here today to pray for the strength to fight against this crisis…… we are here today to pray for hope to see a better tomorrow and we are here to pray for faith to believe that together with God’s blessings we shall overcome these trying times and come out as a stronger society,” CM Sangma said at the prayer meeting.On Sunday, Meghalaya recorded its highest single-day recovery with 974 Covid patients getting discharged. However, it also recorded deaths of 13 Covid-19 patients and 742 new confirmed cases. 25 of these new cases were confirmed among the Raj Bhavan staff, taking the number of infections in the governor’s house to 43. The Covid death toll in the state has now risen to 564 and the number of active cases stands at 7,496. Meghalaya has so far recorded 35,190 Covid cases including 27,130, who were cured from the disease.The virtual prayer meet ended with a benediction from Shillong Archbishop Victor Lyngdoh. Last year too, a similar program called ‘Meghalaya Prays’ was organised on May 12, when a musical video featuring the CM, government officials and a number of artists praying for the state, was played out.The state government also extended the total lockdown till 5am on June 7 in the state while indicating that capital Shillong in the East Khasi Hills- a major Covid hotspot, will see even more stringent curbs. However, the deputy commissioner of the district has been asked to ensure availability of essential commodities. The onus to impose stricter measures, if deemed necessary, has been delegated to the district magistrates in the state.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/meghalaya-holds-multi-faith-prayer-meet-for-covid-control-101622434187252.html
31-05-2021||India||Gadkari is right man in wrong party, says Congress minister||Maharashtra Minister and senior Congress leader Ashok Chavan on Sunday praised Union Minister Nitin Gadkari saying that he is the right man in the wrong party.Addressing mediapersons via video conferencing, Chavan said, "I often talk about Nitin Gadkari. I had praised him the day before yesterday. He is an efficient minister. There are many issues which are related to basic amenities and infrastructure of Maharashtra. Gadkari takes those subjects seriously. I publicly praise his way of working either by writing articles or via tweets. But praising him does not mean that I support him politically. After all, he is a minister in the NDA government. So all I will say is that he is the right man but in the wrong party."On Sunday when the NDA government at the centre was celebrating the completion of seven years in office, Congress leader Ashok Chavan accused Prime Minister Narendra Modi-led government of failing to deal with the Covid-19 pandemic. He alleged that the Centre has taken all decision-making powers into its hands, but now after the outbreak of Covid-19, it is blaming the state governments.Asked if he had a favourite minister in the NDA government, Chavan replied that "good words" could only be spoken about Union minister Nitin Gadkari who is also the MP from Nagpur. Chavan said Gadkari maintains a "dialogue with other parties despite ideological differences".||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/gadkari-is-right-man-in-wrong-party-says-congress-minister-101622432994063.html
31-05-2021||India||Let private sector make Covid-19 vaccine to fight pandemic: SpiceJet to govt||Avani Singh, the chief executive officer of SpiceHealth and daughter of SpiceJet Ltd. Chairman Ajay Singh, has called upon India’s government to open up the manufacture and procurement of vaccines to the private sector, saying it’s the only way to ensure the nation’s vast population receives adequate protection from the pandemic.“The government needs to become much more lenient in opening up vaccination to the private sector,” Singh said in an interview last week. “We are obviously moving at a much slower pace with vaccinations than we should be. If they let private players like labs and hospitals procure vaccines from Pfizer, Moderna and let private players make Covaxin more aggressively we could significantly ramp up the administration and build up enough immunity to get out of this faster. Not allowing labs and hospitals to procure and facilitate vaccines is a huge untapped potential.”India is suffering the world’s worst Covid-19 outbreak and its health care system is collapsing as it runs short of everything from hospital beds to oxygen cylinders. Although the South Asian nation is one of the world’s biggest vaccine makers, supply locally has run dry amid an expansion of access to everyone aged 18 and above.To date, India’s public health care operators have done nearly all the heavy lifting in treating Covid patients. When fatigue started setting in among workers at state-run hospitals, Mumbai, one of the country’s largest and most-populated cities, invoked a colonial era law to rope in private-sector doctors. Vaccine purchases were also fully controlled by the federal government when only people aged 45 and above were eligible.Mobile Labs“It was criminal what was going on around the country,” Singh said, adding she was getting at least 30 calls a day from people asking for beds, oxygen concentrators and tests because it was taking four days to even get a slot for testing followed by another week for results to come in and people with symptoms weren’t able to get treated without a positive report. “The general perception in the country was we’re done, Covid is gone and that was an incorrect perception to have. To a certain extent it was avoidable and to a large extent we were just not equipped for it.”SpiceHealth was founded in November last year, a time when parent company SpiceJet Ltd., India’s second-largest airline, was hard hit by the pandemic. So much red ink has prompted airlines around the world to look for new revenue streams as they burn through cash. SpiceJet began selling Covid tests for around $4 to passengers to get them back on planes. Low-cost travel pioneer AirAsia Group Bhd. has embraced a similar diversification strategy, expanding its digital operations with an app that can be used for shopping, booking flights and ordering food.SpiceHealth quickly became a first mover in cheap testing, rolling out 499 rupee ($6.90) Covid tests -- one-fifth the then market rate in Delhi. That price is now largely the industry standard. SpiceHealth was also the first to set up mobile labs that can be quickly erected and moved as need be. There are now 15 SpiceHealth mobile labs across five states and each can process as many as 3,000 samples a day.“We got a lot of backlash from private players when we came up with 499 rupee tests,” Singh said. “It’s really about breaking that chain of pricing far above cost and you can recover a lot of that margin with scale. The mobile testing lab model is disruptive and very effective. There are underserved areas around the country where it’s very difficult to ramp up a fixed facility, find manpower and sustain it over a long period of time. With a mobile lab we can provide instant numbers and cover clusters where the need is the highest.”Singh said SpiceHealth, which is profitable and debt-free, would like to offer an end-to-end solution from procurement to transportation and administration of shots and reach remote areas but procuring vaccines as a private company has been a challenge.“The biggest bottleneck with vaccines is the procurement, getting hold of companies that will sell directly to the private sector. That’s the challenge most companies that are trying to get involved are facing,” she said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/let-private-sector-make-covid-19-vaccine-to-fight-pandemic-spicejet-to-govt-101622432953705.html
31-05-2021||India||India's daily Covid-19 cases fall further to 152,734; new deaths at 3,128||India registered a dip in the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) cases recorded in 24 hours for the 47th consecutive day on Monday. With 152,734 fresh Covid-19 cases, the nation's infection tally reached 28,047,534, according to the Union health ministry website. As many as 16,831,35 tests were conducted in the same duration, the health ministry said.Continuing its downward streak, the number of new deaths due to Covid-19 were reported at 3,128 and the country's toll went up to 329,100.The active cases further dropped by 88,416 to stand at 20,260,92, which is now 7.58 per cent of the total infections, while the national Covid-19 recovery rate improved to 91.25 per cent. As many as 238,022 people recovered from the disease in the last 24 hours, taking the total number of recoveries since the start of the pandemic to 25,692,342.The decline in Covid-19 cases in the country is accompanied by the Centre's assurance that India will soon emerge victorious against the pandemic as the international community comes forward to help the nation in its time of need. India has received medical assistance from the US, UK, Canada, Germany, France, and Ukraine among others in the form of oxygen concentrators, ventilators, raw materials for vaccines and PPE kits etc.The Opposition, however, has launched an attack on the government for its "mismanaged" nationwide inoculation drive. Congress leader Rahul Gandhi targeted Prime Minister Narendra Modi over his monthly radio programme 'Mann Ki Baat' and said there was a need for the government to have the "right intention" to fight Covid-19.“You need the right intention, policy and determination to fight Corona (Covid-19) and not just a pointless talk once in a month,” he said in a tweet in Hindi.Meanwhile, the cumulative number of Covid-19 vaccine doses administered in the country so far has reached 21,31,54,129, the health ministry said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/indias-daily-covid-19-cases-fall-further-to-152-734-new-deaths-at-3128-101622430666832.html
31-05-2021||India||News updates from HT: Delhi unlock process begins today and all the latest news||Here are today’s top news, analysis, and opinion. Know all about the latest news and other news updates from Hindustan Times.Covid-19 lockdown: Delhi's unlock process begins from todayDelhi will start the process of partially easing its lockdown measures from Monday onwards, beginning with allowing the construction sector and factories to resume operations as cases of the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) continue to see a steady decline in the national capitalRead more.Amid oil price rise, Centre to distribute free oilseedsIndia’s policymakers, alarmed by the growing prices of edible oils due to high import costs of oilseeds, have decided to re-use a Green Revolution-era strategy of distributing free seed packets, say officials familiar with the move.Read more. June’s Covid vaccine quota to be 120 million after 79 million in MayNearly 120 million vaccine doses will be available for the national Covid vaccination programme in June, the Union ministry of health and family welfare announced on Sunday even as both companies supplying the jabs are looking at ramping up their production capacity to 110-120 million doses from the existing 75-80 million.Read more. Experts fear biodiversity loss in Andaman, Nicobar IslandsA slew of infrastructure projects have been proposed in the Andaman and Nicobar Islands to give a major boost to tourism and business there, according to information released by the central government.Read more. When Rahul Vaidya’s Indian Idol performance left Sonu Nigam aghast: ‘Bad se badtar hoye jaa rahe hai’Singer Rahul Vaidya became a household name when he participated in the first season of the music reality show Indian Idol. While he could not win the trophy, he finished as the second runner-up.Read more. Khushi Kapoor adds a touch of sexy to athleisure in bodysuit and sweatpants, fans love itLeave it to Khushi Kapoor to add a touch of sexy to athleisure. The younger sister of actor Janhvi Kapoor has become the face of Genz-Z approved fashion trends in the country and there is no denying that.Read more.Dravid was able to do that with the focus he had: Former all-rounder highlights 'worrying factor' for India in WTC finalThe final of the World Test Championship is currently the talk of the two. Two evenly-matched sides are competing in the final of this ICC event with the inaugural WTC title on the line.Read more. Watch: Pakistan PM Imran Khan's J&K condition for holding talks with IndiaPakistan Prime Minister Imran Khan reportedly commented on resumption of talks with India. Khan set forth a condition for restarting bilateral dialogue. His caveat pertains to Indian Territory of Jammu & Kashmir.Read more.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/news-updates-from-ht-delhi-unlock-process-begins-today-and-all-the-latest-news-101622430665059.html
31-05-2021||India||Nagaland trails in Covid vaccination; hesitancy in 45+ age group is one cause||Nagaland’s Covid-19 vaccination drive is lagging behind with only 268,628 doses administered till date- the lowest among the northeast states, and the health officials are blaming vaccine hesitancy among residents aged above 45 years as one major reason. In contrast, Manipur and Assam have administered 451,259 and 4,094,259 vaccine doses respectively.“Vaccine availability is not an issue but the problem is there are less takers, particularly among age groups above 45 years, due to various reasons,” says Dr. Ritu Thurr, state immunization officer, directorate of health and family welfare.He says despite the awareness campaign, residents in these age groups are resisting and adopting a “wait and watch” approach, mainly due to rumours and fake news circulating in social media platforms, casting doubts over the efficacy of vaccines.On the other hand, the youth are eager to get vaccinated, giving out hope that this trend would increase converting those who are hesitant at the moment, the officer said.The demand for vaccine doses shot up after the drive was expanded on May 17 for residents aged 18 years and above. Health officials say there has been a steady increase in daily vaccinations since then. Out of the 214,464 people who have been vaccinated in the state, 54,127 beneficiaries have also received the second dose of the vaccine, the officer said.Dr Thurr added that the state initially procured 36,580 vaccine doses for the 18-44 years age group but due to its high demand, the department was releasing fewer daily slots as it awaits arrival of the next batch of 40,700 doses, expected by the first week of June. As on Sunday, Nagaland had 129,690 doses of Covishield left in its stock.On Sunday, Nagaland’s Covid-19 caseload increased to 21,563 with the detection of 192 new cases and the death toll rose to 363 after 13 more Covid-19 patients succumbed to the infection, health minister S Pangyu Phom said. The state has 5,049 active patients while 15,523 people have recovered from the infection so far, he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/nagaland-trails-in-covid-vaccination-hesitancy-in-45-age-group-is-one-cause-101622432151341.html
31-05-2021||India||Lakshadweep unrest: Kerala assembly to pass resolution seeking withdrawal of latest reforms||The Kerala legislative assembly is set to pass a unanimous resolution on Lakshadweep on Monday, pledging solidarity to the residents of the Union territory facing turmoil over a slew of orders.Chief minister Pinarayi Vijayan will introduce the resolution in the morning with a demand to immediately bring a resolution to the concerns of the people of the island. The resolution also seeks withdrawal of the controversial orders, passed by Lakshadweep administrator Praful Khoda Patel, who took over in December last year."The government will move the resolution in the ongoing session. I hope the opposition also will not have any objection and they will support it as many of its members have already raised such a demand. So, there is unanimity on the matter," the Kerala chief minister said earlier.The inhabitants of Lakshadweep are protesting against a new set of orders including the implementation of the anti-social Activities Regulation bill, 2021, or the goonda act, in the island territory. The critics of the law say that the bill is unnecessary as the crime rate of the island is “already very low”.The Lakshadweep government also took over the control of the local administrative powers of the elected zilla panchayat regarding education, healthcare, agriculture, animal husbandry and fisheries. It also gave a nod to liquor sale, banned beef and eliminated non-vegetarian food from the menu of Anganwadi children.Lakshadweep is a non-alcoholic zone as the majority population of the island comprises Muslims.Over the last week, several leaders including Lakshadweep MP and Nationalist Congress Party (NCP) leader Mohammed Faizal, Congress legislator Shafi Parambil, Communist Party of India-Marxist leaders, called on Centre and the local administration to pay heed to public demands and withdraw the new orders."What is happening in Lakshadweep is a cultural invasion to implement the Sangh Parivar agenda of the Central government," said Congress legislator Shafi Parambil in a letter to Kerala chief minister. The administrator was just an instrument to implement the fascist agenda, he further alleged.Congress also wrote a letter to President Ram Nath Kovind and Prime Minister Narendra Modi alleging that the current administrator of Lakshadweep has taken "authoritarian measures" and demanded his recall.Earlier on Sunday, supporters of the 'Save Lakshadweep' campaign observed a black day on social media. Meanwhile, a delegation of MPs from Kerala was denied permission to visit the Arabian sea islands citing Covid control measures.The CPI-M has also decided to stage a protest on May 31 in front of the Lakshadweep offices in Beypore and Kochi.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/lakshadweep-unrest-kerala-assembly-to-pass-resolution-seeking-withdrawal-of-latest-reforms-101622431843449.html
31-05-2021||India||Mehul Choksi tests negative for Covid-19, admitted to hospital: Reports||A day after fugitive diamantaire and multi-crore scam accused Mehul Choksi was shifted to a government quarantine facility in Dominica, the 62-year-old was taken to a hospital in the island nation's capital city of Roseau, according to the local media reports on Monday. Choksi has tested negative for coronavirus disease (Covid-19), report added.The Indian-origin scam accused is now a patient at the Dominica China Friendship Hospital, local media reported said citing his lawyers. According to the reports, Choksi is now admitted at the Imray Wade of the Dominica China Friendship Hospital under heavy police security in a private room.Also read: Mehul Choksi’s first photo in 3 yrs emerges as next stop bursts a controversy in AntiguaThis comes shortly after Choksi's first picture emerged in three years, showing him behind bars and with injuries on his hands and a swollen and bruised left eye. The pictures were released by the Antigua Newsroom. His lawyers have alleged abduction attempt from Jolly Harbour in Antigua and Barbuda by Indian and Antiguan officials.Antigua Prime Minister Gaston Browne on Sunday confirmed that a private jet from India arrived at Douglas-Charles airport.A Bombardier Global 5000 jet of Qatar Executive landed at Dominica’s Douglas Charles airport on Saturday. A publicly accessible flight path shows that it took off from New Delhi on May 28 and reached Dominica via Madrid.On the legal front, a Dominican court has extended till June 2 its order restraining the extradition of Choksi from Dominica. The court will next hear the matter on June 2 as Choksi has moved a habeas corpus plea.Also read | Mehul Choksi repatriation: Private jet in Dominica is from India, confirms Antigua PMAfter Choksi mysteriously disappeared from Antigua last Sunday, a political storm was sparked in Antigua where he is a citizen.Choksi and his nephew Nirav Modi are wanted in India for allegedly siphoning off ₹13,500 crore of public money from the state-run Punjab National Bank (PNB) using letters of undertaking.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/trending/mehul-choksi-tests-negative-for-covid-19-admitted-to-hospital-reports-101622427890490.html
31-05-2021||India||Maha continues to register a dip; records 18,600 fresh Covid cases||Maharashtra recorded 18,600 new Covid-19 cases on Sunday, continuing the trend of a steady decline in fresh cases, taking the tally to 5,731,815. The death toll reached 94,844 with 402 deaths. Mumbai recorded 1,062 new cases and 22 deaths, taking the tally to 704,622. The test positivity rate is 7.36%, the lowest since February 22, when it was 7.12%.Also Read | Health infrastructure gets boost as Delhi preps for next Covid waveThe state has seen a steady drop in fresh cases since May 1. On May 1, it recorded 63,282 cases which came down to 34,848 cases on May 15 and 18,600 on May 30. The state also saw 802 deaths on May 1, which rose to 960 on May 15 and dropped to 402 on May 30. There are currently 271,801 active cases across the state. Pune has 39,466 cases, followed by Mumbai with 28,015 active cases. On Sunday, 252,623 tests were conducted, while the number of recovered people was 22,532.Dr Subhash Salunke, advisor, Maharashtra government on Covid-19 management, said efforts were made to ensure a decline in cases. “We ramped up the number of tests, ensured faster diagnosis as well as medication for the patients and also ensured they get hospital beds in time,” said Dr Salunke. He said the lockdown played a significant role in the dip.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/maha-continues-to-register-a-dip-records-18-600-fresh-covid-cases-101622431247264.html
31-05-2021||India||Man lynched on suspicion of child abduction||Five persons were arrested from Thane in Maharashtra on Sunday for allegedly lynching a 34- year-old man the previous night on suspicion that he was trying to abduct a minor daughter of one of them, police said.The incident occurred on the intervening night of Saturday and Sunday in the Wagle Estate area of the city.Police said one of the accused suspected that the victim, Ramawtar Dhobi, was abducting a minor girl, following which he raised an alarm and attacked Dhobi.Dhobi was thrashed by at least ten people, which resulted in his death, an official said.The arrested accused are identified as Atiq Khan, Mohasin Shaikh, Afsar Vasta, Harish Solanki, and Mohammad Ansari, he said.A hunt is on to trace other accused involved in the crime.A case has been registered under various sections of the Indian Penal Code and the Maharashtra Police Act.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/man-lynched-on-suspicion-of-child-abduction-101622429814008.html
31-05-2021||India||Ahead of monsoon, widespread rain, thunderstorms likely over Kerala, Karnataka||A cyclonic circulation is lying over eastcentral Arabian Sea off the Karnataka coast which is likely to meander over the region during the next five days, bringing widespread rain to peninsular India, including Kerala, according to India Meteorological Department (IMD).Southwesterly winds are also likely to strengthen during the next 2-3 days. Under the influence of these and other favourable meteorological conditions; scattered to fairly widespread rainfall or thunderstorm is likely over Karnataka, Kerala and Mahe, and isolated to scattered rainfall or thunderstorm is over the remaining parts of south peninsular India during the next 4-5 days. Isolated heavy rainfall is likely over Kerala and Mahe during the next 5 days; coastal Karnataka from June 1 to 3 and south interior Karnataka on June 2 and 3.Also Read | Experts fear biodiversity loss in Andaman, Nicobar IslandsThe southwesterly winds could strengthen further gradually from June 1 resulting in likely enhancement in rainfall activity over Kerala. Hence the monsoon onset over Kerala is likely to take place around June 3, IMD said.Due to strengthening of lower level southwesterly winds, fairly widespread to widespread rainfall activity with isolated heavy falls very likely over northeastern states during the next 5 days.A western disturbance is affecting the Western Himalayan region and lower level moisture incursion from north Arabian Sea to the plains of northwest is likely to continue during the next 3-4 days. Under its influence, no significant change in maximum temperatures is likely during next 5 days. Isolated to scattered rainfall or thunderstorm activity is likely over the western Himalayan region and adjoining plains of northwest India during the next 4-5 days..||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/ahead-of-monsoon-widespread-rain-thunderstorms-likely-over-kerala-karnataka-101622429866993.html
31-05-2021||India||Covid: Shipment from Ukraine carrying 184 oxygen concentrators arrives in India||An aircraft carrying the first shipment of 184 oxygen concentrators arrived from Ukraine to India on Monday, as the country battles the second wave of coronavirus pandemic."Thank Ukraine for first shipment of 184 oxygen concentrators that arrived early this morning," tweeted Arindam Bagchi, spokesperson, Ministry of External Affairs.Several countries have come forward to help India as the country fights the second wave of Covid-19.India has received medical help and assistance from the US, UK, Canada, Germany, France, in the form of oxygen concentrators, ventilators, raw materials for vaccines, PPE kits.Meanwhile, India on Sunday reported the lowest single-day Covid-19 rise in 46 days with 1,65,553 cases reported in the last 24 hours while 3,460 people succumbed to the Covid-19 infection taking the total Covid-related death toll to 3,25,972.The cumulative number of the Covid-19 cases has increased to 2,78,94,800, with a daily positivity rate stands at 8.02 per cent, which is less than 10 per cent for the sixth consecutive day.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/covid-shipment-from-ukraine-carrying-184-oxygen-concentrators-arrives-in-india-101622429184028.html
31-05-2021||India||Odisha’s biggest jail’s chief warder suspended in Operation Clean Up||The Odisha government on Sunday suspended the chief warder of its biggest jail after mobile phones, SIM cards, mobile chargers, mobile batteries, a pen drive and cannabis were recovered from the prison.Odisha’s chief of prisons Santosh Upadhyay (DG) said Sudarshan Barik, chief warder of Jharpada Special Jail in Bhubaneswar was suspended after seizure of 6 mobile phones, 4 SIM cards, 5 mobile chargers, a pen drive, 5 mobile batteries and cannabis during Operation Clean Up on Saturday.Operation Clean Up is being undertaken by the directorate of prisons & correctional services reform to change the jail subculture, Upadhyay said.Earlier this month, a video of dancing and ganja smoking in Jharpada jail had gone viral in social media bringing embarrassment to the prisons department. The articles seized from Jharpada jail were found in the prison dining hall and wards, including the segregation ward. An FIR in this regard was lodged at the Laxmisagar police station and the seized articles were handed over to the police, said the police officer.He added that the cannabis was destroyed as per Odisha model jail manual. “This mission will be intensified till the jail authorities get satisfied with zero contraband articles in their respective jails,” Upadhyay said.In April this year, police in Koraput seized cash, a mobile phone, dumb-bells, iron rods and a pen drive from some under-trial prisoners following a raid at Jeypore sub-jail.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/odishas-biggest-jail-s-chief-warder-suspended-in-operation-clean-up-101622429327182.html
31-05-2021||India||Uttarakhand CM says sugar part of ration relief for 1st time, stokes row||Uttarakhand chief minister Tirath Singh Rawat has stoked another controversy with his remarks that people of the state have never received sugar since Independence as part of ration during a disaster.Speaking at a function in Uttarkashi on Saturday, Rawat said, “Sugar was never distributed since independence. Never in any sorrow, difficulty or disaster… we are distributing sugar (as part of ration) for three months... we have passed a proposal in this regard in cabinet meeting yesterday (Friday).”When contacted, the CM said what he meant was that the Covid-19 period is also a disaster, during which for the first time, his government is distributing sugar as part of the ration. “So far during disasters in the state, wheat, rice and pulses have been distributed, but sugar has never been distributed,” he saidUdit Ghildiyal, part of CM’s media team, said Rawat’s statement has been misinterpreted. “Till a few years ago, sugar was part of the ration. But then the price of sugar in ration and in the market became almost same...the CM decided that till August, sugar should be provided as part of the ration to 23 lakh (2.3 million) cardholders in the state,” Ghildiyal said.At the cabinet meeting on Friday, it was decided that 2.3 million ration cardholders in the state will be provided 2 kg sugar per head at a lesser price than the market price.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/uttarakhand-cm-says-sugar-part-of-ration-relief-for-1st-time-stokes-row-101622428149136.html
31-05-2021||India||Covid-19 tracker: Fall in new infections as Sunday saw rise of over 153,000 case||||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/covid19-tracker-fall-in-new-infections-as-sunday-saw-rise-of-over-153-000-case-101622418507210.html
31-05-2021||India||Jet sent to fly Choksi to India: Antigua PM||India has sent a private jet to Dominica with documents linked to the deportation of fugitive diamantaire Mehul Choksi, Prime Minister of Antigua and Barbuda Gaston Browne said on Sunday, even as officials in New Delhi indicated that the man wanted in the Punjab National Bank fraud case continued to be an Indian as his move to surrender his citizenship was not accepted by the government.Indian-born Choksi mysteriously disappeared from Antigua and Barbuda, whose citizenship he holds, on last Sunday, but was detained by Dominican police on Tuesday night on charges of illegally entering the island. The two islands are roughly 100 nautical miles apart.Also read| ‘Choksi still Indian citizen’: ED’s likely line of argument in courtChoksi may have left Antigua and taken a boat ride to neighbouring Dominica to have dinner or a “good time” with his girlfriend, the Antigua and Barbuda PM told a radio show in his country. There was, however, no immediate confirmation from Indian officials on Browne’s remarks.A Bombardier Global 5,000 jet of Qatar Executive mysteriously landed at Dominica’s Douglas Charles airport on Saturday. It’s publicly accessible flight path showed that it took off from New Delhi on May 28 and reached Dominica via Madrid.PM Browne, who has been vocal about not accepting Choksi back in his country after he was caught in Dominica, said: “My understanding is that [the] Indian government has sent certain documentation from courts in India to confirm that Choksi is indeed a fugitive.”These documents, Browne added, will be utilised in a court case in Dominica, where a judge is hearing the matter and has put a stay on his repatriation till Wednesday.Indian officials are in touch with their counterparts in Dominica to make an attempt to bring him back through the deportation route, because India has no extradition arrangements with the Caribbean country, people tracking developments said in Delhi.But those efforts suffered a temporary setback after the Eastern Caribbean Supreme Court agreed to hear a habeas corpus petition by Choksi’s lawyers, and ordered that he should not be removed from the country until further orders.“The Indian government seems to be going all out to make sure he is repatriated to India to stand trial,” Browne told the FM channel in Antigua. The interview was posted by Antigua Newsroom on its website.On the circumstances under which Choksi reached Dominica, Browne said: “The information that we are getting is that Mehul Choksi may have taken his girlfriend to Dominica probably to have dinner or have a good time and so on and got caught. That would have been a monumental error because in Antigua he is a citizen, we could not deport him.”While Indian officials did not speak about the private jet, they said this was their “window of opportunity” to bring Choksi to India because once he reached Antigua, he will have citizenship rights and the extradition case can linger on for years.An official, who spoke on condition of anonymity, told HT Choksi’s Indian citizenship was never cancelled, which could give an edge to India in Dominica to seek his deportation.Choksi’s disappearance from Antigua and detention in Dominica has caused a political storm in Antigua, where he is citizen.Antiguan PM Browne on Saturday accused the country’s key opposition party – the United Progressive Party (UPP) – of accepting funds from Choksi for its political campaigns.The UPP issued a statement on Saturday in favour of Choksi, saying that he should get his constitutional and legal rights as a citizen of Antigua.Browne hit back at the UPP, saying: “After mischievously accusing my administration of harbouring Mehul Choksi, who has an Interpol Red Notice, they are now seeking to sanitise this fugitive to get campaign funding... There has been no violation of Choksi’s legal and constitutional protections, despite the decision of my administration to revoke his citizenship.”Choksi’s lawyers Wayne Marsh and Vijay Aggarwal have alleged the businessman was abducted from Antigua and tortured on the way to Dominica and in custody.Reacting to Browne’s remarks on Sunday, Aggarwal said: “All these theories of Mehul Choksi fleeing from Antigua voluntarily are opposed to common sense. Firstly, he has a stay in his favour in Antigua. Secondly, I have been informed that his passport is in Antigua only, so nobody will try to escape without having his passport in his pocket. Brutal marks on body and this passport factor now establishes abduction claims.”To be sure, Choksi is currently out of police custody and has been placed at a quarantine facility in Roseau, where he is allowed to meet his lawyers.Dominica has indicated that he will be sent back to Antigua after ascertaining all the facts.The acting police chief , Lincoln Corbette, said on Thursday that Choksi will be sent to Antigua.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/jet-sent-to-fly-choksi-to-india-antigua-pm-101622417969339.html
31-05-2021||India||We’re on right track in 7 years of govt: Modi||Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Sunday highlighted his government’s achievements in the seven years in which it has been in power, saying that India was on the “right track” and that it did not work as per the “thoughts and pressures” of other nations, but according to its own “resolve”.In his monthly radio broadcast Mann Ki Baat, which coincided with the seventh anniversary of the Modi government at the Centre, the Prime Minister said India has made strides in several areas -- from water and electricity connections in rural households to digital transactions.Also read: Experts fear biodiversity loss in Andaman, Nicobar Islands“All this was possible because in these 7 years, more than as the Government or as the people, we worked together as one country. We worked as a team. We worked as Team India,” he said, adding that his government has worked on the principle of “sabka saath, sabka vikas, sabka vishwas”.The Bharatiya Janata Party-led National Democratic Alliance (NDA) government was re-elected to power at the Centre in May 2019 with a clear majority of 303 seats, improving its 2014 performance of 282 in the Lok Sabha. The BJP decided to tone down celebrations on the completion of the NDA government’s seven years on Sunday, but asked party leaders to reach out to people in their local areas amid the Covid-19 pandemic.PM Modi invoked national security -- which the BJP-led government says is one of the key areas it has taken a tough stand in -- and said that India has followed its “own conviction”. The country did not give in to”thoughts and pressures” of others, and its armed forces gave a “befitting” reply to those who “conspire” against it, he said.“Together, we have experienced many moments of national pride in these years. When we observe that now India moves ahead not with the thought and pressure of other countries but with her own conviction, then we all feel proud. When we witness that now India gives a befitting reply to those who conspire against us, then our confidence soars. When India does not compromise on the issues of national security, when the strength of our armed forces increases, we feel that yes, we are on the right path,” he said.Also read | Covid-19: What you need to know todayHe said the government has been successful in resolving age-old conflicts. “In these 7 years, many old contestations of the country have also been resolved with complete peace and harmony. A new confidence of peace and development has arisen, from the Northeast to Kashmir.”Modi conceded that along with successes, there were also “trials” and that the country has “overcome many difficult tests”.Speaking of contributions made by people in the trying times of a pandemic raging in the country, the PM said the first wave of Covid-19 infections was a “war” that was fought with “total courage”.“This time too (2nd wave) India will be victorious in the fight against Covid-19… In these 7 years, together we have seen many tough times together but each time we all came out stronger,” he said, adding that the pandemic was a challenge that has gripped the entire world, including big countries.In recent weeks, opposition parties across the country have lashed out at the central government for its handling of the Covid-19 pandemic, which saw a resurgence of cases March onwards, propelled by a complete re-opening of activities, lack of adherence to social distancing norms and more transmissible virus variants. Political parties and state governments have also criticised the government for what they allege is a mismanaged nationwide inoculation drive, with several regions now reporting a shortage of vaccine doses.“You need the right intention, policy and determination to fight Corona (Covid-19) and not just a pointless talk once in a month,” senior Congress leader Rahul Gandhi said in a tweet in Hindi on Sunday.Also read| Hotels cannot offer Covid-19 vaccine packages: Centre on viral postIn the 77th edition of his radio address, the Prime Minister lauded the agriculture sector for record produce despite the outbreak. “The agricultural sector protected itself from this attack to a great extent. Not only did it keep itself safe, but the sector also progressed, moving forward,” he said, referring to the resilience of the farm economy.India’s agriculture sector, which employs nearly half the country’s working population, appears to have been unscathed during the second wave, just as it was during the first outbreak in 2020. The country is projected to produce a record 304 million tonne of foodgrains in 2020-21, 2.66% more than the previous year, according to one of the annual projections by the government released last week.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/were-on-right-track-in-7-yrs-of-govt-modi-101622415947702.html
31-05-2021||India||Experts fear biodiversity loss in Andaman, Nicobar Islands||A slew of infrastructure projects have been proposed in the Andaman and Nicobar Islands to give a major boost to tourism and business there, according to information released by the central government. While these will transform the islands substantially, experts are worried that this would cause loss of biodiversity and have a negative impact on the indigenous people in the ecologically sensitive islands.Information uploaded on the Union environment ministry’s Parivesh website suggests that multiple infrastructure projects are being considered by an expert appraisal committee (EAC) and a coastal regulation zone (CRZ) committee. Some of these projects include luxury tents and resorts on some islands; two water aerodrome projects in Shaheed and Swaraj islands (formerly Neil and Havelock islands, respectively); two major township and area development projects on the Great Nicobar Island and Little Andaman, one of which is also likely to involve denotification of a tribal reserve.All of this will involve massive land use change in the islands. On May 28, the CRZ committee considered an application by Andaman and Nicobar Islands Integrated Development Corporation (ANIIDCO) to waive off a condition under the CRZ clearance granted to them for developing luxury tents in Aves Island on a public-private partnership mode. One of the CRZ conditions was that all large, medium, and small trees will be counted and geo-referenced and not felled. But now ANIIDCO is seeking an amendment to this clause so that trees may be felled if required.“As a chairman of the committee, I cannot comment on what was discussed or what amendments are being made to the conditions,” said Deepak Apte, chairman of EAC on CRZ.Documents show that the Andaman and Nicobar Coastal Zone Management Authority (ANCZMA) has recommended that the condition be waived off. “ANCZMA is retracting its mandatory precaution by claiming that environment impact assessments do not include ‘tree canopy issues’. Review of proposals under CRZ notification requires scientific rigour and legal basis. They cannot be turned into regulatory convenience resulting in the abdication of responsibility, as has happened in the present case,” said Kanchi Kohli, legal researcher, Centre for Policy Research, a think tank.On Friday, the EAC on infrastructure projects also considered the development of a water aerodrome at Shaheed Island by the Airports Authority of India. Documents available on Parivesh say that a mangrove patch is present 0.9 km to the west of the project site. Only last month, the EAC had raised several concerns about the ecological impact of constructing a water aerodrome at Swaraj Island that would have resulted in the loss of 3,500 square metres of forest land transferred to ANIIDCO. The environment impact assessment report says that the site for the construction of the terminal building (1,568.9 sqm) and associated infrastructure (453.3 sqm) falls partly in mangroves.Two township projects on the Little Andaman Island and the Great Nicobar region conceptualised by Niti Aayog will also be constructed by ANIIDCO.Niti Aayog’s vision document on sustainable development of Little Andaman, seen by HT, says that a certain portion of the 442.5 square kilometre area reserved for the Onge tribe will be de-notified for the Little Andaman township, and another area earmarked for the tribe. “The de-notification of the tribal reserve is being considered by the tribal welfare department,” said a senior ANIIDCO official, refusing to be identified.Andaman and Nicobar Islands chief secretary Jitendra Narain did not respond to HT’s queries.HT reported on May 12 that EAC recommended the Great Nicobar township proposal for grant of terms of reference. Documents revealed that the project was likely to impact turtle and megapode nesting sites and coral reefs. EAC also said that the environmental aspects of the site having many endangered species weren’t given much weightage while selecting it.Kartik Shanker, professor at the Indian Institute of Science’s Centre for Ecological Sciences and a specialist in community ecology and macroecology, and turtle biology, said the islands host tremendous marine biodiversity. “Development is definitely needed in the islands, but it needs to be ecologically sensitive and culturally conscious. These are some of the most important repositories of our biodiversity and ecological heritage and any development must minimise ecological impacts and benefit local communities,” said Shanker.“Nowhere else in India would one find thriving tropical rainforests, mangroves, coral reefs, and other terrestrial and marine ecosystems within a hundred metres of each other. The main livelihood generators of these islands are tourism and fisheries and sustaining them requires maintaining healthy ecosystems,” said Naveen Namboothri, director, Dakshin Foundation, a green NGO.Great Nicobar is home to several endemic species such as the Nicobar megapode and the Nicobar tree shrew.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/experts-fear-biodiversity-loss-in-andaman-nicobar-islands-101622415141217.html
31-05-2021||India||Covid-19: What you need to know today||On Saturday, India reported 165,307 cases of the coronavirus disease, the lowest since early April. The rate of fall of reported cases has been almost as sharp as the rate at which they rose through April, before peaking in early May. The numbers put this in context. India reported 81,413 cases of Covid-19 on April 1. By April 11, this climbed to 170,100; by April 15, 216,913. On May 5, the country reported 412,783 cases. The fall has come despite at least one potentially more infectious variant being responsible for some of the surge in cases.The sharpness of the peak of India’s second wave has come as a lifeline for the country’s overwhelmed health care system, but, in general, such abrupt waves suggest extraneous factors at play — with the threat of a flare-up in infections once these factors are removed. The positive way of looking at this, of course, would be that these factors have worked. In the case of India’s second wave, there has been mainly one factor — and it has worked spectacularly.Also read| Wave on wane: Covid deaths at 48-day lowThe factor is the lockdown, or rather, the lockdowns imposed by most states and Union territories across the country. With governments as well as citizens wary about the term — the 68-day-long national lockdown between March 25 and May 31 last year roiled lives and livelihoods, and took a huge toll on the economy — many states have been hesitant about using the term, but a lockdown by any other name works just as well in breaching the chain of infections. The main reason for the sharp fall in daily new cases is this.It’s still not clear why cases continued to rise gradually through last year’s hard lockdown. Till March 25 last year, the first day of the lockdown, India had recorded only 657 cases of the coronavirus disease. On June 1, the first day after the nationwide lockdown was relaxed, this number was 198,220. Still, that was at a time — it seems so long ago — when most people in the country had not been exposed to the virus (sero-prevalence or antibody surveys now put the number as high as 50% in some parts of the country), when the disease was still largely an urban phenomenon, and when there was no vaccine (even on the horizon).Today, India has three vaccines.Till April 1, 49.2 million Indians had received just one dose of the vaccines and 9.5 million had been fully vaccinated. On April 11, these numbers were 78.5 million and 13 million; on April 15, 87.4 million and 14.8 million, and on May 5, 99.4 million and 31.5 million. On Saturday (May 29), these numbers were 123 million and 44.4 million. The size of the population currently eligible for vaccines is 940 million, which means around 18% of the eligible population has some form of protection against the virus. I’ve written previously that 40% plus non pharmaceutical interventions (masks, social distancing, a complete ban on large events, irrespective of whether they are social, cultural, or religious) will actually work almost as well as vaccine-proffered herd immunity (which is actually the only desirable kind of herd immunity), although the results will be very clear even at 25%.Also read: China feels Covid heat as study backs lab theorySlow as India’s vaccine drive has been, it is possible that at least some of the fall in cases is the result of vaccinations. If that’s the case, it’s all the more reason for the country to accelerate its vaccine drive, with an eye on that 40% number — around 375 million people who have received at least one dose of the vaccine. At that level, with non pharmaceutical interventions in place (it’s the reason Hindustan Times has repeatedly called for Class 12 board exams to be scrapped), and with the vaccinations gathering even more momentum as supplies increase (they are expected to, starting July or August), the country could very well aim at a return to normalcy.Still, that’s several months away. With the second wave ebbing, many states and Union territories have started to partially relax lockdowns and ease restrictions on movement and activities this week. They would do well to remember how we got here.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/covid19-what-you-need-to-know-today-101622412886676.html
31-05-2021||India||Need to revisit growth path amid climate crisis||Cyclones Yaas and Tauktae have caused enormous damage on Indian coasts.They won’t be the last cyclones to maraud us as climate change intensifies. We have been dealt an unfair hand, but we must face it.Our model till date has prevented loss of life and help impacted persons to rebuild. India cannot afford this anymore, because we will be hit by more frequent, more severe cyclones in the coming years. Know this: 170 million, a seventh of our population, lives along coasts. If they lose their assets, savings and livelihoods repeatedly, they will plunge into intense poverty, if they are not already there.Nature-based solutions can help mitigate this dire scenario. But that needs a fundamental shift in how we view nature. The popular understanding of it is as either a hindrance or a basket of goodies to extract, sets it up as a system to be vanquished and devoured. In reality, nature is inherently a basket of goodies via its eco-system services and its very presence.There’s much investment required into researching specific solutions for each of India’s 70 coastal districts. Each cradles a range of biodiversity, culture and is differently vulnerable.Yet, each should plan along accepted ideas include preserving, improving or re-wilding mangroves, swamps, lagoons and sandy dunes and beaches. This can’t co-exist with infrastructure development that needs them out of the way.Nature needs precedence. India may not have contributed to the climate crisis but we must drastically re-think our growth path to adapt to it.(The writer is founder and director of Chintan Environmental Research and Action Group)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/need-to-revisit-growth-path-amid-climate-crisis-101622409967666.html
31-05-2021||India||Wave on wane: Covid deaths at 48-day low||Daily Covid-19 fatalities in the national capital fell to their lowest in 48 days on Sunday, as the waning infection count continued to reflect in the city’s decreasing death toll. The city also added fewer than 1,000 new infections for the second consecutive day, while the test positivity rate remained below 2%.The health bulletin issued by the state government on Sunday shows that 78 people died of the viral infection in the previous 24 hours — the fewest since April 12, when the city saw 72 people succumb to the infection, at a time when cases and deaths were surging as the Capital bore the brunt of a brutal fourth wave of infections. It was also the first time in 46 days that the Covid toll dropped below 100.So far, 24,151 people in Delhi have died of Covid-19, state government records said. Over 13,100 of these deaths have been recorded in April and May alone, data showed.Delhi also added 946 new infections on Sunday, a marginal dip from 956 cases the previous day. The seven-day average of infections, known as case trajectory, dropped to its lowest in 64 days, with the city adding less than 1,250 infections each day over the past week. As on Sunday, Delhi’s case trajectory has dropped for 30 consecutive days.While daily cases began to drop around the second week of May, deaths have not reduced at the same rate, since any drop in case trajectory generally take 14 days to reflect on daily deaths. Studies have shown that the median time between someone testing positive for Covid-19 and dying from it is around 13.8 days.Meanwhile, the test positivity rate, a crucial metric to understand the spread of an infection in a region, remained below 2% for the fifth day in a row. The Capital on Sunday recorded a test positivity rate of 1.25% on the back of over 75,000 tests.As a rule of thumb, tracking a region’s positivity rate serves as a good barometer for whether cases are going to increase or decrease in the coming days: a rising positivity rate generally means cases will rise in the immediate future, while a dropping one tends to precede a drop in new infections.Click here for complete coverage of Covid-19The World Health Organization (WHO) recommends that the positivity rate from a region that has a comprehensive testing programme should be at or below 5% for at least two weeks before it can be considered that the outbreak is under control. In Delhi, this number has been below the threshold for eight days now.While experts acknowledged as positive the drop in cases and deaths, they reiterated the importance of vaccinations to prevent surges in future.Dr Jugal Kishore, head of the community medicines department in Delhi’s Safdarjung Hospital, said: “We can safely say that the fourth wave of Covid-19 is over in Delhi. Deaths are also likely to come down because Delhi has recorded a steep decline in cases for over two weeks now. But we have to scale up vaccination at this stage. Supply shortages cannot be an excuse. Governments will together have to work towards resolving that. As cases come down and the positivity rate declines significantly, the number of tests is likely to witness some decline. It follows a natural course. But the government should have its testing infrastructure in place – and make best use of its wide network of dispensaries and mohalla clinics."||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/wave-on-wane-covid-deaths-at-48-day-low-101622405953208.html
31-05-2021||India||Hotels cannot offer Covid-19 vaccine packages: Centre on viral post||As a social media post of a famous hotel chain offering a vaccination package in Hyderabad’s Hitec city went viral with several political leaders pointing out the disparity in the vaccine situation of the country, the Union health ministry said administrative action will be taken against such hotels and private hospitals agreeing to sell the vaccines.In a letter addressed to all states and Union territories, the health ministry reiterated that four avenues for vaccination are permitted — government Covid vaccination centres, private centres run by private hospitals, workplace vaccination centres run by either government or private hospitals, and special centres at housing societies, community centres, panchayat bhawans, schools/colleges and old age homes.All such programmes being carried out in hotels need to be stopped immediately, it said.The advertisement which went viral announced a vaccine package starting at ₹2,999 including a comfortable stay, vaccination by experts from a renowned hospital, a healthy breakfast and dinner, on-request clinical consultation and Wi-Fi.AAP leader Raghav Chadha shared one such post and said the Centre has facilitated such a vaccination package by ensuring a steady supply to private hospitals, while state-run centres which offer free vaccination have no stock.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/hotels-cannot-offer-covid-19-vaccine-packages-centre-on-viral-post-101622402289914.html
31-05-2021||India||Spoke for Goa’s rights, don’t need to apologise: TN finance minister||Chennai: Tamil Nadu’s finance minister Palanivel Thiagarajan on Sunday denied Goa’s transport minister Mouvin Godhino charges that he had insulted Goans at the 43rd  GST Council meeting held on Friday. He also refused to tender an apology as demanded by Godhino stating that he advocated for Goa’s state rights at the meeting. Godhino, who represented the Goa government in the GST council chaired by Union finance minister Nirmala Sitharaman, during a press conference on Saturday said that Thiagarajan had commented that Goa is a small state with a small population and bigger states should be given more attention. Godhino demanded his apology and asked for Tamil Nadu chief minister M K Stalin to condemn his behaviour. On Saturday, Thiagarajan spoke to reporters outside the secretariat and said that states with a high population like Uttar Pradesh and Maharashtra didn’t get adequate time to represent their concerns. Without naming Goa, he said that the voice of a ‘tiny state’ whose population is just half of Madurai district was heard ‘10 times’ than what was needed. “That state got more opportunity than many other big states.” he said. Stating that one vote for one state model of the GST council is unfair, he said that voting value should be based on the state’s population or its manufacturing capability, consumption, per capita income. Thiagarajan, in a statement questioned if Godhino is ‘limited in comprehension, in honesty, or both’. He said that Godhino was against lowering GST on Covid-19 related drugs and vaccines from 5% to 0% on humanitarian grounds. “He spoke for many times the length of the inputs from the honorable minister from Uttar Pradesh, a state of over 2 million citizens and indeed every other state,” Thiagarajan said leaving it to the public to decide whether that serves India, and its democracy. Thiagarajan said his speech in the meeting was guided by the Dravidian tenet of local-self governance. He cited the example of including Extra Neutral Alcohol (ENA) into GST and away from state taxation would have yielded revenue to Tamil Nadu, which is a net importer, at the cost of states such as Uttar Pradesh, which are net exporters. “Even when the principle resulted in the loss of potential future revenue to Tamil Nadu, we backed states that voted for this exception, including Uttar Pradesh, Arunachal Pradesh and ironically, Goa,” he said. He added that they also backed Sikkim to levy a special cess within its borders to raise funds for Covid-19 control measures. “...and by extension the right of any state, big or small to do so,” he said. Following the GST council meeting, Tamil Nadu hasn’t figured in the group of ministers constituted on May 29 to examine the issue of GST concessions/exempt to Covid relief material. Lok Sabha MP D Ravikumar, of Viduthalai Chiruthaigal Katchi (VCK) and ally of the Dravida Munnetra Kazhagam (DMK) called this discrimination and asked for Tamil Nadu’s finance minister to also be included in the panel.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/spoke-for-goa-s-rights-don-t-need-to-apologise-tn-finance-minister-101622401362398.html
31-05-2021||India||39 dead due to black fungus: Govt||Bengaluru At least 39 persons are suspected to have died due to Mucormycosis, commonly known as black fungus, in Karnataka, according to data released by the state government on Sunday. Dharwad, about 450 kms from Bengaluru, has so far registered at least eight suspected deaths while Shivamogga recorded five and Kalaburagi four. Bengaluru has reported at least 3 deaths due to black fungus, data shows. “Even though it has been stated that there have been 30-35 deaths due to black fungus, we have instructed that a proper death audit will be done,” Dr K Sudhakar, Karnataka’s minister for health, family welfare and medical education said in a statement on Sunday. The sharp spike in cases of black fungus adds to the challenges of the Covid-19 pandemic in Karnataka and other places across the country where the disease has been detected. Karnataka has so far recorded 1250 cases of black fungus, according to the state government. Of this 1,193 patients are currently undergoing treatment and 18 of them have been cured, data shows. Sudhakar said that around 8,000 to 10,000 vials of Amphotericin B, a drug used to treat those infected by black fungus have been allocated to Karnataka. The state has also set up a task force specifically to look into the growing number of black fungus cases. According to the data, there are 521 cases of black fungus recorded in Bengaluru, 119 in Dharwad, 102 in Kalaburagi, 68 in Bagalkote and 57 in Vijayapura. The cause of white and black fungus, both distinguished by their pigmentation, has been attributed, among other reasons, to the possibility of contamination either due to low-quality cylinders or low-quality piping systems at intensive care units of the hospital. Authorities are even trying to see if there has been contamination at the industry level from where the oxygen is being supplied due to improper sterilization or any other reasons. It may be also due to the usage of ordinary tap water in ventilators, according to officials. Meanwhile, Karnataka saw its positivity rate dip to 14.68% as 20,378 new Covid infections were reported on Sunday, according to the daily health bulletin of the state government. At least 28,053 persons have recovered in the state, which has brought down the total number of active cases to 342,010, the bulletin stated. Bengaluru accounted for 4,734 new infections and 6,078 recoveries in India’s IT capital, which brings down its active caseload to 162,625. The state recorded 382 fatalities in a single day of which Bengaluru accounts for 213, it added. Fatality rate stood at 1.87%. The state has seen the second wave prolong its stay as it records a slower vaccination drive. “Karnataka is No.1 state in south India in vaccination drive. The drive will move faster as vaccine delivery is picking pace, thanks to GOI support. State received the following on May 29 under the GOI quota: 80,000 doses of COVAXIN. 2,17,310 doses of COVISHIELD,” Sudharkar said in a post on Twitter. Karnataka has so far administered 13,396,169 doses of vaccines in the state of which the second dose accounts for 2,726,385, according to data. 51,679 doses administered till 3.30 pm on Sunday of which 5,417 were second doses.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/39-dead-due-to-black-fungus-govt-101622401123459.html
31-05-2021||India||Political slugfest in K’taka over graft allegations||Bengaluru: An allegation that began with the “bribe-for-bed” scam has spiralled into an all-out political slugfest in Karnataka, with serious charges levelled by the ruling Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) and the opposition Congress party in the state against each other.The political battle in Karnataka over the management, or lack of it, during the raging Covid-19 pandemic among other issues, has now become a focal point of all discourse in the southern state that continues to remain firmly in the grip of the pandemic.The latest in the series of allegations and its counters is that a BJP MLA has been taking a commission from a private hospital for vaccinations.Ravi Subramanya, the BJP’s three-time legislator from Basavanagudi in Bengaluru south, said that a hospital that gets the vaccine from the company or another source by paying the price of it includes handling charges and other costs. He asks how a private hospital that charges ₹850 to ₹900 per dose gives a commission of ₹700.“It is a political game. Such things normally happen during elections. But this has begun much earlier,” Subramanya told Hindustan Times.“For a few days, they targeted Tejaswi Surya then they went for Satish Reddy (BJP MLA from Bommanahalli), and then they came for me. I don’t know who is next,” he added.Surya, Reddy, Subramanya, and one more BJP legislator had barged into the Bengaluru south war room and levelled allegations against a few persons for blocking beds illegally and then selling them for astronomical prices.However, the incident took a communal twist as all 17 persons named out a list of 205 persons working in the war room, were muslims, and Subramanya was heard questioning officials “if it was a Madarasa”.Surya continues to be part of several paid-vaccination drives with private hospitals while a person, alleged to be a close aide of the legislator, has been arrested over the bribe-for-bed scam.The allegations have further dented the image of the Yediyurappa-led state government which is already struggling not only to control the raging pandemic but also finds itself amid a possible power struggle between the party and the chief minister over the possible ouster of the latter.“There was no effort to look into the allegations and set the processes right. Instead, it became an effort to target those who made the allegations,” said a BJP legislator, requesting anonymity, hinting that the three legislators were being targeted by the Yediyurappa-led government itself.The inadequate financial package of ₹1250 crore, an almost non-existent cabinet, and infighting within the government has also weighed on the performance of BJP-ruled Karnataka.For Congress, the allegations have replenished their growing arsenal to take on the ruling BJP which appears to be on the defensive over the developments.The Congress in Karnataka listed the scams which include bed hire, PM cares, purchase of medical equipment, food kit, and vaccine blocking among others.“Death figures in Karnataka continue to cry loud of BJP’s inefficiency in taking care of our people with 492 lives lost to Covid yesterday. #BJPVaccineScam is the reason the Govt refuses to budge to #LetCongressVaccinate. They want to make a profit out of people’s misery,” DK Shivakumar, the president of the Congress party in Karnataka said in a post on Twitter.He added that the vaccination drive in Karnataka was “95% failure” and only 5% of the eligible persons were fully vaccinated, saying that the people of the state deserve better.“Vaccines are available in private hospitals & hotels if you pay @BJP4Karnataka MLAs or MPs, but not in Govt hospitals which cater to the poor & lower income groups. #ModiMadeDisaster,” Priyank Kharge, former minister and Congress legislator from Kalaburagi district said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/political-slugfest-in-k-taka-over-graft-allegations-101622401064843.html
31-05-2021||India||Odisha extends lockdown till June 17 as 12 districts record high TPR||With 12 of 30 districts recording a TPR more than the state average over last week, the Odisha government on Sunday extended the statewide lockdown till June 17 to bring the Covid-19 surge in rural areas under control.Making the announcement, chief secretary Suresh Mohapatra said during the lockdown, all the usual restrictions will continue to be strictly imposed. Weekend shutdown beginning from Friday evening till Monday morning will also be enforced. Amid the second wave of Covid-19, the Odisha government imposed a statewide lockdown from May 5 to May 19 and then extended it till June 1“Odisha had to face a twin crisis of Cyclone Yaas and Covid-19 during last week. Cyclone Yaas battered parts of North Odisha and north coastal Odisha. Though the positivity rate has dropped in the state, we are still at risk of the spread of Covid-19 infection. Therefore the state government has decided to extend lockdown for 16 more days,” said Mahapatra, urging people not to venture into local markets for shopping ahead of the Raja and Savitri festival in June.Additional chief secretary of health, PK Mohapatra said though Odisha recorded its Covid-19 peak of second wave on May 22 with 12,858 positive cases, there are still fears of transmission of the virus from neighbouring Andhra Pradesh and West Bengal where Covid-19 cases are still high.Dhenkanal with a weekly average of 37.2 per cent TPR still continued to be a cause for worry for the state government as much as Bhadrak with 36.55 per cent and Cuttack at 33 per cent. Other districts who reported higher TPR than state weekly average of 15.86 are Balasore (30.33), Khurdah (29.12), Jajpur (23.80), Puri (22.32), Boudh (21.53), Angul (19.91), Mayurbhanj (18.81), Jagatsinghpur (18.62) and Kendrapara (17.76). The health secretary said 9 districts of Khurdah, Cuttack, Angul, Sundargarh, Puri, Mayurbhanj, Jajpur, Balasore and Bargarh accounted for 60% of the total number of Covid-19 cases.In Dhenkanal, half a dozen villages have been declared containment zones after a huge number of positive cases were detected. Officials said most of the infected people attended community feasts over the last fortnight.The state government, however, relaxed the weekday lockdown hours in Nuapada, Gajapati and Sundargarh districts where the Covid-19 cases have drastically reduced and TPR too came down considerably over the last week. In these districts people can buy essential commodities between 6 am to 1 pm instead of 6 am to 10 am window available to people of other districts. The government said there has been a decline in Covid-19 positive cases in western Odisha districts bordering Chhattisgarh and Jharkhand.The health secretary said the Covid-19 situation in Odisha was improving as occupancy of general beds has dropped from 52% to 46% and that of the critical care beds from 82% to 72%.“Today, 86% of active cases in Odisha are in Home Isolation. We are adding another 368 ICU beds, and 70 HDU beds very soon. Odisha is self-sufficient in terms of drugs for Covid-19 treatment and medical oxygen supply. Our requirement is 67 metric tonnes of oxygen per day for hospitals are being met. Besides, medical oxygen from Odisha is being supplied to 18 states and so far 25,000 tonnes of LMO have been transported out of Odisha,” he said.So far 30% people in 45+ age groups in Odisha have been vaccinated. But vaccination drive for the 18-44 age group has not gathered much pace due to lack of enough vaccines. So far vaccination drive for the 18-44 age group is being carried out in 5 municipal corporations and 6 district headquarters.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/odisha-extends-lockdown-till-june-17-as-12-districts-record-high-tpr-101622400582932.html
31-05-2021||India||Tamil Nadu CM Stalin wears PPE kit to Coimbatore’s Covid-19 ward to boost morale of staff||Tamil Nadu chief minister MK Stalin on Sunday wore a PPE suit over his traditional white shirt and veshti to visit patients inside a Covid-19 ward at ESI Medical College and Hospital in Coimbatore district. He interacted with the patients as well as doctors and nurses treating them.“This will give confidence and a boost to medical workers and their families,” Stalin told reporters in Coimbatore. “We know how difficult it is to wear a PPE kit and it is praiseworthy that these doctors and nurses wear this for such long hours to do their work.”Later, he tweeted these photos and said that he went into the treatment wards against advice. “...to reassure frontline workers, the victims and their families and doctors who risk their lives,” he tweeted in Tamil. “Besides medicine, the comfort and consolation that others provide will cure the disease.”A few days ago, Coimbatore surpassed Chennai with the highest number of new cases of Covid-19 in the state. Coimbatore’s adjoining districts such as Tirupur, Erode and Salem are also reporting a high number of cases. This is the second time that Stalin is inspecting virus control measures in this region since he took over as chief minister earlier this month. He was accompanied by health minister M Subramanian and other officials. He later held a review meeting with officials on the measures undertaken and facilities available. On May 30, Coimbatore reported 3,537 new Covid-19 cases and 47 new deaths taking the total number of overall cases in Tamil Nadu to 20,68,580 and 23,754 deaths.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/tamil-nadu-cm-stalin-wears-ppe-kit-to-coimbatore-s-covid-19-ward-to-boost-morale-of-staff-101622399443257.html
31-05-2021||India||Petrol prices cross ₹100 mark in Rajasthan||Petrol prices in all 33 districts of Rajasthan crossed the ₹100 mark on Sunday, with Ganganagar registering the highest at ₹104.95 per litre, the state government informed.Chief minister Ashok Gehlot criticised the Centre for the constant hike in fuel prices and inflation and said the common man is now trapped in a “web of inflation woven by the Modi government”.“The common man is already disturbed due to Covid and declining income, and the Modi government is creating more trouble with inflation,” he said.The chief minister said the Centre has been constantly reducing excise duty on petrol and diesel where every state had a share and imposing special excise duty and additional excise duty to fill its coffers. He added that one-third of the income of the central government is due to taxes on petrol and diesel.“When the central government was supposed to give relief by reducing tax on petrol and diesel, it imposed a new tax in this year’s budget. This has increased transportation charges, due to which inflation is increasing,” Gehlot said.In the last 26 days, fuel prices have been hiked 15 times. On Saturday, price was hiked by 0.27 paise on petrol and 0.30 paise on diesel.Rajasthan Petroleum Dealers’ Association president Suneet Bagai said petrol prices have crossed ₹100 for the first time in the history of the state.He added that when the international crude oil prices go up by 10 paise, the cost in India goes up by over three times.The consumer pays around 262% taxes on the basic price, which is the highest in the world, Bagai said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/petrol-prices-cross-100-mark-in-rajasthan-101622399384670.html
31-05-2021||India||‘Choksi still Indian citizen’: ED’s likely line of argument in court||India’s Enforcement Directorate will argue in the High Court of Dominica that Choksi remains an Indian citizen, although he has a passport issued by Antigua and Barbuda, is in Dominica illegally, is accused of fraud and money laundering in India, with enough evidence of the same, has an Interpol Red Corner Notice against his name, and that he should therefore be deported to India.HT learns that ED will present to the court detailed evidence of Choksi’s wrongdoings, where his companies Gitanjali Gems, Giri, and Nakshatra defrauded the Punjab National Bank. India’s Central Bureau of Investigation and ED are investigating the case, which goes back at least a decade, and involves the issue of so-called letters of undertaking to Choksi’s companies, which he used, along with a clutch of shell entities registered in countries such as Hong Kong, which has emerged as one of the epicenters of his web, to divert money overseas. Investigations have traced at least $500 million of such diversions from HK, HT learns.Also read: Indian jet in Dominica for Choksi, he went out of Antigua with girlfriend: Gaston BrowneChoksi’s nephew Nirav Modi was his partner in this operation. While Choksi fled India for Antigua and Barbuda, Modi fled to London, where legal extradition proceedings against him are continuing, with India winning many of the initial battles.But the key part of ED’s argument, HT learns, will be that while Choksi surrendered his Indian passport in September 2018 in Georgetown Guyana, this was not accepted and the surrender documents were not signed by the prescribed authority. ED will argue, citing Rule 23 of India’s Citizenship Act, that the prescribed authority in this case is the ministry of home affairs.“It is ludicrous, as even a first-year law student knows that as per Section 9 of the Citizenship Act, a person ceases to be an Indian citizen the moment he acquires citizenship of any other country. We are talking of citizenship, not some ration card which can be asked to be returned,” said Vijay Aggarwal, Choksi’s lawyer.Antigua and Barbuda is unlikely to make a case for deporting Choksi back to the country — the country’s government is fighting two cases against the fugitive in the courts, including one over the revocation of his citizenship.A central government official confirmed that Choksi’s Indian citizenship was not cancelled. The move of Choksi surrendering his Indian citizenship was never accepted, the official said on condition of anonymity.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/choksi-still-indian-citizen-ed-s-likely-line-of-argument-in-court-101622399322138.html
31-05-2021||India||Audio clips hint at Sasikala’s plans to return to AIADMK after Covid-19||At a time when the All India Anna Dravida Munnetra Kazhagam (AIADMK) is yet to come to terms with its defeat in the recently concluded assembly elections, which saw them losing power in Tamil Nadu after 10 years, the party is facing another challenge, this time from the expelled interim party general secretary VK Sasikala, whose two leaked audio clips hinted at her intentions to regain her footing in the party.In the leaked audio clips, Sasikala can be heard talking to party cadre over the phone, saying she would be back soon and set everything right. The development comes at a time when the rift between AIADMK’s dual leadership of Edappadi Palaniswami and O Panneerselvam is becoming public.In one call, Sasikala is purportedly heard saying, “Don’t worry. We will definitely set everything right. You all be brave. I will come after corona is over.” One of her supporters, Lawrence, tells her that a whole group was waiting for her return, and they would back her. In a second call with a supporter named Vinod Suresh, Sasikala says she is disheartened to see the fights in the AIADMK. “We will make a decision shortly and come soon. Don’t worry. It hurts to see them fight. We made this party grow with a lot of difficulties so I cannot just watch it go to waste. Very soon I will come. Once corona is over, I will meet everyone.” Suresh, from Thanjavur district, then responds, saying he had attended her rally and that they are all shattered after losing the elections. Suresh added that they were waiting for her decision.An associate in Sasikala’s team, who did not wish to be identified, confirmed it was Sasikala’s conversations and that she didn’t know the call was being recorded.“We have been receiving a lot of letters from the AIADMK and Amma Makkal Munnetra Kazhagam (AMMK) cadre. Some of them have written with their blood,” he said, adding, “Instead of writing back, she called them. She just spoke from her heart. Once Covid-19 is over, she is planning to meet them.”Sasikala’s moves are being closely watched as she was the most powerful behind-the-scenes operator in the AIADMK for close to three decades when Jayalalithaa was at the helm of the party.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/audio-clips-hint-at-sasikala-s-plans-to-return-to-aiadmk-after-covid19-101622399262161.html
31-05-2021||India||Sorabjee inspired me to continue in legal profession: CJI Ramana||Chief Justice of India (CJI) NV Ramana on Sunday said that late eminent jurist Soli Sorabjee was among those who inspired him to continue in the legal profession, adding that in his demise, the country had lost one of the greatest legal minds and a champion of human rights. Sorabjee, a recipient of the Padma Vibhushan who twice served as Attorney General, passed away due to Covid-19 on April 30.Speaking at a virtual event organised in memory of Sorabjee, CJI Ramana recalled meeting him in 1988 to discuss a case involving the then chief minister of Andhra Pradesh. Sorabjee was thorough with facts and after a five-minute briefing, the two questions he asked were the ones posed by the bench the next day.“I thought I had seen a prophet in action… I must admit that he was one of those who inspired me to continue in this profession,” the CJI said.Supreme Court judge Justice UU Lalit described Sorabjee as a “great package” who had a love for life, particularly his passion for jazz, poetry and literature. “He was the best guardian of the fortress of free speech and expression who excelled in all branches of law,” Justice Lalit added.The fact that a viral infection led to Sorabjee’s end was ironical, said Justice DY Chandrachud, who also spoke at the memorial hosted by Sorabjee family – wife Zena, daughter Zia and sons Jehangir and Hormazd.Justice Chandrachud said, “If you are in his chamber and you had a (common) cold, you ran the risk of being thrown out and it is so ironical that it was a virus that got him in the end.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/sorabjee-inspired-me-to-continue-in-legal-profession-cji-ramana-101622399202659.html
31-05-2021||India||Amid oil price rise, Centre to distribute free oilseeds||India’s policymakers, alarmed by the growing prices of edible oils due to high import costs of oilseeds, have decided to re-use a Green Revolution-era strategy of distributing free seed packets, say officials familiar with the move. They hope this would shoot up domestic production of oilseeds and reduce the over-reliance on imports. However, experts say that an idea of 1960s vintage may not produce the desired results today.The Narender Singh Tomar-led Union agriculture ministry is giving away thousands of free packets of high-quality oilseeds to farmers in nearly a third of the country’s districts for the kharif (summer crops) season beginning next month. This plan was discussed with the state governments in April.“The government is giving out nearly 800,000 soybean seed mini-kits and 74,000 groundnut mini-kits to farmers to raise production,” said an official requesting anonymity.Just like pulses, India relies on imports to meet its edible oil demand. On an average, the annual demand for edible oils is about 24 million tonnes. While domestic output varies between 8 and 11 million tonnes, up to 60% of the demand is met through imports. High global prices over the past two months have made cooking oil the priciest item in the household food basket.Consumer affairs ministry’s data from a year ago show oil prices have risen by up to 60%. The average cost of a litre of mustard oil rose to ₹170 in May as compared to ₹120 in the corresponding period last year. Similarly, prices of groundnut oil, soya oil, palm oil and sunflower oil are at a decade’s high.The government plans to bring a 6.37 lakh hectare area under oilseed cultivation. This should lead to an output of 12 million quintals of oilseeds, resulting in 2.43 million quintals of edible oil.This strategy had paid dividends for Indian agriculture earlier when the offer of free, high-yielding wheat and rice seeds had worked to stir up the Green Revolution. But experts say that the strategy worked because the farmers didn’t have to worry about selling their produce as the government was an assured buyer. With oilseeds, it may not work as free seeds without a supporting procurement framework and other incentives may not nudge cereal-focused farmers to shift to oilseeds, they say.“The government resorts to mostly token procurement of oilseeds, which has gone up slightly in recent years,” said K S Mani, a farm economist.With high global prices, farmers are likely to grow more oilseeds this year, leading to a glut, and, consequentially, a price crash — a pattern seen repeatedly with many commodities in the country.BV Mehta of Solvent Extractors Association of India, an oilseeds industry body, said the government should offer farmers financial incentives in hard cash per acre for shifting from cereals — of which there is a glut — to oilseeds.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/amid-oil-price-rise-centre-to-distribute-free-oilseeds-101622399202133.html
31-05-2021||India||MPs’ scheme for model villages lags amid Covid||A programme that allows parliamentarians to develop villages has tasted limited success so far, but holds the key for many lawmakers as an alternative to the MPLAD (Member of Parliament Local Area Development) scheme, which has been stalled for two years due to the Covid-19 pandemic, according to officials in the know.The Sansad Adarsh Gram Yojna (SAGY) was launched in 2014 to develop model villages with various social, economic and environmental amenities. The MPs would pick a village in their parliamentary area every year to turn it into a model village.The scheme has, so far, seen a lukewarm response. The official data shows 2,111 gram panchayats have so far been identified under this programme and of that, 1,618 have prepared their development plans. A total of 79,316 activities have been planned for these villages, of which 49,756 have been completed.The official data also shows that phase 2 of the SGSY has seen an even weaker response than the first. In all states except Haryana and Tripura, the second phase saw fewer villages being adopted.Rural development secretary NN Sinha said, “This is not a flop programme but it will take some time to get the results. It requires a lot of focus and long-term goals of all stakeholders, especially the panchayats to make this programme a success, especially in those places that are far behind in terms of progress and amenities.”While the MPLAD scheme brings additional funds of ₹1 crore every year to an MP and he or she is free to spend on a public project anywhere in the constituency, the SGAY doesn’t come with any extra money. “Prime Minister Narendra Modi rightly decided that no extra money would be given and the projects or works would be done from existing government programmes,” said another senior official.The non-availability of additional funds, Sinha argues, is not a dampener but gives a level playing field for other villages. “Other panchayats too can emulate the projects in the model scheme and avail them in their villages.”A Rajya Sabha MP, who didn’t wish to be identified, said, “While the MPLAD had a much wider dimension, the SGAY assumes importance in the post-Covid situation when rural India would require more amenities and development.”Under the programme, a variety of schemes can be sanctioned for a model village. “From building roads, schools to skill development programmes, installing hand pumps or even environmental programmes can be adopted,” said the senior official cited above.Union government officials maintained that while the MPs act as a catalyst in this scheme, the programme’s improvement essentially depends on panchayat leaders.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/mps-scheme-for-model-villages-lags-amid-covid-101622399142110.html
31-05-2021||India||Woman held for killing brothers she was in relationships with||A 40-year-old woman, who allegedly killed her husband with the help of her brother-in-law five years ago, was apprehended for also murdering the brother-in-law to marry another man in Bhopal, said police on Sunday.Police officials said the woman confessed to killing her husband five years ago to be in a relationship with her brother-in-law after she was interrogated on Friday over the latest murder.Police officials said they have arrested the 40-year-old resident of Damkheda area of Bhopal and her tenant Rajesh Bisoriya under section 302 (murder) and 201 (causing disappearance of evidence of offence or giving false information to screen offender) of the Indian Penal Code. Police also apprehended the woman’s son (15) and daughter (16) in connection with the case, said Irshad Wali, deputy inspector general of police, Bhopal.HT is not disclosing the identity of the woman or her brother-in-law as it would also give away the identities of her minor children. Police said the children appeared to have helped their mother and Bisoriya in the latest murder. “The five-year-old mystery of her husband was resolved after the woman, along with her kids and tenant, beat the brother-in-law to death and the body was thrown near a residential locality on Friday,” Wali said. Police on Friday recovered the body, which was partly eaten by stray dogs and pigs.During interrogation, the woman confessed not only to the killing of her brother-in-law, but also told police that she murdered her husband five years ago to be in a relationship with the brother-in-law. Police said she was now in relationship with her tenant and her brother-in-law, who used to live with her, objected to it.“She said she wanted to leave her specially-abled husband to marry his brother, but her husband was not ready to divorce her and used to beat her. Five years ago, the woman and her brother-in-law strangulated the woman’s husband to death. The kids, then 10- and 11-year-old, saw their father’s murder but the woman and the brother-in-law threatened them with dire consequences, if they told anyone about the murder,” said police officer.They buried the husband’s body in the house and the incident was never reported to the police. After her recent confession, police on Saturday exhumed the remains the husband.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/woman-held-for-killing-brothers-she-was-in-relationships-with-101622399082842.html
31-05-2021||India||‘Weakest govt’: Opposition slams 7-year BJP rule||The Opposition on Sunday attacked the Centre for allegedly failing to fulfil its responsibilities and triggering crises at various fronts as the National Democratic Alliance (NDA) government marked the seventh anniversary of its tenure.The Congress said the Prime Minister Narendra Modi-led government’s seven years in power could be summed up in seven “criminal wrongdoings”, accusing the Centre of bringing in a financial crisis, triggering large-scale unemployment and mismanaging the Covid crisis.“In the last seven years, the Modi government has given the country immeasurable pain. It has been seven years since the country got a failed, and mindless government. The country is suffering as unemployment rate reached 11.3% in 7 years. Petrol [prices have crossed] ₹100 and mustard oil ₹200 in many provinces. It has proved to be the weakest government in the country in the 73 years,” Congress spokesperson Randeep Surjewala said in a press conference on Sunday.Surjewala said the government just watched as unemployment rate soared to its highest in 45 years and people died due to lack of life-saving drugs and oxygen.“Time has come to ask who is responsible for insurmountable devastation, agony and anguish and unfathomable pain that has been inflicted on the people of India and that is why it is time for stock-taking,” he said.The Congress alleged that the government was not paying heed to the needs of the poor and the middle-class as it accused the Centre of playing with the livelihoods of farmers to help its “capitalist friends” by bringing in the three controversial farm laws.Surjewaala said the government also failed to protect the country’s sovereignty. “Far from showing the red eye to China, the BJP government could not hold China back from the encroachment within our border in Ladakh,” he said.Shiv Sena MP Sanjay Raut Centre urged the Centre to introspect on whether it has been able to fulfil the basic needs of people as he praised previous governments. “The country is surviving on the good deeds of previous governments since the time of Pandit Jawaharlal Nehru to Manmohan Singh,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/weakest-govt-oppn-slams-7-year-bjprule-101622399082151.html
31-05-2021||India||BJP cadre standing with people, Opposition breaking morale: Nadda||Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) president JP Nadda on Sunday praised the party cadre for providing relief to the people amid the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) surge and attacked the Opposition for allegedly politicising the pandemic as he marked the seventh anniversary of the National Democratic Alliance (NDA) government at the Centre.Addressing party workers virtually, Nadda said the Opposition “quarantined itself” while BJP members continued to work for the people amid the pandemic. “In this pandemic, BJP workers without being bothered about their well-being are standing with the people. But the Opposition has gone into lockdown and quarantined itself. It is visible only in virtual press conferences or on Twitter,” he said.The BJP chief accused the Opposition of trying to create vaccine hesitancy and lowering the country’s morale in the middle of the Covid fight.“The opposition parties tried to break the morale. They said the vaccines are being given without trials and peoples’ lives are being put at risk…it is a BJP vaccine. All kinds of questions and doubts were being raised and the same people are shouting for vaccines today,” he said.Nadda said the party decided not to hold any big events to celebrate day in order to adhere to Covid restrictions but its leaders were continuing to serve the people to mark the occasion.“BJP workers are mature and work with sensitivity. They should continue working with sadhana (dedication). BJP is the only party that took up work for so long and on such a large-scale and created a record for being the only party that worked and offered relief…This will never go unregistered,” he said.Urging party workers to continue helping people, Nadda said that BJP leaders and workers should continue being the “doers” and not get bothered by the “obstructers”.“Some are ‘sadhak’ (doers), while some are ‘badhak’ (obstructers). But we don’t have to get bothered by them and continue in our endeavour to serve people and help them during the pandemic,” he said.Praising the NDA government’s tenure, Nadda said that under Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s leadership the country has firmly faced challenges, grown in confidence and marched towards becoming self-reliant.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/bjp-cadre-standing-with-people-oppn-breaking-morale-nadda-101622399022070.html
31-05-2021||India||Ramdev now says Covid vaccine has no use, he has dual cover with yoga, Ayurveda||Amid his ongoing tussle with the Indian Medical Association (IMA), yoga exponent Ramdev has once again questioned the legitimacy of Covid-19 vaccines, claiming that he hasn’t taken a jab as he enjoyed the dual cover of yoga and Ayurveda. Ramdev further claimed that the fatalities caused by the pandemic showed that allopathy was not 100% effective,“For decades, I have been practising yoga and Ayurveda, so I didn’t feel the need to get vaccinated. Over 100 crore people of India as well as in foreign countries have access to these ancient therapies. In the times to come, Ayurveda will be globally accepted,” Ramdev said.He also alleged that there was a concerted campaign to discredit the ancient Indian system vis-à-vis allopathy.Ramdev recently triggered major outrage after a video of him surfaced in which he was purportedly calling allopathy a “stupid science”. He later retracted those comments following objections by IMA and Union health minister Harsh Vardhan.Smarting under it, Ramdev raised 25 questions on the efficacy of modern medicine. This was followed by the IMA Uttarakhand chapter sending a ₹1,000-crore defamation notice to him, and Delhi Medical Association filing a police complaint.Dr Ajay Khanna, general secretary of the IMA’s Uttarakhand chapter, said they are willing to answer the yoga teacher’s questions and claims in an open discussion.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/ramdev-now-says-vaccine-has-no-use-he-has-dual-cover-with-yoga-ayurveda-101622398963396.html
31-05-2021||India||Viral clip shows Covid patient’s body being thrown in river, 2 held||Two men, one of them wearing a PPE kit, were caught on tape throwing a coronavirus patient’s body from the parapet of a bridge into Rapti river in UP’s Balrampur district, 160km north of Lucknow, police said on Sunday.The incident came to light after the video shot by passersby went viral on Saturday. The unidentified people were also seen tying a stone to the body in an apparent bid to ensure that it did not wash ashore.Additional superintendent of police (ASP), Balrampur, Arvind Mishra said the men, identified as Sanjay Kumar Shukla and Manoj, were arrested. “Both are relatives of the deceased Prem Nath Mishra, 68, a resident of Sohratgarh,” said the ASP.“The investigation is on, and efforts are being made to nab other people involved in the case,” said the ASP while adding, “The district police registered a case under the Epidemic Act against the culprits.”Additional district magistrate (ADM), Balrampur, AK Shukla said, taking cognizance of the video, the district administration set up an inquiry. Chief medical officer, Balrampur, Dr Vijay Bahadur Singh was directed to submit a report of the case.The CMO, in his report, said Mishra was admitted to the district hospital by family members on May 25, after he started facing breathing problems. He later tested positive for Covid-19 and was shifted to the Covid ward on May 26. On May 28, Mishra died, he said.On May 29, Sanjay Kumar Shukla, Mishra’s nephew received the body. As per Covid protocol, he was provided the PPE kits and a hearse to carry the body to the nearby Sisasi ghat for cremation.“Instead, the family members dumped the body in the river with the assistance of a sanitation worker,” the probe report said.On the basis of the report of the CMO, a case was registered under the Epidemic Act against Shukla and other family members on Saturday.On Sunday, they were arrested. “Both will be produced in a local court...,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/viral-clip-shows-covid-patient-s-body-being-thrown-in-river-2-held-101622398962112.html
31-05-2021||India||June’s Covid vaccine quota to be 120 million after 79 million in May||Nearly 120 million vaccine doses will be available for the national Covid vaccination programme in June, the Union ministry of health and family welfare announced on Sunday even as both companies supplying the jabs are looking at ramping up their production capacity to 110-120 million doses from the existing 75-80 million.At least 60 million (60,960,000) doses of Covid-19 vaccines will be supplied to the states and Union territories for vaccination of the priority groups of health care workers (HCWs), frontline workers (FLWs), and people aged 45 years and above as free supply from the central government channel. Apart from that, close to 59 million (58,610,000) vaccine doses will be available for direct procurement by the states and private hospitals.“In June 2021, close to 120 million (119,570,000) doses will be available for the national Covid-19 vaccination programme… Vaccination is an integral pillar of the comprehensive strategy of the government of India for containment and management of the pandemic, along with test, track, treat and Covid-appropriate behaviour. As part of the nationwide vaccination drive, the government of India has been supporting the states and UTs by providing them Covid-19 vaccines free of cost,” the health ministry said in a statement.The ministry, however, did not share a state-wise break-up of the number of vaccine doses allotted for the month of June. According to reports, Serum Institute of India’s chief executive officer, Adar Poonawalla, informed Union home minister Amit Shah that the company would be ramping up vaccine production in June by around 90-100 million doses.SII locally produces the Oxford-AstraZeneca Covid-19 vaccine under the brand name Covishield.On April 16, the ministry of science and technology in a statement also announced that it would help double the production capacity of India’s first make-in-India Covid-19 vaccine, Covaxin, by May-June, 2021, from the existing 10 million doses per month. Bharat Biotech co-developed Covaxin with the Indian Council of Medical Research.The allocation of supplies through the government of India channel to the states and Union territories is decided based on the consumption pattern, population, and vaccine wastage. The supply details are shared in advance for 15/30 days, to ensure better planning and delivery of vaccines.“The supplies are being fast ramped up by the manufactures, so more vaccine doses will be available in weeks to come. The doses need to be effectively distributed also at the state level keeping the current supply scenario in mind. The priority has to be covering the country’s high-risk population -- health care, and frontline workers, and those above 45 years of age,” said a senior central government official, requesting anonymity.From May 1 this year, 50% of the available doses are being earmarked for the states as free of cost supply from the government of India channel, while the remaining 50% is available for direct procurement from manufacturers by the states and private hospitals under the Centre’s “Liberalized Pricing and Accelerated National Covid-19 Vaccination Strategy” .“Visibility for availability of vaccines for the entire month of June 2021 has been provided well in advance to States/UTs by Union Government as communicated to States and UTs vide letters of Union Health Ministry dated 17th May 2021, 27th May 2021 and 29th May 2021… States have been requested to direct the concerned officials to ensure rational and judicious utilization of allocated doses and minimize the vaccine wastage,” the health ministry statement said.The delivery schedule for the current lot of supplies will also be shared with the states in advance. In May, a total of 79 million (79,405,200) doses were available for the national Covid vaccination programme, of which 40 million (40,349,830) doses were made available by the Centre to the states free of cost. In addition, 39 million (39,055,370) doses were also available for direct procurement by the states as well as private hospitals.Experts say vaccination needs to be scaled up.“All vaccines are effective in reducing severity of the disease, and death; therefore, it is important to vaccinate people as fast as possible, especially the country’s vulnerable population,” said Dr GC Khilnani, former head of the pulmonology and sleep medicine department at the All India Institute of Medical Sciences, Delhi.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/india-to-get-nearly-120mn-doses-by-june-says-govt-101622398902030.html
31-05-2021||India||84-year-old Stan Swamy tests Covid-positive||Tribal rights activist Stan Swamy, who is an accused in the Bhima Koregaon case, has tested positive for the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) days after he was moved to a hospital from the Taloja Jail following the Bombay high court’s order, people familiar with the matter said on Sunday.According to Kaustubh Kurlekar, jail superintendent of Taloja prison, the 84-year-old’s counsel informed them that Swamy has tested positive for Covid. He added that jail officials have also sought an update on Swamy’s health status from the private hospital.On Friday, the HC ordered that Swamy, who was arrested in October 2020 for his alleged role in the 2018 Bhima Koregaon violence and Maoist links, be shifted to the Holy Family Hospital for 15 days after his counsel complained of his deteriorating health.“It is not in dispute that the appellant’s age is 84 years and according to the findings by a team of doctors from Sir JJ Hospital, he needs treatment. We request that the administration of Holy Family hospital provide one attendant keeping in view age of appellant,” the bench said.Father Frazer Mascarenhas, a friend of Swamy, said he was relieved when the activist was moved to the hospital. “We are very relieved after Swamy was shifted to Holy Family Hospital as his condition had deteriorated at Taloja jail,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/84yearold-stan-swamy-tests-covid-positive-101622398841968.html
31-05-2021||India||Monsoon onset delayed, likely to hit Kerala on June 3: IMD||The monsoon is likely to begin its onset over Kerala around June 3, two days after its normal date of arrival, the India Meteorological Department (IMD) said in its revised forecast on Sunday. The IMD previously said that the start of the monsoon would be on May 31, a day ahead of schedule.Monsoon rainfall is lifeblood of Asia’s third-largest economy as nearly 60% of the country’s cropped area doesn’t have irrigation coverage. IMD said last month the country was expected to get average monsoon rainfall this year, raising expectations of higher farm output.“The southwesterly winds could strengthen further gradually from June 1, resulting in likely enhancement in rainfall activity over Kerala. Hence the monsoon onset over Kerala is likely to take place around June 3,” IMD said. The department’s director general M Mohapatra said that cyclonic circulation along the Karnataka coast was hindering the progress of the southwest monsoon.In its monsoon forecast on May 14, IMD predicted that the monsoon was likely to arrive over Kerala on May 31 with a possible error margin of plus/minus four days. After very severe storm Yaas weakened recently, scientists said the cyclone over the Bay of Bengal helped strengthen the monsoon winds. But rainfall stopped and no heavy rain has been recorded over Kerala since then.“It should rain for consecutive two days in a certain number of stations. That has not happened. The westerlies should have a certain depth and it should be very cloudy. All these factors have to be met for us to announce the onset. These conditions may start from June 1 and meet criteria by June 3,” said Mohapatra.The southwest monsoon normally sets in over Kerala around June 1. It advances northwards, usually in surges, and covers the entire country by around July 5.Due to the strengthening of lower-level southwesterly winds, fairly widespread to widespread rainfall activity with isolated heavy rain is very likely over the northeastern states during the next five days, IMD said in its Sunday bulletin.These winds are likely to bring isolated heavy rainfall over Kerala and Mahe during the next five days and over coastal Karnataka on June 1 and June 3, while the south interior Karnataka is likely to experience heavy rainfall on June 2 and June 3.The onset of monsoon marks the start of the four-month rainfall season in the country.On Sunday morning, IMD, in its daily bulletin, said the onset of the monsoon over Kerala was expected to be around May 31. By afternoon, however, it said the onset was expected by June 3.However, Skymet Weather, a private forecasting agency, said the monsoon has already made an onset over Kerala. GP Sharma, president (meteorology) of Skymet Weather, said it is a “very weak onset” this year. Skymet earlier predicted that the monsoon will make an onset over Kerala on May 30.(With inputs from agencies)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/monsoon-onset-delayed-likely-to-hit-kerala-on-june-3-imd-101622398782126.html
31-05-2021||India||UAE extends suspension on flights from India till June 30 to combat Covid spread||The United Arab Emirates (UAE) on Sunday extended the suspension of passenger flights from India till June 30 to combat the spread of the coronavirus pandemic.The ban was initially imposed on April 25, after a surge in Covid-19 cases in India.In a statement posted on its website on Sunday, Emirates, the flag carrier of the UAE, said, it has suspended passenger flights from India effective April 24 until June 30."Furthermore, passengers who have transited through India in the last 14 days will not be accepted to travel from any other point to the UAE," it said.However, "UAE nationals, holders of UAE Golden Visas and members of diplomatic missions who comply with the revised published Covid-19 protocols will be exempt for travel," the statement said.Emirates had earlier announced that the flight suspension would continue till June 14.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/uae-extends-suspension-on-flights-from-india-till-june-30-to-combat-covid-spread-101622396916834.html
31-05-2021||India||Test or Class 12 scores? DU gets ready for both||Even as a decision on a common entrance test for all central universities remains pending, Delhi University’s computer centre (DUCC) officials said their team would require two to three months to develop a new admissions portal, in case the entrance test is introduced this year.With the second wave of the pandemic causing a delay in Class 12 exams of the Central Board of Secondary Education (CBSE) as well as other state boards, DU is awaiting a final decision from the ministry on the common entrance test, which will also be dependent on how Class 12 students are being evaluated this year.“We cannot develop a portal or test it as we have no idea what kind of function would be required of it,” said Sanjeev Singh, joint director at DUCC.Apart from the uncertainty over the exam situation, two of the five core developers in Singh’s team are recovering from Covid-19. “Once all our team members are back to work, it should take about eight to 12 weeks to create the admissions portal and conduct the admission process,” he said.Last December, the Union ministry of education formed a committee to look into the modalities of a common entrance test for undergraduate courses at all central universities, in accordance with the National Education Policy, 2020. The committee has submitted its report and universities are currently waiting for the ministry’s response on it.Acting vice-chancellor PC Joshi, who is a member of the Central Universities Common Entrance Test (CUCET) committee, said such a test will become necessary if Class 12 board exams are not conducted this year. “Delhi University admissions are always dependent upon the board exam results. If Class 12 board exams are not conducted, we will have to conduct the CUCET to ensure that admissions are made without compromising on quality and merit,” he said.Delhi University, which has been conducting merit-based admissions for a majority of its undergraduate courses, has held multiple deliberations on how the university would adopt the entrance test.“We have discussed things at our level and the admissions committee has prepared itself for possible scenarios. We will also hold sessions to counsel students on the new admission process so that they don’t face any inconvenience or stress,” Joshi said.Since CUCET will be conducted by the National Testing Agency (NTA), which currently conducts the entrance tests for nine undergraduate courses at DU, the university will have to tie up with the testing agency to facilitate the admission process.Former dean (admissions), Shobha Bagai, said that DU will have to look into several modalities. “Various matters have to be decided apart from the weightage to be awarded for the entrance test and board exam results. For instance, what if students were opting for a stream change, then what kind of test would they opt for? If CUCET is to be implemented, officials would also need to think about many scenarios and make policy decisions,” she said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/test-or-class-12-scores-du-gets-ready-for-both-101622237336329.html
