01-01-2022||The Centre’s decision to store all foodgrains in a scientific manner by the coming March by doing away with the unscientific cover and plinth (CAP) method of stocking is the best New Year resolution that our country could have made. For||Silos for grain storage||The woeful shortfall in the scientific storage infrastructure for stocking lakhs of tonnes of the staple crops — mainly wheat and rice — has resulted in a criminally huge loss of grains. It is shameful that the country is home to the largest number of food-insecure people in the world despite producing bumper crops. Their plight is rendered more pitiable as the situation is to an extent attributable to the lack of proper stocking of the produce for consumption later. Punjab alone has seen a sharp increase in damage to foodgrains: from 8 tonnes lost in 2016-17, to 211 tonnes in 2017-18 and 318 tonnes in 2018-19. Even as we, decades ago, graduated from being a grain-importing nation to one with surplus production following the shift to scientific and mechanised farming practices, the failure to keep pace in building silos alongside has caused massive damage every year as grains lay exposed to the vagaries of weather or infestation by rats and other pests.The Centre must overcome all hurdles and deliver on its pledge of setting up enough silos in Punjab, Haryana and Madhya Pradesh — the key producer states — to help in feeding the country’s 1.4 billion people, plus having sizeable quantities of grains left over for export. China achieved such a status after ensuring scientific crop storage two decades ago. It's high time we followed suit.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/editorials/silos-for-grain-storage-356791
01-01-2022||The Election Commission of India (ECI) faces a slew of challenges as it finalises the schedule for the Assembly polls in five states — Uttar Pradesh||Polls amid Covid||The 2021 elections in West Bengal, Tamil Nadu, Kerala, Assam and Puducherry had coincided with the peak of the pandemic’s devastating second wave. The rallies and roadshows organised by various parties contributed to the fast-rising caseload as Covid protocols were blatantly violated. The ECI had been accused of remaining a mute spectator to the violations, even as the Madras High Court had held the poll panel ‘singularly responsible’ for the spread of the second wave in the country.It is expected that the ECI would have learnt lessons from the 2021 experience and will get its act together this time right at the outset. Though it may not be feasible to impose a blanket ban on major rallies, detailed guidelines for streamlining these gatherings can be worked out. With the BJP expressing willingness to hold virtual rallies in view of the worsening Covid situation, the ECI can explore the option of encouraging all parties to go for the online mode of campaigning in a big way. The onerous task of ensuring free, fair and safe elections will surely test the poll panel to the hilt.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/editorials/polls-amid-covid-356793
