03-01-2022||In a novel move||A needy category||Government employment remains the preferred choice of most educated youngsters in the state for the relative job stability and good pay packet it offers. Not everyone has the aptitude for the rigours and pressures or the financial investments demanded by most other professions, including farming and businesses, as they are riddled with uncertainties and ups and downs. The regular unravelling of scams and wrongdoings indulged in during various recruitment processes in Haryana — as also elsewhere — are testimony to the lengths that people go to for bagging a government post.Notably, the continuation of reservation for the Dalits and other traditionally backward castes over generations led to the demand of exclusion of the creamy layers among these groups from the quota, based on the right to equality. It was crystallised into a law. Those still backward, with none in their families having crossed to the mainstream, were unjustly pitted against the wards of the creamy layers who had advanced in life, socially, economically and educationally. Similarly, in the general category, certain sections of people whose family members are well placed in jobs or businesses are more equal than those not so fortunate. This section deserves incentivisation and Haryana has rightly identified it as a needy category.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/editorials/a-needy-category-357468
03-01-2022||A massive rush of devotees||Vaishno Devi tragedy||A place of worship demands a semblance of calm, where any abrasive conduct is actively discouraged by the task force deployed on the premises and the devotees themselves. For a society not attuned to the notion of forming queues and patiently waiting for one’s turn, the prominent shrines in most parts of the country, to their credit, put a lot of premium on the orderly flow of devotees and ensure that the disciplinary norms are religiously followed. The same can be said of the Vaishno Devi shrine, which has over the years witnessed a number of changes to make the yatra easier for pilgrims. But a tragedy of huge proportions has taken place, 12 lives have been lost, and a close scrutiny of the chain of events is expected amid charges of mismanagement and inadequate preparation. Administrative lapses, if any, should invite strict action. Besides relooking at the entire crowd control mechanism for any possible loopholes, new regulations would need to be put in place.Like at election rallies, the pandemic restrictions are being brazenly disregarded at shrines, too, without a murmur of protest. The tragedy also calls for being firm about restricting the number of devotees allowed at any given time, and encouraging online darshan.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/editorials/vaishno-devi-tragedy-357467
