04-01-2022||The scale of the tragedy at an opencast quarry mining site in Tosham block of Bhiwani district warrants a far-reaching inquiry. The candid observation by the ruling BJP’s Bhiwani-Mahendragarh MP||Illegal, unscientific mining||Only last year, a report submitted by an inspection committee had termed the mining at Dadam unscientific. Ways in the forest area were created illegally, it claimed, and mining equipment was found in non-minable forest area of ‘Dadam Hills Minor’. The accident incidentally took place just a day after lifting of the two-month ban imposed by the National Green Tribunal on mining work in the area due to pollution. Resorting to setting off explosions and multi-tasking to overcome a shortage of building material, triggering a landslip as a consequence, cannot be accepted as a plausible explanation. That only indicates how unscientific and illegal practices could well be the norm, and complaints of flouting of due processes have been routinely ignored.Mining is a lucrative business, and influence matters a huge deal, as alluded to by the apex court itself. There are strict norms in place for environmental and other clearances, but the random violations and their prolonged continuation only show how playing around with the legal provisions is common. The Haryana Government, which likes to talk about zero tolerance to corruption, needs to go beyond a routine probe and show its intent to deal with the issue in all seriousness. The apparent deep-seated corruption is a challenge that requires an institutional assault.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/editorials/illegal-unscientific-mining-357856
04-01-2022||The communally motivated and sexist ‘Bulli Bai’ app has surfaced just six months after the ‘Sulli Deals’ app and website had plundered publicly available pictures of Muslim women and described them as ‘deals of the day’. The failure of the law enforcement agencies to crack down on the perpetrators in the ‘Sulli Deals’ case has emboldened cyber criminals and hate-mongers to spew misogynistic venom all over again. The Delhi Police have registered an FIR against unknown persons for allegedly uploading a doctored picture of a woman journalist||Brazen misogyny||Worldwide, cyberspace is increasingly becoming a haven for perverts, trolls and purveyors of toxic masculinity. And India is no exception. In 2020, around 2,300 cases of cybercrimes against women were registered in the country, up from 1,600 reported in 2019. The majority of these crimes pertain to the publication or transmission of sexually explicit material. Blackmail, defamation, morphing, creating fake profiles and cyber stalking are some of the ways in which criminals hound and insult women.Apart from exemplary action against the culprits, there is a dire need to firm up the legal provisions so that the law can act as a potent deterrent. The Information Technology (Amendment) Act, 2008, made almost all cybercrimes bailable and reduced the quantum of punishment for most of the offences. For instance, five years’ imprisonment for online obscenity made way for a one-year jail term. Increasing use of mobile phones and greater access to the Internet have made women more vulnerable to online harassment. Central and state governments must take the lead in prioritising safety of women — no matter which community they belong to — and bring social media platforms to book for not doing enough to stem the rot.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/editorials/brazen-misogyny-357855
