05-01-2022||Amid apprehensions over a fresh surge in cases of Omicron variant of the coronavirus||Jabs for adolescents||The availability and access to vaccines will remain a challenge till the whole of the eligible population is covered, the emergence of variants of the virus not helping matters. For now, Covaxin has been approved for those in the 15-17 age group, with the government clarifying that those 18 years or above can be administered the other vaccines available. With this comes the responsibility to streamline the logistics to avoid confusion and make the exercise convenient. While vaccination for adolescents is still in its early days, efforts should be made to avoid a repeat of the instances where adverse effects can cause vaccine hesitancy. Getting inoculated should be seen as an act of encouragement for the societal well-being and not a compulsory measure.With elections to the states of Uttar Pradesh, Uttarakhand, Punjab, Manipur and Goa expected to be held in the weeks ahead, along with the likelihood of the involvement of young adults in the exercise, the comment by UP Chief Minister Yogi Adityanath that Omicron is common viral fever and Covid is nearing its end can only be termed as irresponsible. Allaying apprehensions is fine, but a casual and reckless attitude is not called for when the CM’s own state witnessed bodies floating in the rivers during the second Covid wave. Poll-bound states should ramp up vaccination instead of indulging in inanities.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/editorials/jabs-for-adolescents-358175
05-01-2022||Indian and Chinese troops exchanged sweets at border posts along the Line of Actual Control (LAC)||China at it again||In another telltale sign of provocative posturing, China recently renamed the Sela pass, eight villages and towns, four mountains and two rivers in ‘Zagnan’ or South Tibet — the name used by Beijing for Arunachal Pradesh. The move comes amid ongoing construction of the Sela tunnel, likely to be ready by June this year, by India’s Border Roads Organisation. The tunnel is expected to facilitate faster movement of Indian troops in Arunachal’s Tawang, a strategically located district bordering China. It was in the Tawang sector that Indian and Chinese troops were engaged in a brief face-off in October last year. That month, the 13th round of Corps Commander-level military talks had ended in a stalemate. No round of talks has been held since then.New Delhi has rightly been holding Beijing responsible for not walking the talk on ensuring long-term peace and tranquillity in the border areas. While remaining in a state of high alert, India should continue to ramp up infrastructure along the LAC. India’s efforts to bolster its military prowess, including the deployment of a state-of-the-art air defence missile system, are undoubtedly keeping China on tenterhooks. Exercising restraint in the face of provocation will be a challenge, even as every Chinese misadventure must evoke a firm response. Matching the hostile neighbour’s battle-readiness will hold the key to a stable balance of power in the region.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/editorials/china-at-it-again-358174
