06-01-2022||With more panic-stricken states imposing restrictions in a bid to check the surge in Covid-19 cases||Covid shadow on growth||The experience of the first and second waves shows that lockdowns – national or state level – have caused irreparable damage to millions of livelihoods. India’s economy shrunk by a colossal 24.4 per cent in April-June 2020, when the world’s most stringent lockdown was in force. The second wave was far more devastating than the first, but the curbs were mostly short-term and local. With economic activity almost returning to pre-Covid levels, the April-June 2021 quarter witnessed a GDP growth of 20.1 per cent, though the low base of the year-ago period helped to paint an over-optimistic picture.There is a strong case for keeping the disruptions to the bare minimum. The pace at which Omicron is spreading is far higher than the rise in hospitalisations. In Delhi, for instance, the rate of new infections has increased over 80 times than the lowest figure post the second wave, while the corresponding hospitalisations have risen only three-fold. Also, with the cumulative Covid vaccine doses administered in the country nearing the 150-crore mark, and teenagers coming under the ambit of the vaccination drive, there is no compelling reason to stop fully inoculated people from going about their day-to-day activities – provided they adhere to Covid protocols. Prodding the unvaccinated and partially vaccinated citizens to do the needful at the earliest is another step which can ensure that economic recovery doesn’t get derailed.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/editorials/covid-shadow-on-growth-358473
06-01-2022||Astudy conducted two years ago highlighted driver fatigue||Fixed driving hours||The issue of fixed driving hours and mandatory rest is covered under the Motor Transport Workers Act enacted way back in 1961. Private truck, bus or taxi operators pay scant regard, but even the government staff have aired grievances. This has prompted the Punjab and Haryana High Court to make it clear that bus drivers, employed by Haryana’s Transport Department in this case, would not be made to drive on a day-to-day basis beyond 10 hours, and 48 hours staggered over a week. They would also be entitled to take extra rest on long stretches, the judge stressed. Strict application of the same norms for private entities would be a leap forward for road safety and employee welfare.The amendments to the Motor Vehicles Act were expected to bring about a dramatic change in the way Indians behave on the road, infusing more discipline by tightening rules and increasing penalties. It’s been a slow start. Other than traffic rule infringement, potholes are the main source of mishaps. On endless lanes, traffic signals are either not present, do not stand out, or are hidden behind trees. Fixing these localised issues should be as important as the mega plans.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/editorials/fixed-driving-hours-358474
