07-01-2022||The investigation into the December 8 helicopter crash||Coonoor crash probe||The probe seems to have quashed doubts about the airworthiness of Mi-17V5, an advanced military transport chopper that has been with the IAF since 2012. However, the fact remains that a few crashes involving the Mi-17 helicopter have taken place in the past decade or so. A periodic tech review of these flying machines is a must to ensure that their generally good track record in terms of safety is not blemished by occasional mishaps. The efficiency and reliability of the warning systems should also be reassessed so that the role of weather disturbances in air crashes can be minimised.Days after the Coonoor accident, IAF Chief VR Chaudhari had said that the procedures concerning flying by VVIPs would be reviewed on the basis of the inquiry findings. This exercise should be carried out promptly and meticulously. Even as the last major air crash involving India’s defence officers occurred way back in 1963, the country has lost several politicians in chopper mishaps in recent decades — the then Andhra Pradesh Chief Minister YS Rajasekhara Reddy, Haryana ministers Surender Singh and OP Jindal, to name a few. Strict norms for VVIP flights, which witness increased frequency during the election season, can reduce the risk and prevent the loss of precious lives.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/editorials/coonoor-crash-probe-358849
07-01-2022||The arrest of four young suspects in the heinous Bulli Bai case points to the disturbing trend of the vitriol perpetrated by the politics of hate having seeped into the minds of a new generation that has grown up in an atmosphere prickly with communal polarisation. The rogue elements in this tech-savvy generation seem to be skilled in evading or outpacing the cyber cops as they master the tricks of the ever-changing cyberworld. The Bulli Bai sordid online drama||Sullying young minds||The racket seems to be widespread as those arrested include the alleged ‘mastermind and creator’ of the egregious app, an engineering student from Assam, two students from Uttarakhand and one from Bengaluru. The accused allegedly used Sikh names to hide their identity. It is indeed distressing that youngsters — in their late teens or early twenties — should be misled or lured into misusing their talents to ostensibly bully and silence women of a minority community by spreading hateful and insulting comments against them on social media. Notably, among the targeted women, whose morphed photos were used, are journalists, lawyers and the mother of a missing Muslim student. Muddling the dirty tale further and one that may fly in the cops’ face is the claim of a Twitter user from Nepal that he is the brains behind Bulli Bai.The law enforcement authorities need to up their game and get to the bottom of the case, the key to which is likely held by GitHub. With cybercrimes related to stalking, bullying, intimidating and blackmailing on the rise — over 50,000 were reported in 2020 as per NCRB data — a case is made out for bigger investments in cyber experts and budgets to curb crime. At the same time, every girl entering the virtual world must be armed with awareness of cyber safety rules and not be afraid of reporting anything untoward.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/editorials/sullying-young-minds-358850
