08-01-2022||Just in time for the upcoming Assembly elections in the states of UP||Poll spend limit up||However, for all practical purposes, the exercise is farcical. Firstly, while crores of rupees are openly spent on polls, no candidate ever declares expenditure beyond the prescribed limit. Secondly — and, more importantly — there is no limit on the amount that poll parties can spend, giving the candidates a free run! Audit data for the 2015-2020 period shows that over Rs 6,500 crore was spent on elections by 18 political parties. Of this, the BJP accounted for the lion’s share, spending Rs 3,600 crore and the Congress came next with Rs 1,400 crore spent. Thus, the two parties’ expenditure comprised a humongous 77 per cent of the total. Interestingly, the parties spent the maximum money — 52.3 per cent — on publicity alone.With fighting elections having become a multi-crore-rupee game, poor candidates or those without the backing of political parties, unfortunately, stand little chance of winning. As the Assemblies and Parliament get packed with crorepati MPs (in the 2019 Lok Sabha, 88 per cent are crorepatis) and MLAs, representatives truly reflecting all economic strata of society are sadly missing.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/editorials/poll-spend-limit-up-359146
08-01-2022||The Dadam mine landslide||Regulate mining||Besides focusing on workers’ safety and environmental degradation, there is a need to look at the larger picture so as to streamline mining operations in the entire state. With mining being a steady money-spinner for the government as well as private players, there is a tendency to bend or bypass rules to maximise profits. It is significant that Haryana earned revenue of Rs 1,022.63 crore from the mining sector in the 2020-21 financial year, 31 per cent more than the figure for 2019-20, and that too despite the Covid-induced lockdown and other restrictions.Illegal mining is a double whammy — it causes loss of revenue to the exchequer and wreaks havoc on natural resources. The law necessitates paperwork for each activity — mineral extraction, storage, transportation — but compliance is poor due to collusion between contractors, transporters and officials. Such is the state of affairs that the High Court had to remind the Himachal Pradesh government of the duly laid-down rule that no minor mineral would be allowed to be transported without a transit pass, which is issued by the mining officer or any other authorised officer. The authorities should ensure transparency in the grant or denial of the transit pass and other permissions. Greater use of satellite technology can help them crack down on the violators, even as periodic physical inspections are no less important. A workable regulatory mechanism that facilitates legal mining and curbs illicit practices is the way forward.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/editorials/regulate-mining-359147
