10-01-2022||The Centre has been prudent in not prolonging the row by restoring the Foreign Contribution Regulation Act (FCRA) registration of the Missionaries of Charity. The new certificate||Restoring confidence||On January 1, about 6,000 organisations lost their FCRA licences, needed by the NGOs to receive foreign funding, either because they failed to renew them or their applications were rejected. If the Odisha Chief Minister’s direction to all district collectors to ensure that no unit of the Missionaries of Charity in the state faced a financial crisis was not embarrassing enough for the Centre, the debate in the UK House of Lords sought answers from India for the blocking of overseas funds that some peers claimed would impact life-saving work. The charity’s response of delight at the restoration came with the attestation that people who are donating know it is for the poor ‘and they also raised their voices’.It cannot be mere coincidence that accusations of proselytisation are being hurled by some right-wing leaders against the organisation, which has refuted the charges. Flagging hate speech and attacks on minorities, over 180 students and faculty members of the IIMs in Bengaluru and Ahmedabad have written to the Prime Minister, saying that his silence emboldens voices of hate. The letter urges him to steer the country away from forces that seek to divide, and concludes that for far too long, the mainstream discourse has dismissed the voices of hate as the fringe, and ‘that’s how we are here’. The resolution of the FCRA episode can be a starting point in ending the senseless cycle of hate. Silence is not an option.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/editorials/restoring-confidence-359723
10-01-2022||That only 1 per cent of the children in the 13-15 age group use tobacco products in Himachal Pradesh||HP kids shun tobacco||58 per cent in Arunachal Pradesh and Mizoram. ‘Catching them young’ is the key to motivating people not to consume tobacco products later in life and also keep away from other harmful and addictive substances.With the equally encouraging trend of a significant reduction in the consumption of the hazardous tobacco and smoking among adults over the years, the exemplary state is poised for a faster check on the spread of the menace that causes serious illnesses and kills lakhs of people every year. Massive awareness campaigns, warnings on cigarette labels, banning smoking in public and prohibiting the sale of tobacco products to minors and around educational institutions as well as penalties and fines imposed on the violators have majorly contributed to the effective implementation of state policies.However, the tobacco lobby is powerful and containing it is a daunting task. The authorities need to be more vigilant in checking the smuggling of tobacco products from across the border and their sale. Reports of the border districts of Punjab being the transit points for the movement of foreign and Indian brands of cigarettes routed from Delhi point to a huge, unaccounted-for clandestine market. Reports published in The Tribune over the past few months reveal a ground reality that is disturbing as it belies official claims. The easy availability of gutkha, khaini pan masala and chewable tobacco products on the black market in areas such as lower Kangra and Palampur and a clientele — across age groups and rural-urban locations — ready to procure them at prices higher than the MRP paint a dark picture. A stringent crackdown on the smugglers and traders by the authorities is needed to curb the illegal trade running into crores of rupees.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/editorials/hp-kids-shun-tobacco-359724
