11-01-2022||THE message to the public at large needs reiteration on a daily basis as the Covid-19 cases mount across the country||Oxygen preparedness||It was to avoid a repeat that the Haryana government had in May last year made it mandatory for all hospitals with 50-plus beds to set up oxygen plants within six months. With the third wave baring its fangs, the state Health Minister has expressed confidence of being prepared to tackle any eventuality. As part of the stocktaking, tough action is likely to be initiated against at least 17 private hospitals in Rohtak, Jhajjar and Mahendragarh districts which are yet to establish oxygen plants on their premises citing issues of funds and space. Haryana’s strict approach needs to be emulated.A vital part of the Centre’s policy push after last year’s fiasco has been ramping up the production and distribution of medical oxygen, while ensuring that health facilities have their own captive oxygen generation plants and storage tanks. Another key component is the training of operators. The focus at present has to be on the preparedness status of the entire spectrum of oxygen equipment, as also mock drills to ensure that the oxygen flow adheres to purity and there are no leakages. Any non-compliance or misrepresentation needs swift redressal. Covid-19 is a continuing emergency, there can be no room for laxity.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/editorials/oxygen-preparedness-360088
11-01-2022||WITH the model code of conduct coming into force in five states||Challenges for ECI||Keeping in view the Omicron spread, the ECI has banned physical rallies and roadshows till January 15, while laying greater stress on digital and virtual modes of campaigning. A decision on revoking or extending the ban will be taken on the basis of the prevailing situation. Several Opposition parties have asked the poll panel to keep in mind the glaring digital divide, especially in Uttar Pradesh, while reviewing its move on physical rallies. Depriving candidates of opportunities to reach out to voters who have no access to mobile phones and the Internet goes against the spirit of democracy. Also, the hegemony of a couple of parties in the digital space will give them an unfair edge over their rivals.Considering the relative mildness of Omicron, rallies and roadshows should be allowed with reasonable restrictions. Ensuring adherence to Covid protocols will be an onerous task for every party. There will obviously be violations pertaining to mask-wearing and social distancing. What the ECI can do is focus on the major infringements and take strict action against offenders who pay no heed to repeated warnings. Hate speech and fake news will also test the mettle of the poll panel, which surely has its hands full.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/editorials/challenges-for-eci-360087
