12-01-2022||THE Delhi High Court||Criminalising domestic rape||Indeed, an incisive and nuanced insight is needed into the reason for providing for such an exception in the Indian Penal Code, which makes India one of around 30 countries in which marital rape is not criminalised. In 2000, the Law Commission had opposed criminalising marital rape, arguing that ‘it may amount to excessive interference with the marital relationship’. In 2013, the JS Verma Committee recommended that marital rape be criminalised, but four years later, a Parliamentary Standing Committee opposed it on the grounds that ‘the entire family system will be under great stress’ if it were criminalised.Such reasons given against removing this exception in law seem shallow, with not adequate consideration given to the welfare of women. But the difficulty of gathering evidence regarding this offence must be acknowledged. One facet of the issue that needs to be examined is the practicality and integrity of evidence if the married couple is going through a strained relationship or a separation when their accusations against each other could be suspect. However, domestic violence is a crime that is rampant but grossly underreported, and criminality of sexual violence in a marriage must be acknowledged and marriage must not be considered as lifelong consent.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/editorials/criminalising-domestic-rape-360388
12-01-2022||HATE speeches have come under judicial scrutiny||Hate speeches||Uttarakhand is among the five states going to the polls next month. The Election Commission of India (ECI) has already cautioned political parties over hate speeches and said that it is keeping tabs on social media posts. Even as an SIT formed by the BJP government in the hill state is probing the Hardwar case, the ruling party is being accused of dragging its feet on the sensitive issue due to electoral considerations. What seems to have emboldened the hate-mongers is the silence of the Central and state governments on the ‘genocidal’ speeches, which were also delivered at a recent conclave in Raipur, Chhattisgarh.‘Practise your religion but don’t abuse and indulge in hate speech and writings’ — that’s what Vice President M Venkaiah Naidu said at an event held in Kerala last week to mark the 150th death anniversary of Saint Kuriakose Elias Chavara, a 19th-century Catholic priest and social reformer. His strong disapproval of attempts to ridicule other religions and create dissensions in society ought to spur politicians of all hues to call out the black sheep. However, most of them are preferring to remain mute spectators with an eye on their vote banks. With the political class generally reluctant to condemn bigotry and intolerance, the courts and the ECI would have to go the extra mile to ensure exemplary action against those spreading hatred and inciting violence in the name of religion.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/editorials/hate-speeches-360387
