13-01-2022||THE decision by Vodafone Idea to opt for the Department of Telecommunications’ rescue plan linked to equity sends out confusing signals. The mounting debt of nearly Rs 2 lakh crore may be a key factor behind the telecom operator offering 35.8 per cent equity to the Government of India against the dues — related to spectrum auction instalments and adjusted gross revenue payments — but it is unclear as to what the Centre hopes to achieve by handholding a stressed company||Vodafone Idea equity||While the message through the heavy-lifting could be to prevent the telecom sector from becoming a duopoly of Reliance Jio and Airtel, Vodafone Idea would need to thrive and not merely survive. The brutal response by the markets notwithstanding, the general belief in the industry circles is that Vodafone Idea will now have more room to raise external funds and benefit from the cash flows to catch up with the competition. Improving network quality and investing in new technologies would score high on the priority list. Uncertainty, however, remains on its ability to meet enhanced payments to the government after the moratorium period ends.Clarity is needed on concerns about the government’s role going forward. Will this bailout be enough, and does it have the financial bandwidth to invest regularly in a sector driven by big-ticket technological innovations? The telecom major claims the government has no desire to run the company, so the possibility of a public sector approach to board governance would not arise. The counter-argument could be that the government, by becoming the largest shareholder in the struggling telco, will have interest in protecting the equity value of the company, and that would require some level of management control. At stake is the taxpayer’s money. The roadmap needs to be spelt out clearly.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/editorials/vodafone-idea-equity-360729
13-01-2022||THE scenario in Maharashtra has been described by the Supreme Court as ‘very disturbing’||Maharashtra mess||The chronology of events needs to be closely scrutinised. Param Bir was removed as Mumbai Police Commissioner in March 2021 over alleged mishandling of the probe into the recovery of an explosives-laden SUV near industrialist Mukesh Ambani’s house. Subsequently, he shot off a letter to Chief Minister Uddhav Thackeray, alleging that Deshmukh used to set extortion targets for police officers. Deshmukh quit his ministerial post in April, shortly after the Bombay High Court ordered a CBI probe into the allegations of corruption levelled by Param Bir. A key player in this sordid saga is ‘encounter specialist’ Sachin Waze, an accused in the SUV case and the subsequent murder of Thane businessman Mansukh Hiran. Waze had been reinstated by the Maharashtra police in 2020, over a decade after the tainted assistant inspector submitted his resignation.The goings-on in Maharashtra have brought into sharp focus the politician-police-criminal nexus. The Supreme Court is bang on about nobody being holier-than-thou in this whole scenario: ‘When things go fine everybody gets along, when things don’t go fine everybody is getting at each other.’ Even as the Shiv Sena-NCP-Congress government has repeatedly been at loggerheads with the BJP-ruled Centre, political considerations should not be allowed to influence the investigation into the allegations against both Deshmukh and Param Bir. At stake here is the credibility of the law enforcement and investigative agencies.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/editorials/maharashtra-mess-360728
