14-01-2022||The 14th round of Corps Commander-level talks between India and China||In for the long haul||China’s systematic build-up of infrastructure along the LAC has elicited a strong response from India, which has been raising structures of its own to fortify its defences and facilitate faster movement of troops. At the same time, New Delhi’s eagerness to settle differences through dialogue underlines its commitment to peace and stability in the region. However, China’s aggressive posturing and its cartographic interventions — described by India as a ‘ridiculous exercise’ to support untenable territorial claims — are proving to be major stumbling blocks.Even as India expects China to see reason sooner than later, there are indications that Islamabad may prioritise geo-economic interests over geo-strategic rivalry. Pakistan, which is in the throes of a deep financial crisis, is set to unveil its new National Security Policy, which will revolve around economic security. An official has been quoted as saying that Pakistan is not seeking hostility with India ‘for the next 100 years’, holding out hope for the resumption of dialogue and revival of trade ties — even if the Kashmir issue remains unresolved. These are good tidings, but the proof of the pudding, of course, is in the eating.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/editorials/in-for-the-long-haul-361011
14-01-2022||With the third wave of the Covid pandemic upon us||Preventing homeward flight||On January 1, PM Modi said India would not allow the pandemic to ‘dampen’ development in 2022, and that the country would fight it with ‘full caution and vigilance’ and also take care of the national interest. Inherent in the PM’s address was the suggestion that India would not enforce another lockdown. However, workers seem unconvinced — with several states imposing partial restrictions and night curfews, they are worried about being left high and dry if the situation worsens. The State and its institutions have lost the confidence of the workers, who are unable to decipher fact from rumour regarding an impending lockdown.According to the National Sample Survey of 2007-08, around 28.3% of India’s workforce were migrants. The 2011 Census showed that around 37% of population — 45.36 crore people — comprised migrants. The most vulnerable are the unskilled or semi-skilled workers who were suddenly out of work, trapped in a city with no job or money in 2020. Such a large number of people having to migrate for work shows there is a lack of economic opportunities in villages. A multi-pronged, long-term policy is needed to meet these challenges. In the short term, migrant workers need to be given the confidence that even in the case of the pandemic worsening, they would be looked after by their employers and governments.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/editorials/preventing-homeward-flight-361008
