17-01-2022||THE Punjab and Haryana High Court has ordered that interrogation rooms would also be covered by the Supreme Court’s directions on installing CCTV cameras in police stations. Such e-surveillance can help in checking whether extrajudicial methods are being adopted during the interrogation of the accused||CCTV at police stations||While installing CCTV cameras in police stations may be deemed a right step, it points to the failure of the system to ensure the due process of law by which the grievances of an aggrieved citizen can be redressed in the normal course. Police stations are not similar in terms of facilities; in remote areas, they are even bereft of basic amenities. Will the CCTV cameras help in alleviating the distress of those detained in lockups? And will senior officers find time to routinely scrutinise the footage and take action against the violators?Police excesses often go unpunished due to loopholes in the legal system and the inability of the victims to provide clinching evidence. The police have been imposing fines for traffic rule violations on the basis of CCTV footage. Extending the technology to their own ambit of functioning will require extraordinary integrity. Keeping a watch through CCTV cameras should have a deterrent effect and not be intrusive. The police force needs to be sensitised regarding misuse of powers and overreach. Interrogation under CCTV surveillance should be accompanied by greater stress on forensic sciences in collection, storage and interpretation of evidence.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/editorials/cctv-at-police-stations-361847
17-01-2022||THE Pakistan Government offered two sneak previews of its first-ever national security policy last week. The first input by an unnamed official to the media was about the policy focusing on geo-economics. Then||Pakistan’s new policy||In terms of the traditional security framework, Pakistan plans to not just upgrade its capabilities in continental defence but also step up its maritime activities, all with an eye on India where ‘a regressive and dangerous ideology’ has heightened the prospect of violent conflict. For an ecosystem that is well and truly on the ventilator, Pakistan would do well with the extra focus on economics. Surprisingly, instead of reducing the aggressive space for disagreement on trade, the policy counter-accuses India of ‘holding hostage’ eastward connectivity. The disconnect between rhetoric and reality cannot be starker. For over two months now, Pakistan has been unable to decide on land transit for Indian aid to the starving people of Afghanistan.The strategic goals of a ‘dedicated focus’ on export-led growth will remain partly fulfilled if Pakistan continues to block access of its businesses to a natural market in the Indian subcontinent. The policy rightly points out that sustainable and inclusive economic growth is needed to bolster traditional and human security. It claims to demonstrate resolve against extremism and sectarianism, both of which have been fuelled by the ISI’s violent meddling in different parts of India. It is unfair to make assumptions from only half a policy. But the conspicuous sense of hostility in the 17 references to India suggests that Pakistan needs more soul-searching for economics to become the principal load-bearing pillar of its ties with India.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/editorials/pakistans-new-policy-361846
