20-01-2022||With the Supreme Court upholding the winding up of Devas Multimedia||Devas imbroglio||The annulment of the contract prompted Devas to take the arbitration route at the International Chamber of Commerce. Separate proceedings were initiated under the country’s bilateral investment treaties with Mauritius and Germany. India lost all three cases and has to pay an arbitration award of around $1.3 billion. Pushed to the brink by adverse rulings of international arbitration tribunals in the cases of UK telecom major Vodafone Group and oil producer Cairn Energy, the government enacted the Taxation Laws (Amendment) Act last year, nullifying the retrospective tax provisions that were introduced in 2012 — again during the UPA’s tenure.The ruling NDA is justified in lashing out at its predecessor for the legacy disputes that are denting India’s reputation among international investors. Earlier this week, PM Narendra Modi showcased the country as an ideal investment destination, citing reforms implemented by his government — reduction in compliance requirements, doing away with retrospective taxation and simplification of the corporate tax rate structure. Such measures won’t achieve the best results unless the Devas tangle is sorted out at the earliest. The onus is on the government to resolve arbitration issues without loss of face so as to regain investors’ confidence.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/editorials/devas-imbroglio-362722
20-01-2022||Even as much tom-tomming and chest-thumping over attaining gender parity followed the fall of one of the last standing male bastions last year — of women being allowed permanent commission into the defence forces through the NDA — the reality is a bit grey. While the door has definitely been opened||Limited intake||However, as their number was again fixed at 19 (out of the total intake of 400) this year, dashing the hopes of many gritty aspirants, the SC has been constrained to seek an explanation. The Centre has three weeks to formulate a credible account for arriving at this figure again, considering the overwhelming response by women candidates. Out of over 5.75 lakh applications received this time, 1.77 lakh were from women. And, in the NDA exam held in November, of the 8,009 candidates who qualified for the SSB test and medical tests, notably, 1,002 are women. In their defence, the administrators need to elucidate on the requirement of the forces, taking into account the fact that women are still not deployed in all fields of the tri-services and that there are genuine reservations over their roles in direct combat warfare.Ever since women were first allowed into the forces in 1992 in India on an experimental basis and then given Short Service Commission for five years, their progress over these three decades by way of induction or rising through the ranks has been steady but painfully slow despite many armies across the world showing the women proving their prowess and mettle in the field. It seems their wait for assuming command positions has not yet shortened.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/editorials/limited-intake-362720
