21-01-2022||In a move that could trigger a frantic race among the states at the cost of compromising on environmental protection||Green go-ahead||An SEIAA will get two marks if it takes less than 80 days on an average for granting clearance; one mark for less than 105 days; 0.5 for 105-120 days; and zero for over 120 days. The rating system is aimed at cutting red tape and facilitating ease of doing business. However, the speed at which projects are okayed should not be the primary criterion to grade the efficiency of a body tasked with curbing environmental degradation. The ranking exercise might prompt the authorities to bypass norms and stop short of ticking all the boxes. The focus should be on granting eco clearance within a broad time frame, even as officials must be held accountable for inordinate and unreasonable delays.Unregulated construction and mining activity in ecologically fragile areas has assumed alarming proportions. Landslides caused by illegal and unscientific mining in Haryana’s Bhiwani and Mahendragarh districts have claimed a total of six lives this month. In neighbouring Himachal Pradesh, where landslips often occur during the rainy season, the 17 ‘no construction’ green belts of Shimla are proposed to be thrown open for the raising of residential buildings. Such blatant disregard for the environment is unacceptable. Due diligence and strict adherence to the guidelines should be mandatory while giving or refusing the go-ahead to projects impacting our ecosystem.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/editorials/green-go-ahead-363012
21-01-2022||Even as the third Covid-19 wave surges in India||Delay in Covid relief||This was the third time in less than two months that the court pulled up the states for delay in disbursing ex-gratia assistance to the families of those who lost their lives to Covid-19. On December 6, the apex court had admonished several states for their lackadaisical approach, chiding the West Bengal counsel thus: ‘Only if we compel you to work will you work!’ On December 13, the court had censured the states for not giving adequate publicity to a website created for the purpose of relief distribution.Over three-and-a-half months have passed since the top court approved an amount of Rs 50,000 each for the kin of Covid-19 victims. At that time, the court had directed that payments must be made within 30 days of the date of application. However, as Wednesday’s court proceedings show, the pace of disbursal of money to the affected families is slow and the process is beset with discrepancies that need to be immediately resolved. The Bench also spoke of around 10,000 children who lost both their parents, asking the states to ‘reach out’ to them. It is hoped that with recurring arm-twisting, the states would do what they should do without bidding. Unfortunately, this matter has become a case study of why judicial activism becomes a necessity in many cases.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/editorials/delay-in-covid-relief-363011
