22-01-2022||As the Central Government contends with a ‘shortage’ of All India Services (AIS) officers in its ministries||Tussle over officers||The proposed changes have set the Central Government on a collision course with the state governments, especially the ones ruled by non-BJP parties. The states contend that it is their right to post officers as per their requirements, and that administration and policy implementation would be affected by an annual, compulsory deputation of officers to the Centre. West Bengal CM Mamata Banerjee has argued that the proposed amendments are against the ‘spirit of cooperative federalism’. Kerala’s law minister has said his government would oppose the amendments if they ‘infringed on the cardinal principle of federalism’, while reports from Maharashtra say the government would contest the changes.Forcing these changes on the states would be against the spirit of federalism. For AIS officers to discharge their duties to the best of their abilities, they must be free of the fear of compulsory posting away from, say, a development project or a politically sensitive case over which the Centre and State might be clashing. In the past, when the Central and state governments have differed over postings of officers, the will of the states has been mostly tolerated. In true democratic spirit, the Centre must devise other means to meet the shortfall of officers, rather than forcibly taking them away from the states.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/editorials/tussle-over-officers-363311
22-01-2022||Two years after the pandemic broke out||Living with the virus||What these approaches have in common is a forceful argument: the fear and paranoia surrounding Covid-19 have to go. We have had enough disruptions — making the already battered economy suffer even more is nothing but a recipe for disaster. It’s an indisputable fact that while the cases are soaring, hospitalisations and deaths are not rising at the same rate, thanks to wide coverage of vaccination in many countries and the Omicron variant’s lesser severity.Is India ready to bite the bullet and adopt the new Covid playbook? The Maharashtra Government has taken the lead by announcing the reopening of schools for physical classes from January 24. The Centre has highlighted that unlike the destructive second wave, the current surge is not getting out of hand due to comprehensive vaccination. This trend should make the Central and state authorities confident of the robustness of their pandemic response and not destroy livelihoods, come what may.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/editorials/living-with-the-virus-363310
