26-01-2022||THE pandemic has thrown the school system out of gear across the country and there seems to be no end to the ordeal of the young students||Opening schools||In normal circumstances, such a resounding encore for education would warrant celebratory reactions, but Covid-19 is a different beast. Having to choose between the safe health of students and their education is a tough ask. Opinions on whether or not to open schools remain divided, despite surveys and field reports indicating how learning levels have been impacted because of schools being shut. Reading and numeracy skills have taken a big hit, especially among students in primary classes and in rural areas.Immunisation for those above 15 commenced on January 3 and discussions around reopening now centre around speeding up inoculation in this age group. The aim is to vaccinate all the eligible teenagers in due course. A wait-and-watch policy is a prudent choice, for now, as the number of Covid-positive cases sees a gradual decline. There is no denying the loss suffered by children, but well-being is a crucial aspect of life. Opening schools and conduct of offline classes and examinations should be the way forward once the immediate threat reaches a low threshold level, as it did after the devastating second wave.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/editorials/opening-schools-364430
26-01-2022||NO one should be surprised by the claim made by former Zimbabwe captain Brendan Taylor that an Indian businessman tried to lure him into the murky world of match-fixing in 2019. In a detailed statement he posted on social media on Monday||Cricket match-fixing & India||It’s no secret that though betting and gambling are illegal in India, our country is the epicentre of cricket’s illegal betting enterprise. It’s estimated that illegal bets worth over $200 million are placed on every One-day International match played by the Indian team. Taylor comes from a weak team, and his statement reads like the plot of a crime thriller, but the methods used by illegal betting syndicates and corruptors have often been dramatic in the past — for they are willing to go to any length to rope in a player and get him involved in match-fixing. The one clear mistake he made was in reporting the matter to the International Cricket Council after a four-month delay.This case, and cases of match-fixing and spot-fixing in India, must lead to serious introspection and dialogue among officials, players and lawmakers. The Justice Lodha Committee had recommended in 2018 that betting on sport be legalised in the country. Curiously, online gaming and betting are thriving in India because the law is vague and ambiguous about them. The Karnataka High Court ruled last week that match-fixing is not a crime under existing Indian law. Indian lawmakers and legal fraternity must seriously consider the idea of legalising betting and criminalising match-fixing in the country, as the Law Commission of India suggested in 2018.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/editorials/cricket-match-fixing-india-364428
