01-01-2021||India||CDSCO panel recommends grant of permission for restricted emergency use of Oxford Covid-19 vaccine||An expert panel on Covid-19 of the Central Drugs Standard Control Organisation (CDSCO) on Friday recommended grant of permission for restricted emergency use of Oxford Covid-19 vaccine Covishield in India, subject to certain regulatory provisions, official sources said. As for Bharat Biotech, the Subject Expert Committee (SEC) on Covid-19 of the CDSCO asked the firm to expedite volunteer recruitment for the ongoing clinical trial and said it may conduct interim efficacy analysis for further consideration of restricted emergency use approval for its vaccine Covaxin, they stated. The SEC, which earlier had sought additional safety, immunogenicity and efficacy data from SII and Bharat Biotech, deliberated on their applications seeking emergency use authorisation (EUA) for their shots on Wednesday, and met again on Friday to review the matter. While granting emergency use approval for the Oxford Covid-19 vaccine, the panel imposed certain regulatory provisions, including that the shot is indicated for active immunisation in individuals of 18 years or more to prevent the disease and that it should be administered intramuscularly in two doses at an interval of 4 to 6 weeks. Further, the SII should submit safety, efficacy and immunogenicity data from the ongoing clinical trials in the country and across the globe for review at the earliest. Also, the Pune-based firm should submit the safety data including the data on adverse event following immunisation (AEFI) and adverse event of special interest (AESI) with due analysis every 15 days for the first two months and monthly thereafter till the completion of the ongoing clinical trial in the country. The Pune-based Serum Institute of India (SII), the world's largest vaccine manufacturer, has tied up with AstraZeneca to manufacture Covishield. While considering Bharat Biotech's application, the SEC noted that the ongoing clinical trial is a large one with 25,800 subjects of which 22,000 have been enrolled, including subjects with comorbid conditions, which has demonstrated safety till date but efficacy is yet to be demonstrated. "After detailed deliberation, the committee recommended that the firm should try to expedite the recruitment and may perform interim efficacy analysis for further consideration of restricted emergency use approval," an official source said. Pfizer's application was not deliberated, sources said. The UK's Medicines and Healthcare products Regulatory Agency (MHRA) on Wednesday had approved the Covid-19 vaccine developed by scientists at Oxford University and produced by AstraZeneca for human use. "In terms of safety, Covishield was well tolerated with respect to solicited adverse events...majority of solicited reactions were mild in severity and resolved without any sequelae. "Therefore, Covishield is safe and can be used effectively for prevention of Covid-19 in the targeted population. Thus, the benefit to risk ratio strongly supports the widespread use of Covishield," the EUA application signed by Prakash Kumar Singh, Additional Director, Government and Regulatory Affairs at Serum Institute of India (SII), had stated. SII had applied to the Drugs Controller General of India (DCGI) for EUA for Oxford Covid-19 vaccine on December 6, while the Hyderabad-based Bharat Biotech had sought the nod for its indigenously developed Covaxin on December 7. Pfizer had applied for regulatory approval for its vaccine on December 4. PTI||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-446
01-01-2021||India||Government set to launch Alexa-like chatbot||In a move to develop itself technologically, the government on Friday invited bids to build a voice assistant or chatbot application similar to  Amazon's Alexa or Google Assistant to deliver e-governance services to the public. The artificial intelligence-based chat platform is expected to converse with the public in multiple languages, analyse sentiments and intent, collect and analyse data to give personalised experience to users. The National E-Governance Division of the Ministry of Electronics and IT has invited proposals to build the conversational platform that can be deployed on the UMANG platform, which hosts various apps that provide government services to citizens. “The platform should be able to provide assistance with general tasks, including but not limited to availing services of government and available on the UMANG platform such as registration, login, reset password, department service relation information, event, (and) new launch...etc,” the request on the proposal document reads. The chatbot should be able to turn speech into a textual input and turn text into speech. “Platforms should also have other deep learning capabilities, which can be used by platforms for discovery and recommendation of eligible schemes and services to the users of bots/applications,” it adds. “Users should be recommended best-fit schemes and services available in government domain based on his/her profile,” the document says. The term of the project will be four years from the date it goes live. NeGD has fixed January 12 for pre-bid conference and January 25 for the last date of bid submission. Bids will open on January 27, evaluation will be done by February 5 and work order is scheduled for the second week of February, according to the document.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-446
01-01-2021||India||India to resume flight operations to UK from Jan. 8||Flights between India and the United Kingdom are set to resume from January 8, Civil Aviation Minister Hardeep Singh Puri said on Friday, adding that only 30 of them will operate per week for now. The arrangement will continue till January 23, Puri added. Indian and UK carriers will each be operating 15 flights per week during the aforementioned period to and from Delhi, Mumbai, Bengaluru and Hyderabad only, he said. Until December, over 60 passenger flights were operating between the two countries before the UK detected the emergence of a mutant strain of the coronavirus, which is supposed to be more infectious. Thereafter, the aviation ministry suspended all passenger flights connecting the two countries from December 23 onwards. Puri had announced on Wednesday that passenger flights between the UK and India would remain suspended till January 7 and they will resume in a "strictly regulated" manner thereafter. The earlier suspension period was from December 23 to December 31. “It has been decided that flights between India and UK will resume from 8 Jan 2021,” Puri tweeted on Friday. “Operations till 23 Jan will be restricted to 15 flights per week each for carriers of the two countries to & from Delhi, Mumbai, Bengaluru & Hyderabad only,” he added. The Health Ministry had announced on Tuesday that samples of all international passengers who arrived in India from December 9-22 and tested positive for COVID-19 will be subjected to genome sequencing, which helps in understanding how the new virus variant spreads and evolves. The presence of the new UK variant of the virus has already been reported by Denmark, Netherlands, Australia, Italy, Sweden, France, Spain, Switzerland, Germany, Canada, Japan, Lebanon and Singapore. Scheduled international passenger flights continue to remain suspended in the country since March 23 due to the pandemic. However, airlines have been permitted to operate special international flights under the Vande Bharat Mission since May this year and under the bilateral air bubble pacts since July. India has formed air bubble pacts with 24 countries, including the UK.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-446
01-01-2021||India||Farmers vow to step up stir if govt doesn’t agree to key demands||Farmers’ unions threatened to step up their stir in Haryana on Friday if the government did not agree to their primary demands of repealing the three new farm laws and a guaranteed MSP for crops in the January 4 talks while the Union agriculture minister  Narendra Singh Tomar maintained he was hopeful of a “positive outcome” at Monday’s scheduled discussions. Addressing a press conference at the Singhu border protest site, farmer leaders warned of multiple actions if their main demands were not met. They said that only five per cent of the issues raised by them had so far been discussed in meetings with the government. "If the January 4 meeting with the government fails to end the deadlock, we will announce dates for shutting all malls, petrol pumps in Haryana," farmer leader Vikas told reporters. Farmers protesting at Shahjahanpur on the Haryana-Rajasthan border would also move towards the national capital, Swaraj India leader Yogendra Yadav said. Another leader Yudhveer Singh said that a tractor march would be held on January 6 if no concrete decision was arrived at in the next round of talks. After the sixth round of formal negotiations on Wednesday, the government and farm unions reached some common ground to resolve protesting farmers' concerns over rise in power tariff and penalties for stubble burning, but the two sides remained deadlocked over the main contentious issues of the repeal of three farm laws and a legal guarantee for MSP. On Friday, agriculture minister Tomar said he was hopeful of a “positive outcome” on January 4, but refrained from predicting whether the seventh round of talks would  be the last one, saying he was not an astrologer. Speaking to PTI, the minister said that the last meeting held on December 30, 2020, happened in a cordial atmosphere and there was a possibility of positive results in the interest of farmers and of the country's farm sector at the next meeting. On farmer unions sticking to their demand for the repeal of the three farm laws and rejecting the government's proposal to suggest alternatives, Tomar said: "We will see." Asked whether he expected the January 4 meeting to be the last one, the minister said: "I cannot say for sure now. I am not an astrologer. I am hopeful that whatever decision would be arrived at (in the meeting) will be in the interest of the country and of the farmers. (Ekdam to abhi kuch kah nahi sakta. Bavishyavakta to main hoon nahi. Lekin mujhe asha hai ki jo bhi faisla hoga, desh ke aur kisan ke hit mein hoga).” After the last talks between three union ministers and a 41-member representative group of the thousands protesting on Delhi borders, Tomar had said at least 50 per cent resolution had been reached with mutual agreement on two out of four items on the agenda and discussions would continue on the remaining two on January 4 at 2 PM. Some common ground was reached on two demands -- decriminalisation of stubble burning and continuation of power subsidies -- but no breakthrough has been reached so far on the two main demands of the protesting farmers -- repeal of the three farm laws and legal guarantee of MSP procurement system. Protesting farmer unions have, however, upped the ante ahead of the meeting by threatening to intensify their agitation if the government did not agree to their main demands for the repeal of the laws and a legal guarantee to MSP. In a statement, the All India Kisan Sangharsh Coordination Committee (AIKSCC) said, "Farmers have one demand, that is, repeal of three laws. ...Acceptance of two minor issues is a cover of rigidness on repeal." The agitation by thousands of farmers, mainly from Punjab, Haryana and Western Uttar Pradesh has been on across Delhi’s borders for over a month now. The government has presented these laws as major agriculture reforms aimed at helping farmers and increasing their income, but the protesting unions fear that the new legislations have left them at the mercy of big corporates by weakening the MSP and mandi systems.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-446
01-01-2021||India||Farmers stay put at Delhi's border despite bitter cold||Thousands of farmers stayed put at their protest venues near Delhi's border on Friday, braving a severe chill as the mercury dipped to 1.1 degrees Celsius on the New Year's Day, the lowest in 15 years, as talks with the government made little headway. The government and the farm unions had reached some common ground on Wednesday to resolve the protesting farmers' concerns over rising in power tariff and penalties for stubble burning, but the two sides remained deadlocked over the main contentious issues of the repeal of three farm laws and a legal guarantee for MSP. After the sixth round of negotiations between three union ministers and a 41-member representative group of thousands of farmers protesting on Delhi borders, Agriculture Minister Narendra Singh Tomar had said at least 50 per cent resolution has been reached with mutual agreement on two out of four items on the agenda and discussions would continue on the remaining two on January 4. Security remained tight at the national capital's borders with hundreds of personnel deployed at Singhu, Ghazipur and Tikri border points, where the farmers have been camping for more than a month now. The protests have also led to traffic congestions, forcing the police to divert vehicular movement. Taking to Twitter on Friday, the Delhi Traffic Police alerted commuters about the routes that remained closed owing to the agitation and suggested them to take alternative roads. "Tikri, Dhansa Borders are closed for any Traffic Movement. Jhatikara Borders is open only for LMV (Cars/ Light Motor Vehicles), two-wheelers and pedestrian movement," it tweeted. "The Chilla and Ghazipur Borders are closed for traffic coming from Noida & Ghaziabad to Delhi because of farmer protests. Please take alternate route for coming to Delhi via Anand Vihar, DND, Apsara, Bhopra & Loni Borders. "Singhu, Auchandi, Piau Maniyari, Saboli & Mangesh borders closed. Please take alternate route via Lampur Safiabad, Palla & Singhu school toll tax borders.Traffic has been diverted from Mukarba and GTK road. Please avoid Outer Ring Road, GTK Road & NH-44," it said in a series of tweets. "Available Open Borders to Haryana are Jharoda (Only Single Carriageway/Road), Daurala, Kapashera, Badusarai, Rajokri NH-8, Bijwasan/Bajghera, Palam Vihar and Dundahera Borders," the Delhi Traffic Police said in another tweet. Enacted in September, the three farm laws have been projected by the central government as major reforms in the agriculture sector that will remove the middleman and allow farmers to sell their products anywhere in the country. However, the protesting farmers have expressed apprehension that the new laws would pave the way for eliminating the safety cushion of MSP and do away with the mandi system, leaving them at the mercy of big corporates. The government has repeatedly asserted that the MSP and mandi systems will stay and has accused the Opposition of misleading the farmers.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-446
01-01-2021||India||Govt allows import/export of Covid vaccine without any value limitation||The government has allowed import and export of Covid-19 vaccines without any value limitation, in order to ensure speedy clearance and distribution. The Central Board of Indirect Taxes and Customs (CBIC) has amended the regulations to facilitate the import/export of Covid-19 vaccines through courier, at locations where the Express Cargo Clearance System (ECCS) is operational. "Imports of and exports of vaccines in relation to Covid-19 has been allowed without any value limitation," said the amended Courier Imports and Exports (Electronic Declaration and Processing) Amendment Regulations, 2020. The CBIC said that Covid-19 has posed unprecedented challenges to Customs and other administrations the world over and efficient clearance and distribution of vaccines would be a critical requirement in the collective fight against the pandemic. "The challenges in doing so is heightened by the fact that the vaccines need to be stored and transported under controlled temperatures and there are multiple stakeholders involved in this process. This necessitates putting in place efficient cross-border procedures for speedy evacuation of the vaccines," the CBIC said. The regulation further states that since the vaccines will be imported in durable containers equipped with the requisite temperature monitoring and tracking devices, the export of the durable container including accessories thereof, imported in relation to Covid-19 vaccines has also been permitted. "Importers may be advised to indicate the unique identifier of the container and the accessories during import in the Courier Bill of Entry (CBE-V) and also at the time of re-export in the Courier Shipping Bill (CSB IV) for facilitating clearance," it added. The CBIC, in a letter to field offices, said since multiple stakeholders will be involved in the process of clearance of the vaccines, effective coordination among the stakeholders would be necessary. It also asked for setting up of a task force, headed by a Joint/ Additional Commissioner of Customs rank officer and comprising relevant stakeholders, for a coordinated approach for efficient clearance of vaccines relating to Covid-19. AMRG & Associates Senior Partner Rajat Mohan said global pharmaceutical companies are in advanced stages of bulk deployment of Covid-19 vaccines. "Eyeing global logistics and custom clearance challenges, the government has made some changes in Courier Imports and Exports Regulations, which includes permission to import and export of COVID-19 vaccines without any value limitation," Mohan added.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-446
01-01-2021||India||India welcomes 2021 with renewed hope||||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-446
01-01-2021||India||New Covid cases below 30,000 for 19th consecutive day||The daily new coronavirus infections in India remained below 30,000 for the 19th consecutive day taking the Covid-19 caseload to 1,02,86,709, while the number of people who have recuperated from the disease surged to 98.83 lakh, according to the Union Health Ministry data updated on Friday. A total of 20,035 new infections were reported in a day, while the death toll increased to 1,48,994 with 256 new fatalities, the data updated at 8 am showed. The number of people who have recuperated from the disease surged to 98,83,461 pushing the national recovery rate to 96.08 per cent, while the Covid-19 case fatality rate stands at 1.45 per cent. The Covid-19 active caseload remained below 3 lakh for the 11th consecutive day. There are 2,54,254 active cases of coronavirus infection in the country which comprises 2.47 per cent of the total caseload, the data stated. India's COVID-19 tally had crossed the 20-lakh mark on August 7, 30 lakh on August 23, 40 lakh on September 5 and 50 lakh on September 16. It went past 60 lakh on September 28, 70 lakh on October 11, crossed 80 lakh on October 29, 90 lakh on November 20 and surpassed the one-crore mark on December 19. According to the ICMR, 17,31,11,694 samples have been tested up to December 31 with 10,62,420 samples being tested on Thursday. The 256 new fatalities include 58 from Maharashtra, 30 from Kerala, 29 from West Bengal and 21 from Chhattisgarh. A total of 1,48,994 deaths have been reported so far in the country including 49,521 from Maharashtra followed by 12,122 from Tamil Nadu, 12,090 from Karnataka, 10,536 from Delhi, 9,712 from West Bengal, 8,364 from Uttar Pradesh, 7,108from Andhra Pradesh and 5,341 from Punjab. The health ministry stressed that more than 70 per cent of the deaths occurred due to comorbidities. "Our figures are being reconciled with the Indian Council of Medical Research," the ministry said on its website, adding that state-wise distribution of figures is subject to further verification and reconciliation.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-446
01-01-2021||India||Delhi's minimum temperature dips to 1.1 degree Celsius, the lowest in 15 years||A severe cold wave swept Delhi on New Year's Day as the mercury plummeted to 1.1 degrees Celsius, the lowest in 15 years, and "very dense" fog lowered visibility to "zero" metres, affecting traffic movement. On January 8, 2006, the city had recorded a minimum of 0.2 degree Celsius. The lowest minimum temperature recorded in January last year was 2.4 degrees Celsius, the India Meteorological Department (IMD) said. Kuldeep Srivastava, the head of the IMD's regional forecasting centre, said "very dense" fog lowered visibility to "zero" metres at Safdarjung and Palam at 6 am. According to the IMD, "very dense" fog is when visibility is between 0 and 50 metres. In case of "dense" fog, visibility is between 51 and 200 metres, "moderate" 201 and 500 metres, and "shallow" 501 and 1,000 metres. The Safdarjung Observatory, which provides representative data for the city, recorded a minimum of 1.1 degrees Celsius, the lowest in January in 14 years. Delhi recorded a minimum of 3.3 degrees Celsius on Thursday. At 15.2 degrees Celsius, the city recorded the season's lowest maximum temperature on December 18. Srivastava said the minimum temperature will start rising under the influence of an "intense" western disturbance which will affect northwest India from January 2 to January 6. The minimum temperature is predicted to rise to 8 degrees Celsius by January 4-5. Light rain is also expected in the national capital under the influence of the western disturbance from January 3 to January 5. The western disturbance will lead to moderate snowfall in the western Himalayan region, the IMD said. In the plains, the IMD declares a cold wave if the minimum temperature dips to 4 degrees Celsius. A severe cold wave is when the minimum is 2 degrees Celsius or less. A cold wave is also declared when the minimum temperature is 10 degrees Celsius or below and is 4.5 notches less than normal. A "severe" cold wave is when the minimum temperature dips to two degrees Celsius or the departure is more than 6.4 degrees. The average minimum temperature in Delhi in December was the second-lowest in 15 years. Data released by the IMD on Thursday showed that the mean minimum temperature (MMT) this December was 7.1 degrees Celsius. It was 7.6 degrees Celsius last year.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-446
01-01-2021||India||Farmers protest: Raghu Rai covers Dakha Singhu and Tikri Kalan blockade||Celebrated photojournalist Raghu Rai spent a better part of last week covering the farmers’ blockade at the Dakha Singhu and Tikri Kalan borders between Delhi and Haryana. Despite the enhanced coronavirus risk at the age of 78, Rai told The Telegraph, he could not keep himself from covering this “new awakening” spurred by the Punjab peasantry’s resistance to three farm laws. Rai, revered for his coverage of the Bangladesh Liberation War of 1971, the repression that preceded the Emergency of 1975 and the aftermath of the 1984 Bhopal gas tragedy, said he rued the defamation of the protesting farmers. “The government should see what is happening in its own truth and space,” Rai said. “When you go there with a political mind, your eyes are coloured and you can’t see the truth,” he added. “So the government  should deal with it in honesty and directly rather than politicians making up their own stories about their (farmers’) loyalties or funding, and the unnecessary politicisation of the protests...,” Rai added. Some Union ministers have given credence to the barrage of unsubstantiated online allegations against the farmers. A segment of the media has been speculating about the influence of Maoists and the “tukde tukde gang” on the protests. Haryana’s BJP chief minister, Manohar Lal Khattar, has linked the protesters to Khalistani separatists. Prime Minister Narendra Modi and others have alleged the agitation is backed by Opposition parties  and does therefore not count as a genuine farmers’ movement. Rai said: “The government should send someone to directly speak to them (farmers) and not blame the Opposition. Why will the Opposition not take this up as a cause?” “That is the purpose of the Opposition, of newspapers and magazines — to report honestly and talk about it.... This may not get resolved if the BJP begins to blame them with untruths.” The farmers have blockaded some of Delhi’s borders with Haryana and Uttar Pradesh, as well as a highway to Delhi on the Rajasthan-Haryana border, for more than a month now. Rai said the agitation was greater in scale than the Mahendra Tikait-led six-day sit-in near Delhi’s Boat Club in 1988 against the impoverishment of sugarcane farmers, or the weeks of protest in Delhi against corruption across several legs in 2011. “My understanding was that in the 30 years of globalisation we had lost that identity and culture, because our way of living and fashion changed. We ceased to be the people we were. Our identity was spoiled,” the Padmashree awardee said. “But at these protest sites, it amazes me that our ancient culture, warmth and hospitality are kept alive by them and offered to anyone who turns up from anywhere. No questions asked. But they are not fond of the media because they think the media has let them down more than the government by misrepresenting them.” He added: “It’s more of a celebration. It is not morose. There is joy that ‘We are here to stay, to make a difference’.... Also, not only are there langars here but also kirtans, readings of the Guru Granth Sahib, Sikh discourses. It’s not just a protest (but) also an experience of their cultural and religious ethos.” Rai sees a new unity between Sikhs and others in a city where they suffered the worst killings after the assassination of then Prime Minister Indira Gandhi by her Sikh guards in 1984. “Sikhs, Muslims and Jats (Hindus) are protesting together today. Jats (traditionally) smoke hookahs. (I saw) eight Jats sitting together sharing a hookah in Covid times, and Sikhs sitting just next to them, and they are not objecting, which means they accept you culturally as you are.” Tobacco is taboo for most Sikhs. “I have not witnessed such a prolonged and very simply organised rural protest in my career.... They talk about demonetisation, GST, and say they did not raise their voice. They talk about the CAA (Citizenship Amendment Act) and say, ‘Who knows, you may start doing it to us’,” Rai said. “They are digging up everything negative. It’s not just about the prices of their products, it’s everything now. In six years it was becoming too heavy for anybody to take all of these changes.” Rai added: “I’m not shooting for anybody. But how can I stay away when there is a new awakening in the people, which is very important for a nation.... My family gets very upset (about him going into crowds during the pandemic), but after 55 years as a photojournalist documenting the visual history of this country, it is essential for me to see, understand and connect to what is going on.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-446
01-01-2021||India||Vaccinator dry run in state capitals tomorrow||Medical officers and other health staff tasked with vaccinating people against Covid-19 will on Saturday conduct a “dry run” in state capitals across India to bolster preparedness and identify the challenges the planned immunisation campaign might encounter. The Union health ministry said on Thursday that the dry run — designed to test all the major steps in the vaccination process except inviting beneficiaries and actual vaccination — will be conducted in at least three sites in each state capital. The medical officers designated for the exercise in each capital will identify 25 healthcare workers as mock beneficiaries at each site and upload their details into Co-Win, an application software designed for the Covid-19 vaccination campaign. Some states have decided to include districts located in difficult terrain with poor logistical support, while Kerala and Maharashtra have announced plans to schedule the dry run in several additional cities along with their capitals. The health ministry has asked the states to ensure enough space, logistical arrangements, Internet connectivity and electricity and ensure that each site has a “three-room set-up” with a separate entry and exit. The dry run will also equip the state and Union territory administrations in the management of the vaccine supply, storage and logistics, including the maintenance of low-temperature storage. Around 96,000 vaccinators have been trained to administer the vaccines. A key focus during the dry run will be on managing any possible adverse events after the immunisation. Medical experts have underlined that during mass immunisation campaigns, a few recipients can experience adverse events, including potentially serious allergic reactions such as an anaphylactic shock. The operational guidelines for the vaccination campaign require that medical officers at each site ensure the availability of anaphylactic kits with adrenaline injections that would need to be administered to any recipient who experiences this allergic reaction. The dry run will also provide an opportunity to health staff to implement infection-control measures at the vaccination sites to prevent them turning into sources of the infection. Andhra Pradesh, Assam, Gujarat and Punjab had conducted dry runs at five sites each earlier this week. The health ministry has said that no major issues were observed during those dry runs. A national expert group on Covid-19 vaccines has recommended that healthcare workers, frontline workers, people aged above 50, and those below 50 with underlying chronic health disorders be prioritised for the vaccination. The group has estimated that around 300 million people from these four groups would need to be vaccinated – 10 million healthcare workers, 20 million frontline workers and 270 million people from the other two categories. A regulatory expert panel examining applications for emergency-use authorisation of Covid-19 vaccines from three companies has called a meeting on Friday. Health experts tracking the vaccine development efforts believe the AstraZeneca-Oxford vaccine, manufactured in India by the Pune-based Serum Institute, is likely to be the first Covid-19 vaccine approved for use in the country.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-447
01-01-2021||India||No option but repeal, say farmers ||The farmer unions on Thursday said there was no alternative to repeal of the new farm laws, responding to the government’s call to come up with an option short of complete withdrawal. Simultaneously, upset with the “repression” of farmers in BJP-ruled states, the All India Kisan Sangharsh Coordination Committee (AIKSCC) decided to counter this with a bigger mobilisation. “The Government of India’s appeal to the farmer leaders to suggest an alternative to repeal of the three acts is an impossibility as the central government itself has thrust these laws over the people undemocratically,” the AIKSCC’s working group said a day after 40 farmer unions and collectives had met government interlocutors. Further, it said, the government should stop being rigid and indulging in semantics as all the processes were in its hands. “Unless these (laws) are repealed there is no scope to discuss pro-farmer changes in mandis (wholesale markets) and farm processes for ensuring ‘doubling farmers income’,” the AIKSCC said in a statement while the mobilisation continued uninterrupted. New Year’s Eve brought in more people from Punjab, in particular, to the protest sites at Tikri and Singhu. Some of the protesters at Shahjahanpur on the Haryana-Rajasthan border forced their way past the barricades, prompting Haryana police to use teargas to hold them back. The AIKSCC said it stood vindicated by the manner in which 22 farmers in BJP-ruled Madhya Pradesh had been swindled out of Rs 2 crore when they “parted with 2,581 quintals of lentils to two traders of Harda” under the Farmers’ Produce Trading and Commerce (Promotion and Facilitation) Act, 2020, one of the laws the protesters want repealed. The two traders had approached the farmers directly citing the FPTC Act, offered them more than the mandi rate and paid by cheque, which bounced. The two traders are untraceable and a probe is on. Also, the AIKSCC said, the government’s assurance that the minimum support price regime would continue under the new farm laws was nothing but a “pretentious promise”. It said the Telangana government had stopped procuring paddy on the ground that the Centre had refused help and told it to stop procurement. “Senior central ministers’ emotional appeals for faith in Modi’s promises are now exposed for being hollow,” the AIKSCC said. Kavita Kurunganti of the Mahila Kisan Adhikar Manch told The Telegraph the government had painted itself into a corner by escalating the defence of the three laws, under the Prime Minister’s leadership, and through the parallel attempts to discredit the farmers’ movement. “By its own actions, the government has made it difficult for itself to concede (the farmers’ main demands). It’s not as if we have changed our goalposts — for the past six months the farmers have been demanding repeal,” she said. True to the feistiness of Punjab’s people, — farmers from the state are leading the protests that have now spread to other parts of India — the agitators have not let the government’s stubbornness or the bitter cold dampen their spirits on New Year’s Eve. Large numbers of people from back home have joined them with the slogan “Nava saal, kisana de naal (New Year with farmers)”. The agitators are looking forward to welcoming people from Delhi and nearby areas to the protest sites on Friday to share a meal at the langars of the “annadatas” (food providers or farmers).||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-447
01-01-2021||India||Kashmir: families question militant claim ||Police head constable Maqbool Ahmad Ganai lost his son and constable Irfan Ahmad Lone his brother in Wednesday’s purported gunfight in Srinagar, but a question both policemen are asking is how their kin went on to become militants, procure weapons, reach Srinagar and plan an attack in a matter of a few hours. The army on Wednesday said they had killed three militants — Aijaz Ahmad, Zubair Ahmad and Athar Mushtaq — in an overnight operation on the outskirts of Srinagar in Hokersar. The killings have triggered a political storm after their families claimed the three were innocent and killed in a staged gunfight. They are not listed as militants in police records. Aijaz, 21, and Zubair, 24, belonged to police families. Athar, the youngest of the three and a Class XI student, was the only son of his businessman father. Aijaz and Athar, who lived in Pulwama, knew each other but their families said they did not know Shopian resident Zubair or his family. While Aijaz’s father Maqbool is a head constable, Zubair’s two elder brothers, including Irfan, are in the police, one a constable and another a mason. The families questioned the security forces’ claim and said it did not have a leg to stand on. “My son left home at 1pm on Tuesday for Pulwama Degree College in connection with his final-year exams, which is to start on January 8. He was to apply for university after that. Around 2.30pm, he was seen by eyewitnesses in company of Athar at a tea shop in the town (Pulwama),” Aijaz’s father Maqbool told The Telegraph. “The encounter started at 5pm. How can it happen that they got weapons from somewhere, passed 50 nakas (checkpoints) to reach Srinagar and were not stopped anywhere? All this so fast? What was the army doing all this while?” Zubair’s brother Irfan had strikingly a similar question. “My brother was in the shuttering business. He left home like usual and in the evening when he did not return, we called him but his mobile phone was switched off. Some acquaintances told us they saw him near the bus stand (at Shopian) around 2-2.30 during the day,” the police constable said. “Ask anybody, how is it possible that in the next two hours, he became a militant, got training to use weapons and reached the place (of the alleged gunfight in Srinagar 70km away)?” Irfan asked. The families said they were shocked when the police called them up directly or through indirect means to inform them that their children were militants and had been killed in a gunfight. “I was wondering how it could happen but when I reached the police control room in Srinagar yesterday (Wednesday), I found three bodies lying on stretchers. My son’s body was third in the row. I was devastated,” head constable Maqbool said. Maqbool said what pained him more was that his son had been on 35 days’ bed rest on doctor’s advice following a surgery. “On Sundays, I would accompany him to the doctor for follow-up. He left home for the first time on his own on Tuesday,” Maqbool said. The three bodies were buried in far-off Sonamarg, as part of a new strategy to deny families the bodies of alleged militants, lest it attract crowds and give new recruits to militancy. Director-general of police Dilbag Singh on Thursday said he had no reason to dispute the army’s claim that the three youths were militants, but said they would still investigate the matter. He said families were at times not aware of the involvement of their wards in militant activities. “It is not important that every militant is listed with the police. When a person leaves his home to join (militancy), he doesn’t tell his parents,” Singh said. The army maintains that a joint operation involving men from different forces was launched at 5.30pm on Tuesday, leading to the death of three militants on Wednesday morning. A police statement on Wednesday evening, however, said the cordon-and-search operation was conducted by 2 Rashtriya Rifles, which was fired upon and thereafter a police component and a CRPF quick action team rushed to the spot. No top police officer was present at the media conference on Wednesday to give details of the purported encounter. It was addressed by counter-insurgency Kilo Force Major General H.S. Sahi. Usually, the DGP or IGP addresses such conferences. “Although the three killed terrorists in the encounter were not mentioned in our list of terrorists, yet two of them are hardcore associates of terrorists. Pertinently, one of the two is a relative of top HM (Hizb-ul-Mujahideen) commander Rayees Kachroo who was killed in 2017,” a spokesman said. The police did not say who among the three was Kachroo’s relative. The families of Aijaz and Zubair said they were not related to Kachroo or any other militant. This newspaper could not contact Athar’s relatives. The families are seeking justice and want the bodies of their kin to be returned to them so that they can give them a proper burial.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-447
01-01-2021||India||Kerala BJP lawmaker goes back and forth in supporting farm laws resolution||A special session of the Kerala Assembly on Thursday passed a resolution seeking withdrawal of the contentious new farm laws, with its lone BJP member first objecting, then expressing support for the move and finally opposing it again. As the ruling Left Democratic Front and the Opposition United Democratic Front supported the resolution, BJP member O. Rajagopal aired his objections in a brief statement in the House but did not press for a division. He, however, shortly called a news conference where, asked why he had not sought a vote in the House, he expressed support for the resolution. He also appeared to suggest that his objections to the resolution in the House owed to differences over technicalities. When the perplexed reporters asked again whether he indeed backed the resolution, Rajagopal responded: “I support the resolution.” He, however, went on to add a hint of ambiguity to his position by suggesting he might be supporting the resolution to honour the “democratic” traditions of “consensus” and “compromise”. Asked whether his support for the resolution wasn’t unnatural from a BJP member, Rajagopal said: “This is the opinion of the Kerala Assembly.” He added: “Some (in the BJP) may not like it. But in a democratic system we might have to reach a compromise on certain things. There is no need to be stubborn by sticking to a stand. We should move forward based on a consensus. But before reaching the consensus we can present our opinions before the people.” On whether his adopting such a position might not trigger problems with his party, he said: “I don’t see any issue in that.” He added: “I have differences with certain arguments (in the resolution), which I pointed out in the House.” Within hours, however, Rajagopal had changed his position through a media statement issued on Facebook. “The statements that I am opposed to the central government (on the farm laws) is against the facts,” he said. He seemed to blame his failure to call for a division in the House on the Speaker. “The Speaker did not ask who were supporting the resolution and who were opposing it. This is a violation of precedent,” he wrote. State BJP president K. Surendran said the party would examine what Rajagopal had said at the news conference. “I will respond after speaking to him,” he said. In the House, Rajagopal had said the farm bills were meant to “empower farmers to sell their produce anywhere by avoiding middlemen and commission agents”. “Those who oppose these laws are those who are opposed to farmers’ interests,” he had added. Exactly a year ago -- on December 31, 2019 -- the Kerala Assembly had sat to pass a resolution seeking withdrawal of the Citizenship (Amendment) Act. On Thursday, responding to suggestions from members, chief minister Pinarayi Vijayan told the House his government was examining the UDF demand for an ordinance to bypass the new farm laws. Agriculture, fairs and markets figure on the state list. The state government had endured several days of anxiety after governor Arif Mohammed Khan rejected an earlier recommendation to convene the Assembly on December 23. But the governor yielded when the government issued another recommendation. Vijayan said the governor had been reminded that he didn’t enjoy discretionary powers to stop an elected government from convening a session.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-447
01-01-2021||India||2,500 villagers seek rehabilitation in camps||About 2,500 people from two forest villages in upper Assam will be spending their New Year in makeshift camps near the Tinsukia DC’s office seeking permanent and proper rehabilitation. Men, women and children are from Laika village in Tinsukia district and Dodhia village in Dibrugarh district, about 6km apart, have been living in these tarpaulin camps  at Lezaihola Borguri near Tinsukia DC office, about 22km away from their homes, for the past ten days and have vowed to continue living and protesting this way till they are rehabilitated. This has been their stand a day after chief minister Sarbananda Sonowal met representatives of the villagers falling under the Dibru-Saikhowa National Park (DSNP) and directing the state forest department to “permanently rehabilitate” the affected families by January 31. “We welcome the chief minister’s initiative but it has not been able to reassure our people. In the past two, we were given written assurances but nothing happened. We have been demanding rehabilitation for the past 21 years. That is why even in this cold (9° Celsius) and away from home we will continue to protest peacefully till we are properly and permanently rehabilitated,” Minturaj Morang, 38, told The Telegraph from the protest site, about 490km east of Guwahati. Morang is one of the affected and chief convener of the Laika-Dodhia Rehabilitation Committee. He had also represented the affected in the talks with Sonowal on Wednesday. About 10,000 people from 1,480 families have been affected. They were settled in these two  villages dominated by the Mising community after the massive 1950 earthquake. But problem started when the forest reserves under which the two villages fall was declared Dibru-Saikhowa National Park in 1999. With access getting restricted and development coming to a standstill, they started seeking rehabilitation elsewhere through peaceful protests and representations. They were assured rehabilitation within eight months in July, 2017 by then forest minister Pramila Rani Brahma but nothing materialised. This year, too, their rehabilitation at Owguri under Digboi forest division fell through following reservation by a senior forest official on December 3 because the exercise will lead to the cutting of 8,000 trees, compelling the villagers to stage the indefinite protest on December 21 but they shifted to near the DC on December 22. “We cannot build anything permanent because we are inside a national park. Government schemes have stopped because of strict rules. The forest department should have rehabilitated us before declaring Dibru-Saikhowa a national park. Under the circumstances we have no option but to continue our protest so that the government fulfils its promise. We have fought all these years, with flood, with erosion and government indifference. We will struggle for a few more days,” he said. He also made it clear that their protest may appear similar to the farmers’ protest on the border of Delhi but it has not been inspired by it. “It was spontaneous, it was about our survival. We have been demanding rehabilitation for 21 years now,” Morung said. The 2,500-odd villagers have been divided into 16 groups so that it is easier to maintain smaller groups with food and accommodation. “Today the DC, SP, the local MLA visited us and inspected the camps for the first time. We also had a meeting with the DC and sought his help to maintain the camp because our people are going nowhere till our rehabilitation issue is settled,” Morung said. Besides setting a January 31 deadline to settle the villagers, Sonowal on Wednesday also formed a ten-member committee to look into the issue. He also asked the forest department to conduct a survey within a week so that rehabilitation process can be started promptly. The rehabilitation package would include drinking water, electricity, immediate medical support. The area of rehabilitation should not be flood-prone and erosion-prone, an official  statement said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-447
01-01-2021||India||Farmers' protest galvanises Modi-wary poor||If Prime Minister Narendra Modi has triggered a farmer revolt with his new farm laws, a general sense of frustration at his policies and failed promises has attracted a wider segment of the poor to the protests at Delhi’s borders. While the better-off farmers sitting on their tractor trolleys dissected the farm bills and the danger they posed, the landless labourers and daily wage earners gathered at the Delhi-Ghaziabad border with them complained of being duped with the promise of “achchhe din (good days)” six years ago. “Sirf dhokha (Nothing but fraud),” said an indignant Khyali Ram, who had come from Ramuwala Ganesh village in Moradabad, Uttar Pradesh, about Modi’s electoral rhetoric. “What kind of policies enable the rich to double and triple their incomes in a few years while generations of the poor struggle for survival?” he wondered. Balkar Singh, a younger man who had come from the same village, cut in to say: “He promised achchhe din, Rs 15 lakh in bank accounts and what not. He said farmers’ incomes would double.... “We have to sell paddy for Rs 1,100 against the MSP (minimum support price) of Rs 1,885. Our sugarcane dues are pending. Now he brings in laws that will ruin our lives; our land will be grabbed by corporate groups.” Rohtas Sharma, a landless labourer who too has come from Moradabad and sleeps in the same trolley with 20 others, complained: “Modi did nothing for us; our plight has worsened. I have been barely getting Rs 100 as a day’s wages. My children don’t go to school. There’s no teaching in government schools and the private schools seek Rs 2,000 for admission.” Rohtas, who is happy being at the agitation site because everything from toothpaste to food and warm clothes is free, has vowed not to go back unless the new farm laws are withdrawn. He knows little about the intricacies of these bills but realises that the farmers are genuinely upset. Asked whether he gets work under the rural job scheme MGNREGA at his village, he said: “Nobody gives us work. The MGNREGA is a fraud.” Farmer Dharampal, the banner on his trolley indicating a communist link, explained why. “Asardar logon ka kabja hai MGNREGA par (Influential people have captured the MGNREGA),” he said. “They get job cards issued for themselves and their lackeys, and the money gets transferred to their accounts without their having to do any work. I can say from experience that barely 20 per cent of MGNREGA work is genuine. Things have deteriorated in the last few years.” Balkar, asked whether he had received the latest instalment of Rs 2,000 under the Pradhan Mantri Kisan Samman Nidhi Yojana, said he had not. “I got nothing, not a single rupee. But I don’t need it. I own a tractor, have a pucca house, cattle and enough money to host a feast for the villagers on occasion. I can arrange for music too,” he said. “We had no problems as such, except schools and hospitals that the government should focus on. But the government is bringing in destructive laws.... We are not going away from here, come what may.” Dharampal, who is fiercely opposed to the new farm laws, went on to launch a political broadside against Modi. “Can you imagine statues worth thousands of crores being built in a country where children don’t have food and clothes? For how long will you rule by inciting passions, by fooling people on temples and nationalism?” he said. “The fire is lit now. The poor have woken up. Now the government will realise that the poor will no longer be happy with crumbs.” What if the movement were somehow quelled and the farmers had to return home unsuccessful? “There are other ways of protesting: sitting on the road is just one way. Haven’t you seen how the boycott call jolted (Reliance’s) Jio?” Dharampal said. “We, the people, hold the key in a democracy. The government’s lifeblood is in our hand. The flow will be interrupted whenever the farmers and workers unite. And you will see this time how the BJP and Modi get undone by us.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-447
01-01-2021||India||Odisha steps  to avert second Covid-19 wave||The fear of the second wave of Covid-19 continues to haunt the Odisha government even though the mutated strain of Sars Covid-2 has not been detected in UK returnees to the state. In order to ensure that Odisha does not lose its grip on Covid management, the Naveen Patnaik government has declared a ban on night celebrations this New Year eve. In order to strictly implement the ban the government has clamped night curfew across the state to avoid congregations and celebrations. “The night curfew will be imposed from 10pm tonight to 5am on Friday. All are requested to cooperate,” Special Relief Commissioner (SRC) P.K. Jena said. The administration announced that the 12th Century Shree Jagannath temple would remain closed on January 1 and January 2 to avoid congregations. The temple will be thrown open to the public on January 3. But those having Covid negative certificates only will be allowed to enter the shrine. On the other hand, commissioner of police Sudhansu Sarangi on Thursday announced to impose prohibitory orders under Section  144 of CrPc in the twin cities — Cuttack and Bhubaneswar to curb zero night celebrations. He urged the people not to venture out of their homes after 9pm. “Except for emergency requirements, those who are found to be roaming on the streets will be taken to task by the police,” warned the police commissioner. The Odisha government has asked it’s official to exchange greetings through virtual mode and not to gather to exchange new year’s greetings. However, cinema halls and theatres will reopen from January 1 with 50 per cent capacity. All these complexes have been closed since the outbreak of corona pandemic in March. Meanwhile, another 315 people tested Covid positive in the state in the last 24 hours. However, there was relief for the people of Odisha as the state government on Thursday announced that not a single person returning to the state from Britain has been found carrying the mutated strain of new variant of coronavirus. “The mutated strain of Sars Covid 2 has not been detected in any sample in the state,” said additional chief secretary and head of the health and family welfare department P.K. Mohapatra. As per the government officials, Odisha had sent six samples of UK returnees to Pune and Delhi for genome sequencing. However, the test report pointed out no presence of the mutated strain of new variant coronavirus. “We will be getting reports of the three more samples sent to the National Institute of Virology, Pune. It will be reaching to us soon,” the officials said. As many as 188 people have returned to the state from Britain. So far the state government officials have been able to trace 179 of these returnees and get them tested for Covid-19. Only seven have tested positive.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-447
01-01-2021||India||Delhi High Court stays eviction notice to Birju ||Delhi High Court has stayed the eviction notice issued by the Centre to Kathak exponent Pandit Birju Maharaj asking him to vacate the government accommodation allotted to him here. A vacation bench of Justice Vibhu Bakhru issued a notice and sought the Centre’s response on a plea by the Kathak artiste challenging the government’s decision of cancelling allotment of his accommodation and asking him to vacate by December 31. “In view of the above, the impugned notice dated October 9, 2020 is stayed till the next date of hearing,” the high court said in its order passed on Wednesday and made available on Thursday. The high court listed the matter for further hearing on January 22, 2021, before the roster bench concerned along with another similar petition by Padma Shri awardee Mohiniyattam dancer Bharati Shivaji, who was also served with an eviction notice. The court, in its order, noted that petitioner Birju Maharaj is a renowned Kathak artist and was allotted a government accommodation on account of his accomplishments and by virtue of the impugned notices, he has been communicated that the allotment stands cancelled and he has been asked to vacate the premises by December 31. Senior advocate Akhil Sibal, appearing for Birju Maharaj, submitted that similar notices were issued to other prominent personalities who were allotted government accommodations and are subject matter of petitions filed before this court. He also referred to a December 23 order passed by the high court in Bharati Shivaji’s case in which a similar eviction notice has been stayed. In October this year, 27 eminent personalities most in the age group of 50 to 90, including artists, dancers and musicians were sent notices by the ministry of housing and urban affairs, to vacate their government allotted accommodations across Delhi by December 31, “failing which eviction proceeding will be initiated as per Public Premises (Eviction of Unauthorised Occupants) Act”. Other prominent personalities who have been sent these notices are artist Jatin Das, Pandit Bhajan Sopori, Rita Ganguly, Dhrupad singer Ustad F. Wasifuddin Dagar, Kathak expert Geetanjali Lal and Kuchipudi dancer Guru Jayarama Rao.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-447
01-01-2021||India||Mob, cops clash near Taj Mahal over police inaction||A mob ransacked a police station, set over six vehicles on fire and fought a pitched battle with cops barely 1km from the Taj Mahal after the law-enforcers were accused of inaction over an accident death on Thursday. The angry residents damaged files and computers in the Taura police outpost in Agra and set ablaze over half a dozen vehicles, including four motorcycles, parked outside.   
Television cameras showed cops lathicharging the mob and hurling tear smoke canisters. Policemen were also seen beating photojournalists covering the incident. The protesters and the police hurled stones at each other. Satish Ganesh, the inspector-general of Agra, said: “It was an unfortunate incident. People angry over the death of a youth in a road accident turned violent. Our priority is to convince the people that the police will not spare the guilty.” “We are collecting CCTV footage to identify those who damaged public property. Action will be taken against them,” he added. A protester said a tractor-trolley had hit a local youth, Pawan Yadav, on Fatehabad Road. “Two policemen of Taura outpost came there on a motorcycle but turned away without saying anything even after seeing the youth lying in a pool of blood and the tractor-trolley standing a little distance away. This angered bystanders, who ran towards the tractor-trolley. The vehicle fell into a ditch while trying to get away and the driver fled. We took the injured to hospital, where he died within a few minutes,” the protester said, requesting anonymity. “The youth lay injured on the road for about 45 minutes and could have been saved had the police rushed him to hospital. We were confused at that time and couldn’t decide whether we should wait for the police or not,” he added.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-447
01-01-2021||India||Mulayam’s brother sees signs of secular alliance||Shivpal Yadav, the younger brother of Mulayam Singh Yadav who had warmed up to the BJP after his ouster from the Samajwadi Party, has said many “secular parties” have resolved this New Year to forge an alliance to defeat the BJP in the Uttar Pradesh elections in 2022. Shivpal, the president of the Pragatisheel Samajwadi Party (Lohia), told reporters in Lakhimpur Kheri on Wednesday evening: “The secular parties, which believe in the same ideology of social harmony, have already started coming together. The talk and the process is on to build a big alliance so that the BJP can be thrown out of power in the Assembly elections to be held in 2022.” Asaduddin Owaisi, Hyderabad MP and leader of the All India Majlis-e-Ittehadul Muslimeen (AIMIM), had met Shivpal and Om Prakash Rajbhar, the chief of the Suheldeo Bharatiya Samaj Party, in Lucknow separately on December 16. Later, Rajbhar, whose SBSP was a part of the Yogi Adityanath government till May 2019, had also met Shivpal and said: “The idea is to bring on one platform the smaller parties. Even the BJP is trying to woo the smaller parties. It was in this situation that we resolved to take the lead in forming an alliance of smaller, anti-BJP parties.” The SBSP has four MLAs in Uttar Pradesh and Shivpal is the only MLA from his party. Owaisi’s party has yet to win a seat in the state. Mohammed Ayub, president of the Peace Party, has also expressed his wish to be a part of the proposed alliance. “The idea is to consolidate our presence in the state’s politics and marginalise those who are doing divisive politics,” Ayub said. Shivpal said he was not averse to bringing outfits like the Samajwadi Party onto the proposed platform but added that all the smaller parties would remain independent entities. “Some bigger non-BJP parties including the SP want smaller parties to merge with them. The idea floated by some SP leaders of the Pragatisheel Samajwadi Party (Lohia)’s merger with their party is impractical. I have formed my party to sustain it and will continue to maintain its independent identity,” Shivpal said. “But the SP or any other big party can be a part of the alliance if it believes in secular politics. The talk for an alliance of the smaller parties is in the final stages and they all have the single aim of defeating the BJP,” he added. Shivpal’s nephew and Mulayam’s son, Akhilesh Yadav, removed Shivpal from the SP in 2017. Shivpal had then got close to the BJP. The Adityanath government had allotted him a palatial bungalow and provided him Z-category security in 2018, both of which he continues to enjoy.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-447
01-01-2021||India||CBSE exams in May-June, results set for July 15||The Central Board of Secondary Education (CBSE) will hold the examinations for Classes X and XII students in May-June, almost two months behind the usual schedule.
According to a notification issued by the CBSE, the board exams for Classes X and XII will begin on May 4. Education minister Ramesh Pokhriyal said the exams would be over on June 10 and the results declared by July 15. The practical, project and internal assessment segments will be held from March 1 and can continue till the theory papers are over. The CBSE said alternative ways of conducting practical exams would be explored this year in view of the pandemic. It, however, did not elaborate. Educationist Usha Ram said the idea of practical exams was to assess the learning outcome and competency of a student in a particular subject. “Apart from demonstrating practical experiments, the students can also be assessed through oral questioning and multiple answer-type questions. The CBSE can explore such possibilities too,” she said. More than 30 lakh students had appeared in the exams last year. This year, a similar number of students are expected to take the tests, a CBSE official said. Last year, the Class X exams had been held at 5,376 centres while the Class XII exams were held at 4,983 centres. This year, the number centres may increase three times because of adherence to Covid protocol. Some educationists and parents demanded that competitive exams like the JEE Advanced and the NEET be deferred. The JEE Advanced, held to select students for BTech courses in IITs, and the NEET, for MBBS and BDS courses, are usually held in May. The JEE Main, which is the national entrance test for admission to BTech courses in institutions other than IITs, will be held four times, once each in February, March, April and May. “I think the students preparing for competitive exams may face stress if the NEET and the JEE Advanced are conducted immediately after the board exams. They should get about a month’s time,” said Kiran Mehta, director (academics) of Mother Mary School in New Delhi. Ameeta Mullah Wattal, the principal of Springdales School, said students had not done any practical classes this year. The school could invite them in small batches now to attend practical classes so that they don’t face difficulty in taking the board’s practical exams. Students said they were happy with the deferred exam schedule. “Now, we will get four months to prepare. This was required. We have very less number of classes in the online mode. All the subjects have not been covered,” a student said. The CBSE has reduced the syllabus by 30 per cent for board exams. Ashok Agrawal, the president of the All India Parents’ Association (AIPA), said the syllabus should be pruned by 50 per cent. “There are lakhs of students who could not attend any class because of lack of digital devices. The board should reduce the syllabus by 50 per cent to ensure that poor students are not victimised,” Agrawal said. Ashok Pandey, the director of the Ahlcon Group of Schools, said state governments should allow the reopening of schools. “Interactions between students and teachers are very important. The next two-three months should be utilised for this purpose. This will help students prepare for the exams, he said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-448
