02-01-2021||India||Akhilesh says he doesn't trust ‘vaccine of the BJP’ ||As India comes closer to starting a massive vaccination drive across the country with two Covid-19 vaccines getting CDSCO emergency approval, Samajwadi Party president Akhilesh Yadav on Saturday said he will not take the jab. The former Uttar Pradesh chief minister termed the vaccines to be rolled out in the country as “vaccine of the BJP”, drawing sharp criticism from the saffron party, which said he insulted doctors and scientists. “How can I trust the vaccine, which will be used for vaccination by the BJP? We cannot get vaccinated by the BJP's vaccine,” he told reporters at Lucknow. He also said his party will come to power in the state after 2022 elections and everybody will get the vaccine free. His remarks prompted an instant rebuttal from BJP leader and Uttar Pradesh Deputy Chief Minister Keshav Prasad Maurya who termed the statement an “insult to the doctors and scientists of the country”. “Akhilesh Yadav does not have trust in the vaccine, and people of Uttar Pradesh do not have trust in Akhilesh Yadav. His raising questions on the vaccine is an insult to doctors and scientists of the country. He should tender an apology,” Maurya told reporters. A trial drill for distribution of Covid-19 vaccine began across the country on Saturday, officials said. The Centre had on Thursday stated that the exercise aims to test the linkages between planning and implementation, and identify challenges.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-444
02-01-2021||India||India clears Covaxin, ‘certain conditions’ follow||Covaxin, the anti-coronavirus vaccine developed indigenously by India’s Hyderabad-based Bharat Biotech, has received restricted emergency use permission, with certain conditions, from an expert panel of India's central drug authority on Saturday, sources said. Covaxin has been developed by the Hyderabad-based company in collaboration with the Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR). The Union Health Ministry on Saturday also confirmed that the Subject Expert Committee (SEC) of the Central Drugs Standard Control Organisation (CDSCO) has recommended granting permission to the Serum Institute of Institute (SII) for restricted emergency use of Covishield in India, subject to multiple regulatory conditionalities. “The SEC of CDSCO met on January 1 and 2 and made the recommendations for the consideration and final decision of the Drugs Controller General of India (DCGI),” the ministry said. The committee on Covid-19 on Saturday again deliberated on the emergency use authorisation (EUA) application of the Hyderabad-based pharmaceutical firm after it submitted additional data, facts and analysis subsequent to Friday's review meeting, a source said. The panel recommended “grant of permission for restricted use in emergency situation in public interest as an abundant precaution, in clinical trial mode, specially in the context of infection by mutant strains, to Bharat Biotech,” the health ministry said. According to sources, the committee, however, stated that the firm shall continue the ongoing phase 3 clinical trial and submit data emerging from the trial as and when available. The committee noted that the vaccine is an inactivated whole virion, coronavirus vaccine, having potential to target mutated coronavirus strains, a source said. The data generated so far demonstrates a strong immune response (both antibody as well as T cell) and in-vitro viral neutralisation. According to sources, the recommendations stated that the vaccine should be supplied along with a fact-sheet and separate leaflet for the guidance of the healthcare provider. Bharat Biotech had applied to the Drugs Controller General Of India (DCGI) seeking emergency use authorisation for its Covaxin on December 7. On Friday, the SEC had recommended granting permission for restricted emergency use of Oxford-AstraZeneca vaccine Covishield, being manufactured by the Serum Institute of India. India wants to start administering the vaccine soon, most likely by Wednesday, one source told Reuters on Friday. Pfizer has not presented all its data to the regulatory panel yet, an expert, who is not a panel member, told The Telegraph. “The home-grown vaccine has shown very promising immunogenicity data. It might be approved once some efficacy data comes in,” the expert had said on Friday. After detailed deliberations, the SEC has also recommended for grant of permission to Cadila Healthcare Ltd in Ahmedabad for conduct of phase-3 clinical trial protocol for its vaccine candidate.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-444
02-01-2021||India||Three crore frontline workers to get Covid vaccine for free, says Harsh Vardhan ||Union Health Minister Harsh Vardhan on Saturday said free vaccine would be provided in the first phase of inoculation to the most prioritised beneficiaries, including one crore healthcare and two crore frontline workers. He added that details of how 27 crore priority beneficiaries -- those above 50 years of age and those below it having comorbidities -- would be vaccinated until July were being finalised. Vardhan , who visited two mock vaccination sites in Delhi to review the drill, also appealed to people not to be misguided by rumours regarding safety and efficacy of the coronavirus vaccine, adding that there would be no compromise on any protocol before approving it. He added that details of how 27 crore priority beneficiaries -- those above 50 years of age and those below it having comorbidities -- would be vaccinated until July were being finalised. The minister dispelled doubts regarding the country's capability to undertake such a massive vaccination drive, describing how India had unparalleled experience in dealing with immunisation and run one of the largest such programs in the world. "It is as a result of our steadfastness and dedication that India was declared polio-free in 2014. Our rich learning from the earlier immunisation drives, including the polio vaccination campaign, is being used to guide our present countrywide COVID-19 vaccination campaign," he said. The Union minister first visited the GTB Hospital in Shahdara and later an urban primary health centre (UPHC) in Daryaganj, according to a Health Ministry statement. "I appeal to the people not to be misguided by rumours regarding safety and efficacy of COVID-19 vaccine," he said, dismissing such buzz on social media over its side effects. "We will not compromise on any protocol before approving a vaccine." The health minister underlined that vaccine hesitancy was an issue even when the country started polio immunisation drive, but "we must remember its success". He urged the media to exercise caution, behave "responsibly" and check all facts before publishing or broadcasting any reports, the ministry said. At the UPHC in Daryaganj, Vardhan reiterated that the Modi government was committed to ensuring the safety and well-being of all citizens. "I have ample personal experience from the polio eradication campaign of 1994 about how the people of the country placed their trust in the science of the vaccine rather than the falsehoods and canards being spread by some rumour-mongers," Vardhan told the media. On ensuring that the vaccine reaches the remotest corner, Vardhan said the country's cold chain infrastructure had been sufficiently upgraded to ensure last-mile delivery, and adequate supplies of syringes and other logistics had also been provided for. Expressing his satisfaction at the preparations at the GTB Hospital, Vardhan said the entire exercise of the vaccination process, including training of personnel, was being systematically taken forward. "Detailed guidelines have been issued to multiple stakeholders after extensive deliberations, paying attention to each and every minute aspect," he said. "Ahead of the actual vaccination drive, the Ministry of Health on Saturday conducted a nationwide mock drill at 285 session sites to test the end-to-end planned operations and the mechanism that has been set up to ensure smooth conduct of the COVID19 vaccination that is expected to begin soon," it said. Vardhan appreciated the tireless efforts being made by multiple stakeholders, including the central and state government officials who have worked proactively in the last few months to ensure the success of this humongous operation. He said the digital platform, Co-WIN, was the real game changer and would provide real-time information of vaccine stocks, their storage temperature and individualised tracking of beneficiaries of the COVID-19 vaccine. This unique platform will assist in automated session allocation for pre-registered beneficiaries, their verification and for generating a digital certificate upon successful completion of the vaccine schedule. More than 75 lakh beneficiaries have been registered on Co-WIN platform till date, he said. The minister said the entire operational planning and IT platform had been field-tested in four states -- Andhra Pradesh, Assam, Gujarat, Punjab -- and certain enhancements had been made in the system on the basis of feedback received. The dry run will end with review meetings at the district and state level to discuss the issues and challenges encountered during the exercise. States and Union territories have been requested to share with the Health Ministry the feedback, which will be analysed for ironing out any glitches in the final execution and refinement of the operational procedures.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-444
02-01-2021||India||Farmers to hold ‘Kisan Parade’ on Jan. 26 if demands not met||Protesting farmer unions on Saturday hardened their position even more and said that they will take out a tractor march towards Delhi on January 26, on Republic Day, if the government does not meet their demands. British Prime Minister Boris Johnson is scheduled to visit Delhi on the day as the chief guest of the Republic Day parade, which will be held at Rajpath. Addressing a press conference, farmer leader Darshan Pal Singh said their proposed parade will be called “Kisan Parade” and it will be held after the Republic Day parade. The next round of talks between the government and protesting farmer unions is scheduled to be held on January 4. On Friday, the unions had announced that they would have to take firm steps if the meeting fails to resolve the deadlock. Swaraj India chief Yogendra Yadav said that it is a “plain lie” that the Centre had accepted 50 per cent of their demands during the sixth round of talks. “We have got nothing on paper yet,” he said. After the sixth round of formal negotiations on Wednesday, the government and farm unions reached some common ground to resolve protesting farmers' concerns over rise in power tariff and penalties for stubble burning, but the two sides remained deadlocked over the main contentious issues of the repeal of three farm laws and a legal guarantee for minimum support price (MSP). Farmer leader Gurnam Singh Choduni said, “In our last meeting, we posed a question to the government that will you buy 23 crops on MSP. They said ‘no’. Then why are you misinforming the people of the country?” “So far, over 50 farmers have been martyred during our agitation”, he said. Braving the cold, thousands of farmers, mainly from Punjab and Haryana, are protesting at various borders of the national capital for more than a month against these three new laws.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-444
02-01-2021||India||Free Covid vaccine for people of Delhi, announces health minister||Delhi Health Minister Satyendar Jain on Saturday said Covid-19 vaccine will be provided to people in the national capital for free once it arrives, and asserted that the city government has made preparations for the vaccination drive. Interacting with reporters during his visit to a facility in Daryaganj as part of a dry run exercise held here to assess the preparations for the vaccine roll-out, Jain said the system "seems flawless" as of now. "I came to see the preparations as part of the dry run being done. Three sites have been selected for it GTB Hospital Shahdara, Urban Primary Health Centre, Daryaganj, and Venkateshwar Hospital, Dwarka," he said. All preparations are being done, and 1,000 vaccine centres will be set up across the city, the health minister said. When asked if the vaccine will be free of cost, Jain said, "Yes, and in Delhi, the treatment and medicines are given for free." Vaccination centres will either be hospitals or facilities linked to hospitals, he said. Asked what will happen if complications are noticed after vaccination, Jain said emergency rooms will be set up at the centres, and those getting the vaccine dose will be kept there under observation for half an hour. The minister said the Delhi government has so far made preparations to vaccinate one lakh people in a day. Social distancing will be maintained, and people will be brought to the centres in batches, he added. The Delhi government is fully prepared to receive, store and administer Covid-19 vaccine to 51 lakh priority category persons in the city in the first phase of vaccination, Jain said. These include healthcare workers, frontline workers, people aged above 50 and those below 50 years but with co-morbidities.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-444
02-01-2021||India||Sourav Ganguly rushed to hospital after suffering 'mild' cardiac arrest||BCCI president and former India skipper Sourav Ganguly was hospitalised on Saturday afternoon after he suffered a "mild" cardiac arrest but is "stable", an official of the hospital where he is undergoing treatment said. Ganguly, 48, is stable and doctors at the private Woodlands Hospital are considering whether he requires to undergo angioplasty. "He had a mild cardiac arrest but is stable now. He requires to undergo several tests. We are checking whether an angioplasty is required or not. We also need to find out whether Mr Ganguly requires stent insertion or not," Dr Saroj Mondal, who is treating the stylish former batsman, said. "Mr Ganguly tested negative for the COVID-19," he said, adding that the test was conducted before angioplasty was performed on him. He is currently admitted to the critical care unit (CCU) of the hospital. Ganguly complained of chest pain following a workout session on Friday evening and family members took him to the hospital this afternoon when the problem recurred. A team of five doctors has been constituted to supervise his treatment, hospital sources said. Bengal Chief Minister Mamata Banerjee expressed concern over Ganguly's hospitalisation. "Sad to hear that Sourav Ganguly suffered a mild cardiac arrest and has been admitted to hospital. Wishing him a speedy and full recovery. My thoughts and prayers are with him and his family," Banerjee tweeted. The development came at a time when speculations were rife about his joining politics ahead of the state assembly elections likely in April-May this year. According to political circles in the state, the former batting great could join the BJP, but Ganguly himself never made his intentions quite clear about taking the political plunge. Ganguly was officially entrusted with the task of heading Indian cricket in October 2019 at the BCCI's General Body meeting in Mumbai, ending a controversial 33-month reign of the Supreme Court-appointed Committee of Administrators (CoA). He became the BCCI's 39th president succeeding C K Khanna, who was the interim head of the Board since 2017. Ganguly's tenure was for nine months but he and Board secretary Jay Shah have continued nonetheless as the Supreme Court has still not ruled on the BCCI's plea seeking amendments to its new constitution, which put a cap on the age and tenure of office-bearers as recommended by the Lodha Committee. Ganguly had earlier held positions in the Cricket Association of Bengal. The former India captain began as joint secretary at the CAB in 2014. He was recently in Delhi to unveil Arun Jaitley's statue at the DDCA's cricket stadium.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-444
02-01-2021||India||Former home minister Buta Singh passes away||Former Union home minister Buta Singh, who remained in public service for a long time and served under four prime ministers, died at the AIIMS here on Saturday morning. He was 86. The senior Congress leader was in a coma since October last year when he was admitted to the All India Institute of Medical Sciences (AIIMS) after he suffered a brain haemorrhage. His family said Singh died around 7.10 am. He will be cremated at the Lodhi Road crematorium here later in the day. Singh was an eight-time former MP and also served as the governor of Bihar. President Ram Nath Kovind, Vice President M Venkaiah Naidu, Prime Minister Narendra Modi and former prime minister Manmohan Singh condoled his demise. "In the passing of Shri Buta Singh, the country has lost one of the longest-serving parliamentarians with rich administrative experience. He championed the cause of the oppressed and marginalized. Condolences to his family and supporters," Kovind said in a tweet. "Saddened to learn about the passing away of Shri Buta Singh Ji. He was an able administrator & parliamentarian. My heartfelt condolences to bereaved family members. Om Shanti!" Naidu wrote on Twitter. "Shri Buta Singh Ji was an experienced administrator and effective voice for the welfare of the poor as well as downtrodden. Saddened by his passing away. My condolences to his family and supporters," the prime minister wrote on the microblogging website. Defence Minister Rajnath Singh said, "Shri Buta Singh ji dedicated his life serving poor and downtrodden. He served the nation in several capacities. Pained by his demise. Condolences to his family and supporters. Om Shanti." Congress leader Rahul Gandhi said Singh devoted all his life in the service of the country. "In the demise of Sardar Buta Singh Ji, the country has lost a true public servant and a loyal leader. He devoted his entire life in the service of the country and the well-being of people, for which he will always be remembered. My condolences to his family members during this difficult time," the former Congress chief said in a tweet in Hindi. Bengal Chief Minister Mamata Banerjee, her Rajasthan counterpart Ashok Gehlot and Punjab counterpart Amarinder Singh also condoled Singh's demise. Born in Punjab's Jalandhar district on March 21, 1934, Singh was an eight-time former Lok Sabha MP. He represented the Jalore constituency in Rajasthan and was first elected to the Lower House of Parliament in 1962. Singh was earlier associated with the Shiromani Akali Dal (SAD), but later joined the Congress in the early 1960s. A prominent Dalit leader of the grand old party, he was the convenor of the All India Congress Committee's (AICC) Harijan cell in 1973-74, after which he became the AICC general secretary in 1978. Singh became the Union deputy minister, railways in 1974 and the Union deputy minister, commerce in 1976. In 1980, he became the Union minister of state, shipping and transport and was also given the portfolio of sports (independent charge) in 1982. In 1983, then prime minister Indira Gandhi elevated him as the cabinet minister for parliamentary affairs, sports and works and housing. In 1984, he was made the Union minister for agriculture and rural development and in 1986, the Union home minister in the Rajiv Gandhi cabinet. Under PV Narasimha Rao, Singh was the Union minister of civil supplies, consumer affairs and public distribution from 1995 to 1996. He was appointed the chairman of the National Commission for Scheduled Castes (NCSC) by Manmohan Singh in 2007. He held that post till 2010. Singh was instrumental in building and re-building many gurdwaras in the country and abroad, especially the Sri Akaal Takht, after Operation Blue Star in 1984. He was involved in the reconstruction of many gurdwaras in Delhi after the anti-Sikh riots of November 1984. Singh was involved in choosing the Congress's new poll symbol "hand" after the party split in 1978. He was very closely associated with Indira Gandhi during Operation Blue Star and as a minister, oversaw the reconstruction of the Golden Temple in Punjab's Amritsar following the Army operation. Singh was also the chairperson of the Asian Games organising committee when the competition was held in India in 1982. He courted controversies too. In 1998, as the communications minister, he was indicted in the JMM bribery case and had to resign. As the Bihar governor in 2005, his decision to recommend dissolution of the state Assembly was criticised by the Supreme Court and he later resigned. Singh is survived by a daughter and two sons.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-445
02-01-2021||India||Modi's approval ratings a testimony to his popularity as a leader, says Nadda||Noting that Prime Minister Narendra Modi's approval rating is the highest among world leaders in a survey conducted by a US data firm, BJP president J P Nadda on Saturday said this is a testimony to his able leadership and a matter of pride for all Indians. American firm Morning Consult, which regularly tracks approval ratings of world leaders, said over 75 per cent people approve of Modi while 20 per cent disapprove, putting his net approval rating at 55 per cent. This is higher than any other world leader the firm tracks. Referring to the survey, Nadda tweeted that Modi has yet again emerged as the most popular head of government for his efficient handling of various issues and management of the COVID-19 crisis. "PM @narendramodi ji's popularity not only rises unabated across all demographic groups & geographic regions of the country and he also gets a thumbs up globally for his dedication to his country. PM Modi ranks Number 1 among all global leaders in this (these) challenging times," he said. Ever since the Modi-led government came to power, people's trust in the government and the faith that the nation is progressing in the right direction has risen drastically, he added. "This rating is the testimony of his able leadership and hard work and is a thing of pride for all Indians," Nadda said. According to Morning Consult's survey, German Chancellor Angela Merkel's approval rating was 24 per cent while it was in the negative for UK Prime Minister Boris Johnson as more people disapprove of his work than those who approve.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-445
02-01-2021||India||Modi's three I's to build Atmanirbhar Bharat||Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Saturday said innovation, integrity and inclusion have emerged as the key mantras in the field of management which can help the country achieve the goal of 'Atmanirbhar Bharat'. Laying the foundation stone for the permanent campus of IIM-Sambalpur through video conference, the prime minister said the goal of a self-reliant India will be achieved with the help of collaborative, innovative and transformative concepts in management. Noting that technology is reducing distances between regions, Modi said India has brought speedy reforms in the digital connectivity sector in order to cope with changes taking places all over the world. "Technology management is as important as human management," he said, adding the country has been able to build substantial capacity over the last decade which was evident during the Covid-19 crisis. Emphasising that the young generation should take along those lagging behind to ensure inclusive growth, Modi said local products will have global reach with the help of new management concepts and techniques. "Today's start-ups in India are tomorrow's Multinational Corporations," he said, and asked young managers to align their career goals to the aspirations of the country. The prime minister said IIM Sambalpur will go a long way in giving Odisha a new identity in the field of management education apart from creating tremendous opportunities for the handloom and other sectors in the region.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-445
02-01-2021||India||Light rain helps Delhi's minimum temperature soar up to 7 degrees Celsius||Parts of the national capital received light rain on Saturday morning, while the minimum temperature rose to 7 degrees Celsius due to a cloud cover over the city, the India Meteorological Department (IMD) said. Clouds trap some of the outgoing infrared radiation and radiate it back downward, warming the ground. "Moderate" fog lowered visibility to 201 metres at Safdarjung. According to the IMD, "very dense" fog is when visibility is between 0 and 50 metres. In case of "dense" fog, visibility is between 51 and 200 metres, "moderate" 201 and 500 metres, and "shallow" 501 and 1,000 metres. "As per our forecast, the impact of a western disturbance has begun over northwest India, including Delhi. Palam has reported 0.4 mm rainfall. Ridge, Ayanagar and Lodi Road recorded traces of rainfall," the IMD said. The minimum temperature in Delhi is likely to rise to 9 degrees Celsius in the next two to three days under the influence of the western disturbance, it predicted. On Friday, the mercury plummeted to 1.1 degrees Celsius, the lowest in 15 years for January, and "very dense" fog lowered visibility to "zero" metres. On January 8, 2006, the city had recorded a minimum of 0.2 degree Celsius. The all-time record is minus 0.6 degree Celsius registered in January 1935. The lowest minimum temperature recorded in January last year was 2.4 degrees Celsius, the IMD said. Kuldeep Srivastava, the head of the IMD's regional forecasting centre, said the minimum temperature has started rising under the influence of the "intense" western disturbance, which will affect northwest India till January 6. Light rain is expected in Delhi over the next two to three days, he added.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-445
02-01-2021||India||India's Covid caseload breaches 1.3 crore mark with less than 20,000 cases||The number of fresh Covid-19 cases was recorded below 20,000 in India on Saturday, taking the country's caseload to 1,03,05,788, while the number of people who have recuperated from the disease crossed 99 lakh, according to the health ministry. A total of 19,079 people tested positive for the coronavirus infection in a day, while the death toll due to the disease climbed to 1,49,218 in the country with 224 new fatalities, the ministry's data updated at 8 am showed. The number of people who have recuperated from the disease surged to 99,06,387, pushing the national recovery rate to 96.12 per cent, while the COVID-19 case fatality rate stood at 1.45 per cent. The number of active COVID-19 cases remained below three lakh for the 12th consecutive day. There are 2,50,183 active coronavirus cases in the country, which accounts for 2.43 per cent of the total caseload, the data stated. India's COVID-19 tally had crossed the 20-lakh mark on August 7, 30 lakh on August 23, 40 lakh on September 5 and 50 lakh on September 16. It went past 60 lakh on September 28, 70 lakh on October 11, 80 lakh on October 29, 90 lakh on November 20 and the one-crore mark on December 19. According to the Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR), 17,39,41,658 samples were tested for COVID-19 in the country till January 1, including 8,29,964 on Friday. The 224 new fatalities include 59 from Maharashtra, 26 from West Bengal, 23 from Kerala and 21 from Delhi. Of the 1,49,218 COVID-19 deaths reported in the country so far, Maharashtra has accounted for the highest of 49,580, followed by Tamil Nadu (12,135), Karnataka (12,096), Delhi (10,557), West Bengal (9,738), Uttar Pradesh (8,379), Andhra Pradesh (7,108) and Punjab (5,349). The health ministry stressed that more than 70 per cent of the deaths occurred due to comorbidities. "Our figures are being reconciled with the Indian Council of Medical Research," the ministry said on its website, adding that a state-wise distribution of the figures is subject to further verification and reconciliation.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-445
02-01-2021||India||Farmers protest: mass movement and struggle forges new bonds||A few elderly Sikh men, two boys, a handful of women and a teenage girl — it looked like an extended family. But what unfolded during a casual conversation with them was a story of human bonding for a cause that has powered the farmers’ agitation at Delhi’s borders with Punjab, Haryana and Uttar Pradesh. These people were not related. While the Sikh men had come from Moradabad in Uttar Pradesh to protest against the farm laws, the women were Delhi residents who visited the site every morning to cook for the protesters. The girl had been left there by her father a week ago to do “sewa” (service) for a day, a stint she willingly extended indefinitely. “These women come in a tempo every day around 7 in the morning,” Gurdayal Singh, one of the elderly protesters at the Ghazipur border between Delhi and Uttar Pradesh, told The Telegraph. “They offered to help cook at the langar on the first day and started coming daily. They cook prasad (food at langars is called prasad) till noon. In the evening, they cook dinner and leave for home.” He added: “This little girl has been with us for a week. Now the bonding is so strong that they are like our sisters, our child.” The farmers’ movement bears testimony to people’s capacity for altruism, for willingly taking up challenges to help strangers without any benefit to themselves. While masses of women have arrived from various states to help sustain the agitation, local people are lending a hand in their hundreds. As the conversation wore on, sacks filled with peas and carrots were dropped from a slowly moving mini-truck in front of the protesters’ camp. Someone pointed towards the plentiful stocks, telling the man on the mini-truck there was no need for more. “Use these as well,” he replied nonchalantly. Asked who was sending the stuff, Gurdayal said: “We don’t know. It’s all managed by the gurdwaras. That’s the Sikh culture. We have enough rice, wheat and pulses while milk and vegetables are supplied daily.” Nobody is charging for anything. While the farmers had come with enough rations to last months, the perishable stuff is coming free and plentiful. You get tea, biscuits and breakfast in the morning. Whoever arrives at lunchtime  is fed roti, rice, dal, vegetables and even kheer. Snacks in the evening, followed by dinner completes the langars’ day. Curious visitors, activists, police and paramilitary personnel, and the neighbourhood poor are also being fed with affection and respect. Eatables apart, many stores are providing the daily necessities free to the protesters. “We have quilts, mufflers, woollen socks, mattresses, warm innerwear, toothpaste, toothbrush, soaps, everything. We don’t charge for anything,” said Sukhjeewan Singh, a volunteer at a store. “We also set up washing machines in the morning for washing clothes.” Asked where these goods came from, he expressed ignorance saying he was just a “sewadar” (one who serves) but speculated that the gurdwara management committees could be behind the supplies. Water heaters too are available, apart from medicines and doctors. There’s a blood donation camp where youths can be seen happily lying down to give blood. The protest site has two huge women-only cabins that can accommodate over 500. Bonfires, hookahs and endless rounds of tea keep the agitators warm. Busy young volunteers, boys and girls, keep running around, looking after things under the guidance of the control room. What the large-scale arrangements reflect is the protesters’ willingness to stay on for the long haul. It’s virtually impossible to find anyone confessing to fatigue or a desire to return home. Even an 80-year-old merrily proclaimed: “Mar jayenge, peechhe nahin hatenge (We will die but not back off).” A slogan often heard over the loudspeakers goes: “Kisan ekta karta hai, marne se nahin darta hai (The farmers stand united, unafraid to die).” A group of elders from Lakhimpur recalled the revolutionary hero Bhagat Singh and said the farmers’ movement too was a freedom struggle. Asked whether the government’s obduracy and one of Delhi’s harshest winters might not succeed in breaking their resolve, one of them said: “We haven’t come here for entertainment. Cold and heat can’t deter us: farmers live with nature.” He added: “The Prime Minister has inflicted this wound on us. Agitations are organised to make demands; this is the first agitation to tell the government, ‘Please don’t give us what we don’t want’. We have come here to teach Modi a lesson. He either withdraws these laws or we destroy his politics.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-445
02-01-2021||India||Oxford vaccine cleared in India, wait for others||India’s drug regulatory expert panel on Friday recommended the emergency use of the AstraZeneca-Oxford vaccine against Covid-19, clearing the decks for an unprecedented government campaign to initially vaccinate around 300 million people. However, the panel held back its decisions on two other vaccines under assessment, an expert who is not a panel member told The Telegraph. Apart from the AstraZeneca-Oxford vaccine, manufactured in India by the Pune-based Serum Institute, the panel was examining emergency-use authorisation for a home-grown vaccine from the Hyderabad-based Bharat Biotech and a vaccine from America’s Pfizer. The Union health ministry had till late Friday night not revealed the outcomes of the panel’s meeting, but two sources told Reuters the panel had approved the AstraZeneca-Oxford vaccine. India wants to start administering the vaccine soon, most likely by Wednesday, one of the sources told the news agency. Health officials declined comment on the panel’s decisions or the specific conditions under which emergency use had been granted. A health ministry spokesperson said the panel would make “recommendations” to the drugs controller-general of India, which would take the “final decision”. The expert who spoke to this newspaper said the nod to the AstraZeneca-Oxford vaccine had been widely expected and that delayed decisions on the other two vaccines would not be surprising. Pfizer has not presented all its data to the regulatory panel yet and the data from Bharat Biotech was not considered sufficient for a decision, the expert said. For the AstraZeneca-Oxford vaccine, India has relied on efficacy data generated entirely in foreign clinical trials. However, the Bharat Biotech vaccine is currently undergoing efficacy trials across India. “The home-grown vaccine has shown very promising immunogenicity data. It might be approved once some efficacy data comes in,” the expert said. A researcher associated with the development of the home-grown vaccine said the encouraging immunogenicity data and the need to rapidly roll out vaccines to address the pandemic were among “considerations” driving the emergency-use authorisation application. The UK and Argentina have already authorised the AstraZeneca-Oxford vaccine for urgent public use. The Serum Institute has indicated it has stockpiled around 50 million doses and could increase production capacity to around 100 million doses per month by February or March. The health ministry has not yet unveiled a timetable for the vaccine rollout.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-445
02-01-2021||India||Third year exit lock in DU four-year undergraduate course||A Delhi University committee is considering an undergraduate programme that seeks to deny exit option at the end of three years despite such a duration being the widely followed practice and the National Education Policy making provision for a bachelor’s degree after a three-year course. The committee, headed by Prof. Vivek Suneja and tasked with suggesting the structure of four-year undergraduate courses, has circulated a module under which students will get a certificate at the end of the first year, a diploma at the end of the second and a bachelor with research degree at the end of the fourth. Students will be allowed to leave at the end of the first, second and fourth years, but not the third. There is also a proposal to reduce four core papers in the major subject and add courses on hobby, ethics and skills in the four-year programme. The new National Education Policy (NEP) promises multiple exit and entry options in undergraduate courses. Students quitting at the end of three years are to receive a bachelor’s degree. A section of teachers expressed concern over the denial of exit option at the end of the third year and also questioned the “poor” design of the course. Currently, BA, BCom and BSc courses in universities have a duration of three years. DU Academic Council member Seema Das, who is also a member of the Suneja committee, has submitted a note expressing several concerns. “The academic rigor of the three-year Bachelor Programme would be considerably diluted with the deletion of four core/major papers. Reduction in core papers would not allow a graduating student to master the respective subject,” Das has written. “There is a strong probability that a few disciplines would be preferred over others in choice of minor subjects/papers by the students. This may lead to the elimination of a few subjects and redundancy of teachers”, she added. Former Executive Council member and treasurer of the Delhi University Teachers’ Association (DUTA), Abha Dev Habib, said the proposed exit points after the first and second years would allow students to leave with a false notion of achievement. “The course structure leading to these exit points shows that the coursework cannot add to their abilities, knowledge and worth. The first few semesters are largely concerning basic courses, where students won’t attain any real academic rigour or skills,” Habib said. “Students will have to spend one extra year for the same degree with no value addition at a much higher cost,” Habib said. According to her, an extra year of stay in the national capital for an outstation student would entail a cost of Rs 1 lakh to Rs 2 lakh.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-445
02-01-2021||India||India expresses concern over 'repeated instances' of attacks on minorities in Pakistan||India has conveyed to Islamabad its serious concern over the “repeated instances” of attacks on minorities in Pakistan after a mob set afire a temple in the Karak district of Khyber-Pakhtunkhwa on Wednesday. According to sources, the external affairs ministry conveyed to Pakistan through its mission in New Delhi that India expects the federal government to investigate the matter and take strict action against those responsible for the demolition of the temple, pointing out that this is not the first time such an attack has taken place. India, the sources said, has also asked for the investigation report to be shared with the ministry. “Our message reiterated that the government of Pakistan, in discharge of its responsibilities, is expected to look after the safety, security and well-being of its minority communities, including protection of their religious rights and cultural heritage,” a source said. India registering its concern with Pakistan over the temple demolition comes at a time when the Narendra Modi government has been silent on an attack on a mosque in Madhya Pradesh on the same day as the Karak incident. An attempt was made to damage a mosque at Dorana village in Mandsaur district on Wednesday allegedly by VHP and Bajrang Dal activists during a fund-collection drive for the Ayodhya Ram temple. With both incidents captured on camera, it brought into sharp relief the similarities in the condition of the minorities in the two countries. Commenting on the development, Michael Kugelman, deputy director of the Asia Programme at the Washington-based Wilson Centre, tweeted: “Sadly fitting that religious extremists attacked places of worship on the same day in both India and Pakistan. A tragic commentary on the extent of religious intolerance, both in terms of its intensity and its geographic reach.” Arrests have been made in both cases. Given its track record of not only targeting minorities but also sectarian fight with the smaller denominations of Islam under attack, Pakistan’s federal minister for religious affairs and the Supreme Court were quick to react, condemning the temple arson and posting the matter for an early hearing, respectively.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-445
02-01-2021||India||Protesting farmers remind govt about its duty on hunger||Farmer union leaders on Friday warned the government that it should not take their agitation lightly and think that it can be handled like the Shaheen Bagh protest against the new citizenship regime. The warning came a day after the younger generation of protesters gathered at Shahjahanpur on the Rajasthan-Haryana border and pushed their way past barricades in variance with the Sanyukta Kisan Morcha (SKM) call to stay put at that point till further orders. Cautioning that the younger lot of farmers are getting agitated by the government’s delaying tactics, Yudhvir Singh of the Bharatiya Kisan Union (UP) said: “Our farmers cannot be trifled with. Don’t think that you will be able to end out movement like you did in the case of Shaheen Bagh.” Singh was articulating a concern that the collective leadership of the movement might not be able to rein in the youngsters if the Narendra Modi dispensation continued to test their patience. Given that the government has not moved an inch on the farmers’ two main demands pertaining to repealing the three new farm laws and enacting a legislation guaranteeing minimum support price for all crops, the SKM has drawn up a plan to carry forward the agitation right up to January 23. While the blockade of Delhi will continue, parallel efforts will be made in the coming weeks to mobilise opinion across the country with a “Desh Jagriti Abhiyan”. As the days pass, what the government has conceded on Thursday by accepting the farmers’ demands regarding exemption from the stubble burning fine and on the Electricity (Amendment) Bill is being regarded as small change. The SKM has decided that if there is no progress on their two main demands at the next meeting on Monday, the twice-rescheduled tractor rally on the KMP Expressway (Western Peripheral Expressway) will be taken out on Wednesday. Although the farmer unions had anticipated that the government would project the two concessions as meeting them halfway, the All India Kisan Sangharsh Coordination Committee (AIKSCC) said the narrative being built by the “pro-corporate intellectuals’’ would not convince the farming community. Further, the committee sought to point out that the farm laws do not only affect the farmers but also the larger issue of food procurement as the limits on hoarding have been lifted, allowing private players to corner the food stock. Questioning the Niti Aayog’s arguments against food procurement as India has a surplus of food stock, the AIKSCC pointed out that the country also has the maximum and rising number of hungry people. Referring to the Hunger Index, the committee said India’s score had fallen from 38.8 in 2000 to 27.2 in 2020. “The government of India is duty-bound to provide food security and these three Acts will erode the government’s food procurement and undermine the public distribution system, replace food production with commercial crops, and give freedom to the corporates to purchase, hoard and blackmarket food,” the AIKSCC said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-445
02-01-2021||India||No problem with Nitish joining us: Rabri Devi||Rabri Devi, RJD chief Lalu Prasad’s wife and former Bihar chief minister, said on Friday that the Opposition Grand Alliance would bring Nitish Kumar into its fold “if needed”, at a time the JDU is feeling increasingly hemmed in by the BJP that has now become the senior partner in the ruling alliance. “Our party leaders will discuss and take a decision on bringing Nitish to the Grand Alliance. He will be brought into our fold, if needed. I have no objection to him being included in our alliance,” RJD leader Rabri told reporters on the occasion of her birthday at her 10 Circular Road residence. Although several RJD leaders have been claiming that Nitish should join hands with the Grand Alliance and that 17 of his JDU MLAs were preparing to switch sides, this is the first time someone from the RJD’s first family has broached the topic. Some RJD leaders had also suggested that Nitish should take a shot at the Prime Minister’s chair and leave Bihar’s chief ministership to Tejashwi Prasad Yadav, Lalu’s younger son. Rabri’s comments come at a time discomfort is palpable in the JDU after the BJP welcomed six of the seven MLAs of the JDU in Arunachal Pradesh into the party. The JDU, which has cried betrayal and treachery, sees a threat in Bihar too with a more powerful BJP asserting itself. The JDU, with just 43 seats in the 243-member Assembly, has for the first time become the junior partner of the BJP, with 74 MLAs, since forging an alliance in Bihar in 2005. The RJD with 75 seats is the single largest party in the House. The NDA, which has 125 seats, has a thin majority with the Opposition breathing down its neck with 110 seats. Rabri’s comments also indicate a softening of Lalu Prasad’s family’s stand on Nitish, who rode to power in 2015 in alliance with the RJD but broke ranks two years later to return to the NDA and form a fresh government. It led to much bitterness between the RJD and the JDU. RJD sources said Lalu, currently incarcerated in Ranchi after conviction in fodder scam cases, has instructed his party leaders to go easy on Nitish while criticising the NDA government in the state. The sources said the Arunachal developments had left the JDU worried about its future. Rabri referred to such concerns on Friday, warning that the “BJP could break the JDU in Bihar also”. She said the “immoral alliance of the JDU and the BJP has turned Bihar into a battlefield where the two parties are going to fight a war for supremacy.” The former chief minister criticised Nitish over his recent visits to different corners of the state to inspect archaeological sites and development work, saying law and order has gone for a toss. Rabri referred to the state government’s transfer of 29 IAS and 38 IPS officers late on Thursday night, saying this had been done at the behest of the BJP and it indicated that Nitish’s writ no longer ran in Bihar.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-446
02-01-2021||India||‘Grave’ prod to China on 39 sailors||India on Friday called for “urgent, practical and time-bound” assistance to 39 stranded Indian sailors on board two ships in Chinese waters considering the “grave humanitarian situation” developing in the vessels. External affairs ministry spokesperson Anurag Srivastava said Indian bulk cargo vessel MV Jag Anand had been on anchorage near Jingtang port in Hebei province of China since June 13 and it had 23 Indian sailors. Another vessel, MV Anastasia, with 16 Indian nationals as its crew is on anchorage near Caofeidian port in China since September 20, he said. Srivastava said both vessels had been awaiting discharge of their cargo and there was growing stress on the crew members on account of the long delay. “Given this and our concern for the increasingly difficult conditions for our crew members, these two cases are being pursued vigorously,” he said. Srivastava said the Indian embassy in Beijing continued to remain in close touch with the Chinese authorities in Beijing, Hebei and Tianjin, adding that the MEA was also following up on the matter. “We have noted the statements of the Chinese side, expressing their willingness to extend their assistance,” Srivastava said. PTI||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-446
02-01-2021||India|| Indian Army appoints officer to head human rights cell||The Indian Army has appointed a major general-rank officer to head its newly created human rights cell. Major General Gautam Chauhan has taken charge as the first additional director-general, human rights, and will work under the army’s Vice-Chief Lieutenant General S.K. Saini. The cell will look into human rights issues and ensure that the army complies with human rights conventions. It will be the nodal point to examine reports on human rights violations by the army. Last August, defence minister Rajnath Singh had given the approval to set up the cell at the army headquarters, the first such initiative in the armed forces, to look into rights violations as part of the restructuring and reorganising of the army. As per the mandate, an IPS officer of SSP/SP rank will be taken on deputation to enhance transparency and ensure investigative expertise is available to the cell. “The human rights cell will put in place a more stringent mechanism to look into human rights violations,” said an army officer. The IPS officer in the cell will assist in investigations and legalities and will also facilitate coordination with other organisations and the Union home ministry, if required. “Charges of human rights violations often come up since the army is deployed in sensitive conflict zones. The human rights cell will investigate such charges in a professional manner and will also act as an internal watchdog,” the army officer said. Over the years, the army has been accused of human rights violations in Jammu and Kashmir and the Northeast. Major General Chauhan had earlier served as brigadier, operations logistics, at the headquarters of the Integrated Defence Staff.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-446
02-01-2021||India||A. Anandavally: Sweeper to chief of Kerala block panchayat||A woman who wielded the broom at a block panchayat office for a decade has now been chosen by the Kerala CPM to head it as its president. A. Anandavally, 46, had since 2011 been employed as a sweeper at the agriculture office of the Pathanapuram block panchayat in Kollam district. It had been a surprise enough for the Class X passout when the CPM requested — and persuaded — her to contest the recent panchayat elections, after husband and house painter Mohanan had declined. “It was a bigger surprise when our party appointed me president. All of this has been a surprise since neither my husband nor I was inclined to even contest the elections,” Anandavally told The Telegraph on New Year’s Day. She said that three days after her appointment, she was still receiving congratulatory calls. Anandavally is one of several women the CPM has picked to head local bodies, including the country’s two youngest, aged 21 — Thiruvananthapuram mayor Arya Rajendran and Aruvappulam village panchayat president (Pathanamthitta) Reshma Mariam Roy. Anandavally is keenly aware of the challenges ahead, and quietly confident about meeting them. “I was only familiar with cleaning the rooms and carrying tea and snacks for the officials. It will take me some time to adjust to the new reality and responsibility,” she said. She hopes to help the six villages under her purview by using the lessons about life, poverty and struggle she has learnt and the contacts she has built in her decades as ayah, paddy field worker and sweeper. “There are many like me who need better amenities, higher education for their children and modern healthcare. I can relate to their problems,” she said. Poverty and lack of guidance had prompted Anandavally to drop out of school after clearing her Class X exams.“There was no one to guide me on what to do next. Nor did we have the financial resources,” the eldest of three siblings said on her decision to work at a young age. “I even worked in paddy fields to make ends meet,” she said. She worked at a government pre-primary school in her village, Thalavoor, from 1995 to 1997, doubling as ayah and informal teacher, at a monthly salary of Rs 300. She did several odd jobs after that till she got a sweeper’s job at the Thalavoor village panchayat office in 2007 for a daily wage of Rs 70. Both Anandavally and Mohanan come from families of CPM workers and used to be regulars at party events and election campaigns. In 2011, the CPM shifted her to the nearby block panchayat office, where she began on a monthly salary of Rs 2,000. Her last drawn salary was Rs 6,000. “People in my village wanted either my husband or me to contest the panchayat elections in 2015, but neither of us was ready at the time,” she said. This December, she defeated her Congress rival by 654 votes. Anandavally has now quit the sweeper’s job. She said her new salary would be about Rs 10,000 but was not sure. “At the moment I don’t know much about what the functions of a block panchayat president are. But I’m confident about learning quickly with the help of the officials and the local people, who have known me since decades,” said the mother of two sons, one of them enrolled in college and the other in Class XII. Her aged mother had expressed apprehensions about how Anandavally would cope in her new job with her limited education and lack of experience. “I told my mother that I have support from all quarters. Now that I have been entrusted with this job, I don’t want to disappoint my party or the people,” Anandavally said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-446
02-01-2021||India||Naveen writes to PM demanding an international airport at Puri||Odisha chief minister Naveen Patnaik on Friday wrote to Prime Minister Narendra Modi demanding an international airport at Puri. He said that the new airport should be named Sri Jagannath International Airport. At present Odisha has only one international airport, Biju Patnaik airport in Bhubaneswar. Naveen urged Modi to direct the ministry of civil aviation to take up the proposed airport as a priority project. Naveen also promised to provide land to the Centre for the project. Referring to the tourism potential of this pilgrim town, the chief minister said “The Sun Temple of Konark, a Unesco heritage site is just 35km away from Puri and along with the adjacent Ramchandi and Chandrabhaga beaches provides a unique experience to national and international tourists.” Naveen also maintained that, “Puri is organically linked to Ramsar sites — Chilika Lake (India’s first Ramsar site and Unesco world heritage site) on one side and Bhitarkanika National park on the other side. Both these locations have huge potential for international eco–tourism. Puri beach has been recently transformed into a Blue flag beach with world–class experience for the tourists. Most of the historic Buddhist heritage sites like Dhauli, Ratnagiri etc with travel time within three hours from Puri, attract Buddhist pilgrims from across the world.” The chief minister referred to the importance of Puri town in Hindu religion and said that it is one among the four dhams of Hindu Dharma. “The Rath Yatra of Puri is a world famous annual event attracting lakhs of pilgrims and visitors from across the world. The chariot festival is celebrated across 192 countries. The proposed airport will help bring Jagannath devotees from across the world to Puri and will help to promote Jagannath culture across the world. Therefore, we propose that an international airport be established at Puri in the name of Sri Jagannath International Airport,” Naveen said. Stating that Puri has the potential to become a hub for spiritual, tourism and economic activities, Naveen said, “The coastal highway passes through this area and connects the Paradeep Port (114km away) and Greenfield Astaranga port (60km away). There is great potential for economic synergy along the entire corridor.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-446
02-01-2021||India||Blood on new Jammu and Kashmir land law||Punjabi goldsmith Satpal Nischal and his family had braved the turbulent 1990s in Kashmir, choosing not to migrate but live alongside their Muslim neighbours of decades. And the militants too left them and their Punjabi brethren in Srinagar alone. Nischal now appears to have paid with his life for purportedly acquiring a domicile certificate and buying property in the Valley under the new land laws the Centre introduced in mid-2020. Militants killed the 70-year-old on Thursday evening at his shop at Sarai Bal in the heart of Srinagar city. The Resistance Front, believed to be a front for a major militant group, claimed responsibility, alleging Nischal had acquired a domicile certificate and threatening to kill all non-Kashmiris who did so. Till recently, the indigenous population alone could own property in Jammu and Kashmir on the strength of their Permanent Residence Certificates. But the new laws replaced the PRCs with domicile certificates, available to Kashmiri and non-Kashmiri alike, and allowed any Indian citizen to own property in Jammu and Kashmir. Many in Kashmir view these laws as an attempt to alter Jammu and Kashmir’s Muslim-majority character. Till the advent of the new laws, Nischal wasn’t eligible to own or buy property in Jammu and Kashmir. Local people said he ran his old shop from a rented space in Sarai Bal but was rumoured to have bought a shop elsewhere in the area after procuring the domicile certificate. Most of the mourners at the Nischal family’s Indra Nagar home in Srinagar were Kashmiri Muslims — neighbours and acquaintances unwilling to leave the family alone in their grief. Beneath such shows of friendliness, however, lies a palpable undercurrent of tension stemming from the abrogation of key Article 370 provisions in August 2019, which paved the way for the new land laws. A police officer said Nischal’s nine-member family recently acquired domicile in Kashmir. Nischal, who had arrived in Kashmir nearly a half-century ago, had lived in rented accommodation at Sarai Bal for about two decades before shifting to Indra Nagar a few years ago, he said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-446
