03-01-2021||India||Prasar Bharati's digital channels record 100% digital growth in 2020||Digital channels of Prasar Bharati have registered more than 100 per cent growth in 2020, with Pakistan being the second-highest digital audience for Doordarshan (DD) and All India Radio (AIR), the government said on Sunday. The Ministry of Information and Broadcasting said the channels across Doordarshan and Akashvani clocked over a billion digital views and over six billion digital watch minutes in the year. Interestingly during 2020, Pakistan accounted for the second-highest digital audience for DD and AIR content after domestic audience from within India, with the United States close behind, the ministry said in a statement. It said during 2020, Prasar Bharati's mobile application 'NewsOnAir' added more than 2.5 million users with the platform registering over 300 million views. Live Radio streaming broadcasting over 200 streams emerged as the most popular feature, it said. Besides DD National and DD News, the other channels in the top 20 digital channels of Prasar Bharati are Marathi News from DD Sahyadri, Kannada programming on DD Chandana, Bangla News from DD Bangla and Telugu programming on DD Saptagiri. While DD Sports and Akashvani Sports have created a steady digital following with live commentary, Prasar Bharati Archives and DD Kisan have been steady digital performers featuring in top 10, the statement said. Underscoring the substantial digital audience for news from the Northeast, the ministry said Northeast service of All India Radio (AIR) News was also in the top 10, and incidentally crossed the 1,00,000 subscribers' digital milestone. Amongst the most popular digital videos during 2020 are Prime Minister's interactions with school students, Republic Day parade 2020 and a rare video of Shakuntala Devi from DD National archives, circa the 1970s, the statement said. A dedicated Prasar Bharati YouTube channel for all Sanskrit language content was launched in 2020, wherein all Radio and TV content being produced in the Sanskrit language across DD-AIR nationwide network are uploaded for easy access to viewers, it said. The ministry said almost 1,500 Radio plays in different Indian languages are available across DD-AIR Network, which is being digitised and uploaded on its YouTube channels. Dedicated Mann Ki Baat and Twitter handle have seen rapid growth in 2020, with Mann Ki Baat updates Twitter handle now having more than 67,000 followers. The YouTube channel has regional language versions of different episodes of Mann Ki Baat, the statement said. It said thousands of hours of educational content is now available on our YouTube channels in different Indian languages. The ministry said rare archival content of great historical value, available only with DD-AIR, is being digitised and uploaded on Prasar Bharati Archives YouTube channel. In public interest, a dedicated team is working to dig out such musical, cultural, political content from thousands of tapes recorded over many decades in various stations of DD and AIR across the country so that the content is available in the public domain with easy access to all for academic and research purposes, it said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-441
03-01-2021||India||Farmers' protest: Protesting farmers battle rain, waterlogging, biting cold||Waterlogged tents, soaked firewood and blankets, and cold conditions --  farmers camping at Delhi borders in protest against the new farm laws had a difficult morning on Sunday due to overnight rains.

The continuous downpour led to waterlogging at agitation venues and waterproof tents did not help much, according to protesters.

Farmer leader Abhimanyu Kohar, who is a member of the Sankyukt Kisan Morcha, said farmers have waterproof tents but those are unable to protect them from the biting cold and waterlogging.

"The situation is very bad at protest sites due to rain which has caused waterlogging. There is so much cold after the rains, but the government is not able to see our misery," he said.

Gurwinder Singh, who is camping at the Singhu border, said there is waterlogging at some places as civic facilities are not up to the mark but asserted that the weather will not dampen the spirit of farmers who have been protesting for over a month.

"Despite facing several problems, we will not move from here until our demands are met," he said.

According to a MeT Department official, heavy rainfall was reported in areas across Delhi and minimum temperatures have increased due to clouding and easterly winds.

"Safdarjung observatory recorded a minimum temperature of 9.9 degrees Celsius...with 25 mm rain. Palam observatory recorded a minimum temperature of 11.4 degrees Celsius with 18 mm rain. Rain with hail storm is expected until January 6," the official said.

Thousands of farmers, mostly from Punjab and Haryana, have been camping at three Delhi border points --- Singhu, Tikri and Ghazipur -- for more than a month, demanding repeal of the three farm laws and a legal guarantee for Minimum Support Price (MSP) and two other issues.

Bharatiya Kisan Union (Ugrahan) leader Sukhdev Singh, whose outfit is leading the protest at Tikri border, said arrangements made by farmers to brave the cold weather are not helping much because of rains and subsequent waterlogging.

Veerpal Singh, a protesting farmer, said their blankets, clothes and wood were soaked. "Our clothes are soaked due to waterlogging caused by rains. Besides, we are facing difficulties to cook food as rainwater has also soaked firewood. We do have an LPG cylinder but not everyone here has it," he said.

Dharmveer Yadav, who is camping at the Ghazipur border protest site, said farmers will not move an inch from their agitation venues. "We are ready to face any problem, be it heavy rain or storm, but we will not leave this place in any condition until our demands are met," Yadav said.

Rainwater also entered camps at Burari ground and the protesters were seen draining the water out and rearranging their belongings to prevent from soaking in water.

Sukhwinder Singh, joint secretary of Kisan Mazdoor Sangharsh Committee Punjab, said, "This is the time when we sow wheat. We work in our fields during night and early hours in Punjab where the temperature is even below what it is here. This would not hamper the courage of farmer."

Gurmel Singh from Patiala district of Punjab, said, "We have not been affected by the rains. We have covered our tractors completely."

Avatar Singh from Ambala district of Haryana said, "We had made our arrangements considering the possibility of rains. The grain is completely safe and under the tent. But the rains have only created mud due to which people are facing difficulty in walking. We are cleaning the area and trying to clear waterlogging."||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-441
03-01-2021||India||Kerala to host Global Ayurveda Festival from March 12||The fourth Global Ayurveda Festival - Kerala (GAF2021), aimed at a global discussion and development of ayurveda, would be held from March 12 to 19 as a virtual meet, Union Minister of State V Muraleedharan said on Sunday. The Union Minister, who is also the Global Ayurveda Festival chairman said the fest would feature 12 seminars per day at five venues. "The conference will focus on the relevance of ayurveda in the post-Covid-19 world and the potential of ayurveda in enhancing immunity. This time the exhibition will be held in virtual and have stalls of ayurveda companies from all over the world," Muraleedharan said in a press release. The festival, scheduled to be held in Angamaly from May 16 to 20, 2020, was postponed due to the pandemic. The festival is organised in collaboration with various departments of the Central and state governments and delegates from different countries would share their experiences. "The requirements will be put forward and the possibility of its participation will be discussed. Steps have already been taken to attract ayurvedic products manufacturers and other stakeholders inside and outside Kerala, including foreign investment. The ayurveda exhibition will showcase technologies, products and services focusing on medical tourism, herbs and research," the release said. The Federation of Indian Chambers of Commerce and Industries (FICCI) is the festival partner and industry partner.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-441
03-01-2021||India||Congress questions Covaxin approval, BJP hits back||The Bharatiya Janata Party on Sunday lashed out at the Congress after some of its members questioned the DCGI approval of the Covid-19 vaccine of Bharat Biotech. Party president J.P. Nadda alleged that whenever India achieves something commendable, the party cites “wild theories” to ridicule the “accomplishments”. Civil Aviation Minister Hardeep Singh Puri also took a jibe at the Opposition, saying they are on a quest for permanent political marginalisation. His dig, however, drew a sharp retort from Congress leader Jairam Ramesh who compared him with Nazi propagandists. Nadda accused the Congress and other opposition parties of trying to cause panic among people to further their “failed politics and nefarious agendas”. “Congress and the Opposition is not proud of anything Indian. They should introspect about how their lies on the Covid-19 vaccine will be used by vested interest groups for their own agendas,” he said in a series of tweets. Congress leaders including Shashi Tharoor, Anand Sharma and Jairam Ramesh raised concerns about the “premature” approval of Covaxin for restricted emergency use. Nadda said, “Time and again we have seen whenever India achieves something commendable - that will further public good - the Congress comes up with wild theories to oppose and ridicule the accomplishments. The more they oppose, the more they are exposed. Latest example is the Covid vaccines.” He said people have been rejecting this kind of politics and do the same in the future. “Congress and other Opposition leaders are trying to cause panic in the minds of the people. I urge them to do politics on other issues, they should avoid playing with people's precious lives and hard-earned livelihoods,” the BJP chief said. “While the entire nation is happy about the development of vaccines, the opposition led by the Congress is filled with anger, ridicule and disdain,” he alleged. Puri in a tweet said, “Our in-house cynics M/s Jairam, Tharoor & Akhilesh are behaving true to form. They first questioned the valour of our soldiers & are now unhappy that the two vaccines to get DCGI nod are made in India. Clearly, they are on a quest for permanent political marginalization.” Jairam Ramesh reacted, “So says the in-house Goebbels-cum-Albert Speer.” Both Goebbels and Speer were close aides of Adolf Hitler. Tharoor, a Congress MP and former union minister, also countered Puri, saying he had never questioned the valour of our soldiers. “I would be happy and proud if more Indian vaccines are approved but only after a full 3-phase trial confirms they are safe & effective. Short-circuiting the process is unprecedented, inadvisable & risks lives,” he tweeted, while referring to Covaxin. “We are baffled to understand what scientific logic has motivated the SEC (subject expert committee) to approve this vaccine posthaste... in violation of the criteria in the draft regulatory guidelines for the development of Covid-19 vaccines published by CDSCO on 21/9/20,” he further said. India's drugs regulator on Sunday approved Oxford COVID-19 vaccine Covishield, manufactured by the Serum Institute, and indigenously developed Covaxin of Bharat Biotech for restricted emergency use in the country, paving the way for a massive inoculation drive.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-441
03-01-2021||India||Sourav Ganguly stable after angioplasty||BCCI president and former India captain Sourav Ganguly, who underwent angioplasty after a "mild" heart attack, is stable and his health parameters are normal, doctors said on Sunday. The cricket icon was diagnosed with three blocked coronary arteries on Saturday, following which a stent was inserted in one to remove the blockage. "He had an uneventful last night and presently Afebrile (not feverish)... He is sleeping now," a bulletin issued by the private hospital where Ganguly is admitted, said. His blood pressure is 110/70 and oxygen saturation level is 98 per cent, it said. Doctors said they will be deciding on conducting another angioplasty after assessing Ganguly’s condition. To a question, a hospital spokesperson said the medical board is not thinking about the option of bypass surgery. "Our expert panel will decide about the future course of treatment tomorrow," he said. "He has taken breakfast, read newspapers and chatted with the hospital staff in the morning. A routine ECG was also conducted... His oxygen support has been removed," one of the doctors treating Ganguly told reporters. Fans of the celebrated former cricketer were seen holding posters that read “Come back dada” outside the hospital, which saw a beeline of visitors like Saturday. Ganguly complained of chest pain following a workout session on Friday evening and family members took him to the hospital Saturday afternoon when the problem recurred. Bengal Chief Minister Mamata Banerjee expressed concern over Ganguly's hospitalisation. "Sad to hear that Sourav Ganguly suffered a mild cardiac arrest and has been admitted to hospital. Wishing him a speedy and full recovery. My thoughts and prayers are with him and his family," Banerjee tweeted. The development came at a time when speculations were rife about his joining politics ahead of the state assembly elections likely in April-May this year. According to political circles in the state, the former batting great could join the BJP, but Ganguly himself never made his intentions quite clear about taking the political plunge.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-441
03-01-2021||India||At least 21 dead in Ghaziabad cremation ground shelter collapse||At least 21 people were killed and 20 others were injuredwhen the roof of a shelter at a cremation ground in the Mudranagar city of Uttar Pradesh on Sunday, police officials said. The roof collapsed when over 25 people had taken shelter at the structure while it was raining. Most of the people who had taken shelter were relatives of Ram Dhan, who was being cremated at that time. A team of the National Disaster Response Force (NDRF) has also been rushed at the spot to carry out the rescue work. Apart from the 21 dead, 20 others were admitted at different hospitals, officials said Sunday evening. They added that the number of the injured could be higher as some others were taken away from the site by their relatives. Rescue operations are still on with the police and the fire department being present at the site. Several others are still feared trapped. Hours later, rescue workers were still going through the rubble to locate more victims, Ghaziabad (Rural) Superintendent of Police Iraj Raja said. Several people are admitted at hospitals. Uttar Pradesh Chief Minister Yogi Adityanath expressed grief over the loss of lives in the incident. The chief minister directed officials to give financial assistance of Rs 2 lakh to the kin of each of the deceased, a statement issued by the state government said. The chief minister also directed the Divisional Commissioner of Meerut and ADG Meerut zone to submit a report in this connection. Union minister V K Singh, who is a Member of Parliament from Ghaziabad, and several senior police and administration officials visited the accident site. Uttar Pradesh Health Minister Atul Garg, who is the local BJP MLA, met some of the injured at the government hospital in Ghaziabad.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-441
03-01-2021||India||Varun Grover, Vir Das rally behind comedian arrested for 'indecent' remarks about Hindu deities||Several comedians, including Varun Grover, Vir Das and Rohan Joshi, have criticised the arrest of stand-up comic Munawar Faruqui, a day after he was held for alleged indecent remarks made against Hindu deities and Union Home Minister Amit Shah during a show in Indore, Madhya Pradesh. Faruqui, a comedian from Gujarat, was arrested along with four others on Saturday after the son of a BJP MLA complained against him. A local court later rejected their bail pleas and sent them in judicial custody. Grover took to Instagram and alleged that Faruqui was "beaten up". The "Sacred Games" writer shared a video where the comedian is trying to reason with Eklavya Singh Gaur, son of local BJP MLA Malini Laxman Singh Gaur, who had filed the complaint. "A fellow Indian, a fellow comedian is in jail and got beaten up by a mob because of the words he uttered. Here he's trying to logically, calmly present his case but our systems now just want to brutally silence every voice. "They don't want to hear, they don't want to even argue - they want to simply erase every shred of individual thought, every iota of reason. And we the people of the greatest civilization of earth are ok with it," Grover wrote. Das took to Twitter and wrote that it is futile to stop humour and to try and "control" it. "You can't stop jokes and laughter. Not because comedians are performing it, but because people need to laugh. Harder you try, the more you're going to be laughed at, now, and by history. "Anyone who has ever tried to control humour, now has a category of jokes devoted to them," Das tweeted. He also posted screenshot of Prime Minister Narendra Modi's 2017 tweet, when he talked about the importance of humour. "I think we need more satire and humour. Humour brings happiness in our lives. Humour is the best healer," the prime minister had said in the tweet. Das captioned the image: "I'm just going to leave this here." According to Gaur, he and his associates had gone to watch the show and when they heard the "indecent" comments, they forced the organisers to stop the programme. As per the complaint, indecent remarks were passed against Hindu gods and goddesses and the Union home minister during the show, in-charge of Tukoganj police station Kamlesh Sharma said. Comedian Rohan Joshi shared Faruqui's video where he is trying to reason with those offended with his jokes. "Turns out now you can just assault people while they're doing their job and the cops will take 'them' to the police station," Joshi captioned the video. Comedian Kaneez Surka and Abish Mathew also shared the clip of Faruqui on Instagram. "Watch this, that's all and then share it," Surka wrote. While Mathew added, "Seven minutes of @munawar.faruqui trying to reason but still...' "High risk individuals to be vaccinated first. So comedians must be up there on the list, wrote comic Neeti Palta alluding to the incident in a Facebook post as India approved Oxford's and Bharat Biotech's Covid-19 vaccines for restricted emergency use on Sunday. On Saturday, Chief Judicial Magistrate (CJM) Aman Singh Bhuria refused to grant bail to Faruqui and other four and remanded them in judicial custody till January 13.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-442
03-01-2021||India||National Commission for Women received 23,722 complaints in 2020, highest in six years||The National Commission for Women received 23,722 complaints of crimes committed against women in 2020, the highest in the last six years. Nearly one-fourth of the total complaints were of domestic violence, according to NCW data. Among states, the highest number of complaints was received from Uttar Pradesh at 11,872 followed by Delhi 2,635, Haryana 1,266 and Maharashtra 1,188, it added. Of the 23,722 complaints, 7,708 complaints were received under the right to live with dignity clause. The right to live with dignity clause takes into account the emotional abuse of women. According to the NCW data, a total of 5,294 complaints were related to domestic violence. NCW Chairperson Rekha Sharma said economic insecurity, increased stress levels, anxiety, financial worry, and lack of other such emotional support from parents/family's side may have resulted in domestic violence in many instances in 2020. "More so, home has become the workplace of both the spouses and as well as schools and colleges for their children. In such situations, women are multitasking being professional at the same time supporting their families from the same space. But the biggest challenge for women this year is not only to adapt but to thrive in this unprecedented situation," she told PTI. The number of complaints received in 2020 has been the highest in six years. In 2014, a total of 33,906 complaints were received, according to the NCW data. The NCW was flooded with complaints of domestic violence in March as the lockdown, imposed in view of the coronavirus outbreak, forced women to remain confined to their homes with their abusers. The number of complaints of domestic violence went on increasing through the months and in July, a record number of 660 such complaints were received. Sharma underlined how domestic violence remained a serious concern for the commission through the year. "Victims of domestic violence are distanced from their regular support systems making it difficult for them to call out for help. The series of Covid-19 lockdowns in India reduced the opportunities of reporting of domestic violence cases," she said. The NCW chairperson said the lockdown incapacitated women by preventing them from moving to safer places in cases of violence and abuse, reduced contact with the natal family which is usually the first point of contact for the victim. "The machinery under the Protection of Women from Domestic Violence Act had not been identified as an essential service during the lockdown. Hence, protection officers and NGOs were not able to visit households of victims and police officers being at the frontline to tackle COVID-19 were overstretched to help victims effectively," she said. After the right to live with dignity and domestic violence, the third-highest number of complaints has been of harassment of married women or dowry harassment at 3.784 followed by that of molestation at 1,679. According to the data, 1,276 complaints of police apathy towards women and 704 complaints of cybercrime were received by the commission. As many as 1,234 complaints of rape and attempt to rape were received while 376 complaints of sexual harassment were received by the commission in 2020, the data showed. Sharma encouraged women to reach out to the NCW whenever they want. In 2021, she said the commission will continue to work with the commitment to ensure justice and empowerment to even the last woman standing at the periphery and will continue with its endeavours. Women rights activist Yogita Bhayana, who heads the People Against Rape in India (PARI), the high rate might also be because of high awareness among women to talk about such incidents and report them. "There has been an increase because there is also an increase in awareness because women are getting more proactive reporting it and talking about it. Earlier they used to suppress their grievances and the government is also spreading awareness and women get motivated by other women reporting it," she said. "Because of social media, the reporting of domestic violence has increased. Women have become more vocal and they have less tolerance which is very good," Bhayana added. Another women rights activist Shamina Shafiq said the government needs to talk strongly about domestic violence. "Unfortunately a man feels it is his right to beat a woman and he enjoys the fact that I am the one in control of the life of another person. There should be writing on the wall that spousal violence is wrong," she said. PTI||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-442
03-01-2021||India||Rahul Gandhi compares farmers’ protest to Champaran Satyagraha||Former Congress president Rahul Gandhi on Sunday drew comparisons of the ongoing farmers’ protests against the three agri laws with the Champaran agitation during the British Raj. He called every farmer-labourer part of the current movement a ‘satyagrahi’ and said they will take their rights back. “The country is going to face a Champaran-like tragedy. British were 'company Bahadur' back then and now Modi-friends are ‘company Bahadur’,” the Congress leader tweeted in Hindi. “But, every farmer-labourer of the movement is a 'satyagrahi' who will take back their rights,” Gandhi said. Mahatma Gandhi in 1917 led the Champaran Satyagraha, which is considered as a major event in India’s independence movement. It was a farmer’s uprising that took place in Champaran district of Bihar during the British colonial period when the farmers protested having to grow indigo with barely any payment for it. The Congress has been seeking the repeal of the three new farm laws, alleging that they will ruin farming and the farmers. The Congress is also supporting the farmers’ agitation against the legislations. After the sixth round of formal negotiations on Wednesday, the government and farm unions reached some common ground to resolve protesting farmers’ concerns over rise in power tariff and penalties for stubble burning, but the two sides remained deadlocked over the main contentious issues of the repeal of three farm laws and a legal guarantee for minimum support price (MSP). The farmers, picketing the national capital’s borders for the past 38 days, made it clear their movement would remain peaceful and that there would be no going back. They added that they had lost faith in the Prime Minister’s words. “Either repeal the three central farm acts or use force on us to evict us. The time has come for decisive action here and we have chosen January 26 because Republic Day represents the supremacy of the people and also because we would have demonstrated patiently and peacefully at Delhi’s borders for two full months in extreme weather conditions by then,” the coordination committee of the Sanyukta Kisan Morcha (SKM) said on Saturday.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-442
03-01-2021||India||Congress raises concern over DCGI nod to Bharat Biotech vaccine||Moments after the Drugs Controller General of India granted permission for the restricted emergency use of two vaccines in the country on Sunday, senior Congress leader Anand Sharma raised concern over the approval of Bharat Biotech’s Covaxin. He asked the government to explain why mandatory protocols and verification of data has been dispensed with. The DCGI on Sunday also approved Oxford’s Covid-19 vaccine Covishield. Sharma, who heads the Parliamentary panel on Home Affairs which dealt with the issue at length, said the issue of granting authorisation to the vaccine use needs to be taken carefully as no country has dispensed with the mandatory Phase III trials and verification of data. “As per submissions made before the expert panel, phase 3 trials have not been completed and therefore, the data on safety and efficacy has not been reviewed, which is a mandatory requirement,” he said. “The Health ministry needs to give cogent reasons for dispensing with the mandatory protocols and requirements in this case, since it involves the health and safety of those frontline workers who will be vaccinated under the restricted category,” Sharma told PTI. “The DCGI statement is puzzling and the government must must reveal the final data of global efficacy trials and the final trials in UK which has been shared officially by UK's MHRA following a government to government agreement signed between the two countries which should be put in public domain to avoid any confusion on the proven efficacy of the vaccine,” he added. He said that the news of the upcoming rollout of the nationwide inoculation drive was “truly uplifting” for a country paralysed with the pandemic. “It is also a tribute to our scientists, researchers and institutions, who have established India as the largest vaccine manufacturer of the world,” he said. An expert panel of India's central drug authority had on Saturday recommended granting permission for restricted use of Bharat Biotech-developed indigenous Covid-19 vaccine Covaxin in emergency situations. The recommendation came a day after the panel cleared the Serum Institute of India's emergency use authorisation application for the Oxford-AstraZeneca vaccine Covishield. Sharma said there are some concerns expressed by the news of recommendation for restricted use emergency authorisation in case of one vaccine which is still undergoing phase 3 trials and that has raised bonafide concerns as that would involve the health safety issues. Another senior Congress leader Jairam Ramesh also raised concerns and asked Health Minister Harsh Vardhan to clarify why internationally-accepted protocols on phase 3 trials are being modified. “Bharat Biotech is a first-rate enterprise, but it is puzzling that internationally-accepted protocols relating to phase 3 trials are being modified for Covaxin. Health Minister Harsh Vardhan should clarify,” he tweeted. The issue was earlier dealt in-depth by the Parliamentary Standing Committee on Home Affairs. The panel has recommended to the government that any vaccine against Covid-19 should be granted emergency use authorisation only after proper consideration and conducting its trials on a sufficient sample size. In its report submitted on December 21 to Rajya Sabha chairman and Vice President M Venkaiah Naidu, the Parliamentary Standing Committee noted that the CDSCO has given no emergency use authorisation in the past, and suggested that all necessary and mandatory requirements must be duly fulfilled and all trial phases completed.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-442
03-01-2021||India||DCGI grants ‘restricted use’ permission to two vaccines||India’s wait for the coronavirus vaccines ended on Sunday as the country’s regulator approved two vaccines, Serum Institute’s Covishield and Bharat Biotech’s Covaxin, for “restricted emergency use” in the country. The green signal from the Drugs Controller General of India (DCGI) was given on the basis of recommendations submitted by a Covid-19 subject expert committee (SEC) of the Central Drugs Standard Control Organisation (CDSCO). “After adequate examination, CDSCO has decided to accept the recommendations of the Expert Committee and accordingly, vaccines of M/s Serum and M/s Bharat Biotech are being approved for restricted use in emergency situations,” DCGI Dr. V.G. Somani said at a press conference in New Delhi. “Serum and Bharat Biotech vaccines have to be administered in two doses. All the three vaccines have to be stored at 2-8 degrees Celsius,” he said. The decision paves the way for at least two vaccines in the country in the near future. Prime Minister Narendra Modi, reacting to the move, said that it will “make every Indian proud”, and congratulated the country and its scientists and innovators. “It would make every Indian proud that the two vaccines that have been given emergency use approval are made in India! This shows the eagerness of our scientific community to fulfil the dream of an Aatmanirbhar Bharat, at the root of which is care and compassion,” Modi tweeted. He thanked the frontline workers for their relentless work. “We reiterate our gratitude to doctors, medical staff, scientists, police personnel, sanitation workers and all Corona warriors for the outstanding work done, that too in adverse circumstances. We will remain eternally grateful to them for saving many lives,” the PM said in another tweet. Serum Institute of India's CEO Adar Poonawalla tweeted, “Happy new year, everyone! All the risks Serum Institute of India took with stockpiling the vaccine, have finally paid off. COVISHIELD, India's first Covid-19 vaccine is approved, safe, effective and ready to roll-out in the coming weeks.” The SII, the world's largest vaccine manufacturer, has tied up with AstraZeneca to manufacture Covishield. Covaxin has been indigenously developed by Bharat Biotech in collaboration with the Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR). In his media statement, Somani also said Cadila Healthcare has been granted the permission to conduct the Phase III clinical trial of its vaccine candidate in India. Pune-based SII's shot is a Recombinant Chimpanzee Adenovirus vector vaccine (Covishield), encoding the SARS-CoV-2 Spike (S) glycoprotein with technology transfer from AstraZeneca/Oxford University. “The firm submitted safety, immunogenicity and efficacy data generated on 23,745 participants aged 18 years or older from overseas clinical studies. The overall vaccine efficacy was found to be 70.42 per cent,” Somani briefed. Further, Serum was granted permission to conduct Phase-2/3 clinical trials on 1,00 participants within the country, he said. “The firm also submitted the interim safety and immunogenicity data generated from this trial and the data was found comparable with the data from the overseas clinical studies.” “The clinical trial ongoing within the country by the firm will continue,” he said. On Covaxin, Somani said, “Bharat Biotech has developed a Whole Virion Inactivated Coronavirus Vaccine (Covaxin) in collaboration with ICMR and NIV (Pune), from where they received the virus seed strains. This vaccine is developed on the Vero cell platform, which has a well established track record of safety and efficacy in the country and globally.” The firm has generated safety and immunogenicity data in various animal species such as mice, rats, rabbits, Syrian hamster, and also conducted challenge studies on non-human primates (Rhesus macaques) and hamsters, he said. All these data have been shared by the firm with CDSCO, he said. The Phase 1 and Phase 2 clinical trials were conducted on approx 800 subjects and the results have demonstrated that the vaccine is safe and provides a robust immune response, he said. The Phase 3 efficacy trial was initiated in India on 25,800 volunteers and till date, approximately 22,500 participants have been vaccinated across the country and the vaccine has been found to be safe as per the data available till date, Somani said. “The SEC has reviewed the data on safety and immunogenicity of the vaccine and recommended for grant of permission for restricted use in emergency situations in public interest as an abundant precaution, in clinical trial mode, to have more options for vaccinations, especially in case of infection by mutant strains. The clinical trial ongoing within the country by the firm will continue,” he said. SII had applied to the DCGI for EUA for Oxford COVID-19 vaccine on December 6, while the Hyderabad-based Bharat Biotech had sought the nod for its Covaxin on December 7. “In terms of safety, Covishield was well tolerated...majority of solicited reactions were mild in severity and resolved without any sequelae. Therefore, Covishield is safe and can be used effectively for prevention of COVID-19 in the targeted population,” the EUA application signed by Prakash Kumar Singh, Additional Director, Government and Regulatory Affairs at Serum Institute of India (SII), had stated. Pfizer had also applied for regulatory approval for its vaccine on December 4 but not much progress has been made on it after that.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-442
03-01-2021||India||Madhya Pradesh to deploy forces to nab Naxals||Around hundred naxalites belonging to Chhattisgarh and Maharashtra have sneaked into Madhya Pradesh over the past few months in order to expand their base, a police official said. This has made the state authorities seek deployment of six paramilitary companies in the rebel-affected areas, he added. These security forces are likely to be deployed soon in MP's Balaghat and tribal-dominated Mandla districts, which the Naxals have entered, he said. “As per the information provided to us by our sources, around 100 rebels from Chhattisgarh and Maharashtra have entered Madhya Pradesh over the past few months to expand their base in the region,” the official added. “Six dalams (groups) of Naxals are operating in Balaghat and Mandla districts. Of these, Khatia Mocha Dalam in Mandla came up last year,” he said, adding that the Balaghat and Mandla districts share a long border. Madhya Pradesh Home Minister Narottam Mishra, during his visit to Balaghat last month, had told reporters that six companies of paramilitary forces are going to be sent to Balaghat and Mandla to tackle the Naxal menace. “The Madhya Pradesh police's anti-Naxal wing Hawk Force is already deployed in Balaghat. Besides, a Central Reserve Police Force (CRPF) battalion is also stationed there,” the official said. Police said that Naxals have sneaked into MP from the neighbouring states can be gauged from the fact that three women Maoists- two from Chhattisgarh and one from Maharashtra- were killed in three separate encounters with police in Balaghat in November and December 2020. A rebel who had entered Balaghat from Chhattisgarh had also been captured in September last year, they added.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-442
03-01-2021||India||Himachal Police rescue 300 tourists from Atal Tunnel||The Himachal Pradesh Police has rescued more than 300 people who were stranded near the Atal Tunnel in Rohtang, an official revealed Saturday. “Some tourists had crossed the tunnel on Saturday morning but in the evening, they could not find any resting place in Lahaul due to snowfall and were stranded midway while returning to Manali,” Kullu Superintendent of Police Gaurav Singh said. In the evening, the Lahaul-Spiti Police coordinated with the Kullu Police to send vehicles through the tunnel, which was inaugurated in October. However, these vehicles were stuck midway while on their way to Manali due to snow and slippery roads, Singh said. A police quick reaction team, a 48-seater bus, and a 24-seater police  were among the near 70 vehicles that were deployed to rescue them. The DSP and the SHO of Manali were involved in the rescue operation which was later joined by the border roads organisation (BRO), the Kullu SP said. “The rescue operation started on Saturday evening and continued after midnight,” Singh added. All stranded tourists were rescued from Dhundhi and South Portal of the tunnel till 12.33 am and were taken to safer places in Manali. The SP further stated that the personnel team led by the Manali SHO was still checking enroute for any stranded tourist. As per forecast by the Meteorological Department, snowfall around the tunnel is expected in the coming days. Issuing a yellow weather warning for heavy snowfall in Himachal Pradesh on Tuesday, the MeT Department had forecast rain and snowfall in mid and high hills of the state from January 3 to 5 and on January 8.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-442
03-01-2021||India||Covid-19 recovery tally inches one-crore mark||The number of Covid-19 cases remained less than 20,000 over the past 24 hours in India, while the number of recoveries inched the one-crore mark, data updated by the Union health ministry showed on Sunday. India recorded 18,177 new cases in a day, while 99,27,310 people have recuperated so far pushing the national recovery rate to 96.15 per cent on Sunday, according to the ministry data. The total coronavirus cases mounted to 1,03,23,965 and the death toll climbed to 1,49,435 with the novel coronavirus virus claiming 217 lives in a span of 24 hours in the country, the data updated at 8 am showed. The Covid-19 fatality rate stood at 1.45 per cent on Sunday. The number of active COVID-19 cases remained below three lakh for the 12th consecutive day. There are 2,47,220 active cases of coronavirus infection in the country which comprises 2.39 per cent of the total caseload, the data stated. India's COVID-19 tally had crossed the 20-lakh mark on August 7, 30 lakh on August 23, 40 lakh on September 5 and 50 lakh on September 16. It went past 60 lakh on September 28, 70 lakh on October 11, 80 lakh on October 29, 90 lakh on November 20 and the one-crore mark on December 19. According to the ICMR, a cumulative total of 17,48,99,783 samples have been tested up to January 2 with 9,58,125 samples being tested on Saturday. The health ministry stressed that more than 70 per cent of the deaths occurred due to comorbidities. “Our figures are being reconciled with the Indian Council of Medical Research,” the ministry said on its website, adding that a state-wise distribution of the figures is subject to further verification and reconciliation.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-442
03-01-2021||India||Father digs grave in Pulwama village, begs for son’s body||A father who lost his 17-year-old son to an alleged police encounter but was denied the right to bury him dug a grave at his village on Saturday in the hope of getting the body back some day. A video of a teary-eyed Mushtaq Ahmad digging the grave in his Pulwama village and pleading for his son’s body has been widely circulated on social media. Class XI student Athar Mushtaq was one of three youths killed in the alleged gunfight in Srinagar on Wednesday. The others were fellow Pulwama resident Aijaz Ahmad Ganai, son of a police head constable, and Shopian resident Zubair Ahmad, brother of two policemen. Security forces claim the three were over-ground workers for militants and were planning a big strike in Srinagar. However, none of them was listed as a militant in the police records before their death. Their families claim they were innocent boys, kidnapped from their homes and killed in a staged gunfight. The police’s refusal to hand over the bodies is part of a policy to bury militants in remote areas. The idea is to avert pro-azadi gatherings, which the forces claim generate recruits for the militants. “I want to tell the DC (deputy commissioner) and SP (superintendent of police) of Pulwama that my son was a kid, a minor who was killed mercilessly, although they claim he was killed in an encounter,” Mushtaq says between sobs in the video. “(On Wednesday) I went to Srinagar but they did not show even his face to me. Then I went to Gund (in Ganderbal district), accompanying his (Athar’s) sister and mother, but they did not allow me to go beyond that.” Mushtaq plans a protest in Srinagar on Sunday and has threatened suicide if Athar’s body is not returned. All three youths were buried in the Sonamarg area of Ganderbal, where dozens of militants killed since last year have been buried too. Addressing the mothers of army soldiers, Mushtaq said their sons were killing innocent men for rewards and promotions. As he dug the grave, sloganeering was heard in the background seeking justice for Athar and the return of his body. The Valley observed a spontaneous shutdown on Friday against the trio’s killing. Former chief minister Mehbooba Mufti has written to lieutenant governor Manoj Sinha seeking a probe. On Friday, the police tried to rebut the charge of having kidnapped the youths. They said there was digital evidence of Aijaz and Athar travelling to Hyderpora locality in Srinagar before arriving at the site of the alleged gunfight, Hokersar. “Similarly, Zubair had gone first to Pulwama, then Anantnag, then Shopian to Pulwama and finally came to (the) place of occurrence,” a police statement said. The police said background checks had revealed that “Aijaz and Ather” were over-ground workers for militants and “variously provided logistic support to terrorists”. “Antecedents and verifications too show that both were radically inclined and had aided terrorists of LeT (now so-called TRF) outfit,” they said, referring to the Pakistan-based terror outfit Lashkar-e-Toiba. “One OGW (over-ground worker) presently under police custody has also corroborated Aijaz’s association with LeT terrorist Faisal Mustaq Baba who was killed in Meej (Pampore) encounter in June last year.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-442
03-01-2021||India||Farmers' protest: Congress slams Modi govt's apathy||The Congress on Saturday slammed the Narendra Modi government’s apathy as another protesting farmer committed suicide at the Delhi-Uttar Pradesh border, wondering how many more deaths it would take to wake up the administration. Party communications chief Randeep Surjewala tweeted: “The suicide of Kashmir Singh, a farmer from Uttarakhand’s Bilaspur, after the suicides of Sant Baba Ram Singh of Haryana’s Karnal and Amarjit Singh of Fazilka in Punjab, is extremely sad. The cruel government must shed its obstinacy and withdraw the three black laws immediately.” Surjewala posted a news report that mentioned a purported suicide note left behind by Kashmir Singh that said: “Till when will we sit in this winter? This government is paying no heed. That’s why I am giving up my life, so that some solution can be found. My rituals should be conducted here only (at the protest site on the Ghazipur border).” Surjewala had tweeted on Friday about the death of 57-year-old farmer Galtan Singh at the same Ghazipur border, asking: “The BJP government should clarify how many more deaths it needs instead of killing farmers in instalments. Let them fulfil their blood lust and withdraw these black laws.” Congress general secretary Priyanka Gandhi Vadra tweeted: “The news of deaths of farmers sitting in this cold outside Delhi’s border is distressing. Reports in the media suggest at least 57 farmers have lost their lives till now and a large number of protesters are ill. The government is demonstrating shocking insensitivity by not conceding the genuine demands of the farmers sitting in protest for over 30 days.” Although the farmers have not allowed political parties to take part in their movement, the majority of them are not happy with the role played by the Opposition so far despite the lapse of a month and the deaths of 57 farmers. They feel the Opposition, including the Congress, is just taking positions verbally to express solidarity instead of acting as a force multiplier. Many farmers argued that the entire country would have erupted in protests had the Opposition parties decided to physically support them in different states. The government has so far chosen not to even express sympathy for the farmers who have either committed suicide or died during the protests. Congress leader Rahul Gandhi did take out a tractor rally in the beginning but there has been no political action after the farmers’ agitation peaked, apart from submitting a memorandum to the President and condemning the government through social media.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-442
03-01-2021||India||BJP leaders face farm anger at their doorsteps||Away from the Delhi borders where farmers have been camping in protest against the farm laws, their counterparts in Punjab and Haryana have expressed their anguish by holding demonstrations in front of the residences of BJP leaders. On Saturday, groups of villagers held demonstrations in front of the homes of Haryana woman and child development minister Kamlesh Dhanda and Kaithal BJP legislator Leela Ram. It was the second time Dhanda was facing such a protest. The demonstrators displaced police barricades with their tractor trolleys before reaching the area in front of her residence. These protests were not isolated as there have been several such incidents in the past few days — a helipad at Parha village in Karnal where chief minister Manohar Lal Khattar was to land was damaged, as was one at Uchana village in Jind where deputy chief minister Dushyant Chautala was to land. A group of protesters holding black flags were booked after they attempted to block Khattar’s motorcade in Ambala city a week ago. Most of the about 90 Khaps (village-level social bodies having a strong following) across Haryana are backing the farmers’ movement. The Khap leaders have also been visiting the protest sites at Delhi’s borders with supplies, including of food and milk. Tulsidas Grewal, the president of the Meham Chaubisi Khap that holds sway over at least five Assembly seats in Rohtak, Jind, Hisar and Bhiwani districts and which is one of the most powerful Khaps in the state, said all the Khaps vehemently support the farmer protest. Ashok Malik, national general secretary of the Gathawala Khap, and Randhir Saroha, leader of Saroha Khap, aired similar views. Grewal added that several Khaps had announced that they would boycott the visits of ruling BJP-JJP coalition leaders. In Punjab too, some unidentified people dumped a heap of cow dung outside the residence of state BJP leader Tikshan Sud in Hoshiarpur district on Friday. They raised slogans against the Centre for what they termed as its callous attitude towards the farmers’ demands. Punjab chief minister Amarinder Singh has, however, taken a serious note of the incident and asked the protesters not to take the law into their hands. He said such incidents would bring a bad name to the peaceful agitation of farmers and defeat its purpose. The protesters belonging to different farmers’ fora have also staged demonstrations in front of the residences of Tarun Chugh, Punjab BJP general secretary, in Amritsar and former BJP minister Anil Joshi in Tarn Taran.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-443
03-01-2021||India||Covid test protocol for UK visitors||Travellers from the UK arriving in India would need to carry certificates showing them as negative for the coronavirus disease and subject themselves to tests on entry, the Union health ministry said in fresh protocols applicable up to January 30. The protocols, released on Saturday alongside the Centre’s decision to resume India-UK flights from January 8, are intended to minimise the spread in India of the emerging UK variant that is about 50 per cent more transmissible than other variants. The health ministry in consultation with the civil aviation ministry has decided to allow limited flight connectivity to the UK with flights initially allowed into only five airports — Delhi, Mumbai, Bangalore, Hyderabad and Chennai. The protocols that shall be initially valid up to January 30 midnight would require passengers coming from the UK between January 8 and 30 to carry negative PCR test reports for which the tests should have been conducted within 72 hours prior to flights. Airlines would have to ensure that passengers carry a negative test report before boarding. The passengers would also be subjected to self-paid PCR tests on arrival at Indian airports and would need to wait until test results before leaving the airport. Anyone found positive would be isolated and their samples sent for genome sequencing. If the sequence shows the presence of the fast-spreading UK coronavirus variant, the patients would continue to remain in separate isolation units and receive treatment under standard guidelines and be able to exit isolation after they turn negative. If the sequence finds other variants already circulating in India, the patient would be advised home isolation or hospital treatment, depending on their symptoms. All contacts of positive cases, including co-passengers seated three rows ahead and three rows behind on the aircraft, would also be subject to institutional quarantine and tested on specific days or earlier if they develop symptoms. Contacts found positive will also have their virus samples sequenced. The protocols come amid concerns that the UK variant might alter or reverse India’s Covid-19 epidemic that has shrunk since mid-September. Some epidemiologists have argued that a fast-spreading variant could overwhelm hospitals and cause more deaths than a deadlier variant that does not spread as fast.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-443
03-01-2021||India||Jharkhand to top up rural scheme wage ||Jharkhand will contribute its own money to buttress its rural job scheme workers’ wages, chief minister Hemant Soren has announced, prompting renewed calls for the Centre to raise the wages under the programme. Wages under the Mahatma Gandhi National Rural Employment Guarantee Act are fixed separately for every state and paid by the Centre, which has been accused of keeping the wages low. In half the states including Jharkhand, the MGNREGA wage is lower than the minimum wage fixed by the states themselves. Jharkhand is the fourth state to decide to narrow the gap by paying out of its own pocket. Soren’s announcement has underlined the Centre’s “lack of political will” to pay even the minimum wage under the job scheme, said social activist Nikhil Dey, who works with the Mazdoor Kisan Shakti Sagathan in Rajasthan. The daily wage under the job scheme in Jharkhand is Rs 194. This week, Soren announced his government would pay an additional sum to ensure the workers receive Rs 225 a day. This would still be far below Jharkhand’s minimum wage of Rs 294. Dey urged the Centre to implement the Mahendra Dev committee’s recommendations of 2015 to bring the scheme’s wages — wherever lower — on a par with the states’ minimum wages. “The Jharkhand chief minister’s announcement is commendable, but the onus of paying wages under the MGNREGA lies with the central government,” he said. “It must enhance the wage in states where it is lower than the minimum wage.” The Dev committee had also recommended that the rural job scheme wages be indexed with the Consumer Price Index for Rural Labour (CPIRL) instead of the Consumer Price Index for Agricultural Labour (CPIAL), as it is now. The CPIAL emphasises the expenditure on food and clothing over that on transport, health and education but the CPIRL gives equal importance to all the parameters. When the job guarantee scheme was launched in 2006, the wage rate was linked to the minimum wage in every state. But since 2008, the scheme wage has been indexed to the CPIAL for the respective state, causing it to lag behind the minimum wage rate in some states that revise their wages through consultations with experts. The finance ministry’s department of expenditure had rejected the Dev committee recommendations, unwilling to shoulder the extra expenditure on wages they entailed.
Siraj Dutta, an activist associated with the NREGA Sangharsh Morcha and the Right To Food Campaign in Jharkhand, lauded the Jharkhand Mukti Morcha chief minister’s gesture but advised caution. “This announcement is significant. But one should wait till it has been notified,” he said. “In Jharkhand, the bureaucracy often delays or raises hurdles before the implementation of announcements made by their political bosses.” Bihar has been paying an additional Rs 8 to its job scheme workers, raising their wage to Rs 202. The state’s minimum wage is around Rs 280. Goa and Karnataka too have made such contributions in the past. The scheme provides for up to 100 days’ paid work a year for every rural household.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-443
03-01-2021||India||Rivals dismiss as ‘outrageous’ Reliance Jio ‘allegation’ of sabotage to get customers to port out||Airtel has written to the telecom department against Reliance Jio’s purported allegation that rival telcos had a hand in provoking agitators involved in tower disruption. Airtel has called the charges baseless and outrageous. It has told the department of telecom (DoT) that Jio’s allegations against it did not demonstrate any evidence that Bharti had any hand in the ongoing issues that the Reliance company was facing, and that the complaint should be dismissed “with the contempt that it deserves”. The letter by Airtel to telecom secretary Anshu Prakash said the company was aware of a complaint made by Reliance Jio to the department dated December 28, in reference to the disruption of RJIL (Reliance Jio) services in Punjab and Haryana because of the farmers’ protests. “The baseless allegation made by Jio that Airtel is behind the farmer agitation to ‘sabotage’ their network and to force customers to switch to Airtel is therefore simply outrageous,” Bharti Airtel’s chief regulatory officer Rahul Vatts said in the letter to the DoT. Jio’s letter to the DoT had purportedly claimed that the “majority of the current sabotage and damage of RJIL network in Punjab, Haryana and some other parts of the country is as a result of the blatant efforts by some of the distributors, retailer and channel partners of Airtel and VIL (Vodafone) in a malicious and inciteful campaign to capitalise on the ongoing farmers’ protest”. A mail sent by PTI to Jio did not elicit a response. A VIL spokesperson said the company deplored the “false and baseless allegations”.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-443
03-01-2021||India||Covaxin jumps direct evidence, recommended for conditional and restricted emergency use||India’s drug regulatory expert panel on Saturday recommended conditional and restricted emergency use of a home-grown vaccine against the coronavirus disease without direct evidence for its protective efficacy. Earlier on Friday, the AstraZeneca-Oxford vaccine had been recommended. The recommendations from the Subject Expert Committee (SEC) to the Central Drugs Standard Control Organisation, the apex regulatory authority for drugs and vaccines, imply India could use two vaccines for its planned campaign to initially vaccinate around 300 million people. The Union health ministry said on Saturday the SEC had granted the permissions under multiple conditions, but some medical experts said the committee appeared to have yielded to a desire to launch an Indian-made vaccine alongside a foreign one. The AstraZeneca-Oxford vaccine, manufactured in India by the Pune-based Serum Institute of India, is named Covishield, while the home-grown vaccine developed by the Hyderabad-based Bharat Biotech jointly with the Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR) is called Covaxin. The SEC’s recommendation of Covishield relied on efficacy data generated through foreign clinical trials. The vaccine has shown 62 per cent protective efficacy in a two-dose regimen in trials in the UK and Brazil. Serum’s Covishield studies in India were designed only to show the vaccine is safe and generates an immune response in the volunteers. Bharat Biotech’s Covaxin has shown encouraging immune responses in volunteers, but the vaccine is yet to be proven effective in actually preventing the infection. A trial to evaluate Covaxin’s efficacy started in mid-November and has recruited over 23,000 volunteers in 12 cities. But efficacy assessment would need Covid-19 infections to emerge in vaccinated and unvaccinated groups, allowing measurements of efficacy through differences in the numbers of infections between the two groups. The permission to Covishield is subject to “multiple regulatory conditionalities”, and the permission to Covaxin is “in public interest as an abundant precaution, in clinical trial mode, specially in the context of infection by mutant strains”, the health ministry said. The health ministry did not clarify what the SEC meant by “clinical trial mode”, but experts familiar with clinical trials said the restricted emergency use would require the vaccines’ performance to be monitored after their launch. “Restricted emergency use means both the vaccines would need to be rigorously evaluated for safety and efficacy even after they have been rolled out,” Santanu Tripathi, the former head of clinical pharmacology at the Calcutta School of Tropical Medicine, told The Telegraph. The Serum Institute has said it has stockpiled 50 million doses of Covishield and could produce 100 million doses per month by February or March. Bharat Biotech has indicated it could supply around 150 million doses a year at current capacity and scale it up to 500 million doses. Senior clinical researchers, including a member of a national task force on Covid-19 who is familiar with Covaxin, said multiple factors weighed in favour of the decision to grant permission for the vaccine’s restricted emergency use in the current circumstances. A senior researcher at the ICMR, the country’s apex health research agency that collaborated with Bharat Biotech in developing Covaxin, said the emergency-use authorisation represented a process to “accelerate” development in response to an epidemic that was killing people every day. “The pandemic has given rise to extraordinary circumstances that require extraordinary responses,” Samiran Panda, head of the ICMR’s epidemiology division, said. Another researcher said Covaxin “generates antibodies against multiple coronavirus proteins, produces high levels of antibodies that promise an immune response of six to 12 months, and stimulates the arm of the immune memory system”. “Covaxin is made from the inactivated (killed) whole virus that has this theoretical advantage of being able to successfully trigger immune responses against emerging mutant variations of the coronavirus,” the task force member said. But several others, including the national task force member, said the standard scientific process would have required waiting for at least the interim results from the ongoing efficacy trial. “They could have waited for interim efficacy results,” the member said. “I don’t know what data the SEC reviewed, but I don’t think there is sufficient clinical evidence to permit even restricted approval,” another clinical researcher said. The SEC’s decisions, taken over Friday and Saturday, have stirred speculation in some scientific circles whether they were influenced by a political desire to have a home-grown vaccine alongside the UK vaccine. Health officials have indicated the vaccination campaign could start within days of the grant of approval.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-443
03-01-2021||India||Sourav Ganguly stable after heart attack||Sourav Ganguly suffered a “minor heart attack” on Saturday and had a stent implanted in his right coronary artery, doctors and officials said at Woodlands Hospital where the former Indian cricket captain is being treated. Sourav, 48, who sources said had got off his car and walked into the hospital at 1pm after the 11am cardiac event, is stable, the doctors said in the evening. The Board of Control for Cricket in India president had suffered chest discomfort and dizziness while working the treadmill in the gym at his home in Behala, a close associate said. Dr Saroj Mandal, interventional cardiologist, who is treating Sourav, said: “Ganguly suffered a minor heart attack and came to the hospital.” “We conducted electrocardiography and echocardiography, which showed dysfunction of the cardiac system, suggesting a heart attack.” Investigations revealed three blockages in Sourav’s arteries, one of which needed a stent implantation, Dr Mandal said. Sourav was wheeled into the cath lab at 3pm and the stent was implanted following angioplasty. Doctors said he received treatment within the “golden hour”, the six-hour period from the onset of the heart attack. “The blockage had caused a blood clot that was hindering blood flow into the heart muscle, resulting in the heart attack. He had no symptoms earlier,” Dr Mandal said. Hospital sources said Sourav was in the ICU but was conscious and talking, and had semi-solid food at night. Cricket Association of Bengal president Avishek Dalmiya said he had met Sourav at the hospital in the evening. “He’s doing fine. He was having food and watching TV when I was there,” Dalmiya said. A medical team at Woodlands will decide on Monday what to do with the two other blockages they have detected in Sourav’s arteries. As soon as Sourav had felt uncomfortable in the morning, he had stopped his workout and walked back to his living room, a close associate said. “He was complaining of pain and discomfort in the chest. This was accompanied by nausea,” the associate said. Dr Saptarshi Basu, a doctor associated with the Cricket Association of Bengal, was contacted. It was decided that Sourav would be taken to Woodlands. “Sourav didn’t show much discomfort when he walked up to the car and sat in his favourite front seat. On arrival at Woodlands he got off the car and walked into the investigation room,” the associate said. Woodlands CEO Rupali Basu said: “He (Sourav) has a family history of ischaemic heart disease. When he came to the hospital at 1pm, his pulse was 70 per minute, and his BP was 130 by 80. His other clinical parameters too were within normal limits.” Speculation relating to Sourav and the upcoming Assembly elections has been rife since his December 27 meeting with Bengal governor Jagdeep Dhankhar. The following day, Sourav attended an event at the Feroz Shah Kotla in Delhi where Union home minister Amit Shah was present. Dhankhar visited Sourav at Woodlands on Saturday. “Called on @SGanguly99 at Woodlands Hospital and saw the usual captivating cheerful smile on his face. Interacted with his wife, daughter and brothers,” the governor tweeted at 6.02pm. Sourav had been closely associated with the hosting of the Indian Premier League in the UAE in September-November. He made three visits to the Gulf country and said he had undergone 22 Covid-19 tests during that period so he could carry out his professional duties.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-443
03-01-2021||India||Centre cold, farmers signal Republic Day parade||The protesting farmers have served an ultimatum on the Narendra Modi government, vowing to march into Delhi on January 26 and stage their own Kisan Gantantra Divas Parade without disrupting the official showpiece event if the three new farm laws are not repealed. The farmers, picketing the national capital’s borders for the past 38 days, made it clear their movement would remain peaceful and that there would be no going back. They added that they had lost faith in the Prime Minister’s words. “Either repeal the three central farm acts or use force on us to evict us. The time has come for decisive action here and we have chosen January 26 because Republic Day represents the supremacy of the people and also because we would have demonstrated patiently and peacefully at Delhi’s borders for two full months in extreme weather conditions by then,” the coordination committee of the Sanyukta Kisan Morcha (SKM) said on Saturday. With another farmer committing suicide — this time at the protest site on the Ghazipur border between Delhi and Uttar Pradesh — the farmers are upset that no one in the government has expressed condolences over the death of at least 50 people since the picketing began on November 26, while the BJP ecosystem has pulled out the stops to malign the movement. The seven-member coordination committee of the SKM — the banner under which the farmers are agitating — addressed a media conference in Delhi to make the announcement. This is the first time the SKM has held a media conference in the capital since the “Dilli Chalo” campaign brought the protesters to Delhi’s borders on November 26. The event was aimed at drawing national media attention, which has dried up in recent days — at the government’s prodding, the farmers suspect. The announcement about a Kisan Gantantra Divas Parade (Farmers’ Republic Day Parade) comes two days after the sixth round of talks with the government, during which the administration conceded two of the farmers’ lesser demands while refusing to budge on the main demands -– repeal of the new farm laws and promulgation of a law guaranteeing a minimum support price. “Only 5 per cent of our demands have been met, and even on that we have not got anything in writing,” Yogendra Yadav of the Jai Kisan Andolan said at the media conference. The ultimatum comes amid attempts by the government to project the acceptance of the lesser demands as meeting the farmers halfway. However, the SKM has, since the conclusion of the sixth round of talks, made it clear that while the ministers were more accommodating and less patronising at the sixth meeting, the agitation will continue because no headway has been made on the main demands. Add to this that even after two-and-a-half days, they have not got anything in writing from the government on its assurance on the stubble burning ordinance and the Electricity (Amendment) Bill. “The farmers have lost faith in Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s words,” said Rajinder Singh of Kirti Kisan Union (Punjab), pointing to the way in which big-ticket decisions packaged as silver bullets had ended up causing a lot of misery to the people. In particular, he cited the demonetisation and the GST, adding that the Prime Minister had lied when he said the Swaminathan Commission formula on the MSP had been implemented. On the cases in the Supreme Court, farmer leader Balbir Singh Rajewal underlined that it was not the SKM -– an umbrella organisation of 500 farmer unions and collectives – that had gone to court. “The government has used its sources to get others to approach the court. We will await the verdict before deciding our future course of action.” This apart, the SKM has asked farmers to step up pressure on all the BJP’s allies across the country to take a stand on the issue. Ashok Dhawale of the All India Kisan Sabha said all the state Assemblies should pass resolutions against the three laws to show their support for the farming community, which still accounts for 60 per cent of the population.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-443
03-01-2021||India||Call to IIM students to innovate||Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Saturday laid the foundation stone for the permanent campus of the Indian Institute of Management (IIM), Sambalpur through video-conferencing and asked students to make innovations, have integrity and inclusiveness as their new mantra to develop their managerial skills to work on the path of Atmanirbhar Bharat (Self reliant India). We had 13 IIMs till 2014, now we have 20. Such a big talent will accelerate the mission of Atmanirbhar Bharat’,” Modi said. Stating that the nation is working on permanent solutions to issues and has shunned the short term approach, Modi said, “During CoviD, India found permanent solutions for PPE kits, masks and ventilators. India had perpetually adopted short-term measures for problem-solving. Today, India has overcome that attitude and changed its approach to find long-term solutions.” The Prime Minister pointed out how despite the Covid-19 pandemic India has produced new unicorns. He cited the example of the launch of Jan Dhan Yojana and opening of 40 crore bank accounts. Modi also pointed out that the number of gas connections in the country had almost doubled from 14 crore to 28 crores under the Ujjwala scheme within a span of-six years from 2014. The Prime Minister urged the students to work on new innovation to popularise the Sambalpuri textiles and the famous filigree works of Cuttack. “To turn local into global, IIM students need to find new and innovative solutions. I am certain that IIMs can act as a bridge between local products and global collaborations,” he said. Stressing that the nation needs to go for new innovation to make the local as global, Modi said, “ New opportunities demand new managerial skills. The new technology has surpassed the geographical limitations. At this point, we need to work with the Time and even walk ahead of the time.” Modi pointed out how the new campus of IIM is coming at a place where there is a medical university, engineering university, Sainik School, police training institute and other prominent education institutions in Sambalpur. The area is rich in tourism potential and known for its handicraft work. Pointing out that the entire area offers a practical lab for the students to experiment, Modi said, “The students’ ideas and managerial skills will come in great use to enhance the tourism potential of this area. There are so many local products such as Bandha Ikat ( a resist dyeing technique) in Sambalpur area. It should be the role of the IIM Sambalpur to make them local for vocal.” Modi also made it clear that students’ skills should be connected to India’s growing aspirations and brand India.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-443
