04-01-2021||India||Bird flu confirmed in dead migratory birds, four states report outbreak||Himachal Pradesh on Monday became the fourth state to report cases of bird flu after Rajasthan, Kerala and Madhya Pradesh, with officials confirming that migratory birds found dead at Pong Dam Lake in Kangra district have tested positive for the dreaded avian influenza. In Rajasthan, deaths of more than 170 new birds were reported from some districts on Monday, taking the total fatalities in recent days to over 425. "Bird flu has been confirmed only in Jhalawar (district). Report of other deaths is yet to come," according to the state animal husbandry department. As some parts of Kerala too reported the influenza outbreak, authorities have ordered the culling of ducks, hens and other domestic birds within one km radius of the affected areas in Kottayam and Alappuzha districts. Officials said some 40,000 birds will have to be culled to check the spread of the H5N8 virus. A farm in Kerala's Kottayam has recently seen deaths of around 1,500 ducks due to bird flu recently. Bird flu is a highly infectious and severe respiratory disease in birds caused by the H5N1 influenza virus, which can occasionally infect humans as well. In Himachal Pradesh, around 1,800 migratory birds, most of them bar-headed geese, have been found dead in the Pong Dam Lake sanctuary. Principal Chief Conservator of Forests (Wildlife) Archana Sharma said the laboratory at the Indian Veterinary Research Institute in Bareilly detected avian influenza in the samples of dead birds while citing the information conveyed by the Centre. At the same time, she said that her department was awaiting confirmation by the National Institute of High Security Animal Diseases (NIHSAD), Bhopal, as it was the nodal body for testing this disease. Northern Regional Disease Diagnostic Laboratory in Jalandhar has also suspected avian influenza in the bird samples, she added. Kangra District Magistrate Rakesh Prajapati has prohibited slaughtering, sale, purchase and export of any poultry, birds, fish of any breed and their related products, including eggs, meat, chicken, etc, in Fatehpur, Dehra, Jawali and Indora subdivisions of the district. Exercising his powers under Sections 34 of the Disaster Management Act, 2005, the official said that shops selling these products would also remain closed in these four subdivisions. Prajapati also banned the movement of locals and tourists within a kilometre radius of Pong Dam. In Himachal's Pong Dam Lake wildlife sanctuary, wildlife staff first reported the sudden death of four bar-headed geese and one common teal in the Fatehpur area last Monday. The next day, over four hundred migratory waterfowl were found dead in Majhar, Bathari, Sihal, Jagnoli, Chatta, Dhameta and Kuthera areas in the wildlife ranges of Dhameta and Nagrota. Subsequently, hundreds of more birds were found dead each day, totalling 1,773 till Sunday, she said. She said that more than 90 per cent of the dead birds were bar-headed geese, the most common migratory species at the lake who arrive here from Central Asia, Russia, Mongolia and other regions in winters after crossing the Himalayan ranges. There are eight-nine other bird species whose members have been found dead. Last year, more than one lakh migratory birds had camped at the lake by late January and this year, over 50,000 have arrived so far. The dead birds are being disposed off as per bird-flu protocol, officials said, adding that no such deaths have been reported so far from other water bodies in the state. Wildlife, veterinary and animal husbandry staff across the state have been put on alert and asked to immediately report the death of any bird or animal. The Gopalpur zoo in Kangra which is situated near the Pong Lake has been put on high alert. Recently, a bird flu alert has been sounded in Rajasthan after crows were found dead in half a dozen districts. Bird flu cases were also confirmed in dead crows in Indore in Madhya Pradesh. Bird flu virus was detected in around 50 crows whose carcasses were found in Indore in Madhya Pradesh last week, prompting authorities to issue an alert. In Rajasthan, 80 bird deaths were reported in Bikaner on Sunday, 42 in Sawai Madhopur, 12 in Kota, 12 in Baran, eight each in Pali and Jaipur, six in Dausa, five in Jodhpur and two in Jhalawar, according to the state animal husbandry department. The deaths have been reported in 15 districts of the state. Kerala, which saw the last major case of bird flu in 2016, has sounded a high alert in the affected districts considering the potential of the virus to infect humans, even though officials said that the situation was under control.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-439
04-01-2021||India||Diljit Dosanjh shares income tax certificate to counter reports of probe||“Don’t spread so much hate,” Punjabi singer-actor Diljit Dosanjh said while sharing his certificate from the Ministry of Finance amid reports of an income tax probe against him. Dosanjh has been actively supporting the ongoing farmers' protests against the new agri legislations. There were reports that the Income Tax Department had initiated an investigation into the finances of Dosanjh after he donated Rs one crore to farmers. “There was news that my foundation is connected with some politician. Very good Raje... Keep doing this, no worries no matter how hard you try... Such people’s aim is to distract from real issues. So they will keep doing this,” the actor said in a video on Twitter. “Hope there is some solution (to farmers’ agitation) as today is January 4. I have always appealed and spoken for peace. Never said anything provocative...,” Dosanjh shared in Punjabi.
The actor had earlier taken to Twitter on Sunday to share his “platinum certificate” from the ministry for filing his tax returns for the year 2019-2020 to refute rumours.
The certificate recognises the 36-year-old actor’s “contribution” towards nation-building.
“Here it is, my platinum certificate... One doesn’t become patriotic by saying so on Twitter. One has to work towards that,” Dosanjh wrote in Punjabi.
In a subsequent tweet, the actor said even though he was reluctant to share the certificate, the situation in the country is such that he has to prove his Indian citizenship.
“I didn’t want to do this, but here it is. Today the situation is such that I have to give proof of my Indian citizenship. Please don’t spread so much hate.”
Last month, the “Udta Punjab” star joined the farmers’ protests at Delhi’s Singhu border and asked the demonstrators to be patient and peaceful in their agitation and requested the government to accept their demands.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-439
04-01-2021||India||Farmer-govt talks end in deadlock, MSP not discussed ||The seventh round of talks between protesting unions and three central ministers ended inconclusively on Monday as the farmer leaders insisted on the repeal of the three contentious farm laws right from the beginning, even as the government listed various benefits from the Acts. The next meeting will take place on January 8, farmer leaders said. The two sides took a long break after just about one hour of discussions, during which representatives of protesting farmers had their own food, arranged from langar (community kitchen), as they have been doing for the last few times. However, unlike the last round of talks on December 30, the ministers did not join the union leaders for the langar food and were seen having their own discussion separately during the break, which lasted for almost two hours. The two sides got together again to resume their discussions at around 5.15 pm, but no headway could be made as the talks remained focussed on the farmers' demand for the repeal of the Acts. Farmer leaders said the government said it needs to consult internally and thereafter it would come back to the unions. The union leaders will also have their own meeting on Tuesday to decide their next course of action. In Monday's talks, the two sides did not even discuss another key demand of farmers for a legal guarantee to the Minimum Support Price (MSP) procurement system. Thousands of farmers, mainly from Punjab, Haryana and western Uttar Pradesh, are protesting at various Delhi borders for over a month against the three laws. They have stayed put despite heavy rains and waterlogging at protest sites over the last couple of days, besides severe cold weather conditions prevailing in and around the national capital. Enacted in September 2020, the government has presented these laws as major farm reforms and aimed at increasing farmers' income. During the meeting, the government listed various benefits from the three laws, enacted a few months ago, but farmers kept insisting that the legislation must be withdrawn to address their apprehensions that the new Acts would weaken the MSP and mandi systems and leave them at the mercy of big corporates. The government has maintained that these apprehensions are misplaced and has ruled out repealing the laws. Union Agriculture Minister Narendra Singh Tomar, Railways, Commerce and Food Minister Piyush Goyal and Minister of State for Commerce Som Parkash, who is an MP from Punjab, are holding the talks with the representatives of 41 farmer unions at the Vigyan Bhawan. The meeting began with paying respects to the farmers who lost their lives during the ongoing protest, sources said. On December 30, the sixth round of talks was held between the government and the farmer unions, where some common ground was reached on two demands -- decriminalisation of stubble-burning and continuation of power subsidies. However, no breakthrough could be reached on the two main demands of the protesting farmers -- a repeal of the three recent farm laws and a legal guarantee to the MSP procurement system. On Sunday, Tomar met Defence Minister Rajnath Singh and discussed the government strategy to resolve the current crisis at the earliest, sources said. Tomar discussed with Singh all possible options to find a "middle path" to resolve the crisis, they added. While several opposition parties and people from other walks of life have come out in support of the farmers, some farmer groups have also met the agriculture minister over the last few weeks to extend their support to the three laws. Last month, the government had sent a draft proposal to the protesting farmer unions, suggesting seven-eight amendments to the new laws and a written assurance on the MSP procurement system. The government has ruled out a repeal of the three agri laws. The All India Kisan Sangharsh Coordination Committee (AIKSCC), in the meantime, issued a press statement condemning the police action against protesting farmers in Punjab and Haryana and a ban on protests and dharnas imposed by the Madhya Pradesh and Uttar Pradesh government. It also said that an affidavit filed by Reliance Industries in the Punjab and Haryana High Court was "a ploy to save its business".||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-439
04-01-2021||India||India Tourism Mart 2021 goes virtual, buyer-seller meet from February 18 ||In a first, the India Tourism Mart 2021 will be held on a virtual platform with buyer-seller meetings slated from February 18 to February 20, the Federation of Associations in Indian Tourism & Hospitality (FAITH) said on Monday. FAITH is the policy federation of all national associations representing the tourism, travel and hospitality industry of India. The first such buyer-seller meet undertaken by FAITH in 2015 was inaugurated by Prime Minister Narendra Modi. Christened Tourism Mart' in 2018, the event is supported by the Ministry of Tourism and has emerged as a highly vibrant marketplace. The event has seen active attendance from over 250 buyers from 65 countries having B2B (business-to-business) interactions from hundreds of tourism exhibitors from India, including most of the state governments, hotel companies, tour operators, travel agents and tourist transporters. "The elite international buyers reflect a strategic mix of target countries which are critical, developed and under developing markets for India. The tourism verticals in which B2B interactions take place reflect a mix between leisure, adventure, MICE, heritage and niche tourism sectors," a statement from FAITH said. Due to Covid-19 pandemic, the format of the event this year has gone virtual and online B2B interactions will be held between Indian tourism exhibitors and an elite group of global buyers who will be carefully selected from over 90 countries, it said. "Additionally, the domestic focus will figure prominently in the virtual format this year as domestic tourism buyers will be invited, reflecting a mix of tourism trade, corporate and institutional tourism buyers. This will be in robust alignment to being more vocal for local and a stronger 'Atmanirbhar Bharat' from tourism," the statement said. Another landmark showcase this year will be an engaging virtual knowledge tourism conclave to bring the best in tourism, and for policymakers to discuss how Indian tourism is strategic to the country's socio-economic goals. It is critical as the country targets post-pandemic revival. This will attempt to create strong linkages between India's USD 5 trillion economy and the goals for India @75. "The India Tourism Mart or ITM 2021 virtual will also hope to showcase and be a curtain-raiser for the actual physical ITM to be held in September 2021 highlighting a tourism ready India once the vaccine is successfully deployed, it said. The FAITH associations are eagerly anticipating ITM 2021 virtual to be inaugurated by the PM of India. This will position Tourism@Made in India in services in line with the highly successful Make in India in manufacturing," it added.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-439
04-01-2021||India||Serum's vaccine to cost Rs 200-300 per shot to govt||Coronavirus vaccine developed by AstraZeneca and the University of Oxford will cost USD 3-4 per shot (Rs 219-292) to the government and will be priced at double that rate in private market ones such sales open up, said the CEO of its Indian manufacturer on Monday. Serum Institute of India, the world's largest vaccine manufacturer, has a licence to produce the shot and has already manufactured close to 50 million doses. Its CEO Adar Poonawalla told PTI that the company will start selling the Covishield to the Indian government and GAVI countries in the first stage, followed by the private market. Indian drug regulator on Sunday approved Covishield and Bharat Biotech's Covaxin for restricted emergency use in the country. "We want the vaccine to be affordable and accessible to all. The government of India will receive it at a far more affordable price of USD 3-4, since they will be buying in a larger volume," he said. Poonawalla, who had taken a huge gamble once the pandemic began to unfold by overhauling Serum's assembly line and "sacrificing" products that were to be destined for Europe and America in anticipation of a COVID-19 vaccine, said the priority supplies will go to India and the GAVI (Global Alliance for Vaccines and Immunization) nations. Only after meeting their requirements, "the private market will open up where the pricing would be USD 6-8 per done," he said. Serum will have 100 million doses in a month, and will possibly double it by April. The government has indicated that it may need 300 million doses before July 2021, with frontline health workers and the elderly given priority. Poonawalla said Serum was in touch with the government for the vaccine's procurement. "Initially, we will supply 50 million doses and we will get more confirmations over the course of the next few days," he added. After the regulator's nod, Serum expects formalities to be completed in the next 7 to 10 days for the rollout to begin. When asked if the SII has been barred by the Drugs Controller General of India (DCGI) not to export the vaccine till vulnerable populations in India are protected, Poonawalla said: "We will start exporting the vaccine post the government's approval and talks are going on". "Our priority list will see us cater to the Indian market first, then the COVAX countries. Optimistically, by March-April we should have permissions in place," he added. When asked if the company was negotiating bilateral agreements with other countries too for the vaccine, Poonawalla said: "We have bilateral partnerships with nations like Bangladesh, Myanmar, Morocco, etc". On the efficacy of Covishield, he noted that the company has proven in its trials that it has a 100 per cent efficacy on hospitalisation, implying that there were zero hospitalisations found in the people who took the vaccine globally. "The efficacy results of the vaccine are quite high if it is administered in 2-doses within a gap of 2 3months," Poonawalla said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-439
04-01-2021||India||Covid cluster at Leela Palace-Chennai, 20 test positive||Twenty staff members at one of Chennai's star hotels, the Leela Palace, tested positive for Covid-19, NDTV.com, quoting health authorities, reported on Monday. The news comes a fortnight after another luxury hotel, ITC Grand Chola, emerged as a Covid cluster where 85 staff of the ITC hotel, their family members and neighbours were declared positive for the novel coronavirus infection. While the hotel officials said they were following all state-directed standard operating procedures (SOPs), in addition to their own hygiene protocol, the Tamil Nadu health authorities ordered a saturation test covering all members of the establishment and across hotels in the city, the website reported. As many as 232 staff members of the Leela Palace were tested for the virus and results of about 10 per cent were shown to be positive, NDTV.com quoted a senior health official as saying. Of the total 6,416 people directly employed at hotels across Chennai, almost 68 per cent, or 4,392 staff members were tested for coronavirus, officials said. "Hotels in Chennai are being periodically screened and sensitised. The Chennai Corporation was asked to conduct a saturation test for all the residents of the hotel," Tamil Nadu Health Secretary J Radhakrishnan had said earlier. Over 100 students of IT-Madras were infected with Covid-19 within a week's time in mid-December last year and the campus had to be put under temporary lockdown.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-439
04-01-2021||India||Farmer unions insist on repeal of new laws ||The seventh round of talks between protesting unions and three central ministers got underway here on Monday afternoon to resolve an over-a-month-long impasse over farmers' agitation against three farm laws, but representatives of farmer groups stuck to their demand for the repeal of the Acts. As the two sides took a lunch break after about one hour of talks, sources said the government also remained firm on not repealing the laws and is believed to have suggested a panel to take the matter forward. In the first hour of talks, the two sides were yet to discuss another key demand of farmers for a legal guarantee to the Minimum Support Price (MSP) procurement system. The representatives of protesting farmers had their own food, arranged from langar (community kitchen), as they have been doing for the last few times. However, unlike the last round of talks on December 30, the ministers did not join the union leaders for the langar food and were seen having their own discussion separately during the break, which lasted for more than one and half hours. The two sides got back together to resume their discussions at around 5.15 pm. Bharatiya Kisan Union leader Rakesh Tikait, who is participating in the meeting, told PTI over the phone during the break that the first hour of discussion remained focussed on the three laws. "Our demand is the repeal of the laws. We will not agree to any alternatives such as the setting of the committee," he said. Asked if there could be a concrete outcome from the meeting, Tikait said, "I don't think so. They have to take back the laws for us to end the protest and go back to our homes." Thousands of farmers, mainly from Punjab, Haryana and western Uttar Pradesh, are protesting at various Delhi borders for over a month against the three laws. They have stayed put despite heavy rains and waterlogging at protest sites over the last couple of days, besides severe cold weather conditions prevailing in and around the national capital. The talks are still on and there has not yet been any discussion on the second agenda pertaining to giving legal backing to MSP, Tikait said during the break. Another union representative, Kavitha Kurungati of Mahila Kisan Adhikar Manch, said, "The standoff continues as the government is talking about benefits of the laws and we are asking for the repeal of those laws." No discussion has yet happened on the MSP, she said about the first hour of the meeting. Enacted in September 2020, the government has presented these laws as major farm reforms and aimed at increasing farmers' income. During the meeting, the government listed various benefits from the three laws, enacted a few months ago, but farmers kept insisting that the legislation must be withdrawn to address their apprehensions that the new Acts would weaken the MSP and mandi systems and leave them at the mercy of big corporates. The government has maintained that these apprehensions are misplaced and has ruled out repealing the laws. Union Agriculture Minister Narendra Singh Tomar, Railways, Commerce and Food Minister Piyush Goyal and Minister of State for Commerce Som Parkash, who is an MP from Punjab, are holding the talks with the representatives of 41 farmer unions at the Vigyan Bhawan. The meeting began with paying respects to the farmers who lost their lives during the ongoing protest, sources said. On December 30, the sixth round of talks was held between the government and the farmer unions, where some common ground was reached on two demands -- decriminalisation of stubble-burning and continuation of power subsidies. However, no breakthrough could be reached on the two main demands of the protesting farmers -- a repeal of the three recent farm laws and a legal guarantee to the MSP procurement system. On Sunday, Tomar met Defence Minister Rajnath Singh and discussed the government strategy to resolve the current crisis at the earliest, sources said. Tomar discussed with Singh all possible options to find a "middle path" to resolve the crisis, they added. While several opposition parties and people from other walks of life have come out in support of the farmers, some farmer groups have also met the agriculture minister over the last few weeks to extend their support to the three laws. Last month, the government had sent a draft proposal to the protesting farmer unions, suggesting seven-eight amendments to the new laws and a written assurance on the MSP procurement system. The government has ruled out a repeal of the three agri laws. The All India Kisan Sangharsh Coordination Committee (AIKSCC), in the meantime, issued a press statement condemning the police action against protesting farmers in Punjab and Haryana and a ban on protests and dharnas imposed by the Madhya Pradesh and Uttar Pradesh government. It also said that an affidavit filed by Reliance Industries in the Punjab and Haryana High Court was "a ploy to save its business".||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-439
04-01-2021||India||Kejriwal urges Centre to accept all demands of farmers||Delhi Chief Minister and AAP convener Arvind Kejriwal on Monday appealed to the Centre to accept all the demands of the protesting farmers and repeal the three farm laws. In a tweet ahead of the protesting farmer unions' meeting with the Centre, Kejriwal lauded their resolve in continuing their agitation despite rains and cold weather. "Salute to the resolve of the farmers staying firm on the roads despite rains and cold. I appeal to the Centre to accept all the demands of the farmers and repeal the three black farm laws in today's meeting," Kejriwal tweeted in Hindi. Farmers from Punjab, Haryana, Uttar Pradesh and some other states are camping at several entry points of the national capital blocking the highways, demanding that the Centre repeal the farm laws and give legal guarantee of minimum support price (MSP) for crops. Protesting farmers who have been camping at Delhi borders for the last 39 days braving the bone-chilling cold and now rains have threatened to intensify their protest if their two major demands -- repeal of the three new farm laws and legal backing for the minimum support price (MSP) -- are not accepted by the government in the January 4 meeting. Enacted in September 2020, the government has presented these laws as major farm reforms and aimed at increasing farmers' income, but protesting farmers have raised concerns that these legislations would weaken the MSP and mandi systems and leave them at the mercy of big corporates.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-439
04-01-2021||India||Adequate Covid vaccine stockpiled to inoculate priority groups in first phase, says Niti Aayog member||India has enough stockpile of the Covid-19 vaccine for inoculation of priority groups, including healthcare workers and frontline workers, in the first phase, Niti Aayog member V K Paul said on Monday. Paul, who is also the Chairman of National Expert Group On Vaccine Administration for Covid-19 (NEGVAC) further said the government will soon announce its plans for purchase and distribution of Covid-19 vaccine. "Our first phase (of vaccination) comprises priority groups with a high risk of mortality and our healthcare and frontline workers. For them, we believe, we have enough (Covid-19 vaccine) stockpile," he told PTI in an interview. India's drug regulator DCGI on Sunday approved the Oxford Covid-19 vaccine Covishield, manufactured by the Serum Institute, and indigenously developed Covaxin of Bharat Biotech for restricted emergency use in the country, paving the way for a massive inoculation drive. Paul noted that "three to four months from now, there will be other vaccines and the stockpile will be even bigger. "And more acceleration can be brought about in the vaccination programme," Paul added. Asked when the government will announce its plans for purchase and distribution of COVID-19 vaccine, he said, "this will follow. Now the essential has taken place, all these steps will be taken." Asked what would be the single biggest challenge in mass vaccination for COVID-19, Paul noted that the biggest challenge encompasses the huge mobilisation that is required for such an effort. "Well, the single most important challenge for mass vaccination on such a scale is mobilising beneficiaries on the appointed day and to conduct sessions in smooth, systemic protocols, ensuring COVID-19 appropriate precautions, I think is the single biggest challenge," he observed. According to Paul, the purpose of vaccination is a staggering ambition and can be seen as hierarchical. "Ultimately, we would like vaccination to stop, stall and extinguish the pandemic, that is the ultimate purpose," he said adding that for that to be achieved, a herd immunity of about 70 per cent has to be created either through vaccination or by adding those people who have undergone natural infection. Paul pointed out that for normal life to go on, there should be enough vaccinated people, so that the country's industry, schools, transportation, the judicial system and Parliamentary activity go on. "Even though the virus may be there, the pandemic may not have finished but enough of economic and social life could go on," he emphasised. Replying to a question that India does not have experience in adult vaccination, the Niti Aayog member noted that countries face new challenges and then they respond on the basis of their intrinsic capability. "We have tremendous experience in running immunisation programs. We have experience of running affairs like national elections which happen over a short period of time across the country," he said. "So those experiences and those SOP will come handy and build on that India's ingenuity, India's innovation and India's experience will make it possible for us to mount a successful vaccination programme, even though it is unprecedented," he added. Referring to the health ministry's recently issued 'Covid-19 Vaccine Operational Guidelines', Paul said, "God forbid, if you have any comorbidity, then you will get a vaccine in the first phase of the vaccination programme. Otherwise, you will get after these high priority groups have been covered." India's drug regulator DCGI on Sunday approved the Oxford COVID-19 vaccine Covishield, manufactured by the Serum Institute, and indigenously developed Covaxin of Bharat Biotech for restricted emergency use in the country. The approval by the Drugs Controller General of India (DCGI) was given on the basis of recommendations submitted by a COVID-19 subject expert committee (SEC) of the Central Drugs Standard Control Organisation (CDSCO). "After adequate examination, CDSCO has decided to accept the recommendations of the Expert Committee and accordingly, vaccines of M/s Serum and M/s Bharat Biotech are being approved for restricted use in emergency situations," DCGI Dr V G Somani had said. This paves the way for the rollout of at least two vaccines in India in the coming days. The Serum Institute of India, the world's largest vaccine manufacturer, has tied up with AstraZeneca to manufacture Covishield. Covaxin has been indigenously developed by Bharat Biotech in collaboration with the Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR). Also, the authority granted Cadila Healthcare the permission to conduct the Phase III clinical trial of its vaccine candidate in India, Somani had said. PTI||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-439
04-01-2021||India||India set to begin world's biggest Covid vaccination drive, says PM||The world's biggest inoculation drive against Coronavirus is set to begin in the country, Prime Minister Narendra Modi said on Monday, a day after India's drugs regulator approved two vaccines for restricted emergency use. Lauding the scientists and technicians for the 'Made in India' vaccines, he said the country is proud of them. "World's biggest Covid-19 vaccination programme set to begin in India. For this, the country is proud of the contributions of its scientists and technicians," Modi said. India's drugs regulator on Sunday approved Oxford COVID-19 vaccine Covishield, manufactured by the Serum Institute, and indigenously developed Covaxin of Bharat Biotech for restricted emergency use in the country, paving the way for a massive inoculation drive. Addressing scientists at the National Metrology Conclave, Modi also said that it must be ensured that 'Made in India' products not only have a global demand but also global acceptance. "Quality is as much important as quantity, our standards should rise with our scale in our quest for Aatmanirbhar Bharat," he stressed. The prime minister said in any progressive society, research is key and effective and its effects are commercial and social. They also help widen approach and thinking. "We do not want to fill the world with Indian products, but we must win the hearts of every customer of Indian products in every corner of the world," he said. Quality of services in our country and products, both public or private sector, will determine India's strength in the world, he stressed. The prime minister pointed out that historically any country has progressed in direct correlation to its effort to promote science. He termed this 'value creation cycle' of Science, Technology and Industry. He said scientific invention creates technology and this leads to industry development. Industry, in turn, invests further in science for new research. "This value creation cycle of science to mass creation has become all the more important in today's world when the country is moving forward with the goal of 'Aatmanirbhar' India. CSIR will have to play its role in this," he said. Modi also dedicated the National Atomic Timescale and Bhartiya Nirdeshak Dravya Pranali to the nation and laid the foundation stone of the National Environmental Standards Laboratory through video conference. The conclave was organised by the Council of Scientific and Industrial Research-National Physical Laboratory (CSIR-NPL), New Delhi, on its 75th year of inception. NPL is one of the oldest laboratories in the country. The NPL has adopted an international practice for the production of Indian Certified Reference Material (CRMs) Trademarked as Bhartiya Nirdeshak Dravya. Describing the NPL as India's timekeeper, Modi said it also has the responsibility to change the future of India. He urged the institute to come forward and play an important role in keeping with new standards and benchmarks to proceed towards forging a self-reliant India. Modi said metrology also sets the foundation for any scientific achievement and no research can proceed without measurements. "Even our achievement has to be measured on some scale. The credibility of the country in the world will be dependent on the reliability of its metrology. Metrology is like a mirror showing us our standing in the world, the scope for improvement," he said. Talking about the Bhartiya Nirdeshak Dravya, he said this would help the industry to make quality products in sectors like heavy metals, pesticides, pharma and textiles by drafting a 'Certified Reference Material System'. Modi noted that now the industry is moving towards a consumer-oriented approach instead of a regulation centric approach. He said complying with international standards will help the large foreign manufacturing companies coming to India find a local supply chain. He said with the new standards the quality of both export and import would be ensured. It will also provide quality goods to the general consumer of India and reduce problems faced by the exporter. Expressing happiness over the National Atomic Timescale, Modi said India has become self-reliant in measuring the time within the range of a nanosecond. This will be a big help for organisations like ISRO which are working with cutting edge technology. Modern technology-related banking, railways, defence, health, telecom, weather forecast, disaster management and many similar sectors will be benefited greatly from this achievement, he said. The prime minister said the timescale will also help in strengthening India's role in Industry 4.0. "India is moving towards a leading position in the field of environment. Still, for technology and tools for measuring air quality and emission, India is dependent on others. This achievement will lead to self-reliance in the field and will lead to the creation of more effective and cheaper tools for pollution control. "This will also enhance India's share in the global market for technologies related to air quality and emission technology," he said. Modi said institutionalisation of innovation is equally critical as the innovation itself. "Our youth will have to understand how to protect intellectual property. We will have to remember that the more our patents are there, the more their utility. Our identity will get strong in the sectors where our research is strong and leading. This will lead to a stronger Brand India," Modi said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-440
04-01-2021||India||Rain, strong winds help improve Delhi's air quality to 'moderate' category||Delhi's air quality improved significantly to the "moderate" category on Monday morning owing to rain and strong winds. A government forecasting agency said the air quality is likely to improve further to the "satisfactory" category. The national capital's air quality index (AQI) was 148 at 10 am. The 24-hour average AQI was 354 on Sunday and 443 on Saturday. An AQI between zero and 50 is considered "good", 51 and 100 "satisfactory", 101 and 200 "moderate", 201 and 300 "poor", 301 and 400 "very poor", and 401 and 500 "severe". Officials at the India Meteorological Department (IMD) said intense rains lashed Delhi and winds gusting up to 30 kmph swept the city on Sunday under the influence of a strong Western Disturbance affecting northwest India, dispersing pollutants. The Safdarjung Observatory recorded 39.9 mm rainfall between 8:30 am on Saturday to 2:30 pm on Sunday. More rain is likely on Monday. The maximum wind speed will be around 30 kmph, the IMD said. The central government's Air Quality Early Warning System for Delhi said the AQI is likely to remain "moderate" to "satisfactory" on Monday and Tuesday. It said the city's ventilation index -- a product of mixing depth and average wind speed -- would be 5,000 m2/s on Monday and Tuesday. Mixing depth is the vertical height at which pollutants are suspended in the air. It reduces on cold days with calm wind speed. A ventilation index lower than 6,000 sqm/second, with the average wind speed less than 10 kmph, is unfavourable for the dispersal of pollutants.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-440
04-01-2021||India||Dharmendra hoping farmers get justice today||Ahead of the seventh round of talks between the central government and protesting farmer unions, veteran actor and former MP Dharmendra on Monday said he prays with all his heart that the farmers agitating against the three farm laws get justice today. Braving the cold and rains, thousands of farmers, mainly from Punjab and Haryana, are protesting at various borders of the national capital for more than a month against the new agri legislations. "I hope today my farmer brothers get justice. I pray with all my heart. Every noble soul will get relief," Dharmendra, 84, wrote in Hindi on Twitter. This is not the first time the screen icon has spoken up in the wake of the farmer's crisis. In December, Dharmendra urged the Centre to find a solution to the protests over the farm laws. "I am in extreme pain to see the suffering of my farmer brothers. The government should do something fast," he had tweeted. The government has presented these laws, enacted in September, as major agriculture reforms aimed at helping farmers and increasing their income, but the protesting unions fear that the new legislation has left them at the mercy of big corporates by weakening the MSP and mandi systems. On Sunday evening, Haryana Police fired teargas canisters to thwart a march of a group of agitating farmers towards Delhi at Masani barrage in Rewari district. Farmers first broke police barricades put up near Bhudla Sangwari village and then started moving towards Delhi in the evening. A large number of farmers from Rajasthan, Haryana and some other places have been protesting on the Jaipur-Delhi highway for the past several days.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-440
04-01-2021||India||India records 16,504 fresh Covid cases, 214 casualties in a day||Daily new Covid-19 cases in the country remained below 20,000 for the third consecutive day taking the virus caseload to 1,03,40,469, while the recoveries surged to 99.46 lakh, according to the Union Health Ministry data updated on Monday. A total of 16,504 people tested positive for coronavirus infection in a day. The death toll increased to 1,49,649 with 214 new fatalities, the data updated at 8 am showed. The number of people who have recuperated from the disease surged to 99,46,867 pushing the national recovery rate to 96.19 per cent, while the Covid-19 case fatality rate stands at 1.45 per cent. The Covid-19 active caseload remained below 3 lakh for the 14th consecutive day. There are 2,43,953 active cases of coronavirus infection in the country which comprise 2.36 per cent of the total caseload, the data stated. India's Covid-19 tally had crossed the 20-lakh mark on August 7, 30 lakh on August 23, 40 lakh on September 5 and 50 lakh on September 16. It went past 60 lakh on September 28, 70 lakh on October 11, crossed 80 lakh on October 29, 90 lakh on November 20 and surpassed the one-crore mark on December 19. According to the ICMR, 17,56,35,761 samples have been tested up to January 3 with 7,35,978 samples being tested on Sunday. The 214 new fatalities include 35 from Maharashtra, 26 from West Bengal, 25 from Kerala, 16 from Uttar Pradesh and and 14 each from Delhi, Chhattisgarh and Madhya Pradesh. A total of 1,49,649 deaths have been reported so far in the country including 49,666 from Maharashtra followed by 12,156 from Tamil Nadu, 12,107 from Karnataka, 10,585 from Delhi, 9,792 from West Bengal, 8,403 from Uttar Pradesh, 7,115 from Andhra Pradesh and 5,376 from Punjab. The health ministry stressed that more than 70 per cent of the deaths occurred due to comorbidities. "Our figures are being reconciled with the Indian Council of Medical Research," the ministry said on its website, adding that state-wise distribution of figures is subject to further verification and reconciliation.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-440
04-01-2021||India||Dense fog shrouds Delhi after rains||Dense fog enveloped parts of the national capital on Monday morning while the minimum temperature rose to 11.4 degrees Celsius due to a cloud cover over the city, the India Meteorological Department (IMD) said. A weather department official said fog lowered visibility to 50 metres at Safdarjung and 150 metres at Palam around 7:30 am. According to the IMD, "very dense" fog is when visibility is between 0 and 50 metres. In case of "dense" fog, visibility is between 51 and 200 metres, "moderate" 201 and 500 metres, and "shallow" 501 and 1,000 metres. The Safdarjung Observatory, which provides representative data for the city, recorded a minimum temperature of 11.4 degrees Celsius, the highest in the last 22 days, as a result of the cloud cover. Clouds trap some of the outgoing infrared radiation and radiate it back downward, warming the ground. On Sunday, intense rains, thunder and lightning lashed the city under the influence of a strong Western Disturbance affecting Northwest India. The Safdarjung Observatory recorded 39.9 mm rainfall between 8:30 am on Saturday to 2:30 pm on Sunday. The IMD said more rains are likely on Monday and Tuesday. The Western Disturbance is causing widespread snowfall in the hills. Once it withdraws, the mercury will again fall to 4 to 5 degrees Celsius, the IMD official said. On Friday, the minimum temperature in Delhi plummeted to 1.1 degrees Celsius, the lowest in 15 years, and "very dense" fog lowered visibility to "zero" metres. The city had recorded a minimum temperature of 0.2 degrees Celsius on January 8, 2006. The all-time low of minus 0.6 degrees Celsius was registered in January 1935.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-440
04-01-2021||India||Vaccine review method riddle ||Medical experts on Sunday expressed concern about the Indian drug regulatory authority’s silence on the mechanisms through which it would continue to review the performance of the two Covid-19 vaccines it has approved for restricted emergency use. The Central Drugs Standard Control Organisation (CDSCO), the regulatory authority for drugs and vaccines, said on Sunday that it had accepted its expert panel’s recommendations to approve the emergency use of the AstraZeneca-Oxford vaccine and a home-grown vaccine from the Hyderabad-based Bharat Biotech. “After adequate examination, the CDSCO has accepted the recommendations,” V.G. Somani, the drugs controller-general of India and chief of the CDSCO, told reporters. But he did not reveal the conditions under which the vaccines would be rolled out. The approvals mean the AstraZeneca vaccine, made in India by the Pune-based Serum Institute of India and named Covishield, and Bharat Biotech’s Covaxin could be used in the government’s planned campaign to vaccinate 300 million people over the next six months. However, the CDSCO has approved both vaccines under limited evaluation data. The Serum Institute has no efficacy data on Covishield from India, while Covaxin’s efficacy is still under evaluation. While the CDSCO said the approval to Covaxin was granted under “clinical trial mode”, researchers have questioned this terminology, underlining that evaluation of a vaccine under a rigorous clinical trial protocol would be difficult to near-impossible under a campaign. “We need clarification on what they mean by this,” said a senior doctor and member of the national task force on Covid-19. “A rigorous clinical trial to assess a vaccine would require people in two groups — a vaccinated group and a non-vaccinated group selected through a randomisation process. Randomisation is impossible, given the objectives of the vaccination campaign.” The campaign seeks to vaccinate priority groups at high risk of Covid-19 infection or severity — healthcare workers and frontline workers, people aged above 50 and those below 50 but with chronic health disorders. “Given such targeted vaccinations, randomisation is impossible,” the doctor said. The All India Drug Action Network, a consortium of health rights advocates and physicians, said in a statement on Sunday that those who receive the vaccines under a clinical trial mode would need to be informed about the lack of efficacy data on the vaccine. “I think it would have built more confidence in our regulatory processes if its decisions were based on a clear rationale that was publicly communicated with supporting data,” said Anant Bhan, a physician and bioethics expert. The CDSCO has sought periodic safety update reports on the vaccines once every 15 days for the first two months after rollout, and once every month after that. But a clinical pharmacologist said that periodic safety update reports are routinely sought with every new drug or vaccine. Under standard regulations, such reports are sought once every six months for two years, and once annually after that, the pharmacologist said. “They’ve increased the frequency of safety update reports for these vaccines, but this is not equivalent to evaluation under clinical trial mode,” he said. A health official told The Telegraph that “clinical trial mode” implied “a higher degree of monitoring safety and efficacy after the rollout”. But experts said it was unclear who would conduct the efficacy analyses. “Will the companies evaluate efficacy? Or will it be done by the health ministry or its agencies? There is no clarity on this. What protocols will be used to evaluate efficacy?” another researcher asked.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-440
04-01-2021||India||Farmers brave inclement weather and indifferent govt||Blinding rain amid a bitter winter buffeted the protesting farmers at the capital’s borders on Sunday, which served to underscore the government’s perceived nonchalance towards the food providers to the nation and its alleged “thakao aur bhagao (tire out and drive away)” strategy. The farmers kept their chin up and braved the inclement weather and the indifferent government — their resolve highlighted by a video clip of two women standing in the rain on Saturday and becoming a rallying point for others when one of the women raised slogans against the Narendra Modi government. On Sunday, as the farmers scrambled to repair and reposition tents that bore the brunt of the rain and several bonfires were lit to keep them warm, their spirits were kept up by a 12-team kabbadi tournament at the Singhu border. The rain began around 5am and continued for hours, washing away some tents, leaving the farmers’ beds and luggage drenched, and leaving the langars struggling to cook and serve meals amid the water-logging. Abhimanyu Kohar, a member of the Sanyukta Kisan Morcha, said the farmers had waterproof tents but these could not protect them from the biting cold and the water-logging. “The situation is very bad at the protest sites because of the rain, which has caused water-logging. It’s so cold now after the rain but the government can’t see our misery,” he said. Gurwinder Singh, who is camping at the Singhu Border, told PTI that some places got water-logged because the civic facilities were not up to the mark. But he asserted that the weather would not break the farmers’ resolve. Veerpal Singh, a protesting farmer, said the agitators’ blankets, clothes and firewood were soaked. “Our clothes are soaked. Besides, we are finding it difficult to cook food as the rainwater has also soaked our firewood. We do have an LPG cylinder but not everyone here has it,” he said. Protesting at the Ghazipur border, Dharmveer Yadav said: “We are ready to face any problem, be it heavy rain or a storm, but we will not leave this place until our demands are met.” Amid silence at the helm of the executive leadership, Congress leader Sonia Gandhi spoke up for the farmers and expressed anguish at their distress. In a statement, Sonia asked the government to immediately grant the farmers’ demands and end their suffering. Mincing no words, the Congress leader said: “Over 50 farmers have lost their lives during the protests because of the government’s apathy so far. Some took the extreme step of committing suicide. But that has failed to move the government and none, including the Prime Minister, has uttered a word of sympathy for them.” Three more protesting farmers have died, PTI quoted police as saying on Sunday. Shamsher Singh, 45, and Jashandeep Singh, 18, were from Punjab and Jagbir Singh, 60, was from Haryana.  All three were protesting at Delhi’s borders. Sonia said the country had never before had a government so insensitive to the miseries of the farmer and the common man. “Governments and leaders who show disregard for people’s feelings cannot rule for a long time. It is clear that the farmers won’t surrender to the government’s ‘thakao aur bhagao’ strategy,” she said. “The true tribute to the farmers who lost their lives and the spirit of rajdharma (a ruler’s duties) will be to shed arrogance and withdraw the three black laws. The purpose of democracy is to protect the rights of people and farmers, and the government must concede the demands and end the agitation now.” Rahul Gandhi warned the country against a “Champaran-like tragedy”, comparing Modi’s capitalist friends to the British East India Company. British planters had forced tenant farmers in Bihar’s Champaran district to grow indigo against little payment, triggering resentment and paving the way for Mahatma Gandhi to launch his first Satyagraha movement from there in 1917. “The country is once again going to suffer a Champaran-like tragedy. Then it was English Company Bahadur, now it is Modi-mitr Company Bahadur,” Rahul, who had earlier too likened the farmers’ movement to the freedom struggle, tweeted. “But every single farmer from this movement is a satyagrahi (campaigner for truth) who will fight for his right, come what may.” Rahul said: “The government which was not ready to guarantee MSP to farmers gave guaranteed revenues to its capitalist friends to run storage facilities. Government mandis are either being closed or food grains are not being procured. Why this apathy towards farmers and sympathy towards suit-boot friends?” Congress spokesperson Gourav Vallabh said the Narendra Modi government had struck a deal in advance with the Adani group for storage of food grains. He said Adani companies had in a presentation before the National Stock Exchange in 2016 anticipated long-term contracts with huge margins and this was what eventually happened. “Adani Agri Logistics Limited (AALL) has been awarded an exclusive service agreement with the Food Corporation of India for storage of food grains. Revenues are guaranteed as the 30-year contract is linked to inflation,” he said. “Most of the contracts have been awarded to AALL from 2016 onwards. Eight projects are operational and nine projects were under construction as on March 31, 2018. AALL handles lakhs of metric tonnes of food grain for FCI in the states of Punjab, Haryana, Tamil Nadu, Karnataka, Maharashtra, West Bengal and Madhya Pradesh and has also expanded its footprints in Bihar, UP and Gujarat.” Vallabh said the Centre was refusing to procure the promised quantity of paddy from Congress-ruled Chhattisgarh. “Despite a pre-intimation by the Food Corporation of India (FCI) to procure 60 lakh metric tonnes of rice, Chhattisgarh has not received a final consent. The Chhattisgarh government has procured 47 lakh tonnes so far,” he said. “This would impact close to 21.52 lakh farmers. Has the FCI halted procurement in Chhattisgarh because their suit-boot friends are not involved in managing storage in Chhattisgarh, and will the procurement only start when their friends get control of storage?” Haryana police on Sunday evening fired tear smoke canisters at agitating farmers at Masani barrage in Rewari district to thwart their march towards Delhi. The farmers had broken police barricades near Bhudla Sangwari village and started moving towards Delhi. “We have stopped them at Masani,” Rewari SP Abhishek Jorwal said over the phone. The farmers had been camping on a service lane off the Delhi-Jaipur highway for the past few days, the police said. PTI report||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-440
04-01-2021||India||Young women take guard in Kerala politics||They are feisty, confident, multi-faceted and they are like a breath of fresh air in politics. Half a dozen young women have burst onto public life in Kerala, helming panchayats and even the state’s largest city council after the recent local body elections. And politics is not the only forte of these young leaders — all from the CPM. From performing arts to sports to business acumen, the women are equipped with skills that would have helped them shine in other fields too. Arya Rajendran and Reshma Mariam Roy, the youngest mayor and panchayat president in the country, respectively, have hogged much of the limelight as they are only 21 years old, just fulfilling the minimum age requirement to contest elections. But there is another batch of twenty somethings elevated as heads of panchayats who too are making people sit up and take note for reasons not restricted to politics. Amritha C, the president of the Ittiva village panchayat in Kollam district, is a trained singer whose skills came in handy at various CPM political events. The 23-year-old is from a family of CPM workers good at singing. “I took my music classes very seriously until studies came in the way. I hope to pick up from where I left off sooner than later,” she told The Telegraph on Saturday. Like the others helming local bodies, Amritha came up the ranks of the Students Federation of India (SFI) and the Democratic Youth Federation of India (DYFI) before contesting on a CPM ticket in the recent local body polls. Having completed a computer-programming course from the state-run Industrial Training Institute, Amritha wants to pursue higher levels of programming and music. “When the party told me to contest, I left everything aside for now,” said the young woman trained in classical music for 10 years. “I even won prizes at youth festivals (government-organised talent shows for students). But then I wanted a job to support my family and joined the course in computer programming,” Amritha said. Arya, the new mayor of Thiruvananthapuram, the largest municipal corporation in Kerala, is a trained singer. The soft-spoken mayor who is a BSc mathematics student cut her teeth in politics with Balasangham, the CPM’s children’s organisation, before becoming part of the SFI and the DYFI. She could not be reached for comments. Anas Rosna Stephy's is a story of tremendous grit and endurance. Now the president of the Pozhuthana village panchayat in Wayanad district, Stephy, 23, graduated in zoology from the prestigious Providence College in Kozhikode, become an NCC cadet, learn Bharatanatyam and gave the civil services a shot. The elder of two children of a couple in Wayanad who earn their livelihood by doing manual labour, Stephy never let any hurdle bog her down. “As a child I was keen on learning dance and music,” she said. Now she aims to learn Carnatic and western classical violin. “I know I can’t start my lessons now since my party has entrusted me with this responsibility. But I will learn sooner than later,” she said. Challenges are nothing new for Radhika Madhavan, 23, the president of the Malampuzha village panchayat in Palakkad. The second-year MA Malayalam student lives in a one-room house along with her younger brother and parents, who do manual labour. “I don’t have too many skills although I wanted to learn dance and music. But my financial background is not favourable for all that,” confessed Radhika. Olavanna village panchayat president Saruthi P, 23, used to be a school-level handball player before getting active in students politics through the SFI. But that was not the only reason why the Bullet-riding comrade shot to fame. After having spent some 20 days as a volunteer at a Covid care centre in Kozhikode, Saruthi learnt that public distribution had stopped in her area since the owner of a ration shop had tested positive for the virus. “That was the time when the state government was issuing free cooking essentials. So I ran the ration shop for a week before the owner was ready to take over,” Saruthi recalled. The law student who completed her 10-semester dual degree programme just recently wants to pursue higher education after her five-year term as panchayat president. Priyanka Prathap, who is the chief of the Kadambanad village panchayat in Pathanamthitta, possesses a bunch of skills that could be handy in her new role. A second-year student of MSc psychology from University College in Thiruvananthapuram, Priyanka pursued Bharatanatyam for 10 years. Public speaking and “mono acts” — plays with no co-actors — are her other passions that brought recognition. “Thanks to these skills that killed my stage fear, I love being in the middle of anything,” she said, referring to the confidence she gained by performing on stage since Class I. A product of campus politics through the SFI, Priyanka can’t stop thanking her teachers who introduced her to mono acts in Class I. The youngest panchayat president who completed BBA this year, Reshma, was widely noted for her speaking abilities that belie her age and experience. The reason, in her own words, lay in the fact that she pursued oratory as a skill during her school and college education. The prizes she won for public speaking at the state government-run youth festivals for school and college students came in handy during her campaign. “Public speaking is something I always enjoyed since one needs to do proper homework to drive home the points. I am sure my communication skills will help me in fulfilling my duties,” said the president of the Aruvappulam village panchayat in Pathanamthitta district.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-440
04-01-2021||India||Bipin Rawat visits forward posts at LAC||Chief of Defence Staff General Bipin Rawat on Sunday visited forward locations of Arunachal Pradesh at the Line of Actual Control (LAC) and interacted with the army and Indo-Tibetan Border Police personnel. The visit comes amid the continuing standoff between India and China in Ladakh since May last year. The standoff continues with no signs of a breakthrough and the Indian army has 
been maintaining a strong vigil in other sectors of the LAC. On the second day of his visit to operational areas of Arunachal Pradesh, Rawat also reviewed the operational capabilities and preparedness of the armed forces deployed along the LAC at Subhansiri Valley. Rawat lauded the preparedness of the force to face any eventuality. “Complimenting the soldiers for the innovative measures adopted to maintain effective surveillance and enhanced operational readiness, he said that only Indian soldiers could remain vigilant under such challenging situations ever willing to go well beyond the call of 
duty to safeguard the borders. Nothing can deter the Indian Armed Forces on remaining steadfast in their call for duty,” a statement issued by the army said. On Saturday, Rawat had visited the forward Air Force bases in eastern sector and interacted with soldiers from the army, Indo Tibetan Border Police and Special Frontier Force deployed at the forward post in Dibang Valley and Lohit sector of Arunachal Pradesh.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-440
04-01-2021||India||Kisan march sets  out from Nagpur||Hundreds of farmers from various regions of Maharashtra, joined by students and people from various walks of life, on Sunday night left for Delhi from Nagpur to join cultivators who have been protesting at the borders of the national capital for over a month seeking the repeal of three agri laws, a Kisan Sabha leader said. He said widows of those farmers who had committed suicide over farm debt and related issues from east Maharashtra and Marathwada regions, have also joined this “Chalo Delhi” vehicle march. Earlier in the day, students and people from various walks of life hailing from Kolhapur, Sangli, Satara, Nashik, Aurangabad, Ahmed Nagar and other districts gathered in Nagpur under the aegis of Maharashtra Rajya Kisan Sabha. They took out a march in afternoon and a meeting was held at Sanvidhan chowk in evening. “These farmers and others have left for Delhi in 40-odd vehicles, including buses and four-wheelers,” Nagpur district secretary of Kisan Sabha, Arun Wankar, told PTI. He said 800 members of the Maharashtra Rajya Kisan Sabha will also join the protest. Savita Jadhav, 26, who came from Parbhani district  along with 35 other women, said her farmer husband and her father committed suicides in 2010 and 2017, respectively, over their failure to repay loans taken for farming. “I am going to Delhi to support the cause of farmers. I request the government to rehabilitate the families of those farmers who have committed suicide over loans. I also urge the government to scrap the farm laws in the interest of agriculturists,” she said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-440
04-01-2021||India||BJP links vaccine approval with 'Aatmanirbhar Bharat'||Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Sunday linked the emergency use approval to two vaccines with his “Aatmanirbhar Bharat” (self-reliant India) slogan and went all out to claim yet another big achievement made by the country under him. Ministers, chief ministers, BJP chief and party leaders joined to amplify Modi’s message on social media platforms. “A decisive turning point to strengthen a spirited fight!” Modi said in a tweet, describing what the Drugs Controller General of India (DGCI) granting approval to two vaccines meant. He congratulated India and our “scientists and innovators” before linking with his “Aatmanirbhar” slogan, seeking to reap political mileage. “It would make India proud that the two vaccines that have been given emergency use approval are made in India!” he said in another tweet. “This shows the eagerness of our scientific community to fulfil the dream of an Aatmanirbhar Bharat, at the root of which is care and compassion,” he added. The drum beating around the vaccine approval appeared to be aimed at drowning the farmers’ protest on social media platforms. “A momentous achievement for India!” home minister Amit Shah tweeted. “A visionary leadership can make a huge difference,” Shah said. “The approval to Made in India vaccines will prove to be a game changer in boosting PM @NarendraModi’s vision of an Aatmanirbhar Bharat,” he added. BJP chief J.P. Nadda first lauded PM Modi for the “swadeshi tikon” (made-in-India vaccines), terming it a new milestone and then settling to slam the Congress for raising questions over grant of approval to the vaccine made by Bharat Biotech without evidence that it would offer protection against the virus. “Congress and the Opposition is not proud of anything Indian,” Nadda tweeted. The attack was primarily directed at Congress leader Shashi Tharoor’s tweet raising the red flag over “premature” approval granted to made-in-India Covaxin. Tharoor had pointed out that Covaxin had not undergone phase-3 trials. Another Congress leader Jairam Ramesh, too, said it was “puzzling” that “internationally-accepted protocols relating to phase 3 trials are being modified for Covaxin” and sought clarification from health minister Harsh Vardhan.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-441
04-01-2021||India||Twenty-three dead in roof collapse in Ghaziabad||Twenty-three people were killed and 15 others injured when the roof of a shelter at a cremation ground in Ghaziabad, adjoining Delhi, collapsed on Sunday. The roof build just over two months ago collapsed when several people had taken shelter under it in the rain. By evening 18 of the dead had been identified. Most of them were relatives gathered for the last rites of Ghaziabad resident Jairam Singh. Apart from the 23 dead, 15 others were admitted at different hospitals, Ghaziabad (rural) superintendent of police Iraj Raja said. “We came here to cremate my father and lost two more members of my family”, said Rajesh Kumar, a local resident at MMG Hospital, where his uncle was admitted with serious head injuries. An eyewitness who was walking towards the shelter when it crashed said: “It fell at once, giving no time to the people to escape from there. The most pathetic thing was that there was no such building six months ago. We used to stand in the open. The construction of  building a roof adjacent to a small building was completed only two-and-a-half-months ago.” V.K. Singh, minister of state for external affairs and Ghaziabad MP, who visited the ground, said, “There is definitely a lapse on someone’s part. We will conduct an impartial probe and can assure the people that the guilty must be punished soon.” Anita Meshram, divisional commissioner of Meerut, who is heading a two-member inquiry committee to probe the case, told reporters on the spot in the late afternoon, “We are here to ensure that a thorough inquiry is done into every aspect of the incident and expose the guilty people.” Prime Minister Narendra Modi, defence minister Rajnath Singh and Uttar Pradesh chief minister Yogi Adityanath expressed grief over the deaths. “I express my condolences to the near and dear ones of those who lost their lives in this accident, and also hope for a quick recovery of the injured,” Modi tweeted in Hindi. Adityanath announced Rs 2 lakh as financial relief for the families of each person killed.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-441
04-01-2021||India||Bihar schools to open from Monday||Educational institutions, including  schools, colleges, universities and coaching institutes, will reopen in Bihar from Monday after a gap of over nine months since the outbreak of Covid pandemic. Slide in number of coronavirus cases and high recovery rate of 97.61 per cent in the state seem to have boosted the confidence to resume studies physically in the educational institutions. However, the classes will operate only at half the strength of the total students and other protocols of coronavirus have to be followed strictly, education department principal secretary Sanjay Kumar told PTI on Sunday. As per the health departments bulletin, the state had till Saturday recorded 2,53,651 Covid-19 cases out of which 2,47,579 people have recovered from the contagion, thus taking its recovery rate to 97.61 per cent. The state has 4669 active cases with Covid-19 death toll mounting to 1403, the bulletin said. 
The state government has issued a list of Covid-19 safety guidelines for students and staff to follow in the schools, colleges and other education institutions resuming operation from Monday. Notably, the decision to reopen educational institutions including schools, both government and private, for Class IX to XII from January 4, 2021 was taken at a meeting of Crisis Management Group on December 18, 2020. The schools, which will open for Class IX to XII, will be run with only 50 per cent strength in order to maintain social distancing in the classrooms besides wearing masks on the campus.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-441
04-01-2021||India||Odisha schools and colleges to reopen ||Schools and colleges, which have been closed since March because of the corona pandemic, will reopen from January 8 and January 11, respectively. The universities will also reopen from January 11, according to a notification issued by the higher education department. In the schools, only Class X and XII students will be allowed to attend  classes.  Classroom teachings will continue till the end of the April. School hostels meant for Class X and XII students will reopen. A separate SOP( standard operating procedures) will soon be issued for schools, officials said. As per the notification issued by the higher education department only students scheduled to appear for the last semester examination will be allowed to come to the colleges. All the schools have been asked to strictly follow government guidelines while allowing students to enter the school. Sitting arrangements will be such that there will be minimum distance between two students. If needed each class will be divided into batches. It will be mandatory for all to use masks or face shields. All efforts will be made to record classroom teachings. The recordings will be shared among students who fail to attend classes. School and mass education minister Samir Ranjan Dash said students taking the Class X exam will have to answer papers of 80 marks. Out of this 50 marks will be objective in the OMR (optical mark recognition) format and 30 marks will be for subjective questions. However, the evaluation will be for 100 marks only. “Twenty marks will be evaluated on the basis of percentage one has secured out of 80 marks. No one needs to worry about it,” said Dash. While Class X examination will begin from May 3 and continue till May 15, Class XII examination will commence from May 15 and conclude on June 11. The results will be declared within 45 to 50 days of the examination, officials said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-441
