05-01-2021||India||Union Budget to be presented on February 1||The Budget session of the Parliament can be conducted between January 29 and to April 8, the Cabinet Committee on Parliamentary Affairs (CCPA) has recommended on Tuesday. The committee recommended that Part I of the Budget session may be held  from January 29 to February 15, while Part II may be conducted from March 8 to April 8. President Ram Nath Kovind would address the joint sitting of the two Houses of Parliament on January 29, a Friday, and the Union Budget would be presented on February 1, sources said citing the CCPA recommendations. All Covid-related protocols would be followed during the session, the sources said. The final decision on the commencement of the session will be taken by the Union Cabinet of Ministers, they said. The Centre had cancelled the Winter Session of the Parliament in December citing the coronavirus pandemic. In a letter to the leader of Congress in Lok Sabha, Adhir Ranjan Chowdhury, Parliamentary Affairs Minister Pralhad Joshi said, “Winter months are very crucial for managing the pandemic because of the recent spurt in cases during this period, particularly in Delhi. At present, we are in the middle of December and a Covid vaccine is expected very soon.” The minister said he had informally contacted floor leaders of various political parties and “they have expressed their concerns about the ongoing pandemic and opined of doing away with winter session”. “Government is willing to have the next session of Parliament at the earliest; it would be appropriate to have the budget session in January 2021 keeping in mind the unprecedented circumstances created by Covid-19 pandemic,” Joshi wrote.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-437
05-01-2021||India||Kerala gold-smuggling case: NIA files chargesheet against 20 accused||The NIA on Tuesday filed a chargesheet against 20 people before a special court here for their alleged involvement in smuggling 30 kg of gold worth Rs 14.82 crore in diplomatic baggage into Kerala, an official said. All the accused, including Sarith P S and main accused Swapna Prabha Suresh, both residents of Thiruvananthapuram, have been booked under the Unlawful Activities (Prevention) Act (UAPA), an NIA spokesperson said. Suresh and Sarith were former employees of the UAE consulate and they allegedly used their past connection to smuggle gold using the diplomatic channel, the official said. Ramees K T, Jalal A M, Mohammed Shafi P, Saidalavi E, Abdu P T, Rabins Hameed, Muhammedali Ebrahim, Muhammedali, Sharafuddeen K T, Mohammed Shafeeq A, Hamzath Abdulsalam, Samju T M, Hamjad Ali K, Jifsal C V, Aboobacker P, Muhammed Abdu Shameem K V, Abdul Hameed resident and Shamshudeen have also been named in the chargesheet. The case was registered by the NIA on July 10, 2020 against Sarith, Swapna, Faisal Fareed, Sandeep Nair and others under sections of the UA (P) Act after the seizure of around 30 kg of gold worth Rs 14.82 crore on July 5, 2020 at Trivandrum International Airport by Customs (Preventive) Commissionerate, Kochi, from the import cargo addressed to the Charge D' Affaires at the Consulate General of the United Arab Emirates (UAE) in Thiruvananthapuram. Absconding accused Suresh and Sandeep were arrested by the NIA from Bengaluru on July 11, 2020. During investigation, 31 more people, who had conspired and financed gold smuggling besides facilitating the disposal of the contraband and transfer of proceeds thereof to the UAE through hawala channels, for purchasing and smuggling more gold, with the intention of threatening the economic security of India, were arraigned as accused in the case. So far, 21 accused have been arrested by the National Investigation Agency (NIA) in the case, while eight are absconding. The case pertains to the seizure of 30 kg of gold on July 5 last year from a diplomatic baggage at the air cargo of the Trivandrum International Airport by the Customs (Preventive) Commissionerate, Kochi. The NIA investigation revealed that the accused had knowingly conspired since June 2019, raised funds and smuggled around 167 kg of gold into the country from the United Arab Emirates (UAE) between November 2019 and June 2020 through the import cargo addressed to diplomats at the Consulate General of the UAE in Thiruvananthapuram. The main accused in the case had planned to smuggle more gold from countries such as Bahrain, Saudi Arabia and Malaysia. The probe against the absconding accused and others who had facilitated them is on, the NIA said. The consignment was found camouflaged in a diplomatic baggage from the UAE that is exempted from inspection in accordance with the Vienna Convention. Besides the NIA, the ED the Customs and the Income Tax Department probed the accused involved in the case. In July, the NIA had told a special court in Kochi that Suresh, Nair and others conspired to damage the country's monetary stability by smuggling large quantity of gold from abroad. In a report submitted to the court, the NIA also said it is suspected that the accused had used the proceeds of smuggling for financing terrorism through various means. The accused deliberately used the diplomatic baggage of the UAE as a cover to transact illegal business and it may have serious repercussions in India's diplomatic relations with the UAE government and it is prejudicial to the monetary and economic security of India as well, the NIA said. IAS officer M Sivasakar was removed as Principal Secretary to Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan and the state IT Secretary over his alleged links with Suresh and other accused in the case.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-437
05-01-2021||India||Ready to roll out vaccines by January 13, says health ministry||The Covid-19 vaccines cleared by the DCGI on January 3 will be prepared for rollout within 10 days from the date of emergency use authorisation, the Union Health Ministry said on Monday. However, it noted that the final decision lies with the government. Union Health Secretary Rajesh Bhushan, in a press conference, said healthcare workers and frontline workers need not register themselves as their database has been populated on to the Co-WIN vaccine delivery management system in a bulk manner. “Based on the feedback of dry-run, the Health Ministry is ready to introduce Covid-19 vaccine within 10 days from date of emergency use authorisation,” he said. However, responding to a query about rollout, the secretary said the government will take the final decision. The country’s drugs regulator on Sunday granted restricted emergency use approval to Oxford-AstraZeneca’s Covishield and also to indigenously developed Covaxin of Bharat Biotech. Bhushan said that the Co-WIN app can be used by any country who wants to do so, as the system is made for India and the world. NITI Aayog member (Health) Dr V.K. Paul said an optimistic scenario is emerging with the pandemic situation in India consistently improving in terms of active cases and new deaths declining. “Let’s hope this trend will continue. In terms of the new UK mutant issue, this mutation has entered this country and 71 have been isolated which shows our capacity to mount that kind of a scientific investigation. But at the same time we have not seen the emergence of any untoward cluster in the country as of now which is reassuring so far,” Paul said. While healthcare and frontline workers will not be required to register themselves, Bhushan said when they would come to the population priority group, there the provision of registration and editing of data would come. “Then the system electronically allows session allocation...the beneficiary has been vaccinated this will also be digitally captured and he will be given this information digitally when he has to come for the next dose. They will also get an acknowledgement, a unique health ID would also be generated,” he said. Bhushan said Co-WIN will have a provision that one can create a unique health ID and “you can keep the acknowledgement in a digi locker which is free or on your phone”. “In case of an adverse event, to ensure its real time reporting there is a provision in Co-WIN vaccine delivery management system,” he said. Bhushan further said that Co-WIN has the facility of automated session allocation, Aadhaar authentication to prevent malpractice, creation of Unique Health ID for willing beneficiaries, reporting and tracking of adverse events following immunization, if any, SMSes in 12 languages to guide beneficiaries and vaccinators, QR code-based vaccination certificate issued after all doses, DigiLocker integrated for data retrieval and storing QR code-based certificate, 24x7 Helpline including IT professionals.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-437
05-01-2021||India||SII, Bharat Biotech vow to work together on Covid-19 vaccines||After their ugly public spat, Serum Institute of India and Bharat Biotech on Tuesday buried the hatchet and issued a joint statement saying they will work together to develop, manufacture and supply the Covid-19 vaccines in the country and globally. In the statement posted on their respective twitter accounts, the companies said Serum Institute Chief Executive Officer Adar Poonawalla and Bharat Biotech Chairman Krishna Ella communicated their combined intent to develop, manufacture and supply the Covid-19 vaccines. They said the more important task in front of them was saving the lives and livelihoods of populations in India and the world. The vaccines were a global public health good and have the power to save lives and accelerate the return to economic normalcy at the earliest, the statement said. We are fully aware of the importance of vaccines for the people and countries alike, we hereby communicate our joint pledge to provide global access for our Covid-19 vaccines, it said. The Drugs Controller General of India (DCGI) on Sunday approved Oxford Covid-19 vaccine Covishield, manufactured by the Serum Institute, and Covaxin of the city-based Bharat Biotech for restricted emergency use in the country. Now that two Covid-19 vaccines have been issued emergency use authorisation in the country, the focus was on manufacturing, supply and distribution, such that people who need it the most receive high-quality, safe and efficacious vaccines, the two companies said. "Both our companies are fully engaged in this activity and consider it our duty to the nation and the world at large to ensure a smooth roll out of vaccines. Each of our companies continue their Covid-19 vaccine development activities as planned," the joint statement said. Without naming Poonawalla who had called vaccines other than that of Pfizer, Moderna and Oxford-AstraZeneca vaccines "just like water", Krishna Ella on Monday in a media briefing slammed the Pune-based vaccine maker for the remarks. "We do 200 per cent honest clinical trials and yet we receive backlash. If I am wrong, tell me. Some companies have branded me like water," Ella had said. Poonawalla on Tuesday tweeted that there would be a statement clearing up miscommunication with regard to Bharat Biotech. "I would like to clarify two matters; as there is confusion in the public domain, exports of vaccines are permitted to all countries and a joint public statement clearing up any recent miscommunication with regards to Bharat Biotech will be made," he said. Covaxin is currently undergoing phase 3 clinical trials involving 24,000 volunteers.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-437
05-01-2021||India||Cardiologist Devi Shetty visits Sourav, says he is stable||Noted cardiologist Dr Devi Shetty, who flew down to Calcutta to monitor BCCI president Sourav Ganguly’s health following his angioplasty due to a mild heart attack, said that the former Indian skipper is stable now, with no complaint of chest pain or breathing issues. The cricket icon will be discharged on Wednesday, he informed. Dr Shetty, while dubbing Ganguly as an “asset”, said the mild heart attack that he experienced did not cause any damage to his health. The cardiac surgeon then held a meeting with 13 doctors of the woodlands Hospital in Calcutta said that Sourav can return to normal for “his heart is as strong as it used to be when he was 20 years old”. “This was not a major cardiac event which would damage his heart. This event will certainly not have any impact on his life in the future. He will be leading a normal life. It will not affect his lifespan,” Dr Shetty said. Thanking the doctors at the medical establishment for providing Ganguly with the “best possible treatment right on time”, Dr Shetty further said, “He (Sourav) will be able to participate in a marathon, fly a plane or chase any of his dreams or aspirations without this (mild heart attack) causing any set back. He can get back to cricket if he wants to. He can even exercise like a normal person.” Asked if the former left-handed batsman would have to undergo another angioplasty, the cardiologist said he could either treat it medically or go for the procedure. “He (Sourav) has both the options at his disposal, but it would be wise to go for another angioplasty. We have left it to him to decide. We think it would be good for him to wait for at least two weeks and then take a call,” the noted cardiologist said. “He has no chest pain, no breathing problems. He is stable. (He can) go home and come back 15 days later and get the procedure done,” Dr Shetty said. Meanwhile, Dr Rupali Basu, the MD and CEO of Woodlands Hospital, said that Ganguly was “doing well clinically as expected by all of us. He slept well last night and spoke to us this morning. We will be discharging him tomorrow.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-437
05-01-2021||India||Frustrated political players casting doubt on Covid vaccine, says Naqvi||Union Minister for Minority Affairs Mukhtar Abbas Naqvi on Tuesday said some frustrated political players are doubting the efficacy of coronavirus vaccines made in India. Naqvi's remarks came after some Congress leaders raised doubts on the restricted use approval granted to Bharat Biotechs vaccine while its third phase trial is still underway. Speaking after chairing a meeting of Haj Committee of India officials and Haj Group organisers at Haj House in south Mumbai, Naqvi said these "failed and frustrated political players" had earlier questioned the relief measures taken by the Modi government during the coronavirus pandemic. The Modi government has tirelessly and effectively worked to provide relief to every needy person during the pandemic, he said, adding Modi has led the fight against the pandemic. Modi turned a crisis into an opportunity to make India aatmanirbhar (self-reliant), Naqvi said. In an unprecedented measure, the Modi government provided free ration to over 80 crore people, and free gas cylinders to over 8 crore families, a statement from Naqvi's office said. "Rs 1500 were deposited into bank accounts of 20 crore women and Rs 19,000 crore was given under the PM Kisan Samman Nidhi to over 10 crore farmers," it said. Aatmanirbhar Bharat package worth Rs 20 lakh crore was given to various sectors including Rs one lakh crore to the agriculture sector, Naqvi said. Over 60 lakh migrant labourers reached back to their home states during the pandemic through Shramik Special trains and Rs 17,000 crore were given to states under the State Disaster Relief Fund for providing assistance to migrant labourers, he added. Naqvi said the hard-working scientists of India had developed the vaccines and it is a matter of pride for every Indian that both the vaccines approved for emergency use are made in India.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-437
05-01-2021||India||Modi highlights ‘energy agenda’, lays roadmap||Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Tuesday put forth his government’s energy roadmap, envisaging more than double the share of cleaner natural gas in the consumption basket, diversifying sources of energy, connecting the nation with one gas pipeline grid and bringing affordable fuel to people and industry. Inaugurating a 450-km natural gas pipeline between Kochi in Kerala to Mangalore in Karnataka, he said under his administration, the country is witnessing unparalleled work on highways, railway, metro, air, water, digital and gas connectivity which will aid economic development. Modi said his government moves towards an “integrated approach to energy planning. Our energy agenda is all-inclusive”. “While on one hand, natural gas pipeline network is being doubled to about 32,000 km in 5-6 years, on the other, work on the world’s biggest hybrid renewable plant combining wind and solar power has started in Gujarat,” he said. “Also, the emphasis is being laid on manufacturing biofuels as well as electric mobility,” Modi added. “In 10 years’ time, petrol will be doped with as much as 20 per cent of ethanol extracted from sugarcane and other agro products,” he asserted. The Prime Minister said this will help curb reliance on imports for meeting the need for oil, and also reduce carbon emissions. “Alongside, the share of natural gas in the energy basket is being targeted to be raised to 15 per cent from the current 6.2 per cent,” he said. “The pipeline grid will help improve clean energy access as well as also aid in the development of city gas projects,” he said. Modi said 900 CNG stations were set up till 2014 after the advent of compressed natural gas as fuel for automobiles in the country around 1992. “In the last six years, the number of CNG stations has gone up to 1,500 and the target is to take them to 10,000,” he said. “Around 25 lakh households had piped natural gas connections for using the fuel for cooking purposes till 2014 which has risen to 72 lakh now,” the prime minister said. “We are working to provide clean, affordable and sustainable energy,” Modi asserted.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-437
05-01-2021||India||Hardeep Singh Puri welcomes SC judgement on Central Vista project||Union Minister Hardeep Singh Puri on Tuesday welcomed a Supreme Court judgement giving a go-ahead to the Central Vista redevelopment project and asserted that the government has always been sensitive to environmental concerns. The Union Housing and Urban Affairs Minister, whose ministry is executing the ambitious project, said the government would continue to adhere to the highest standards during the period of construction. "Delhi is on course to becoming a World Class capital city and in the first step by the time nation completes 75 years of its Independence in 2022 a new Parliament building will be readily reflecting the aspirations of new India," Puri tweeted. In a majority verdict, the Supreme Court on Tuesday upheld the environmental clearance and notification for change in land use for the Central Vista project. "We welcome the Judgement of the Hon'ble Supreme Court giving the go-ahead for the ambitious Central Vista Project. Central Govt has always been sensitive to environmental concerns & will continue to adhere to the highest standards during the period of construction," Puri said in a tweet. The redevelopment project of the Central Vista -- the nation's power corridor -- envisages a new triangular Parliament building, a common central secretariat and revamping of the three-km-long Rajpath, from Rashtrapati Bhavan to India Gate. According to the government's latest proposal for the redevelopment of the Central Vista, the prime minister's new residential complex will have 10 four-storey buildings with a maximum height of 12 metres. The Central Public Works Department (CPWD), which is executing the project, has revised the estimated cost from Rs 11,794 crore to Rs 13,450 crore.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-437
05-01-2021||India||SC nod for Central Vista project on a 2:1 majority||The Supreme Court on Tuesday cleared the decks for the ambitious Central Vista Project, which covers a three-km stretch from Rashtrapati Bhavan to India Gate in Lutyens' Delhi, by upholding the environmental clearance and the notification for change in land use. The Central Vista revamp, announced in September, 2019 envisages a new triangular Parliament building, with a seating capacity for 900 to 1,200 MPs, that is to be constructed by August, 2022 when the country will be celebrating its 75th Independence Day. The common Central Secretariat is likely to be built by 2024 under the project. A three-judge bench headed by Justice A M Khanwilkar, by 2:1 majority, held that the grant of environmental clearance and the notification for change in land use for the project was valid. Justice Khanwilkar, writing the judgement for himself and Justice Dinesh Maheshwari, also directed that the project proponent set up smog tower and use anti-smog guns at the construction site for the Central Vista project. Justice Sanjiv Khanna, the third judge on the bench, also agreed on the issue of award of the project. He, however, disagreed with the judgment on change of land use and on the grant of environmental clearance for the project. In the majority verdict, the apex court said that prior permission shall be taken from heritage conservation committee and other relevant authorities before start of construction at new sites. On the aspect of change in land use, Justice Khanna said it was bad in law and there was no disclosure for public participation on the issue. The top court's verdict came on several pleas on the issue, including the one filed by activist Rajeev Suri, against various permissions given to the project by authorities including the grant of environmental clearance and the nod to change of land use. On December 7, last year the top court had allowed the Centre to proceed with the foundation stone-laying ceremony for the Central Vista project on December 10 after the government assured it that no construction or demolition work would commence till the apex court decides the pending pleas on the issue. Prime Minister Narendra Modi had laid the foundation stone for the new Parliament building and the construction is expected to be completed by 2022 at an estimated cost of Rs 971 crore. The apex court had earlier said that any change at the ground level made by authorities for the Central Vista project will be "at their own risk". It had made it clear that the fate of the project, which includes several new government buildings and a new Parliament House, will depend on its decision. The Centre had earlier argued in the top court that the project would "save money" which is paid as rent for housing central government ministries in the national capital. It had submitted that the decision to have a new Parliament building has not been taken in haste and no law or norms have been violated in any manner for the project. The Centre had also said there was no arbitrariness or favouritism in selecting a consultant for the project and the argument that the government could have adopted a better process cannot be a ground to scrap the project. Gujarat-based architecture firm HCP Designs has won the consultancy bid for the project to redevelop the Central Vista. The pleas filed in the apex court had also challenged the grant of a no-objection certificate by the Central Vista Committee (CVC) and also the environmental clearances for the construction of a new Parliament house building. One of the pleas was filed against a Delhi High Court order which had said the Delhi Development Authority (DDA) was not required to apprise it before notifying changes in the Master Plan to allow the Central Vista project. A division bench of the Delhi High Court had on February 28 stayed an order of its single-judge bench which had asked the DDA to approach the court before notifying any change in the Master Plan for going forth with the project to redevelop the Central Vista. The stay order of the high court on the single-judge bench's February 11 direction had come on the intra-court appeal of the DDA and the Centre. The petitioners before the high court had opposed the Central Vista project on grounds that it involves a change in land use of the green area adjoining Rajpath and Vijay Chowk for building a new Parliament building and government offices.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-437
05-01-2021||India||India records lowest daily Covid cases in over six months||India recorded 16,375 new cases of coronavirus, the lowest in over six months, taking the country's Covid-19 caseload to 1,03,56,844, according to the Union Health Ministry data updated on Tuesday. The death toll increased to 1,49,850 with 201 new fatalities, the data updated at 8 am showed. The number of people who have recuperated from the disease surged to 99,75,958 pushing the national recovery rate to 96.32 per cent, while the Covid-19 case fatality rate stands at 1.45 per cent. The Covid-19 active caseload remained below 3 lakh for the 15th consecutive day. There are 2,31,036 active coronavirus infections in the country which comprises 2.23 per cent of the total caseload, the data stated. India's Covid-19 tally had crossed the 20-lakh mark on August 7, 30 lakh on August 23, 40 lakh on September 5 and 50 lakh on September 16. It went past 60 lakh on September 28, 70 lakh on October 11, crossed 80 lakh on October 29, 90 lakh on November 20 and surpassed the one-crore mark on December 19. According to the ICMR, 17,65,31,997 samples have been tested up to January 4 with 8,96,236 samples being tested on Monday. The 201 new fatalities include 29 from Maharashtra, 25 from West Bengal, 24 from Punjab, 19 from Kerala and 12 each from Delhi and Chhattisgarh. A total of 1,49,850 deaths have been reported so far in the country including 49,695 from Maharashtra followed by 12,166 from Tamil Nadu, 12,110 from Karnataka, 10,597 from Delhi, 9,817 from West Bengal, 8,413 from Uttar Pradesh, 7,118 from Andhra Pradesh and 5,400 from Punjab. The health ministry stressed that more than 70 per cent of the deaths occurred due to comorbidities. "Our figures are being reconciled with the Indian Council of Medical Research," the ministry said on its website, adding that state-wise distribution of figures is subject to further verification and reconciliation.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-437
05-01-2021||India||Delhi sees rain for third day on the trot, minimum temperature rises||Sporadic rains lashed the national capital for the third consecutive day on Tuesday, even as the minimum temperature rose to 13.2 degrees Celsius, six notches more than normal, the India Meteorological Department said. The Safdarjung Observatory, which provides representative data for the city, recorded 4.7 mm rainfall between 8:30 am on Monday and 8:30 am on Tuesday. The weather stations at Palam, Lodhi Road, Ayanagar and Ridge recorded 12 mm and 4.8 mm, 8.9 mm and 6.2 mm rainfall, respectively, during the period. The minimum temperature rose to 13.2 degrees Celsius as a result of cloud cover. Clouds trap some of the outgoing infrared radiation and radiate it back downward, warming the ground. The weather department said Delhi may witness light to moderate rain, and thunderstorms with winds gusting up to 30 kmph during the day. A hailstorm is also predicted in parts of the capital. The rains, under the influence of a strong Western Disturbance, come on the back of a 'severe" cold wave that gripped Delhi in the run-up to the New Year. On Friday, the mercury plummeted to 1.1 degrees Celsius, the lowest in 15 years, and "very dense" fog lowered visibility to "zero" metres. On Sunday, intense rains, thunder and lightning lashed the city. The Safdarjung Observatory recorded 39.9 mm rainfall between 8:30 am on Saturday and 2:30 pm on Sunday. The WD is causing widespread snowfall in the hills. Once it withdraws, the mercury will fall again to 4 to 5 degrees Celsius, the official said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-438
05-01-2021||India||Reliance says it has no intention to engage in ‘corporate’ or ‘contract’ farming ||Reliance Industries on Monday announced that it had no plans to venture into contract farming, acquire farmland anywhere in the country or source farm produce directly from farmers. The uncommon announcement by the industry group run by Mukesh Ambani is being seen as an attempt to quell the mounting anger against the group after the Narendra Modi government passed three contentious farm laws in September. Farmers agitating against the bills believe that Reliance, besides the Adani Group, will emerge as one of the principal beneficiaries of the so-called farm sector reforms. “Reliance Industries Ltd have not done any ‘corporate’ or ‘contract’ farming in the past, and have absolutely no plans to enter this business,” the company said in a media statement. The conglomerate said it would insist that its suppliers strictly abide by the minimum support price (MSP) mechanism or any other framework that the government implements to provide for remunerative price for farm produce. The statement from Reliance Industries, the country’s largest private company, comes at a time the farmers’ agitation has crossed 40 days and group company Reliance Jio has seen its telecom assets come under attack and faced an exodus of its subscribers. In a 637-page petition filed before Punjab and Haryana High Court on Monday, Reliance Jio said more than 1,500 telecom towers belonging to the group had been vandalised or rendered inoperative by miscreants, crippling its mobile network in Punjab. The petition said Jio subscribers were being forced to port to other networks while its employees had received grave threats to their lives and had been forcibly prevented from serving Jio subscribers in the state. The petition said that vested interests “inimical” to Reliance Jio and its parent RIL had “actively engaged in spreading false rumours to the effect that the petitioner, and its parent company and its affiliates are somehow a beneficiary of recent legislation passed by Parliament, governing marketing of agricultural produce”. As of October 31, Jio had more than 1.4 crore subscribers in Punjab (about 36 per cent of the telecom subscriber base in the state) and 94 lakh in Haryana (about 34 per cent). Farmers accused the Reliance group of making self-serving claims to suggest that it had not acquired farmland anywhere in the country. Hours after Jio submitted its affidavit in the high court, the All-India Kisan Sangharsh Coordination Committee (AIKSCC), representing 250 farmers’ organisations, said: “The Reliance industry’s affidavit is full of false claims of it not entering the crop market and taking over farm land. In Raigad, Maharashtra, and other places, large tracts of land have been taken over by Reliance and it must return all those before making any false claim.” Reliance had acquired over 20,000 hectares of farmland in Raigad in 2007 for a special economic zone (not for contract farming) that never really got off the ground. “Unlike vested interests, Jio has not resorted to any coercive or unlawful measures to win over customers,” RIL said in its media statement, once again amplifying its attack on telecom rivals like Airtel without actually naming them. Last month, Jio had written to telecom regulator Trai accusing its rivals of running a “vicious and divisive campaign” while urging Jio subscribers to migrate to other networks. Both Airtel and Vodafone have termed the complaint baseless. There is no data available to quantify the number of Jio subscribers in the two states who have sought to port out of the network. Media reports suggest that more than 1 lakh subscribers have sought to migrate to competitors. Recently, some users had taken to Twitter to complain that Jio was not responding to mobile number portability requests. Telecom players are obliged to immediately facilitate requests to move to competing networks. However, a spokesperson for the Reliance group has denied that the telecom company has tried to block requests to port out of the Jio network.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-438
05-01-2021||India||Army veterans question delay in acquiring patrol boats for Ladakh||Military veterans have questioned the army’s eight-month delay in ordering high-speed boats for surveillance and patrolling of the Pangong Tso in eastern Ladakh, after the Chinese had established control over two-thirds of the lake. On Friday, the army said it had signed a contract with Goa Shipyard Ltd for 12 fast boats that would be deployed in large water bodies in Ladakh’s high-altitude areas, including the Pangong Lake. “What was the army doing over the past eight months when the Chinese were rushing in additional high-speed boats to the Pangong Lake to strengthen their position?” a retired lieutenant general said. “They have been controlling the heights since May last year and patrolling aggressively in the lake. Ordering high-speed boats eight months after the start of the standoff shows our (lack of) intent. The army brass seem not to have learnt any lessons even after losing territory in Ladakh.” The veteran said the 12 high-speed boats would take another five to six months to be delivered. Army sources said delivery of the 12 indigenously made boats was expected by May-June. Indian and Chinese troops have been locked in a bitter standoff since early May at several points in Ladakh. The Chinese have dug themselves in almost 8km inside India-claimed lines on the northern bank of the Pangong Lake, which is nearly 140km long and 7-8km wide. A retired colonel said the army should have bought these high-speed boats right when the standoff began. “What were they waiting for so long?” he asked. Another veteran said it was “shocking that we have woken up only now” after the Chinese had occupied the Finger 4 ridgeline and were controlling the heights by deploying men and machines. “They are said to have fortified their bunkers on the lake’s shores and built several posts and observation towers,” he said. “It’s shocking that we have woken up only now and placed orders for high-speed boats.” The border standoff had begun at the lake with a fists-and-stones clash between the two armies on May 5. This was followed by a violent face-off on June 15 at Patrolling Point 14 in the Galwan Valley, which killed 20 Indian soldiers and caused an unspecified number of Chinese casualties.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-438
05-01-2021||India||India Covid vaccine makers in corporate hostility ||Simmering undercurrents of business rivalry seem to have erupted into vocal corporate hostility between India’s two Covid-19 vaccine makers that medical experts say could leave the public confused about their vaccines. The heads of the Pune-based Serum Institute, manufacturing the AstraZeneca-Oxford vaccine in India, and the Hyderabad-based Bharat Biotech, producing a home-grown vaccine, have questioned the credentials of each other’s vaccine. India’s drug regulatory authority on Sunday approved restricted emergency use of both vaccines, clearing the decks for the government to launch its planned campaign to vaccinate over 300 million people in the coming six months. Some medical researchers have questioned both the approvals, underlining what they say is the absence of adequate efficacy data on the AstraZeneca-Oxford vaccine and the lack of any efficacy data on the Bharat Biotech vaccine. Covid-19 vaccines from Pfizer, Moderna, Sputnik V and a Chinese manufacturer are already in emergency use in several countries. The UK and Argentina have also approved the AstraZeneca-Oxford vaccine. Serum Institute’s chief executive officer Adar Poonawala on Sunday told a television channel that only three vaccines had “proven efficacy” and the rest were “safe like water”. “There are only three vaccines in the world (with) proven efficacy… it’s Pfizer, Moderna and Oxford-AstraZeneca. These are the only three vaccines which have proven to work. Everything else has been proven to be safe, just like water,” Poonawala said. Bharat Biotech managing director Krishna Ella, a scientist turned entrepreneur, responded on Monday, questioning the quality and quantity of data submitted by AstraZeneca and Serum for regulatory approval for their vaccine. The home-grown vaccine, developed jointly with the Indian Council of Medical Research, has proved safe and capable of generating a strong immune response against the coronavirus, Ella said. “We now have five publications (research papers) in peer-reviewed journals or under review,” he said. The type of immune response observed with the home-grown vaccine suggests long-lasting immunity for six to 12 months, he said. Ella underlined issues relating to the clinical trial conducted by AstraZeneca in the UK and Brazil that some researchers have described as signals of sloppy science. The trial had involved two different dosing regimens with 62 per cent efficacy, 90 per cent efficacy and a pooled efficacy of 70 per cent. “No one is questioning the lousy trial in the UK…. If we had done such a trial in India, our regulators would have shut down our company,” Ella said. “But (India’s regulators) have been gracious enough to approve the vaccine keeping in mind the public health emergency.” Amid the controversy, a Gurgaon-based doctor tweeted: “I will wait for the Pfizer vaccine. Until then, I am going to wear a mask and social distance.” Pfizer has also sought emergency use authorisation of its vaccine in India. Ella said Bharat Biotech’s Covid-19 vaccine was not the first to receive emergency use approval without efficacy data. In the past, he said, Ebola vaccines from Merck and Johnson & Johnson had been approved without efficacy data. In India too, Ella said, during the 2009 H1N1 influenza epidemic, drug regulators had allowed Bharat Biotech and a few other companies – Serum Institute, Panacea and Zydus – to launch influenza vaccines in the absence of efficacy data. He said the Serum Institute had conducted a safety trial with the AstraZeneca-Oxford vaccine on only 1,200 volunteers in India and submitted immunogenicity data on less than the required 400 participants. A senior Indian Council of Medical Research officer confirmed this. The Serum Institute did not immediately respond to a query from this newspaper on the limited immunogenicity data submitted for the review. Clinical researchers said such exchanges between vaccine makers had the potential to sow distrust. Gagandeep Kang, professor of microbiology at the Christian Medical College, Vellore, and a vaccine science specialist, said: “Calling out other products builds distrust. I hope the leaders of our vaccine industry and our government foster an environment where our science and industry are recognised for the public good they provide and not for competition.” Both Serum and Bharat Biotech expect to supply vaccines to the government in the coming months.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-438
05-01-2021||India||Govt and farmers make no headway, to meet again on Friday||The government and the protesting farmers continued to stare each other down in their seventh round of negotiations on the three contentious farm laws on Monday, making no headway but agreeing to meet again on Friday. Only too aware of the government’s strategy to try to wear them down — particularly in the face of a severe winter and heavy showers that have drenched their tents at the borders of Delhi and strained their resources — the farmer union leaders said they were even more forceful in their articulation on Monday, their resolve strengthened by the sacrifices the farming community was making to get the laws repealed. “You think we enjoy sitting out in the cold and in the rain for days on end?” a union leader asked, pointing to the growing list of farmers who have died during the protest. Around 60 farmers protesting at Delhi’s borders have lost their lives in the past month. Agriculture minister Narendra Singh Tomar once again tried to peddle amendments as the solution to the farmers’ grievances on the three laws rushed through Parliament in September without consultation, but the farmer leaders refused. They said they represented not just the organisations they led but the 450-plus unions and collectives in the Sanyukta Kisan Morcha and thousands of other farmers across the country. The government’s attempt to discuss the laws clause by clause was firmly rejected by the union leaders, who asserted there was no point going through the exercise again. “Finally, the ministers said they would have further consultations within the government and revert on Friday,” said Kavita Kurunganti of the Mahila Kisan Adhikar Manch. The farmers have lobbed the issue back into the government’s court, making it clear there is no question of going back on their demand for repeal of the laws and insisting there is no point discussing a law on minimum support price without first repealing the three laws. “The only alternative to repeal is repeal,” said Hannan Mollah of the All India Kisan Sabha. With voices from the government ecosystem arguing that repealing the three laws would have a cascading effect on other legislation, the farmer union leaders said this was not a burden for the farming community to carry. “The government should have weighed the consequences of forcing a law on the farming community without discussion,” a union leader said. At the meeting, the union leaders pointed to the Narendra Modi government’s reply to an RTI query seeking details of the consultations held with farmer groups before the enactment of the three laws. The department of agriculture, cooperation and farmers’ welfare — the department in the agriculture ministry that has been liaising with the farmer unions through the protest — had in its reply said it “does not hold any record in this matter”. The government had earlier claimed that consultations had been held with “lakhs of farmers” before enacting the three laws. Tomar had in an online interaction with farmers said that such reforms had been under consideration for long. Law minister Ravi Shankar Prasad had said last month that “a total of 1.37 lakh webinars and trainings were conducted since June 2020 where 92.42 lakh farmers participated”. On Monday, the government sought to soften the union leaders by easily conceding their demand that the meeting begin with a homage to the farmers who have died protesting. But coming as it did a day after Haryana police fired tear gas and used chilli powder to disperse farmers trying to join the protest at Delhi’s borders, the gesture did not cut much ice.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-438
05-01-2021||India||Kerala church jolt to Congress||An influential Church organ in Kerala has alleged that an unofficial alliance between the Congress-led United Democratic Front and a Muslim Right-wing party led to a split in Christian votes in the recent local body polls. The comment in an editorial in Sathyadeepam, mouthpiece of the Ernakulam-Angamaly Archdiocese, jolted the Congress into publicly promising to take note of the concerns and stressing the party’s secular credentials. “The Christian community felt the UDF was losing its secular image with its tie-up with the Welfare Party,” the Malayalam weekly said in its latest issue on Monday. It said this feeling had led to a sizeable division in Christian votes in central and northern Kerala. The UDF’s informal alliance with the Welfare Party of India, political arm of the Right-wing Jamaat-e-Islami, had generated controversy from the outset. While some leaders like state Congress president Mullapally Ramachandran had chosen to deny the arrangement, his party colleague M.M. Hassan, who is believed to have brokered the deal as UDF convener, had admitted to “adjustments”. After the ruling Left Democratic Front won the majority of the local bodies, a blame game began within the UDF and the Congress over the association with the Welfare Party. The Sathyadeepam editorial said the Congress would get “eclipsed” by the Indian Union Muslim League, the second-largest UDF constituent, with P.K. Kunhalikutty’s return to state politics. Kunhalikutty, a Lok Sabha member and IUML general secretary, recently decided to contest the upcoming Assembly elections. “The political observation that the Congress would be completely eclipsed by the IUML with P.K. Kunhalikutty switching back to state politics has also become important,” the editorial said. Senior Congress leader and former spokesperson Pandalam Sudhakaran admitted that such a strong expression of concern was rare from the Church. “It’s a rare expression from the Church. But the Congress has never compromised on its secular credentials and never will,” he told The Telegraph. “We will take these concerns seriously because the Church has historically been our well-wisher and supporter.” Sudhakaran argued that the association with the Welfare Party was only “one of the reasons for the poll setback”, stressing that the unofficial ally’s influence was confined to small pockets in northern Kerala. His party colleague and leader of the Opposition Ramesh Chennithala tried to deflect attention from the Church criticism, which he didn’t refer to, by alleging a secret tie-up between the Left and the BJP. “The CPM forged a secret understanding with the BJP in the local body elections,” he told a news conference in Thiruvananthapuram. “In trying to destroy the Congress and the UDF, the CPM is playing dangerous politics by encouraging the BJP in Kerala.” The Sathyadeepam editorial slammed the BJP too, saying the party’s efforts to portray its Kerala unit as secular had got exposed when it returned to its communal agenda after the elections. “By hanging a ‘Jai Sri Ram’ banner on the Palakkad municipality building, the BJP once again projected its communal agenda and proved that its attempt to present a secular image in Kerala was fake,” it said. After retaining the Palakkad municipality, the BJP workers had unfurled a banner printed with “Jai Sri Ram” on the local body’s building, and another with pictures of Prime Minister Narendra Modi and Union home minister Amit Shah. Several BJP workers were later booked on the charge of trying to destroy communal harmony.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-438
05-01-2021||India||Mutant in 6 Kerala UK returnees||Kerala health minister K.K. Shailaja on Monday confirmed that six UK returnees have tested positive for the mutant strain of Covid-19 in the state. The minister told a media conference late on Monday that they were among the 29 returnees from the UK who had tested positive for Covid. “We just received the confirmation from National Institute of Virology (Pune) that six of the samples have tested positive for the mutant strain detected in the UK,” she said. Two of those who tested positive are from Kozhikode, another two are from Alappuzha, and one each from Kottayam and Kannur. While 11 samples had earlier tested negative for the new strain, the remaining results were expected in a day or two, she said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-438
05-01-2021||India||Social justice ministry objects to IIT no-quota call||The social justice ministry has opposed any exemption to the IITs from having to implement reservation in teacher posts, as recommended in June by a panel headed by IIT Delhi director Ramgopal Rao. The ministry has written to the education ministry asking it to reject the recommendation, arguing that such an exemption would defeat social justice. “The committee had representatives from various ministries dealing with reservation, including the social justice ministry. The panel came out with a unanimous report,” an education ministry official said. “After the report was shared with the ministries again for comments, the social justice ministry opposed any exemptions from reservation.” The education ministry has sent the report to the IIT Council’s standing committee for further study. The government apparently wants to go slow on the recommendation, which has upset Ambedkarites, at a time it is already facing the wrath of farmers. The standing committee, headed by former Isro chairman R. Radhakrishnan, had scheduled an online meeting of members about a month ago, but it was deferred on the government’s instructions. Ground report Among central government-run institutions, only a few elite ones are now exempt from implementing reservations. These include the Tata Institute of Fundamental Research, National Brain Research Centre, North Eastern Indira Gandhi Regional Institute of Health and Medical Sciences, Space Physics Laboratory and the Homi Bhabha National Institute and its 10 centres. Till 2019, the law required the IITs to apply reservation only to the assistant professors’ posts while recruiting teachers to their science and technology departments. In the management, humanities and social science subjects, reservation applied to all categories of faculty posts. But if the IITs felt that the candidates who had applied for the advertised reserved posts were not suitable enough, they de-reserved them a year later and recruited general category candidates. However, the HRD ministry (now education ministry) wrote to all the central educational institutions in August 2019 asking them to implement reservations in all faculty recruitment. Following objections from the IITs, the panel led by the IIT Delhi director was formed in April 2020 to look into the matter. Among its members were the IIT Kanpur director and the registrars of IIT Madras and IIT Bombay. Panel logic According to the panel, there aren’t enough fit candidates to be appointed IIT teachers. It says the Scheduled Castes and Scheduled Tribes make up 6-7 per cent and less than 2 per cent, respectively, of PhD students at the IITs — so they can hardly be expected to fill their 15 and 7.5 per cent quotas in teacher recruitment. The IITs being premier institutions, they must not let the vacant positions remain blocked too long for lack of suitable candidates, the panel has argued. Ambedkarite stand The Ambedkar Periyar Phule Study Circle, representing IIT Bombay students championing social justice, has opposed the panel’s recommendation. In a statement recently, it said RTI applications had revealed that enough reserved category candidates applied for IIT faculty posts but were wrongly kept out, for instance, by being awarded poor scores. “Instead of highlighting wrongs in the existing selection process and recommending ways to correct those, the committee carries their casteist ignorance and leaves the blame on the candidates from reserved categories for not being ‘qualified enough’,” it said. The statement asked the IITs not to de-reserve any unfilled reserved post. Defiant IIMs The IIMs have never implemented reservation in faculty posts, citing a department of personnel order of 1975 that suggested scientific and technical institutions would be outside the ambit of reservation. When the government amended the order in 2008 and got the IITs to implement quotas partially, the IIMs continued resisting. They are still doing so after the August 2019 ministry letter, citing a shortage of suitable candidates. ‘Wilful neglect’ Deepak Malghan, an IIM Bangalore teacher, censured the elite institutes for failing to take adequate measures to ensure the enrolment of more Scheduled Caste, Scheduled Tribe and Other Backward Caste candidates. “The IITs and the IIMs, like research universities around the world, are both producers and consumers of faculty talent. If there are not enough applicants, a large part of the problem is the wilful neglect of diversity and inclusion in their PhD programmes,” he said. “If these institutions had nurtured diversity in their PhD programmes, we would have had a large pool of diverse faculty applicants.” Ambedkarite scholar Anil Wagde demanded a centralised commission like the UPSC for the recruitment of IIT teachers in strict compliance with the reservation rules. “Currently, the recruitment is done by each institution separately. The directors with their caste biases implement reservation in their own way. They consider the institutes their fief,” Wagde said. “IIM Ahmedabad says it wants to encourage the representation of SCs, STs and OBCs, whereas it is mandated by law to implement reservation. So there must be a centralised recruitment body in the pattern of the UPSC, which will uniformly follow reservation.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-438
05-01-2021||India||Students write letter to CJI for farmers||A group of 35 present and former students of the Centre for Human Rights and Duties, Panjab University, on Monday wrote an open letter to Chief Justice of India S.A. Bobde, highlighting the condition of thousands of farmers protesting against the Centre’s new farm laws, braving water cannons, lathis and alleged police brutalities in the severe cold. The letter, copies of which were marked to all the other judges of the Supreme Court, has made the following requests to the CJI: Thousands of farmers are camping at Delhi’s borders with Haryana and Uttar Pradesh in protest against the Farmers’ Produce, Trade and Commerce (Promotion and Facilitation) Act, 2020, the Farmers (Empowerment and Protection) Agreement on Price Assurance and Farm Services Act, 2020, and the Essential Commodities (Amendment) Act, 2020. The letter is likely to be taken up on January 8 along with a batch of petitions already pending with the top court on the issue of the farm laws. While some of the petitioners had sought eviction of the farmers from Delhi’s borders on the ground that it was causing severe hardship to commuters, the other petitioners had sought quashing of the farm laws as being illegal. The letter described the Centre as “deaf”, “indifferent” and “insensitive” towards the farmers’ plight. The farmers in India, who consider their land their “sacrosanct mother”, were feeling so “threatened” that they have no way out but to protest even amid a global pandemic, it added. The farmers were forced to march to Delhi in November-end for their indefinite strike after holding protests for months in their respective states because the Centre did not heed their demand for repeal of the three laws, the letter said. But in Delhi they “were thrashed and walloped” and “it seemed that raising their voice for Fundamental Rights as provided by the supreme law of the nation is a dreadful crime (which it is not)”, it added. “The government and unconscientious, overly-biased media outlets are trying to polarise the whole peaceful movement by associating it with separatism,” the letter said. Multiple photographs of the protesting farmers were attached to the letter. “This is an open letter signed by human rights students, including research scholars, current batch as well as former students,” the signatories wrote, making a “humble request” to the Chief Justice of India for his “immediate intervention” and described it as “a hope of last resort”.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-438
05-01-2021||India||Misleading claims trail of Covid vaccines leads to govt||Misleading claims on the efficacy of Covid-19 vaccines have emerged from top government health officials amid a plea via Twitter by Union health minister Harsh Vardhan urging people not to spread rumours about the vaccines. The government officials, including two doctors, have made claims about both the AstraZeneca-Oxford vaccine manufactured in India by the Pune-based Serum Institute and the home-grown vaccine made by the Hyderabad-based Bharat Biotech that medical experts say are misleading. The experts say it is unclear whether the misleading information reflects poor understanding of vaccine efficacy or signal efforts to douse concerns among some experts that India’s drug regulatory authority has approved the restricted emergency use of two vaccines with limited data. “Some of the claims made are not really evidence-based, but likely reflect wishful thinking,” said Satyajit Rath, a senior medical immunologist and adjunct professor at the Indian Institute of Science Education and Research, Pune. Harsh Vardhan had tweeted on Sunday: “For those spreading rumours, let it be known that the EUA (emergency use authorisation) for Covaxin (the home-grown vaccine) is differently conditional — in clinical trial mode.” Referring to tweets by Congress leaders Jairam Ramesh and Shashi Tharoor about the approval to Covaxin without efficacy data, Harsh Vardhan responded: “Disgraceful for anyone to politicise such a critical issue… don’t try to discredit well laid out science-backed protocols followed for approving #COVID19vaccines. Wake up & realise you are only discrediting yourselves!” ‘Equal’ efficacy Earlier on Sunday, the health ministry itself circulated a video with comments on Covid-19 vaccines by Randeep Guleria, director of the All India Institute of Medical Sciences, New Delhi. In one observation, Guleria is recorded as saying: “The vaccines introduced in India will be as effective as any vaccine developed by other countries.” Rath and other experts point out that the available data from clinical trials should be considered interim and efficacy values could change over time. Yet, even the current values are significantly different for different vaccines — over 94 per cent for the Pfizer and Moderna vaccines, over 90 per cent for Russia’s Sputnik V vaccine, and 62 per cent for the AstraZeneca-Oxford vaccine in one dose regimen and 90 per cent in another dose regimen. Guleria did not respond to a query from this newspaper asking what he had meant by equal efficacy. AstraZeneca ‘70%’ On Sunday, India’s top drug regulator V.G. Somani, announced through a written statement the approval of the AstraZeneca-Oxford vaccine called Covishield, and Covaxin. Somani’s statement puts Covishield’s efficacy at 70 per cent. But researchers say this 70 per cent efficacy is a statistical average obtained by pooling results of two dosing regimens — a two full-dose regimen with 62 per cent efficacy and a half dose followed by a full dose regimen with 90 per cent efficacy. If the regimen approved in India is a two full-dose regimen, a researcher said the 62 per cent efficacy would have been the correct value to cite. Somani did not respond to a query from this newspaper asking the use of the higher efficacy value. Emerging variants Some government researchers, including minister Harsh Vardhan, have claimed the home-grown vaccine is better suited to help fight emerging coronavirus variants. “Covaxin is more likely to work against newer variants like the (fast-spreading) UK variant and any other that may arise due to” genetic changes, minister Vardhan tweeted. But scientists say this is a hypothetical possibility without evidence yet to support it. “I would call this wishful expectation,” Rath said. “The best way to prove this would be to measure Covid-19 infections in people who’ve received the vaccine and show that the proportion of the new variant is significantly smaller in this group than among people who’ve received other vaccines.” However, a top official with the Indian Council of Medical Research said laboratory experiments in cells to determine the efficacy of Covaxin against the UK variant have already begun at the National Institute of Virology, Pune.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-438
05-01-2021||India||Pakistani brides to India govt: Accept us or deport us||Women from Pakistan-occupied Kashmir and Pakistan, married to Kashmiris who have returned to India under a government rehabilitation scheme, on Monday asked the Narendra Modi government to deport them to their country, regretting they are denied rights available to other women here. The women have been protesting for their rights for around a decade and their fresh demand has come as tens of thousands of people who migrated from Pakistan to Jammu and Kashmir in the wake of Partition have been granted domicile and other rights here following the abrogation of Article 370. But these brides, more than half of them from Pakistan-occupied Kashmir which India claims as its own territory, are still waiting for travel documents that would allow them to visit their families across the border. “Our only fault is that we chose to marry Kashmiris but we are being denied nationality… If the government does not want to treat us fairly, so be it, but we are requesting them to deport us back,” Saira Javaid, a Pakistani married to a Kupwara resident, said at a news conference in Srinagar. Saira is among hundreds of “Pakistani brides” whose Kashmiri husbands had crossed to the Pakistani side for arms training or because of alleged harassment, but chose to return under the Omar Abdullah government’s informal “rehabilitation scheme” in 2010. The scheme was available to those who had crossed to the other side of the Line of Control between 1989 and 2009. In 2017, the state government revealed that 377 “former militants”, along with 864 family members, had returned since 2010. They could not return through “designated routes” and came via Bangladesh and Nepal, apparently because India and Pakistan did not reach any agreement on them. Far from being rehabilitated, the families said they were always treated as pariahs and denied the very basic right of meeting their families on the other side of the divide. Uzma Raees, who lived in Muzaffarabad in PoK and whose family is originally from Srinagar, said her father had passed away last month after longing for years to meet her. “My grandfather was originally from Srinagar’s Fateh Kadal locality who migrated to Muzaffarabad (decades back). I am married to a Pulwama resident but ever since we returned to the Valley, I have been fighting for a passport so that I could meet my family. But I never got it, neither for myself nor my little daughter,” Uzma told The Telegraph. “My father died in that grief. I could not see his face and am still in mourning. I fear losing my other family members also and might never be able to see them again.” Taiba Akhtar, from Pakistan’s Abbottabad, said the only time she could see her parents was in 2013 when she had to use a telescope to spy them across the speedy Kishan Ganga stream in border Teetwal area of Kupwara. “My school (where she worked as a teacher) saw I was always upset and arranged an excursion to Teetwal. I informed my family over phone to visit the spot on a particular date. I saw my parents from a distance and I wished to jump into the river so that I could hug them. But others prevented me from doing so,” she said. “If the government treats us as illegal immigrants, there is a law…. They can jail us and then deport us.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-439
05-01-2021||India||Bhitarkanika National Park in Odisha to be shut for  nine days||The Bhitarkanika National Park in Odisha would remain out of bounds for nine days of this month for nature lovers, who long for savouring the warmth of congenial wetland spots, with the annual headcount  exercise of estuarine crocodiles getting underway, officials said. The national park is being shut from January 15 to 23 for the annual census of the estuarine crocodiles. As many as 22 teams have been constituted to count the crocodiles in the creeks, nullahs and rivers within the park and its nearby areas. The park’s closure during the period will ensure the smooth and human interference-free census operation. Any form of human activity would come in the way of the meticulous census of these reptiles. That’s why the curb on tourists’ footfall has been imposed, said the divisional forest officer, Bhitarkanika Mangrove (wildlife) Forest Division, Bikash Ranjan Dash. Bhitarkanika is said to house 70 per cent of India’s estuarine crocodile or saltwater crocodiles, conservation of which was started way back in 1975. The number of saltwater crocodiles, the species which are not found in any other river system in Odisha, as per the latest census, in Bhitarkanika wildlife sanctuary is estimated to be 1,757, he said. Adequate conservation measures by the state forest department have led to a systematic rise in the number of these reptiles over the years.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-439
05-01-2021||India||16% applicants skip CAT ||Over 16 per cent of the candidates who had applied for the Common Admission Test (CAT) for MBA courses in the IIMs and other B-schools did not take the exam, held in November. Around 1.9 lakh of the 2.28 lakh registered candidates sat the test. Some 2.44 lakh had applied in 2019, and nearly 14 per cent had dropped out. Two IIM teachers attributed the decline in the number of applicants and the increase in absenteeism to the Covid-19 scare and the economic crisis that has hamstrung job creation. The 20 IIMs offer close to 5,000 MBA seats, charging between Rs 12 lakh and Rs 23 lakh for a two-year programme. Most of those who enrol have to take an education loan, which they pay back after securing jobs. However, the job situation has been grim this year because of a contraction in the economy, the IIM teachers said. According to private research group Centre for Monitoring Indian Economy, the unemployment rate was over 9 per cent in December. India lost one-third of its white-collar jobs in four months, seeing an estimated 59 lakh white-collar jobs disappear between May and August. The CAT 2020 results, announced on Saturday, showed nine candidates scoring an overall 100 percentile. They are all men and seven of them have an engineering/technology background while the two others have mathematics and management degrees, respectively. Five of these nine are from the IITs and the rest from IIM Indore (IPM programme), BITS Pilani, Thapar Institute of Engineering and Technology and the YMCA Institute of Engineering, a media release said. The IIMs will now release their shortlists based on the CAT 2020 scores, group discussions, interviews and some other parameters. More than 94 other institutions too will use the CAT 2020 scores this year to admit students to their management programmes. IIM Indore was in charge of organising CAT 2020.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-439
05-01-2021||India||1,000 Odisha farmers to join protests in Delhi||Nearly 1,000 farmers from Odisha are ready to leave for Delhi on January 15 to join the ongoing protest against the farm laws and the “cold-blooded murder” of their brethren who have been camping in the open on the outskirts of the national capital in the chilly winter. The Odisha farmers have started a door to door campaign to collect funds to defray the cost of their journey to Delhi. Earlier, more than 50 farmers from Odisha had joined the protests in Delhi and then returned back home to mobilise others for the cause. Naba Nirman Krushak Sangathan convener Akshay Kumar told The Telegraph: “Cold-blooded murder is taking place in Delhi. Farmers are dying in the chilly winter and they are also committing suicide. Is it not cold-blooded murder? But the Centre is yet to take a conclusive decision to repeal the farm laws which are meant to serve only the interests of corporates. They are adopting a thakao (tire out) and bhagao (drive out) policy against the protesters. More and more farmers from different parts of the state are going to join the agitation till the goal is achieved. We all are planning to go to Delhi by bus and other vehicles as there is every chance of being detained en route during a train journey.” “From today (Monday) onwards, camps are being organised in different parts of the state to mobilise the farmer leaders to join the stir. In order to sustain the movement, a campaign was launched today to collect funds from farmers. Farmers willing to go to Delhi will be requested to contribute Rs 2,000 for their 15-day stay in Delhi. Those who are not going to Delhi will be asked to contribute according to their capacity for the thousands of farmers who are protesting in Delhi,” he added. Ahead of the journey to Delhi, nearly 5,000 farmers will congregate here on January 15 to lodge their protest against the farm laws. “Earlier the Naveen Patnaik government had opposed the farmers’ entry into the city. However, this time we are hopeful that the state government will allow them to gather,” he said. Alleging that the Narendra Modi government has usurped the powers of the state on farm related issues, Kumar quoted historian and writer Ramachandra Guha’s article “In poor health” that appeared in this newspaper on Saturday. “As Harish Damodaran has pointed out, since the Constitution clearly places both ‘agriculture’ and ‘markets’ on the state list, on these matters, ‘the Centre can encourage, incentivise, persuade and cajole states. However, it cannot legislate on its own. Nonetheless, through a creative (mis)interpretation of an item in the concurrent list which covers trade and commerce in foodstuffs, the Centre had these bills passed, through the dubious procedure in Parliament described above, and without consulting the states at all,” he said. He added: “We want that MSP should be legalised and farm laws which are in favour of the corporates should be repealed immediately.” All India Kisan Sangharsh Coordination Committee state convener Suresh Panigrahi also quoted Guha’s article and said: “Consider the manner in which the farm bills were ‘passed’ through the Rajya Sabha, with the deputy-chairman of the House, Harivansh, violating all the rules and norms of Parliament by refusing to allow actual voting, and making the bills into law on the basis of his own sense of the House.” “We are against the farm bills. Many farmers are already camping in Delhi and more will join them despite the chilly winter,” he said. Farmer Damburu Soren, who joined the farmers’ rally in Delhi and is now camping near Gwalior with his friends, said: “There is ‘josh’ (excitement) among the farmers in Delhi. Despite the chilly winter, they are quite enthusiastic and upbeat. I met farmers from across the country. They have come from everywhere, from Kerala to Haryana. We the farmers from the eastern part of the country, including Bengal and Jharkhand, are also participating. The number of farmers will swell further after January 15 once the winter becomes less severe.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-439
05-01-2021||India||Farmers' protest is ‘nationalism’ test for BJP says Congress||The Congress on Monday said how the Narendra Modi government deals with the farmers’ movement is the true test of nationalism, and several senior leaders warned the BJP of a heavy political cost if it chose to remain stuck to its “pro-capitalist” stance. Rahul Gandhi has all along taken a strident position against crony capitalism, warning the nation of a new form of slavery under “Ambani-Adani” dominance, and on Monday Chhattisgarh chief minister Bhupesh Baghel took the unusual step of declaring the party’s intent to fight this battle against political rulers as well as corporate houses. Baghel tweeted: “This is not a movement; this is a war. This is a war of farmers who plough the fields… This is a war against the diktats that destroy people and this war will be fought, both against the political masters and the corporate houses.” Congress chief ministers have taken an aggressive stand against the farm laws. While Rajasthan chief minister Ashok Gehlot organised a massive protest in Jaipur on Sunday to show solidarity with the protesting farmers, his Punjab counterpart Amarinder Singh said mobile towers being damaged by the protesters can be erected again but the farmers who have lost their lives will not return. Former finance minister P. Chidambaram tweeted: “My favourite poet Saint Tiruvalluvar wrote 2,000 years ago that ‘If farmers fold their hands, even a person who has renounced life cannot survive’. How true it is today. No government can face the wrath of farmers who believe they are being deceived.” Asked why the Congress was not directly participating in the movement or organising its own protests, a senior party functionary said: “We have held demonstrations throughout the country in solidarity with the agitating farmers after Rahul Gandhi took out a two-day tractor rally in Punjab-Haryana. Though the farmers’ unions themselves insist politicians should not join, we have spared no pains in demonstrating our solidarity and support to their cause” Congress communications chief Randeep Surjewala tweeted before Monday’s meeting between the government and farmer leaders: “Today is the true test of ‘Nationalism’! Will Modi Govt act in ‘national interest’ or ‘crony corporate interest’?” The government refused to accept the demand to repeal the laws, resulting in the meeting ending inconclusively. Surjewala later tweeted: “The Modi government’s arrogance has surpassed the excesses of the British regime in terms of apathy towards the farmers’ struggle. Such an undemocratic and irresponsible government has ruled India for the first time. Modiji, remember, your cruel, intolerant and dictatorial government will not be forgiven by history.” Surjewala also recalled how the Haryana government used brute force to stop the farmers from marching towards Delhi on Sunday night, alleging that the use of water cannons and tear gas reminded the nation of General Dyer. In April 1919, General Dyer had ordered troops to open fire on a large crowd that had gathered at Jallianwala Bagh in Amritsar in defiance of a ban on public meetings, massacring hundreds. Rahul said on Monday that nothing more of the government’s cruelty was left to be seen, tweeting under the hashtag — KisanNahiToDeshNahi (No country without farmers).||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-439
05-01-2021||India||Tax inquiry at Zee offices||The income tax department had a busy day on Monday, knocking on the doors of Zee Group, Larsen & Toubro and Robert Vadra. The tax officers called on the offices of the two companies apparently following inputs from the Goods and Services Tax (GST) department. Vadra, the husband of Congress leader Priyanka Gandhi Vadra, had visitors to record his statement in connection with some property cases. Zee said in a statement: “Officials from the tax department have visited our offices, with certain queries. Our officials are providing all the required information and extending complete cooperation.” L&T, the construction engineering firm, did not offer any comments. A tax official said in New Delhi that “there are no searches or raids but we are carrying out limited verification exercise at the offices of the Larsen and Toubro and Zee Group as we had information about input tax credit… It is basically a follow-up exercise”. Sources said the tax enquiry was linked to Zee Entertainment. Zee Group founder Subhash Chandra is a Rajya Sabha member whose media network is considered friendly towards the Narendra Modi government. However, Zee’s Punjabi news channel has taken a pro-farmer stand on the ongoing agitation. Vadra, after his statement was recorded, told reporters: “I don’t have to hide anything. Whatever they will ask, we will reply. We are here to cooperate. We have answered everything. It was nothing related to benami property. Justice and truth will prevail. I have nothing to hide and worry. I will always cooperate.” The income tax team reached Vadra’s office in east Delhi’s Sukhdev Vihar on Monday afternoon, sources said. He was earlier called by the department but had sought more time, citing the coronavirus.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-439
05-01-2021||India||Nitish, BJP tussle over ministry share||Bihar crucially needs a ministry expansion but the process has hit a hurdle with ruling partners Janata Dal United and BJP differing over their share of berths, sources in the alliance said. They said the BJP, the senior partner with 74 seats, wants more ministers than the JDU which has 43 seats, but chief minister Nitish Kumar insists that the two allies should have an equal number of ministers. Bihar now has only 14 ministers out of a permissible 36 – equivalent to 15 per cent of its 243 Assembly seats — and the expansion was expected immediately after a month’s stretch of “inauspicious” time ended on January 15. Relations between the ruling allies have been uneasy for a while, with the BJP leveraging its numbers to foist on Nitish two deputy chief ministers, replacing Sushil Modi with whom the JDU leader had a comfortable working relationship. Recently in Arunachal, the BJP got several JDU members to defect, increasing the tensions. Sources said Nitish’s assertiveness on ministry berths owed partly to his resentment at the way former ally Lok Janshakti Party was allowed to run a campaign against him ahead of the October-November polls, helping script his demotion from senior to junior partner in the alliance. LJP chief Chirag Paswan put up candidates specifically targeting the JDU. The BJP is widely believed to have propped up and encouraged Chirag although neither acknowledges it. “Nitish has been unable to get over the Chirag episode. It has hurt him and he is no mood to forgive because he believes it cost him several seats, turning him into the BJP’s junior partner,” a senior BJP politician told The Telegraph on the condition of anonymity. “He wants to settle scores by ensuring that the JDU gets an equal number of ministry berths as the BJP.” The BJP politician added that since his party was the bigger partner, it should have more ministers. “While heading previous NDA governments, Nitish had allocated ministry berths to allies on the basis of their strength in the Assembly. He used to showcase this as an example of fairness and transparency. Let’s see if he remembers it now,” he said. JDU secretary-general K.C. Tyagi refused to speak on the subject of his party demanding an equal share of ministry berths with the BJP. Asked when the ministry expansion might happen, he tossed the ball into the BJP’s court. “It’s a very delicate thing. It will happen when the BJP prepares a list of its leaders and talks to the chief minister. We can’t discuss these things,” Tyagi said. “Either the chief minister or Naddaji (BJP national president J.P. Nadda) or the Prime Minister can talk about these things.” State BJP president Sanjay Jaiswal too sidestepped the issue of cabinet expansion and the hurdles before it, saying: “Please leave me out of this; these things are decided by our central leadership.” A shortage of ministers has brought development efforts and decision-making virtually to a standstill since the new government was sworn in on November 16. Several among the 14 ministers hold charge of four to six departments. The JDU has five ministers (after a sixth, Mewalal Chaudhary, had to resign over corruption charges) including Nitish while the BJP has seven. Smaller allies Hindustani Awam Morcha Secular and Vikassheel Insan Party have one each.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-439
