06-01-2021||India||RSS-BJP meet on farm stir, Bengal polls||Top leaders of the Rashtriya Swayamsevak Sangh and the BJP are to discuss the farmer protest and the upcoming Bengal and Assam elections, among other issues, at a three-day co-ordination meeting that started in Gujarat’s Gandhinagar on Tuesday. Although no decision is taken at such meetings, the BJP will get to know the RSS’s views on the new farm laws and take feedback from the ground from a host of Sangh parivar outfits working in different areas. RSS chief Mohan Bhagwat and BJP president J.P. Nadda, along with over 150 delegates drawn from over two dozen Sangh-affiliated outfits, are taking part in the meeting. The biannual meeting, anchored by the RSS that is considered the head of the Sangh family, is held to get feedback, share experiences and discuss key national and regional issues. On the farm laws, the RSS-affiliated Swadeshi Jagran Manch has already suggested several amendments, including a legally guaranteed minimum support price, which the protesting farmers have been demanding. The Narendra Modi government has so far held off the farmers’ key demands. “At the meeting, top leaders of the RSS could give their suggestions to the BJP on how to resolve the crisis,” an RSS leader said. Internally, the RSS attaches a lot of significance to a harmonious relationship between the Hindus and the Sikhs and is learnt to be concerned over the way the farmer protest appears to be turning the Sikhs against the BJP. “The government passed the farm laws in a hurry without wider consultations. There are a lot of flaws,” an RSS leader associated with farmers said. “The government has to fix base or floor prices for different agri-products and make them legally binding or else farmers will be exploited by market forces,” the leader added. This leader claimed that the government so far has been firm that a legal guarantee on MSP would defeat the very purpose of the laws aimed to reform and open up the agri-sector. The other big agenda for discussion during the meeting would be the upcoming Bengal and Assam polls. While the BJP is confident about retaining Assam, the party wants all wings of the Sangh parivar to give their best to win the politically and ideologically significant Bengal. BJP chief Nadda, who visited Bengal recently, is likely to share his feedback and receive “vital inputs” from the Sangh affiliates, sources said. The RSS has been known to mobilise its ground cadres with keen interest when it comes to achieving ideological goals like winning elections in Bengal. At the meeting, the BJP, along with other RSS affiliates, will work out a coordinated strategy on ground mobilisation ahead of the elections. Apart from some issues, the RSS is learnt to be happy with Prime Minister Modi, given the way most ideologically crucial goals such as the construction of the Ram temple in Ayodhya and scrapping of Jammu and Kashmir’s special status under Article 370 have been achieved without any big controversy. Fund raising for the construction of the temple will also be discussed at the meeting. “So, even if the RSS has some misgivings about certain issues like the farm laws, it will not go beyond a point to exert pressure on the Modi government,” an RSS leader said, pointing out that the Sangh has got more than it had expected from the Modi government.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-433
06-01-2021||India||Centre sends teams to Haryana, Kerala amid bird flu scare||The Centre on Wednesday said it has deployed multi-disciplinary teams to avian influenza-affected Alappuzha and Kottayam districts of Kerala, and Panchkula district of Haryana, making them two out of the four states that have confirmed Avian Influenza or bird flu, as lakhs of birds were found dead in the last 10 days. It has also issued advisories to contain further spread of the infection in poultry ducks, crows and migratory birds. In a statement, the Union Ministry of Fisheries, Animal Husbandry and Dairying said that other states have been asked to keep a vigil on any unusual mortality amongst birds. Avian Influenza has been confirmed at 12 epicentres in four states -- Kerala, Rajasthan, Madhya Pradesh and Himachal Pradesh, and thousands of birds have already been culled there. “After confirmation of positive samples from ICAR-NIHSAD (National Institute of High Security Animal Diseases), Avian Influenza has been reported at 12 epicenters,” the ministry said in its statement. “Infection in humans is not yet reported in India though the disease is zoonotic. There is no direct evidence that AI viruses can be transmitted to humans via the consumption of contaminated poultry products,” it said. Of the 12 epicenters, the bird flu has been reported in crows in Baran, Kota, Jhalawar region of Rajasthan as well as Mandsaur, Indore, Malwa areas of Madhya Pradesh. Whereas in Himachal Pradesh, the infection was found in migratory birds in Kangra region and in poultry ducks in Kottayam, Alappuzha (4 epicentres) in Kerala, the ministry said. Over 69,000 birds, mostly ducks, were culled in the districts of Alappuzha and Kottayam to contain the H5N8 strain of bird flu, Kerala Animal Husbandry Minister K Raju said on Wednesday. In Haryana, over four lakh poultry birds have died at farms in Panchkula district in the past 10 days, officials said Tuesday, adding a team from Jalandhar's Regional Disease Diagnosis Laboratory has collected samples. However, the state has not confirmed Avian Influenza yet. The Centre on Wednesday said it has set up a “control room” in New Delhi to keep a watch on the situation and to take stock on a daily basis the preventive and control measures undertaken by the state authorities. According to the reports received from the states, control measures are being taken in Madhya Pradesh and Rajasthan as per the guidelines of National Action Plan of Avian Influenza. In the case of Himachal Pradesh, another advisory was issued on Tuesday to avoid further spread of the infection, the Centre said. As per the action plan on Avian Influenza, the Union ministry has suggested the affected states for strengthening the biosecurity of poultry farms, disinfection of affected areas, proper disposal of dead birds/carcasses, timely collection and submission of samples for confirmation and further surveillance, intensification of surveillance plan as well as the general guidelines for prevention of disease spread from affected birds to poultry and human. The Ministry of Fisheries, Animal Husbandry and Dairying has also suggested the states for coordination with the forest department for reporting any unusual mortality of birds.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-433
06-01-2021||India||Have evidence against Arnab, Republic TV in TRP case, police tell HC||The Mumbai Police on Wednesday told the Bombay High Court that "some evidence" was found against Republic TV and its editor-in-chief Arnab Goswami in the Television Rating Points (TRP) scam case, and therefore, it did not want to continue granting them any protection from any coercive action. However, as the high court adjourned the matter without hearing any arguments during the day, the police agreed to continue its previous assurance of not taking any coercive action till January 15, the next date of hearing in the case. The alleged fake TRP scam was unearthed last year after the Broadcast Audience Research Council (BARC) filed a complaint alleging that certain television channels were rigging their TRP numbers, apparently to generate more revenue from advertisements. On Wednesday, the HC adjourned the matter without hearing any arguments after a Republic TV counsel told the court that senior advocate Harish Salve was unable to appear while the second senior lawyer was stuck due to some medical emergency in family. At this point, Mumbai Police's lawyer Kapil Sibal agreed to refrain from taking any coercive action against the accused till the next date of hearing. "We (Mumbai Police) have found evidence on record through investigation with BARC (Broadcast Audience Research Council) against Republic TV and Arnab Goswami. Milords may record my statement that I (police) do not wish to continue my statement. I (Police) have agreed (not to take any coercive action against the accused) because of this extreme emergency," Sibal said referring to the adjournment. He also told the HC that the police will submit a status report of its probe in the case on the next date of hearing. On December 16 last year, Sibal had submitted in the HC that no coercive action would be taken against Goswami or any other employees of ARG Outlier Media (AOM), which runs Republic TV, till January 6. The AOM had approached the high court last year, seeking, among other things, that the police be restrained from taking coercive action against its employees. During the hearing in December last year, advocate Abad Ponda, who appeared for AOM, had read out from the charge sheet to point out that the police had mentioned in the charge sheet, the owners, managers, and related persons of Republic TV, as suspects in the case. Ponda had said that this could mean that the police could arrest anyone related to the channel and that the same constituted "gross illegality". The HC bench had then asked the state's counsel to take instructions from the police on no coercive action against the employees till further hearing. AOM had filed several pleas and interim applications in the HC urging it to transfer the probe in the case to the Central Bureau of Investigation or any other independent agency. It had also requested the HC to stay the ongoing investigation and restrain the police from taking any coercive action against the petitioners, their employees, or investors.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-434
06-01-2021||India||Modi deserved prime ministership: Pranab in his memoir||The decisive mandate the BJP got in two consecutive general elections in 2014 and 2019 indicated voters' preference for political stability, according to former president Pranab Mukherjee, who said Narendra Modi "earned and achieved" the prime ministership. Mukherjee also said in his memoir that Narendra Modi became prime minister "through popular choice" unlike Manmohan Singh "who was offered the post by Sonia Gandhi". Every general election has its "importance because the issues that are debated during the polls reflect the various views and perceptions of the electorate", Mukherjee wrote in his memoir "The Presidential Years, 2012-2017" which he completed before his death last year. " The 2014 verdict was historic for two reasons. First, after three decades, a contesting political party received a decisive mandate instead of a fractured one," he wrote. The second reason, he said, is that the BJP emerged with a simple majority on its own in the Lok Sabha for the first time and was thus able to form the government, though it still did so by co-opting its allies. "But the real winner was the electorate that came out in large numbers and voted decisively, thus indicating its preference for political stability, which it believed would result in development-oriented politics," the former Congress stalwart and union minister wrote in the book, which was released on Tuesday. Mukherjee said he was also of the belief that people were dejected with coalitions and the behaviour of political parties changing sides for parochial gains. "Coalitions are often formed with the only common agenda of blocking a particular party or individual from coming to power." Comparing Modi with Singh, Mukherjee said the route to prime ministership for the two prime ministers he worked with was very different. Mukherjee, who was the president from July 25, 2012 to July 25, 2017, had worked with both the prime ministers during his tenure. "Dr Singh was offered the post by Sonia Gandhi; she had been chosen as the prime ministerial candidate by the Congress Parliamentary Party and other constituents of the UPA, but she declined the offer," he wrote. "Modi, on the other hand, became PM through popular choice after leading the BJP to a historic victory in 2014. He is a politician to the core and had been named the BJP's prime ministerial candidate as the party went into campaign mode. He was then Gujarat's CM and had built an image that seemed to click with the masses. He has earned and achieved the prime ministership," he added. Mukherjee wrote he had very cordial relations with Prime Minister Modi during his tenure. "However, I did not hesitate to give my advice on matters of policy during our meetings. There were several occasions when he echoed concerns that I had voiced. I also believe that he has managed to grasp the nuances of foreign policy quickly," the book said. Mukherjee's approach to maintaining cordial relations with Modi was rooted in the fact that "I believe in the parliamentary form of government and its principle". On the Congress's performance in the face of Modi's surge in 2014, he wrote, " There is no escaping the fact that the Congress had failed miserably to fulfil people's expectations and aspirations. In fact, after the campaign, when all the formalities were complete, several important Congress leaders and ministers met me at Rashtrapati Bhavan for various reasons. Interestingly, none of them expected a clear majority for either the Congress or the UPA combine." Talking about his advice for decisive mandate in upcoming elections in his Republic Day address in 2014, Mukherjee remarked tongue-in-cheek in his book, published by Rupa Publications, "Of course, people may say that the voters responded to my advice and gave a conclusive mandate in favour of PM Modi to form a government on his own." Mukherjee also wrote that he wasn't sure of the numbers and massive mandate of the BJP before 2014 elections but was impressed seeing the planning and hard work of Modi. "Only Piyush Goyal, the then national treasurer of the party and now a cabinet minister, was confident that the BJP would get no less than 265 seats, and that the number could go up to 280. I didn't and still don't know the reasons for his optimism. However, I took him seriously when he gave me Modi's detailed electioneering schedule, which was not only gruelling but also painstaking," he said. Mukherjee also appreciated Modi for the quick grasp of the nuances of foreign policy. "When Narendra Modi took over as PM, he had absolutely no experience in foreign affairs. As the CM of Gujarat, he had visited some countries, but those visits were limited to engaging for the good of his state and had little to do with domestic or global foreign policies. Foreign policy was, therefore, truly uncharted territory for him," he wrote. "But he did what no PM had attempted before: invite the heads of government/state of SAARC nations to his oath-taking ceremony in 2014 - and this included Pakistan's then PM, Nawaz Sharif. His out-of-the-box initiative took several foreign policy veterans by surprise." PTI GSN||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-434
06-01-2021||India||Steady fall in Covid cases point to herd immunity  ||India could be at a turning point in its life and death battle against Covid-19 with a steady fall in the number of cases combining with the government’s ambitious plans to roll out vaccines at high speed. Virologists say the declining case trajectory may reflect herd immunity taking hold in localised areas of the country. Daily new Covid-19 cases in the country have been riding below 20,000 for a number of days and on Monday stood at 16,504. That’s more than six times below the peak hit on September 16 when fresh cases hit 97,784. It was widely forecast in mid-September that India was about to crack a dismal milestone of a record 100,0000 fresh cases a day. Instead, the number of daily cases began slipping. “You can’t miss the trend. I think we have turned a corner,” says virologist Shahid Jameel. Jameel, director of the Trivedi School of Biosciences at Ashoka University, says encouragement can be drawn from the pandemic’s downward registered case trajectory in India as the number of people testing positive has been dropping despite a string of festivals that could have been super-spreader events. (He notes that the testing methodology has remained unchanged even as the numbers have been falling). Jameel points to the crowds that went shopping in the weeks before Diwali and the rallies and other mass gatherings which took place during the Bihar elections. Then, there have been the farmers’ protests outside Delhi which have brought tens of thousands of demonstrators together and which do not appear to have resulted in mass infections. There may be an element of community herd immunity developing but it is not nationwide, says Jameel. “Herd immunity is not a national concept. It’s applicable to communities and clusters. Some (communities) may have achieved it, others not.” He adds: “Remember (also) that people move in and out of clusters” and that there will continue to be spikes in cases. The government’s decision at the weekend to clear two vaccines for use is crucial to fighting the pandemic, especially now with the emergence of a new fast-spreading virus variant in Britain and South Africa that could change the coronavirus outlook in India and in other parts of the world. It’s reckoned the variant, called B.1.1.7, which has prompted an England-wide lockdown, is anywhere between 50 per cent and 70 per cent more transmissible than D614G, the dominant strain globally. Experts in the field believe the vaccines which have been developed will still work against the new variants. “The vaccines should largely not be affected by one mutation,” says Lipi Thukral, senior scientist, Institute of Genomics and Integrative Biology. But the experts say that the emergence of the more transmissible strain makes the vaccine rollout all the more urgent. Delhi, which has faced three Covid-19 infection waves, reported only 655 cases on Sunday and numbers have stayed below a thousand for three days running. These are the lowest numbers since August. The number of Covid-19-related deaths in Delhi fell to 18 last Thursday and to 23 on Sunday the lowest since early September. In Bangalore, however, larger hospital ICUs are at risk of being swamped by a rising number of Severe Acute Respiratory Infections cases coming in. Kerala, though, remains a national outlier in still reporting rising case numbers. Kerala reported 5,328 cases on Saturday and 4,600 cases and 25 deaths on Sunday. Virologists suggest the reason for the caseload continuing to mount in Kerala is that the state held the pandemic at bay for several months. In many parts of rural India, meanwhile, there are indications that Covid-19 is spreading only in a limited way and that the cases that are happening are relatively mild. “Evidence coming in suggests rural India is only minimally affected,” says Dipyaman Ganguly, principal scientist, Indian Institute of Chemical Biology. No studies have yet been carried out to establish this conclusively, but he notes that people in urban India and those living in rural areas live starkly different lives. Indian experts are generally sanguine about the impact on the country of the new, more transmissible strain. “I don’t see a serious impact from the new strain, the virus is not more virulent,” says Dileep Raman, director and co-founder, CloudPhysician, which offers tele-ICU services. Experts say it may be that the high-speed spread that has taken place in Southeast England is because of people meeting up and also going on shopping expeditions during the pre-Christmas season. About 50 countries including India have banned travel from the UK in the wake of the announcement about the fast-spreading variant. Late last week, the government said 29 people arriving from Britain have tested positive for the variant and are being isolated. But there could be many more as some 33,000 passengers landed at various Indian airports from the UK. All these passengers are being tracked and administered the gold-standard RT-PCR tests. “All control (of the new variant) depends on the methods we know, identifying cases by testing, tracing and isolating to prevent further spread. If that is done well, we may not have a rise in cases,” says Gagandeep Kang, clinical scientist and professor, Department of Gastrointestinal Sciences, Christian Medical College, Vellore. The new variant detected in the UK on December 8 is worrying, say researchers, because the virus mutation is at the point of interface between the virus and the human cells. Says Lipi Thukral: “That’s why it is critical and more studies need to be done to understand how it can impact the virus biology.” The other danger signal from the new mutant is that it appears to have multiple spike protein mutations. “The mutations here in the spike protein have been shown to affect the binding so this needs to be looked at,” says Thukral. India, meanwhile, has become the first country to successfully isolate and culture the UK variant of the virus that causes coronavirus from the clinical specimens collected from UK-returnees, according to the ICMR, the country’s top medical body. But one consequence of developing the vaccines at ultra-high speed is that there are still several questions, including no clear picture yet on how long immunity will last after the second and final injection. Ganguly says that Phase IV trials on the vaccines need to be done in India. A phase 4 trial is done after the drug’s already marketed and available to the general public and its main goal is to assess the drug's performance in real-life scenarios, to study the long-term risks and benefits of using the drug and to discover any rare side-effects. “Our immunological constitution is very different from people abroad. Normally, you will want a Phase IV trial in India,” he says. There is also the worry that the vaccination of huge numbers of people around the globe could prompt the virus to mutate in a fashion that would make the immune system less responsive to the vaccine. However, scientists say that it could take years for these so-called “vaccine escape mutants” to render the current set of vaccines useless.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-434
06-01-2021||India||Amid economic contractions, PM to meet top analysts||Prime Minister Narendra Modi is scheduled to interact with top economists and sectoral experts on Friday to deliberate on measures, which may be included in the upcoming budget for promoting growth, amid uncertainty on multiple fronts caused by Covid-19. The meeting assumes significance as according to the Reserve Bank of India (RBI), India’s economy is projected to contract 7.5 per cent in the current fiscal ending March 31, 2021, while the International Monetary Fund (IMF) and World Bank estimates the contraction at 10.3 per cent and 9.6 per cent, respectively. Government think tank Niti Aayog is responsible for organising the meeting, which will be held virtually, and will be attended by Niti Aayog Vice Chairman Rajiv Kumar and its CEO Amitabh Kant. “The Prime Minister will meet economists on Friday to seek their inputs for the next budget,” a government official, who did not wish to be named, said. The country’s economy recovered faster than expected in the September quarter as a pick-up in manufacturing helped GDP clock a lower contraction of 7.5 per cent and held out hopes for further improvement on better consumer demand. India’s economic growth stood at an estimated 4.2 per cent in 2019-20. The upcoming Union Budget is likely to be presented on February 1, 2021.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-434
06-01-2021||India||Four die due to toxic gas leak at Odisha plant, few others fall ill||At least four workers died on Wednesday after inhaling a toxic gas leaked at Rourkela Steel Plant (RSP) in Odisha of the state-run Steel Authority of India, while a few others fell ill, official sources said. The accident happened at a coal chemical department facility on Wednesday morning, the sources said. The four deceased were identified as Ganesh Chandra Paila (55), Rabindra Sahu (59), Abhimanyu Sah (33) and Bramhananda Panda (51). “The four contractual workers, engaged by a private company, felt unwell at 9 am, following which they were taken to a health facility of the plant and later admitted to the ICU of the Ispat General Hospital where they died,” the RSP officials said. They further elaborated that according to preliminary reports, the workers died after they inhaled carbon monoxide that leaked from the unit, adding that some others, who also fell ill after inhaling the toxic gas, are being treated at the RSP dispensary. “A high-level committee has been formed to inquire into the cause of the incident. The plant is functioning normally,” the RSP officials said. RSP chief executive officer Dipak Chattaraj condoled the demise of four contractual workers and said the authorities will extend all the support to the bereaved families.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-434
06-01-2021||India||SC to hear pleas regarding farm laws and ongoing protest on January 11||The Supreme Court Wednesday said it would hear on January 11 a batch of pleas challenging the new farm laws as also the ones raising issues related to the ongoing farmers' protest at Delhi borders. A bench headed by Chief Justice S A Bobde, which observed that there is no improvement on the ground regarding farmers' protests, was told by the Centre that healthy discussions are going on between the government and farmers over these issues. Attorney General K K Venugopal said there is a good chance that parties may come to a conclusion in the near future and filing of response by the Centre on the pleas challenging the new farm laws might foreclose the negotiations between the farmers and government. Solicitor General Tushar Mehta, while informing the bench that talks are going on between the government and farmers in a healthy atmosphere, said that these matters should not be listed for hearing on January 8. We understand the situation and encourage consultation. We can adjourn the matters on Monday (January 11) if you submit the same due to the ongoing consultation process, the bench said. The top court was hearing a plea challenging the farm laws.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-434
06-01-2021||India||Arnab Goswami granted more time to amend petition||The Bombay High Court on Wednesday granted further time to Republic TV Editor-in-Chief Arnab Goswami to amend his petition and place on record the charge sheet filed against him and two others in a 2018 case of abetment of suicide of an interior designer. Goswami and the two other accused Feroze Shaikh and Nitish Sarda will have to appear before a magistrate court at Alibaug in neighbouring Raigad district of Maharashtra on Thursday, pursuant to the summons issued to them in December 2020. On December 16, 2020, the magistrate's court took cognisance of the charge sheet filed by Alibaug police in the case and directed the three accused to appear before it on January 7 to commit the case to a sessions court. As the charges invoked in the case are punishable for more than seven years, the trial in the case will have to be conducted by a sessions court. In November last year, Goswami filed a petition in the high court, seeking to quash the FIR registered against him by the Alibaug police. He later sought to amend his petition so as to challenge the charge sheet filed by the police. The same was allowed by the HC in December 2020. On Wednesday, advocate Niranjan Mundargi, appearing for Goswami, sought further time to carry out the amendment. "The charge sheet is bulky and is in Marathi. We need to translate it to English and hence, we need some more time to do so," Mundargi said. The court accepted it and posted the petition for hearing on February 11. Advocate Vijay Aggarwal, appearing for accused Nitish Sarda, who has also filed a petition in the HC against the FIR, sought that the court hear his arguments. Aggarwal said the accused persons have been asked to appear before the magistrate's court on Thursday. To this, Justice Shinde said, "So appear there. What is going to happen? The trial is not going to start tomorrow." The court posted Sarda's plea also for hearing on February 11. The three accused were arrested by the Alibaug police on November 4, 2020. It is the police's case that architect and interior designer Anvay Naik committed suicide in May 2018 over alleged non-payment of dues by companies of the accused persons. Goswami in November last year filed a petition in the HC seeking to quash the FIR, and also sought interim bail. The HC on November 9 refused to grant interim bail following whichGoswamiapproached the Supreme Court. The SC on November 11 granted interim bail to Goswami. The police filed the charge sheet in the case last month.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-434
06-01-2021||India||Woman, 50, gangraped, murdered by three in Uttar Pradesh temple||A 50-year-old woman was brutally gangraped and murdered by allegedly three people, including a priest, in the Budaun district of Uttar Pradesh, police said on Wednesday. The police arrested two of them on Tuesday, while all three of the accused have been booked under respective provisions. The brutal attack on the woman took place on Sunday when she had gone to a temple. “They brought her on their own in a vehicle. She was dead when they left her here. The priest and others dropped her at the door and left quickly,” her son was quoted as saying by NDTV. Before family members could ask how she died, the accused left the house saying that she had fallen in a dry well, and her body was pulled out and brought to her home, the son added. He said police were informed on Monday. Senior Superintendent of Police (SSP) Sankalp Sharma said “The post-mortem report confirms rape, and there are injuries in her private parts and a fracture in the leg”. He added that the station house officer of Ughaiti police station has been suspended for laxity in the case. Giving out details, he said, “On Sunday, the 50-year-old woman, who had gone to a temple, was found dead under mysterious circumstances. Family members of the woman have accused the temple mahant and his aides of raping and murdering her.” “Based on this, a case was registered against the accused. Two of the accused persons were arrested on Tuesday night, while the mahant is still absconding,” he added. Four teams have been formed to nab the priest, the SSP said. According to NDTV, a video of the accused priest came into view on Monday, where he claimed that the woman had fallen into a well near the temple and he and a few others had rescued her. “I brought two men to rescue her. We took her out of the well. She was alive. When we dropped her home, she was alive,” he claimed. Congress leader Priyanka Gandhi Vadra hit out at the Yogi Adityanath government, alleging that there was something wrong in the intentions of the Uttar Pradesh administration on the issue of women's security. Tagging a media report, Gandhi tweeted: “In Hathras, the government administration did not listen to the voice of those pleading. The government saved officials and suppressed the victim's voice.” “In Budaun, the police station officer did not listen to the one pleading and did not even examine the place of the incident. There is something wrong in the UP government's intentions on women's security,” she added. Party spokesperson Randeep Singh Surjewala termed the incident “horrific” and “shameful for humanity”. “How many more Nirbhayas? How much more of this monstrosity (haivaniyat)? When will the Adityanath government wake up? Where are our awakened journalists,” he said in a tweet in a hindi. Taking to Twitter, Samajwadi Party said, “Fifty-year-old anganwadi assistant, who had gone to offer prayers at a temple in Budaun, gang-raped and subsequently murdered. Those in power who only make false claims of women security should drown themselves. The guilty should be punished at the earliest, and justice should prevail.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-434
06-01-2021||India||SC agrees to examine Love Jihad laws of UP, Uttarakhand||The Supreme Court on Wednesday agreed to look into the controversial new laws of the Uttar Pradesh and Uttarakhand governments against ‘unlawful’ religious conversions on the pretext of interfaith marriages, and issued notices to both the states. A bench, headed by chief Justice S.A. Bobde however refused to stay the provisions of the laws. The apex court addressed two pleas, filed by advocate Vishal Thakre and others and an NGO ‘Citizen for Justice and Peace’, which have challenged the constitutional validity of the Uttar Pradesh Prohibition of Unlawful Religious Conversion Ordinance, 2020 and the Uttarakhand Freedom of Religion Act, 2018. Initially, the bench was reluctant to hear the pleas and asked the petitioners to approach the Allahabad High Court after Solicitor General Tushar Mehta said that it was already seized. The bench said that this is not the transfer petition where it can transfer to itself all the cases on the law after one of the petitioners said that the issue should be examined by the top court. Senior advocate C.U. Singh, appearing for the NGO, referred to the judgement of Justice (retd) Deepak Gupta and says that similar laws are being made in various states. Singh said some of the provisions under the laws should be stayed as people are being held in the middle of wedding ceremonies. Singh added that the provisions are “oppressive and horrible” in nature and requires prior consent of the government to marry which is absolutely obnoxious. The bench said that it is issuing notice and sought response from both the state governments within four weeks. When Singh insisted for stay of provisions, the CJI said that a stay cannot be sought without hearing the states. “How can it be done,” the bench asked.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-434
06-01-2021||India||Biden urged to ease restrictions on H-1B visa by India-American business group ||A top India-centric American business advocacy group has urged the incoming Biden administration to ease the restrictions on H-1B visas and provide green cards to higher education students with science and mathematics degrees to meet the increasing demand for IT professionals in the country. On December 31, outgoing US President Donald Trump extended a freeze on the most sought-after H-1B visas along with other types of foreign work visas by three months to March 31, affecting a large number of Indian IT professionals who were issued visas by the US government for the fiscal year 2021. President-elect Joe Biden, a Democrat, has promised to lift the suspension on H-1B visas, saying Trump's immigration policies are cruel. "It is more of a legislative issue. We have basically recommended to the Biden administration, one, is ease up the H-1B (visa), but at the same time, every STEM (science, technology, engineering and mathematics) PhD graduating, should be given a Green Card, so that they stay and contribute from day one as a taxpayer and also to the growth of the economy," Mukesh Aghi, president of US-India Strategic and Partnership Forum told PTI in an interview. "That's the position, we still are very supportive of. And I think the sentiment seems to be the same with the Biden administration, said Aghi, based on the interactions he has had with members of the Biden Transition Team. Biden is scheduled to be inaugurated as the 46th US President on January 20. Responding to a question, Aghi said the number of H-1B visas issued every year should be driven by the market demands. At this point of time, the current figure of 65,000 H-1B visas in addition to another 20,000 to those foreign nationals with graduation from a US university is quite inadequate to meet the huge demand of IT professionals in the US, he noted. Currently, there is a shortage of 1 million IT professionals in the US. At the same time, he asserted, there is a need to ensure that the local job environment continues. Supporting the farm laws in India, Aghi said the three new legislation recently enacted are the right thing to do. Today the farmer in India gets 24 cents to a dollar for his produce, he said. In the era of technology, farmers need to have choices to be able to sell their produce to 'mandis' or to be able to sell to other geographies as well. The farm bill provides farmers with such an option, he explained. It is just providing choices and in any economy choices are healthy. At the same time, if somebody is protesting diverse choices, in a peaceful manner, then we support it, he said. But at the end of the day, in an agriculture-based economy, one has to figure out how to double the farmers' income, expand job creation and improve productivity. We strongly believe the farm bill supports that vision. People will object to it, but that's normal in a good democracy, he said. Aghi said the COVID-19 crisis and the current change in administration in the US provide India with an opportunity to look at the Biden administration in a positive manner. The crisis with China has brought to India the message that 'we will not treat you as an equal partner'; sends a message to the leadership in India to look at the Biden Administration in a very, very positive manner, he said. It also sends a message to the Biden Administration that with the current scenario, which is a geopolitical one, India can be a reliable partner; India can stand up to the threat of aggressive China, which no other country has stood up to. Both countries have a common factor here, Aghi said. So, I think the current COVID-19 crisis where India can play a strong role in the vaccine production on producing cheaper generic drugs, not only for the US, but worldwide provides an equal partnership. I think India and the Biden administration will reach out to each other and come with some kind of an understanding early on, rather than waiting on and making sure that there is a win-win partnership here, Aghi said. PTI||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-434
06-01-2021||India||Shashi Tharoor in favour of cancelling R-Day festivities||Congress leader Shashi Tharoor has suggested cancelling the Republic Day festivities after Prime Minister Boris Johnson cancelled his India visit due to the coronavirus situation in the UK, saying getting crowds to cheer the parade as usual would be "irresponsible". Johnson, who was scheduled to attend the Republic Day celebrations in New Delhi as chief guest, has cancelled his visit to India later this month due to the growing health crisis created by the new coronavirus variant in the UK. "Now that @BorisJohnson's visit to India this month has been cancelled due to the COVID Second Wave, & we don't have a Chief Guest on Republic Day, why not go one step farther & cancel the festivities altogether?" Tharoor asked Twitter on Tuesday night. "Getting crowds to cheer the parade, as usual, would be irresponsible," he said. Prime Minister Narendra Modi had a telephonic conversation with Johnson on Tuesday, during which the British leader reiterated his thanks for India's invitation for him as the chief guest of the Republic Day celebrations, but regretted his inability to attend. Johnson's call with Modi came a day after he addressed the nation to announce a new stay-at-home lockdown in the UK as his medical chiefs warned that the National Health Service was under threat of being overwhelmed by the rising infection rates.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-435
06-01-2021||India||Parts of Delhi experience hailstorm as rains continue to pour||Residents in parts of Delhi woke up to the sound of hailstones hitting rooftops and windows, even as sporadic rain continued in the national capital for the fourth consecutive day on Wednesday. The India Meteorological Department (IMD) said parts of South Delhi reported hailstorm around 7:30 am. More rain and hailstorms are predicted during the day, it said. Residents in neighbouring Gurgaon shared video clips of hailstorm there. On Tuesday, the Safdarjung Observatory, which provides representative data for Delhi, recorded 1.3 mm rainfall till 5:30 pm. The weather stations at Palam, Lodhi Road and Ridge recorded 5.3 mm, 0.4 mm and 4.8 mm rainfall, respectively, during the period. The minimum temperature rose to 13.2 degrees Celsius as a result of a cloud cover. The maximum temperature settled at 20.8 degrees Celsius. Clouds trap some of the outgoing infrared radiation and radiate it back downwards, warming the ground. The rains, under the influence of a strong western disturbance, come on the back of a "severe" cold wave that gripped Delhi in the run-up to the New Year. On Friday, the mercury plummeted to 1.1 degrees Celsius, the lowest in 15 years for January, and very dense fog lowered visibility to "zero" metres. On Sunday, there was intense rainfall, thunder and lightning in the city. The Safdarjung Observatory recorded 39.9 mm rainfall between 8:30 am on Saturday and 2:30 pm on Sunday. The western disturbance is causing widespread snowfall in the hills too. Once it withdraws, the mercury will fall again to 4 to 5 degrees Celsius, officials said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-435
06-01-2021||India||More than 18,000 fresh Covid cases, 264 casualties in a day||India's Covid-19 caseload rose to 1,03,74,932 with 18,088 infections being reported in a day, while the recoveries are nearing one crore, according to the Union Health Ministry data updated on Wednesday. The death toll increased to 1,50,114 with 264 people succumbing to the disease in a span of 24 hours, the data updated at 8 am showed. The number of people who have recuperated from the disease surged to 99,97,272 pushing the national recovery rate to 96.36 per cent, while the COVID-19 case fatality rate stands at 1.45 per cent. The COVID-19 active caseload remained below 3 lakh for the 16th consecutive day. There are 2,27,546, active cases of coronavirus infections in the country which comprises 2.19 per cent of the total caseload, the data stated. India's COVID-19 tally had crossed the 20-lakh mark on August 7, 30 lakh on August 23, 40 lakh on September 5 and 50 lakh on September 16.It went past 60 lakh on September 28, 70 lakh on October 11, crossed 80 lakh on October 29, 90 lakh on November 20 and surpassed the one-crore mark on December 19. According to the ICMR, 17,74,63,405 samples have been tested up to January 5 with 9,31,408 samples being tested on Tuesday. The 264 new fatalities include 64 from Maharashtra, 25 from Chhattisgarh, and 24 each from West Bengal and Kerala and 20 from Uttar Pradesh. A total of 1,50,114 deaths have been reported so far in the country including 49,759 from Maharashtra followed by 12,177 from Tamil Nadu, 12,118 from Karnataka, 10,609 from Delhi, 9,841 from West Bengal, 8,433 from Uttar Pradesh, 7,122 from Andhra Pradesh and 5,404 from Punjab. The health ministry stressed that more than 70 per cent of the deaths occurred due to comorbidities. "Our figures are being reconciled with the Indian Council of Medical Research," the ministry said on its website, adding that state-wise distribution of figures is subject to further verification and reconciliation.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-435
06-01-2021||India||More than 12 lakh migratory birds flock to Chilika||The Chilika lake, India’a first Ramsar site (wetlands of international importance) and Unesco world heritage site, continues to be the favourite haunt of migratory birds because of easy availability of food during the winter. The fact came to light during the bird census held in the lake on Tuesday with the active support and participation of the Bombay Natural History Society (BNHS). Though the final results of the count are yet to be officially declared, highly placed sources said that the number of birds in the lake this time would exceed the figure of 11 lakh last year. “The number is likely to be increased as the weather is favourable and there is natural availability of food for birds. It would cross 12 lakh this year. The compilation work is on,” said chief executive of Chilika Development Authority (CDA), Sushant Nanda. Sources maintained that as the number of visitors to the lake has gone down drastically due to the various restrictions imposed because of the corona pandemic and there is almost complete ban on movement of boats, it ensures least possible human intervention and provides a perfect atmosphere for the birds to come to the lake. The migrant birds are coming to the lake from Siberia, Mongolia, China and greater Himalayas. They start their return journey with the onset of summer. As soon as the dawn descends more than 120 people divided into 21 teams move to different parts of the lake spread over 1100sqkm covering three districts of Odisha — Khurda, Ganjam and Puri — for the counting of birds. More than 184 different species of migratory birds come to the lake every year. “All the teams have been provided with walkie talkies, DHF sets, GPS system, binocular and high resolution cameras to count birds. As there is a perfect coordination among the team members, there is least chance of error,” said Nanda. Nanda said, “The birds come here to eat phytoplants, plans and fishes which are plentifully available. More than 375 species of fish are available in the lake.” The authority generally adopts two methods for the counting of birds. “One is simple counting and another is block method. The experts with country made boats go near the site of the birds. Sometimes they count the birds number wise and category wise. If there is a huge number of birds at a single point and it is not possible to count one by one they use binoculars to create a block. With this the experts succeed in counting the number. Later using the computer technology, the team arrived on the exact number of birds to arrive at the lake,” said officials. Compared to birds visiting the lake in 2011 to 2020, the number of birds visiting the place this year would around 3 lakh. “Only 7.91 lakh birds had visited the lake in 2011. Similarly. 8.68 lakh birds visited in 2013, 7.07 lakh in 2014, 7.46 lakh birds in 2015, 7.5 lakh in 2016, 9.24 lakh in 2017, 8.67 lakh in 2018, 10.47 lakh in 2019 and 11.05 lakh in 2020,” said officials. Officials also said that swell in the number of geese birds visiting the lake can be attributed to the availability of open spaces after the eviction of illegal prawn gherries by the Chilika Development Authority. “The evicted areas from the net gharries to the tune of 162 sqkm is not reconstructed and remain free. These areas have become the new place of congregation for the birds and the dolphin population. Areas like Gurubai and Parikuda etc have become Important Bird Areas (IBA) with presence of large numbers of migratory ducks and geese,” said Nanda. “Nalabana water bird sanctuary notified during 1987, spread over 15.53 sqkm has one of the largest congregations of birds inside the lake. Another famous bird spot in the lake is Mangalajodi in the lake. We have to wait till the final compilation of reports on the exact number of birds in the lake.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-435
06-01-2021||India||Supreme Court of India doesn’t stop ‘vanity project’ in Delhi||The Supreme Court has in a split 2:1 majority verdict upheld the Narendra Modi government’s showpiece Central Vista Project that includes a new Parliament building in the capital, saying “the government is entitled to commit errors” as long as constitutional principles are not violated. The court asked the government to set up adequate smog towers (largescale air purifiers) for the proposed construction and make it mandatory for all future major development projects in the country. The dissenting judge, Justice Sanjiv Khanna, slammed the government for not making adequate disclosures and ignoring objections and concerns raised by environmentalists. However, it is the majority verdict of Justices A.M. Khanwilkar and Dinesh Maheshwari that will prevail in the batch of petitions filed by Rajiv Suri and others. The petitioners had contended that the project at massive public cost was ignoring various environmental impact assessments and other statutory norms that caution against arbitrary change in land use and felling of thousands of trees. The Central Vista Project is expected to cost Rs 20,000 crore and cover a 3km to 4km stretch from the Rashtrapati Bhavan to India Gate. It envisages the construction of a triangular Parliament building, with a seating capacity for 900 to 1,200 MPs, by August 2022 when the country will be celebrating its 75th Independence Day. Justice Khanwilkar, who authored the majority judgment, said: “We hold that there is no infirmity in the grant of a ‘no-objection’ by the Central Vista Committee, ‘approval’ by the Delhi Urban Art Commission and ‘prior approval’ by the Heritage Conservation Committee.” The court added: “We further hold that the exercise of power by the central government… is just and proper and thus the modifications regarding change in land use… stands confirmed. The recommendation of environmental clearance… is just, proper and in accordance with law.” In the 611-page judgment, the majority noted: “The government is entitled to commit errors or achieve successes in policy matters as long as constitutional principles are not violated in the process. It is not the court’s concern to enquire into the priorities of an elected government. “…Public participation is not to supplant the discretion of the government or to retard the development work. It is only for inviting constructive suggestions/objections from all stakeholders for effective implementation of the policy of the government, to subserve public interest.” The bench noted that in the present case, the petitioners wanted the court to venture into territories that are way beyond the contemplated powers of a constitutional court. “We are compelled to wonder if we, in the absence of a legal mandate, can dictate the government to desist from spending money on one project and instead use it for something else, or if we can ask the government to run their offices only from areas decided by this court, or if we can question the wisdom of the government in focusing on a particular direction of development.” The bench added: “In light of the settled law, we should be loath to venture into these areas. We need to say this because in the recent past, the route of public/social interest litigation is being increasingly invoked to call upon the court to examine pure concerns of policy and sorts of generalised grievances against the system.” The court said the petitioners, despite their best efforts, had not been able to demonstrate a case of deprivation of life or personal liberty of any individual on account of any of the impugned executive actions. Taking note of the rising pollution problem across the country, the court asked the Centre to set up smog towers of adequate capacity and use smog guns at the construction site. The court called upon the environment ministry to “consider issuing similar general directions regarding installation of adequate capacity of smog towers as an integral part in all future major development projects whilst granting development permissions, particularly in cities with bad track record of air quality — be it relating to government buildings, townships or other private projects of similar scale and magnitude, including the use of smog guns during construction.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-435
06-01-2021||India||Adanis halt ad featuring Ganguly promoting Fortune rice bran oil for a healthy heart||The Adanis are temporarily halting an advertisement in which Sourav Ganguly promotes Fortune rice bran cooking oil for a healthy heart. The decision came after Sourav suffered a mild heart attack and it coincided with barbs at the endorsement on social media. Angshu Mallick, deputy CEO of Adani Wilmar, said in a statement that the company had not dropped Sourav as the brand ambassador of Fortune rice bran cooking oil. “We shall continue to work with Sourav and he will continue to be our brand ambassador. We have only taken a temporary break in our TV commercial till we again sit with Sourav and take things forward. This is a very unfortunate incident and can happen with anyone,” he said. “Recently, we heard about a senior IT executive who collapsed on the treadmill while exercising. Does that mean treadmill is bad?” Mallick asked. Sourav was appointed the brand ambassador in January last year and Ogilvy & Mather was the creative agency for the brand. Mallick defended rice bran oil. “Rice bran oil is one of the world’s most healthy oils. It contains natural antioxidants. Rice bran oil is not a medicine but only a cooking oil. There are several factors which affect heart ailments, including dietary and hereditary issues,” he added.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-435
06-01-2021||India||Farmers allege Centre of jeopardising India’s democracy||The Narendra Modi government has jeopardised not just the farming community and India’s food security but also the country’s democracy, farmer leaders said on Tuesday, accusing it of following Pakistan’s example of using container trucks to block off protesters. Haryana police have positioned cargo containers on the road in Rewari to cut off protesters who had broken through the barricades near the state’s border with Rajasthan on December 31 and were headed to Delhi, Rajneet Singh Raju of the Grameen Kisan Mazdoor Samiti, Ganganagar, said at the daily news conference at the Singhu border. Trucks ferrying food and firewood for the group in Rewari were being stopped, he said. Tear gas shells were also fired at the farmers, he added. Raju likened the police action to the handling of protests in Pakistan, where use of container trucks to isolate protesters is routine. “If this is the way the government is behaving in a democracy, then it shows that democracy is also in danger. After all, we have the constitutional right to protest peacefully,” Raju said. “Independent India has never seen such a huge and long protest that has been so peaceful,” he underlined. Yudhveer Singh of the Bharatiya Kisan Union said it was the Prime Minister’s arrogance that was preventing a resolution and added that the farmers would fight this. The Sanyukta Kisan Morcha, under whose banner the farmers are protesting, said they were going ahead with their plan to intensify their agitation. The tractor rally planned for Wednesday has been rescheduled to Thursday in view of the rains. The rally is being planned as a dress rehearsal for the Kisan Republic Day Parade. Farmer leaders from Haryana have decided to follow the Punjab example and appealed to all families to send at least one member to participate in the farmers’ parade on January 26. All villages are being asked to send 10 tractors to join the parade, Joginder Singh Nain of the BKU (Nain) said. “From the day the farm ordinances were promulgated in June, we have been asking for repeal and yet it took the government seven months and seven rounds of talks to acknowledge that we are serious about our demand; that we will not settle for anything less than repeal,” said Yogendra Yadav of the Jai Kisan Andolan, a constituent of the Morcha. On Tuesday, BJP leaders Surjit Jyani and Harjit Grewal were quoted by PTI as saying after a meeting with Prime Minister Modi that the farmers should stop being adamant about repeal of the three laws. They also alleged that “Maoists have entered the agitation” and were not allowing a resolution. As with previous such statements by BJP leaders trying to discredit the protest, no proof was offered. Farmer leader Raju said at the media conference that efforts were being made by troublemakers to infiltrate the protest sites. A dozen such men have been handed over to the police, farmers said. Philanthropist and founder of Khalsa Aid, Ravinder Singh, urged the Prime Minister to treat this as a humanitarian issue and not a political one. “I urge @narendramodi to personally intervene and have open dialogue with the #Farmers! Every farmer deserves a secure future and every government needs to provide this security! Treat this as a humanitarian issue and not a political one! @PMOIndia.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-435
06-01-2021||India||Health ministry contradicts Serum Institute's claim of vaccine export ban||India has not banned the export of Covid-19 vaccines, the Union health secretary said on Tuesday, contradicting a claim by the head of the Serum Institute that the government would not allow exports for several months. The fresh flank was opened on a day a joint statement sought to suggest that a truce has been called overnight after an unseemly and public corporate spat over the vaccines. “The Union government has not banned the export of any of the Covid-19 vaccines — that is something that should be absolutely clear,” health secretary Rajesh Bhushan said, adding that none of the government agencies that could hypothetically do this had initiated any such move. The Serum Institute’s chief executive officer, Adar Poonawala, had told the Associated Press on Sunday that India would not allow the export of the AstraZeneca-Oxford vaccine manufactured in India by Serum and exports would not begin until March or April. Poonawala’s claim had stirred concerns because his company — the world’s largest vaccine maker — is bound to supply half the Covid-19 vaccine doses it produces to poor countries worldwide through Covax, an initiative by international health agencies to ensure equitable access to Covid-19 vaccines. The Associated Press had quoted Poonawala as saying Serum plans to give 200 million to 300 million doses of the vaccine to Covax by December 2021, balancing distribution of vaccines between India and Covax. A member of the national Covid-19 task force told The Telegraph it was unclear why Poonawala had claimed there was an export ban. Health secretary Bhushan, contesting the claim, said: “We should be on guard when such misinformation is sought to be spread.” Another task force member who is also guiding the vaccination strategy had told this newspaper that there would be no private sales in the early months of the government’s immunisation campaign, but a decision on sales in the private market would need to be taken “at some point”. Bhushan referred to a statement jointly released by the Serum Institute and Bharat Biotech on Tuesday pledging their vaccines to India and the world. The Hyderabad-based Bharat Biotech has made an Indian vaccine that, like the AstraZeneca-Oxford vaccine, has received approval from regulators for restricted emergency use in India. In their joint statement, the two companies which had appeared to question the credentials of the other’s product, said they had a “combined intent to develop, manufacture, and supply the Covid-19 vaccines for India and globally”. “Both our companies are fully engaged in this activity and consider it our duty to the nation and the world at large to ensure a smooth rollout of the vaccines,” the statement signed by Poonawala and Bharat Biotech head Krishna Ella read. Poonawala had on Sunday told a television channel that only three vaccines — from Pfizer, Moderna and AstraZeneca — had been proven as effective, the others had thus far been shown as safe as water. His remarks had prompted Ella on Monday to question the quality and quantity of trial data on the AstraZeneca vaccine. Their comments on the other’s vaccine had stirred worry among sections of scientists who said such remarks threatened to erode the public’s faith in the vaccines. “Their utterances give an impression to the public that neither vaccine is worth taking — this is really unfortunate,” said Shahid Jameel, a senior virologist and director of the Trivedi School of Biosciences, Ashoka University, Sonipat (Haryana).||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-435
06-01-2021||India||Vista: dissent judge alleges govt of ignoring statutory provisions||Justice Sanjiv Khanna, the dissenting judge in the Central Vista case, on Tuesday quashed the Centre’s gazette notification for the construction of the project, saying several statutory provisions such as “change of land use” and “environmental clearance” were ignored by the government despite massive public objections. Although the majority verdict by Justices A.M. Khanwilkar and Dinesh Maheshwari has upheld the construction of the Rs 20,000-crore Central Vista project, Justice Khanna’s stinging rebuke is an embarrassment for the Centre as the dissenting judge has slammed it for lack of transparency. “Citizens’ right to know and the government’s duty to inform are embedded in the democratic form of governance as well as the fundamental right to freedom of speech and expression. Transparency and receptiveness are two key propellants as even the most competent and honest decision-makers require information regarding the needs of the constituency as well as feedback on how the extant policies and decisions are operating in practice. “This requires free flow of information in both directions. When information is withheld/denied, suspicion and doubt gain ground and the fringe and vested interest groups take advantage. This may result in social volatility,” Justice Khanna noted. The dissenting judge, however, said it did not mean that consultation should be open-ended and indefinite, or the government must release all information, as disclosure of certain information may violate the right to privacy of individuals, cause breach of national security and impinge on confidentiality. “Information may be abridged or even denied for larger public interest. This implies that there should be good grounds and justification to withhold information. Boundaries of what constitutes legitimate withholding can at times be debatable; but in the present case, there is no contestation between transparency and the right to know on the one hand, and the concerns of privacy, confidentiality and national security on the other,” Justice Khanna said. The judge said “it would be hypothetical and incongruous to accept that the L&DO (land and development officer) had applied its mind to the objections and suggestions even before the public hearing, and therefore the court should assume that the central government had considered the objections and suggestions”. The government had argued that the court must assume that the Centre had addressed the concerns although it could not place the relevant materials in the public domain. “The final decision must be conscientiously and objectively taken by the competent authority post the hearing. The central government has not placed on record even a single document or minutes to show that the objections and suggestions were considered by the central government…,” Justice Khanna said. The dissenting judge noted that the Board of Enquiry for Heritage (BoEH), apart from noting the submissions, objections and suggestions of those who appeared at the hearing, did not deliberate or record specific reasons. Having interacted with the public, the BoEH did find merit in the objections regarding the absence and lack of information in the public domain and took specific note of the public anxiety and “misgivings”. Justice Khanna noted that the minutes of the BoEH meetings were an “incontrovertible acknowledgement” of the fact that regarding the present and proposed land use, “no plans, layouts, drawings etc., or written matter explanatory or of descriptive nature to illustrate or explain the proposed changes and project were put in the public domain”. “The BoEH had therefore thoughtfully recommended the need to address lack of transparency concern by all departments”, which was not considered by the government, Justice Khanna said. According to the dissenting judgment, “intelligible and adequate disclosure of information” in the context of the Development Act and the Development Rules means and refers to the degree to which information should be available to the public to enable them to have an informed voice in the deliberative decision-making legislative exercise before a final decision is taken on the proposals. “In the present matter this lapse and failure was acknowledged and accepted by the BoEH, which had recommended disclosure and furnishing of details,” Justice Khanna noted. “Intelligible and adequate disclosure was critical given the nature of the proposals which would affect the iconic and historical Central Vista. The citizenry clearly had the right to know intelligible details explaining the proposal to participate and express themselves, give suggestions and submit objections. “The proposed changes, unlike policy decisions, would be largely irreversible. Physical construction or demolition once done, cannot be undone or corrected for future by repeal, amendment or modification as in case of most policies or even enactments,” Justice Khanna said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-435
06-01-2021||India||Central Vista an autocrat’s whims: Congress||The Congress on Tuesday asserted that the Central Vista construction and beautification project in the capital was not a “legalistic” issue but a case of “misplaced priorities of a whimsical autocrat”. The Opposition party iterated its position that precious national resources should not be wasted on a “vanity” project at a time when the country was grappling with its first-ever economic recession and a pandemic that has scarred the world. After the Supreme Court cleared the project on legal grounds on Tuesday, Congress communications chief Randeep Surjewala tweeted: “The Rs 13,450-crore Central Vista project is not a legalistic issue but a case of misplaced priorities of a whimsical autocrat seeking to etch his name in the annals of history with cement & mortar. Ironical that in times of the corona pandemic and economic recession, Delhi has Rs 14,000 crore for Central Vista & Rs 8,000 crore for buying aircraft for the Prime Minister.” Surjewala added: “But the same BJP government imposes cuts of Rs 37,530 crore in allowances of 113 lakh armed forces & central government employees & pensioners. The Prime Minister must not forget that he has imposed cuts of Rs 11,000 crore on 15 lakh soldiers & 26 lakh military pensioners. And the same BJP government at the Centre has no time to provide ‘heated tents and equipment’ to our soldiers braving brazen Chinese incursions in Ladakh.” The Congress’s deputy leader in the Rajya Sabha, Anand Sharma, said in a series of tweets: “We are living in strange times. No relief for the migrant labour, no justice for India’s farmers fighting for their rights in bitter cold, pouring rain, tear gas and braving lathis. “As we approach Republic Day, need to reflect on the state of the republic. Saddened by the Supreme Court endorsement of the government’s misplaced priorities during the pandemic and clearing the Central Vista project — an unnecessary and colossal waste of public money. Grand buildings of brick and mortar do not strengthen parliamentary democracy but only a healthy functioning Parliament that upholds the Constitution and defends citizens’ rights.” The Congress has for the past few months repeatedly raised objections to the project, arguing that the priority should be to provide financial assistance to the poor, migrant workers, and small and medium enterprises that have been devastated by the lockdown. Along with economists and independent observers, the Congress has demanded a cash inflow into the system to rev up economic activity at a time recovery has been erratic and slow. Congress president Sonia Gandhi had written to Prime Minister Narendra Modi a few months ago, demanding suspension of the Central Vista project, along with other austerity measures to cut wasteful expenditure. The letter was in response to the Prime Minister’s telephone conversation with her in which he sought suggestions on how to deal with the coronavirus pandemic and the resultant financial stress. Sonia had written: “Suspend the Rs 20,000-crore Central Vista beautification and construction project forthwith. At a time like this, such an outlay seems self-indulgent to say the least. I am certain that Parliament can function comfortably within the existing historical buildings.” “There is no urgent or pressing requirement that cannot be postponed until this crisis is contained. This sum could instead be allocated towards constructing new hospital infrastructure and diagnostics along with equipping our frontline workers with personal protection equipment (PPEs) and better facilities.” Although her suggestions fell on deaf ears, Sonia had tried to exert moral pressure on Modi by saying: “Every single Indian has made great personal sacrifices to fight this disease. They have complied with every suggestion, instruction and decision taken by your office and the central government. It is time that the legislature and the executive reciprocate this trust and good faith.” The Modi government has even suspended MPLAD (MP local area development) funds for two years in view of a financial crunch, triggering widespread discontent among parliamentarians as it has affected work in their constituencies. After the groundbreaking ceremony for the new Parliament building under the Central Vista project a few days ago, Surjewala had said: “Dear Prime Minister, Parliament is nt mortar & stones. It envisions democracy, it imbibes the Constitution, it is economic-political-social equality. It is compassion & camaraderie. It is the aspirations of 130 crore Indians. What would a building built upon trampling of these values represent? “Modi ji, history will record that when lakhs of farmers were fighting on the streets for their rights, you were building a palace for yourself in the garb of the Central Vista project. In a democracy, power is not for fulfilling personal whims but a medium of public service and welfare.” Former Union minister Jairam Ramesh had commented on the government’s rigidity in proceeding with the project despite difficult times, saying: “It is not just insensitive but obscene to be thinking of the new Central Vista project now. It should be put on hold indefinitely. There are more pressing uses for the thousands of crores of rupees that will be spent to satisfy one man’s ego.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-435
06-01-2021||India||All you need to know about Covid-19 vaccination drive||India’s Covid-19 vaccination campaign that seeks to initially immunise healthcare workers, frontline workers, people above 50 years and those below 50 with underlying chronic health disorders could begin next week, the health ministry said on Tuesday. “Based on feedback from the dry run (last week), we’re fully prepared to introduce Covid-19 vaccines within 10 days of the emergency use authorisation (by drug regulators),” health secretary Rajesh Bhushan said. The regulatory authority had approved the vaccine on January 3. The government hopes to immunise around 300 million people from these priority groups over the next seven months. The Telegraph asked health officials and experts guiding the vaccination strategy about the steps towards immunisation. A national expert panel has identified four priority groups based on two risks — occupational risk to the Covid-19 infection and the risk of severe Covid-19 because of either age or underlying health disorders. The Centre, in consultation with states, has estimated that the numbers of beneficiaries are 10 million healthcare workers, 20 million frontline workers and 270 million people aged above 50 years or those below 50 with health disorders. The Centre has yet to announce details of the vaccination schedules but has indicated that the vaccines will be offered first to healthcare workers, frontline workers and people above 50 years, followed by those below 50 years with health disorders. The priority group of above 50 years may be further subdivided into those above 60 years to be vaccinated first, and then those between 50 and 60 years. The government for now has the option of two vaccines — the AstraZeneca-Oxford vaccine called Covishield and made by the Serum Institute in India, and Covaxin made by Bharat Biotech. The government has not yet indicated how much of which vaccine it would use where. Immunisation involves two doses and both doses have to be the same vaccine. Not at the moment. In the early months of the campaign, the vaccines will be available only through the government. However, vaccine expert panel members have indicated that the vaccines could be available in the private market, possibly towards the end of the government campaign. Much would depend on the number of vaccines and doses available. To vaccinate 300 million people, the campaign would require 600 million doses. The government has not specified its inventory. But the Serum Institute has said it has stockpiled 50 million and could supply 100 million doses every month from February or March. Bharat Biotech has said it will have 20 million doses by February and could provide up to 500 million doses during the year. Lists of healthcare workers and frontline workers have already been “populated” on a digital platform called Covid-19 Vaccine Intelligence Network. Members of the two other priority groups would need to register themselves as beneficiaries to receive the vaccines. The health ministry is expected to provide details of this registration process in the coming days. An expert medical panel is expected to recommend clinical criteria — quantified thresholds for high blood pressure, blood sugar, kidney disease, lung disease, cardiovascular disease, or cancer — that would determine whether they are eligible for the immunisation. The criteria would seek to ensure that all people at high risk of severe Covid-19 would get immunised. The vaccine is voluntary, but it is advisable to take the complete vaccine schedule to protect ourselves and near and dear ones and co-workers. The eligible beneficiaries would be informed through the registered mobile number about the health facility where the vaccination will be provided and the time. After registration, the beneficiary would receive an SMS on the mobile number specifying the date, time and place for vaccination. Driving licence, bank or post-office passbook, voter ID card, PAN card, MGNREGA card, passport, pension document, service identity card issued by central or state governments. A photo ID would be mandatory for the registration and at the vaccination site. People with active Covid-19 or symptomatic illness should defer vaccination for at least 14 days after the symptoms. All beneficiaries irrespective of past history of the infection should opt for the vaccine as it is expected to bolster the immune response against future infections. After the vaccination, beneficiaries would be expected to remain at the vaccination site for observations for 30 minutes. This is important because in the event of a rare severe allergic reaction, they would receive prompt treatment. After the vaccination, some people may experience common side effects such as mild fever, pain at the site of the injection or body ache. Antibodies are expected to emerge around two weeks after the second dose of the vaccine.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-436
06-01-2021||India||Hilly Sikkim seeks small vehicles to carry vaccine ||Sikkim government has urged the Centre to provide smaller refrigerated vehicles to transport Covid-19 vaccines — as and when they are made available — since bigger vehicles cannot reach every nook and cranny of the Himalayan state. Pempa T Bhutia, the director general-cum-secretary of the Sikkim health department, said, in the past, the Centre had provided huge vaccine-carrier vans that were not able to negotiate the twists and turns of the roads in Sikkim. “This time, we have urged the government of India to give us five Boleros to carry the vaccines since smaller vehicles can reach anywhere. If the Centre expresses its inability to provide smaller vehicles, the government of Sikkim has already committed to providing them,” he said. Bhutia, who has been helming Sikkim’s fight against Covid-19, has said the state is adequately equipped to store and administer Covid vaccines, once available. “We had established storage facilities like ice-lined refrigerators during the HPV (human papillomavirus) vaccination drive that we can make use for Covid vaccination,” he said. The health secretary said unlike the pulse polio drive where health workers used to administer drops at the homes of the recipients, the Covid vaccination drive would require setting up of booths at different places to administer the jabs. “Such booths are already in place and we are confident of starting the vaccination drive from very day the vaccines are made available to us,” he said. According to the directive of the Centre, the inoculation drive would be carried out in a phase-wise manner. “The first to be covered will be the health workers, who number about 9,000 in our state, followed by between 14,000 and 15,000 frontline workers. Thereafter, those above 50 years of age and persons with comorbidities will be covered,” he added. Till Monday, the state had recorded 5,221 cases of coronavirus with 129 deaths. Sikkim was the last state in the country to be afflicted by Covid. It was almost four months after the first case was reported in Kerala in late January, 2020.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-436
06-01-2021||India||Glare on Kerala journalism student bail rejection ||The cancellation of bail of a journalism student accused of Maoist links has come in for scrutiny from a senior Supreme Court lawyer who found the judgment of Kerala High Court a “big blow to liberty jurisprudence”. Senior lawyer Kaleeswaram Raj made the remark on Monday’s high court order cancelling the bail of Thwaha Fasal, 23, in which the division bench of Justices A. Hariprasad and K. Haripal observed that “individual rights should subserve the national interest”. The court, however, did not cancel the bail of first accused Allan Shuaib, 20, a law student, considering mitigating circumstances like his young age and health issues for which he is under treatment. Students of Kannur University, the two were arrested from Kozhikode on November 1, 2019, for alleged links with the proscribed CPI (Maoist). The Left Democratic Front government of Kerala had drawn severe flak from rights organisations and writers for referring the case to the National Investigation Agency that slapped provisions of the Unlawful Activities (Prevention) Act, 1967, on the two youngsters who languished in prison for more than 10 months before being granted bail in September 2020. In considering an appeal filed by the Centre, the division bench found fault with the NIA special judge’s decision to grant bail after the accused argued that there was no evidence against their alleged links with Maoists. “The principle that bail is the rule and jail the exception has no application in such a case, especially when the offences under chapter IV and VI of the Act are alleged against the accused,” said the high court citing the UAPA. Both UAPA chapters highlighted by the bench relates to terrorist activities. But Raj noted that the court had already stated there was no evidence against the two accused. “Even while stating that ‘the prosecution could not prove that the respondents are members of an unlawful association’ the court found fault with the special judge for examining the materials on record for granting bail to the accused, that too after about 10 months of incarceration. This is absolutely wrong,” he said. “The fact remains that the youngsters were enjoying freedom that did not annoy anyone. This ought to have been taken into consideration while dealing with the appeal filed by the Centre. The cancellation of bail should rest on stringent test and justifiable reasons, which the high court judgment does not reflect,” said Raj. “The court has mechanically applied the draconian provisions of UAPA like Sections 13, 38, 39 dealing with offences and punishment and Section 43D prohibiting bail,” he observed. “The high court bench blamed the special judge for allegedly acting like a court of record and for referring to the names of the Supreme Court judges. There is no law that prohibits judges of the subordinate judiciary from referring to the names of judges of the constitutional courts,” Raj said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-436
06-01-2021||India||Student suicide over school fee ||A 16-year-old Dalit girl in Uttar Pradesh died by suicide after being allegedly disallowed from writing her exam as her labourer father, who has had hardly any work during the pandemic, failed to deposit three months’ advance school fees. Sanjana Kumari, a student of Class XII at Vidya Mandir Inter College School in Banda district, was found hanging from the ceiling fan of her home on Monday evening. “She had written two papers last week but the office staff on Monday asked her to go back home when she went for the third paper of the internal semester examination,” Sanjana’s father Anant Kumar told reporters. Anil Dwivedi, the school principal, denied the allegations. “We don’t disallow any student from appearing in internal examinations on the ground of non-payment of fees,” he said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-436
