07-01-2021||India||Covid-19: Health Secretary writes to Maharashtra, Kerala, Chhattisgarh and Bengal on rising cases ||The Union Health Secretary wrote to the Maharashtra, Kerala, Chhattisgarh and Bengal governments on Thursday to underline the need for "strict vigil" and "prompt action" to arrest the recent spike in coronavirus cases in each of the states. These four states account for 59 per cent of all active Covid cases in the country, the Health Secretary, Rajesh Bhushan, said in his letter. The state governments were also warned against allowing testing rates to drop - particularly in light of the spread of a mutated (and considerably more infectious) strain of the virus - and to aggressively implement the 'Test-Track-Treat' strategy deployed by other states. Mr Bhushan also reminded state authorities to urge people to wear face masks, maintain social distancing and follow all other Covid-appropriate behaviour. The letter comes after Health Minister Dr Harsh Vardhan singled out three of the above four states - Kerala, Chhattisgarh and Maharashtra - and said a surge in cases served as a warning that the war against the novel coronavirus is far from over despite the presence of multiple vaccines. "Maharashtra, Kerala and Chhattisgarh have seen a sudden spike in coronavirus cases recently. This gives us a warning that we shouldn't forget precautions and (must) continue our fight against COVID-19," Dr Harsh Vardhan told news agency ANI earlier today. Maharashtra remains the worst-affected state with around 52,000 active cases and nearly 50,000 deaths linked to the virus. Chhattisgarh and Bengal have around 9,000 active cases each; Bengal has reported nearly 10,000 deaths while Chhattisgarh has recorded around 3,500 so far. Kerala has seen an average of over 5,000 new cases per day in the past week. Maharashtra has seen over 3,700 in the same period, while Chhattisgarh saw an average of 1,006 and Bengal 908. Kerala has also seen a worrying surge in infections, with active cases shooting up past 65,000 this morning. On Monday the southern state also reported its first case of the UK strain of the virus - six have been detected so far. Across India more than 70 cases of the new strain have been reported so far. Overall India has 2,29 lakh active cases and has reported over 1.5 lakh deaths since the pandemic began in December 2019. Dr Vardhan has said the government is in the final stages of vaccine roll-out and that around 30 crore people will be injected in the first phase. The government has already conducted one national dry run to proof the vaccine delivery system and a second will be held Friday.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-432
07-01-2021||India||JEE-Advanced exam on July 3, says Education Minister||The JEE-Advanced test for admission to Indian Institutes of Technology will be conducted on July 3, Union Education Minister Ramesh Pokhriyal 'Nishank' announced on Thursday. The relaxation in the eligibility criterion pertaining to class 12 marks will be offered this year too, he said. "JEE-Advanced will be conducted by IIT Kharagpur on July 3. The relaxation in admission requirement of 75 per cent marks in class 12 which was announced last year in view of Covid-19 pandemic will be offered this year as well," Nishank said. For admissions to IITs, apart from qualifying the Joint Entrance Examination (JEE)-Advanced, the candidates are required to secure either a minimum 75 per cent marks in class 12 board exams or rank among the top 20 percentile in their qualifying examinations. While JEE-Mains is conducted for admission to engineering colleges across the country, it is considered as a qualifying test for JEE-Advanced. Last week, the minister had announced that the Central Board of Secondary Education (CBSE) will hold the examinations for Classes X and XII students in May-June, almost two months behind the usual schedule. "The board exams for class 10 and 12 will be conducted from May 4 to June 10. Schools will be allowed to conduct practical exams from March 1. Date sheet for both the classes will be issued soon. The results will be declared by July 15," Pokhriyal had announced.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-432
07-01-2021||India||GDP to contract by 7.7 per cent in 2020-21, says NSO report||Indian economy is estimated to contract 7.7 per cent in 2020-21 compared to 4.2 per cent growth in the previous fiscal, mainly on account of the impact of the Covid-19 pandemic. As per the first advanced estimates of the national income released by the National Statistical Office (NSO) on Thursday, there was a contraction in almost all sectors with the exception of agriculture. "Real GDP or GDP at Constant Prices (2011-12) in the year 2020-21 is likely to attain a level of Rs 134.40 lakh crore, as against the Provisional Estimate of GDP for the year 2019-20 of Rs 145.66 lakh crore... The growth in real GDP during 2020-21 is estimated at -7.7 per cent as compared to the growth rate of 4.2 per cent in 2019-20," it said. In the current fiscal, the manufacturing sector is likely to see a contraction of 9.4 per cent whereas growth was almost flat at 0.03 per cent in the year-ago period. The NSO estimates significant contraction in 'mining and quarrying', and 'trade, hotels, transport, communication and services related to broadcasting'. The agriculture sector is estimated to see a growth of 3.4 per cent in 2020-21. However, it will be lower than 4 per cent growth recorded in 2019-20. The economy contracted 23.9 per cent in the first quarter and 7.5 per cent in the second quarter.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-432
07-01-2021||India||Arnab Goswami, two other accused fail to appear before Raigad court||TV journalist Arnab Goswami, an accused in abetment of suicide case, failed to appear before a court in Raigad district of Maharashtra on Thursday, prompting the prosecution to seek a warrant against him. Alibaug Police had arrested Goswami and two others in the case related to interior designer Anvay Naik's alleged suicide in November 2020. They were later granted bail by the Supreme Court. On Thursday, as the case came up before Alibaug sessions court, Goswami's lawyer sought exemption from appearance. The court granted an exemption for the day. The other two accused -- Firoze Sheikh and Nitish Sarda -- also did not appear. Special public prosecutor Pradeep Gharat took a strong exception, saying the accused should have been present for the purpose of identification as this was the first hearing after the court took cognizance of the charge sheet. He also sought the issuance of warrant against Goswami and the other two. While keeping Gharat's plea pending, the court noted that as restrictions on account of coronavirus are in place till January 31, no coercive action can be taken. The court posted the matter for hearing on February 6. On that date, the accused will need to appear in person or through video conference, the prosecutor told PTI. After taking cognizance of the police's charge sheet, the court had asked all the accused to appear on January 7. The trio is facing a case under IPC sections 306 (abetment to suicide) and 109 (punishment for abetment). The charge sheet claims that Naik killed his mother, a partner in his business, and hanged himself at their Alibaug house in May 2018 as he was under stress due to non-payment of dues by the firms of the three accused. Goswami, editor-in-chief of Republic TV, alleged that the police reopened a case which had been closed in 2019 as the state government wanted to harass him.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-432
07-01-2021||India||Varavara Rao to remain in hospital till next week, says HC||The Bombay High Court on Thursday said that jailed Telugu poet-activist Varavara Rao will continue to stay at a private hospital in Mumbai till January 13. Rao, 80, an accused in the Elgar Parishad-Maoist links case, was admitted to Nanavati Hospital in the city owing to his health issues in November following the court’s orders. A division bench of Justice S S Shinde and M S Karnik on Thursday extended Rao’s stay at the private hospital after adjourning the hearing on his bail plea to January 13. The Maharashtra government submitted a fresh medical report which said his health was “much better” and he “has recovered and is able to walk”. On December 21, the state government and the National Investigation Agency (NIA), the prosecuting agency, had requested the HC to transfer Rao from Nanavati Hospital to the Taloja prison hospital or state-run J J Hospital in Mumbai. The bench, however, had said it would need to see his latest medical reports. Rao has been in and out of hospital since he was arrested in June 2018 and lodged in Taloja prison in neighbouring Navi Mumbai. On July 16, 2020, he tested positive for coronavirus, after which he was shifted to Nanavati Hospital and discharged on July 30 after recovery. In December he was admitted to Nanavati Hospital again when his lawyers moved the court citing his deteriorating health. Besides his bail plea on medical grounds, the bench is also hearing a writ petition filed by Rao's wife Hemlatha, alleging violation of his fundamental rights due to continued incarceration without adequate medical care. Rao and several other Left-leaning activists and writers were arrested for alleged links with Maoists following the December 2017 Elgar Parishad conclave in Pune.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-432
07-01-2021||India||States set to receive first supply of Covid vaccine shortly, informs Centre||The Union health ministry has informed states and union territories that they are likely to receive the first supply of Covid-19 vaccine shortly and asked them to remain prepared to accept these consignments. In a communique, the ministry said the vaccines will be supplied to the identified consignee points of 19 states and union territories -- Andhra Pradesh, Assam, Bihar, Chhattisgarh, Delhi, Gujarat, Haryana, Jharkhand, Karnataka, Kerala, Madhya Pradesh, Maharashtra, Odisha, Punjab, Rajasthan, Tamil Nadu, Telangana, Uttar Pradesh and West Bengal -- by the supplier. The vaccine for remaining 18 states and union territories -- Andaman and Nicobar Islands, Arunachal Pradesh, Chandigarh, Daman and Nagar Haveli, Daman and Diu, Goa, Himachal Pradesh, Jammu and Kashmir, Ladakh, Lakshadweep, Manipur, Meghalaya, Mizoram, Nagaland, Puducherry, Sikkim, Tripura and Uttarakhand -- will be received from their respective government medical store depots. "All the states and UTs are likely to receive the first supply of Covid-19 vaccine shortly. "In this regard, you are requested to ensure the advance preparation and readiness for the acceptance of forthcoming supply of the vaccine," Dr Pradeep Halder, advisor, Reproductive and Child Health (RCH) in the health ministry, said in the letter dated January 5. The further distribution of vaccine to the districts will be done as per the registered beneficiaries, for which a separate communication will be done shortly, the letter stated. The country's drugs regulator on Sunday approved Oxford-AstraZeneca's Covishield and indigenously developed Covaxin of Bharat Biotech for restricted emergency use in the country. The Health Ministry on Tuesday said it is prepared for COVID-19 vaccine roll-out within ten days of the vaccines getting approved for restricted emergency use on January 3, but a final decision on the launch date would be taken by the government. Meanwhile, as a simulation of actual execution of COVID-19 vaccine roll-out, another round of dry run will be conducted in all districts of all states and union territories, except Uttar Pradesh and Haryana, on January 8 to ensure efficient planning and management for vaccine delivery in each district.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-432
07-01-2021||India||SC expresses concern over large gathering of farmers during pandemic||The Supreme Court Thursday expressed concern over large gatherings of farmers protesting against the new farm laws at Delhi borders and asked the Centre whether they were protected against the spread of Covid-19. The top court was hearing a plea seeking various reliefs including CBI probe into the matter related to assembly of people at Anand Vihar Bus Terminal and the Tablighi Jamaat congregation at Nizammudin Markaz in the national capital after the nationwide lockdown was announced last year to contain the pandemic. "The same problem is going to arise in farmers' agitation. I do not know if farmers are protected from COVID. So, the same problem is going to arise. It is not that everything is over," said Chief Justice S A Bobde, heading a bench, also comprising Justices A S Bopanna and V Ramasubramanian. The top court asked Solicitor General Tushar Mehta, appearing for the Centre, whether protesting farmers are protected from Covid-19. Mehta replied, "Certainly not." Mehta said that he will file a report within two weeks on what has been done and what needs to be done. The plea, filed by lawyer Supriya Pandita, alleged that Delhi police had failed to control the congregation of people and the Nizamuddin Markaz chief Maulana Saad was still evading arrest. Advocate Om Prakash Parihar, appearing for the petitioner, said no statement has been made by the Centre about the whereabouts of Maulana Saad. The bench told Parihar, "Why are you interested in one person? We are on the issue of Covid. Why do you want controversy? We are interested that Covid guidelines should be there." The top court issued a formal notice in the matter after which Mehta said that he will file a report in the matter. The Centre had on June 5 last year told the top court that probe into the assembly of people at Anand Vihar Bus Terminal in east Delhi during the nationwide lockdown and the Tablighi Jamaat event is being conducted on a day-to-day basis by Delhi Police and there was no need for CBI investigation.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-432
07-01-2021||India||Farmers on a tractor march to protest farm laws||Ahead of talks with the government, thousands of farmers on Thursday took out tractor-march from protest sites of Singhu, Tikri and Ghazipur borders and Haryana's Rewasan against the three agriculture laws amid heavy police deployment. According to the protesting farm unions, this is just a "rehearsal" for their proposed January 26 tractor parade that will be moved into the national capital from different parts of Haryana, Punjab and Uttar Pradesh. Bharati Kisan Union (Ekta Ugrahan) chief Joginder Singh Ugrahan said that farmers participated in the march with over 3,500 tractors and trolleys. Ugrahan, whose union is one of the largest farmer organisations in Punjab, said that they will not accept anything less than the repeal of the three farm laws. The eighth round of talks between protesting unions and the central government is scheduled to be held on Friday. The last meeting remained inconclusive on Monday as farmer groups stuck to their demand for the repeal of the three laws, while the government listed out various benefits of the new acts for the growth of the country's agriculture sector. On Thursday, farmers started the tractor march around 11 am and moved towards Kundli-Manesar-Palwal Expressway amid heavy deployment of Delhi Police personnel and their counterparts from Haryana and Uttar Pradesh. Perched on their tractors, protesting farmers moved slowly through the protest sites, with speakers on their vehicles belting out music keeping their spirits high. Other protestors lined the path providing fellow farmers with all kinds of supplies, including peanuts, fritters, tea, and newspapers. At Ghazipur protest, the tractor march, led by senior BKU leader Rakesh Tikait, moved towards Palwal. "In the coming days, we will intensify our agitation against the three farm laws. Around 2,500 tractors from Haryana have participated in today's march. "We want to warn that if the government doesn't not accept our demands, farmers' protest will get intensified further," Abhimanyu Kohar, a senior member of Samkyukt Kisan Morcha, told PTI. The tractor march started from four different points -- Singhu to Tikri Border, Tikri to Kundli, Ghazipur to Palwal and Rewasan to Palwal. "The government has been hosting meeting after meeting. They know what we want. We want the laws to be repealed, but all we get are futile talks. With this rally, we want to give them a glimpse of what we can do, and what we will do on January 26. "Today, the rally is happening on the periphery of Delhi, but when our farmer leaders decide that we need to enter the capital, we will do that," Harjinder Singh, a participant of tractor march from Punjab's Hoshiarpur, said. Braving the severe cold and sporadic rains, thousands of farmers from Punjab, Haryana and some other parts of the country have been camping at several Delhi border points for over 40 days, demanding repeal of the farm laws, a legal guarantee on minimum support price for their crops and other two issues. Enacted in September, the three farm laws have been projected by the Centre as major reforms in the agriculture sector that will remove the middlemen and allow farmers to sell their produce anywhere in the country. However, the protesting farmers have expressed apprehension that the new laws would pave the way for eliminating the safety cushion of the MSP and do away with the "mandi" (wholesale market) system, leaving them at the mercy of big corporates.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-432
07-01-2021||India||Covid recoveries cross one crore mark as India logs more than 20,000 cases in a day||India's Covid-19 caseload rose to 1,03,95,278 with 20,346 new infections being reported in a day, while the number of recoveries surpassed one crore, according to data updated by the Union health ministry on Thursday. The death toll increased to 1,50,336 as 222 people succumbed to the disease in a span of 24 hours, the data updated at 8 am showed. The number of people who have recuperated from the disease surged to 1,00,16,859, pushing the national recovery rate to 96.36 per cent, while the Covid-19 case fatality rate stood at 1.45 per cent. The number of active COVID-19 cases remained below three lakh for the 17th consecutive day. There are 2,28,083 active coronavirus cases in the country, which account for 2.19 per cent of the total caseload, the data stated. India's Covid-19 tally had crossed the 20-lakh mark on August 7, 30 lakh on August 23, 40 lakh on September 5 and 50 lakh on September 16. It went past 60 lakh on September 28, 70 lakh on October 11, 80 lakh on October 29, 90 lakh on November 20 and the one-crore mark on December 19. According to the Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR), 17,84,00,995 samples have been tested for Covid-19 till January 6, including 9,37,590 on Wednesday. The 222 new fatalities include 66 from Maharashtra, 25 from Kerala, 22 from West Bengal and 16 from Delhi. Of the total 1,50,336 Covid-19 deaths reported in the country so far, Maharashtra has accounted for the highest of 49,825, followed by Tamil Nadu (12,188), Karnataka (12,124), Delhi (10,625), West Bengal (9,863), Uttar Pradesh (8,441), Andhra Pradesh (7,125) and Punjab (5,412). The health ministry stressed that more than 70 per cent of the deaths occurred due to co-morbidities. "Our figures are being reconciled with the Indian Council of Medical Research," the ministry said on its website, adding that state-wise distribution of the figures is subject to further verification and reconciliation.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-432
07-01-2021||India||Foggy morning in Delhi as minimum temperature rises to 14.4 degree Celsius||"Moderate" fog in parts of Delhi lowered visibility to 300 meters on Thursday, even as the minimum temperature in the city rose to 14.4 degrees Celsius, the highest in around four weeks. Visibility levels dipped to 300 meters at Palam and 500 meters at Safdarjung due to "moderate" fog, an official of the India Meteorological Department (IMD) said. According to the IMD, "very dense" fog is when visibility is between 0 and 50 metres. In case of "dense" fog, visibility is between 51 and 200 metres, "moderate" 201 and 500 metres, and "shallow" 501 and 1,000 metres. The Safdarjung Observatory, which provides representative data for the city, recorded a minimum of 14.4 degrees Celsius. The minimum temperature in the city has risen over the last few days as a result of cloud cover. Clouds trap some of the outgoing infrared radiation and radiate it back downward, warming the ground. Delhi witnessed rainfall on four consecutive days till Wednesday under the influence of a strong Western Disturbance affecting northwest India. The precipitation has increased the moisture content in the air. Dense fog is predicted in the city over the next two days, an IMD official said. A fresh WD may lead to "very light" rain in the city on January 9. The weather will remain cloudy, Kuldeep Srivastava, the head of the IMD's regional forecasting centre, said. Thereafter, Delhi's minimum temperature is likely to dip by four to five degrees Celsius with the commencement of northwesterly winds from snow-capped mountains towards the plains. The IMD said Delhi has already recorded 56.6 mm rainfall in January, the maximum for the month in 21 years. Sporadic rains drenched the city for the fourth consecutive day on Wednesday. Clouds blanketed the capital on Thursday as well. However, only a drizzle is expected, the IMD said. On average, Delhi records 21.7 mm in January every year. It had gauged 48.1 mm rainfall in January last year, 54.1 mm rainfall in January 2019 and 59.7 mm in January 1999. The city had registered 69.8 mm rainfall in the month in 1995, according to IMD data.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-432
07-01-2021||India||Farmers' protest: What Modi ‘has not got’||The rain has swept away the dust but not the farmers’ resolve. Retired army captain Dhop Singh, a 75-year-old veteran of the 1971 war, sat in a chair inside a tent on Tuesday afternoon amid the bitter cold. Gazing at the road outside, pockmarked with rainwater-filled potholes, he said the path before the agitating farmers was clearer than before. “Farmers have a strong association with rain and cold. When it rained, it was a happy feeling. Rain is good for crops. At least there was no hailstorm,” he said. He said the rain — which fell intermittently from Saturday morning till Tuesday evening — had had “little impact inside the tents” although he admitted spending the last three nights sitting in a chair since the floor had got damp. It’s no surprise that Dhop loves the rain. Since retiring from the army in 1995, he has been trying to squeeze an yield out of his 42 acres of arid farmland in the Haryana village of Baganwala. Poor rainfall and lack of irrigation have forced him to cultivate crops like chana (gram), moong dal (green gram), bajra (pearl millet) and mustard, which he grows during the wet season. “Now the government is ignoring our demand to repeal the three new farm laws. The agitation will become stronger now, with more farmers joining us. We are ready for a longer fight,” he said. “Even if (Prime Minister Narendra) Modi brings in cannons to block our way, we shall march ahead,” declared the old soldier, who said he had been posted in forward areas during the 1971 war. Dhop, who owns a buffalo that cost him Rs 1 lakh, scoffed at the government’s claim that the Farmers’ Produce Trade and Commerce (Promotion and Facilitation) Act would benefit farmers by allowing them to sell outside the government mandis (wholesale markets). “How much money will I get if I sell my buffalo in Gujarat? Will Modi ensure that I get more than Rs 1 lakh for my buffalo if I sell it in Gujarat?” he said. Pavan Hindustani, a farmer in his late 40s from Dhop’s village, owns 10 acres of farmland. He said the main threat was the Farmers’ (Empowerment and Protection) Agreement on Prices Assurance and Farm Services Act, which facilitates contract farming. “All the conditions in the law are loaded in favour of corporate groups that enter into agreements for contract farming. The farmers will become tenants on their own land. These laws will destroy them,” Hindustani said, sitting inside his polythene-sheet-covered tent and smoking a hookah. He said Modi lacked the knowledge that family men acquired through experience. “One thing common among family men is flexibility. Modi has not got it. But the farmers won’t give up; this is a struggle for our lives and livelihood,” Hindustani said. Daljeet Kaur, a fiftyish woman who has a transport business in Amritsar, has been protesting in solidarity with the farmers at the Tikri border between Haryana and Delhi since November 26. She was on a relay hunger strike on Tuesday — every day, 11 farmers sit in a relay hunger strike here. Kaur said: “The corporate groups have realised that people can live without almost anything but food. They want to focus their business on food now. The government is taking their side.” Women’s participation here seemed higher than the about 10 per cent witnessed at the Singhu border. Kaur said half the agitators at the Tikri border were women from Punjab and Haryana. Kaur used her rental service vehicles to bring groups of farmers free of charge to the protest site. Onkar Singh Randhawa, 30, sat inside one such vehicle, a school minibus, where he had slept the last three nights. “Yes the rain caused hardship. It’s not pleasant spending nights inside a bus. But we have been forced to start this agitation, and now there’s no going back,” the farmer from Mehta village near Amritsar said. Twenty-something Virendar Singh and Nirmal Singh, small farmers from Rure Ke Khurd village in Punjab’s Barnala district, have been sleeping inside small climbers’ tents. When it rained, they covered their mattress with extra layers of polythene sheet. “The agitation is going on with the blessings of Guru Nanak. The Guru’s langar is going on. The agitation will not stop,” Virendar said. Chaitanya Manjrekar, a mango grower from Pune, censured the government for damaging public property like roads to stop the farmers from entering Delhi. “The government is saying the agitating farmers are a small group of people. If so, why are the police digging up roads and hurling tear gas?” the 50-year-old said. “More farmers from Maharashtra are on their way to join the agitation here. The police are damaging roads, which are public property.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-433
07-01-2021||India||Indian regulators overlooked 'sloppy science' relating to Covishield: Experts||Indian regulators overlooked “sloppy science” relating to Covishield, the AstraZeneca-Oxford Covid-19 vaccine, when they approved its restricted emergency use, multiple experts have said. The simultaneous regulatory approval to the home-grown Indian vaccine, Covaxin from Bharat Biotech, without any data on its efficacy has so far attracted a torrent of criticism. The experts, however, believe the regulators also made allowances for the AstraZeneca-Oxford vaccine, made in India by the Serum Institute of India. The Central Drugs Standard Control Organisation (CDSCO), the regulatory authority for drugs and vaccines, on Sunday accepted an expert panel’s recommendations to permit conditional and restricted emergency use of both vaccines. Health officials have said the approvals were justified under emergency conditions. “We are in a war-like situation — we need innovative strategies,” Balram Bhargava, director-general of the Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR), the apex health research agency, told The Telegraph. India’s Covid-19 epidemic has shrunk from a peak of over a million active patients in mid-September to less than 228,000 on Wednesday. But Covid-19 remains a public health emergency with an average 18,000 new cases recorded daily over the past week. More than 150,000 people have died since the epidemic started. National drug rules, pencilled in March 2019, allow regulators to approve vaccines on the basis of their capacity to generate immune responses, or immunogenicity, without efficacy data to address “serious or life-threatening disorders”. “Safety, immunogenicity and efficacy are required in a non-emergency situation,” Bhargava said. “The existing pandemic, the mortality, available science, and lack of definitive treatment were considered (by the regulators) for accelerated approval.” Bharat Biotech head Krishna Ella, a scientist turned entrepreneur, has accused critics questioning Covaxin’s approval of trying to “throw stones and bash an Indian company” while ignoring issues relating to Covishield. Two members of India’s national task force on Covid-19 too have said the CDSCO panel’s approval to Covishield reflects a concession to poor science and incomplete data. One task force member has described the approval as an “opaque process”. Both members requested anonymity. The Serum Institute, while seeking approval for Covishield, had submitted data from AstraZeneca-Oxford’s trial in other countries and safety and immunogenicity data from India. Under Serum’s clinical trial protocol, it was to assess safety in 1,600 volunteers and immunogenicity in 400 volunteers. However, a senior government researcher told The Telegraph that the company had submitted immunogenicity data on only 185 volunteers, implying incomplete data. A Serum spokesperson declined to say from how many volunteers the company had submitted the immunogenicity data to the Indian regulators. “But we submitted all data that were required,” the spokesperson told this newspaper. Paul Offit, professor of paediatrics at the Children’s Hospital of Philadelphia and member of the US Food and Drug Administration’s vaccine advisory panel, is among researchers who believe that the trial data for the current AstraZeneca-Oxford vaccine are not strong enough for a reasonable assessment. In its interim analysis, AstraZeneca pooled the results of two dosing regimens — one involving two full doses on 8,895 volunteers that showed 62 per cent efficacy, and the second involving a half dose followed by a full dose on 2,741 volunteers that showed 90 per cent efficacy. The pooled data showed 70 per cent efficacy. “The trial involved two dosing regimens, two time intervals between the two doses, and two placebos,” Offit told this newspaper over the phone. “You shouldn’t combine data, but they did it. It is sloppy science and the data isn’t sufficient for efficacy assessments.” A member of India’s national task force on Covid-19 expressed surprise at how the CDSCO had assigned an efficacy level of 70 per cent to the AstraZeneca vaccine. “The 70 per cent is a pooled average — when you approve a vaccine for use, you need to specify the expected efficacy for the dose approved.” With existing data, Offit said, the AstraZeneca-Oxford vaccine would not get US FDA approval. “The strategy of using an adenovirus to generate immune responses against the novel coronavirus may be perfectly viable, but needs to be convincingly demonstrated,” Offit said. The vaccine would need to be shown as effective through larger trials. The efficacy trials of the Pfizer-BioNTech and Moderna vaccines — both approved for emergency use authorisation by the US FDA in December — had involved over 30,000 and 43,000 volunteers. The home-grown Covaxin’s efficacy trial in India has recruited around 24,000 volunteers and, scientists say, the efficacy results can be expected only after March this year. The vaccine was approved only on the basis of its safety and its capacity to generate a robust immune response. “Ultimately, Covaxin’s data from India will be much larger and stronger than Covishield’s,” Gagandeep Kang, professor of microbiology and a vaccine expert at the Christian Medical College, Vellore, said. “But at the moment, the data package for Covishield includes efficacy; Covaxin’s does not.” Kang, however, said that while the AstraZeneca trial data from the UK are “messy”, they show efficacy. The national task force member said the CDSCO panel’s approval process remained “opaque”. What data the panel had reviewed and what was discussed remains unknown — the minutes uploaded show only the outcomes. For instance, it is unclear what made the expert panel change its stance on Covaxin within 24 hours. In a January 1 meeting, the panel had asked Bharat Biotech to provide “interim efficacy analysis” for consideration for emergency use. The interim efficacy analysis is likely possible several weeks away. But on January 2, the panel granted emergency use approval, raising a question from critics — what extra input had the panel received over the course of a single day to change its stance. “For the sake of transparency, the drugs controller-general of India (the head of the CDSCO) should respond to the questions being asked,” said Shahid Jameel, a senior virologist and director of the Trivedi School of Biosciences, Ashoka University, Sonipat (Haryana). “The DCGI and CDSCO are silent. This (silence) has muddied waters, not people raising questions.” The UK, Argentina and India have approved the AstraZeneca-Oxford vaccine, widely described as the “vaccine for the world” because of its low cost and the relative ease of transporting it compared with the Pfizer and Moderna vaccines. Covishield, developed by researchers at the University of Oxford, uses a chimpanzee adenovirus containing the genetic sequence of SARS-CoV-2, the virus that causes Covid-19. Covaxin contains an inactivated (killed) strain of SARS-CoV-2 isolated by researchers at the National Institute of Virology, Pune. The Hyderabad-based Bharat Biotech developed the strain into a vaccine and is conducting clinical trials.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-433
07-01-2021||India||Cong assigns Gehlot and Bhupesh Baghel central observers for election-bound Kerala and Assam||Congress president Sonia Gandhi on Wednesday appointed Ashok Gehlot and Bhupesh Baghel central observers for election-bound Kerala and Assam, triggering a debate within the party on the propriety of assigning poll work to serving chief ministers. While some leaders analysed this as a pragmatic move and the party’s willingness to put its best foot forward, others frowned upon the decision, wondering if there was a talent deficit that had forced the central leadership to engage chief ministers in election management. The Congress said the observers would oversee election management and coordination. The appointment of observers — a set of three leaders for each state — is a new arrangement aimed at bolstering electioneering, which is largely viewed as a weak point of the Congress in comparison with the BJP’s carpet-bombing. While Rajasthan chief minister Gehlot will look after Kerala along with Luizinho Faleiro and G. Parameshwara, his Chhattisgarh counterpart Baghel will oversee Assam along with Mukul Wasnik and Shakeel Ahmed Khan. Senior leader B.K. Hariprasad has been entrusted with the responsibility of Bengal along with Alamgir Khan and Vijay Inder Singla. While Khan is a cabinet minister in Jharkhand, Singla is a minister in Punjab. Veerappa Moily and M.M. Pallamraju will look after election-bound Tamil Nadu along with Nitin Raut, who is a minister in Maharashtra. A senior Congress functionary, defending the choices, told The Telegraph: “While the party has been facing a severe resource crunch, the chief ministers and ministers can at least look after themselves instead of looking up to Delhi for logistics as well. They can also deploy persons from their states to carry out election work. We didn’t do this earlier but look at the BJP’s brazen deployment of central and state ministers in elections. The concept of propriety has been blurred in the Narendra Modi regime.” The leader added: “What is Union home minister Amit Shah doing in Bengal? He is managing the BJP’s election there even as there is a general secretary in-charge. The home minister of India led the BJP’s charge in the Hyderabad municipal election as well. Prime Minister Narendra Modi remains the chief campaigner in every state, addressing dozens of rallies in elections. The tradition of the Prime Minister’s participation in state elections being symbolic and restricted to a couple of meetings has been demolished by Modi. In every state election, the BJP sends 20-25 central ministers to camp there for weeks.” Even Congress chief ministers and central ministers have campaigned in state elections but never have they held the formal responsibility of managing elections. It is an unstated fact of Indian politics that resources come from the states where the party is in power but the chief ministers are never engaged formally in election work. Asked if the strong teams put in place to oversee state elections won’t undermine the institution of general secretary, another Congress leader said: “These teams will work in coordination with the general secretary. They are to work as support systems, not parallel authorities. We are trying to ramp up our efforts to match the BJP at least in manpower, if not in resources.” But the decision has caused anguish among a large section of Congressmen who believe this new practice of relying on ministers and MLAs for party work is damaging the organisation and having a demoralising effect on the workers. “If only a few persons get tickets to fight elections and then they capture the organisation space as well, are the millions of workers supposed to be mere cheerleaders? Isn’t the party advertising a talent deficit despite a huge pool of experienced and loyal leaders?” a former minister said, arguing against the “oddity” of engaging chief ministers in election work. This leader went on: “Chief ministers have enormous responsibilities in their own states. The Congress anyway is ruling barely a few states and our focus should be to strengthen the party position there. We have already lost Madhya Pradesh due to poor political management and the Rajasthan government was almost gone at one point. The absence of Ahmed Patel has started telling on organisational management. We don’t know who is giving the wrong advice to the party president or if somebody else is taking decisions.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-433
07-01-2021||India||Farmers' protest: SC sees no progress, gives time||The Supreme Court on Wednesday again stressed the Centre’s failure to break the deadlock with the protesting farmers but conceded the government’s plea to adjourn till Monday the hearing of a petition challenging the new farm laws’ constitutionality. Attorney-general K.K. Venugopal and solicitor-general Tushar Mehta had urged the bench not to take the matter up on Friday — as the court had suggested — claiming there were chances of a settlement by then. The next round of talks — the eighth — is scheduled on Friday. The farmers want the three new farm laws repealed. “There is absolutely no improvement in the situation,” the bench of Chief Justice of India S.A. Bobde and Justices A.S. Bopanna and V. Ramasubramanian had earlier observed, referring to the six-week-old siege of Delhi’s borders by agitating farmers. The bench was dealing with a public interest petition moved by advocate M.L. Sharma challenging a 1954 amendment to the Constitution that put key agriculture-related issues on the concurrent list. This had allowed the Centre to enact the new farm laws. Agriculture and marketing per se are on the state list while matters like trade and commerce in — and production, supply and distribution of — foodstuff are on the concurrent list. Both the Centre and the states can enact laws on subjects on the concurrent list. However, in case of a conflict, a central law prevails over a state law. Justice Bobde said that since multiple petitions on the farmers’ agitation had already been filed before the court, it would club all of them with Sharma’s and hear them on Friday. Mehta tried to dissuade the court, saying: “We are discussing the issue with the farmers….” Venugopal backed him, saying: “There is a good chance that parties may come to some conclusion in the near future.” He requested that no orders be passed on the matter so the talks could continue. He added that the filing of a response by the Centre “could foreclose avenues of negotiations under way between farmers and the Centre”. Justice Bobde said: “We understand the situation. We want to encourage the talks.We will keep matter on Monday and will adjourn if you say so.” However, the bench issued a notice to the Centre on Sharma’s petition. It added that Sharma had a habit of filing “startling petitions”. Venugopal said the challenge appeared a futile exercise as the states had for the past 75 years had no objection to agriculture-related issues being on the concurrent list. “Mr Sharma feels the Centre and the states are in collusion for the last 75 years,” Justice Bobde said. Some of the petitions filed in the apex court on the farmers’ agitation seek quashing of the new farm laws, while others seek eviction of the protesters from Delhi’s borders on the ground of hardship to residents and commuters. At the last hearing, the bench had chastised the Centre for its failure to resolve the dispute and proposed to form a high-level committee with all stakeholders to negotiate a settlement.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-433
07-01-2021||India||200 women in Haryana train for tractor rally||Several rural women in Haryana’s Jind district are receiving training to drive tractors for taking part in the “tractor parade” protesting farmers have planned in New Delhi on January 26 against the three new farm laws. The farmers protesting against the legislation had announced on January 2 that if their demands remained unmet, they would take out a “tractor parade” towards Delhi on January 26, when the country would be celebrating Republic Day. Women hailing from three villages — Safa Kheri, Khatkar and Pallwan — in Jind are learning to steer the tractor wheel. “Around 200 women are being imparted training to drive tractors,” Sikim Nain Sheokant, the president of the Jind-based Kisan Ekta Mahila Manch, said over the phone. She said that though some of the women can drive tractors in the fields for farm operations, they do not have experience of driving on the road. “We want women to drive tractors on the highway on January 26 without any help,” Sheokant said. She said several villagers were also helping them out by offering their tractors and providing the women training. Women are undergoing training at a toll plaza on the Jind-Patiala National Highway for handling tractor-trolleys on road. The protesting farmers are not allowing toll to be collected at the plazas in protest against the farm laws. “We are receiving training to drive a tractor for participating in the parade,” said a woman. Sheokant said the new farm laws were not in the interest of the farming community.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-433
07-01-2021||India||40% people aged 45 years and older with lung disease: Study ||A nationwide study of people aged 45 years and older has found 40 per cent with lung disease and that one in five need help for activities of daily living. The study, probing health in a manner never before and also the first in India that plans to track a large sample of an ageing population over time, has also found that one in 10 persons above 45 years has sleep problems and that one in 10 practises yoga. The Longitudinal Ageing Study of India, released by the Union health ministry on Wednesday, has found that 19.5 per cent of people, or nearly one in five, had undiagnosed high blood pressure. One in four (26 per cent) had at least one chronic health disorder. It found that 6 per cent reduced sizes of their meals and 5 per cent went hungry for lack of enough food and 4 per cent had gone without a meal for a full 24 hours at least once because they had nothing to eat. In three states — Bihar, Jharkhand and Madhya Pradesh — 10 per cent or higher reported going hungry. “The real wealth of this study lies in some measurements never done before,” said Sanjay Kumar Mohanty, a senior health researcher at the International Institute of Population Sciences, Mumbai, and a study team member. The observation made through lung function measurements that nearly 40 per cent of people above 45 years have restricted lung disease is a “major finding”, Mohanty told The Telegraph. “These findings are in line with independent data pointing to lung disease as the second leading cause of death in India after cardiovascular diseases,” Mohanty said. The LASI study proposed over eight years ago by researchers at the IIPS and other collaborating institutions seeks to provide insights into the picture of life for ageing Indians that researchers and policy makers could use to propose interventions. In the study, supported by the health ministry, the US National Institutes of Ageing and the United Nations Population Fund, researchers visited 40,000 households across India to create datasets on over 72,000 people, aged 45 years or older. “What we now have is a first snapshot — the goal is to follow up on these people in the years to come,” Mohanty said. Such a study has not been done in India before. Among the measurements not performed nationwide earlier are the levels of abuse faced by people aged 60 years or older. It found 5 per cent of the elderly face abuse. Sons-in-law and daughters-in-law were a slightly smaller source of abuse than children and grandchildren. Among those abused, 37 per cent reported abuse from children or grandchildren, and 35 per cent reported abuse from sons or daughters in-law.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-433
07-01-2021||India||SC doesn’t stay ‘love jihad’ laws of Uttar Pradesh and Uttarakhand||The Supreme Court on Wednesday issued notices to the Uttar Pradesh and Uttarakhand governments on petitions challenging the constitutionality of legislation they had passed or promulgated criminalising interfaith marriages if conducted for the ostensible purpose of religious conversion. The bench of Chief Justice S.A. Bobde and Justices A.S. Bopanna and V. Ramasubramanian, however, refused to stay the controversial laws without hearing the two states, which have four weeks to respond. One of the petitioners, Vishal Thakre, had sought the stay. The other petitioner is Citizens for Justice and Peace, an NGO founded by Gujarat-based activist Teesta Setalvad. The two BJP-ruled states have introduced the legislation as a shield against what their ruling party calls “love jihad” — Muslim men marrying Hindu girls with the alleged intention of converting and radicalising them. Initially, the bench had asked advocate Pradeep Yadav, representing Thakre, to approach Allahabad High Court which is dealing with several petitions on the matter. People cannot directly approach the apex court instead of moving the high court concerned, Justice Bobde said. “We are not saying you have a bad case…. We are asking and saying that you go to the high court and then come here,” he said. However, Yadav argued that since several other states like Madhya Pradesh and Haryana too proposed to bring in similar legislation, it would be appropriate for the top court to lay down the law on the subject. The bench then relented. Thakre has alleged that “couples are being harassed and are being taken away from marriage venues”. The two laws are the Uttar Pradesh Prohibition of Unlawful Conversion of Religion Ordinance 2020, promulgated in November end, and the Uttarakhand Freedom of Religion Act 2018. On Wednesday, the Jamiat Ulama-i-Hind moved an intervention application in the Supreme Court through advocate Ejaz Maqbool, saying the two laws were being used to assail Muslims’ rights. Muslim youths are “being targeted and demonised by using the impugned ordinance, which in itself is unconstitutional being violative of Articles 14 (equality before law), 21 (life and liberty) and 25 (religious freedom)”, the Jamiat said. Among the points the Jamiat has raised are: ⚫ The ordinance violates Article 21 by trying to regulate what should be an individual’s personal choice  — the freedom to decide what religion to adhere to. ⚫ The ordinance makes it a criminal offence to convert a person through “allurement”, defined “very broadly” as “any temptation in the form of: 1. Any gift, gratification, easy money or material benefit either in cash or kind; 2. Employment, free education in reputed school run by any religious body; or 3. Better lifestyle, divine displeasure or otherwise”. “This means if a person belonging to one religion, say Islam, gifts a non-Muslim a book concerning the teachings of Islam and the said non-Muslim person who received the book after reading it decides to convert to Islam, the said conversion could be said to have taken place by ‘allurement’ since it occurred after a gift was given to the convert,” the application says.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-433
07-01-2021||India||Shaktisinh Gohil asks to be taken off Bihar charge||Congress Bihar in-charge Shaktisinh Gohil has requested the high command to relieve him from the position and give him “lighter work”, blaming ticket distribution by the Grand Alliance, lack of cohesion and attempts by vested interests to divide the secular votes for the party’s poor performance in the recent Assembly elections. “Due to personal reasons, I have requested our party high command to allocate me lighter work for the next few months and to relieve me as soon as possible as the Bihar in-charge,” Gohil tweeted on Monday night. On Wednesday, Gohil was relieved of his duty as Congress’s Bihar in-charge but was retained as the AICC in-charge for Delhi. Senior Odisha Congress leader and former Union minister Bhakta Charan Das has been appointed the AICC in-charge for Bihar. He is also the in-charge for Manipur and Mizoram. Gohil, a 60-year-old Congress leader from Gujarat who was made the Bihar in-charge of the party in April 2018, tested positive for the coronavirus in the first week of November last year while Assembly elections were being held in Bihar, and had to remain under treatment for around two months. He has almost recovered but the infection has left him weak, he said. “I don’t want to hold the position if I cannot put in hard work or contribute to it. I also believe that the party should change its state in-charge after every poll. This was the reason for which I had offered my resignation after the 2019 Lok Sabha polls, but the high command asked me to continue and I obeyed,” Gohil told The Telegraph. “We worked hard for the Assembly polls despite the coronavirus pandemic. However, the party could not do well due to various reasons. I am also responsible for it, and I accept it,” Gohil added. The Congress had contested 70 seats as part of the Grand Alliance with the Rashtriya Janata Dal (RJD) and the Left parties but managed to win just 19. This led to much acrimony within the party. Even the allies, especially the RJD that led the alliance, accused the Congress of being the reason behind the failure of the Grand Alliance to come to power. “As many as 38 seats out of the 70 that were given to us were those where the Grand Alliance parties had never won in the past three decades. The seats that we had identified, where our party was strong and we had good candidates, were not given to us,” Gohil said without taking the name of any party. “I am not indulging in a blame game, but there were people who made concerted attempts to compromise our political equations and divide secular votes in seats we contested. Maybe our panellists (candidates) were also not up to the mark and the selection of candidates had some faults,” he said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-433
07-01-2021||India||India prods Sri Lanka on Tamils||India on Wednesday sought to impress upon Sri Lanka that it is in the island nation’s interest to implement the contentious 13th Amendment to the Constitution on devolution of power to provinces that has been hanging fire since it was enacted in 1987 as a consequence of the India-Lanka Accord signed earlier that year. The issue was publicly raised by external affairs minister S. Jaishankar during his three-day visit to Colombo. In a media statement in the presence of his Lankan counterpart Dinesh Gunawardena, the visiting minister said: “It is in Sri Lanka’s own interest that the expectations of the Tamil people for equality, justice, peace and dignity within a united Sri Lanka are fulfilled. That applies equally to the commitments made by the Sri Lankan government on meaningful devolution, including the 13th Amendment to the Constitution. The progress and prosperity of Sri Lanka will surely be advanced as a consequence.’’ Jaishankar prefaced the intervention by pointing out that India’s support for the reconciliation process in Sri Lanka is longstanding, as “indeed for an inclusive political outlook that encourages ethnic harmony’’. Last year, Prime Minister Narendra Modi had delivered a similar message in the presence of his Sri Lankan counterpart Mahinda Rajapaksa, who in his statement to the media did not touch upon the subject. India has been pushing for the full implementation of the 13th Amendment that was conceived in the Accord as a way to resolve Sri Lanka’s ethnic conflict, which resulted in a bloody civil war with the Liberation Tigers of Tamil Elam (LTTE) spearheading the Tamils’ right to self-determination and a separate state. The 13th Amendment led to the creation of provincial councils but the promised devolution of power never took place. Last year, Sri Lankan President Gotabaya Rajapaksa told European Union envoys that certain areas of the 13th Amendment cannot be implemented, urging politicians to explore other alternatives. In particular, he is not in favour of handing over policing powers to the provincial councils set up as a result of the partial implementation of the 13th Amendment to the Constitution. His contention is that handing over police powers to the provincial councils would result in their politicisation. Add to this the fact that all non-Tamil parties of Sri Lanka are opposed to transferring powers relating to land from the central government to the provincial councils. This apart, Jaishankar also said that Sri Lanka had evinced interest in accessing Covid vaccines from India and assured Colombo that New Delhi sees international cooperation in this regard as its duty. As India and China try to increase their influence in the region, Jaishankar sought to highlight New Delhi’s track record as Colombo’s development partner, adding that Indian business is strongly interested in investing in Sri Lanka. Some of the avenues being considered include special zones for pharmaceutical manufacturing and tourism. There was no official word on the stalled East Container Terminal project that India and Japan were to develop at Colombo port. Though an agreement was signed in May 2019 by the previous federal government in Sri Lanka, it got stalled after the Rajapaksa brothers were elected to office later that year with Opposition parties and port workers stepping up their resistance to the project in which Adani Ports is also reported to be interested.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-433
07-01-2021||India|| Sadhu, accomplices allegedly gang rape and murder anganwadi worker in UP||A 42-year-old anganwadi worker was gang-raped and murdered allegedly by a sadhu and two accomplices when she had gone to worship at a temple in Uttar Pradesh’s Badaun district. A hard object, possibly an iron rod, had been inserted into her private parts and one leg had been broken. Baba Satya Narayan, the mahant of the temple in Ughaiti, is absconding. His driver Jaspal Singh and disciple Ved Ram have been arrested. The family of the woman accused police of sending the body for a post-mortem more than 24 hours after they lodged a written complaint, which allowed the main accused to escape. The officer in charge of the local police station has been suspended. The post-mortem report has confirmed gang-rape and brutalisation, according to the police. An uncle of the woman said Satya Narayan, Ved Ram and Jaspal brought the body of the woman home in the mahant’s Mahindra Bolero around 11pm on Sunday and claimed that she had died after falling into a dry well. “Satya Narayan told us that they had tried to rescue her. When we asked why he had not informed us earlier, he said he did not want to cause any tension. The three stayed at the temple till Tuesday morning and ran away when they realised that they could be arrested,” the uncle told reporters in his village on Wednesday. He said the arrests were made after TV news channels flashed the incident on Wednesday. “As soon as we got her body, we went to Ughaiti police station but the officers there accused us of making wild allegations against the mahant,” the uncle said. Sources in the police corroborated this. “She was declared dead on arrival at the hospital. An officer visited the hospital on Monday afternoon and said a case would be registered only after the post-mortem report confirmed the crime we were claiming had been committed. They registered the FIR on Monday night but didn’t visit the spot of the crime. The three criminals easily sneaked out of the village on Tuesday,” the uncle said. Siddharth Verma, the superintendent of police of Badaun Rural, said Satya Narayan was absconding while the other two accused had been arrested. He said the office in charge of the local police station had been suspended. A special task force of Uttar Pradesh police has been formed to arrest the main accused. Senior superintendent of police Sankalp Sharma said: “The post-mortem report has confirmed rape, and there are injuries in her private parts and a fracture in the leg.” Congress leader Priyanka Gandhi Vadra hit out at the Yogi Adityanath government, alleging that there was “something wrong” in the intentions of the Uttar Pradesh administration on the issue of women’s security. Also referring to the gang rape and murder of a Dalit teen in Hathras and her forcible cremation by the police, Priyanka tweeted: “In Hathras, the government administration did not listen to the voice of those pleading. The government saved officials and suppressed the victim’s voice. In Badaun, the police station officer did not listen to the one pleading and did not even examine the place of the incident. There is something wrong in the UP government’s intentions on women’s security.” Congress spokesperson Randeep Singh Surjewala termed the incident “horrific” and “shameful for humanity”. Additional reporting by PTI||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-433
07-01-2021||India||Karnataka High Court dismisses B.S. Yediyurappa’s plea to quash criminal proceedings against him ||Karnataka High Court on Tuesday dismissed the state chief minister’s plea to quash criminal proceedings against him in an illegal land denotification case. The single bench of Justice John Michael Cunha also slapped a penalty of Rs 25,000 on B.S. Yediyurappa who had approached the court in 2017 seeking to quash the FIR against him. It is the second such setback for Yediyurappa in about two weeks after the same court on December 22 dismissed another plea to quash an FIR in a different land denotification case. This has come as a major blow to Yediyurappa who is already under pressure from his own party lawmakers over cabinet berths and inadequate funds for their constituencies. The Congress immediately demanded his resignation citing the penalty slapped by the court. In 2010, Yediyurappa, as the then chief minister, had illegally denotified 1.1 acres of land in Matadahalli in Bangalore allegedly for the mother-in-law of his predecessor and Janata Dal Secular leader H.D. Kumaraswamy. The case was based on a complaint filed with the police wing attached to Karnataka Lokayukta in 2015 by social activist Jayakumar Hiremath. “I had filed the complaint with substantial evidence of Yediyurappa illegally denotifying the land in favour of Kumaraswamy’s mother-in-law, Vimala, who then transferred it to her son (T.S.) Channappa,” Hiremath told The Telegraph on Wednesday. Apart from Yediyurappa, who is the first accused, the FIR named Kumaraswamy, Vimala and Channappa and the officials concerned who facilitated the deal. They were slapped with several sections of the Prevention of Corruption Act and relevant sections of the penal code. “The high court’s decision to dismiss his (Yediyurappa) plea is really a boost to my case,” Hiremath added. Denotification is a process of regularising government land so that it can be sold to a private person or a business establishment. There are many instances of illegal denotification of land to palm off undervalued land to friends and relatives of politicians. Justice Cunha had on December 22 dismissed another plea to quash an FIR in a case related to denotifying government land in the tech corridor of Whitefield in east of Bangalore. As the then deputy chief minister in a JDS-BJP coalition headed by Kumaraswamy, Yediyurappa had denotified large tracts of land. State Congress spokesman and senior lawyer V.S. Ugrappa on Wednesday said Yediyurappa had no moral right to continue in office after being slapped with a fine by the high court. “Not only did the court dismiss his writ petition, but also slapped a fine on him in a clear sign that there is substance in the case,” Ugrappa told The Telegraph. “The chief minister tried to misuse the process of law by filing a petition to quash the criminal case. This whole thing is in breach of his oath to uphold the law and Constitution. What right does he have to stay in office after violating every bit of the oath?” Ugrappa said. While there was no official comment from the BJP, a party functionary said it was up to the chief minister to comment. The dismissal of his two pleas came at a time he is under tremendous pressure from within the party over his leadership and the involvement of his son B.Y. Vijayendra who has become the “eyes and ears” of his father. Frequent meetings by disgruntled BJP lawmakers over the rising influence of Vijayendra had rankled the chief minister, especially after some of them called for a change of leadership. In an effort to calm disgruntled party lawmakers, Yediyurappa on Tuesday announced he would grant Rs 25 crore for the development of each BJP MLA’s constituency. This was preceded by an ugly spat between him and lawmaker Basangouda Patil Yatnal at a conciliatory meeting on Monday.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-434
07-01-2021||India||Sadhus divided over Kinnar Akhara||Serious differences have cropped up within the Akhil Bharatiya Akhara Parishad, the highest body of sadhus in the country, over recognising the Kinnar Akhara, a group of transgender sadhus, as an independent sect for the Haridwar Kumbh in March-April. Such recognition allows an akhara to take out its own procession with its members, accompanied by horses and elephants, for the Shahi Snan (royal bath) in the Ganga, for which a separate time slot is allotted. Akharas that are not recognised have to tie up with other akharas for the march and the holy bath. A section of sadhus from the Parishad — recognised by all akharas as their supreme body — are vehemently opposed to the Kinnar Akhara being recognised as a separate sect and allowed an independent procession at the Kumbh, while others do not have a problem with such an arrangement, accepting it as a sign of changing times. “There are only 13 akharas (sects of sadhus) in Hindu religion and the Kinnar Akhara is a recent creation that can never be accepted as an independent sect,” Baba Hathyogi, a representative of the Digambar Ani Akhara, said in a statement in Hardwar on Wednesday. He attacked the Akhil Bharatiya Akhara Parishad, the umbrella outfit of the 13 akharas, for the decision of some of its sadhus to recognise the Kinnar Akhara as an independent sect. “I refuse to recognise the Parishad if it accepts an akhara of transgenders,” Hathyogi said. “Adi Shankaracharya had founded seven akharas. Six more were formed after a few years. Later, the Vairagi Ani Akhara (of Sikh sadhus) was formed. But it was never considered an independent akhara. Members of the Vairagi Ani Akhara take the holy dip in the Ganga during Shahi Snan after joining the procession of one or the other recognised akharas. Unfortunately, some members of the Parishad have allowed the Kinnar Akhara to have their separate procession and bath. A large number of sadhus, including me, have refused to accept it,” Hathyogi said. Narendra Giri, the president of the Parishad, said: “We have no problem if the Kinnar Akhara goes with the Juna Akhara to take bath, like it did during the Ardh Kumbh in Allahabad in 2019. But it cannot be allowed to go on its own as the 14th Akhara.” But Sri Mahant Hari Giri, the general secretary of the Parishad, threatened to resign if the Kinnar Akhara was not recognised as an independent sect so that it could take out its own procession during the royal baths at the Kumbh. Mahant Hari Giri said: “Let the time come and the Kinnar Akhara will certainly take the holy baths independently. If needed, I will accompany them. The times are changing and we should also change. They are a new akhara and I recognise them. I may resign to support them.” Hathyogi demanded that Hari Giri resign immediately. “He can ask the Kinnar Akhara to join the Juna Akhara for the bath in the Ganga but it will not be allowed to move independently at any cost because we don’t allow the existence of a 14th akhara,” Hathyogi said. “Mahant Gyan Das, who was the president of the Akhara Parishad in 2010, had refused to grant recognition to the Kinnar Akhara as the 14th akhara,” he added. Mahant Ravidev Shashtri, the general secretary of the Yuva Bharat Sadhu Samaj, said: “The Kinnar Akhara had taken out its procession in Allahabad along with the Juna Akhara. It can continue to do so in Hardwar.” Swami Alok Giri, the head of the Narmadeshwar Mahadev Temple, Haridwar, said: “We cannot recognise the Kinnar Akhara. It can be a part of the Juna Akhara and take the holy baths.” Deepak Rawat, the officer in charge of Kumbh, said: “We will allot land for the camps of the akharas and fix their slots for the holy baths only after a discussion with the Parishad. We don’t know about any controversy with regard to any akhara.” The Kumbh is held every 12th year but this time it will be organised after 11 years because of early alignment of certain planets. The first Shahi Snan will take place on March 11. The remaining three royal baths will be held on April 12, 14 and 27. Laxmi Narayan Tripathi, the head of the Kinnar Akhara, said: “We have our own sect and it had been recognised by all 13 akharas in the past. There is no dispute over our independent identity.” Adi Shankaracharya, the 8th century philosopher, had founded seven akharas — Mahanirvani, Niranjani, Atal, Avahan, Agni, Ananda and Nirvani. Six more akharas were formed later — Nirmal Panchayati, Nirmohi, Digambar, Juna, Udasin Bara and Udasin Naya.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-434
07-01-2021||India||Odisha steel plant gas leak kills four workers||Four contract workers died and some were taken ill after inhaling a toxic gas leaked from a unit at Rourkela Steel Plant in Odisha on Wednesday. The victims were engaged by a private firm in the maintenance work at the coal chemical department of the plant which is managed by the Steel Authority of India Limited (SAIL), a central PSU. Sources said preliminary reports suggested the four workers died because of emission of carbon monoxide from the unit. The four workers were admitted to the ICU of Ispat General Hospital (IGH) where they died during treatment. The deceased were Ganesh Chandra Paila, 55, Rabindra Sahu, 58, Abhimaya Sahu, 33, and Brahmananda Panda, 51. The other affected workers were treated at the plant’s dispensary. Ten workers were on duty when the accident took place around 9am. Plant authorities have ordered a high-level probe into the incident. The plant is around 500km from here. Senior police officers reached the spot. The functioning of the plant has not been affected because of the accident, sources said. Similar incidents have occurred at the plant in the past as well. Plant employees’ union leader, Himanshu Shekhar Bal, alleged that the private company engaged in the maintenance work at the coal chemical department had not followed the security protocols. He demanded adequate compensation for the deceased and the workers affected by the gas leak. “Accidents are taking place frequently at the plant. Authorities should take steps to prevent such accidents in future. The next of kin of the of the deceased should be immediately rehabilitated. Action should be taken against the agency which violated safety protocols, leading to the accident,” said Bal. The management suspended two deputy general managers for dereliction of duty in connection with the mishap. The sources said plant authorities had also taken rehabilitation measures, including jobs for one family member each of the four workers who lost their lives in the accident. Monetary compensation will also be provided to the affected families. The suspended officials are N. Das, DGM of coal chemical department, and G. Barik, DGM of energy management department. Odisha chief minister Naveen Patnaik tweeted: “Deeply saddened to know about the tragic loss of lives in the gas leak incident at the Rourkela Steel Plant. My thoughts and prayers are with bereaved families in the hour of grief and pray for the speedy recovery of those who are hospitalised.” Plant chief executive officer Dipak Chattaraj expressed deep sorrow over the mishap and assured that all possible support would be extended to the bereaved families.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-434
07-01-2021||India||Retraction glare on misconduct in science||The year 2020 was a year of great scientific misconduct. The late British physicist Stephen Hawking had said that “science is not only a disciple of reason but also one of romance and passion”. The vast majority of scientists work with passion to discover or invent, design experiments and generate data, using reason as the cornerstone, and draw conclusions using logical reasoning. These conclusions are published in scientific journals, after the methodologies and conclusions are deemed acceptable and appropriate by peers. Some work leads to the invention of tools, from submersible pumps to diagnostic tests for diseases. In this pursuit, scientists can make errors. When these errors are detected after publication, the papers are “retracted”. The journal announces the retractions. Such retractions play an important role in retaining only valid scientific inferences and in preventing the repetition of similar errors. Competition in science has increased fiercely. Many scientists often work independently to solve a problem. Whoever publishes first wins laurels. Consequently, there is often a great rush to publish. This rush has resulted in many papers being retracted. While most of these retractions are due to honest errors, some are due to scientific misconduct — the violation of standard codes of ethical conduct of research. These include data fabrication, falsification of methods or results, and plagiarism, that is, publishing work done by others as one’s own. Scientists who indulge in misconduct are abhorred. Of concern is a recent surge in retractions, due especially to fraudulent scientific practices. To stamp out bad science, two veteran health journalists — Ivan Oransky and Adam Marcus — began to catalogue retractions, with an investigative report on the cause of retraction. In 2010 they created a database called Retraction Watch. On December 15, 2020, Retraction Watch listed 24,561 retracted scientific publications. A large proportion of these retractions is due to scientific misconduct; manipulation of images of scientific experiments usually to suit a pet scientific hypothesis being very popular. This year has witnessed a flood of scientific publications on various aspects of the coronavirus. Among about 1,650 articles during 2020, about 40 per cent pertained to the coronavirus. The founders of Retraction Watch have stated that this is an “exceptionally high” rate and is “alarming”. Most retractions don’t impact our lives. Some do. Among these, the most prominent is a series of scientific publications by a once-renowned anaesthesiologist, Joachim Boldt. He led research in a hospital in Germany, Klinikum Ludwigshafen. In 2009, Boldt published a paper that came under scrutiny. It contained fabricated data. Subsequently, 96 of his 98 publications were retracted for scientific misconduct. Boldt asserted in many of his publications, using flawed and fabricated data, that hydroxyethyl starch, or hetastarch, if used in a form containing synthetic molecules called colloids, can be safely used to stabilise the blood pressure of patients during surgery. Hetastarch with colloids was widely used. Later studies carried out carefully by other scientists showed that hetastarch with colloids often caused deaths. Thus, scientific misconduct placed the lives of patients in danger. It is important that scientists remain vigilant against misconduct of their peers. We have contributed a fair bit to retracted publications; At least 25 publications from India in journals were retracted during 2020. Lives of scientists are tied to the quantity and quality of their publications. In science, employment, promotion, awards and other recognitions, all depend on what we publish. Therefore, in our zeal to obtain these rapidly, we sometimes take recourse to foul means. That discredits the entire profession. The science academies of India and elsewhere have started to play a leading role against scientific misconduct. The eminent US geologist Thomas Chamberlain had said: “Falsity in intellectual action is intellectual immorality.” Science is an integral part of our social fabric. All citizens have a role to play in retaining standards of high intellectual morality of our society by being vigilant against scientific misconduct. Otherwise, our lives may be in peril. The author is a National Science Chair and president of the Indian Academy of Science||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-434
