08-01-2021||India||Chaos at Delhi airport after Kejriwal govt issues fresh guidelines for UK travellers||Chaotic scenes were witnessed at the Delhi airport on Friday as many passengers arriving from the UK vociferously complained against the national capital government’s belated decision to make seven-day institutional quarantine compulsory for them irrespective of their Covid-19 test results. Passenger flights resumed from the UK to India in limited numbers from Friday onwards after remaining suspended for 16 days due to the emergence of a new coronavirus variant in that country. Air India’s AI112 flight from London landed at the Delhi airport at around 10.30 AM. It was the only UK flight to land in Delhi on Friday and it had 256 passengers in it, said Gauri Agarwal, founder of the Genestrings Diagnostic Centre, which is handling coronavirus testing of all passengers at the Delhi airport. "This is ridiculous. You cannot tell people the rules have changed after they land. Some notice must be given! Chaos at Delhi Airport with this flight, families with small children, pregnant woman howling," Vistara's former Chief Strategy and Commercial Officer Sanjiv Kapoor said on Twitter. Delhi Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal announced on Friday afternoon that travellers coming from the UK to the national capital will have to undergo a seven-day institutional quarantine and a seven-day home quarantine even if they test negative for Covid-19 on arrival. Air India, however, claimed on Twitter on Friday evening that it had informed the flight's passengers about the new advisory of the Delhi government before the plane took off from the Heathrow airport last night. "Around 20 passengers opted to cancel their flight on being informed by Air India's London team of this advisory. The announcement was repeated during the flight as well," the carrier added. A passenger of the flight, named Harpreet Takkar, tagged Civil Aviation Minister Hardeep Singh Puri on Twitter and said, "Just came from London AI112, it's absolutely maniac at Delhi Airport. Asking us to go for institutional quarantine even with a Negative PCR test. Didn't mention this on your SOP (standard operating procedure)." Another passenger, Mohit Wadhwa, tagged Kejriwal on Twitter and said, “I am one of the passengers of flight AI112 from London with my 2 months old son. You locked every one of us.” Sources said there were heated arguments between the passengers and security personnel who were present at the airport. Air India said it had mobilised all available resources to expedite RT-PCR tests for passengers of the flight and extended "every possible support to facilitate them". One Vistara flight with 291 passengers will come from London to Delhi on Saturday and two flights -- one of British Airways and another of Air India -- with a total of 481 passengers will land at the Delhi airport on Sunday, Gauri Agarwal stated. Aviation Minister Puri had announced earlier this month that only 30 flights per week will operate between India and the UK between January 8 and January 23. Indian and UK carriers will each be operating 15 flights per week during the period. Earlier this month, the Union Health Ministry stated that a passenger coming from the UK can board a flight to India only when he has a negative test report from a sample taken 72 hours prior to the journey. Moreover, as per the rules, the passenger also has to take the RT-PCR test on arrival at the entry airport in India. India had suspended all passenger flights between the UK and India from December 23 to January 7 as a new variant of coronavirus emerged in the UK. Over 60 passenger flights per week were flying between India and the UK in December before the suspension. Meanwhile three UK returnees were among 5,142 people who tested positive for Covid-19 on Friday in Kerala, which also recorded 23 deaths, taking the total infection count to 8,01,075 and the toll to 3,257.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-428
08-01-2021||India||Sharad Pawar says Sena leader joined NCP, deletes tweet later||A tweet on NCP chief Sharad Pawar’s Twitter account on Friday informed about a former Shiv Sena leader from Solapur joining the party, but it was deleted later. Mahesh Kothe, a former Sena leader, and his associates met Pawar here but did not join the party, sources said. As Sena, NCP and Congress share power in Maharashtra, workers and leaders of one party crossing over to another has created tensions in the alliance in the past. Media reports said Kothe on Thursday announced that he was leaving the Shiv Sena. On Friday, the Sena’s Solapur unit announced his expulsion. Pawar, in a tweet in Marathi on Friday, said, “Leader of Opposition in Solapur Municipal Corporation Mahesh Kothe and his colleagues joined the Nationalist Congress Party today. Welcome all into the party and the Maha Vikas Aghadi.” But later the tweet disappeared. “Kothe met Pawar, but did not join the party. So the tweet was deleted by Pawar’s social media team,” said an NCP source. In another tweet, Pawar said that Solapur city used to follow the ideology of leaders like Mahatma Gandhi and Jawaharlal Nehru, but its face "changed' due to some people inspired by the BJP’s ideology. Kothe and his associates are working to solve issues faced by the people, Pawar said. Last year, five Shiv Sena councilors from Parner in Ahmednagar district joined the NCP, creating a flutter within the ruling alliance. The councilors, however, returned to the Shiv Sena later.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-428
08-01-2021||India||Narendra Modi to meet chief ministers to discuss vaccine rollout||Prime Minister Narendra Modi is scheduled to interact with chief ministers of all states on January 11 to discuss the Covid-19 vaccination roll out process, his office said on Friday. The PM will also discuss the pandemic situation in each state, it added. This will be Modi’s first meeting with chief ministers following the recent approval of the two coronavirus vaccines for restricted emergency use by India's drug regulator. The prime minister has spoken with state chief ministers several times following the outbreak of the pandemic in the country. India is preparing for the roll-out of Covid-19 vaccines and the second nationwide mock drill on the drive was conducted on Friday. The notification from the Prime Minister’s Office comes hours after Union Health Minister Harsh Vardhan said soon it would be a reality to vaccinate the entire population in the country against Covid-19 after prioritising risk groups. India, he said, has done extremely well in developing vaccines in the shortest possible time, and presently two vaccines have been given emergency use authorisation. “In the next few days, also in the near future, we should be able to give this vaccine to our countrymen prioritising those who are at risk in the public and private sectors. The government has already made known the scheme of things,” the minister had said on Friday morning. In a country that is vast like India with a population of 1.35 billion, everything was done smoothly and meticulously without any glitches, he said. “We started the preparation for the impending vaccine drive against Covid four or five months ago after prime minister Narendra Modi ji constituted the national expert group for vaccination. We worked all the minute details and shared the information with those at grassroot level,” Vardhan said. Earlier, the government used to track the vaccine in terms of the temperature it was stored. “Now we started the new Covid platform in tracking the details of potential beneficiaries, places where they are likely to get the shots, pre and post-vaccination including giving an electronic certificate and follow it up with the second dose with detailed text messages and reminders,” the minister said. Meanwhile, the India’s aviation regulator DGCA on Friday issued guidelines to all aircraft operators who plan to transport Covid-19 vaccines packed in dry ice to various parts of the country. “If vaccines packed in dry ice are being transported in the passenger cabin of an aircraft, then the flight crew should be properly trained on the hazards and risks of its transportation,” it noted. The Directorate General of Civil Aviation (DGCA) said, “Adequate number of carbon dioxide detectors should be available in the cabin. Such detectors should be located at locations for timely and reliable detection of a dangerous concentration of carbon dioxide.” “All operators while engaging in the transportation of Covid-19 vaccines packed with dry ice shall establish the maximum quantity of dry ice that can be loaded in a given cargo hold or the main deck (passenger cabin) when a passenger version is deployed for all cargo operations,” it said. India’s drugs regulator has approved the Oxford vaccine Covishield, being manufactured by the Serum Institute, and indigenously developed Covaxin of Bharat Biotech for restricted emergency use in the country.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-428
08-01-2021||India||Rainfall likely in several parts of the country this month: IMD||There is a possibility of cold wave conditions over Uttarakhand, Punjab, Haryana and north Rajasthan on January 11 and 12, and above normal rainfall in south India from January 14 to 28, the IMD said.  For the week starting January 7 to 13, cumulatively, above normal rainfall is very likely over the south peninsula and central India and below-normal rain/snow is likely over the western Himalayan region.  Under the influence of cyclonic circulation over the southeast Arabian Sea and another cyclonic circulation over south Tamil Nadu coast and neighbourhood, fairly widespread rainfall with isolated heavy falls and moderate thunderstorm and lightning are very likely over southern peninsular India during next 2-3 days.  Under the influence of a trough in low-level easterlies from Karnataka coast to Maharashtra coast, scattered rainfall with moderate thunderstorm and lightning at isolated places very likely over Maharashtra during the next two days.  Thereafter, under the influence of a fresh spell of the easterly wave, fairly widespread rainfall with isolated heavy falls are very likely over Tamil Nadu, Puducherry and Karaikal and Kerala and Mahe on January 10 and 11.  Due to the prevailing dry north/northwesterly winds over most parts of northwest India, minimum temperature will fall gradually by 3-5 degree Celsius during next 4-5 days causing cold wave conditions over Uttarakhand, Punjab, Haryana and north Rajasthan during January 11-12.  “Due to abundant moisture available in lower tropospheric levels and other favourable meteorological features, dense to very dense fog at isolated pockets very likely over Punjab, Haryana, Chandigarh and west Uttar Pradesh and dense fog over Delhi, east Uttar Pradesh, Rajasthan and northwest Madhya Pradesh in the morning hours of January 9 and 10,” the IMD said.  No significant rainfall is likely over remaining parts of the country during the week, the IMD added.  For the week from January 14 to 20, due to the absence of any active western disturbance, below-normal rain/snow also is likely over the western Himalayan region. In south India, from January 21 to 28, rainfall is very likely to be above normal over extreme southeast peninsular India and below normal rainfall over the western Himalayan region. There will be dry weather over the rest of the country, the IMD added.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-428
08-01-2021||India||DGCA issues guidelines on transportation of vaccine packed in dry ice||Aviation regulator DGCA on Friday issued guidelines to all aircraft operators who plan to transport Covid-19 vaccines packed in dry ice to various parts of the country. “If vaccines packed in dry ice are being transported in the passenger cabin of an aircraft, then the flight crew should be properly trained on the hazards and risks of its transportation,” it noted. “Dry ice transforms into carbon dioxide gas at temperatures higher than -78 degrees Celsius under normal atmospheric pressure and, therefore, it is classified as “dangerous goods” by the International Civil Aviation Organization (ICAO),” it said. The Directorate General of Civil Aviation (DGCA) said, “Adequate number of carbon dioxide detectors should be available in the cabin. Such detectors should be located at locations for timely and reliable detection of a dangerous concentration of carbon dioxide.” “All operators while engaging in the transportation of Covid-19 vaccines packed with dry ice shall establish the maximum quantity of dry ice that can be loaded in a given cargo hold or the main deck (passenger cabin) when a passenger version is deployed for all cargo operations,” it said. The country is preparing for the roll-out of Covid-19 vaccines and the second nationwide mock drill on the drive was conducted on Friday. India’s drugs regulator has approved Oxford Covid-19 vaccine Covishield, being manufactured by the Serum Institute, and indigenously developed Covaxin of Bharat Biotech for restricted emergency use in the country.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-429
08-01-2021||India||Nadda coming to Bengal tomorrow to meet farmers||BJP president J P Nadda will reach out to farmers in poll-bound Bengal on Saturday by addressing them in Burdwan and also kickstart his party's door-to-door rice collection, aimed at underlining its "commitment" to peasants' growth, progress and prosperity. Party chief spokesperson Anil Baluni said Nadda will spend most of the day with farmers of Jagdanandpur village during his day-long trip to the state. The BJP chief will hold a roadshow from Burdwan Clock Tower to Lord Curzon Gate in Burdwan and address a press conference too. His address at "Krishok Surokkha Gram Sabha" (Farmers security village meeting) in Jagadanandpur will mark the beginning of 40,000 such meetings to be held by the BJP across West Bengal before the assembly elections, Baluni said. As part of its plan to collect a fistful of rice from farmers, the BJP plans to reach out to the homes of all the 73 lakh villagers across the state. The saffron party has launched an aggressive campaign in the state in its bid to end Chief Minister Mamata Banerjee's 10-year-old reign in the state. With Banerjee, also the head of the Trinamool Congress, backing the farmers who are protesting against the three agri laws, the BJP has gone all out to convince farmers about the "benefits" of these Acts and asserted that a large number of them support them.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-429
08-01-2021||India||No ‘ghar wapsi’ until ‘law wapsi’, farm talks end in deadlock||The eight round of talks between the protesting farmers and the Centre yet again ended on Friday in a deadlock, sources said. The next meeting is likely to be held on January 15. The farmers stuck to their key demands of repealing the agri laws as the only way to end protests, saying their “ghar wapsi” will happen only after “law wapsi”. However the Centre insisted talks must be limited to contentious clauses and ruled out a complete withdrawal of Acts. Not much discussions could take place on Friday as both the sides refused to bow down to each other, sources said. The next date has been decided after keeping in mind a scheduled hearing of the Supreme Court on January 11. The government sources said the apex court may look into the legality of the three laws, besides other issues related to farmers' protests. At the outset, Tomar appealed to unions for discussions on the laws, while farm leaders reiterated their demand that the new Acts must be withdrawn, sources said, adding that the agriculture minister stressed on protecting the farmers’ interest of the entire country. “Our ‘ghar wapsi’ (return to home) can happen only if you do ‘law wapsi’ (repeal of laws),” a farmer leader said at the meeting. Speaking to reporters after the meeting that lasted for little over two hours, Tomar said the government is still hopeful that union leaders will come with alternatives to discuss in the next round of talks on January 15. But, he virtually ruled out repeal of the laws saying many other groups across the country are supporting these reforms. On whether the government made a proposal to farmers to join a pending case in Supreme Court on issues related to farmers' protest, Tomar said the government did not make any such suggestion but it is always committed to follow whatever is decided by the Supreme Court. Asked whether the government would consider any proposal for allowing states to decide whether to implement the laws or not, Tomar said no such proposal was made by any farmer leader in this regard, but if such a suggestion is made the government will take a call at that time. After the meeting, union leader Joginder Singh Ugrahan said the meeting was inconclusive and it was unlikely that any resolution could happen in the next round of talks as well. “We do not want anything less than the repeal of laws,” he said. “Government is testing our strength, but we will not bow down. It seems we will have to spend Lohri and Baisakhi festivals here at protest sides,” he said. Another union leader Hannan Mollah said farmers are ready to fight till death and going to court was not an option. He said the farmer unions will meet on January 11 to decide their next course of action. Jai Kisan Andolan union leader Ravinder Kaur was seen crying after the meeting and said many mothers have lost their sons and many daughters have lost their fathers. At the eighth round of negotiations with the 41-member representative group of protesting farmers, the government asserted the farm reform laws have been welcomed by a large section of farmers in various states and asked the unions to think about the interests of the entire country. Union Agriculture Minister Narendra Singh Tomar, Railways, Commerce and Food Minister Piyush Goyal and Minister of State for Commerce Som Parkash, who is an MP from Punjab, held talks with unions at Vigyan Bhawan in the heart of the national capital. “Ideally, the Centre should not interfere in agriculture matters as various Supreme Court orders have declared farming as a state subject. It seems you (the government) do not want to resolve the issue as talks have been happening for so many days. In that case, please give us a clear answer and we will go. Why to waste everyone's time,” a leader said during the meeting. All India Kisan Sangharsh Coordination Committee (AIKSCC) member Kavitha Kuruganti, who was also present in the meeting, said the government has told unions that it can not and will not repeal these laws. Around one hour after the meeting, the three ministers stepped out of the discussion hall for their own internal consultations, after union leaders decided to observe silence while holding out papers with slogans including ‘Jeetenge ya Marenge’ (We will either win or die). The union leaders, however, refused to take a lunch break and stayed put in the meeting room, a source said. Earlier during the day, Union Minister of State for Agriculture Kailash Choudhury expressed hopes that a resolution will be reached after Friday’s meeting. “I am hopeful that a resolution will be reached at Friday's meeting. We could have ended the deadlock by now had the protesting farmer unions discussed the issues raised at the first meeting,” he told PTI. Choudhury said during the first round of talks, there was no demand for repeal of the three laws. Just before the meeting, Kuruganti said: “If no solution arrived in today's meeting, we will continue with our plan of tractor rally on January 26.” “Our main demand is repeal of the laws. We will not accept any amendments. Government is taking it as a prestige issue and not taking back the laws. But this is a life and death question for all farmers. There has been no change in our stand since beginning,” she added. The agitating farmers took out tractor rallies on Thursday to press their demand for a rollback of the laws, while the Centre asserted that it was ready to consider any proposal other than a repeal of the legislations. The government had sent a draft proposal to the protesting farmer unions last month, suggesting seven-eight amendments to the new laws and a written assurance on the MSP procurement system.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-429
08-01-2021||India||No option but to repeal the farm laws, Congress tells govt||On a day farmers are holding the eighth round of talks with the government, the Congress on Friday said there is no solution except repealing the three farm laws. The Congress also stepped up the offensive against the government by launching an online campaign in support of the farmers' agitation, with party leader Rahul Gandhi accusing the government of betraying the farmers for benefitting their 'corporate friends'. Congress general secretary Priyanka Gandhi Vadra also met the party's MPs and MLAs from Punjab who are sitting in protest at Jantar Mantar demanding the repeal of the farm laws. "The only solution is to repeal the three farm laws. There is no other solution," she told the protesting legislators during her meeting with them. "We have always stood by the farmers and we will not step back," she also said while reiterating the party's support for farmers. Punjab MPs Ravneet Singh Bittu, Jasbir Singh Gill and Gurjit Singh Aujla, along with some of the party MLAs including Kulbir Singh Zira have been sitting on a dharna at Jantar Mantar for the last 32 days in support of the farmers and seeking repeal of the farm laws. The meeting of protesting Punjab leaders with Priyanka Gandhi took place at Rahul Gandhi's residence. Rahul Gandhi took to Twitter to seek the support of party leaders in favour of farmers. "The Modi government has betrayed the 'Annadata' of the country for the benefit of their capitalist friends. The farmers have spoken through their agitation. It is the duty of all of us to raise the voice of the 'annadata' and support their demands," he said in a tweet in Hindi. Peaceful agitation is an integral part of democracy. The farmers' movement is getting the support from all over the country. You too should raise your voice in support of them and strengthen the voice of farmers so that the anti-agricultural laws are repealed," he said in another tweet. Congress leaders participated in the online campaign in support of the farmers by putting out their videos on Twitter and sought support for the agitating farmers. Farmers have been protesting at the borders of Delhi for the past over 40 days in support of their demands, which mainly includes the repeal of the three farm laws. They are also engaged in talks with the government to find a solution to their demands and held the eighth round of talks at Vigyan Bhawan on Friday afternoon. Agriculture Minister Narendra Singh Tomar, Railway Minister Piyush Goyal and Minister of State Som Prakash are among those holding discussions with leaders of various farmer unions at Vigyan Bhawan.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-429
08-01-2021||India||Our ‘ghar wapsi’ after your ‘law wapsi’, farmers tell Centre||Protesting farmers on Friday stuck to their key demands of repealing the agri laws as the only way to end protests. During the eighth round of the meeting between the representatives and the three central ministers, the farmers said their “ghar wapsi” will happen only after “law wapsi” but the Centre insisted talks must be limited to contentious clauses and ruled out a complete withdrawal of Acts. At the eighth round of negotiations with the 41-member representative group of protesting farmers, the government asserted the farm reform laws have been welcomed by a large section of farmers in various states and asked the unions to think about the interests of the entire country. Union Agriculture Minister Narendra Singh Tomar, Railways, Commerce and Food Minister Piyush Goyal and Minister of State for Commerce Som Parkash, who is an MP from Punjab, are holding talks with unions at Vigyan Bhawan in the heart of the national capital, while thousands of farmers have stayed put at various Delhi borders to protest against the three laws they find pro-corporate and against the existing mandi and MSP procurement systems. At the outset, Tomar appealed to unions for discussions on the laws, while farm leaders reiterated their demand that the new Acts must be withdrawn, sources said, adding that the agriculture minister stressed on protecting the farmers’ interest of the entire country. “Our ‘ghar wapsi’ (return to home) can happen only if you do ‘law wapsi’ (repeal of laws),” a farmer leader said at the meeting. “Ideally, the Centre should not interfere in agriculture matters as various Supreme Court orders have declared farming as a state subject. It seems you (the government) do not want to resolve the issue as talks have been happening for so many days. In that case, please give us a clear answer and we will go. Why to waste everyone's time,” another leader said. All India Kisan Sangharsh Coordination Committee (AIKSCC) member Kavitha Kuruganti, who was also present in the meeting, said the government has told unions that it can not and will not repeal these laws. Around one hour after the meeting, the three ministers stepped out of the discussion hall for their own internal consultations, after union leaders decided to observe silence while holding out papers with slogans including ‘Jeetenge ya Marenge’ (We will either win or die). The union leaders, however, refused to take a lunch break and stayed put in the meeting room, a source said. On January 4, the seventh round of talks ended inconclusively as the unions stuck to their demand for a complete repeal of three farm laws, while the government wanted to discuss only the “problematic” clauses or other alternatives to end the deadlock. Before that, in the sixth round of talks held on December 30 last year, some common ground was reached on two demands -- decriminalisation of stubble-burning and continuation of power subsidies. Earlier during the day, Union Minister of State for Agriculture Kailash Choudhury expressed hopes that a resolution will be reached after Friday’s meeting. “I am hopeful that a resolution will be reached at Friday's meeting. We could have ended the deadlock by now had the protesting farmer unions discussed the issues raised at the first meeting,” he told PTI. Choudhury said during the first round of talks, there was no demand for repeal of the three laws. Just before the meeting, Kuruganti said: “If no solution arrived in today's meeting, we will continue with our plan of tractor rally on January 26.” “Our main demand is repeal of the laws. We will not accept any amendments. Government is taking it as a prestige issue and not taking back the laws. But this is a life and death question for all farmers. There has been no change in our stand since beginning,” she added. The agitating farmers took out tractor rallies on Thursday to press their demand for a rollback of the laws, while the Centre asserted that it was ready to consider any proposal other than a repeal of the legislations. While several opposition parties and people from other walks of life have come out in support of the farmers, some farmer groups have met the agriculture minister over the last few weeks to extend their support to the three laws.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-429
08-01-2021||India||Delhi bound passengers from UK to undergo mandatory, self-paid Covid tests ||Travellers coming from the UK to the national capital will have to undergo a seven-day institutional quarantine and a seven-day home quarantine even if they test negative for Covid-19 on arrival, Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal announced on Friday. "To protect Delhiites from exposure to the virus from the UK, the Delhi government has taken important decisions. Travellers coming from UK will have to mandatorily undergo a self-paid RT-PCR test on arrival at the airport," the chief minister said. "All those arriving from the UK who test positive will be isolated at an isolation facility. Negative ones will be taken to a quarantine facility for seven days, followed by seven days of home quarantine," he said. Kejriwal had on Thursday urged the Centre to extend the suspension of flights to and from the United Kingdom as the country now battles a variant strain of the coronavirus first detected there. On December 23, the central government suspended flights from the UK, with all passengers coming from there having to be tested on arrival at airports. The suspension of UK flights was later extended up to January 8.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-429
08-01-2021||India||Eighth round of talks between farmers and Centre underway||Representatives of protesting farmers’ unions and three central ministers have begun their eighth round of negotiations on Friday afternoon to solve the impasse over three agri-marketing laws in New Delhi. Union Agriculture Minister Narendra Singh Tomar, Railways, Commerce and Food Minister Piyush Goyal and Minister of State for Commerce Som Parkash, who is an MP from Punjab, are holding the talks with the representatives of around 40 farmer unions, who have been protesting for over a month now, at the Vigyan Bhawan. On January 4, the seventh round of talks ended inconclusively as the unions stuck to their demand for a complete repeal of three farm laws, while the government wanted to discuss only the “problematic” clauses or other alternatives to end the deadlock. Before that, in the sixth round of talks held on December 30 last year, some common ground was reached on two demands -- decriminalisation of stubble-burning and continuation of power subsidies. Tomar met senior BJP leader and Home Minister Amit Shah, just before the start of the eighth round of talks with protesting farmer unions on the three farm laws, sources said. The meeting continued for about an hour, they said, but what issues came up for discussion in the meeting could not be ascertained. Earlier during the day, Union Minister of State for Agriculture Kailash Choudhury expressed hopes that a resolution will be reached after Friday’s meeting. “I am hopeful that a resolution will be reached at Friday's meeting. We could have ended the deadlock by now had the protesting farmer unions discussed the issues raised at the first meeting,” he told PTI. Choudhury said during the first round of talks, there was no demand for repeal of the three laws. Just before the meeting, All India Kisan Sangharsh Coordination Committee (AIKSCC) member Kavitha Kuruganti said: “If no solution arrived in today's meeting, we will continue with our plan of tractor rally on January 26.” “Our main demand is repeal of the laws. We will not accept any amendments. Government is taking it as a prestige issue and not taking back the laws. But this is a life and death question for all farmers. There has been no change in our stand since beginning,” she added. The agitating farmers took out tractor rallies on Thursday to press their demand for a rollback of the laws, while the Centre asserted that it was ready to consider any proposal other than a repeal of the legislations. Owing to the farmers’ protest since late November last year, several routes connecting Delhi with its neighbouring states have been closed for traffic movement.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-429
08-01-2021||India||Mandatory Covid tests for all international travellers to UK||International arrivals from anywhere in the world, including India, will now be required to prove a negative Covid-19 test taken up to 72 hours prior to departure for the UK, as part of new measures announced on Friday to contain the spread of new variants of coronavirus circulating internationally. Passengers will be subject to an immediate fine of 500 pounds if they fail to comply with the new regulations on pre-departure testing. Starting next week, inbound passengers arriving by boat, plane or train will have to take a test up to 72 hours before departing the country they are in and could be denied boarding without this. We already have significant measures in place to prevent imported cases of COVID-19, but with new strains of the virus developing internationally we must take further precautions, said UK Transport, Secretary Grant Shapps. Taken together with the existing mandatory self-isolation period for passengers returning from high-risk countries, pre-departure tests will provide a further line of defence helping us control the virus as we roll out the vaccine at pace over the coming weeks, he said. Prior to departure, passengers will need to present proof of a negative COVID-19 test result to carriers, as well as fill out a passenger locator form, which was already in force. The UK Border Force will conduct spot checks on arrival into England to ensure that passengers are fully compliant, the government said, adding that the test could be either in the form of PCR tests or lateral flow tests currently available to detect coronavirus but that further details will be laid out in the coming days. The move is intended to further bolster existing protective measures, with self-isolation for new arrivals and travel corridors remaining critical in reducing the risk of imported cases from high-risk countries. Passengers arriving from countries not on the government's travel corridor list must continue to self-isolate for 10 days regardless of their pre-departure test result. The UK remains under a nationwide lockdown since Wednesday, requiring everyone to stay at home unless travelling for a very limited set of reasons. Permitted international travellers will need to take their test up to 72 hours before departure, and this will apply irrespective of whether a country is on the travel corridor list, which includes India. The government will set out further details on the standards that the tests will need to meet in the coming days and what proof passengers will need to present. Those not on the UK's travel corridor list will still have the option to reduce the self-isolation period from 10 to as little as five days by paying for a second test through the Test to Release scheme. The scheme requires a test to be taken on or after the fifth full day since leaving a country not on the travel corridor list. Passengers will be required to show their negative test result before boarding, and transport operators will deny boarding if necessary. And with the South African variant of the deadly virus now of major concern, anyone travelling indirectly from South Africa must self-isolate for 10 days. The Scottish government has confirmed it will adopt similar rules to England and said this would not affect current restrictions making non-essential travel to and from Scotland illegal. Wales and Northern Ireland would follow similar control measures as they remain in lockdown. It comes after a further 1,162 deaths were reported in the UK on Thursday the second consecutive day of more than 1,000 recorded fatalities. There were also 52,618 new cases. At a Downing Street press conference on Thursday evening, UK Prime Minister Boris Johnson said nearly 1.5 million people in the country had now received at least one dose of a COVID vaccine, but warned there would likely be "lumpiness and bumpiness" as the rollout continues. He has promised hundreds of thousands of jobs in coming weeks as the Army joins in the logistics drive to assist the National Health Service (NHS) with the vaccination programme. "Let's be clear, this is a national challenge on a scale like nothing we've seen before and it will require an unprecedented national effort, said Johnson. "Of course, there will be difficulties, appointments will be changed but... the Army is working hand in glove with the NHS and local councils to set up our vaccine network and using battle preparation techniques to help us keep up the pace," he said. The UK PM has promised daily rolling updates on vaccination figures starting Monday as a means out of the country's lockdown, which is expected to last until March.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-429
08-01-2021||India||India's entire population to get vaccinated against Covid shortly, says Harsh Vardhan||Union Health and Family Welfare Minister Dr Harsh Vardhan on Friday said soon it would be a reality to vaccinate the entire population in the country against Covid-19 after prioritising risk groups. The Centre has started a new Covid platform to track particulars of potential vaccine beneficiaries and also issue electronic certificates to them, he told reporters after reviewing the dry run of administering COVID-19 vaccine at the Rajiv Gandhi Government General Hospital here as part of a state-wide programme. India, he said, has done extremely well in developing vaccines in the shortest possible time, and presently two vaccines have been given emergency use authorisation. "In the next few days, also in the near future, we should be able to give this vaccine to our countrymen prioritising those who are at risk in the public and private sectors. The government has already made known the scheme of things," he added. The Minister also visited the Government Omandurar Hospital here and a few other centres here. In a country that is vast like India with a population of 1.35 billion, everything was done smoothly and meticulously without any glitches. "We started the preparation for the impending vaccine drive against Covid four or five months ago after prime minister Narendra Modi ji constituted the national expert group for vaccination. We worked all the minute details and shared the information with those at grassroot level," he said. In the process, several lakhs of health workers have been trained adequately. Earlier, the government used to track the vaccine in terms of the temperature it was stored. "Now we started the new Covid platform in tracking the details of potential beneficiaries, places where they are likely to get the shots, pre and post-vaccination including giving an electronic certificate and follow it up with the second dose with detailed text messages and reminders," the Minister said. The details of this 150-page document has been shared with all stakeholders to make the vaccination drive successful, he added. India was the first country in the world to take note of the pandemic on January 6, 2020 and launch into action. A year of action has led to the country having one million testing kits per day from a mere one when the pandemic started. India has the highest recovery rate and the lowest fatality rate and almost all those infected got treated and returned home. The scientists and medical fraternity besides those in diverse fields rose to the occasion and displayed exemplary dedication and commitment. "We are able to export PPE kits, N95 masks and ventilators - almost everything that people used to talk about shortage then. Things transformed for the better due to the inspiration given by the prime minister for the development of Atma Nirbhar Bharat," Harsh Vardhan said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-429
08-01-2021||India||Govt hopeful of resolving farmers' issue in today's talks||Hours before the eighth round of formal talks between the Centre and the farmers' groups agitating against three recent farm laws, Union Minister of State for Agriculture Kailash Choudhury hoped that a resolution will come out of Friday's meeting. The eighth round of talks between three Union ministers -- Narendra Singh Tomar, Piyush Goyal and Som Parkash -- and the 40 protesting farmer unions to end the farmers' agitation is scheduled to begin at the Vigyan Bhawan here at 2 pm. Just before the talks, Union Agriculture Minister Tomar is likely to call on Home Minister Amit Shah to discuss the issue, sources said. Talking to PTI, Choudhury said, "I am hopeful that a resolution will be reached at Friday's meeting. We could have ended the deadlock by now had the protesting farmer unions discussed the issues raised at the first meeting." There was no demand for a repeal of the three farm laws at the first meeting, he added. Asserting that the new laws enacted by the Centre are in the interest of farmers, Choudhury said the legislations are just a beginning and added that the unions are agitating against the laws under the "influence of arhtiyas (commission agents)". "Next, the Pesticide (Management) Bill and the Seed Bill will come. At that time too, farmers can be misguided," he said. Asked if the Centre would encourage religious leaders from Punjab to mediate between the government and the protesting farmers, Choudhury said, "We welcome everyone. We want a resolution. If they are ready to talk in that direction, we welcome them." Punjab's Nanaksar Gurdwara head Baba Lakha, a renowned religious leader of the state, met Tomar on Thursday and wished to mediate between the Centre and the protesting farmers. The last seven rounds of talks between the Centre and the protesting farmers remained inconclusive, although there was some breakthrough at the December 30 meeting when the government conceded to two demands of the agitating farmers pertaining to power subsidy and stubble-burning.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-429
08-01-2021||India||Main accused of Budaun rape and murder case held and questioned by police||The priest, who is the main accused in the alleged gangrape of an Anganwadi worker in this Uttar Pradesh district, was quizzed throughout Friday night after his arrest in a late-night crackdown that ended his five-day run. The "mahant", Satya Narayan, was hiding in a forest area near the house of one of his followers in a village under the Ughaiti police station, from where he was picked up, the police said. The priest, who is in his 50s, was immediately arrested and interrogated by a police team. Four teams were formed to nab the accused, Senior Superintendent of Police (SSP) Sankalp Sharma said. He will be taken for a medical examination and produced before a local court for seeking remand, the police said. The 50-year-old woman, who had gone to a temple, was found dead under mysterious circumstances on Sunday. Her family members accused the temple priest and his accomplices of raping and killing her. A case was registered against the accused and two of them were arrested on Tuesday night, while the priest was absconding for almost five days before he was held. The incident triggered an opposition outcry and a comparison with Delhi's 2012 Nirbhaya case after the post-mortem report confirmed rape, a broken rib cage, a fractured leg and injuries in the private parts of the victim. The incident took place on Sunday and the matter came to light that night itself when the priest and his accomplices took the body of the victim to her house, saying it was found in a dry well on the temple premises. The FIR was registered on Tuesday after an autopsy confirmed rape and the two accomplices of the priest were nabbed. The station house officer (SHO) of the Ughaiti police station has been suspended for a "delay in informing higher authorities, laxity in taking action, dereliction of duty and failure in taking speedy action". Chief Minister Yogi Adityanath has ordered "strongest possible action" in the case even as opposition parties have launched an attack on his government, terming the incident "horrific" and "shameful", with the Congress comparing it to the Nirbhaya case. Following the incident, Bareilly ADG Avinash Chandra had visited the crime spot and announced a reward of Rs 50,000 on the arrest of the priest. "Based on complaints from the family members and the post-mortem report, a case has been registered under sections 376D (gang-rape) and 302 (punishment for murder) of the IPC," he had said. The ADG had said a second opinion on the post-mortem report was being sought from medical experts and only after that, any conclusion could be drawn. Budaun Chief Medical Officer (CMO) Dr Yashpal Singh said the woman died of trauma and excessive bleeding. Endorsing the CMO's opinion, District Magistrate Kumar Prashant said, "Whatever help can be given from the department will be given. She was an anganwadi sahayika (helper). We are also paying attention to the security of the family." The victim's son said his mother had gone to offer prayers at the temple on Sunday but did not return home within the expected time. It was only around 11 pm that the priest and his two aides came to their house and handed over her body, he added. Before the family members could ask how she died, the accused left the house saying she had fallen into a dry well and her body was pulled out subsequently. The victim's son said the police were informed of the incident on Monday. Amid the opposition uproar, the Chief Minister's Officer said in a tweet: "The UP CM @myogiadityanath has taken cognisance of the Badaun incident and instructed to take strongest legal action against the accused." The chief minister has also instructed the ADG, Bareilly zone to submit a detailed report on the incident and directed the Special Task Force (STF) to assist in the probe, it said. Congress general secretary Priyanka Gandhi Vadra, who is also in charge of the party's affairs in Uttar Pradesh, hit out at the Adityanath government, alleging that there is something wrong in its intention on the issue of women's security. Samajwadi Party (SP) chief Akhilesh Yadav and Bahujan Samaj Party (BSP) supremo Mayawati too have condemned the incident. The Budaun incident comes months after a Dalit woman from Hathras was allegedly raped by four men on September 14 last year. She died on September 29 at Delhi's Safdarjung Hospital. The National Commission for Women (NCW) has taken note of the Budaun incident and sent a team of its members for a probe. NCW member Chandramukhi Devi, who met the victim's family members on Thursday, said the incident could have been avoided had the woman not stepped out in evening. She, however, expressed dissatisfaction with the police action in the case. "I tell women again and again that they should never go out at odd hours under anyone's influence. "I think had she not gone out in the evening or if she was accompanied by any child of the family, perhaps this incident could have been avoided. But this was pre-planned as she was called through a phone call. She went (out) and then returned in such a state," she told reporters at the victim's village.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-430
08-01-2021||India||India reports 18,139 Covid cases, 234 casualties in a day||India's daily new Covid-19 cases fell below 19,000 for the fifth time this month, taking the country's caseload to 1,04,13,417, while the recoveries have surged to 1,00,37,398, according to data updated by the Union health ministry on Friday. A total of 18,139 new infections were reported in a day, while the death toll increased to 1,50,570 as 234 more people succumbed to the disease during the same period, the data updated at 8 am showed. The number of people who have recuperated from the disease surged to 1,00,37,398, pushing the national recovery rate to 96.39 per cent, while the Covid-19 case fatality rate stood at 1.45 per cent. The active Covid-19 caseload remained below three lakh for the 18th consecutive day. There are 2,25,449 active coronavirus infections in the country, which account for 2.16 per cent of the total caseload, the data stated. India's Covid-19 tally had crossed the 20-lakh mark on August 7, 30 lakh on August 23, 40 lakh on September 5 and 50 lakh on September 16. It went past 60 lakh on September 28, 70 lakh on October 11, 80 lakh on October 29, 90 lakh on November 20 and the one-crore mark on December 19. According to the Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR), 17,93,36,364 samples have been tested for COVID-19 till January 7, including 9,35,369 on Thursday. The 234 new fatalities include 72 from Maharashtra, 25 from Kerala, 19 from Delhi and 18 from West Bengal. Of the total 1,50,570 Covid-19 deaths reported in the country so far, Maharashtra accounted for 49,897, followed by Tamil Nadu (12,200), Karnataka (12,131), Delhi (10,644), West Bengal (9,881), Uttar Pradesh (8,452), Andhra Pradesh (7,126) and Punjab (5,422). The health ministry stressed that more than 70 per cent of the deaths occurred due to co-morbidities. "Our figures are being reconciled with the Indian Council of Medical Research," the ministry said on its website, adding that state-wise distribution of the figures is subject to further verification and reconciliation.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-430
08-01-2021||India||Eighth round of farm law talks today||The eighth round of talks between protesting farmer unions and the government is scheduled to be held on Friday afternoon as both sides look for a resolution to the over one-month-long deadlock on the issue of the three new farm laws. Both sides have stuck to their respective positions, with agitating farmers taking out tractor rallies on Thursday to press their demand for rollback of the laws, and the Centre asserting it is ready to consider any proposal other than their repeal. The latest round of talks to be held at Vigyan Bhavan at 2 pm on Friday is crucial as the previous meeting on January 4 remained inconclusive. There was some breakthrough in the sixth round of talks on December 30 when the government conceded to two demands of the agitating farmers pertaining to power subsidy and stubble burning. The previous rounds of talks had failed to make any headway. Thursday's tractor rallies were taken out from protest sites near the Singhu, Tikri and the Ghazipur borders and also from Haryana's Rewasan as the unions asserted they would not accept the Centre's offer of amendments to the farm laws. According to them, these marches were a "rehearsal" for their proposed January 26 "Kisan Parade" to the national capital from different parts of Haryana, Punjab and Uttar Pradesh. Owing to the farmers' protest since late November last year, several routes connecting Delhi with its neighbouring states have been closed for traffic movement. According to Delhi Traffic Police, Singhu, Auchandi, Piau Maniyari, Saboli and Mangesh borders were closed on Friday as well. It advised commuters to take alternative routes via Lampur Safiabad, Palla and Singhu school toll tax borders. Traffic has been diverted from Mukarba and GTK Road, the traffic police force said, asking commuters to avoid Outer Ring Road, GTK Road and NH-44. It said Chilla and Ghazipur borders were closed for traffic coming from Noida and Ghaziabad to Delhi, and advised people to take alternative routes via Anand Vihar, DND, Bhopra and Loni borders instead. The traffic police said Tikri and Dhansa borders were also closed for traffic movement. Enacted in September, the three farm laws have been projected by the Centre as major reforms in the agriculture sector that will remove the middlemen and allow farmers to sell their produce anywhere in the country. However, protesting farmers have expressed apprehension that the new laws would pave the way for eliminating the safety cushion of the MSP and do away with the "mandi" (wholesale market) system, leaving them at the mercy of big corporates.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-430
08-01-2021||India||Delhi's minimum temperature dips below 10 degree Celsius||Delhi's minimum temperature dropped to 9.6 degrees Celsius on Friday, a day after it rose to 14.4 degrees Celsius, the highest in January in four years, according to the India Meteorological Department (IMD). A cloud cover persisted over the national capital, preventing a steep decline in the minimum temperature, an IMD official said. Clouds trap some of the outgoing infrared radiation and radiate it back downward, warming the ground. The Safdarjung Observatory, which provides representative data for the city, recorded a minimum temperature of 9.6 degrees Celsius as against 14.4 degrees Celsius on Thursday. Delhi witnessed rainfall for four consecutive days till Wednesday under the influence of a strong western disturbance affecting northwest India. A fresh western disturbance may lead to "very light" rain in the city on Friday. The weather will remain cloudy, officials said. Thereafter, Delhi's minimum temperature is likely to dip by four to five notches with the commencement of northwesterly winds from snow-capped mountains towards the plains. The IMD said Delhi has already recorded 56.6 mm rainfall in January, the maximum for the month in 21 years. On average, Delhi records 21.7 mm rain in January every year. It had gauged 48.1 mm rainfall in January last year, 54.1 mm rainfall in January 2019 and 59.7 mm rain in January 1999. The city had registered 69.8 mm rainfall in January 1995, according to IMD data.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-430
08-01-2021||India|| National Commission for Women's answer for rape: ‘Don’t step out’||The Uttar Pradesh woman who was gang-raped and murdered allegedly by a priest and two of his associates when she had gone to worship at a temple could have averted the crime had she not stepped out of home at night or had been accompanied by a family member, a member of the National Commission for Women said on Thursday. Chandramukhi Devi told reporters after meeting the family members of the victim at her village in Badaun: “Main sochti hun ki agar woh utni raat mein bahar nahin gayi hoti ya uske saath koi parivar ka saath hota toh shayad yeh ghatna nahin hui hoti (I think this incident wouldn’t have happened had she not ventured out of home late at night or someone from her family had accompanied her).” The 42-year-old anganwadi worker was gang-raped allegedly by mahant Baba Satya Narayan, his driver Jaspal Singh and disciple Ved Ram when she had gone to the temple on Sunday evening. A hard object, probably an iron rod, had been inserted into her private parts and her leg fractured. The trio dumped the woman at her house around 11pm and claimed before her family that she had fallen into a dry well. She was declared dead on arrival at a hospital. Chandramukhi, who became a member of the commission in 2018, was previously the president of the women’s wing of the BJP in Bihar. Before that, she was the Bihar chief of the Durga Vahini, the women’s wing of the Vishwa Hindu Parishad. She had been elected as an MLA of the BJP in 1995. “The police could have saved her life had they acted swiftly. Police officers have told me that she was unconscious and not dead when dumped outside her house,” Chandramukhi said. The victim’s family has accused the police of sending her body for a post-mortem over 24 hours after they had lodged a police complaint and trying to protect the accused, allowing them time to flee on Tuesday. While Satya Narayan is absconding, Ved Ram and Jaspal were arrested on Wednesday. The family of the accused have also accused the police of acting only after the media reported the crime. Two local police officers have been suspended. Reacting to Chandramukhi’s comments, Uttar Pradesh State Commission for Women chairperson Vimala Batham said: “I don’t know what the member of the NCW has said. Everything would be clear when the investigation is done.” Asked by reporters whether it was wrong for women to go out of their houses in the evening, Batham said: “There are working women who go to office or return late at night. They should feel safe in any situation. I cannot say that their movements should be restricted by time.” She said the Badaun woman had gone to the temple at 5pm, not late at night as Chandramukhi has claimed.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-430
08-01-2021||India||Supreme Court denies leaks on  ‘in-house’ inquiries||The Supreme Court on Thursday denied media reports about selective leaks from within the top court on purported “in-house” inquiries being conducted against certain sitting judges. In an official statement denying the claim, apex court spokesperson Rakesh Sharma particularly censured the reports’ attribution of their content to Supreme Court sources. The reports were filed by journalists based in Andhra Pradesh and Chennai. It is rare for the Supreme Court to issue a denial against media reports. “Media has recently been reporting about complaints making insinuations against members of the higher judiciary, and the action likely to be taken by the Chief Justice of India,” Sharma said. “Supreme Court is being quoted as the source of the information. It is clarified once and for all that inquiries under the ‘in-house procedure’ being totally and wholly confidential in nature, Supreme Court never releases information in matters incidental thereto.” According to a handful of media reports from Andhra Pradesh, Telangana and Tamil Nadu, Chief Justice of India S.A. Bobde has asked Andhra chief minister Y.S. Jagan Mohan Reddy to file an affidavit in support of his allegation that Andhra Pradesh High Court was biased against him. The allegation was aired by Jagan’s principal secretary Ajey Kallam at a news conference on October 10. Jagan, who faces a slew of corruption cases, also alleged that Justice N.V. Ramana of the apex court, a Chief Justice of India-in-waiting, was interfering in the affairs of Andhra Pradesh High Court. The media reports claimed that Justice Bobde had sought a report from Justice Ramana on the matter. Justice Ramana currently heads a bench that is monitoring the top court’s 2018 judgment mandating the completion of criminal trials against lawmakers in special courts within one year. Several advocates have moved contempt petitions in the Supreme Court against Jagan in connection with the October 10 allegations. Andhra Pradesh High Court too has chided the chief minister and noted that he faces 30-odd cases relating to alleged corruption, money-laundering and other criminal offences.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-430
08-01-2021||India||Plea to free up minority panel ||The Supreme Court on Thursday issued notice to the Centre on a petition seeking the removal of government control over the appointment of the chairperson and members of the National Commission for Minority Educational Institutions. A bench of Justices L. Nageswara Rao, Navin Sinha and Indu Malhotra sought the government’s response on the Jamiat Ulema-I-Hind’s plea that the power to appoint the chairperson be vested with the Chief Justice of India, akin to the appointment process adopted for a number of quasi-judicial tribunals. The commission advises the central and state governments on questions relating to the education of minorities that may be referred to it. It may enquire, suo motu, or on a petition presented to it by a minority educational institution or any person on its behalf into complaints regarding deprivation or violation of rights of minorities to establish and administer educational institutions of their choice and any dispute relating to affiliation to a university. The commission has to report its findings to the appropriate government for its implementation. It also has the power to intervene in any court proceedings involving deprivation or violation of the educational rights of the minorities, with the leave of the court. The petition filed through advocate Wajeeh Shafiq pleaded that “…it is expedient in the interest of maintenance of independence of the judiciary that appointment of the chairman and the members of the said commission are done by the respondent on the recommendations of the committee to be constituted by the Hon’ble Chief Justice of India”. As per Section 3 of the National Commission for Minority Educational Institutions Act, 2004, the commission shall consist of a chairperson and three members. The chairperson should be a retired high court judge, while the members should be persons of eminence, ability and integrity. According to the Act, the National Commission for Minority Educational Institutions enjoys all the trappings of a civil court trying a civil suit, including the power to execute its own orders as decrees of a civil court. It also enjoys the provisions of the Code of Civil Procedure. Under Section 12 of the Act, proceedings before the commission are judicial in nature. The orders passed by it are final and can only be challenged before the Supreme Court or high courts under Articles 226 and 227 of the Constitution. The petition pointed out that the commission is not amongst the 19 tribunals, like the NHRC or the NCLAT, which are dealt with under the Tribunal, Appellate Tribunal and other Authorities (Qualification, Experience and other Conditions of Service of Members), Rules 2020. To ensure independence of their functioning and insulate them from bureaucratic or extraneous influence, most of these commissions’ chairpersons are appointed by a panel headed by the Chief Justice of India. The petitioner has sought a similar arrangement for the National Commission for Minority Educational Institutions.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-430
08-01-2021||India||China mum on border talks||The Chinese People’s Liberation Army is said to have hardened its stand and continues to resist New Delhi’s demand for disengagement and de-escalation of troops from multiple friction points in Ladakh and wants India to accept the new Line of Actual Control, sources in the defence ministry said. A ministry official said the PLA had also not been responding to India’s request for the ninth round of military talks between the two sides. It has been two months since India and China held the eighth round of military talks on November 6, which failed to achieve any breakthrough. Both sides had then agreed to continue the dialogue process to resolve the border standoff. “The Chinese side is yet to agree to the ninth rounds of military talks that was supposed to take place by mid-November. They have hardened their stand and have not yet confirmed the dates for the corps commander-level meeting. We are still waiting for their confirmation,” the official said. There is a growing feeling in the security establishment that the PLA is working to establish a “revised status quo” that will allow the Chinese army to hold on to its newly acquired positions within India-claimed lines. Although there is no official word from either the government or the Indian Army on the specifics of the disengagement plan discussed during the eight round of talks, military veterans have questioned the Centre’s silence on the Indian demand for the restoration of status quo ante. “It’s shocking that the government is no longer talking about our demand for restoration of status quo. It is high time the government comes clean on the specifics of the purported disengagement plan being discussed with the Chinese side,” said a veteran. He pointed out that defence minister Rajnath Singh had last month spoken of China’s “unprovoked aggression” in eastern Ladakh but did not say where the two sides stood on disengagement. Another veteran said: “Some media reports earlier had suggested that the Chinese side, during the eighth round of military talks, had indicated that India should accept the new status quo. The government’s silence on this is deafening.” Indian and Chinese troops have been locked in a face-off at multiple points — the Pangong Lake, Hot Springs and the Depsang Plains — since May. As many as 19 rounds of military and diplomatic talks have taken place since May but nothing much has changed on the ground, an official of the Intelligence Branch said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-430
08-01-2021||India||Modi labels Capitol siege as 'unlawful protests'||Prime Minister Narendra Modi joined world leaders on Thursday in urging a smooth transition of power in Washington but his label of “unlawful protests” for the Trumpist rampage in the US was seen here as a comment on the ongoing farmers’ agitation. “Distressed to see news about rioting and violence in Washington DC. Orderly and peaceful transfer of power must continue. The democratic process cannot be allowed to be subverted through unlawful protests,” Modi tweeted as India woke up to news of the storming of the Capitol Hill overnight. Modi’s choice of words stood out particularly because US President-elect Joe Biden had specifically said the storming of Capitol Hill was not a protest. Asking President Donald Trump to call an end to the siege, Biden had in his address said: “It’s not protest. It’s insurrection.” The subtext of Modi’s second sentence was clear to Indians across the political divide, given how his government had repeatedly projected its ability to win elections as a stamp of popular approval for its policies, and used it to silence critics. While Modi’s supporters quickly underlined that one such protest was going on right outside Delhi’s borders, his critics stressed that protests were an integral part of democracy and that what had happened in Washington was an attempt to violently overturn an election result. The Modi government’s ecosystem has for weeks been maligning the farmers’ movement, which has remained unrelenting but peaceful, and his remark was seen as yet another instance of verbal manipulation by the master of the medium. The protesting farmers too asked how it could be all right for the Prime Minister to comment on America’s internal matters after his government had castigated Canadian Prime Minister Justin Trudeau for backing Indian farmers’ right to protest peacefully. Reacting to Modi’s tweet, CPIML Liberation general secretary Kavita Krishnan said: “Hey @PMOIndia @narendramodi — white supremacists out to overthrow US Govt is not ‘protest’ — it’s a coup. No ‘protest’ is ‘unlawful’. Farmers’ & anti-CAA protests are peaceful. The white supremacists in the US are the brothers of Kapil Mishra & your Hindu-supremacist brethren.” Poet Husain Haidry tweeted: “Of course it will be called ‘Unlawful Protest’. That’s what one is scared of the most right now. Also, actual comparison is: RSS members being violent in Delhi when BJP loses in 2024 and Modi has to resign as Prime Minister.” Haidry was trolled for his optimism. The sighting of an Indian Tricolour among the American flags and pro-Trump banners held up by the mob that stormed Capitol Hill also became a subject of debate as it drew attention to the commonalities between the core vote banks of the US President and the Indian Prime Minister. BJP parliamentarian Varun Gandhi attracted flak by tweeting “Why is there an Indian flag there??? This is one fight we definitely don’t need to participate in...,” the debate throwing into relief how Modi had hosted two election-style rallies for Trump: HowdyModi and NamasteTrump. “Unfortunately, @varungandhi80, there are some Indians with the same mentality as that Trumpist mob, who enjoy using the flag as a weapon rather than a badge of pride, & denounce all who disagree with them as anti-nationals & traitors. That flag there is a warning to all of us,” tweeted Congress MP Shashi Tharoor.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-430
08-01-2021||India||Supreme Court airs Covid concern over farmers||The Supreme Court on Thursday asked the Centre to clarify whether adequate safeguards and Covid-19 protocols were being followed by the farmers protesting at Delhi’s borders and feared that “problems” similar to those that arose during the Tablighi Jamaat event last year could recur. “You must tell us what is happening. I don’t know if farmers are protected from Covid,” Chief Justice S.A. Bobde told solicitor-general Tushar Mehta during the hearing into an appeal for a CBI probe into the allegedly illegal Tablighi Jamaat gathering in Delhi during the Covid-induced lockdown in April-May 2020. “Same problem may arise at the farmers’ protest too,” CJI Bobde said. The bench, also having Justices A.S. Bopanna and V. Ramasubramanian, told Mehta: “We are trying to ensure that Covid does not spread, ensure guidelines issued are followed.” The Tablighi Jamaat gathering at the Nizamuddin Markaz had been subjected to a vilification campaign by the government, the BJP ecosystem and sections of the media, with the participants being blamed for the initial spread of the pandemic in India and efforts being made to tarnish the minority community as a whole. The detentions of the participants have not withstood legal scrutiny in courts across the country. On Thursday, Mehta agreed to the Supreme Court’s concerns and said he would revert after verifying the situation from the authorities concerned. The bench made the observation while dealing with a PIL by Jammu and Kashmir-based petitioner Supriya Panditya seeking a CBI probe into the circumstances leading to the alleged illegal assembly at the Tablighi Jamaat convention when the entire country was under a lockdown. The petitioner has questioned the role of the Centre, the Delhi government and Delhi police in risking the health of millions of citizens by allowing the huge congregation that also had many foreign delegates. The apex court at that time had issued notice to the government in connection with the same PIL. The government had opposed the plea for a CBI probe, saying Delhi police were investigating on a day-to-day basis. According to the Centre, besides prosecuting the alleged offenders under various IPC sections and for violation of the Passports Act, the government had blacklisted 960 foreigners from future travel to the country. Advocate Omprakash Parihar, appearing for the petitioner, told the court during the brief hearing that one of the main organisers of the Jamaat, Maulana Saad, was untraceable. The court adjourned the matter till Monday to enable the Centre to file its response on the Jamaat probe plea and the steps taken to ensure that the protesting farmers observe all Covid protocols. The bench also posted for hearing on Monday another petition for declaring the provisions of the three new farm laws as unconstitutional, illegal and void. The petition has been filed by P. Ayyakannu, state president of the National South Indian River Interlinking Agriculturist Sangam.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-430
08-01-2021||India||Farmers snub Centre on state leeway ||The government on Thursday purportedly floated a proposal that would allow state governments the final say on the implementation of the three contentious farm laws, a day ahead of the eighth round of talks with protesting farmers. The suggestion, however, was dismissed by the Sanyukta Kisan Morcha (SKM), the umbrella organisation of the protesters, as another attempt by the Narendra Modi government to put up a show of accommodation. As of Thursday evening, the SKM had not received any such proposal, which was reported by the Punjabi media after spiritual leader Baba Lakha Singh met agriculture minister Narendra Singh Tomar. Yogendra Yadav of the Jai Kisan Andolan, a constituent of the SKM, said the proposal was just an attempt at media management by the Modi government so that attention is diverted from the successful tractor rally taken out by farmers along the Kundli-Manesar-Palwal Expressway on Thursday as a rehearsal for their parade planned for Republic Day if the farmers’ demand for repeal of the three laws are not met. “They did the same thing on December 8, after our successful Bharat Bandh. Home minister Amit Shah called us for a discussion in a skilful exercise of headline management, and the focus of coverage shifted from the bandh to the meeting he had convened,” Yadav said. As for the proposal that is being talked about, there appears to be a consensus among the farmers that it should be rejected as all the 450-plus farmer unions in the SKM are unanimous that the three laws cannot be accepted in any form. Add to this the experience of the amendments introduced by the Modi government to the land acquisition law in 2015. Though the central government put it on the backburner in the face of resistance, several state governments have been tweaking the law to dilute the provisions of the original law. Given the political divide over the farm laws, the farmers fear that BJP-ruled states would implement them in keeping with the party policy and Prime Minister Modi’s diktats. And, the Modi government could also arm twist Opposition-ruled state governments to fall in line or an election in non-NDA states could bring in the BJP. “Repeal is the only way out or these laws will always be hanging over our heads like the Sword of Damocles,” said a union leader, pointing out that it would not be easy to mobilise the farming community in this manner again if the momentum is allowed to fizzle away.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-431
08-01-2021||India||Soldier faces stick over farmers' protest||The army will discipline a serving soldier for participating in a farmers’ protest in Punjab last month, an army official told The Telegraph on Thursday. He said the army and other security agencies were trying to identify two other jawans who had posted videos on Twitter criticising the new farm laws and defending the protesters. All three appear to be posted in Jammu and Kashmir, and all three have slammed government supporters’ vilification of the protesters, sources said. The country’s top political leadership is growing increasingly worried about the impact the farmers’ protest is having on military personnel from Punjab and Haryana, most of whom are from farming families, sources in the security establishment said. Army rules prohibit serving personnel from participating in demonstrations. Many ex-servicemen from Punjab and Haryana, including medal-winning veterans of wars against Pakistan, have been participating in the farmers’ agitation on Delhi’s borders. “Commanders have been asked to sensitise soldiers about the army rules that forbid participation in any protest,” the army official said. A widely circulated photograph on social media shows a sepoy in army uniform and a camouflage mask participating in a farmers’ protest outside the deputy commissioner’s office in Bathinda, Punjab. He carries a placard that says: “My father is a farmer. If he is a terrorist then I am also a terrorist.” Several BJP leaders have maligned the protesters as Khalistanis or Maoist stooges. An inquiry has revealed the soldier was visiting his home in Bathinda on leave from his posting in Jammu and Kashmir, the army official said. “Disciplinary action will soon be initiated against the soldier. His action violates the Army Act 1950, which bars participation in protests,” the official said. He did not identify the soldier, nor say what action he might face. The army has officially not said anything on the matter. In the Twitter videos uploaded by the other two jawans, who appear to be from the army too, they have said their parents have been protesting the new farm laws while they are protecting the nation in Jammu and Kashmir. They have asked how they can be called “anti-national”.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-431
08-01-2021||India||Minister Pralhad Joshi outlines Nalco plan||Union coal and mines minister Pralhad Joshi on Thursday said Nalco (National Aluminium Company Limited), a Navaratna company based in Odisha, would invest Rs 30,000 crore for its expansion plan. “Nalco being a significant contributor in the alumina and aluminium sectors, it is essential that the company goes for its planned expansion,” Joshi said while addressing the 41st foundation day celebrations of the company here. He said: “The Rs 30,000-crore expansion plan of Nalco, spread over the next seven–eight years, will include the expansion of its refinery by 1 million tonnes, adding the 3.5 million tonnes capacity Pottangi bauxite mines and operationalisation of the Utkal D and E coal blocks. Enhancement of its aluminium smelting capacity by 0.5 million tonnes and captive power plant by another approximately 1,200MW through brownfield expansions at Angul district of Odisha has been also envisaged in this growth plan.” Joshi also stressed on the fact that there exists a huge scope for increasing the per capita consumption of aluminium in the country and it is the right time for the Indian aluminium industries to ramp up their production and leverage this opportunity. “The annual consumption is stated to grow manifold with demand picking up under the Government of India’s Atmanirbhar (self-reliant) Bharat initiative in sectors like power, building and construction, packaging, automobile manufacturing and transportation,” he said. Nalco chairman and managing director Sridhar Patra highlighted the company’s significant performance in the last fiscal, including the export earnings that accounted for about 59 per cent of the sales turnover in the first half of this financial year.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-431
08-01-2021||India||BJP, BJD clash over murder in Odisha ||The BJP and the BJD on Thursday traded charges over the murder of senior Odisha BJP leader Kulamani Baral and his associate Dibyasingh Baral. Both were allegedly hacked to death last Saturday while they were returning home on a motorcycle near their village under Mahanga Assembly constituency in Cuttack district, around 70km from here. The BJP has upped the ante after Mahanga MLA and law minister Pratap Jena’s name figured in the FIR. Kulamani’s son Ramakanta has accused the minister of being involved in the murder. After meeting the family members of the slain leaders in Nrutanga village in Cuttack district on Thursday, BJP’s Odisha in-charge D. Purandeswari said: “The family members of Kulamani and Dibyasingh have alleged that law minister Pratap Jena, who hails from that area, played a role in the crime. “Why has the state government been silent over the issue and not initiated any action against him? What prevents the government from doing so?” Coming down heavily on the state government, she said: “One of our leaders from the area, Bikash Jena, had been killed last year as he exposed irregularities in the Pradhan Mantri Awas Yojana. Now Kulamani Baral has become a victim for raising the issue.” “It’s time chief minister Naveen Patnaik opened his eyes and ears and saw what was happening in the state,” she added. Former director-general of police and senior BJP leader Prakash Mishra alleged that local police officers were being influenced and were not properly investigating the matter. “Before his death Dibyasingh had taken names of some people who were behind the crime. His last words should be treated as dying declaration. But the investigation is not going in the right direction.” Hitting back at the BJP, BJD spokesperson and MP Sasmit Patra said: “Purandeswari is perhaps unaware that the BJD government has zero tolerance in matters of violence and has always taken the strictest action against the culprits. “It is because of such measures that people of Odisha have elected the BJD government five times in a row.” He further said: “It seems Purandareswari is unaware that the accused in the Mahanga case were arrested within 48 hours along with the main accused who had hit the victims with the murder weapon.” Patra said that strictest possible action has already been taken in the case. “The victims will surely get justice. The BJD government is committed to it,” he said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-431
08-01-2021||India||Gang war rocks Lucknow||A gangster was assassinated on a busy street in an upscale Lucknow neighbourhood on Wednesday night, the shootout involving more than a dozen shots that sent people running helter-skelter and injured at least one passer-by. Eyewitnesses said that amid the chaos after the 8.30pm gunfight, an accomplice of the three killers nonchalantly walked up to victim Ajit Singh, 45, to make sure he was dead, suggesting it was a professional job. Police attributed the killing of the underworld don from Mau district, who faces 17 criminal cases, to gangland rivalry but would not name a suspect. Officers said Lucknow had seen such audacious street shootings in the late 1990s and feared that another bout of gang warfare was imminent. Ajit and associate Mohar Singh had got off their SUV and appeared headed for an apartment complex near the Kathauta Crossing at the Gomti Nagar Extension when three waiting men fired at them, eyewitnesses said. The police said the killers used 9mm pistols. Ajit and Mohar fired back while running back towards their SUV. The eyewitnesses said an injured Ajit somehow staggered into the vehicle while a bleeding Mohar disappeared down the road. With Ajit’s gun falling silent, a man approached the SUV, apparently to make sure he was dead. On a signal from him, the three assassins got on a single motorcycle and left. Officers said two loaded 9mm pistols — a popular weapon among criminal gangs — had been found inside the SUV. Ajit was hit eight times all over his body while Mohar, who returned after a while and was sitting on the ground when the police arrived, had three bullets in his legs. Akash Kumar, a passing food delivery man in his early 20s, took a bullet near his shoulder. A woman constable took him to hospital. Unconfirmed reports said a second unidentified passer-by was hit and injured. Officers suggested two possible motives behind the killing: one, to stop Ajit joining politics and two, to silence him as a witness in a murder case against another gangster, Dhruv Kumar Singh. Ajit had been with Sarvesh Singh Sipu, a former Samajwadi Party MLA from Azamgarh, when he was shot dead in 2013. Co-accused Dhruv and Akhand Singh are in jail. “Broadly, there are four big gangs in Uttar Pradesh. We don’t know what the equations between them are at the moment, or which smaller gang is with whom. These criminals keep double-crossing each other,” a police officer in Lucknow said, requesting anonymity. “Every gang-lord is preparing the ground to contest Assembly elections in future, while their friends and foes are trying to prevent them joining politics. We don’t know who wants what and why.” He added: “Similar ambitions among underworld dons were witnessed in the late 1990s, and the result was a series of gang wars.” Lucknow police commissioner D.K. Thakur told reporters that Ajit had been “very close to the Mukhtar Ansari gang”. Ansari is a Bahujan Samaj Party member and a fifth-time MLA from Mau. Of the 17 cases in the Mau and Azamgarh districts against Ajit, a former block pramukh of Mohammadabad Gohana in Mau, 6 had reached the trial stage. Ajit, arrested in 2015 but given bail, had a few months ago been externed (expelled) from Mau by the district administration. The Adityanath government has handed the murder investigation to the special task force (STF), formed in April 1998 by the then Kalyan Singh administration to arrest or kill a don, Shri Prakash Shukla. The STF tracked Shukla for five months and shot him dead in Ghaziabad. Shukla had been the chief architect of a dozen gang fights that Lucknow had witnessed between 1996 and 1998, the most high-profile among them being the murder of Independent MLA Virendra Shahi. Sources said a diary the STF had seized after killing Shukla mentioned his contacts, who allegedly included many politicians from the then ruling BJP. The details were never made public. The 2005 Bollywood movie Sehar and the recent web series Rangbaaz are said to have been based partly on Shukla’s exploits.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-431
08-01-2021||India||Aid for Brahmin brides with community rider||The Karnataka government’s plan to financially support Brahmin brides from poor families has kicked up a row because of the condition that the beneficiaries must marry within the community. The Karnataka State Brahmin Development Board recently announced two schemes to help brides from impoverished Brahmin families. While cash benefits of Rs 25,000 will be provided under the Arundathi scheme to brides from the community, those marrying Brahmin priests will be provided Rs 3 lakh under the Maitreyi programme. But what has come in for widespread criticism is the condition that the beneficiaries ought to be from the same community and registered on the board’s web portal by producing their caste certificates. Board chairman H.S. Sachidananda Murthy did not answer repeated calls from The Telegraph. Earlier, he had told the local media that the idea was to “uplift women from economically weak Brahmin families”. He justified the higher benefit for marrying priests and said the amount could be used to start an alternative source of income, like a small shop. Murthy said the beneficiaries must produce their caste and income certificates to register under the two schemes. But it should be the first marriage of the couple and they should give an undertaking that they would be married for at least five years. The BJP government formed the board in July 2019 and launched several programmes for the needy from the Brahmin community that forms about 3 per cent of the 6.5 crore population of the state. While it is by no means the only caste-based development board in the state replete with such entities for most of the influential communities, it is the condition of marrying within the community that has triggered outrage. “This is a gross violation of the fundamental rights enshrined in the Constitution and can be challenged in court,” state Congress spokesman V.G. Ugrappa told this newspaper on Thursday. “It is the bride’s right to choose her man, just like it is the man’s right to choose his bride. So this order is against the spirit of our Constitution and infringes on its provisions concerning rights and liberties,” Ugrappa, a senior lawyer, added. He recalled how Brahmin boys and girls have often married into other communities and lived happily in the state. “It’s very unfortunate that the BJP government is encouraging this kind of casteist tendencies with tax payers’ money, that too in the 21st century,” Ugrappa said. It was chief minister B.S. Yediyurappa’s predecessor H.D. Kumaraswamy who had first mooted the idea of a Brahmin development board when he headed the Janata Dal Secular-Congress coalition government. He had promised to set aside Rs 25 crore for the board before his government collapsed in 2019. Former chairman of the Karnataka State Commission for Backward Classes, C.S. Dwarakanath, told this newspaper that such riders for government benefits are never applied on any community. “There are similar schemes for other communities also. But none of them impose such conditions that the beneficiaries should marry only from their own community,” Dwarakanath said. He had headed the commission from 2007 to 2010 when Yediyurappa was chief minister. “During my tenure I had even proposed monetary assistance to couples in inter-caste marriage to encourage more people to step out of caste barriers. But none of the subsequent governments implemented it,” Dwarakanath lamented. Noted Dalit writer Mahesh Chandra Guru slammed the BJP government for encouraging the caste system. “Such regressive schemes will only fuel more caste differences in the society,” he said, urging the government to intervene and allow the benefits to all Brahmin girls, irrespective of who she marries. “This is a violation of the fundamental rights of poor Brahmin women who are being shackled in the iron chains of caste system,” Guru said, adding that men in his family had married Brahmin women without any issue. “I have three sisters-in-law and an aunt who are Brahmins. All of them live happily without any issue. But this kind of conditions will affect such unions based on the choice of two individuals,” he said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-431
08-01-2021||India||Designer Satya Paul is no more||Ace fashion designer Satya Paul, known for giving the Indian saree a contemporary touch, has passed away at the age of 79, his son Puneet Nanda said. Paul, who had suffered a stroke in December, breathed his last at Sadhguru’s Isha Yoga Center on Wednesday. “He had a stroke on December 2 and as he was slowly recovering in the hospital, his only wish was to get all the things he was being monitored and poked with — removed so he could fly away. We finally got clearance from doctors to take him back to Isha Yoga Center, his home since 2015. As per his wish, he gently passed on with blessings of the Master,” Nanda wrote on Facebook. Nanda said though there’s grief for his father’s loss, the family is also celebrating the wholesome life the designer led. “He couldn’t have had a sweeter life or passage, at the feet of the Master. We are sad a bit, mostly rejoicing him, his life and now his passing with such a blessing,” Nanda wrote. Sadhguru, founder, Isha Foundation, tweeted a picture of Paul to condole the demise of the “visionary” fashion designer. “Satya Paul, a shining example of what it means to live with immeasurable passion and unrelenting involvement. The distinct vision you brought to the Indian fashion industry is a beautiful tribute to this. A privilege to have had you amongst us. Condolences and blessings,” Sadhguru tweeted. Paul started his journey in the field of retail in the late 60s and expanded to exports of Indian handloom products to high-end retail stores in Europe and America. In 1980, he launched the first “saree boutique” in India, L’Affaire, and founded the eponymous fashion clothing brand with his son in 1986. The brand soon became synonymous for its sleek sarees. Nanda wrote that his father, more than a designer or entrepreneur, was a “seeker”. “In the 70s his inner journey started with going to listen to talks with J. Krishnamurty, later he took ‘sannyas’ (renunciation) from Osho. After Osho left in 1990, though he wasn’t seeking another Master, he discovered Sadhguru in 2007,” he said. “He immediately started enjoying the path of yoga and eventually moved here in 2015. He has been a doorway for hundreds of people towards spirituality and all the Masters he was so blessed to have been with,” he added.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-431
08-01-2021||India||Education minister silent on IIT language option||The IITs appear to have kept in abeyance the government’s decision to introduce engineering courses in regional languages from 2021. Education minister Ramesh Pokhriyal on Thursday announced that the Joint Entrance Examination-Advanced would be held on July 3 and that the eligibility requirement of 75 per cent marks in Class XII board exams would be relaxed, but did not make any mention of the language options of the test or whether courses would be offered in the respective mother tongues of states. Two officials of IIT Kharagpur told The Telegraph that the exam, to select students for the IITs, would be held as usual in Hindi and English. They said the regional language option for the exam and the courses could be possible from 2022. Last November, the Press Information Bureau had said in a media release that a meeting chaired by Pokhriyal had taken the decision to introduce engineering courses in regional languages at the IITs and the NITs from the coming academic year. A blueprint proposed by an RSS-affiliated organisation for such an arrangement had been accepted by the education ministry. According to the proposal, students taking the entrance exam in the regional languages would be ranked separately and each IIT would offer a limited number of seats in the mother tongue of the state where the institute is located, apart from English. But when the matter was discussed with IIT directors, many expressed concerns such as lack of study materials in regional languages, teachers’ preparedness, possible lack of job opportunities for students opting for courses in the mother tongue and a probable dent to the international advantage of IIT graduates mainly because of English being the medium of instruction, according to sources. A task force was set up, headed by higher education secretary Amit Khare and having some of the IIT directors. The taskforce also aired similar concerns in its report. “Introduction of engineering courses in the mother tongue is not possible in 2021. This is clear,” one of the two IIT Kharagpur officials said. Last month, Pokhriyal had announced that the language options for JEE Main would be increased from three to 13 in 2021. This had kept alive hopes of a similar arrangement for the IIT Advanced. The top 2.5 lakh students from the JEE Main are allowed to take the JEE Advanced.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-431
08-01-2021||India||Plea to remove Amitabh Bachchan’s coronavirus voice from caller tunes||A PIL has been filed in Delhi High Court seeking direction to the Centre to remove Amitabh Bachchan’s voice from the caller tune on precautions against coronavirus on the grounds that the virus had infected him, along with some his family members. The plea, which said there were some famous corona warriors who were willing to give their services for free, came up for hearing on Thursday before a bench of Chief Justice D.N. Patel and Justice Jyoti Singh. The bench listed it for January 18 as the petitioner’s counsel expressed inability to appear for physical hearing. The petition has been filed by Delhi resident and social worker Rakesh. “The government of India has been paying fees to Amitabh Bachchan for chanting such preventive measures on the caller ringtone, said the plea, filed through advocates A. K. Dubey and Pawan Kumar. “There are some corona warriors who have been doing great service to the nation and helping poor and people in their needy times as well as providing them food, cloth and shelter and it is very indispensable to mention herein that some corona warriors have distributed their hard earnings among the poor and needy,” the plea said. It added that some famous corona warriors are ready to give their services without any payment and are ready to serve the nation. “Amitabh Bachchan is not having a clean history as well as he is not serving the nation being a social worker,” the plea alleged, while referring to several matters pending against him in various courts. The petitioner said he made representation to the authorities in November 2020 but no reply was given to him after which he approached the court with his grievance.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-431
08-01-2021||India||Sonia Gandhi: India standing at crossroads||Congress president Sonia Gandhi on Thursday said the “autocratic and cruel” Narendra Modi government was hell-bent on breaking the back of the farmers and the middle class who were grappling with coronavirus and ill-effects of economic recession at a very difficult time in national life. Sonia said in a statement: “India is for the time in post-Independence India standing at the crossroads. On one hand, the food-givers of the country are sitting outside Delhi borders in defence of their valid demands. On the other hand, the autocratic, insensitive and cruel BJP government is hell-bent on breaking the back of poor farmers and the middle class.” “Modi government is busy looking for opportunities in the tragedy (Modi had said, ‘aapda mein awsar’), to fill its coffers amidst the economy devastated by corona. The price of crude oil today is $50.96 per barrel, which means barely Rs 23.43 per litre. But diesel sold at Rs 74.38 per litre and petrol at Rs 84.20 per litre. This is the highest in the last 73 years,” she added. Alleging that the government had derailed the middle-class family budget by increasing the LPG price, Sonia said: “The government has broken all records of profiteering by increasing excise duty on petroleum products despite low rates of crude oil in international market. The Modi government has extracted at least Rs 19 lakh crore from the people in the last six years by increasing excise duty on petroleum products. I demand the excise duty be brought down to the level of what it was during the UPA regime and provide immediate relief to the distressed people.” “I also make a strong demand for scrapping the three farm laws,” she added. Rahul Gandhi also tweeted: “There has been wonderful development in the prices of petrol-diesel. The Modi government has been looting the public by levying heavy taxes on petroleum products. That’s the reason why the government is not willing to bring petrol-diesel under the GST net.” Party’s communications chief Randeep Surjewala also said: “When Modi government assumed office in May 2014, crude oil was $108 per barrel, which is Rs 6,330 per barrel. Now the crude oil price in international market is $50 per barrel, which is Rs 3,725.92 per barrel. In 2014, petrol was sold at Rs 71.41 per litre and diesel at Rs 55.49 per litre. Now petrol is Rs 84.20 and diesel Rs 74.38 per litre. This is the game of loot.” Surjewala added: “In May 2014, the excise duty on petrol was Rs 9.20 per litre and on diesel Rs 3.46 per litre. Today, the excise duty on petrol is Rs 23.78 per litre (258 per cent increase) and Rs 28.37 per litre (820 per cent increase) on diesel. The government that came to power promising cheap petrol and diesel has looted Rs 19 lakh crore from the common people in the last years through high taxes. If the additional taxes levied by Modi are rolled back, petrol can be sold at Rs 60.42 and diesel at Rs 46.01 per litre. The LPG cost in 2014 was Rs 412 and now it is Rs 694.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-431
