09-01-2021||India||Farmers’ Rights Day: Congress to hold ‘Jan Andolans’, gherao governors’ offices||The Congress on Saturday said it will hold protest marches and gherao the governor’s office in every state on January 1, when the government and the farmer unions will meet for the next round of talks, and hold ‘Jan Andolans’ at all state headquarters. Congress chief spokesperson Randeep Surjewala asked the Centre why it wants farmer groups opposed to the new agricultural reforms to move the Supreme Court and said Prime Minister Narendra Modi should quit if he is not competent enough to repeal them. The decision to observe ‘Kisan Adhikar Diwas’ (Farmers' Rights Day) on January 15 was taken after a meeting of the party’s general secretaries and in-charges in various states. Surjewala asked, “People have elected this government and not the Supreme Court. Then why does the government want people to go elsewhere?” “The Modi government is answerable to the people for taking decisions and not the Supreme Court. The responsibility of making and repealing the laws wrests with Parliament and not the court,” he said. He added that if the Modi government is unable to discharge its responsibility, “the Congress wants that you should resign and sit at home as you have no moral authority to remain in power even for a minute”. Surjewala alleged the farm laws were forcibly passed by the Modi government in Parliament by “crushing democracy”. “This is the first government in the history of India which is woefully abdicating its responsibility and telling the farmers to approach the Supreme Court and the sooner the Modi government vacates the throne, the better it would be for the country,” he said. The eighth round of talks between the government and the farmer unions on Friday did not make any headway as the Centre ruled out repealing the three contentious laws while the farmer leaders said they are ready to fight till death and their 'ghar waapsi' will happen only after ‘law waapsi’. Later, prominent farmer leader Balbir Singh Rajewal told PTI that the government suggested to the unions that why don't they become a party in the ongoing case on three farm laws in the Supreme Court. The unions ‘outrightly’ rejected the suggestion, he had said. Surjewala said the Supreme Court should also introspect as to why the farmers are not ready to approach it. “When 62 crore farmers in the country refuse to go to the Supreme Court, the court should also look within,” he told reporters. He asked why the government seeks to find solutions to different issues, be it the Citizenship Amendment Act or the Rafale deal, in the Supreme Court and not in Parliament. The Congress spokesperson said the farmers will neither tire out nor surrender, and the Modi government should shed its arrogance and repeal the farm laws.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-425
09-01-2021||India||BJP smells danger after Twitter suspends Trump’s account||Following Twitter’s move of permanently suspending US President Donald Trump’s account, BJP leaders on Saturday expressed concerns over it, dubbing it as a “dangerous precedent”. They said it is a wake-up call for democracies about the threat from unregulated big tech companies. Twitter has permanently suspended Trump’s account citing a “risk of further incitement of violence”, days after his supporters stormed the US Capitol that resulted in the death of five so far. “If they can do this to the President of the US (POTUS), they can do this to anyone. Sooner India reviews intermediaries’ regulations, better for our democracy,” BJP Youth Wing president Tejaswi Surya said in a tweet. He said the suspension of Trump’s account is a wake-up call for those who do not yet understand the threat to democracies from unregulated big tech companies. Echoing similar sentiments, BJP’s IT cell head Amit Malviya said, “Deplatforming Donald Trump, a sitting US president, sets a dangerous precedent. It has less to do with his views and more to do with intolerance for a differing point.” He said those who claim to champion free speech are celebrating and dubbed big tech firms as “new oligarchs”. Pitching for regulating such firms, Surya said dissent is fundamental to democracy and the government welcomes it, but only constitutional authorities can decide on its reasonability. Lately, big tech companies have themselves assumed this role, he said, adding, “Time for us to regulate big tech companies.” Surya, who is also a member of the Parliamentary Standing Committee on Information Technology, said Facebook and Twitter serve as platforms for expression and they should not curtail people’s will. In a statement on Friday, Twitter said after a close review of recent tweets from the @realDonaldTrump account and the context around those -- specifically how those are being received and interpreted on and off the social media platform -- the account has been permanently suspended due to the risk of further incitement of violence. At the time of the permanent suspension, Trump had 88.7 million followers and followed 51 people.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-425
09-01-2021||India||India’s Covid vaccination drive to kick off on January 16||The Covid-19 vaccination drive in India will begin on January 16, the Union government said on Saturday evening, following a high-level meeting led by Prime Minister Narendra Modi on the pandemic situation and the vaccine preparedness in the country. “After the detailed review, it was decided that in view of the forthcoming festivals including Lohri, Makar Sankranti, Pongal, Magh Bihu, etc, the Covid-19 vaccination will start from January 16, 2021,” a government statement said. “After three crore healthcare and frontline workers, priority will be given to those above 50 years of age and the under-50 population groups with co-morbidities numbering around 27 crore,” it added. “Emergency Use Authorisation or Accelerated Approval has been granted by the National Regulator for two vaccines (Covishield and Covaxin) which have established safety and immunogenicity,” the government said. Later, Modi tweeted that India will take a landmark step forward in fighting Covid-19 on January 16. “Starting that day, India’s nationwide vaccination drive begins. Priority will be given to our brave doctors, healthcare workers, frontline workers including Safai Karamcharis (sanitation workers),” the prime minister said. India had recently granted emergency use authorisation to two vaccines, Oxford's Covishield being manufactured by Serum Institute in India and Bharat Biotech's Covaxin. Both vaccines, the statement from the Health Ministry said, have established safety and immunogenicity. In the review meeting, Modi was also briefed about the Co-WIN vaccine delivery management system, a unique digital platform that will provide real-time information of vaccine stocks, their storage temperature and individualised tracking of beneficiaries of the COVID-19 vaccine. This platform will assist the programme managers across all levels through automated session allocation for pre-registered beneficiaries, their verification and for generating a digital certificate upon successful completion of the vaccine schedule. “More than 79 lakh beneficiaries have been already registered on the platform,” the statement said. “As the vaccinators and vaccine administrators comprise a crucial pillar of the vaccination exercise, their training process was also detailed out in the meeting, and it was noted that 2,360 participants were trained during a national-level exercise (training of trainers) comprising state immunisation officers, cold chain officers, IEC officials and development partners among others. More than 61,000 programme managers, two lakh vaccinators and 3.7 lakh other vaccination team members have been trained so far as part of training at states, districts and block levels,” it said. Three phases of dry runs have been conducted across the country, with the third dry run conducted on Friday across 615 districts covering 4895 session sites in 33 states and UTs. The Health Ministry said the entire vaccination exercise is underpinned by the principles of people's participation (Jan Bhagidari); utilising the experience of elections (booth strategy) and universal immunization programme (UIP). No compromise on existing healthcare services, especially national programmes and primary health care, and of scientific and regulatory norms besides other SOPs will be made, and the vaccination programme will be marked by an orderly and smooth implementation driven by technology. Earlier at an event, Modi had said that the country is ready with two ‘Made in India’ vaccines, and asserted that the world is not only waiting for them but also watching as to how India runs the globally largest vaccination drive. There are 2,24,190 active cases of coronavirus infection in the country which constitutes 2.16 per cent of the total caseload so far of over 1.04 crore, according to the latest Health Ministry data. More than 1.5 lakh people have died so far. The spread of the virus has lessened in a big way in the country as the daily number of new cases has dropped to less than 20,000 from a peak of almost 98,000 in September last year. However, the overall caseload for India is the second-highest in the world after the US, which has reported more than 2 crore cases so far -- almost double of India's cumulative tally. In terms of deaths also, the US has recorded the most at nearly 3.7 lakh, followed by over 2 lakh in Brazil and about 1.5 lakh in India. India tops the global charts for recovery with more than 1 crore having recuperated after contracting the deadly virus.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-426
09-01-2021||India||Chinese soldier held by Indian troops in eastern Ladakh||A Chinese soldier was apprehended by Indian troops from an area south of the Pangong lake in eastern Ladakh in the early hours of January 8, official sources said on Saturday. The People’s Liberation Army (PLA) soldier had transgressed into the Indian side of the Line of Actual Control and was taken into custody by Indian troops deployed in the area, they said. “During early hours of 08 January 21, a Chinese soldier was apprehended on the Indian Side of the LAC, in Ladakh, in an area South of Pangong Tso lake. The PLA soldier had transgressed across the LAC and was taken into custody by Indian troops deployed in this area,” NDTV quoted an official as saying. The capture of the Chinese soldier comes in the midst of an eight-month-long bitter border standoff between the two armies in eastern Ladakh. Troops from both sides are deployed along the LAC since the friction erupted last year due to unprecedented mobilisation and forward concentration by Chinese troops. The sources said the PLA soldier is being dealt with as per laid down procedures and circumstances under which he had crossed the LAC are being investigated. India and China have held several rounds of talks at the diplomatic and military-level to resolve the standoff that erupted in early May. At the latest round of foreign ministry-level talks on December 18, the two sides said that they have agreed to continue work towards ensuring complete disengagement of troops in all friction points along the Line of Actual Control (LAC). The meeting also decided to hold the next round of military dialogue at an early date.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-426
09-01-2021||India||Nadda mocks Mamata for being ‘compelled’ to launch PM Kisan Yojna||BJP national president J.P. Nadda Saturday took a dig at Bengal Chief Minister Mamata Banerjee for agreeing to implement PM Kisan Yojna only after realising that her party is fast losing ground among the farmers in the state. Nadda, who launched the ‘Krishak Suraksha Abhiyan’ to woo farmers in the poll-bound state, said it is “too late” for the TMC government to agree to implement the PM Kisan Samman Nidhi. He said the state government was compelled to go for the beneficiary scheme only after coming to know that “anger of the farmers over being deprived of the central schemes will wipe the TMC government in the state”. “The Mamata Banerjee government agreed to implement the PM Kisan Samman Nidhi after such a long time as she has realised that the TMC is fast losing ground in Bengal,” Nadda said while launching the campaign. “But, let me say it clearly that it is already too late for the TMC government,” he added. The TMC government earlier this month softened its stand on implementing the PM Kisan scheme in the state, after more than a year of opposition to the programme. Nadda asserted the farmers rally at Katwa proves that days of Mamata Banerjee government are numbered. He said the BJP would provide justice to the farmers after it forms the next government in Bengal. He arrived at the Jagdanandpur village in Purba Bardhaman district to launch his party's door-to-door rice collection programme aimed at wooing farmers, amid the ongoing protest in Delhi over the contentious agriculture laws. His address at “Krishok Surokkha Gram Sabha” (farmers’ security meeting at village) in Jagadanandpur marks the beginning of 40,000 such meetings to be held by the BJP across West Bengal before the assembly elections. There are 71.23 lakh farmers’ families in West Bengal, 96 per cent of them small and marginal. The saffron party has launched an aggressive campaign in West Bengal in its bid to end the TMC’s 10-year-old reign in the state.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-426
09-01-2021||India||World watching how India runs globe's biggest vaccination drive, says PM||India is ready with two made-in-India vaccines for the protection of humanity and the world is not only waiting for them but also watching as to how the country runs the globe's biggest vaccination programme, Prime Minister Narendra Modi said on Saturday. In his address at the inauguration of the 16th Pravasi Bharatiya Divas (PBD) Convention, Modi also asserted that if democracy is most strong, vibrant and lively anywhere in the world, it is in India. "When India got Independence then it was said that such a poor and under-literate country will disintegrate and democracy was impossible here. Today's truth is that India is united and if democracy is most strong, vibrant and lively anywhere in the world, it is in India," he said. Talking about India's fight against the COVID-19 pandemic, he said the country is among the nations with the lowest fatality rate and the highest recovery rate. Talking about the COVID vaccines rollout, Modi said India is ready with not one but two made-in-India coronavirus vaccines for the protection of humanity. "Being the pharmacy of the world, India has supplied important medicines to all those in need in the world in the past and is also doing so now. The world is not only waiting for Indian vaccines but is also watching how India runs the world biggest vaccination programme," he said. Modi also said that during the pandemic, Indians showed their capabilities and the way the country stood together was unparalleled. He said India is using technology to defeat corruption and crores of rupees are being directly transferred to beneficiaries' bank accounts. "Today we have been connected with the internet from various corners of the world but our minds are always connected with 'Maa Bharti'," he said. "I have had a dialogue with several heads of states who told me how Indian diaspora has extended a helping hand in those countries and provided leadership in extending assistance even in these difficult times," Modi said. "This was a matter of pride for me." He also lauded the Indian diaspora for providing assistance in the battle against coronavirus in India. Modi told the Indian diaspora that the country always stands with them and pointed out that over 45 lakh people were rescued under the government's Vande Bharat mission during the pandemic. Earlier, the keynote address at the 16th PBD Convention 2021 was delivered by chief guest Chandrikapersad Santokhi, the President of Suriname. The theme of 16th PBD Convention 2021 is "Contributing to Aatmanirbhar Bharat".||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-426
09-01-2021||India||More than 18,000 fresh Covid cases, 228 casualties in a day||India's Covid-19 tally climbed to 1,04,31,639 with 18,222 new infections reported in a day, while 1,00,56,651 people have recuperated so far pushing the national recovery rate to 96.41 per cent as on Saturday, according to Union Health Ministry data. There are 2,24,190 active cases in the country which is 2.16 per cent of the total caseload, the data stated. The total coronavirus cases mounted to 1,04,31,639 and the death toll climbed to 1,50,798 with the novel coronavirus virus claiming 228 lives in a span of 24 hours in the country, the data updated at 8 am showed. The Covid-19 case fatality rate stood at 1.45 per cent. According to ICMR, a total of 18,02,53,315 samples have been tested up to January 9 with 9,16,951 samples being tested on Friday. India's Covid-19 tally had crossed the 20-lakh mark on August 7, 30 lakh on August 23 and 40 lakh on September 5. It went past 50 lakh on September 16, 60 lakh on September 28, 70 lakh on October 11 and crossed 80 lakh on October 29 and 90 lakh on November 20 and one crore on December 19. The latest 228 fatalities include 73 from Maharashtra, 21 from West Bengal, 17 from Uttar Pradesh, 10 from Delhi, and eight from Tamil Nadu. The total 1,50,798 deaths reported so far in the country include 49,970 from Maharashtra, followed by 12,134 from Karnataka, 12,208 from Tamil Nadu, 10,654 from Delhi, 9,902 from West Bengal, 8,469 from Uttar Pradesh, 7,127 from Andhra Pradesh, 5,437 from Punjab and 4,335 from Gujarat. The health ministry stressed that more than 70 per cent of the deaths have occurred due to comorbidities. "Our figures are being reconciled with the Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR)," the ministry said on its website, adding that state-wise distribution of figures is subject to further verification and reconciliation.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-426
09-01-2021||India||I am too poor to afford my daughter’s bone marrow transplant Please help ||“I always see Tejaswini in pain while undergoing blood transfusions. The injection really scares her. I simply stand and look at her, helpless. I cannot bear to see her in so much pain, she doesn’t deserve this…” cried Archana. Archana’s daughter, Tejaswini is just 10-years-old. Tejaswini has been fighting Thalassemia, a type of blood disorder. In Thalassemia, the body of an individual has less hemoglobin than normal, which may lead to anemia and cause fatigue. Help Tejaswini She has already been through a lot of pain and misery. Tejaswini is a victim of not only poverty but also a life-threatening disease. She has always dreamt of becoming a dancer when she grows up. Being a wonderful student and a great dancer, she is dear to all her teachers and friends. Tejaswini is fighting like a warrior. She has visited the hospital many times as she needs blood transfusions. Her condition seems to be very critical. This will only get worse and will eventually take her life if her treatment is delayed. As the blood transfusions are making her body miserable the only way to save her is through a bone marrow transplant. This 10-year-old child has been pierced with needles not once but a lot of times. A non-relative is found out to be a 10/10 match and will undergo the bone marrow transplant. Help Tejaswini “Oh lord, you have to show us a way. Please help us save our daughter. I have full faith in you that you’ll help my family in this tough time. I wish I could do more for my child,” says an exasperated father. Tejaswini’s father, Raju, is the sole earner. He works as a licensed agent. His monthly income is merely Rs 10,000. The family has been having a really tough time to collect the required amount for Tejaswini’s treatment. Even though the family has done everything to pay for Tejaswini’s previous treatments, nothing is enough. They took loans and borrowed money from friends and family. Help Tejaswini A huge sum of INR 3150000.00 is required for Tejaswini’s treatment. For a man whose salary is merely Rs 10,000, it will be impossible for him to collect such an amount. Even though this disease has made her childhood really tough. Tejaswini has been fighting bravely. She loves to dance and study English, she cannot wait to go back to school and play with her friends. She also wishes to visit places and start living her life without regular hospital visits. Tejaswini and her family are in dire need of funds for her life-saving transplant. Please donate generously and help this poor family in their dark times. Tejaswini deserves another chance at her life which can be possible only with your help. Help Tejaswini||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-426
09-01-2021||India||Delhi's minimum temperature within comfortable range||At 10.8 degrees Celsius, Delhi's minimum temperature settled four notches above normal on Saturday, the India Meteorological Department said. The minimum temperature in the city has remained above normal since January 3 as a result of cloud cover under the influence of successive western disturbances. The Safdarjung Observatory, which provides representative data for the city, had recorded a minimum temperature of 9.6 degrees Celsius on Friday and 14.4 degrees Celsius on Thursday, the highest in January in four years, according to the IMD. The cloud cover over the national capital has prevented a steep decline in the minimum temperature so far, an IMD official said. Clouds trap some of the outgoing infrared radiation and radiate it back downward, warming the ground. Delhi's minimum temperature is likely to dip by 2 to 3 degrees Celsius with the commencement of northwesterly winds from snow-capped mountains towards the plains starting Saturday, the IMD said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-426
09-01-2021||India||Ten newborns dead after fire in Maharashtra hospital||Ten newborn babies died after fire broke out in the Special Newborn Care Unit of a hospital in Maharashtra in the wee hours on Saturday, doctors said. The infants were aged between a month and three months, a doctor said. District civil surgeon Pramod Khandate said fire broke out at the Bhandara district hospital at around 1.30 am. There were 17 babies in the unit and seven were rescued, he added. A nurse first noticed smoke coming out from the neonatal section of the hospital and alerted doctors and other staff who reached there in five minutes, he said. Fire brigade personnel rescued seven babies from the 'inbound ward' of the unit but could not save the 10 other babies, he said. Khandate said the ward where newborn babies are kept requires a continuous supply of oxygen. "There were fire extinguishers and staff used them while trying to douse the fire. There was too much smoke," he added. Parents of the deceased children have been informed and the seven newborn babies rescued in the blaze have been shifted to another ward, he said. Patients from the ICU ward, dialysis wing and labour ward (a room in a hospital set aside for childbirth) were also shifted to other wards safely, he added. The cause of the fire in the four-storeyed building is yet to be ascertained but could have been the result of an electrical short circuit, he said. Hours of the incident, Maharashtra Chief Minister Uddhav Thackeray ordered a probe after speaking to state Health Minister Rajesh Tope as well as the district collector and superintendent of police of Bhandara district. Tope is en route to Bhandara. The state government announced Rs 5 lakh as compensation to the kin of the deceased. No post-mortems were conducted, and the bodies were handed over to the families.  Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Saturday expressed grief at a tragic fire incident in a Maharashtra hospital in which 10 newborn babies died. "Heart-wrenching tragedy in Bhandara, Maharashtra, where we have lost precious young lives. My thoughts are with all the bereaved families. I hope the injured recover as early as possible," Modi tweeted.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-426
09-01-2021||India||Shri Amit Shah, the saviour of Delhi when riots broke out ||The Union home ministry’s yearend review has listed Amit Shah’s intervention to contain the February riots in Delhi as one of the highlights of 2020, and suggested the violence that killed 53 people was “spontaneous”. Both evaluations contrast sharply with a report by the Delhi minority commission that accuses Shah, Uttar Pradesh chief minister Adityanath and other BJP politicians of “fanning communal sentiments” through incendiary speeches in the lead-up to the riots. The minority panel’s October report also alleges that Delhi police, who answer to Shah’s ministry, “were complicit and abetted the attacks” during the riots and tended to arrest the victims rather than the people they accused. Muslims were the worst sufferers of the violence, which began on the night of February 23 and continued till the afternoon of February 27. Under the head “Delhi Riots — Home minister steps in”, the annual ministry review refers to a meeting Shah held two days after the start of the violence, another that he conducted as the rioting abated, and comments he made in Parliament a fortnight later. “On February 25, Amit Shah chaired (a) meeting with political parties and senior officials on violence in Delhi,” it says. “Shri Amit Shah urged political parties to avoid provocative speeches and statements which could flare up the communal violence. He noted that the professional assessment is that the violence in the capital has been spontaneous. The Union minister directed deployment of additional forces in the affected areas.” By then, the inflammatory speeches had been delivered. The minority panel’s report says BJP politician Kapil Mishra, a former Delhi minister who was defeated in the February 8 Assembly polls, delivered a provocative speech in Maujpur on February 23, hours before the violence started. Shah had himself urged voters on January 27 from Baburpur, one of the sites of the subsequent riots, to press the voting button with such “anger” that the “current” was felt at Shaheen Bagh, venue of the celebrated women-led vigil against the new citizenship law. The riots were largely concentrated in constituencies the BJP had won in the Assembly elections on the back of a polarising campaign led by Shah. Five of the eight seats the BJP won in the 70-member Assembly were in northeast Delhi, where the rioting took place. The home ministry’s annual review says that on February 27, Shah “took stock of the prevailing law-and-order situation in Delhi”. On March 12, he responded to a discussion on the Delhi violence in Parliament. “Expressing grief over loss of life and property in Delhi violence in Rajya Sabha, the Union home minister reassured the nation that (the Narendra) Modi government is committed to bring the perpetrators to justice regardless of their religion, caste, creed or political affiliation,” the review says. In the minority panel report, a paragraph on “incendiary campaign speeches and the fanning of communal sentiments” flags speeches delivered by Shah, Adityanath and Mishra as well as Union ministers Giriraj Singh and Anurag Thakur, MPs Parvesh Verma and Tejasvi Surya, and some other BJP campaigners. Among the speeches cited is one by Shah on January 27, where he is quoted as saying: “Your vote to (the) BJP candidate will make Delhi and the country safe and prevent thousands of incidents like Shaheen Bagh.” The panel report says: “Violence started in different pockets almost immediately after the short speech of Shri Kapil Mishra on 23 February 2020 at Maujpur in which he openly called for forcefully removing the protesters at Jaffrabad in northeast Delhi.” On February 27, Delhi High Court had played the recorded speech in court for the benefit of the police and prodded the force to act. But the police later told the bench that “no actionable evidence has surfaced yet indicating any role being played by” any prominent political leader in “instigating and/or participating in the riots”. A former Intelligence Bureau joint director, who requested anonymity, said the home ministry’s review highlighting Shah’s role in handling the riots was just eyewash. “The role of the government and the police was dubious and partisan. It (the violence) was not spontaneous but planned.” He wondered how the violence had continued for “so many days” despite the affected zone being within 10km to 15km of the Prime Minister’s Office, the home ministry’s North Block seat, Rashtrapati Bhavan, Supreme Court and the headquarters of the army, Intelligence Bureau and the police.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-426
09-01-2021||India||Farmers more resolute after govt talks fail for eighth time||The Centre’s obduracy drove her to tears on Friday but Ravinder Kaur, office-bearer of the Jai Kisan Andolan, has emerged from it more resolute than ever. Kaur has told her family in Faridkot, Punjab, that she would now return only after the farm laws have been repealed. A niece’s birthday is coming up on Sunday and more such family occasions are on the way. But she will not be leaving her picket at Singhu anytime soon. “After today’s meeting, we are even more determined to intensify the agitation in the systematic way in which we have been scaling it up since November 26,” Kaur told The Telegraph over the phone. She said she had been driven to tears by the government’s insensitivity. The PTI news agency had earlier in the evening quoted her as saying many mothers have lost their sons and many daughters have lost their fathers. “We have lost 70 people, and this was acknowledged by the ministers themselves when they condoled with us over the deaths of the ‘martyrs’ at the last meeting,” Kaur told this newspaper. “They come to us for votes but look how they are trying to tire us down with one meeting after another, where they go on repeating the same thing.” She added: “People are sleeping in a cremation ground (in Tikri), a place where no one wants to spend a moment more than is absolutely necessary even during the day. Yet the government and its ‘Godi (lapdog) Media’ are constantly maligning us.” Kaur has been at the protest site on the Singhu border since December 5, having arrived with her 82-year-old mother, 42-year-old younger brother and 13-year-old nephew. Her mother has returned; Kaur’s children have visited her at the protest site. Asked if she was herself a farmer, Kaur sounded proud as she said: “I am, I have farming in my blood. I know what is at stake.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-426
09-01-2021||India||Farmers protest: Centre rules out repealing laws, asks protestors to go to court||The government on Friday ruled out repealing the three new farm laws and asked the farmer unions to go to court during their eighth meeting to break the deadlock, resulting in a near breakdown of the conversation. Still, the farmer unions have for now agreed to participate in the next meeting, scheduled for next Friday after a Supreme Court hearing of a batch of petitions relating to the dispute. The farmer union leaders made it clear they would not give up their fight even in the face of an adverse Supreme Court order, as none of the organisations that are part of the Sanyukta Kisan Morcha (SKM) have sought court intervention. “The unions are clearly saying that whatever the courts might order, they are not going to budge until they have secured repeal of the laws and the discussion on MSP (minimum support price) has moved further,” said Kavitha Kuruganti of the Mahila Kisan Adhikar Manch. “They have already set a deadline of January 26, after which they will start marching into Delhi.” She described it as a “sad day for democracy when an elected government in the middle of talks takes resort in the Supreme Court and says that we should fall back on the court”. Compared with the earlier meetings, Friday’s talks were wrapped up quickly. Earlier, a heated argument had broken out when the union leaders told ministers Narendra Singh Tomar and Piyush Goyal that it was clear the government was uninterested in addressing the farmers’ concerns and was deliberately stalling proceedings. Kept waiting yet again for half an hour by the ministers, who have routinely arrived 30 minutes late for these meetings, the farmer leaders refused to break for lunch or tea. They went into silent mode for a while and one of them held up a banner in Punjabi articulating their resolve to fight to the finish. “Ya marenge, ya jitenge (We shall die or win),” it said. Followers of the Bharatiya Kisan Union (Tikait) have coined the slogan: “Bill wapsi toh ghar wapsi (Repeal the laws and we return home).” Tomar said there was support for the new farm laws and the government had to keep that in mind, too, instead of going along with what one segment of farmers was saying. The union leaders challenged his assertion, arguing that most of the organisations the government was trotting out as farmer outfits had little support within the farming community. Veteran farmer leader Balbir Singh Rajewal underlined that the government had no constitutional right to legislate on agricultural marketing since it was a state subject, but added caustically that rulers can do whatever they like. “But we will continue sitting...,” he said. Punjab Kisan Union president Ruldu Singh Mansa is understood to have been drawn into a heated argument and said: “We come from the land of the Gurus with a tradition of sacrificing everything for what we believe in. Do not expect us to buckle.” BKU (Tikait) leader Rakesh Tikait told reporters after the meeting: “The farmers will not relent till the laws are repealed. We will come again on January 15. We are not going anywhere.” Asked why the farmers were not seeking court intervention, Hannan Mollah of the All India Kisan Sabha said the option had been considered and rejected seven months ago when the ordinances were promulgated. “Why should we go to court over a decision of the executive? This is a conversation that farmers — who constitute 60 per cent of the population — want to have with their elected government,” he said. “It is the government’s duty to save the farmers from what is certain death if these laws are enacted. If you will save us, we will survive; else we will die.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-427
09-01-2021||India||5 liquor deaths in UP's Bulandshahr||Five persons have died after consuming spurious country liquor in Uttar Pradesh’s Bulandshahr district on Thursday night. “A youth brings liquor on his motorcycle every evening and sells it to villagers at Rs 30 per bottle. Over 20 villagers took it between 9pm and 10pm on Thursday and went to sleep. They started vomiting and complained of nausea around 1am. Four of them died before they could be taken to hospital. One more person died on Friday,” a resident said. The victims, all Dalits, were daily wage earners. Kuldeep Singh, identified by villagers as the manufacturer of the spurious liquor, was arrested on Friday evening. Local excise officer Prabhat Barman has been suspended. Three senior officers of the department — Sanjay Tripathi, Rajesh Tripathi and Suresh Patel — have been transferred. Santosh Kumar Singh, the senior superintendent of police, said: “Local police station in-charge Dixit Kumar Tyagi and sub-inspector Anokhe Puri have been suspended for dereliction of duty as the illicit liquor was sold in their area.” “Five persons have died while a dozen are in hospital. We have taken three persons into custody and are probing the case. The accused will be booked under the National Security Act,” he added. Villagers said the area’s hooch traders sold the illicit liquor under the brand name “Prince India”. The family members of the victims have given to the police the empty plastic bottles in which the liquor had been sold.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-427
09-01-2021||India||Nitish will quit in 6 months: JDU MLA ||A Janata Dal United MLA has claimed that his leader Nitish Kumar will step down as chief minister in six months and Rashtriya Janata Dal leader Tejashwi Prasad Yadav will form the government in Bihar. Gopalpur JDU legislator Narendra Kumar Niraj alias Gopal Mandal’s comments have come at a time there is friction in the NDA, and the JDU is feeling uncomfortable with a more assertive BJP that has become the senior partner for the first time in the alliance. Mandal made the comments during a telephone conversation with Bihpur BJP legislator Kumar Shailendra, an audio clip of which has been leaked and shared widely on social media, and during a media conference later. “Chief minister Nitish Kumar will step down from his post after six months and Tejashwi will form the government,” Mandal is heard telling Shailendra in the clip. Mandal, in the telephone conversation, alleged that BJP legislators had sided with the JDU’s opponents and is heard using expletives against senior leaders of the saffron party. Shailendra confirmed that Mandal had spoken about such a possibility but denied leaking the audio. “Whatever Mandal said is in front of everybody. He is a four-term MLA and keeps speaking such things. However, I did not leak the conversation or put it up on social media,” Shailendra said. Mandal’s revelation indicates that the friction between the JDU and the BJP is simmering despite the best efforts by their top leaders to present a picture of amicability.
The JDU has strongly condemned the “poaching” of six of its seven MLAs by the BJP in Arunachal Pradesh, calling it an act of treachery. The JDU is also angry with the BJP over what the Bihar party thinks is covert patronage to the Lok Janshakti Party’s Chirag Paswan during the Assembly elections in October-November last year. Chirag had fielded candidates against the JDU, eating into its votes. There are also indications of growing closeness between the JDU and Opposition RJD, whose leaders have sent feelers to Nitish to quit the NDA and rejoin the Grand Alliance. The Opposition parties expressed glee over Mandal’s comments. Congress leader Anand Madhav said: “Mandal’s statement showcases the current relations between the JDU and the BJP. There is much stress between the two parties. Though the senior leaders of the two parties are asserting that the government will last its full term, it does not look possible.” RJD leader Shakti Yadav said the JDU legislator’s comments had “expressed the sentiments of the entire party, which is feeling afraid that the BJP would gobble it up”.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-427
09-01-2021||India||Mahant accused of rape-and-murder held in UP ||A temple mahant accused of raping and murdering a worshipper in Uttar Pradesh’s Badaun district was arrested from the victim’s village on Thursday night. Baba Satya Narayan, who had allegedly brutalised the 42-year-old anganwadi worker on Sunday evening along with his driver Jaspal Singh and disciple Ved Ram, had been hiding in the house of another disciple not far from the house of the victim. Avinash Chandra, additional director-general of police, said a case under IPC Section 166A (public servant disobeying the law) had been registered against Raghvendra Pratap Singh, the local station house officer, and Amarjit Singh, a sub-inspector of Ughaiti police station, for failure to record the crime on time. The two cops had informed senior officers 17 hours after the incident and sent the body for a post-mortem over 24 hours after the crime had been reported by the victim’s family on Sunday night. The cops have been accused of “delay in informing higher authorities, laxity in taking action, dereliction of duty and failure in taking speedy action”, said senior superintendent of police Sankalp Sharma. The delay allowed the accused trio to escape on Tuesday and also send the police on a wild goose chase. Ved Ram and Jaspal were arrested from Ughaiti on Wednesday night. The female disciple from whose house Satya Narayan was arrested on Thursday night has been detained for questioning. Satya Narayan was questioned through the night, the police said. According to the initial inquiry and the statement of the family members of the victim, the crime was committed in or around the temple sometime between 6pm and 9pm on Sunday. Apart from gang-raping her, the trio also allegedly broke her leg and inserted a hard object, possibly an iron rod, into her private parts before dumping her blood-splattered body in front of her house at 11pm and claiming before her relatives that she had fallen into a dry well. The post-mortem has confirmed gang rape and torture and mentioned the cause of death as shock and excessive bleeding. According to police sources, the trio had sent their phones through an acquaintance to Chandausi in Sambhal district two hours before dumping her body, creating the impression that they were not in Ughaiti. The police, tracking the cellphones, kept looking for Satya Narayan in Chandausi, Bareilly and Uttarakhand. A reward of Rs 50,000 was also announced for helping the police to nab him. According to the police, a villager in Ughaiti tipped them off on Thursday about Satya Narayan’s presence in the house of one of his disciples.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-427
09-01-2021||India||How Tricolour was dragged into Capitol frame  ||Software entrepreneur Vincent Xavier Palathingal, 54, says he left Kerala a quarter century ago and settled in the US to escape “large-scale Leftist violence and atrocities” at home. Now he finds himself defending his decision to join — Indian Tricolour in hand — a rally at Capitol Hill on Wednesday, soon after which large-scale Rightist violence erupted. But, roasted on social media for carrying the national flag to an American show of bigotry, the Kochi-born chairperson of the US-based Accubits Technologies, which has an office at Technopark in Thiruvananthapuram, is not too fazed if a tad defensive. He has glib answers to every difficult question, much like the man he reveres: US President Donald Trump. “I carried the Indian national flag to prove that Trump’s supporters are not rigid American nationalists with racist tendencies as projected by the media but a set of peaceful agitators with a pan-global vision and inclusiveness,” Xavier said over the phone from Fairfax county, Virginia, where he is a state committee member of the Republican Party. “Commonly, people of different nationalities take part in protests with their national flags. My only point was that Trump still enjoys enormous international backing, and he has many Indian fans.” As for the violence, he insists he had no part in it and it was all the handiwork of about 50 Leftists who had infiltrated the crowd of protesters. “I have reason to believe that the 50 men who unleashed violence belong to the Left group Antifa, which Trump had described as a set of terrorists. They might have sneaked into our peaceful democratic protest against the rigging of the election to defame our leader Trump,” he said, flogging a discredited conspiracy theory. “I’m not a rioter, and the vast majority gathered there had not rioted. The 50 men were trained in adventurous and violent activities. You may have seen the visuals in which they climbed the walls of the building. I’m a Trump fan who took part in the protest peacefully.” While Xavier’s old friends in Kerala acknowledged the extreme hatred the former Congress party activist harboured for the Left ideology, they contested his claim that he had left the state for political reasons. They said he had obtained US citizenship to try and build a transnational business. Xavier, involved in many Malayali forums in the US and vice-president of the largest of them, the Federation of Malayalee Associations of Americas, has angered community members from both Kerala and America. Shashi Tharoor, Congress MP from Thiruvananthapuram, has questioned “Indians with the same mentality as that Trumpist mob, who enjoy using the flag as a weapon rather than a badge of pride” and asserted: “That flag there is a warning to all of us.” Xavier’s Facebook page showed a glut of angry messages, with netizen Suresh Madhavan alleging he had “disgraced India for your two minutes of fame” and Philip Joseph, apparently a US-based Malayali and Republican, asking: “Who gave you the authority to carry Indian flag in a riot before capitol hill?” Sounding somewhat on the back foot, Xavier told The Telegraph there were five other Keralites in the siege but they had not attracted attention because they did not carry the Indian flag. Xavier told Manorama News that this was the first time he had carried an Indian flag to a pro-Trump rally although he had participated in three of them before. He has deleted from his Facebook page pictures he had uploaded of himself holding the Indian flag at the Capitol Hill siege. Instead, he has tweeted pictures of the pro-Trump protesters carrying the national flags of various countries, including Vietnam, Iran and South Korea. “American patriots — Vietnamese, Indian, Korean & Iranian origins & from so many other nations & races, who believe massive voter fraud has happened joined rally yesterday in solidarity with Trump,” he tweeted. Nissim Mannathukkaren, associate professor with the department of international development studies at Dalhousie University, Canada, said there was a “compact between White supremacism and Hindutva”. “There is nothing surprising about Indian and saffron flags waved at the insurrection in Capitol. Around 28 per cent of Indians in America voted for Trump. But the support for Trump’s majoritarian racist nationalism in America is even larger amongst the Indian diaspora,” he told The Telegraph in an email. “This is the compact between White supremacism and Hindutva, founded on common enemies like Islam despite the fact that Indians are themselves a racial minority in the United States.” He added: “But the largely affluent Indians are the ‘good minority’ who can participate in ‘Make America Great Again’. And this compact is what was reflected in the open endorsement of Donald Trump by Narendra Modi in his ‘Ab ki baar Trump sarkar’ call.” Washington-based software professional Sajith Nair, 44, who said he knew Xavier through a common association with US-based Malayali organisations, asserted the Accubits chairperson only recently began promoting himself as a hardcore Trump fan. Xavier was born at Champakara near Vyttila on the outskirts of Kochi city. Thrissur resident Sheeba Jayan said Xavier had been involved with the Congress-backed students’ union at the Government Engineering College in Thrissur, where both had studied. Xavier later worked as project engineer with the Kerala Industrial and Technical Consultancy Organisation in Kochi, and as site engineer with the Ali-Al Sehebani Associates at Al-Hofuf, Saudi Arabia. He moved to the US to study for a master’s in civil engineering at the University of Reno. He later he worked with the Maryland State Highway Administration, Metro Washington Council of Governments, and Fannie Mae. In 1998, he started Amaram Technology, providing IT support to businesses and government bodies. Accubits was incorporated in 2016. Xavier had unsuccessfully contested school board elections at Fairfax county. He is the founder of a political think tank, the Indo-American Centre. He told this newspaper that Trump had appointed him a member of the US Export Council. Some of his former classmates and friends said Xavier had maintained his ties with the Congress party, hosting several senior Congress leaders from Kerala during their US visits. In a Facebook post, Xavier had described Congress politician Hibi Eden’s election to the Lok Sabha from Kochi as a reflection of God’s curse on Pinarayi Vijayan’s government, which had allowed women to enter the Sabarimala temple. Additional reporting by K.M. Rakesh in Bangalore||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-427
09-01-2021||India||Army to vacate plateau at Kargil door||The army has agreed to end its half-century-old occupation of a plateau at the doorstep of Kargil town, marking a rare concession to popular and political demand in any part of the erstwhile Jammu and Kashmir state. Authorities said the army would over the next six months vacate the 1,700-kanal (85-hectare or 210-acre) Kargil Lower Plateau, also called the Khurbathang Lower Plateau. The area will be developed as a planned township, helping ease congestion in Kargil town, home to 35,000 people. The army has a firing range on the plateau, apart from operational and logistical facilities. Sources said the army occupied prime land across the erstwhile Jammu and Kashmir state, at some places without authorisation. The Kargil Lower Plateau is one of several such tracts, close to cities and towns, that have often had the civilian and defence authorities at loggerheads. Several instances of such army occupation, such as that of Srinagar’s Tattoo ground, have hit local development plans.Officials said the army had signed a memorandum of understanding on Friday with the Ladakh Autonomous Hill Development Council Kargil, under which it would vacate the plateau in lieu of alternative land. One of these alternative plots is located near the army’s Maratha Unit in Khurbathang, some 3km from the town, and another in Mulbekh, around 25km away, council chairman and chief executive councillor Feroz Ahmad Khan said. Khan told The Telegraph the local people had for five decades been demanding that the army vacate the land. “Kargil town is very congested, and there’s a dearth of suitable land for expansion. The plateau is only a kilometre from the town. This (the plateau being freed up) will go a long way in helping the town expand,” he said. “During the Kargil war, since this place was with the army, it was frequently targeted (by the Pakistanis), which endangered the town as well.” Kargil politician Sajjad Hussain described the army decision as “good news”. Many in Kargil view the decision as a gesture to placate the Muslim-majority district, which is bitterly opposed to the abrogation of Article 370 provisions in August 2019 and the division of the erstwhile state into two Union territories. All the political parties in Kargil had last year supported the Valley-based seven-party People’s Alliance for Gupkar Declaration, which is campaigning for the restoration of Article 370 and statehood. The Mufti Mohammad Sayeed government had in 2015 asked the then defence minister, Manohar Parrikar, during a visit to get the army to vacate the plateau. But there was no headway. Kargil is one of the two districts in the fledgling Union territory of Ladakh, the other being Buddhist-majority Leh.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-427
09-01-2021||India||Privacy worry on WhatsApp policy change ||“Respect for your privacy is coded into our DNA. Since we started WhatsApp, we’ve aspired to build our Services with a set of strong privacy principles in mind,” the old privacy policy of social messaging service platform WhatsApp read. The updated policy announced on January 4 does not have this introductory line, which along with a few other key policy changes have spooked people all over the world. In India the updated terms have been gradually pushed to all the users. While accepting the changes is voluntary for now, it will only be so till the policy comes into effect from February 8. Among the key changes in the new policy is the plethora of information that WhatsApp, a Facebook platform, will start to collect. This includes hardware data such as battery level, signal strength, app version, browser information, mobile network, connection information (including phone number, mobile operator or ISP), language and time zone, IP address, device operations information, and identifiers (including those unique to Facebook company products associated with the same device or account). These were not part of the previous policy. There are also changes in the policy related to location services. The social messaging platform said that even if users “do not use our location-related features, we use IP addresses and other information like phone number area codes to estimate your general location (e.g. city and country). We also use your location information for diagnostics and troubleshooting purposes.” The policy also explicitly states that WhatsApp uses Facebook’s global infrastructure and data centres, including those in the US, to store user data, something that was not there in the past policies. Another change is on how users interact with businesses on WhatsApp. “When you message with a business on WhatsApp, keep in mind that the content you share may be visible to several people in that business. In addition, some businesses might be working with third-party service providers (which may include Facebook) to help manage their communications with their customers. For example, a business may give such third-party service provider access to its communications to send, store, read, manage, or otherwise process them for the business,” the new policy states.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-427
09-01-2021||India||Security up after letter on Naveen Patnaik||Odisha police have beefed up security around Naveen Nivas, the official residence of chief minister Naveen Patnaik, after the receipt of an anonymous letter claiming a conspiracy to murder him. The chief minister’s security is being monitored round-the-clock. Sources said the letter written in English was addressed to the chief minister and spoke of a threat to his life. It said that professional criminals were keeping Naveen’s movements under watch in order to attack him at an opportune time. A copy of the letter is available with The Telegraph. “These contract killers are professional criminals, and they are equipped with the latest weapons like AK-47 and semi-automatic pistols. These criminals are constantly following you and can attack you any time,” the letter said. It said the mastermind of the plot to eliminate the popular chief minister lives in Nagpur. “The weapons which will be used to kill you have been brought to Odisha with the help of the car MH49 BK5295,” it added. The letter, which was received at Naveen Nivas on January 4, urged the five-time chief minister to be aware of the plot to assassinate him and also provided some car numbers which could be used by the criminals to execute their plan. The Odisha government has taken serious note of the matter and the home department has asked the director-general of police and director, intelligence and commissionerate police, to review the security of the chief minister. Special secretary (home), Santosh Bala, in a letter to the DGP, commissionerate police and other senior police officers, said: “The security of the Hon’ble chief minister may be assessed and tightened at his residence, secretariat as well as during journey to various places, functions if required. This may please be treated as Extremely Urgent.” Sources said the police have started an investigation to ascertain the place from where the letter was posted. Earlier in 2018, a murder convict lodged in a jail in Chhattisgarh had written a letter to Naveen demanding Rs 50 crore as extortion money. But during inquiry the person was found to be mentally deranged.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-427
09-01-2021||India||India alert on coronavirus mutant that escapes 3 antibodies||Genomic surveillance has revealed the presence in India of a coronavirus variant with a mutation designated E484 that can evade three antibodies and scientists say it should be monitored closely as the country rolls out Covid-19 vaccines. Among over 6,300 novel coronavirus genome sequences deposited so far in an Indian database, the variant with the E484 mutation also observed in several other countries has turned up in only two patients in Maharashtra — at Raigad and Thane. Scientists at the Institute of Genomics and Integrative Biology (IGIB), New Delhi, say the E484 variant looks “worrying” as studies have suggested that the mutation may allow the virus to escape three antibodies. The viruses were isolated from the patient in Raigad on September 1 and from the patient in Thane on September 8. Researchers at the Tata Memorial Centre’s Advanced Centre for Treatment Research and Education on Cancer, Navi Mumbai, deposited the genomes in the database in December. A single mutation that escapes multiple antibodies is a source of concern because vaccines are designed to generate antibodies to block viral entry into human cells and prevent the virus from making trillions of copies of itself and causing disease. “No coronavirus mutations anywhere are so far known to escape vaccine-induced immunity,” Vinod Scaria, a doctor-turned-scientist at the IGIB, told The Telegraph. “But we need to watch out for such mutations.” Emma Hodcroft, a researcher specialising in epidemiology and immunology at the University of Bern, Switzerland, has mapped the E484 variant’s emergence worldwide. “This mutation has arisen multiple times in many places,” she tweeted earlier this week. A study by microbiologist Jesse Bloom at the University of Washington, US, and his colleagues has suggested that the E484 mutation had emerged early in the pandemic — by the spring of 2020. The independent emergence of a specific mutation at multiple geographic sites, Scaria said, may imply that the virus gains some biological advantage when it acquires those mutations. The capacity to evade antibodies is a potential advantage although its implications for Covid-19 vaccines remain unknown. “Since no clusters of cases with the E484 variants have been observed so far, we still do not have insights into whether this could also make the virus more transmissible like the UK variant,” Scaria said. The fast-spreading UK variant, marked by the mutation designated N501, enhances the capacity of the coronavirus to enter human cells and thus increases transmissibility. Eighty-two people in India have been found infected with the UK variant. The emergence of the UK variant in India has amplified concerns that if containment and quarantine efforts are slack, it could trigger clusters of infections in specific locations and alter the course of India’s Covid-19 epidemic that has been steadily shrinking since mid-September. In an independent study, Scaria and his colleagues have detected 19 coronavirus variants circulating in India with escape mutations that allow them to dodge antibodies. But each mutation appears to evade only one antibody. Scientists are concerned about escape mutations because vaccines are designed to protect people by generating antibodies. If variants are able to evade antibodies, scientists speculate, they may continue to cause disease in vaccinated people.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-427
09-01-2021||India||Congress floods social media with videos of farmers across the country||The Congress on Friday flooded social media with videos of farmers from across the country passionately condemning the “death warrant” the Narendra Modi government has issued in the garb of reforms, on a day the Centre stuck to its stand that the farm laws can’t be repealed because of protests centred around Punjab and Haryana alone. Videos showing farmers from Uttar Pradesh, Maharashtra, Gujarat, Karnataka, Madhya Pradesh, Rajasthan and Uttarakhand supporting the agitation at Delhi’s borders and asserting that the three laws had nothing to protect their interests were uploaded by the Congress as part of the online “Bole Bharat” campaign. The party also threatened to join the protest if the laws were not scrapped. It is an undeniable truth that thousands of farmers from states other than Punjab and Haryana are sitting in protest — over 80 per cent of the crowds at Ghazipur on the Delhi-Uttar Pradesh border and Shahjahanpur on the Rajasthan-Delhi border are from different parts of the country. Countless videos have emerged showing how police in BJP-ruled Uttar Pradesh, Madhya Pradesh and Haryana are stopping caravans of farmers from moving towards Delhi. Among the videos posted by the Congress was one showing an angry farmer from Uttar Pradesh saying: “He (Modi) boasts of 56-inch chest. Why can’t he come and talk to us? Will you nurse your 56-inch chest by sucking our blood? It is a shame that you gave importance to fake farmers and talked to them. We know the truth of the laws, we understand how it will work on the ground. Modi is worried only about Adani-Ambani. Look at the rise in the wealth of Adani after Modi became Prime Minister.” A farmer from Gujarat, supporting the demand for repeal of the laws, declared that their land would doubtless be taken away if they opted for contract farming. An Uttarakhand farmer said: “The laws are guided 100 per cent by corporate interest. Except for some corporate houses, nobody will benefit. Not only farmers, all those who eat food will get affected. The government should not nurture false hopes that we will go back after some time. No way. We will return only after victory, no matter what we have to suffer.” Farmers from Madhya Pradesh chief minister Shivraj Singh Chouhan’s Budhni village were also shown listing the ill-effects of the new laws and demanding total repeal. Many farmers pointed to the unease among soldiers who are worried about their parents being attacked by the Modi government. They took strong objection to the attempts to malign the protesters by calling them Khalistani and Pakistani agents and lamented that the Prime Minister could not feel the pain of the deaths occurring during the movement. Participating in the online campaign, Congress leader Rahul Gandhi tweeted: “The Modi government has betrayed the food-givers for the benefit of his capitalist friends. The farmers have spoken up through their protest. It is the duty of all of us to support the farmers and give voice to their cause. Peaceful movement is an integral part of democracy. The farmers’ movement has evoked nationwide support. You too should extend support by lending your voice to ensure that the black laws are repealed.” Many other senior Congress leaders appealed to the countrymen to rise in support of the farmers. They asked the citizens to mount pressure on the government to withdraw the “black laws” and bring to an end the enormous sufferings of lakhs of farmers who are sitting at Delhi’s borders for 45 days amid biting cold and rain. Veteran leader Digvijaya Singh asked BJP leaders who feel for farmers to come out like estranged ally Akali Dal and oppose the farm laws. Digvijaya said: “The only objective of these laws is to facilitate the entry of a few corporate houses into the agriculture trade worth Rs 15 to 18 lakh crore per year. These laws will ensure the mandi system is abolished and hoarding and black-marketing become easy.” Congress spokesperson Supriya Shrinate said: “The emperor is worried about democracy in the United States but not concerned about farmers being called terrorists in his own country. Is his friendship with a few capitalists more important than the livelihood of 62 crore people?” Party communications chief Randeep Surjewala expressed disappointment at the failure to reach a breakthrough at Friday’s meeting between the farmers and the government, saying: “The Modi government has turned out to be the most inhuman, cruel and arrogant in India’s history. It can see neither the dying farmers in this cold nor the debilitating impact on the economy. It is trying to tire out the farmers by playing meeting-meeting. But the farmers will neither bow down nor get tired.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-427
