10-01-2021||India||Rajinikanth fans stage protest seeking his political entry||Scores of fans of superstar Rajinikanth staged a protest here on Sunday demanding the veteran actor to take the political plunge, days after he had ruled out joining politics. A good number of protesters converged at Valluvar Kottam here and raised slogans such as “Vaa Thalaiva Vaa” (Come leader come), urging him to embark on his political journey as assured earlier and usher in a new era in Tamil Nadu politics. The Rajini Makkal Mandram (RMM), initially seen as a precursor organisation of the veteran’s possible political party, had earlier asked its members and the actor’s fans not to join the agitation and “further hurt” him, pointing out that he had decided against joining politics citing his frail health. On Sunday, scores of fans from different parts of the state wished him good health at the agitation and also demanded that he should join politics. They were seen carrying posters of the actor, even as hit songs from some of his movies were played there. Rajinikanth had in December last year said he would float his political party in January 2021, following up on his 2017 announcement that he will take the political plunge ahead of this year’s Assembly polls. However, on December 29, making a U-turn, the superstar declared that he will not enter politics in view of his frail health, putting an end to his long-nurtured plans and describing his recent hospitalisation in Hyderabad during a shoot for a Tamil film as God’s warning. The decision had disappointed many of his fans, with some of them staging a protest outside his residence here that day itself, demanding for a re-think of his decision.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-424
10-01-2021||India||EC issues directions to ensure smooth conduct of assembly polls||The EC has reminded states where assembly polls are due in the coming months not to assign any election-related duty to officials who have been charged for any lapse in any election in the past. In an advisory to the chief secretaries of Assam, Kerala, West Bengal, Tamil Nadu and Puducherry, the Election Commission (EC) has also said that officers against whom it had recommended disciplinary action in past and which is pending or has resulted in a penalty should also not be deployed for poll-related work. The advisory, sent last month, said any officer, who is due to retire within the coming six months, should not be associated with any election-related duty. The terms of the legislative assemblies of West Bengal, Tamil Nadu, Assam, Kerala and Puducherry are coming to an end on different dates in May and June this year. Assembly elections are likely to take place sometime in April-May. The poll watchdog also asked these states to ensure that officers directly connected with the conduct of elections are not posted in their home districts and those who have spent three years in a district in the last four years. It is usual for the poll panel to issue such directions ahead of Lok Sabha or assembly polls to ensure that officials do not interfere in the election process in any way and the exercise remain free and fair. "To ensure a free and fair election, the Commission has been following a consistent policy to the effect that officers directly connected with the conduct of elections in an election going state/UT are not posted in their home districts or places where they have served for a considerably long period," the advisory said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-424
10-01-2021||India||Kanpur zoo shut after bird flu confirmed in dead fowls||The Kanpur Zoological Park has been closed for visitors till further orders after samples taken from two dead birds found there tested positive for the avian influenza virus, an official said on Sunday. The area up to one kilometre of the zoo has been declared an infected zone and the culling of birds has begun there, said Additional District Magistrate (City) Atul Kumar. "Four fowls and two parrots were found dead in the zoo in the last five days. Of these, two birds tested positive," Kumar said. According to the official, the samples of dead birds were sent to the animal disease laboratory in Bhopal which confirmed the presence of H-5 strain of bird flu in them. The zoo has been closed for visitors and morning walkers. The hospital enclosure where the infected birds had been placed has also been shut down," Kumar said. An area of 10 kilometres around the zoo has been cordoned off and declared containment zone for an indefinite period by the authorities and shops selling chicken and eggs there have been asked to down shutters for an indefinite period, an official said. "We have imposed an indefinite ban on the transportation and entry of poultry products including live birds, unprocessed poultry meat in the district as a precautionary measure," District Magistrate Alok Tiwari said. "We have taken the decisions after marathon discussion with the officials of Kanpur zoo, health department, animal husbandry and veterinary doctors," he said. Meanwhile, section 144 of CrPC has been imposed to curb the spread of bird flu in the district, Kumar said. The process of disinfecting all poultry farms in the radius of one kilometre of the zoo has started and teams have been formed to inspect shops selling raw chicken and mutton, he said. Strict instructions have also been issued to make adequate arrangements for the disposal of dead birds, he added. "We have also issued an advisory to keep a strict watch on unusual sickness or mortality in poultry birds and wild or migratory birds," ADM said. Preventive measures in place at Lucknow zoo Following the confirmation of bird flu in samples collected from the Kanpur zoo, the Nawab Wajid Ali Shah Zoological Garden in Lucknow is opting for preventive measures and keeping a close watch on the birds kept in the bird enclosure, officials said on Sunday. "No case (of bird flu) has been reported here, yet we are taking all the preventive measures. The virus spreads from the excreta of migratory birds and our effort is to ensure that it does not come here," zoo Director RK Singh said. Bottles containing a solution of potassium permanganate have been kept at the gates of the zoo so that the visitors enter the premises disinfected, he said. "We are maintaining a watch on the birds' enclosure. If any unusual behaviour is seen in any bird, it will be taken to the isolation ward," Singh added. In Bareilly, arrangements to provide drinking water to migratory birds have been shut and reflectors are being installed at the Central Avian Research Institute (CARI). "In order to ensure that migratory birds do not enter the CARI campus through the aerial route, reflectors are being installed on a war footing. The lower branches of the trees on the roadside have been cut so that the birds do not drop their excreta on the road," Acting Director of the institute Sanjeev Kumar said. The Centre on Saturday said the outbreak of bird flu or avian influenza has been reported in Uttar Pradesh, taking the number of affected states in the country to seven. Besides Uttar Pradesh, the other six states where bird flu has been confirmed are Kerala, Rajasthan, Madhya Pradesh, Himachal Pradesh, Haryana and Gujarat. Uttar Pradesh Chief Minister Yogi Adityanath directed officials on Friday to remain alert in view of the bird-flu cases reported from various parts of the country. He asked the officials to relieve the Indian Veterinary Research Institute (IVRI) in Bareilly of all responsibilities relating to Covid-19 so that it can concentrate on bird flu and its testing, an official release said. Holding a review meeting with senior officials, the chief minister pointed out that every year in winter, migratory birds arrive in large numbers in Allahabad, where the Magh Mela is also organised. Thus, there is a need to take extra precautions in view of the bird-flu scare, he said. The chief minister directed the Prayagraj Mela Pradhikaran to make people aware of the matter and also asked the mela authority to publicise that pilgrims should not feed the birds.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-424
10-01-2021||India||Co-WIN to serve as foundation for vaccination drive, says Centre||The Co-WIN software, an online platform for monitoring Covid-19 vaccine delivery, will form the foundation for the vaccination drive in India so it is available to everyone at all the times, the Centre said Sunday. India will launch its Covid-19 vaccination drive from January 16 in what Prime Minister Narendra Modi has called the world’s largest inoculation programme with priority to be given to nearly three crore healthcare and frontline workers. The Health Ministry on Sunday held a video conference with officials of all states and Union territories ahead of the nationwide Covid-19 vaccine rollout. Feedback on the Co-WIN software and its operational use gathered from the vaccination dry runs was taken in the meeting. The meeting was chaired by Ram Sewak Sharma, the chairman of Empowered Group on Technology and Data Management to combat Covid-19 and member of National Expert Group on Vaccine Administration of Covid-19. Giving an overall view of the CoWIN software and the principles that shall underpin the technology backup for the vaccination exercise, he said robust, dependable and agile technology shall form both the foundation and the back-up for the country’s Covid-19 vaccination drive. “The process should be citizen-centric and built on an approach that the vaccine shall be available anytime and anywhere,” Sharma was quoted as saying in a statement. He stressed on the need for flexibility without compromising on quality and reiterated that inclusivity, speed and scalability have been kept in mind while designing the digital platform with all its components being portable, synchronous without excessive and unnecessary dependencies. Underlining the importance of capturing the vaccination data in real time, Sharma said, “This is non-negotiable.” He also highlighted the caution one needs to exercise to ensure there was 'no proxy' at all, while reiterating that the beneficiaries of the vaccination drive need to be uniquely and undeniably identified. About the use of the Aadhaar platform, Sharma advised the states to urge the beneficiaries to seed their current mobile number with Aadhaar for registration and consequent communication through SMS. “It is extremely important to clearly identify a person who is getting vaccinated and keep a digital record on who gets vaccinated by whom, when and which one,” Sharma stressed. The meeting was attended by principal secretaries of states, National Health Mission Directors, state immunisation officers and senior officers of the Union Health Ministry. India had recently granted emergency use authorisation to two vaccines, Oxford’s Covishield being manufactured by Serum Institute in India and Bharat Biotech's Covaxin. Both vaccines, the statement from the Health Ministry said, have established safety and immunogenicity. After vaccinating healthcare and frontline workers, priority will be given to those above 50 years of age and the under-50 population groups with co-morbidities, together numbering around 27 crore, a government statement said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-424
10-01-2021||India||All-women Air India cockpit crew takes off on historic San Francisco-Bengaluru flight||An all-women cockpit crew set out on a historical journey, operating Air India's inaugural San Francisco-Bengaluru flight, going over the North Pole and taking the Atlantic route to reach the Karnataka capital at the other end of the world. The flight number AI176 left San Francisco on Saturday at 8.30 PM (local time) and would arrive here at 3.45 AM on Monday, according to Air India sources. Union Minister for Civil Aviation, Hardeep Singh Puri tweeted, "Way to go girls! Professional, qualified & confident, the all-women cockpit crew takes off from San Francisco to Bengaluru on @airindiain's flight to fly over the North Pole. Our Nari Shakti achieves a historic first." Air India has said this will be the longest commercial flight in the world to be operated by it or any other airline in India. The total flight time on this route will be more than 17 hours depending on the wind speed on that particular day, it had said in a statement on the eve of the historic flight. Members of the crew are: Captain Zoya Aggarwal, Captain Papagari Thanmai, Captain Akansha Sonaware and Captain Shivani Manhas. Air India too expressed its elation when it tweeted, "Imagine this: -All Women Cockpit Crew. -Longest flight into India. -Crossing the North Pole It's here & happening! Records broken. History in the making by AI176 from @flySFO to @BLRAirport. AI 176 is cruising at 30000 feet."||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-424
10-01-2021||India||Puri Jagannath temple no more requires Covid negative report from Jan 21||The Shree Jagannath Temple Administration (SJTA) on Sunday announced that devotees need not produce their Covid-19 negative report for getting entry into the 12th-century shrine in Puri from January 21. The decision in this regard was taken at a meeting attended by SJTA chief Krishan Kumar, Puri district magistrate-cum collector Samarth Verma and Superintendent of Police K B Singh. "The devotees can enter into the temple without having Covid-19 negative report from January 21. The decision will remain in force till February 21," the SJTA chief told reporters. Kumar said the SJTA has decided to relax the restriction which was imposed on temple entry for the general public. The temple opened for public from January 3 after remaining closed for nine months in the wake of the pandemic. The Puri Collector said that special arrangements and queue system will soon be introduced for elderly/senior citizens coming to the temple. The temple was opened in a phased manner from December 23, 2020. While the servitors and their family members were allowed to enter the temple from December 23 to December 25 evening, the local residents of Puri got the opportunity to have darshan of the deities between December 26 and 31. The temple was finally opened to the public for darshan of the sibling deities - Lord Balabhadra, Devi Subhadra and Lord Jagannath - from January 3, 2021 adhering to the Covid-19 guidelines.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-424
10-01-2021||India||Haryana farmers face police wrath, ransack venue where CM was set to speak||The Haryana Police on Sunday used water cannons and lobbed tear gas shells on farmers to prevent them from protesting and marching towards Kaimla village in Haryana’s Karnal district where Chief Minister Manohar Lal Khattar was set to address a ‘kisan mahapanchayat’. The chief minister however cancelled the meeting following the violence. Despite all the clashes, the farmers reached the venue and disrupted the event. They took control and ransacked the venue at Kaimla village in Haryana's Karnal district where Khattar was to address people to highlight the benefits of the Centre’s three agriculture laws. Police had made elaborate security arrangements for the chief minister’s visit to the village where he will speak to people to highlight the benefits of the Centre's three farm laws. They damaged the stage and broke chairs, tables and flower pots at the venue. The farmers also took control over a makeshift helipad where the chief minister’s helicopter was to land. The programme was cancelled due to an unruly act by farmers at the behest of BKU leader Gurnam Singh Charuni, BJP leader Raman Mallik said. Police had made elaborate security arrangements for the chief minister's visit to the village where he was to speak to people to highlight the benefits of the Centre's three farm laws. Police had made elaborate security arrangements for the chief minister's visit to the village where he was to speak to people to highlight the benefits of the Centre's three farm laws. Under the banner of Bharatiya Kisan Union (Charuni), farmers, who have been demanding that the laws be repealed, had earlier announced to oppose the ‘kisan mahapanchayat’. Farmers were carrying black flags and shouting slogans against the BJP-led government as they attempted to march towards Kaimla village. Police had put up barricades at the entry points of the village to prevent protesting farmers from reaching the programme venue. The situation turned tense as farmers were adamant that they would not allow the chief minister to hold the programme. Policemen were seen trying to pacify the agitating farmers but they went ahead to take control of the stage. We will not allow the government to hold this programme, a protester said. The Haryana Police had made headlines in November when it clashed with protesting farmers who were on their way to Delhi to oppose the three central farm laws. They had used tear gas, batons, barricades and water cannons to stop the farmers’ march, but had to ultimately let them go after facing huge criticism. Police put up barricades at the entry points of the village to prevent protesting farmers from reaching the supposed programme venue. Thereafter, many protests have been demonstrated at the state regarding the three new farm laws, with a huge chunk of farmers travelling to Delhi to join the campaigners there. Last month, the state police had also booked 13 farmers on various charges including attempt to murder and rioting after a group of peasants had allegedly blocked and hurled sticks at Khattar’s convoy. They had allegedly shown black flags to Khattar when his convoy was passing through Ambala City, where the CM was going to address public meetings in support of the party’s mayoral and ward candidates for the upcoming civic bodies polls.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-424
10-01-2021||India||India generated 33,000 tonnes of Covid-19 waste over seven months||Over the past seven months, India generated around 33,000 tonnes of Covid-19 waste, with Maharashtra contributing the maximum (3,587 tonnes) to it, according to a data by the Central Pollution Control Board (CPCB). October emerged as the month when most of the waste was generated -- over 5,500 tonnes. According to the data received from state pollution control boards, since June 2020, all states and union territories have generated 32,994 tonnes of Covid-19-related biomedical waste which is being collected, treated and disposed of by 198 common biomedical waste treatment facilities (CBWTFs). This biomedical waste could include PPE kits, masks, shoe covers, gloves, human tissues, items contaminated with blood, body fluids like dressings, plaster casts, cotton swabs, beddings contaminated with blood or body fluid, blood bags, needles, syringes etc. According to the data, Maharashtra generated 5,367 tonnes of Covid-19 waste in seven months since June, followed by Kerala (3,300 tonnes), Gujarat (3,086 tonnes), Tamil Nadu (2,806 tonnes), Uttar Pradesh (2,502 tonnes), Delhi (2,471 tonnes), Bengal (2,095 tonnes) and Karnataka (2,026 tonnes). Around 4,530 tonnes of such waste was generated in December, with Maharashtra contributing the maximum 629 tonnes, followed by Kerala (542 tonnes) and Gujarat (479 tonnes). Delhi generated 321 tonnes of Covid-19 bio-medical waste in December, according to the CPCB data. Around 4,864 tonnes of Covid-19 waste was generated in November, of which 609 tonnes was contributed by Maharashtra, 600 tonnes by Kerala, 423 tonnes by Gujarat and 385 tonnes by Delhi. In October, the country generated 5,597 tonnes of Covid-19 waste, the maximum in the last seven months, with Kerala (641), Gujarat (545) and Maharashtra (542) being the top three contributors. In September, 5,490 tonnes of such waste was generated. Gujarat contributed the maximum 622 tonnes, followed by Tamil Nadu (543 tonnes), Maharashtra (524 tonnes), Uttar Pradesh (507 tonnes) and Kerala (494 tonnes), as per the data. The CPCB had in March last year issued specific guidelines for handling, treatment and disposal of such waste at healthcare facilities, quarantine centres, homes, sample collection centers, laboratories, pollution control boards, urban local bodies and common biomedical waste treatment facilities (CBWTFs). The apex pollution body had in May developed the ‘COVID19BWM’ mobile application to monitor coronavirus-related biomedical waste and to compile the data through electronic manifest system. This application tracks Covid-19 waste at the time of generation, collection and disposal. In July last year, the Supreme Court made it mandatory for all urban local bodies and state pollution control boards to use the mobile application for tracking biomedical waste daily in a bid to ensure that the waste is collected, transported and sent to the registered CBWTFs.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-424
10-01-2021||India||Covid: Over 18,000 cases in India, recover rate at 96.42 per cent||India’s Covid-19 caseload rose to 1,04,50,284 with 18,645 infections being reported in a day, while the recoveries have surged to 1,00,75,950, according to the Union Health Ministry's data updated on Sunday. The death toll reached 1,50,999 with 201 more people succumbing to the disease in a span of 24 hours, the data updated at 8 am showed. The number of people who have recuperated from the infection so far surged to 1,00,75,950, pushing the national Covid-19 recovery rate to 96.42 per cent, while the case fatality rate dropped to 1.44 per cent. The Covid-19 active caseload remained below three lakh for the 20th consecutive day. There are 2,23,335 active coronavirus infections in the country which comprise 2.14 per cent of the total caseload, the data stated. India’s Covid-19 tally had crossed the 20 lakh-mark on August 7, 30 lakh on August 23, 40 lakh on September 5 and 50 lakh on September 16. It went past 60 lakh on September 28 70 lakh on October 11, crossed 80 lakh on October 29, 90 lakh on November 20 and surpassed the one crore-mark on December 19. According to the ICMR, 18,10,96,622 samples have been tested so far with 8,43,307 samples being tested on Saturday. The 201 new fatalities include 57 from Maharashtra, 22 from Kerala, 20 from Bengal, 15 from Chhattisgarh and 12 each from Delhi and Uttar Pradesh. A total of 1,50,999 deaths have been reported so far in the country, including 50,027 from Maharashtra followed by 12,215 from Tamil Nadu, 12,138 from Karnataka, 10,666 from Delhi, 9,922 from West Bengal, 8,481 from Uttar Pradesh, 7,128 from Andhra Pradesh and 5,439 from Punjab. The health ministry stressed that more than 70 per cent of the deaths occurred due to comorbidities. “Our figures are being reconciled with the Indian Council of Medical Research,” the ministry said on its website, adding that state-wise distribution of figures is subject to further verification and reconciliation.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-424
10-01-2021||India||Delhi temperatures dip to 7.8 degrees Celsius||The mercury level in Delhi dipped to 7.8 degrees Celsius on Sunday, as cold winds from snow-clad Western Himalayas swept through the plains, the India Meteorological Department (IMD) said. The temperature is likely to drop to five to six degrees Celsius by January 14, an IMD official said. The Safdarjung Observatory, which provides representative data for the city, recorded a minimum temperature of 7.8 degrees Celsius, a notch above normal. Delhi has registered above-normal minimum temperatures since January 3, as a cloud cover persisted over the city under the influence of successive Western Disturbances. The city’s minimum had settled at 10.8 degrees Celsius, four notches above normal, on Saturday, 9.6 degrees Celsius on Friday and 14.4 degrees Celsius on Thursday, the highest in January in four years, according to IMD. The cloud cover over the national capital has prevented a steep decline in the minimum temperature so far, the IMD official said. Clouds trap some of the outgoing infrared radiation and radiate it back downward, warming the ground. However, the minimum temperature has started declining with the commencement of northwesterly winds from snow-capped mountains towards the plains starting Saturday, the official said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-424
10-01-2021||India||Covid vaccine rollout from January 16||India will begin its campaign to vaccinate against Covid-19 around 30 million people from two priority groups on January 16, the Union health ministry announced on Saturday after a meeting chaired by Prime Minister Narendra Modi to review the preparedness for the rollout. The health ministry has not released a timetable for the vaccination campaign yet, but said the vaccines would first be offered to healthcare workers and frontline workers, and then to people above 50 years, followed by those below 50 but with chronic health disorders. The priority group above 50 years may be subdivided into those above 60 — to be vaccinated first — and those between 50 and 60. The health ministry said the coming weeks and months would witness the vaccination of around 10 million healthcare workers and 20 million frontline public workers. “After a detailed review, it was decided that in view of the forthcoming festivals, including Lohri, Makar Sankranti, Pongal, Magh Bighu… the Covid-19 vaccination drive will start from January 16,” the health ministry said in a statement. Medical experts say the campaign will require 60 million doses of the two-dose vaccines. A member of the vaccination task force in Bengal told The Telegraph that around 600,000 healthcare workers in the state were expected to be vaccinated. The number of frontline workers in the state is estimated to be between 1.2 million and 1.5 million. The Centre will run the campaign through a digital platform called Co-Win that will register the recipients, document the vaccine and the doses they have received, and record adverse events, if any. The government is itself registering all the healthcare workers and frontline workers on the platform. The ministry said it had already registered 7.9 million people from these two categories on Co-Win. In the coming weeks, people from the other two priority groups would need to register themselves. The Centre’s regulatory authority has approved for restricted emergency use the AstraZeneca-Oxford vaccine, manufactured in India by the Pune-based Serum Institute of India and called Covishield, and the home-grown Covaxin from Hyderbad-based Bharat Biotech. Although the government has not specified which of the two vaccines would be released and where, there is widespread expectation that Covishield will be the first to be rolled out. The Serum Institute has indicated that it has stockpiled 50 million doses and can produce around 100 million doses per month by February or March. The company, which is required to export half of what it manufactures, expects to supply the vaccine only within India in the early weeks of the campaign. “The speed of the vaccination drive will depend on both the supply of the vaccines and the number and distribution of the vaccination sites,” the member of Bengal’s vaccination task force said. One option for Bengal would be to try and complete the vaccinations for healthcare workers and frontline workers before the elections, the member said. Assuming Bengal has two million people from these two priority groups, he said, around 20,000 people would need to be vaccinated every day to cover these priority groups over the next 100 days. Bengal has so far prepared close to 80 vaccination sites. Health ministry officials have indicated that each vaccine site could immunise around 100 people a day. The vaccination process requires the vaccine recipients to remain under observation at the site for 30 minutes after receiving the shot.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-425
10-01-2021||India||Malayalam cartoon with US President at the centre of a riot storm||“Dude, what were you doing for four years? You should have amended the Constitution. You should have made black laws; should have passed them in Parliament. Should have purchased MPs. Should have got judges on your side by intimidatingó them. Should have subjugated the courts. Should have packed the police and military with party people. Should have burnt old documents and erased history. Should have constructed a new White House. Stupid phriend, what you did just now is illegal.” The blond mane and the signature hairdo, not to mention the trademark red tie and blue suit, make it clear the receiver of the telephone advice is Donald Trump. The identity of the indignant, if not exasperated, adviser at the other end of the line is not mentioned in black and white but anyone mildly conversant with contemporary events should not find it hard to crack the puzzle. Sometimes, the deadliest of cartoons reveal more by saying less — or knowing what not to say. A Malayalam cartoon (translated text in italics above) has depicted the telephone monologue as purportedly heard by the outgoing US President who is now at the centre of a riot storm. The cartoon, uploaded on Facebook, has drawn attention on a day the almost friendless Trump found a vocal friend in the BJP, some of whose leaders decried the Twitter ban on the US President. The cartoon has been created by a medical doctor, G.R. Santhosh Kumar, 57. Asked about the unseen dispenser of the sermon on the phone, Kumar chuckled and said: “Yes, it’s ….” For the sake of cartooning justice, this newspaper is leaving it to the imagination of its readers to figure out the identity of the adviser. Kumar, a Thiruvananthapuram native currently working for a tribal health project in Wayanad, said: “Of course, the trigger for Friday’s cartoon was what happened in the Capitol, which led to Trump getting cornered by most world leaders.” Kumar could not think of a better peg than the vaunted “friendship” between Trump and his unseen adviser. The text, which names neither Trump nor his friend, took “just a few minutes of jotting down from memory”. A few more minutes and the Trump likeness was done, with a speech bubble in place. Kumar said he began drawing cartoons as a student of the government medical college in Thiruvananthapuram, from where he graduated in the 1980s. “My drawings were then limited to highlighting issues relating to the campus, medical malpractices, unscientific practices and the like,” he said. After becoming a doctor, he had found himself with neither time nor inclination to continue with the hobby. However, the political developments after 2014 “inspired” him to take up the pen again. Kumar was quick to add that although he leant to the Left of the political spectrum, “I draw cartoons against Left leaders and their politics too”. Kumar has been posting his creations on Facebook and, more recently, his own blog. “These are one-off drawings that stand on their own and reflect my thinking on that given day or moment,” he said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-425
10-01-2021||India||Silence on death during Covaxin trial hurts||Sections of medical experts have decried what they say is the disturbing silence of India’s drug regulatory authority on the death of a clinical trial participant who had received the home-grown Covid-19 vaccine, Covaxin, developed by the Hyderabad-based Bharat Biotech. The Bhopal resident died on December 21, nine days after receiving the first dose of the vaccine, with the preliminary reviews indicating the death was unrelated to the trial, Bharat Biotech said on Saturday, 19 days after the death. A post-mortem report issued by the Gandhi Medical College, Bhopal, has said “The probable cause of death was due to cardio-respiratory failure as a result of suspected poisoning”, the company said. The statement was issued after NDTV India reported the death on Friday. Doctors who specialise in clinical trials and ethics have criticised the absence of any public communication on the death from the Central Drugs Standard Control Organisation (CDSCO), the country’s regulatory authority that oversees all clinical trials. “The silence from CDSCO smacks of not just callousness but a conscious decision to not let anything delay the release of the vaccine,” Amar Jesani, a senior physician in Mumbai and editor of the Indian Journal of Medical Ethics, told The Telegraph. The CDSCO had accepted the recommendations of an expert panel and last week approved the restricted emergency use of Covaxin in a clinical trial mode, relying on the vaccine’s safety and its capacity to generate an immune response. There was, however, no efficacy data on the vaccine. Several clinical researchers have questioned the grant of approval to Covaxin without efficacy data, amid speculation that the Centre was keen on releasing a home-grown vaccine alongside the AstraZeneca-Oxford vaccine, which too the CDSCO approved the same day. Bharat Biotech said the death had been “thoroughly investigated” and found unrelated to either the vaccine or the placebo — a dummy jab that half the trial participants received. But the company said it could not say whether the participant had received the vaccine or the placebo because it remained blind to the dosing. The trial is a double-blinded placebo-controlled study in which neither the participants nor the principal investigators at the trial hospital, and not even the company, know who has received the vaccine and who the placebo. The codes are un-blinded or broken after the trial to determine whether the vaccine was able to protect any participants from Covid-19. But Jesani said the participant’s death should have led to un-blinding to determine whether he had received the vaccine or the placebo. He asked: “How can they keep a participant who has died blinded and yet claim the death is not related to the trial?” Anant Bhan, an independent bioethics specialist and adjunct professor at the Yenepoya Medical College, Mangalore, contrasted the CDSCO’s silence with the way UK authorities had responded after a recipient of the AstraZeneca vaccine developed a serious adverse event. “In the UK, the trial had been halted after a serious adverse event. Here it is a death. It would have been ideal to share the information in a public domain and discuss the process they had followed and why or why not they were allowing the trial to continue,” Bhan told this newspaper. Over 24,000 people in 12 cities have already received Covaxin or the placebo as part of the efficacy trial to determine whether the vaccine can prevent Covid-19. The CDSCO allowed the efficacy trial after earlier trials showed the vaccine’s safety and capacity to generate an immune response. A Bharat Biotech spokesperson told this newspaper that the principal investigator at the Bhopal site had informed the CDSCO, the institutional ethics committee and the data safety monitoring board as required. “We are also continuing to cooperate with the investigation requirements from Bhopal police,” the company said. Jesani said the post-mortem requirements for a routine medico-legal case and an investigation into a clinical trial death needed to be substantially different. “A trial-linked investigation needs a thorough pathology analysis, not a routine post-mortem looking at the cause of death,” he said. However, some clinical trial specialists say the CDSCO is not bound by any regulatory requirement to make public the findings of a probe into a serious adverse event. “When there is an obvious cause of death such as poisoning or an accident, there is really no need to un-blind (determine whether the participant received the vaccine or placebo),” said Urmila Thatte, former head of pharmacology at the King Edward Memorial Hospital, Mumbai, who has investigated adverse events in the past.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-425
10-01-2021||India||Farmers suggest Covid vaccine drive at protest site||The Bharatiya Kisan Union (Tikait), one of the outfits taking part in the farmers’ agitation, has suggested that the government begin the vaccination campaign by inoculating those protesting at Delhi’s borders. “We have come to know that the Supreme Court is concerned about the spread of the virus among the protesters and asked the government whether we are taking care. If this is the concern, then I suggest the Centre start the vaccination drive with us so that the virus doesn’t spread,” Rakesh Tikait, national spokesperson of the BKU (Tikait), told reporters in Ghaziabad on Saturday. The Supreme Court had on Thursday asked the Centre to clarify whether adequate safeguards and Covid-19 protocols were being followed by the farmers protesting at Delhi’s borders and feared that “problems” similar to those that arose during the Tablighi Jamaat event last year could recur. “You must tell us what is happening. I don’t know if farmers are protected from Covid,” Chief Justice S.A. Bobde had told solicitor-general Tushar Mehta during the hearing into an appeal for a CBI probe into the allegedly illegal Tablighi Jamaat gathering in Delhi during the Covid-induced lockdown in April-May 2020. “Same problem may arise at the farmers’ protest too,” CJI Bobde had said. Tikait said on Saturday: “Let us make it clear that we are not going to leave the dharna sites before the government withdraws the laws. Nothing can scare us, not even the fear of the coronavirus. The government must accept that the farmers are protesting in the December-January cold because they know that their farms and their produce are not safe under the new laws. The government has failed to prove that our fears are unfounded.” “It the court thinks that there is a danger to us because of corona, then the Centre must listen to it and act swiftly. We are here with a firm commitment to make the government accept our demands. Since it is the government that is not acting on the demands of the farmers and making us continue the protest, the government would be responsible for the spread of the virus. So, the government can start by vaccinating us immediately,” Tikait added. Tractor march Farmers took out a protest march on their tractors in Ambala on Saturday, reports PTI. Bharatiya Kisan Union spokesperson Harbans Singh Manakpur dubbed the march a rehearsal for the proposed tractor parade on January 26. He said the protests would continue till the Centre repeals the three farm laws enacted in September last year.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-425
10-01-2021||India||BJP voices speak up for Donald Trump after Twitter suspends account||Some of the BJP’s shrillest voices turned champions of free speech on Saturday and warned of the threat “big-tech companies” posed to democracy after Twitter permanently suspended outgoing US President Donald Trump’s account. They, however, made no mention of Trump’s incitement of the mob that stormed the Capitol —which led to Twitter’s action — or whether it posed a threat to democracy. Bangalore South MP and BJP youth wing chief Tejasvi Surya, known for making communally provocative comments, took to Twitter to defend Trump and attack tech giants. He was joined by BJP social media head Amit Malviya, considered the brain behind the party’s vicious troll army that hounds political rivals across social media platforms. “This must be a wake-up call for all who don’t yet understand the threat to our democracies by unregulated big tech companies,” Surya tweeted. “If they (Twitter) can do this to POTUS (President of the United States), they can do this to anyone. (The) sooner India reviews intermediaries regulations, (the) better for our democracy.” Malviya’s tweet said: “Deplatforming Donald Trump, a sitting US President, sets a dangerous precedent. It has less to do with his views and more to do with intolerance for a different point (of view).” Twitter had in a statement on Friday said it had permanently suspended Trump’s account because of “the risk of further incitement of violence”. Malviya sought to portray the company’s action as an assault on free speech and the right to have an alternative view, and used it as a stick to beat the BJP’s ideological opponents with. “Ironically, those who claim to be champions of free speech are celebrating. Big tech firms are the new oligarchs,” he said. Ankit Lal, who heads the Aam Aadmi Party’s social media cell, hit back at Malviya, tweeting: “Says the one who himself uses the platform to spread misinformation and indirectly incite violence. The only reason your account hasn’t been suspended is because @Facebook and @Twitter don’t apply the same hate speech rules to US and India.” Surya and many of his peers in the BJP have used social media platforms to air provocative and divisive comments, with the same “big tech firms” so far having largely failed to muster the courage to act against them. When reports in the Wall Street Journal last year bared how Facebook had allowed hate-filled posts by some BJP politicians, the party had played victim and accused the social media platform of being dominated by “Left and Congress” sympathisers. However, BJP hawks have sometimes been forced to delete certain comments after the controversies they triggered became too hot to handle — for instance, Surya’s 2015 tweet about Arab women that he had to delete after a recent uproar. Surya recently ran a divisive campaign during the Hyderabad urban body elections, calling local MP and AIMIM chief Asaduddin Owaisi an “avatar of Mohammad Ali Jinnah”. Many people took to Twitter on Saturday demanding permanent suspension of Delhi BJP politician Kapil Mishra’s account. Mishra, accused of inciting a crowd hours before the Delhi riots broke out last February, had posted a tweet terming the Delhi Assembly polls an “India vs Pakistan” fight.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-425
10-01-2021||India||Chinese soldier held in Ladakh||India’s army “apprehended” and took into custody a Chinese soldier on Friday for transgressing the Line of Actual Control south of the Pangong Lake in eastern Ladakh amid a border standoff. It’s being investigated under what circumstances he had crossed the LAC, the army said. “During early hours of 08 January, a Chinese soldier was apprehended on the Indian side of the LAC, in Ladakh, in an area south of Pangong Tso lake. The PLA (People’s Liberation Army) soldier had transgressed across the LAC and was taken into custody by Indian troops deployed in this area,” an army statement said. “Troops from either side are deployed along the LAC since friction erupted last year due to unprecedented mobilisation and forward concentration by Chinese troops. The PLA soldier is being dealt with as per laid-down procedures, and (the) circumstances under which he had crossed the LAC are being investigated.” Indian and Chinese troops have since early May been locked in a standoff at multiple points in Ladakh, including the Pangong Lake, Hot Springs and the Depsang Plains. The Chinese soldier was caught in the Chushul sector where Indian troops are deployed at altitudes of 14,000 feet, and where the temperatures have touched minus 40 degrees Celsius.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-425
10-01-2021||India||BJP minister intervenes in IIT Jammu's convocation dress code||The pheran, Kashmir’s traditional winter wear, appears to be too hot to handle for some in the government. Hours after the fledgling IIT Jammu “proudly disclosed” on Friday that its first batch of graduating students would wear pherans and pakols (woollen caps) in a nod to Jammu and Kashmir’s art and culture during its first convocation on Saturday, Jintendra Singh, the minister in Narendra Modi’s PMO and an MP from Jammu, tweeted that “sensitivities” with regard to the proposed dress had been conveyed to the institute director and he had agreed that “only” the “conventional convocation gown” would be worn. However, videos of the convocation circulating on social media showed that the teachers and students may have chosen a middle path — opting for a dress that appeared to be a cross between the western convocation gown and the pheran. Neither IIT Jammu director Manoj Singh Gaur nor any other IIT official responded to calls from The Telegraph on the dress the institute chose for the convocation. At a media conference on Friday, the chairman of the board of governors of IIT Jammu, Prof. Sharad Kumar Saraf, had “proudly disclosed” that the dress code for the convocation “ceremony has been inspired by the art and culture of Jammu and Kashmir” due to which “traditional convocation robes have been replaced with pherans and pakols”. Saraf said the idea behind the choice was “an ode to Jammu and Kashmir” and its culture. The pheran, a long loose garment that has a cut at the top, is worn by both Muslims and Pandits in the Valley to fight the biting winter cold. Many in Jammu’s Muslim-dominated Chenab Valley and Pir Panchal regions also wear it. The pakol is a woollen cap, which some people in Jammu claim is of Afghan origin. Hours after the media conference, PMO minister Singh, who represents the Kathua-Udhampur-Doda parliamentary constituency in Hindu-majority Jammu, tweeted: “Important! Sensitivities with regard to dress proposed for IIT Jammu Convocation ceremony were conveyed to higher authorities. I have just now received a call from Director IIT Jammu, Prof Gaur, clarifying that it will only be conventional convocation Gown, no other attire and no cap.” Singh mentioned neither the “pheran” nor what he meant by “sensitivities”, but the IIT’s decision had faced criticism from a section of people in Jammu, who opposed the wearing of a Kashmiri dress in the “land of Dogras”, a reference to Jammu’s Hindus. Many pointed out that Singh may not have got the memo as his boss, Prime Minister Narendra Modi, had chosen a dress resembling a pheran during a TV address to the people of Jammu and Kashmir while launching a health insurance scheme for the residents of the Union Territory a fortnight ago. Some others also recounted that the central government itself had in 2018 asked universities across the country to replace the conventional convocation gown with “traditional Indian clothes” as a tribute to Mahatma Gandhi. Former chief minister Omar Abdullah regretted the intervention by the minister. “Can’t even tolerate a pheran and this government wants Kashmiris to believe that it’s looking out for our sentiments & feelings. PMO intervened to have the dress code changed & that too just days after the PM addressed a function in Srinagar wearing a pheran,” Omar tweeted. At Saturday’s convocation, the first batch of 79 IIT Jammu students from mechanical, electrical and computer science engineering were awarded degrees.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-425
10-01-2021||India||Congress lines up nationwide farm protest||The Congress has decided to observe January 15 as “Kisan Adhikar Diwas (Farmer Rights Day)” with protests throughout the country to express solidarity with the peasants who are fighting a “do-or-die battle” against the Narendra Modi government. A meeting of Congress office-bearers on Saturday to discuss the farmers’ movement felt the government had lost its moral right to continue in office and decided to hold demonstrations in every state capital on January 15, culminating in gheraos of Raj Bhavans across the country. Although some office-bearers are in favour of a sustained political struggle to support the farmers, the course of action will be decided later. Congress communications chief Randeep Surjewala said after the meeting: “January 15 will be observed as Kisan Adhikar Diwas. There will be protest meetings and demonstrations at every state capital, followed by a march to Raj Bhavans with two demands: Repeal of the three farm laws and rollback of excise duty imposed on petroleum products.” The Youth Congress also announced a protest as part of which soil will be brought from every state as well as the villages of farmers who have lost their lives during the movement for making a giant map of India in Delhi. A suitable venue is being identified for the purpose. In the map, the space for every state will be filled with the soil of that state. The Youth Congress also plans to take the soil from the villages of the deceased farmers to the Prime Minister’s Office to remind him that he had failed to express sorrow over their deaths. Youth Congress president B.V. Srinivas said: “The programme, called Ek Mutthi Mitti Shaheedon Ke Naam, is intended to pay homage to the farmers who died during the movement. Youth Congress workers will go to every state of the country — from Kashmir to Kanyakumari — and the villages of the martyrs to bring handfuls of soil to Delhi. Modi has time to condole the death of Nawaz Sharif’s mother and tweet on the finger injury of cricketer Shikhar Dhawan, but he hasn’t uttered a word on the death of 60 farmers. We thought we can pay tribute to them in this manner.” Iterating its resolve to stand with the farmers till the crisis is resolved, the Congress asked every citizen of the country to support the cause. It took strong objection to the interlocutor ministers telling the farmers during talks on Friday to approach the Supreme Court as the government was not ready to repeal the laws. Surjewala said: “The Supreme Court didn’t frame the laws. The Modi government imposed the laws on the farmers, violating all democratic norms and hijacking parliamentary processes.” He added: “Has any central government ever behaved in this manner, thrusting laws down the throats of citizens without any discussion and then daring them to move court? Making policies and laws is the job of the elected government, not the courts. If the Modi government cannot discharge its duties properly and take responsibility for its actions, it has no moral right to continue in office. The government should vacate office.” Accusing Modi of behaving like an emperor who is immune to democratic pressures, Surjewala said: “Farmers are fighting a do-or-die battle to get these laws repealed. This is a battle between farmers’ livelihood and the government’s opportunism. This is a battle between farmers’ self-esteem and the government’s selfishness. This is a battle between farmers’ helplessness and the government’s cruelty. This is a battle between farmers’ rights and a government that is intoxicated with power. This is a battle between a candle and a storm. The farmers have created a flicker of hope against the storm that the government, sold to corporate interest, is.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-425
