11-01-2021||India||500 farmers from Kerala leave for Delhi||A delegation of 500 farmers from Kerala left for Delhi on Monday by bus from to join their counterparts, who have been protesting against the contentious farm laws since November 26 last year. The farmers belonging to 'Kerala Karshaka Sangham' is at the forefront of the protest. AIKS vice president S Ramachandra Pillai flagged off the bus, which is expected to reach Delhi on January 14. They would participate in the protest at Shahjahanpur, one of the venues. K N Balagopal, secretary of Kerala Karshaka Sangham, told PTI that this was the first batch of farmers and the next one would soon leave for the national capital. "We are not going just for expressing solidarity alone. We are going to participate in the agitation because the farm laws affect the state in a very serious manner. It affects the food security, price of our food grains will be affected by these laws," Balagopal said. In Kerala, the farmers have been on an indefinite protest since December 12. Kerala Samyuktha Karshaka Samithi, part of the All India Kisan Sangharsh Coordination Committee, has been observing a relay protest at the Martyrs Column in Thiruvananthapuram in solidarity with farmers protest across the country. On December 23 last year, Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan launched the district-wise protest of farmers and slammed the NDA government at the Centre, alleging they were protecting the interests of corporates and not of farmers and demanded that the laws be withdrawn. Earlier,expressing solidarity with the protestors, a farmers association in Kerala had sent 16 tones of pineapples by truck to the national capital, to be distributed free of cost.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-421
11-01-2021||India||Made-in-India vaccines most cost-effective in the world, Modi tell CMs||Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Monday said the two already approved made-in-India Covid-19 vaccines are more cost-effective than any other in the world and have been developed as per the country's needs. Interacting with chief ministers of all states to discuss the Covid-19 situation and the vaccination roll-out in the country, Modi also said that apart from the two already approved vaccines, four others are in the pipeline. "Our experts have taken all precautions to provide the countrymen with effective vaccines," he said. The two approved Covid-19 vaccines in India more cost-effective than other vaccines in the world and have been developed as per our needs and situation, he said. India is entering a decisive phase of vaccination in the fight against Covid-19, he asserted, pointing that the world's largest vaccination programme will start from January 16. Public representatives are not part of the three-crore corona warriors and frontline workers to be vaccinated first, Modi said. In the first phase, the cost of vaccination for these 3 crore people would be borne by the central government, he added. India's drugs regulator has approved Oxford vaccine Covishield, being manufactured by the Serum Institute, and indigenously developed Covaxin of Bharat Biotech for restricted emergency use in the country. On Saturday last week, Modi had reviewed the status of COVID-19 and vaccine preparedness across states and union territories at a high-level meeting where.  Prime Minister Narendra Modi announced on Monday that the central government will bear the expenses of vaccinating nearly three crore healthcare and frontline workers in the first round and suggested that public representatives, a reference to politicians, should not be part of this initial exercise. Interacting with state chief ministers, Modi underscored the enormity of what he described as the world's biggest vaccination exercise, which begins from January 16, saying over 30 crore citizens will get the jabs in the next few months in India against only 2.5 crore people who have received them in over 50 countries in around a month so far. The two already approved made-in-India Covid-19 vaccines are more cost-effective than any other in the world and have been developed as per the country's needs, he said in his remarks in the meeting called to discuss the Covid-19 situation and the vaccination roll-out. Besides the two vaccines -- Covishield developed by Oxford and British-Swedish company AstraZeneca and manufactured by Serum Institute of India, and Bharat Biotech's Covaxin, four others are in the pipeline, Modi said, asserting that India's fight against the pandemic will enter a decisive stage with the vaccination roll-out. More vaccines may be available when the exercise moves into the second round, he added. The prime minister also sought to dispel concerns expressed by some opposition leaders and experts over the approval given to Covaxin without the availability of efficacy data, asserting that scientists have taken all precautions to provide citizens with effective vaccines. The prime minister said he has been maintaining from the beginning that the scientific community will have the final word on the issue. India's drug regulator has given nod to Covishield and Covaxin for the emergency use authorisation. It is a matter of pride that both the vaccines are 'made in India', he said, adding that it can be imagined how much hardship India would have faced if it had to depend on foreign vaccines. Noting that the first round of vaccination is meant for healthcare and frontline workers, he said, "This is my personal suggestion and no one should take it otherwise. We public representatives are not part of it." In some countries, including the US and Israel, leading public figures have taken the jabs while top functionaries in a few others have chosen to follow the standard protocol and wait for their turn. Talking about the Covid-19 situation in India, Modi said the country is in a much better place than many others in terms of the pandemic's spread, and added that this is a matter of happiness but should not induce carelessness. The panic visible among the people six-eight months back is no longer there, and the increasing confidence among them in the fight against the pandemic has had a positive impact on economic activities as well, the prime minister said. Modi also asked states to ensure that rumours do not get spread about the vaccination exercise and suggested involving social and religious groups in helping check any rumour-mongering. On Saturday last week, Modi had reviewed the status of COVID-19 and vaccine preparedness across states and union territories at a high-level meeting where. He said many states have given good suggestions in fighting the pandemic and the dialogue and cooperation between the Centre and states have been a "great example" of federalism. After healthcare and frontline workers totalling about three crores, priority will be given to those above 50 years of age and the under-50 population groups with co-morbidities, together numbering around 27 crore, in the next phase. According to the Health Ministry guidelines on COVID-19 vaccination, the latest electoral roll for Lok Sabha and Legislative Assembly elections will be used to identify the population aged 50 years or more. At least seven other vaccines are being developed in India, while some others can be imported from abroad, including the one developed by global pharma giant Pfizer which has already applied for import and sale in India of its vaccine for emergency use authorisation. India's total active caseload has fallen to 2.25 lakh, which accounts for just 2.13 per cent of the total number of coronavirus cases in the country at over 1.04 crore, according to the latest Health Ministry data. More than 1.5 lakh have died so far. However, the spread of the virus has lessened in a big way in the country as the daily number of new cases has dropped to about 16,000 from a peak of almost 98,000 in September last year. However, the overall caseload for India is the second-highest in the world after the US, which has reported more than 2 crore cases so far -- almost double of India's cumulative tally. In terms of deaths also, the US has recorded the most at nearly 3.7 lakh, followed by over 2 lakh in Brazil and about 1.5 lakh in India. However, India tops the global charts for recovery with more than 1 crore having recuperated after contracting the deadly virus. Many countries have launched mass vaccination programmes to protect their people from the deadly virus, which was first detected in China in December 2019 and has killed nearly 20 lakh people globally and infected more than 9 crore people since then. The vaccination drive in India is starting almost one year after the first case was reported on January 30, 2020 in Kerala, though a wider outbreak began in March after a few people in Delhi and adjoining areas were tested positive after returning from abroad. In December 2020, the UK became the first country to start vaccination, followed by several other nations, including the US, Belarus, Argentina, Belgium, Canada, Chile, Costa Rica, Croatia, Cyprus, the Czech Republic, Denmark, Finland, France, Germany, Greece, Hungary, Israel, Italy, Kuwait, Malta, Mexico, Oman, Poland, Qatar, Romania, Russia, Saudi Arabia, Serbia, Slovakia, Spain, Switzerland and the UAE. But shortly after the vaccination programme began in the UK, the country imposed strict lockdown conditions after a more contagious strain of the virus was found. This also led to British Prime Minister Boris Johnson cancelling his visit to India for being the chief guest for Republic Day parade on January 26.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-422
11-01-2021||India||Anushka Sharma, Virat Kohli blessed with a baby girl||Actor-producer Anushka Sharma and cricketer husband Virat Kohli on Monday announced the arrival of their first child, a baby girl. Kohli, who shared the news on Twitter, said both the baby and Sharma were healthy. "We are thrilled to share with you that we have been blessed with a baby girl this afternoon. We thank you all for your love, prayers and good wishes. "Anushka and the baby are both healthy and we are feeling beyond blessed to start this new chapter of our lives. We hope that you can respect our privacy at this time. Love, Virat," Kohli said in a statement. Former cricketer RP Singh, badminton ace Saina Nehwal, and actors Angad Bedi and Rakul Preet Singh were among the first to congratulate the couple on becoming parents. RP Singh welcomed Kohli to the "Father's club", adding "the greatest feeling of being a dad is even sweeter" when the first baby is a daughter. "Many congratulations to the parents @AnushkaSharma @imVkohli ghar aai lakshmi (goddess Lakshmi has arrived)" wrote Bedi. Sharma, who is also the co-founder of the banner Clean Slate Filmz, had a great 2020 work-wise as two of her productions -- Netflix film "Bulbbul" and Amazon Prime Video web series "Paatal Lok" -- garnered favourable reviews from both audiences and critics. As an actor, she last appeared in the 2018 film "Zero", alongside Shah Rukh Khan and Katrina Kaif. Regarded as one of the best contemporary batsmen in the world, India cricket captain Kohli was recently granted paternity leave by the BCCI after the first Test against Australia. "He will return after the first Test against Australia in Adelaide," Board secretary Jay Shah had said in a press release in November. Sharma and Kohli, both 32, recently celebrated their third wedding anniversary. The couple first met on the sets of a commercial and dated for four years before getting married in a private ceremony in Italy on December 11, 2017. India all-rounder Hardik Pandya retweeted Kohli's tweet and extended his best wishes to the couple. "Congratulations brother and @AnushkaSharma Welcome to parenthood. A big hug to the little one, who'll give you happiness like you've never experienced before," Pandya wrote. Former India cricketer Suresh Raina took to Twitter and wrote that daughters are the "biggest blessing to those who are the luckiest!" "Congratulations @anushkasharma @imVkohli and welcome to the wonderful world of parenting," he wrote. Actor Rahul Bose tweeted, "Many many congratulations. A happy day all around!"||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-422
11-01-2021||India||Rajinikanth asks fans not to ask him to reconsider decision against political plunge||Top star Rajinikanth on Monday urged his fans not to organise any events insisting on him to reconsider his decision against political entry and hurt him more, saying he has already made known his position. A day after his fans held an agitation here in a bid to make him reverse his recent decision, the 70-year old actor said he has explained the reasons for not taking the much-awaited political plunge. "Kindly do not organise such events to insist that I should enter politics and make me sad more and more," he said in a statement posted on his Twitter handle. He noted that the event on Sunday was held by some people in association with several expelled office-bearers and members of Rajini Makkal Mandram (RMM), once considered the precursor forum of his political party. Appreciating the organisers for maintaining discipline and decorum while conducting the event at Valluvar Kottam here, he expressed anguish that it was held violating the diktat of the high command. He conveyed his heart felt 'thanks' to the RMM members who did not take part in the event. A call was given largely in social media by 'fans' urging the actor's admirers to congregate at Valluvar Kottam, to prevail upon Rajinikanth to reconsider his decision. Organisers apparently considered the agitation as a show of strength and hoped for a change in the actor's stand. The actor had declared on December 29 last that he would not enter politics and apologised to the people and RMM members as he made a u-turn, weeks after announcing that he would launch a party and contest assembly elections in Tamil Nadu. Citing his health condition vis-a-vis the coronavirus pandemic, the actor, who underwent a renal transplant in 2016, had opted out of an innings in politics, bringing the curtain down on over two decades of expectation and speculation about his electoral plunge. Prompted by the protest seeking a reversal of decision, Rajinikanth made it clear within a fortnight that he stuck to his earlier position of 'no' to politics. The actor had last month camped in Hyderabad to shoot for his Tamil flick 'Annathe' when four of the crew members tested positive for coronavirus. He was hospitalised in the Telangana capital in view of fluctuations in his blood pressure. While announcing his decision not to venture into politics, he had pointed out the Hyderabad episode as a God sent 'caution' against foraying into politics and said only he knew the pain in going back on an earlier promise. He had then indicated he did not want to sound chivalrous by saying he will join politics despite severe health concerns and that he did not want to make his supporters "a victim". Rajinikanth's 'no politics' announcement last month came as an anti-climax to his fans, admirers and people who were confident of his political foray. There were others who did not expect him to launch a party and state Congress Committee President K S Alagiri had opined that Rajinikanth's political innings was unlikely since the actor was spiritually oriented.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-422
11-01-2021||India||Bird flu wreaks havoc, ten states hit ||The Centre on Monday said bird flu has been confirmed in 10 states so far and stressed on increased surveillance around water bodies, live bird markets, zoos and poultry farms. "Till January 11, 2021, Avian Influenza has been confirmed in 10 states of the country," the department of animal husbandry and dairying said in a statement. The outbreak was confirmed in seven states -- Kerala, Rajasthan, Madhya Pradesh, Himachal Pradesh, Haryana, Gujarat and Uttar Pradesh -- as on January 10. On Monday, bird flu has also been confirmed in Delhi, Uttarakhand and Maharashtra. States have been asked to build awareness among the public and avoid the spread of misinformation. "States/ UTs have been requested to increase surveillance around water bodies, live bird markets, zoos, poultry farms, etc. along with proper disposal of carcass, and strengthening of biosecurity in poultry farms," it said. The Centre has also directed states to maintain adequate stock of PPE kits and accessories required for culling operations. It has asked state animal husbandry departments to ensure effective communication and coordination with health authorities for close vigilance of the disease status and avoid any chances of transmission of the disease into humans. Meanwhile, the department said that ICAR- NIHSAD has confirmed the death of crows and migratory/wild birds in Tonk, Karauli, Bhilwara districts of Rajasthan as well as Valsad, Vadodara and Surat districts of Gujarat. Further, the death of crows was confirmed in Kotdwar and Dehradun districts of Uttarakhand. In Delhi, crows and ducks, respectively, were reported dead in New Delhi and Sanjay lake areas. The outbreak of Avian Influenza has been among poultry in Parbhani district, while AI is confirmed from Mumbai, Thane, Dapoli, Beed in crows in Maharashtra. In Haryana, culling of infected birds is underway to control and containment of the spread of the disease. A central team has visited Himachal Pradesh and will reach Panchkula on Monday for carrying out monitoring of the epicentre sites and conducting an epidemiological investigation, the statement said. Here's a state-wise break down of the bird flu. Over 30 birds have been found dead at different places in and around Rishikesh creating a bird flu scare in the town. Twenty-eight crows and one pigeon were found dead in AIIMS, Rishikesh premises, one death was reported from Bees Bigha locality and two from Raiwala station, government veterinary officer Rajesh Raturi said. Samples of the birds have been collected and sent to the forest department for further action, he said. Confirming the deaths, Rishikesh Municipal Commissioner Narendra Singh Quiriyal said a temporary ban on the sale of bird meat can also be imposed in the public interest if necessary.  Bird flu has been confirmed as the cause of death of around 900 hens in the last few days at a poultry farm in Maharashtra's Parbhani district, a senior official said on Monday. The district administration has now decided to cull nearly 8,000 birds in Murumba village where these hens died, Collector Deepak Muglikar said. "The cause of the death has been confirmed as bird flu. Hence, we have decided to cull all the birds in one-km radius of the place where these deaths took place," the collector said. "We have created a prohibitory zone in 10 km radius of the area where the birds died. No birds will be transported from there to any other place. Our medical team is stationed there and it is examining all people of the village," he said.  Testing of eight samples sent to a Bhopal-based laboratory has confirmed bird flu in Delhi, officials said on Monday. All eight samples -- four from a park in Mayur Vihar Phase 3, three from Sanjay Lake and one from Dwarka -- have been found positive for avian influenza, Dr Rakesh Singh from the animal husbandry unit of the Development Department said. The report of the test results arrived on Monday morning, he said. Officials earlier said that around 50 crows had died in Central Park, Mayur Vihar Phase 3 in a span of three to four days. Ten ducks were found dead in the Sanjay Lake recently. A few samples were also sent to a lab in Jalandhar and their results are awaited, Singh said. The New Delhi Municipal Council (NDMC) formed a rapid response team to conduct field inspection for examining various birds in its areas in the wake of a bird flu outbreak in the national capital.  Bird flu cases have been confirmed in Gujarat's Surat and Vadodara districts as some samples of dead crows from there have tested positive for the avian influenza, officials said on Monday. Samples of four crows collected from two places at Bardoli taluka in Surat on January 6 were sent to a Bhopal- based laboratory, Nilam Dave, deputy director of animal husbandry department, Surat, said. "They have tested positive for the bird flu," the official said. Besides, three out of five crow samples collected from Vasantpura village in Savli taluka of Vadodara, where 25 crows died on January 6, have also tested positive, Vadodara animal husbandry department's deputy director Prakash Darji said. On Sunday, 57 pigeons were found dead in Kia village of Vadodara's Karjan taluka and their samples have been sent for confirmation to the Bhopal-based lab, he added. As a precautionary measure, surveys were undertaken in these two districts, especially within a 10-km radius of the spot where the birds were found dead, officials said. Samples of the carcasses have been sent to the lab in Bhopal and results in many cases are awaited.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-422
11-01-2021||India||Rahul Gandhi lauds all-women crew for completing Air India’s longest flight||Congress leader Rahul Gandhi on Monday congratulated an all-women pilot team of Air India for completing the national carrier’s longest flight from San Francisco to Bengaluru after flying over the North Pole. Air India’s longest direct flight from San Francisco to Bengaluru with the all-women cockpit crew successfully landed in the southern city on Monday. “Congratulations to the all-women cockpit crew for completing Air India’s longest flight from San Francisco to Bengaluru over the North Pole. You have made the country proud,” Gandhi said on Twitter. The national carrier had said this flight would be the longest commercial flight in the world to be operated by any Indian airline and the total flight time on this route would be more than 17 hours depending on the wind speed on that day. The direct distance between the two cities at opposite ends of the world is 13,993 km with a time zone change of around 13.5 hours. Congress leader Rahul Gandhi on Monday congratulated an all-women pilot team of Air India for completing the national carrier’s longest flight from San Francisco to Bengaluru after flying over the North Pole. Air India’s longest direct flight from San Francisco to Bengaluru with the all-women cockpit crew successfully landed in the southern city on Monday. “Congratulations to the all-women cockpit crew for completing Air India’s longest flight from San Francisco to Bengaluru over the North Pole. You have made the country proud,” Gandhi said on Twitter. The national carrier had said this flight would be the longest commercial flight in the world to be operated by any Indian airline and the total flight time on this route would be more than 17 hours depending on the wind speed on that day. The direct distance between the two cities at opposite ends of the world is 13,993 km with a time zone change of around 13.5 hours.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-422
11-01-2021||India||SC indicates it may stay implementation of farm laws ||The Supreme Court on Monday rapped the Centre over the prolonged impasse with the protesting farmers demanding the repeal of the three new farm laws, saying it was extremely disappointed with the negotiation process, and also expressed its inclination to stay the implementation of the acts. After some tough talk that the Centre has been given a long rope and "failed" to break the deadlock and not been "effective" in handling the stir, the court said it will pronounce orders on Tuesday on various issues related to the farm laws and the farmers' ongoing stir at Delhi borders. It also proposed setting up a committee headed by a former Chief Justice of India (CJI) to find ways to resolve the impasse. At a virtual hearing, a three-judge bench headed by Chief Justice S A Bobde questioned the Centre's vehement opposition to its suggestion that the implementation of the farm laws enacted in September be kept on hold for the time being so as to help find an amicable solution. The Centre and the farmer unions have held eight rounds of talks without any breakthrough while the protests by farmers at Delhi's border points began on November 28. During the eighth round on January 7, the Centre had firmly ruled out repealing the contentious laws while the farmer leaders said they are ready to fight till death and their "ghar waapsi will happen only after law waapsi". We have given you long rope, Mr Attorney General, please don't lecture us on patience, the court told K K Venugopal. We don't know whether you are part of the solution or part of the problem. We don't think you are being effective. Solicitor General Tushar Mehta told the bench, also comprising Justices A S Bopanna and V Ramasubramanian, that the top court has made harsh observations regarding the handling of the situation by the government. That was the most innocuous factual thing for us to say, the bench responded. The court also expressed apprehensions that the protests might lead to violence and loss of lives and property if it continues for long. We don't want anybody's blood on our hands. It asked the parties to suggest two-three names of former CJIs including R M Lodha who can head the apex court-appointed panel. At the outset, the bench said, "What is going on? States are rebelling against your laws". We are extremely disappointed with the negotiation process, it said, adding, We don't want to make any stray observations on your negotiations but we are extremely disappointed with the process. The apex court, which was hearing a clutch of pleas challenging the new farm laws as well as the ones raising issues related to the ongoing agitation at Delhi borders, said it is not talking about the repeal of these farm laws at the moment. This is a very delicate situation, it said, adding, There is not a single petition before us which says that these farm laws are beneficial . We are not experts on economy; you tell us whether government is going to put on hold farm laws or we will do this. We are sorry to say that Centre has not been able to solve the problem and the farmers agitation, it said, adding, We don't see why there is an insistence on implementation of the law. Farmer leaders said they would continue their agitation even if the government or the Supreme Court stays the implementation of the new agri laws. The leaders, who said they were "sharing their personal opinion", were also of the view that a stay is "not a solution" as it is only for a fixed period of time. The farmers want the laws to be repealed completely, said Haryana Bharatiya Kisan Union President Gurnam Singh Chaduni. When Attorney General Venugopal told the court that the next meeting between the government and farmers is scheduled for January 15 and the court should not pass any order today, the bench said, We do not think the Centre is handling the issue correctly. We have to take some action today. He also contended that a law cannot be stayed unless the court finds it violates fundamental rights or constitutional schemes. A law cannot be stayed by the Supreme Court unless the Lordships find that it violates the fundamental rights or constitutional schemes. Law has to be without the power to legislate, only then it can be stayed. No petitioners have raised any such issues, Venugopal said. The court, however, observed, We are doing this because you have failed to solve the problem. We are sorry to say that you have not been able to solve this problem. The Union of India has to take the responsibility. The laws have resulted into a strike and now you have to solve the strike . It also said, Of course, usually we are against stay of any laws . The court said it may stay the implementation of the farm laws as talks between the government and farmers are breaking down because the Centre wants to discuss these legislations point by point, while the farmers want them to be repealed. The court said that till date it has not been told anything by the Centre on the proposal given by it to keep the implementation of the laws in abeyance for some time. Our intention is to see whether we can find an amicable solution to all this. That is why we had asked you (Centre) whether you are willing to keep these laws on hold for sometime. But you wanted to buy time." We are still thinking it is equally important that we stay the implementation of law without staying the laws, it observed. To this, Venugopal said, This amounts to same thing . At this stage. the court said it will constitute a committee headed by a former CJI to resolve the impasse. It suggested that a stay on implementation of these laws will help the committee in finding solution. If laws are put on hold then negotiations will have a chance to work out . After the implementation of farm laws are stayed, you can carry on with the protests and we don't want anyone to say that we stifled the protest, the court told the advocates appearing for several farmer organisations. Justice Bobde asked the protesting elderly farmers, women and children to go back home, as the court expressed serious concern over protestors sitting in severe cold and COVID-19 pandemic situation. Let me take a risk and say Chief Justice of India wants them (protesting farmers) to go back to their homes. Try to persuade them, he said. People are committing suicide. People are calling names. People are suffering in cold and pandemic situations. If not cold, farmers are in danger of COVID, the bench said, and asked lawyers appearing for the farmers unions to persuade the protestors to go home. The court reiterated the need for having a committee comprising representatives from the government and farmer organisations from all over the country and said it will stop the implementation of these laws if the panel advises to do so. "Whether you have faith or not, we are the Supreme Court of India, we will do our job, it told the farmer unions. When the issue of law and order was raised before the bench, the court said, These issues will be taken care by police. Right to protest is intact and Gandhiji exercised Satyagraha. That agitation was much bigger .||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-422
11-01-2021||India||India returns captured PLA soldier to China||The Indian Army on Monday handed back to China a soldier of the Chinese People's Liberation Army (PLA), three days after apprehending him at the southern bank of Pangong Tso in eastern Ladakh, official sources said. The soldier was returned to China at the Chushul-Moldo border point in eastern Ladakh at 10.10 am, they added. The Chinese soldier was captured at the southern bank of Pangong lake in the early hours of Friday after he transgressed across the Indian side of the Line of Actual Control (LAC). "The PLA soldier, who was apprehended on January 8, was handed back to China at Chushul-Moldo at 10.10 am on Monday," a source said. Indian and Chinese troops are locked in a tense border standoff in eastern Ladakh for over eight months. The faceoff began in May last year, following a clash between the two sides in the Pangong lake area. "The PLA soldier had transgressed across the LAC and was taken into custody by Indian troops deployed in this area. Troops from either side are deployed along the LAC since friction erupted last year due to unprecedented mobilisation and forward concentration by Chinese troops," the Army said in a statement on Saturday. Following the capture of the soldier by the Indian Army, China had sought his immediate return on Saturday. It was the second such incident of India capturing and subsequently returning a Chinese soldier in the last three months. Indian troops had captured Corporal Wang Ya Long of the PLA on October 19 last year after he "strayed" across the LAC in Ladakh's Demchok sector. The corporal was handed back to China at the Chushul-Moldo border point following the laid-down protocols. The areas around the Pangong lake along the LAC have remained tense in the last few months. Around four months ago, Indian troops occupied a number of strategic heights in the Mukhpari, Rechin La and Magar hill areas around the southern bank of the Pangong lake, after the Chinese military attempted to intimidate them in the area on the intervening night of August 29 and 30 last year. Chief of Army Staff Gen. MM Naravane visited various high-altitude forward areas in eastern Ladakh last month, including certain positions on the south bank of the Pangong lake, and reviewed India's overall military preparedness. Nearly 50,000 troops of the Indian Army are currently deployed in a high state of combat readiness at various mountainous locations in eastern Ladakh in sub-zero temperatures as multiple rounds of talks between the two sides have not yielded a concrete outcome to resolve the standoff. China has also deployed an equal number of troops, according to officials. The two countries held another round of diplomatic talks last month under the framework of the Working Mechanism for Consultation and Coordination (WMCC) on India-China border affairs. The eighth and last round of military talks between the two sides took place on November 6 last year, during which both sides had broadly discussed disengagement of troops from specific friction points. India has all along been maintaining that the onus is on China to carry forward the process of disengagement and de-escalation at the friction points in the mountainous region. Following the sixth round of military talks, the two sides had announced a slew of decisions, including not to send more troops to the frontline, refraining from unilaterally changing the situation on the ground and avoiding taking any action that may further complicate matters. This round of talks was held with a specific agenda of exploring ways to implement a five-point agreement reached between External Affairs Minister S Jaishankar and his Chinese counterpart Wang Yi at a meeting in Moscow on September 10 on the sidelines of a Shanghai Cooperation Organisation (SCO) conclave. The pact included measures like quick disengagement of troops, avoiding action that could escalate tensions, adherence to all agreements and protocols on border management and steps to restore peace along the LAC.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-422
11-01-2021||India||Couple loses 4th child to Maharashtra fire after three stillborns||The sorrow of Bhanarkar couple has been immeasurable as their baby daughter born last week, after 14 years of marriage and three stillborn children, died in the fire at a hospital in Maharashtra's Bhandara district. Besides their daughter, nine other infants were also killed in the blaze at the hospital on Saturday. After delivering three stillborn children, Hirkanya Bhanarkar (39) had finally conceived and given birth to a girl on January 6, only to lose her in the fire. "Such a thing should not happen to anyone...children should live and should be playing," Hirkanya's distraught husband Hiralal Bhanarkar told reporters on Sunday night outside Akoli Public Health Centre (PHC) in Bhandara. While speaking, Hiralal was struggling to suppress his emotions, natural for a man who eagerly waited for his bundle of joy for 14 long years, and when he was yearning to cuddle the baby girl, she is gone forever. Hirkanya, who is currently admitted in the PHC, is too dazed to speak. "She is in deep shock," a nurse told a news channel. The labourer couple hails from Usgaon village in Sakoli tehsil of Bhandara. Hirkanya gave birth to the girl on January 6 at the Sakoli sub-district hospital. "However, as the girl was born premature in the seventh month of pregnancy and was underweight, she was shifted to the Special Newborn Care Unit of Bhandara district hospital on the same day," the nurse said. According to her, the poor couple didn't have a toilet at their house, which was the cause of the premature birth of the girl. "The mother fell down while she was attending nature's call, which led to the premature delivery. Had it not been for this accident, the girl would have born healthy after two months," she said. Besides the couple's daughter, nine other babies, aged between one month and three months, were killed in the fire that broke out in the early hours of Saturday in the Special Newborn Care Unit of the four-storey hospital. Maharashtra Chief Minister Uddhav Thackeray on Sunday met the kin of the newborns who died in the blaze and said a probe will ascertain if the fire was an accident or was the fallout of ignoring an earlier safety report. "It was a very sad and heart-wrenching incident. I met the kin of some of the deceased newborn babies. I have no words to console them, as the lives which are lost cannot be brought back. I have also inspected the spot (in the Bhandara hospital where the fire occurred)," he said. Thackeray also spoke to hospital and health officials. "Truth will come out. We are not going to blame anyone purposefully, but if any negligence is found, stringent action will be taken against those responsible for any lapses," he added.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-422
11-01-2021||India||Delhi's minimum temperature dips to 7 degree Celsius||Delhi's minimum temperature was recorded at seven degrees Celsius on Monday and is likely to drop further as cold winds from the snow-clad western Himalayas continued to sweep the plains, the India Meteorological Department (IMD) said. The mercury is likely to drop to five to six degrees Celsius by January 14, an IMD official said. The Safdarjung Observatory, which provides representative data for the city, recorded a minimum temperature of seven degrees Celsius. The maximum temperature on Sunday was 16.2 degrees Celsius, four notches below normal. Delhi has registered above-normal minimum temperatures since January 3 as a cloud cover persisted over the city under the influence of successive western disturbances. Delhi's minimum temperature had settled at 7.8 degrees Celsius on Sunday, 10.8 degrees Celsius on Saturday, 9.6 degrees Celsius on Friday and 14.4 degrees Celsius on Thursday, the highest in January in four years, according to the IMD. The cloud cover over the national capital has prevented a steep decline in the minimum temperature so far, the official said. Clouds trap some of the outgoing infrared radiation and radiate it back downward, warming the ground. However, the minimum temperature has started declining with the commencement of northwesterly winds from snow-capped mountains towards the plains starting Saturday, the official said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-422
11-01-2021||India||India reports 16,311 Covid cases, 161 casualties in a day||With 16,311 new coronavirus cases being reported in a span of 24 hours, the lowest in around six-and-half months, India's COVID-19 tally rose to 1,04,66,595, while the recoveries have surged to 1,00,92,909, according to the Union Health Ministry's data updated on Monday. The death toll reached 1,51,160 with 161 more fatalities, the lowest in the last seven-and-half-months, the data updated at 8 am showed. The number of people who have recuperated from the disease surged to 1,00,92,909, pushing the national COVID-19 recovery rate to 96.43 per cent, while the case fatality rate was recorded at 1.44 per cent. The COVID-19 active caseload remained below three lakh. There are 2,22,526 active coronavirus infections in the country which comprise 2.13 per cent of the total caseload, the data stated. India's COVID-19 tally had crossed the 20 lakh-mark on August 7, 30 lakh on August 23, 40 lakh on September 5 and 50 lakh on September 16. It went past 60 lakh on September 28, 70 lakh on October 11, crossed 80 lakh on October 29, 90 lakh on November 20 and surpassed the one-crore mark on December 19. According to the ICMR, 18,17,55,831 samples have been tested so far with 6,59,209 samples being tested on Sunday. A total of 1,51,160 deaths have been reported so far in the country, including 50,061 from Maharashtra followed by 12,222 from Tamil Nadu, 12,140 from Karnataka, 10,678 from Delhi, 9,941 from West Bengal, 8,495 from Uttar Pradesh, 7,129 from Andhra Pradesh and 5,445 from Punjab. The health ministry stressed that more than 70 per cent of the deaths occurred due to comorbidities. "Our figures are being reconciled with the Indian Council of Medical Research," the ministry said on its website, adding that state-wise distribution of figures is subject to further verification and reconciliation.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-422
11-01-2021||India||Nitish hints at shift away from BJP||Bihar chief minister Nitish Kumar and other senior leaders of the Janata Dal United have signalled intent to shift away from ally BJP and return to the party’s socialist roots at the two-day state executive of the party that concluded on Sunday. The stand has yet again brought to the fore the rift within the ruling NDA in the state. With the BJP also intensifying its attacks on the JDU and other Bihar allies, speculation is rife over the longevity of the government. Stressing the need to “forget the poll results and get back to work” while addressing JDU leaders at the meeting, Nitish said: “We belong to the socialist ideology. We believe in the tenets of Mahatma Gandhi, Jayaprakash Narayan, Ram Manohar Lohia, Babasaheb Ambedkar and Karpoori Thakur. Our politics is to serve the people instead of harbouring selfish interests.” “We could not take our achievements to the grassroots. We must work for the uplift of all sections of the society and you all will see that our party emerges stronger in the coming days. The National Register of Citizens will not be implemented in Bihar,” Nitish said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-423
11-01-2021||India||Chandrashekhar Azad joins UP Opposition alliance||The non-BJP axis of smaller parties that is taking shape in Uttar Pradesh for the Assembly polls next year appeared close to enlisting an arguably impactful ally in Bhim Army president Chandrashekhar Azad on Saturday. Azad met Suheldev Bharatiya Samaj Party chief Om Prakash Rajbhar in Lucknow on Saturday. “The Dalits and most backward classes are struggling to survive in Uttar Pradesh. We discussed this...,” said Chandrashekhar. Rajbhar, who has named the new formation Bhagidari Sankalp Morcha, said Azad had agreed to join the alliance. He said the alliance would be one of the most formidable forces to take on the BJP in the 2022 elections. Earlier, Shivpal Yadav, president of the Pragatisheel Samajwadi Party (Lohia) and Mulayam Singh Yadav’s younger brother, Rajbhar and Asaduddin Owaisi, the leader of the All India Majlis-e-Ittehadul Muslimeen and Hyderabad MP, had met and agreed to join hands. The proposed front in Uttar Pradesh also includes Mohamed Ayub, the president of the Peace Party of India. “It will be a strong group and we together will be able to remove the BJP from power,” said Ayub, whose party had won three seats in 2012 but none in 2019. Rajbhar said Owaisi would visit Varanasi, Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s constituency, on Tuesday and discuss strategy. Observers, however, believe that the members of the new formation have strategically kept their ideology and leanings unclear. Most of them have either had associations with the BJP in the past or have been accused of tacitly helping the party. During the recent Bihar elections, Owaisi had faced allegations of indirectly helping the BJP by splitting the minority votes. The AIMIM won five seats in an area where Lalu Prasad’s RJD and the Congress were strong. Rajbhar was an ally of the Yogi Adityanath government and a cabinet minister before he quit in 2019. Shivpal had warmed up to the BJP after his removal from the Samajwadi Party in 2017 and still enjoys a bungalow and security provided by the ruling party and its government. Rajbhar’s party has four MLAs in Uttar Pradesh while Shivpal is the lone MLA of his outfit. Owaisi is yet to open his account in the state while the Bhim Army has not contested an election yet. Chandrashekhar emerged as a leader of the Dalits in west Uttar Pradesh in June 2017 when he was arrested on the charge of involvement in a series of Dalit-Rajput clashes in Saharanpur. The National Security Act was slapped on him. He was released in September 2018. Bahujan Sama Party president Mayawati, who claims to control the Dalit votes in the state, accuses Azad of being “an agent of the BJP”.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-423
11-01-2021||India||Increase in seats, not classrooms or teachers||When Rajesh Jha, an assistant professor at Delhi University-affiliated Rajdhani College, begins teaching his first-year political science honours class later this month, he will have 75 students to interact with. Jha says clarifying the doubts of 75 students at an online class will be challenging. Even after the college opens for in-person classes in the future, the situation will remain “extremely difficult”, he said. “Two years ago, a class of political science honours students in our college had 60 students. On any given day, 50 students came. Each classroom can accommodate 40 students. We adjusted with difficulty,” Jha, a member of DU’s executive council, said. “Now with 75 students, it will be extremely difficult to manage.” The student strength in Jha’s honours class has jumped from 60 in 2018 to 75 now to accommodate the 10 per cent quota for the Economically Weaker Sections (EWS) among the upper castes at central education institutions (CEIs) like the IITs, IIMs and central universities. The Centre had got the quota enacted through Parliament in the run-up to the 2019 general election, despite the absence of any serious political pressure for the move. The then human resource development ministry asked the CEIs to raise their student intake by 25 per cent — staggering the increase over the 2019-20 and 2020-21 academic sessions — so that the number of seats under the non-reserved category did not fall. The CEIs have complied. Yet, hardly any classrooms, laboratories or hostels have been added nor extra teaching and non-teaching posts sanctioned — all necessary steps to accommodate an increased number of students without hurting the quality of education imparted. A former education ministry official said the government estimated that about Rs 40,000 crore would be needed to support the required infrastructure expansion at the CEIs. However, the allocation towards EWS quota implementation in the 2019-20 and 2020-21 budgets stood at Rs 816 crore and Rs 1,437 crore, respectively. In September last year, T.V. Somanathan, secretary to the department of expenditure under the finance ministry, wrote to the education ministry not to create any new teaching or non-teaching posts at the CEIs. A government report said the overall teacher-student ratio at India’s higher education institutions was 1:24 in 2018, worse than the ratio of about 1:19 obtaining in Brazil and China, countries to which India is often compared in matters of economic growth and human development indices. This ratio would have worsened significantly since 2019, with the student intake increased at the CEIs without any increase in faculty strength. Yet, the government has itself set a teacher-student ratio of 1:10 as one of the benchmarks if educational institutions want the “institution of eminence” tag. “The government has forced institutions to increase their seats but is not inclined to meet their requirements. Ultimately, quality will suffer. This is not social justice,” Jha said. The overall teacher vacancy at the CEIs is now 35 per cent. Jha estimated that if one took into account the teaching posts that should have been created once the EWS quota was implemented, the vacancy should stand at nearly 50 per cent. Asked about teacher vacancies, education minister Ramesh Pokhriyal told the Lok Sabha in a written reply on September 19: “The vacancies keep arising due to retirement, resignation and additional requirements on account of enhanced students’ strength. The institutions are adopting various measures to address faculty shortages in order to ensure that studies of students are not affected which, inter alia, includes engaging research scholars, contract, re-employed, adjunct and visiting faculty.” Jha said appointing contract teachers or having adjunct or visiting faculty was not the best way of ensuring quality education. A senior IIT official who declined to be quoted said each IIT provided a hostel berth to every undergraduate student. While the institutes have collectively increased their BTech seats by nearly 4,000 since 2019, their hostel facilities remain the same, he said. Each of the older IITs needs between Rs 1,000 crore and Rs 3,000 crore for infrastructure expansion, which includes the creation of additional laboratories and classrooms, the IIT official said. “Classes are now happening online. When the IITs reopen (for physical classes), accommodation will pose a big challenge. Without expansion, quality will suffer,” he said. The vice-chancellor of a central university said the institutions were being pushed to take loans from the newly started Higher Education Funding Authority for infrastructure expansion. “Many institutions are reluctant to take loans since they have to pay back a portion. Ultimately, the burden will be passed on to the students. So, not much expansion is happening,” he said. Jha said shifting the burden to the students would be unfair, especially on the poorer students who are already struggling to pursue higher studies. In 2008, the UPA government had begun implementing a 27 per cent OBC quota in admission to higher education courses. Institutions were asked to increase their seats by 54 per cent over six years. It’s widely held that the government had at the time provided the funds necessary to expand infrastructure and faculty strength. Deepak Malghan, an IIM Bangalore teacher, criticised the EWS quota itself, saying its introduction betrayed a flawed understanding of the concept of reservation. “The EWS quota is a Trojan horse meant to kill affirmative action in India. It is based on a completely flawed understanding of reservation as a welfare programme,” he said. “Reservation is about representation. What was most interesting to me, however, was that there was no discussion at all about the EWS quota on elite public institution campuses — unlike, say, when reservations were extended to the OBCs.” An email sent to the education ministry on November 17 seeking its reaction to the concerns over poor funding and lack of expansion in teacher strength has brought no response.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-423
11-01-2021||India||GoAir allegedly sacks pilot for 'Idiot PM' tweet||The hashtag “IdiotPM” trended on Twitter on Sunday, reflecting the backlash building up after GoAir sacked a pilot — an Indian Air Force veteran — for allegedly tweeting insulting remarks against an unnamed Prime Minister. Military veterans added their voice to the social media chorus, expressing outrage at the airline’s action against Captain Miki Malik. Captain Malik, who had joined civil aviation after spending 25 years in the IAF and retiring as group captain, had tweeted on Thursday: “PM is an idiot. You can call me same in return. It’s ok. I don’t matter. Bcoz I am not PM. But PM is an idiot. Period.” Captain Malik had later tweeted an apology. “I apologise for my tweets about PM, other offensive tweets which may have hurt sentiments of anyone associated. I convey that GoAir is not associated with any of my tweets directly or indirectly as they were personal views.” The pilot, who had served during the Kargil war, deleted the tweet and also locked his account on Twitter. Several social media users have mocked the airline for failing to explain why it had chosen to sack its senior pilot. Landing the airline on tricky terrain, some wondered how GoAir had arrived at the conclusion that Captain Malik was referring to a particular “PM” although he had not named anyone. Lt Colonel (retd) Anil Duhoon tweeted: “National Secret leaked and made public via a tweet.” Veteran R. Bhaduri said in a tweet: “#Idiot is top trending on Twitter India. Well done #mickeymalik. More power to you. @goairlinesindia shame on you!” Twitter user Salman Abdi weighed in with: “This guy Miki Malik didn’t mention which PM but @goairlinesindia is smart enough to know which PM is idiot. PM is an idiot.” A Twitter handle called “just a common man” wrote: “Now the Pilot wrote PM is an Idiot, not Indian PM. How did Go Air management know which PM?? India wants to know.” The Twitter bio of Captain Malik, who had flown then Prime Minister Manmohan Singh into Great Nicobar after the 2004 tsunami to review rehabilitation efforts on the island, says: “IAF veteran, now in civil aviation. Common sense, plain speak, no overt piety or patriotism.” An IAF officer said: “He was an extremely good pilot and was judged highly by his superiors. He became a squadron leader in 1996 and a group captain in 2008.” Calls to boycott the airline have surfaced. “Hello #BoycottGoAir pilots, tighten your lips n learn bhakti lest you are next to fall. Look for better opportunities. This pathetic airline is not worth it,” Colonel (retired) Dinesh Kumar tweeted. “This #BoycottGoAir is a pathetic airline. When it cannot honour a battle-hardened pilot, it cannot provide good services to fliers. 100 per cent boycott,” he said in another tweet. Brigadier A.K. Jairath (retd) tweeted: “I hereby pledge that I will never travel by GOAIR @goairlinesindia. What about you?” Gulvinder Singh tweeted: “GoAir is coward, and next time I book a flight ticket, I will make sure to tell my agent to not book GoAir. Sacking your employee under political pressure is so shameful. @goairlinesindia now please cater services to BJP & their bhakts only.” A spokesperson for the airline had, when asked about Captain Malik’s tweet, said on Saturday: “GoAir has terminated the services of the captain with immediate effect.” The GoAir spokesperson said the airline had a zero-tolerance policy on such matters and it was mandatory for its employees to comply with the company’s employment rules, regulations and policies, including social media behaviour. “The airline does not associate itself with personal views expressed by any individual or an employee,” the spokesperson had said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-423
11-01-2021||India||Farmers Protest: political laws can’t be lobbed to SC, say protesters||The All India Kisan Sangharsh Coordination Committee on Sunday said the “Supreme Court does not and cannot have any role” in resolving the deadlock over the new farm laws, adding that their enactment reflected a political decision to place corporate interests over those of farmers. The AIKSCC, which had given the “Dilli chalo” call that brought protesting farmers to the capital’s borders in November-end, said the government was lobbing the ball to the courts because it found itself unable to stand up to the corporate houses and repeal the laws. The AIKSCC position is: “The Modi government is shirking the political responsibility of solving the crisis of its own making.... It is misusing the Supreme Court as a political shield.” The farmers suspect that some of the petitions on the crisis that the apex court is to hear on Monday were filed at the prodding of a government that had found the protesting unions steadfast in their resolve not to seek judicial intervention. At the farmer leaders’ last meeting with central government interlocutors on Friday, ministers had suggested the unions go to court to resolve the issue as there was no question of the Centre repealing the three laws. The farmers had rejected the court route early on during the agitation, and have made it clear they would continue with their movement till the laws are repealed, whatever the court verdict. The protesting farmers have repeatedly refused to implead themselves in the case despite the apex court offering them the option. Only the eight farmer unions that have been sent notices will respond but no one will voluntarily implead themselves, Hannan Mollah of the All India Kisan Sabha said. The Sanyukta Kisan Morcha (SKM), the larger banner under which the protests are being held, has decided to continue intensifying the movement and create pressure points in other states similar to those around Delhi. It has also decided to get farmers from all the states to join the protests at Delhi’s borders to “bust the propaganda” that the movement is Punjab-and-Haryana-centric. The SKM has also issued an appeal to the protesting farmers not to take their own lives. Suicides have become a daily occurrence at the protest sites, and the union leaders are trying to keep the protesters’ hopes high so that they do not act in desperation amid the government’s stalling tactics. The focus will shift to the courts this week, with Monday’s hearing preceding the next farmer-government meeting by four days. The SKM, however, has given a call to celebrate Lohri on Wednesday by burning copies of the three farm laws.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-423
11-01-2021||India||Rs 1,364cr of PM Kisan dole in wrong hands||The Centre has paid Rs 1,364 crore to 20.48 lakh undeserving beneficiaries under its income support scheme for small and marginal farmers, the Union agriculture ministry has revealed in answer to a Right to Information query. Under the Pradhan Mantri Kisan Samman Nidhi scheme, launched in 2019, a sum of Rs 2,000 is paid every four months to farmers whose families have a combined landholding or ownership of up to 2 hectares. The scheme has a few exclusion criteria, based mainly on socio-economic status. In response to the RTI application, the agriculture ministry identified two categories of undeserving beneficiaries: “ineligible farmers” and “income-tax-payee farmers”. “More than half (55.58 per cent) of these undeserving persons belong to the ‘income-tax-payee’ category,” said Venkatesh Nayak of the Commonwealth Human Rights Initiative, the RTI applicant who has obtained the data from the ministry. “The remaining 44.41 per cent belong to the ‘ineligible farmers’ category.” Nayak said that according to media reports, proceedings had been started to recover the money transferred to undeserving people. He said the data indicated that Rs 1,364.13 crore had been paid to undeserving people from the beginning of the scheme till July 31, 2020. “The government’s own data indicates the money went into the wrong hands,” he said. A sizeable proportion of the ineligible beneficiaries belong to five states — Punjab, Assam, Maharashtra, Gujarat and Uttar Pradesh — according to the data, Nayak said. “Punjab tops the list, accounting for 23.16 per cent (4.74 lakh) of the undeserving persons who received payouts, followed by Assam with 16.87 per cent (3.45 lakh beneficiaries) and Maharashtra with 13.99 per cent (2.87 lakh),” he said. Gujarat is fourth with 8.05 per cent (1.65 lakh) of the beneficiaries, followed by Uttar Pradesh with 8.01 per cent (1.64 lakh), he said. Among the categories of farmers excluded from the scheme are institutional landholders, former and present holders of constitutional posts, former and present ministers, MPs, MLAs, MLCs, mayors and district panchayat chairmen, serving and retired government employees, those receiving monthly pensions above Rs 10,000, income-tax payees and professionals such as doctors, engineers and chartered accountants.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-423
11-01-2021||India||Maharashtra govt reduces security of Fadnavis, Raj Thackeray||The Maharashtra government has reduced the security cover of former chief minister Devendra Fadnavis and his family, ex-Uttar Pradesh governor Ram Naik and MNS chief Raj Thackeray, and withdrawn the protection of state BJP chief Chandrakant Patil. State BJP spokesman Keshav Upadhye termed the action unfortunate and “vendetta” by the ruling Shiv Sena-NCP-Congress coalition against his party’s leaders. The BJP’s Fadnavis, who is the leader of the Opposition in the Assembly, alleged that the government was providing security “on the basis of politics”, and that this would not impact his plans to travel and meet people. Home minister Anil Deshmukh rejected the allegations and said the security of political leaders had been reviewed as per the prevailing threat perception. According to a government notification issued on January 8, Fadnavis will now get “Y-plus security with escort”, instead of “Z-plus” cover. The security of his wife Amruta and daughter Divija has been downgraded from “Y-plus with escort” to “X” category.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-423
11-01-2021||India||Centre urged to stop Covaxin trial in Bhopal hospital||Four non-government health groups on Sunday urged the Centre to stop the clinical trial of the homegrown Covid-19 vaccine at a hospital in Bhopal, alleging irregularities and violations of ethics by investigators at that site. The groups have claimed that the trial investigators and staff at People’s Hospital, Bhopal, had violated ethical guidelines by luring poor and educationally vulnerable people into the trial by telling them they would receive a vaccine and a compensation of Rs 750. People’s Hospital is among trial sites nationwide that have enrolled participants for the efficacy trial of Covaxin, developed by the Hyderabad-based Bharat Biotech to determine whether it is able to protect people from the infection. The principal investigator of the trial at People’s Hospital did not respond to phone calls from this newspaper. The hospital’s dean, Anil Dixit, however, told The Telegraph that all the due clinical trial protocols had been “followed adequately”. One of the trial participants at People’s Hospital died on December 21, nine days after receiving the first dose. Bharat Biotech on Saturday said a post-mortem analysis had revealed that the death was not related to the vaccine. Medical experts have questioned the silence of the drug regulatory agency on the death. Now, the Bhopal Group for Information and Action and three other groups representing survivors of the world’s largest industrial disaster in December 1984 have alleged that the participant who died was one of dozens recruited from poor and vulnerable communities. The groups, in a letter to Narendra Modi, health minister Harsh Vardhan and India’s drug regulatory authority, have urged a stop to the trial at People’s Hospital and sought an independent and transparent investigation into the trial process at the site. They have underlined that People’s Hospital had recruited over 1,700 participants while a government medical college in Bhopal, another trial site, had enrolled only 100 participants. “Such targeted enrolment of poorly educated, economically deprived and vulnerable communities is exploitation,” said Rachna Dhingra, an activist with the Bhopal Group for Information and Action. Clinical trial guidelines set by the Indian Council of Medical Research specify that trial participants should not be offered incentives or rewards and should be adequately informed about the purpose of the trial and that participants may receive either vaccine or placebo. But seven people who claimed they had received the vaccine at People’s Hospital told a news conference organised by the health groups that they were not told that they may receive either vaccine or placebo. “They came in vans and said we would receive vaccines against corona and we would get Rs 750 — otherwise, why would I go?” asked a 70-year old man who claimed he had been enrolled. “I can’t read or write, but I can sign,” he added when asked about the informed consent form. Bharat Biotech, which had outsourced the trial in India to a US-based multinational organisation, said the company believes the trial followed all protocols. It said the Rs 750 offered to the participants was reimbursement for the cost of travel or daily wages lost in visiting the site to receive the vaccine. This is not unique to Bhopal but offered to participants across the country. But independent experts in ethics believe there was clear evidence of allurement. Anant Bhan, a bioethicist based in Bhopal and an adjunct professor at the Yenepoya Medical College, Mangalore, for instance, said he was troubled by advertisements he had seen posted by People’s Hospital. “What we’re hearing from these participants and the ads I’ve seen are worrying,” Bhan said. “One ad focused on the possibility that there could be a potential benefit of joining the trial, without balancing that with the risk,” he said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-423
11-01-2021||India||No longer just a protest, it’s a revolution in progress||I wrote this late last night
Maybe I’m getting too emotional but I can say that everyone we meet here is feeling this way. I’ve never met so many beautiful souls together at one place. Sometimes, it seems like I’m in a dream. I had planned to come for a week but it’s my 14th day here, 21 days of shooting and I’m finding it difficult to tear myself away. There’s always a surprise waiting at the next trolley. Day 43 Farmers Protests If you are depressed, dismayed and have lost all hope then join the farmers’ protests. At this point, it’s not about whether or when the farm laws will be repealed, it’s about how they will be repealed. It’s about what we’ll tell our children when they ask where were you when farmers were protesting. Sprawling for more than 50 kilometres outside 3 Delhi borders, the farmers’ trolleyhomes are now home to approx 300,000 people from Punjab Haryana, UP and Rajasthan. Not everyone is a farmer here. There are people from all walks of life including students, doctors, filmmakers, photographers and influencers. There’s no shortage of food or items of daily necessities. They appear as soon as the need arises. The protest camps are slowly becoming a home for all those who are against the government’s anti-people policies. It’s not about farm laws alone and the decision of the government on this issue is a matter of formality. The moral battle was won long ago. It’s no longer just a protest, it’s a revolution in progress. It’s peaceful, inspirational and transformative. There’s a poet or a budding poet in every other trolley. Nearly everyone is a sardar (leader) or becoming one. This is a free workshop in leadership, organisation and management. There’s no dearth of what you can do, how you can volunteer. It’s really up to you and your imagination. This is a miracle created and managed by people and it embraces human precariousness. Every home offers you graciousness which comes in the form of food, stories, songs, poetry and hope. Paash and Bhagat Singh are thriving here. Everyone is welcome here except politicians, paid media and profiteers. Your intentions will be sussed out and why not? So, if you are not too deadened by your comfortable lives, have not lost your capability to dream, and if you can withstand the elements — dust, dirt, germs, cold, sludge, smoke, traffic, noise, and can ignore your bourgeois concerns of appearances and packaging, then do make your way to this Mecca of protests and take along with you the spirit of this place and plant it elsewhere. Nishtha Jain is a documentary filmmaker. She posted the above piece on Facebook on Saturday. It has been reproduced here with her permission||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-423
11-01-2021||India||Tear gas, water cannons can’t get Haryana CM on dais||Haryana chief minister Manohar Lal Khattar had to cancel a rally in his home constituency of Karnal on Sunday after police lathis, water cannons and tear gas shells failed to keep protesting farmers away from his “Kisan Mahapanchayat”. The BJP chief minister was to address the “Kisan Mahapanchayat” or meeting of farmers in Kaimla village to muster support for the new farm laws. A heavy police contingent was deployed to keep farmers who are opposing the three laws from reaching the venue. The police put up a large number of barricades and fired water cannons and tear gas shells at the protesting farmers, but a large number managed to reach the village and ransacked the dais. Khattar’s helicopter returned without landing at Kaimla, where the protesters outnumbered the audience and the police. Unfavourable weather was cited as the reason. Later, at a news conference, the chief minister blamed Gurnam Singh Chaduni who heads the Haryana unit of the Bharatiya Kisan Union (BKU) and is part of the Sanyukta Kisan Morcha, the banner under which the farmers are agitating, for the incident. “Today’s incident gave a message to people bigger than the one I’d intended to send out. These people have defamed the farmers because a farmer doesn’t have such a nature. A farmer can be less educated or simple, but he’s sensible,” Khattar said. The All India Kisan Sangharsh Coordination Committee, however, said the police had started it all, using water cannons and tear gas to disperse “farmers who had assembled to peacefully register their opposition” to the event. It called the meeting a “bogus panchayat” convened “in support of anti-farmer laws being imposed in dictatorial way by the Modi regime”. Protesting farmers asked why they were barred from the event if it was a Kisan Mahapanchayat. A panchayat is a meeting in a village where all sides are heard. According to the AIKSCC, the incident resulted from a ploy devised by the administration to create a law-and-order situation and defame “the unprecedented and most peaceful movement of farmers”. “The farmers are agitated, particularly after the last meeting with the government shut all doors for them. So organising a meeting like this to talk about the so-called benefits of the three laws, when the farmers are agitated, was rubbing salt into our wounds,” a union leader told The Telegraph, while accepting that the farmers should not have damaged the venue. This is the second time protesting farmers have forced Khattar to cancel a rally, after digging up his helipad in village Padha about two weeks ago. Farmers in and around Kaimla are said to have been divided over Khattar’s programme, with many demonstrating against it for the past few days with black flags and protest headbands while others opposed them. The police had blocked the roads leading to Kaimla by putting up barricades and parking trucks. But farmer leaders, including some from the BKU, held a meeting on National Highway 44 at a spot about 10km from the village on Sunday morning and decided to go ahead with the protest. The agitating farmers first held a tractor march in areas around Kaimla. There was considerable local support for the protesters. The police had to call in reinforcements after the farmers breached the first cordon. As the crowd of protesters grew bigger, tear gas and water cannons were used. But the farmers took control of the helipad and squatted on it, some of them uprooting the tiles of the helipad, a PTI report said. State BJP president O.P. Dhankar and a few others, however, did address a group who attended the rally in support of the farm laws. PTI added that the farmers damaged the dais, tent and speakers and broke chairs, tables and flower pots at the venue. They tore off BJP hoardings and uprooted banners. Some local villagers and BJP workers had a face-off with the protesters. A few stones were thrown at the police, who ran for cover, the news agency reported. Last week, the Haryana police had used tear gas to stop an attempt by protesting farmers from Rewari district to leave for Delhi to join the siege of the capital’s borders. Earlier, protesting farmers had dug up a helipad prepared for deputy chief minister Dushyant Chautala, leader of the BJP’s coalition partner Jannayak Janta Party. Leaders of both parties have faced farmer demonstrations for over a month. In Congress-ruled Punjab, too, a face-off was reported between the local police and farmers who were demonstrating against BJP leaders in Jalandhar city. Haryana leader of the Opposition and former chief minister Bhupinder Singh Hooda reiterated his demand for an emergent session of the Assembly. PTI quoted him as saying: “The Congress wants to bring in a no-confidence motion.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-423
