12-01-2021||India|| Inherent safeguards in farm laws, farmers misled that their land will be taken away: Centre to SC||The Centre, on Tuesday told the Apex Court that there are inherent safeguards in the new agri laws for protection of land of farmers, who have been misled that their lands will be taken away. The government told a bench headed by Chief Justice S A Bobde, which stayed the implementation of the contentious three new farm laws till further orders that it will be ensured that no farmer will lose his land. Misapprehensions have been made that your (farmers) land will go and it will be taken away. That is how the farmers have been misled, Solicitor General Tushar Mehta told the bench, also comprising Justices A S Bopanna and V Ramasubramanian. Insofar as the apprehension regarding MSP (Minimum Support Price) being done away with, it is submitted across the Bar that the same may not be dismantled. The Solicitor General also confirmed that there are inherent safeguards, in-built in the farm laws, for the protection of the land of the farmers and that it will be ensured that no farmer will lose his land, the bench noted in its 11-page interim order. The top court, which constituted a four-member committee to address the grievances of the farmers as well as consider the views of government and make recommendations, passed the order on a batch of pleas including those challenging the validity of these farm laws, those supporting these legislations and those raising the issue of farmers protesting at Delhi borders. During the hearing conducted through video-conferencing, the bench mentioned that it is concerned about protecting the lives and property of citizens and it is trying to solve the problem. When one of the lawyers alleged that Prime Minister Narendra Modi has not said anything on the issue, the bench said, “We are not going to ask the Prime Minister to do something. The Prime Minister is not a party before us.” When another lawyer pointed out that no effort should be made by the authorities to dismantle the protest and though the agitating farmers’ do not want to prevent movement of citizens, they should be given a visible place like Ramleela Maidan or Boat Club to continue with the protest. “Has any farmer organisation applied to the Commissioner of Delhi Police for permission to hold protest at Ramleela Maidan or Boat Club?” the bench asked. When the lawyer said that farmers are not allowed entry in Delhi, the bench said, “Don't say all this. You don’t need to come to Delhi for this. You can send it also.” The top court observed that the issue of law and order will be taken care of by the police as the court do not have the wherewithal to deal with it. The apex court stayed the implementation of the three laws ‑ the Farmers’ (Empowerment and Protection) Agreement on Price Assurance and Farm Services Act, the Farmers' Produce Trade and Commerce (Promotion and Facilitation) Act, and the Essential Commodities (Amendment) Act until further orders and posted the matter for further hearing after eight weeks.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-419
12-01-2021||India||Farmers’ unions disapprove of Supreme Court panel, says it is pro-govt||Farmers’ unions on Tuesday rejected the panel appointed by the Supreme Court to solve the impasse over the three agri laws, which they are protesting against, and said they will not appear before the panel and continue their agitation. Addressing a press conference at Singhu Border in New Delhi, Union leaders claimed the members of the committee formed by the top court are “pro-government”. Earlier in the day, the Supreme Court suspended the implementation of the controversial farm laws till further orders and set up a four-member committee to resolve the impasse between the Centre and the farmer unions protesting at Delhi's borders over the legislations. “The members of the SC-appointed committee are not dependable as they have been writing on how agri laws are pro-farmer. We will continue our agitation,” farmer leader Balbeer Singh Rajewal said at the press conference. The farmer leader said that unions never demanded the apex court form a committee to resolve the impasse over the laws, alleging the Central government is behind these developments. “We are against the committee on principle. It is the government's way to distract attention from the protest,” he added. The framer leaders said the Supreme Court can repeal the farm laws suo motu. Another farmer leader Darshan Singh said they will not appear before any committee, adding Parliament should discuss and resolve this issue. “We don't want any external committee,” he said. However, the farmer leaders said they would attend the January 15 meeting with the government. The four members of the committee are BKU president Bhupinder Singh Mann, Shetkeri Sangathana (Maharashtra) president Anil Ghanwat, South Asia Director for International Food Policy Research Institute Pramod Kumar Joshi, and agriculture economist Ashok Gulati. The unions have said they want a complete repeal of the laws and they do not want to appear before any committee. “It is clear that the court is being misguided by various forces even in its constitution of a committee. These are people who are known for their support to the three Acts and have actively advocated for the same,” a statement issued by All India Kisan Sangharsh Coordination Committee (AIKSCC) said. Addressing a press conference, Congress' chief spokesperson Randeep Surjewala said the party welcomes the Supreme Court's concern over the farm laws, but the party has issues with the composition of the committee formed by it. He said the members of the committee have already expressed their views in the past favouring the new laws “so the question arises in our minds that how justice will be done to farmers by their hands”. “All the members of the committee constituted by the Supreme Court have already supported the agricultural bill,” Congress party’s Madhya Pradesh unit tweeted while tagging newspaper articles written by Gulati and Joshi and also news reports quoting Ghanwat and Mann speaking against the repeal of the laws. Ghanwat said on Tuesday the new farm laws partially implement what his outfit has been demanding for decades. His attempt will be to improve them, he said, while coming out in support of reforms including permission for contract farming. “We are not lauding the Centre's three acts that are described as giving freedom to farmers. It was the Shetkari Sanghatana headed by late Sharad Joshi which had pressed for these changes first,” Ghanwat, whose organization has been accused of backing the Centre on the issue despite representing farmers, said. “Now the current government has tried to implement them to some extent. My role in the committee will be to protect the interest of farmers and improve these laws,” he said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-419
12-01-2021||India||More than 54 lakh units of Covid vaccine in place, says Centre||The Centre said 54.72 lakh Covid-19 vaccine doses have been received at designated national and state-level stores till Tuesday afternoon, and all the shots -- 1.1 crore from the Serum Institute of India and 55 lakh from Bharat Biotech -- will be received by January 14. A massive pan-India inoculation drive against Covid-19 was set in process with Covishield vaccine leaving Pune for 13 cities across India early in the morning, four days before vaccination is scheduled to begin on January 16. Apart form the 1.1 crore doses of Covishield being procured from the Serum Institute of India, 55 lakh doses of indigenously developed Covaxin were being obtained from Bharat Biotech, Union Health Secretary Rajesh Bhushan said at a press conference. "Fifty-five lakh doses of Covaxin are being procured from Bharat Biotech. For 38.5 lakh doses the price is Rs 295 each, excluding taxes. Bharat Biotech is providing 16.5 lakh doses for free which ultimately brings the cost of Covaxin down to Rs 206 per dose," he said. Bhushan said there are four Central Government Medical Stores Depots at Chennai, Karnal, Kolkata and Mumbai where the Oxford Covid-19 vaccine, Covishield, doses are being received. Besides this, all states have at least one regional vaccine store. Some big states have multiple stores. Uttar Pradesh has nine such stores, Madhya Pradesh and Gujarat four each, Kerala has three such facilities, Jammu and Kashmir, Karnataka and Rajasthan two each, he said. "As we speak, 54,72,000 doses have already been received till 4 pm at these vaccine stores, while 100 per cent doses, 1.1 crore from Serum Institute and 55 lakh from Bharat Biotech, will be received by January 14 in all states and Union Territories," the health secretary added. NITI Aayog member Dr V K Paul, Covishield and Covaxin have been tested on thousands of people. "They are the safest and there is no risk of any significant side effect." Bhushan said that Zydus Cadila, Russia's Sputnik V, Biological E and Gennova are the other vaccines which are in advanced stages of clinical trials in India. "In the coming days some of these vaccines too may be approaching the drug controller for emergency use authorisation. There will be sequential roll-out of COVID-19 vaccination. "Healthcare workers will be on the top of priority list, followed by frontline workers and prioritized age groups. The cost of vaccination for healthcare and frontline workers will be borne by the central government," the Union health secretary said. Giving a scenario of the price of vaccines available round the world, Bhushan said each dose of the vaccine developed by Pfizer-BioNTech costs Rs 1,431 per dose, Moderna Rs 2,348 to Rs 2,715, Sinovac Rs 1,027, Novavax Rs 1,114, Sputnik V less than Rs 734 and the one developed by Johnson and Johnson at Rs 734. "All these vaccines except the one developed by Pfizer can be stored between two to eight degrees Celsius. The one developed by Pfizer needs to be stored at -70 degrees Celsius," he added. About the effectiveness of the vaccines, Bhushan said those can be observed only after 14 days. "So we urge people to keep following COVID-appropriate behaviour." The health secretary said the five key principles for anti-coronavirus vaccination are to ensure people's participation, utilise the experience of elections and universal immunisation programme, making no compromise on scientific and regulatory norms and neither on existing healthcare services. Noting that the COVID-19 situation is worrisome around the world, he said even though daily new cases are declining in India, there should not be any laxity in following COVID-appropriate behaviour. India's overall COVID-19 positivity rate stands at 5.7 per cent while positivity rate in the last one week was recorded at 2 per cent, Bhushan said, adding that about 43.96 per cent of the total COVID-19 patients are in healthcare facilities while 56.04 per cent patients are in home isolation.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-419
12-01-2021||India||Two persons granted bail in Delhi riot case||A Delhi court Tuesday granted bail to two persons in a case related to the north-east Delhi riots while casting doubts on the credibility of the two police witnesses in the matter. Additional Sessions Judge Vinod Yadav granted the relief to Mohd Shoaib and Shahrukh on furnishing a bail bond of Rs 20,000 with surety of like amount in the case of alleged vandalism and torching of a shop by a riotous mob in Gokalpuri area. The court noted that the prosecution was opposing both the bail pleas on the strength of their categorical identification by beat officers -- Constable Vipin and Head Constable Hari Babu -- in their statements recorded under section 161 (examination by police) of the Code of Criminal Procedure on April 7, 2020. Their identification was hardly of any consequence, it said, adding that even though they were posted as beat officers in the area at the relevant time of the incident, they waited till April to name the accused when they had categorically seen and identified them allegedly indulging in riots on February 25, 2020. Being police officials, what stopped them from reporting the matter then and there in the police station or to bring the same in the knowledge of higher police officers. This cast serious doubt on the credibility of two police witnesses, the cour said in its order. It further said that the CCTV footage relied upon by the police in the case pertained to February 24, 2020, whereas the incident took place the next day. No CCTV/video footage of February 25, 2020, (on which date the incident in question took place) has been placed on record by the investigating agency. "The applicants (Shoaib and Shahrukh) were not arrested from the spot, instead their arrest has been formally affected in the case on April 15, 2020 (i.e after lapse of about 55 days of the date of incident) in Mandoli Jail..., it added. It also said both the accused were entitled for grant of bail on the ground of parity as the role assigned to them was on identical footing as co-accused Rashid who was already enlarged on bail. Be that as it may, the investigation in the matter is complete; charge sheet has also been filed; trial in the matter is likely to take long time; applicants cannot be made to incarcerate in jail for infinity merely on account of the fact that other persons who were part of the riotous mob have to be identified and arrested in the matter, it said. It directed both the accused not to tamper with evidence and to install Aarogya Setu app on their mobile phones. During the hearing, advocate Salim Malik, appearing for the accused, claimed they have been falsely implicated in the matter and were mere bonafide bystanders. Special Public Prosecutor D K Bhatia, appearing for the police, argued that both the accused were allegedly present at the spot with an unlawful assembly which was armed with stones, sticks, petrol bombs and acid bottles. Communal violence had broken out in northeast Delhi on February 24 last year after clashes between the Citizenship (Amendment) Act supporters and protesters spiralled out of control leaving at least 53 people dead and around 200 injured.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-419
12-01-2021||India||Rahul to visit Madurai to witness ‘Jallikattu’, lend moral support to farmers||Former Congress president Rahul Gandhi is scheduled to visit Jamil Nadu on January 14, on the day of Pongal, and witness its bull-taming event ‘Jallikattu’, the party’s state chief K.S. Alagiri said on Tuesday. Gandhi would lend his moral support to farmers protesting against the new farm laws across the country by witnessing the sport at Avaniyapuram in Madurai district, he told reporters here. “The bull is a symbol of farmers and part of their lives,” the Tamil Nadu Congress Committee president said. The leader’s visit is aimed at honouring “the farmers and the valorous Tamil culture on the day of harvest festival and he will not engage in election campaigns on that day,” Alagiri said. Assembly elections in tamil Nadu are due in April-May. "The general public should gather in large numbers for the event." Billing Gandhi’s event as ‘Rahulin Tamil Vanakkam’, he said it was also intended to dislodge the ‘inept’ AIADMK regime, ‘subservient’ to the Centre. Only Tamil Nadu Chief Minister K Palaniswami and his party the AIADMK supported the Central government's three farm laws and no other political party favoured it, he claimed. Gandhi is scheduled to arrive at Madurai by 11 am on Pongal day and would be spending about four hours in the temple town. “Though there are no other scheduled events like interaction with farmers, such programmes might take place if the leader so desired,” Alagiri said. Gandhi also has no plans to visit the alliance party DMK’s president M.K. Stalin or other leaders, he said. During his visit to western Tamil Nadu, likely towards the month end, Gandhi could meet allies, he said adding his party senior leader had a plan to campaign extensively in Tamil Nadu. Priyanka Gandhi would also be invited to the state in the run up to the polls, he said. To a question, he mocked the AIADMK alliance in Tamil Nadu and alleged the partners in the ruling party led combine could not even agree upon the Chief Ministerial candidate. The BJP, after maintaining for some time that NDA would announce the CM candidate said on Monday that the AIADMK, the 'major' partner would decide it. The TNCC chief said his party stood behind DMK chief M K Stalin and he is the CM candidate of the alliance. Harmony prevailed in the DMK camp and it was absent in the AIADMK combine, he claimed ruling out scope for discord between Congress and DMK in seat sharing for the Assembly polls.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-420
12-01-2021||India||Army Chief hopeful of solution on eastern Ladakh standoff||Chief of Army Staff Gen MM Naravane on Tuesday said he was hopeful that India and China will be able to reach an agreement to resolve the eastern Ladakh standoff but at the same time asserted that Indian troops will maintain a high state of combat readiness to deal with any eventuality. Addressing a press conference ahead of the Army Day, Gen Naravane said the operational preparedness of the Indian armed forces has been of very high level and they will continue to hold onto their ground. "We are prepared to hold our ground as long it takes to achieve our national goals and objectives," he said. Talking about increasing security challenges at the Line of Actual Control, the Chief of Army Staff said a need was felt about "rebalancing" of troops along the northern borders, adding "that is what we have put in place now." The Chief of Army staff said he was hopeful that India and China will be able to reach an agreement for disengagement and de-escalation based on an approach of mutual and equal security. "I am confident of finding a solution to the issue on the basis of mutual and equal security," he said. Gen Naravane said there was no reduction in the deployment of troops by both India and China in eastern Ladakh. The Chief of Army Staff said Indian troops are maintaining high level of alertness all along the Line of Actual Control and not just Ladakh. Nearly 50,000 troops of the Indian Army are currently deployed in a high state of combat readiness in various mountainous locations in eastern Ladakh in sub-zero temperatures as multiple rounds of talks between the two sides have not yielded concrete outcome to resolve the standoff. China has also deployed an equal number of troops, according to officials. Last month, India and China held another round of diplomatic talks under the framework of Working Mechanism for Consultation and Coordination (WMCC) on India-China border affairs. The eighth and last round of military talks between the two sides had taken place on November 6 during which both sides broadly discussed disengagement of troops from specific friction points. India has all along been maintaining that the onus is on China to carry forward the process of disengagement and de-escalation at the friction points in the mountainous region. Following the sixth round of military talks, the two sides had announced a slew of decisions including not to send more troops to the frontline, refrain from unilaterally changing the situation on the ground and avoid taking any actions that may further complicate matters. This round was held with a specific agenda of exploring ways to implement a five-point agreement reached between External Affairs Minister S Jaishankar and his Chinese counterpart Wang Yi at a meeting in Moscow on September 10 on the sidelines of a Shanghai Cooperation Organisation(SCO) conclave. The pact included measures like quick disengagement of troops, avoiding action that could escalate tensions, adherence to all agreements and protocols on border management and steps to restore peace along the LAC.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-420
12-01-2021||India||Farmer leaders welcome SC verdict staying implementation of farm laws||Farmer leaders welcomed the Supreme Court's order to stay the implementation of three farm laws on Tuesday but said they would not call off their protest until the legislations are repealed. The Sankyukt Kisan Morcha, an umbrella body of around 40 protesting farmer unions, has called a meeting later in the day to decide the next course of action. The farmer leaders said they are not willing to participate in any proceedings before a committee appointed by the Supreme Court, but a formal decision on this will be taken by the Morcha. "We welcome the court's order to stay the implementation of the farm laws, but we want a complete repeal of these laws," Abhimanyu Kohar, a senior leader of the Morcha, told PTI. Another farmer leader, Harinder Lokhwal, said the protest will continue until the contentious farm laws are repealed. The Supreme Court stayed the implementation of the controversial farm laws till further orders on Tuesday and decided to set up a committee to resolve the impasse between the Centre and the farmers' unions protesting at Delhi's borders over the legislations. A bench headed by Chief Justice S A Bobde said it will pass an order to this effect. The committee will look into the farmers' grievances against the three laws. Thousands of farmers, mostly from Haryana and Punjab, have been protesting at several border points of Delhi since November 28 last year, demanding a repeal of the three laws and a legal guarantee on the minimum support price for their crops.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-420
12-01-2021||India||Dynasty politics the poison in democracy, asserts PM||Describing dynastic politics as the "biggest enemy of democracy", Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Tuesday said it has to be rooted out completely and asserted that the fortune of those who have been winning elections on the basis of surnames are now dwindling. Addressing the valedictory function of the second National Youth Parliament Festival through video conference, Modi exhorted young people to join politics and said the "poison of dynastic politics" will continue to weaken democracy unless they enter it. "The biggest enemy of democracy still exists and that is dynastic politics. Dynastic politics is such a challenge before the country and it has to be rooted out," Modi said. "It is true that (in politics) the fortunes of those who have been winning elections on the basis of surnames are dwindling. But in politics, this disease of dynastic politics is not completely finished. There are still people whose politics is aimed at saving their family," he said in an apparent swipe at several opposition parties, including the Congress. It is never "nation first" for those practising dynastic politics and it is all about "me and my family" for them, he said. "Like all sectors, politics also needs youth. Their thinking, energy, enthusiasm is needed by the politics in the country. Earlier there was the sentiment that if any youth used to turn toward politics, then their family used to say that the youth is going astray," Modi said. Noting that people used to say everything can change but not politics, Modi said today the people of the country have become so aware that they stand with honest people and give them a chance. The people stand resolutely with people who come in politics with honesty and are committed to the welfare, he noted. "The awareness that has come in the country has created pressure, those whose legacy was corruption, their corruption has become a burden on them. This is the power of the awareness of the common citizen," Modi said. Three national winners of the festival also expressed their views during the event in the central hall of Parliament. In his address, Modi also paid rich tributes to Swami Vivekananda, whose birth anniversary fell on Tuesday, and said his ideals have inspired people, including during the freedom struggle, of every generation.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-420
12-01-2021||India||SC suspends three farm laws for now, sets up committee||The Supreme Court suspended the implementation of three contentious farm laws till further notice on Tuesday and formed a committee of experts to facilitate talks between the Centre and the protesting farmers and resolve the impasse. Before pronouncing the order, the bench headed by Chief Justice S.A. Bobde commenced the hearing and urged the farmers' unions to cooperate and go before the committee to be appointed by it to resolve the dispute. "We are concerned about protecting the lives and property of citizens of India and we want to solve the problem," said the bench which also comprised Justices A S Bopanna and V Ramasubramanian. The apex court stayed the implementation of the three laws -- the Farmers' (Empowerment and Protection) Agreement on Price Assurance and Farm Services Act, the Farmers' Produce Trade and Commerce (Promotion and Facilitation) Act, and the Essential Commodities (Amendment) Act -- against which several petitions have been filed challenging their constitutional validity. The bench, which read out names of four members of the committee, said it would look into the farmers' grievances.  The four are: Bhupinder Singh Mann, President of Bhartiya Kisan Union; Anil Ghanwat, President of Shetkeri Sangthana, Maharashtra; Pramod Kumar Joshi, director for South Asia, International Food Policy Research Institute; and agriculture economist Ashok Gulati. In the proceedings conducted through video conferencing, it said no power can prevent us from making committee to resolve the impasse on new farm laws. It reiterated the apex court has powers to suspend the legislation in order to solve the problem. The bench said those who "genuinely want resolution, will go to the committee" on farm laws. It highlighted the difference between judiciary and the politics and asked the farmers to cooperate with it. "This is not politics. There is a difference between politics and judiciary and you will have to cooperate", it said to farmer unions. The SC also sought response from the Centre on whether a banned organisation had infiltrated the farmers’ protests. The direction came after P S Narasimha, who represented a petitioner supporting the farm laws, claimed members of  “Sikhs for Justice” were  helping the protests, reported The Indian Express. The bench said it deems fit to pass the interim order with the hope and expectation that both parties will take this in the right spirit and attempt to arrive at a fair, equitable and just solution to the problems . The bench also lauded the farmers for carrying out agitation against the farm laws peacefully and without any untoward incident. While we may not stifle a peaceful protest, we think that this extraordinary order of stay of implementation of the farm laws will be perceived as an achievement of the purpose of such protest at least for the present and will encourage the farmers bodies to convince their members to get back to their livelihood, both in order to protect their own lives and health and in order to protect the lives and properties of others, the bench said and posted the matter for further hearing after eight weeks. Saying Khalistanis were part of the protests, the Attorney General said he would file an affidavit with Intelligence Bureau records by Wednesday. The apex court also issued notices on Delhi Police petition seeking to stop the tractor rally planned by farmers on Republic Day. The Centre and farmer unions have engaged in eight rounds of talks so far, but failed to break the impasse. Their next meeting is scheduled on January 15. On Monday, the apex court had pulled up the Centre for its handling of the farmers protest against the new farm laws saying it is extremely disappointed with the way negotiations between them were going. It also spoke of constituting a committee headed by a former Chief Justice of India to resolve the impasse. The protesting farmers on Monday night thanked the Supreme Court but politely declined to join the proceedings of the committee citing the “stubborn attitude of the government”. Later in the day on Monday, the Centre filed a 45-page affidavit in the court to claim that only a “limited number of farmers” and “others” were opposing the laws and that “farmers of the nation are happy”, PTI reported. The affidavit described the demand for repeal of the laws as “neither justifiable nor acceptable”. It also denied that the laws were “passed hurriedly” without consultation. At night, the Morcha issued a statement in which it expressed great respect for the apex court and for its “understanding of the problem and comforting words expressed during the hearing”. It said they have decided not to participate in the committee’s proceedings either individually or collectively because the “attitude and approach’’ of the government in court had made it clear they will not agree to any discussion on repeal of the laws that the farmers’ believe will be their “death warrant”.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-420
12-01-2021||India||Relocated tiger flees from Rajaji Tiger Reserve||A tiger translocated recently to Rajaji Tiger Reserve has fled from its Motichoor range creating panic among people living in the periphery of the forest area. The five-year-old male tiger dropped its radio-collar in the enclosure meant for it and fled somewhere, Principal Chief Conservator of Forests Rajiv Bhartari said. The big cat was translocated to Rajaji Tiger Reserve from Corbett Tiger Reserve recently. This is the mating season for tigers and the translocation had been done in the hope of strengthening the tiger population at Rajaji Tiger Reserve, especially in the western part, according to officials. Bhartari admitted that fleeing of the big cat from its enclosure was a jolt to the tiger relocation project of the Uttarakhand government. In the present circumstances it has become difficult to keep track of the movement of the big cat, he asserted. However, as the radio collar had been dropped in the enclosure, forest guards remained under the illusion that the tiger was still there. The situation is being reviewed in accordance with the guidelines of the National Tiger Conservation Authority to deal with the challenge and ensure that an incident like this does not occur in future, Bhartari said. He said it will also be probed who radio-collared the tiger after tranquilising it before translocating it from the Dhela range of Corbett to Rajaji Tiger Reserve. All efforts are focussed at the moment on tracing the tiger, the official said. People living on the outer fringe of Rajaji Tiger Reserve are in panic with a big cat on the loose in the area. Director of Wildlife Institute of India Dhananjay Mohan said such incidents have also occurred in the past. There can be many factors behind it, he added. "There are other ways to monitor the movement of the tiger which will be utilised to track him, Mohan said. The Wildlife Institute of India is a partner in the ongoing tiger relocation project of Uttarakhand.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-420
12-01-2021||India||India logs 12,584 fresh Covid cases, 167 casualties in a day||India recorded 12,584 new cases of coronavirus, the lowest in around seven months, taking the country's Covid-19 caseload to 1,04,79,179, according to the Union Health Ministry data updated on Tuesday. The death toll increased to 1,51,327 with 167 daily new fatalities, the data updated at 8 am showed. The number of people who have recuperated from the disease surged to 1,01,11,294 pushing the national Covid-19 recovery rate to 96.49 per cent, while the Covid-19 case fatality rate stands at 1.44 per cent. The Covid-19 active caseload remained below 3 lakh. There are 2,16,558 active coronavirus infections in the country which comprises 2.07 per cent of the total caseload, the data stated. India's Covid-19 tally had crossed the 20-lakh mark on August 7, 30 lakh on August 23, 40 lakh on September 5 and 50 lakh on September 16. It went past 60 lakh on September 28, 70 lakh on October 11, crossed 80 lakh on October 29, 90 lakh on November 20 and surpassed the one-crore mark on December 19. According to the ICMR, 18,26,52,887 samples have been tested up to January 11 with 8,97,056 samples being tested on Monday. The 167 new fatalities include 40 from Maharashtra, 20 from Kerala, 16 from West Bengal, 15 from Chhattisgarh and 13 from Delhi. A total of 151327 deaths have been reported so far in the country including 50,101 from Maharashtra followed by 12,228 from Tamil Nadu, 12,144 from Karnataka, 10,691 from Delhi, 9,957 from West Bengal, 8,504 from Uttar Pradesh, 7,131 from Andhra Pradesh and 5,447 from Punjab. The health ministry stressed that more than 70 per cent of the deaths occurred due to comorbidities. "Our figures are being reconciled with the Indian Council of Medical Research," the ministry said on its website, adding that state-wise distribution of figures is subject to further verification and reconciliation.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-420
12-01-2021||India||Delhi's minimum temperature down to under five degree Celsius||Delhi's minimum temperature dropped to 4.3 degrees Celsius on Tuesday, and is likely to dip further in the coming days, the India Meteorological Department (IMD) said. The Safdarjung Observatory, which provides representative data for the city, recorded a minimum of 4.3 degrees Celsius, three notches below normal, an IMD official said. Delhi had been registering above normal minimum temperatures till Monday, as a cloud cover persisted over the city under the influence of successive Western Disturbances. Delhi's minimum had settled at 7 degrees on Monday, 7.8 degrees Celsius on Sunday, 10.8 degrees Celsius on Saturday, 9.6 degrees Celsius on Friday and 14.4 degrees Celsius on Thursday, the highest in January in four years, according to IMD. The cloud cover over the national capital has prevented a steep decline in the minimum temperature so far, the IMD official said. Clouds trap some of the outgoing infrared radiation and radiate it back downward, warming the ground. However, the minimum temperature has started declining with the commencement of northwesterly winds from snow-capped mountains towards the plains starting Saturday, the official said. The mercury is set to drop further. Moderate to dense fog is also predicted over the capital on Thursday and Friday, the IMD official said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-420
12-01-2021||India||Sri Jagannath temple to lift Covid report requirement||The administration of the Sri Jagannath temple in Puri on Sunday announced relaxations to the restrictions imposed on the visitors to the shrine that reopened recently after a nine-month closure forced by the corona pandemic. The 12th Century temple administration, following a high-level meeting on Sunday, decided that devotees will no more have to submit Covid-19 negative reports for darshan of the deities from January 21. This was announced by the chief temple administrator Krishan Kumar. Kumar said the decision to relax restrictions was taken in the interest of devotees. Now the temple administration will make special arrangements to facilitate the “darshan’ of the deities by elderly people. “The temple will remain closed once a week (Sundays) to carry out sanitation and disinfection measures. Steps have been taken to make provision of darshan by nearly 30,000 devotees per day. All the Covid-19 related restrictions will continue to remain in force,” said Kumar. The temple had reopened on December 23, 2020 but initially only the temple servitors and their family members were only allowed to have “darshan” of the deities. The ordinary citizens of Puri were allowed entry into the temple between December 26 and 31. Later, the temple opened its doors to the public but Covid-19 negative report was made mandatory for entry. Visitors are also screened at the special counters set up outside the temple.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-420
12-01-2021||India||Naveen Patnaik first to submit property list||Odisha chief minister Naveen Patnaik has become the first to put his property details in the public domain, making the move within weeks of announcing that all public representatives and bureaucrats of the state will submit their property lists that will be open to public scrutiny and also referred to the Lokayukta. According to the details uploaded on the official website of the chief minister’s office (CMO), Naveen was worth around Rs 78 crore as on March 31, 2020. Last year, his net assets had totalled Rs 63.87 crore, according to the affidavit submitted by him while filing his nomination for the Hinjili Assembly seat. In 2015, his assets were valued at Rs 48 crore. The statement uploaded on the CMO site shows his total assets valued at Rs 77,93,19,764. These include movable assets such as bank accounts, jewellery and a vehicle amounting to Rs 13,04,04,503, immovable assets worth Rs 63,64,15,261 and liabilities amounting to Rs 1,25,00,000. His moveable properties include cash in some bank accounts including Rs 16,76,018.63 in the savings account of Bank of India, Janpath, New Delhi branch, a term deposit worth Rs 1,03,13,499 in the same bank branch. He also has some small deposits in banks in Odisha. The chief minister owns jewellery worth around Rs 2,89,587 and a 1980 model ambassador car worth around Rs 8,905. Similarly, his immoveable properties, all inherited, include farmland and a building situated in village Tikrikhera, Sohna Road, Dist. Faridabad. The farmland that measures 22.7 acres was valued at around Rs. 10,75,51,071 according to estimates made on March 31, 2017. Then he has 2\3rd share in “Naveen Nivas”, the sprawling bungalow on Bhubaneswar’s Airport Road in which he presently lives. It has been valued at around Rs 9,52,46,190. Similarly, he has 50% share in a property situated on 3, A.P.J. Abdul Kalam Road in New Delhi valued at around Rs 43,36,18,000. He inherited this property from his late parents, Biju Patnaik and Gyan Patnaik. On the liability side he has taken an advance of Rs 1,25,00,000 against the sale of farmland at Faridabad vide agreement to sell dated 18th September 2019. Patnaik, thus, may appear rich in terms of his total wealth but the bulk of it is made up of inherited immoveable property. It is quite apparent that the socialite author-turned-politician is neither a great lover of jewellery nor cars. The total jewellery in his possession is just worth around Rs 2,89,587 while the only vehicle he owns is a 1980 model ambassador car worth around Rs 8,905. Patnaik, who holds the unique record of leading his party to five back-to-back elections in the state, is known for simple life style. Invariably clad in a crumpled but clean kurta-pyjama he has been laying special emphasis on cleanliness in public life and transparency in governance. His policy of zero tolerance for corruption has paid rich dividends in elections. Addressing ruling Biju Janata Dal’s (BJD) state executive council meeting over two weeks ago the chief minister, who also happens to be the president of the party, had announced that property details of BJD ministers, MLAs, MPs, chairpersons of panchayat samitis, zilla parishad presidents and sarpanches would be available in the public domain. He had said that all government employees, including the chief secretary, would also have to submit their property lists to the Lokayukta, state’s anti-corruption ombusdsman.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-420
12-01-2021||India||SC willing to stay implementation of the new farm laws||The Supreme Court said on Monday that it was willing to put on hold the implementation of the new farm laws and explore the possibility of appointing a committee headed by one of its former judges to broker a solution. The court criticised the Centre for the inadequate consultative process and said: “We are extremely disappointed at the way the government is handling all this.” The protesting farmers, who have been insisting on the full repeal of the new laws that they fear will leave them at the mercy of corporate groups, expressed great respect for the court’s views but cited the government’s stubborn attitude to say they would not take part in the proceedings of the proposed committee. The bench, headed by Chief Justice of India S.A. Bobde, emphasised that it was considering a stay only on the implementation of the laws, not the laws themselves. A formal order is expected at noon on Tuesday. However, the legal fraternity appeared divided over whether the court can stay even the implementation of laws passed by Parliament and whether a committee appointed by the court can look into an issue that falls within the domain of the legislature. A section of lawyers felt that, instead of getting embroiled in legislative matters, the Supreme Court should look into whether the Centre could have passed such laws in a matter involving the states, too. Agriculture by itself is a state subject but certain components, such as interstate trade in commodities, figure on the concurrent list. The lawyers who endorsed the initiative by the bench felt that Article 142, which legalises an order issued by the Supreme Court for ensuring complete justice in a matter pending before it, empowers the top court to do so. While a law is enacted by Parliament, it is implemented by the executive, which can be stayed by the court, they added. Responding to a lawyer’s suggestion, the court said it was not averse to appointing former judge R.S. Lodha, who had recommended changes in the cricket administration, as head of the proposed committee. During Monday’s hearing, the bench, whose other judges are Justices A.S. Bopanna and V. Ramasubramanian, said: “We are the Supreme Court of India and we will do our job. You made a law without enough consultations…. We are extremely disappointed at the way the government is handling all this. We don’t know what consultative process you followed before the laws were enacted. Many states are up in rebellion. There are protests all over and strikes are on.” Justice Bobde said: “We are sorry to say that you, as the Union of India, are not able to solve the problem. You have made a law without consultations. We think you can resolve it. But you are not able to do it. As we said, we want to appoint a committee.” Addressing attorney-general K.K. Venugopal and solicitor-general Tushar Mehta, both appearing for the Centre, the Chief Justice said: “You tell us if you will put on hold the implementation of the laws. Otherwise, we will do it. What is your (the Centre’s) problem in keeping it in abeyance?” The attorney-general said the court should not interfere in the matter unless Parliament lacked the legislative competence to enact such laws. The court should not rush through the matter, Venugopal said. “Don’t tell us that. We have so far given you a very long rope. So, don’t lecture us on patience,” Justice Bobde responded. The Chief Justice reminded the attorney-general that there was a difference between staying a law and staying the implementation of the law. “We are not on the merits of the law. We are not on repeal. This is a very delicate situation in the country…. We don’t see why there is an insistence on implementation of the law,” Justice Bobde said. He remarked that there was not a single petition before the court saying the new laws were beneficial to the farmers. However, after these observations, a couple of farmer organisations said they supported the new laws. “If the law is beneficial, let the vast majority of the country tell the committee…. People are committing suicide. People are calling names. People are suffering in cold and pandemic,” the court said. “We want to make it clear we are not stifling protest. You can carry (on with) the protest. But the question is, whether protest should be held at the same site? We want to ensure no violence or bloodshed in the streets,” the court told senior advocates Dushyant Dave, P.S. Phoolka and Colin Gonzalves, who were appearing for various farmers’ groups. Justice Bobde asked these senior lawyers to go back to the farmers and ask them to return home as the court would stay the implementation of the laws. The court said it was also concerned about the plight of the protesters, many of whom are women and children. The Centre later filed an affidavit defending the way the laws had been passed and seeking a restraint on the farmers’ tractor rally, scheduled for January 26, TV channels reported on Monday night.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-421
12-01-2021||India||Centre to bear expenses for the first stage of Covid vaccine drive||The Centre will bear the expenses for the first stage of the Covid vaccination campaign that seeks to immunise around 30 million healthcare and frontline workers nationwide, Prime Minister Narendra Modi announced on Monday. The announcement and a reported reply by the Prime Minister to a question from chief minister Mamata Banerjee suggest the Centre has not yet decided whether to give the vaccine free in the second stage and subsequent rounds covering the larger population. Mamata had asked Modi what the Centre’s policy would be on providing the vaccine to the remaining 127 crore people in the country. “She requested him to roll out a detailed road map regarding vaccination of the people at large…. She also wanted the Centre to make it clear whether the states need to procure vaccines for the rest of the population (beyond the priority categories),” said an official. Modi told Mamata the issue would be discussed with the states on completion of the first two phases of the vaccination campaign, sources said. “The chief minister made it clear that the state was ready to procure vaccines for the larger population and, in that case, the Centre should provide the necessary guidance about the procurement,” an official said. CNBC-TV18 channel reported on Monday that the government had placed an order for 11 million doses with the Serum Institute of India at Rs 200 a dose. A Serum Institute source told The Telegraph the quoted price was correct, but declined comment on the doses ordered. At Rs 200 per dose for Covishield, the first stage of the campaign to vaccinate 30 million healthcare and frontline workers would cost Rs 1,200 crore. The total cost would change if the Centre also plans to use the home-grown Covaxin and if the price of that vaccine is different. Modi, who chaired an online conference with chief ministers on the vaccination campaign, scheduled to start on January 16, iterated that everyone above 50 years, and those below 50 with chronic health disorders, would be vaccinated during the second stage. All healthcare workers from government and private institutions and frontline workers such as police and paramilitary personnel, municipal workers, home guards, disaster management volunteers and revenue officials would be covered in the first stage. State governments will not have to bear any cost towards vaccinating these 30 million people, Modi told the chief ministers, adding that the Centre would bear this cost. India aims to achieve vaccination for 300 million people in the next few months, he said. Health officials had earlier indicated that the campaign could take six to eight months. The government is expected to rely on two vaccines approved for restricted emergency use by India's regulatory authority - the AstraZeneca-Oxford vaccine, made in India by the Serum Institute, and Covaxin from Bharat Biotech. The Union health ministry has not yet said how many doses of which vaccine would be used where but, a health official guiding the vaccination strategy said, one option would be to distribute the two vaccines across different geographical areas. Both vaccines involve two doses and the recipients must receive the same vaccine as the second dose. Health experts say the pace of immunisation would depend on the vaccine supply as well as the number of vaccines that can be administered per day. The health ministry had earlier said it had trained around 96 million vaccinators for the campaign. Modi, during the conference, said all states and Union Territories would need to put in place mechanisms to keep rumours related to vaccination in check. The health ministry had asserted that those who received the vaccines would need to continue to follow Covid-appropriate behaviour — wearing masks, avoiding crowds and following hand-washing hygiene.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-421
12-01-2021||India||Govt to elite campuses: regular appointments to only 60%  teachers||An array of educational institutions the government has handpicked to achieve global excellence have now been told they need to give regular appointments to only 60 per cent of their teachers, a move academics said would lower standards at these elite campuses. Till now, all higher-education institutions were expected to appoint only regular teachers, though there was no hard and fast rule. Despite a recent trend of recruiting ad-hoc teachers, regular teachers now make up 80 to 95 per cent of the faculty strength at the best colleges and universities. However, the University Grants Commission (UGC) last week notified the 60 per cent rule in an amendment to its regulations for deemed-to-be universities that have been granted Institute of Eminence status. In 2018 and 2019, the government had granted the exalted status to 10 public-funded and 10 privately funded institutions, allowing them to decide their fees and courses so they could achieve global excellence. Among these were IISc Bangalore, the IITs in Mumbai, Delhi, Kharagpur and Madras, and Delhi University. Last week’s notification applies to most of the private institutions with Eminence status, as well as IISc Bangalore. Education ministry officials said the relaxation was likely to be extended soon to the rest of the Institutes of Eminence. Abha Deb Habib, former DU executive council member, said the new norms would encourage “institutionalisation” of the system of appointing ad-hoc and guest teachers. “Guest and visiting faculty cannot be the strength of an institution. Institutions grow because of the constant contributions from regular faculty who carry out a lot of responsibilities apart from teaching,” she said. “An increase in the number of part-time or contractual faculty will severely compromise the stability of units and academic standards.” Many universities have shown an inclination to have part-time teachers -– such as guest teachers, contractual teachers and visiting teachers, appointed for short periods -– because they are paid less and are not entitled to pension or gratuity. Under the original regulations for the Institutions of Eminence, devised in 2017, their faculty-student ratio could not be less than 1:20 at the time their Eminence status was notified. Further, within five years, this ratio had to rise to not less than 1:10. “Faculty” in this context included regular teachers as well as adjunct teachers and long-term teachers, who tended to be experts from industry or other fields and were appointed for periods ranging from six months to three years. Part-time teachers were, however, left out of the calculation. Under the latest amendment, every kind of teacher counts while determining the faculty-student ratio, including overseas faculty teaching online. “Provided that 60 per cent of faculty shall be appointed on permanent/ regular basis,” the notification said. Habib flagged several downsides of the amended rules, which many academics fear may later be extended to all universities. One, UGC regulations allow only regular teachers to supervise PhD scholars. “This (a fall in the number of regular teachers) will affect research output. A regular faculty member can guide only a fixed number of students. So, the number of PhD students will fall (for a lack of guides),” Habib said. Two, “if ad-hocism is institutionalised, why should any talented person think of joining academics instead of corporate jobs?” she said. DU academic council member Sudhanshu Kumar said that guest and visiting faculty, who are paid less and have no opportunities for career growth, do not help with the management of examinations, admissions, hostels or placements. He saw a wider agenda behind the notification. “The government does not want any institution to recruit permanent teachers. This betrays its neglect of higher education,” he said. He feared the chronic neglect would damage all government universities, hurting “students from the socially backward classes, who are largely poor, the most”. A senior IIT Kharagpur official said the government had in the past five years twice raised the institute’s student strength, first by 20 per cent to create supernumerary seats for female students and then by another 25 per cent to accommodate the economically weaker sections quota. However, on neither occasion was the faculty strength bolstered. “This 60 per cent norm will severely affect the pursuit for excellence. Our faculty-student ratio has already worsened over the last five years because of the EWS quota and supernumerary seats for female students,” the official said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-421
12-01-2021||India||Protesting farmers refuse to join proceedings of SC appointed committee||The protesting farmers on Monday night thanked the Supreme Court but politely declined to join the proceedings of the committee it plans to appoint to broker a solution on the three farm laws, citing the “stubborn attitude of the government”. The Sanyukta Kisan Morcha, the banner under which farmer unions and collectives from across the country are demanding the repeal of the laws, had been silent all day after the hearing in the Supreme Court in the morning. Later in the day, the Centre filed a 45-page affidavit in the court to claim that only a “limited number of farmers” and “others” were opposing the laws and that “farmers of the nation are happy”, PTI reported. The affidavit described the demand for repeal of the laws as “neither justifiable nor acceptable”. It also denied that the laws were “passed hurriedly” without consultation. At night, the Morcha issued a statement in which it expressed great respect for the apex court and for its “understanding of the problem and comforting words expressed during the hearing”. It said they have decided not to participate in the committee’s proceedings either individually or collectively because the “attitude and approach’’ of the government in court had made it clear they will not agree to any discussion on repeal of the laws that the farmers’ believe will be their “death warrant”. The protesting farmers anticipate that the committee would be a repetition of what has happened in the eight meetings they have held with the government since November 26, when they began gathering at Delhi’s borders on the All India Kisan Sangharsh Coordination Committee’s (AIKSCC) call for Dilli Chalo. Tens of thousands of farmers are camped at Delhi’s borders for over 40 days in the bitter cold and more than 70 have died. While the bulk are from Punjab, Haryana, Rajasthan and Uttar Pradesh, many farmers have come from as far away as Maharashtra, Madhya Pradesh, Karnataka and Tamil Nadu. “Farmers and we as their representatives once again express our gratitude to the Honourable Supreme Court but regret our inability to accede their suggestions,’’ the statement said. The consultations on this issue were held by the eight union leaders who had been issued notices in the case and their lawyers, it added. Since the Morcha and AIKSCC had early in the agitation decided not to approach the court for repeal of the laws, none other than the eight that were served notices by the court had impleaded in the case. On Sunday, the AIKSCC had said that the “Supreme Court does not and cannot have any role” in resolving the political deadlock over the contentious farm laws, arguing that the decision to enact them was a political choice the Modi government made to give preference to corporate interests over farmers. “The Modi government is shirking political responsibility of solving the crisis of it’s own making... It is misusing the Supreme Court as a political shield,’’ the AIKSCC said. On Friday, after agriculture minister Narendra Singh Tomar had asked them to go to court as the government was not prepared to repeal the laws, the farmer unions had made it clear that they would continue with their agitation till their goal is met, even if the Supreme Court verdict is not in their favour. The Morcha issued its statement late in the night after the court’s cause list was released for Tuesday, which made it clear that there would not be any more hearings but only pronouncement of orders. According to the Morcha, its lawyers had requested another hearing on Tuesday to be able to get back after consulting the organisations they represent on the suggestions made by the court. The Opposition parties, which are supporting the farmers’ demand for repeal of the laws rushed through Parliament in September overriding their protests, said they would take a call on their own future course of action depending on the Supreme Court verdict and the farming community’s response to it. CPM general secretary Sitaram Yechury and his CPI counterpart D. Raja met NCP leader Sharad Pawar in the capital on Monday and discussed the farmers’ agitation. Raja later told reporters that the three discussed the hearing. “But the decision on what has to be done has to be taken by the farmers. They have to react to it. We stand by their demand for the repeal of the laws.’’ After the verdict and after the farmers reveal their cards, the Opposition parties could hold an all-party meeting in the coming days, and Congress interim president Sonia Gandhi has begun working the phones for it. Meanwhile, Haryana police have filed a case against Bharatiya Kisan Union (Chaduni) leader Gurnam Singh Chaduni and others for vandalisation of the venue of chief minister Manohar Lal Khattar’s meeting in Karnal on Sunday. Chaduni told reporters he took full responsibility for not allowing Khattar to hold his meeting to promote the bills, saying this was in response to the BJP’s efforts to break the farmers’ protest. Khattar reached the site but his chopper could not land as the protesting farmers far outnumbered the BJP gathering and security personnel.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-421
12-01-2021||India||Farmers' protest: Republic Day tractor parade ||When tanks move down Rajpath on January 26, the farmers protesting at Delhi’s borders will be attempting their own Republic Day “march-past” with their tractors to try and enter the national capital, a farmer leader said on Monday. “There will be tanks on Rajpath on Republic Day. There will also be tractors at Delhi’s borders, trying to enter the national capital,” Rakesh Tikait, leader of the Bharatiya Kisan Union (Tikait), told reporters at the Delhi-Saharanpur border in Baghpat district. “While army, navy and air force personnel march down Rajpath, we will be parading on the highways leading to Delhi.” Reminded that this could set up a confrontation with the police who have barricaded Delhi’s borders, Tikait said: “We shall be carrying the national flag and singing the national anthem. Let’s see how the police treat a group of patriotic, national-anthem-chanting farmers,” he said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-421
12-01-2021||India||Sanitation worry at farmers protests ||Choked toilets, heaps of garbage, stagnant water and bitter cold are posing a tough challenge to the health of the farmers protesting near Delhi’s borders, a report says. A survey of five protest sites has found the administration woefully absent, with makeshift facilities stretched beyond their capacity leaving the farmers prey to diseases like cholera and dysentery amid the Covid-19 pandemic. Some “57.5 per cent, almost three in every five respondents, have to rely on open sites for defecation. In Singhu, where the highest number of protesters have gathered, open defecation is also high due to unmet needs of sanitation facilities — seven in every ten respondents,” says the report, released on Monday by health rights group Jan Swasthya Abhiyan. “Only one in ten (among the) respondents (is) able to use mobile toilets arranged by various local and state governments.... Half of them observed that water was not available, 48 per cent said that there is always a long queue in those toilets and 47 per cent said they are located in far-off places, creating difficulties in accessing those. Their responses clearly point out that there is scarcity of these toilets and the available ones are not being maintained properly.” The report, “Findings from rapid assessment of basic amenities at protest sites”, adds: “Around 40 per cent respondents observed that there is water stagnation around the protest sites. It was most severe at Ghazipur where more than nine out of every ten found water stagnation; the situation was also poor in Singhu — as 62.7 per cent respondents reported stagnation.... “Lack of government effort in disposing of solid waste is clearly visible. When asked if respondents found solid waste getting accumulated, only 23.6 per cent said it is getting disposed of regularly. In Shahjahanpur, the situation seems to be better as 56.5 per cent respondents said they have found waste getting disposed of regularly. In Singhu and Tikri, the two biggest protest sites, littering is a common sight, so are heaps of accumulated waste.” The report covered 201 respondents from the protest sites at Singhu and Tikri on the Delhi-Haryana border, Ghazipur on the Delhi-Uttar Pradesh border, Shahjahanpur on the Haryana-Rajasthan border and Palwal in Haryana. The respondents were from 40 districts in five states and the Union territory of Delhi. Of them, 56 per cent were from Punjab, 30 per cent from Haryana and the rest from Rajasthan, Uttar Pradesh and Madhya Pradesh. Women (11 per cent of the respondents) said they rarely got sanitary napkins at the health camps, and there was no proper facility to dispose of them. The report says the multitude of police barricades is a hindrance to garbage removal. “Approximately, one in every four respondents (24 per cent) said they have faced the problem of mosquitoes in the protest sites,” it says. “The problem is more pronounced in Ghazipur and Palwal as 62.5 per cent of respondents there reported mosquito problem. A bigger menace, however, is the problem of flies which may spread infections through food.” Doctors at the JSA’s health camps at Singhu and Tikri said that most of the illnesses reported had to do with non-communicable diseases like diabetes and hypertension. The report is silent on Covid-19, although the JSA says it did not need to refer any of the 14,000-odd people who came to its health camps for Covid testing.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-421
12-01-2021||India||500 Kerala farmers on bus to Delhi ||A delegation of 500 farmers from Kerala left for Delhi on Monday by bus from here to join their counterparts who have been protesting against the contentious farm laws since November 26 last year at the borders of Delhi. The farmers belong to Kerala Karshaka Sangham, the state chapter of All India Kisan Sabha (AIKS), one of the organisations at the forefront of the protest. AIKS vice-president S. Ramachandra Pillai flagged off the bus, which is expected to reach Delhi on January 14. They would participate in the protest at Shahjahanpur. K.N. Balagopal, secretary of Kerala Karshaka Sangham, told PTI that the next batch would also leave soon. “We are not going just for expressing solidarity. We are going to participate in the agitation because the farm laws affect the state in a very serious manner. It affects the food security, price of our food grains will be affected by these laws,” Balagopal said. In Kerala, the farmers have been on an indefinite protest since December 12.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-421
12-01-2021||India||Centre told to decide on second round of UPSC exam||The Supreme Court on Monday granted the Centre time till January 22 to take a decision on the plea for conduct of a second round of civil services exams to those candidates who could not appear on October 4 due to Covid-19 related problems. “See that you take a decision before the last date for filling the forms are over…” Justice A.M. Khanwilkar, heading a three judge bench, told additional solicitor-general S.V. Raju during a brief hearing. The bench, also comprising Justices B.R. Gavai and Krishna Murari, adjourned the matter till January 22 to enable Raju to seek instructions from the Union Public Service Commission on the issue but declined his plea for hearing the matter in the first or second week of February. At the last hearing on December 18, solicitor-general Tushar Mehta, who had appeared in the matter, told the court that the UPSC was in the process of examining the plea and the government was viewing it in a positive manner.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-421
12-01-2021||India||BJP veiled threat to split RJD after January 15||A senior BJP leader’s veiled threat to split the Rashtriya Janata Dal has triggered a backlash amid speculation that tensions with ally Janata Dal United may be encouraging the BJP to wield its famed defection-inducing skills as an insurance policy. Bhupender Yadav, BJP national general secretary in charge of Bihar, told his party’s district working committee in Patna on Sunday evening that the RJD could split after the kharmas, the one-month “inauspicious” period that ends with Makar Sankranti on January 15. “Let (RJD leader) Tejashwi Prasad Yadav save his party if he can. Because of kharmas, we have not reacted to the RJD’s comments. But Makar Sankranti is coming. The party is bound to split,” Bhupender, a Rajya Sabha member who also has charge of Gujarat, said. “There’s clear frustration in the RJD over dynastic politics and nepotism in the party. Tejashwi should focus on saving his own party.” Nitish Kumar’s government has a narrow majority in the 243-member Assembly, its 125 seats just 3 clear of the majority mark of 122. The RJD is the largest party with 75 seats, while the BJP has 74 and the JDU 43. Two smaller ruling allies have four seats each. Observers said the BJP’s talk of splitting the Opposition was hardly surprising, especially since it would like to secure its position in case Nitish decided to go his separate way. The RJD dismissed Bhupender’s threat. “We too challenge the BJP to save the government if it can,” spokesperson Mritunjay Tiwary said on Monday. “If it becomes more restless, we shall enter the scene and destroy it in the state during the kharmas — we won’t wait for Makar Sankranti.” The JDU ostensibly backed Bhupender’s remarks, but with a comment that appeared a dig at the ally over the Arunachal defections. To a reporter’s question, JDU MP Rajiv Ranjan Singh aka Lalan Singh said: “Bhupenderji made no tall claims. If he makes up his mind, he can even get the RJD to merge with the BJP. It won’t be a big deal for him.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-421
12-01-2021||India||Avian influenza alert to states ||The Centre on Monday asked all states to intensify surveillance in poultry farms, bird markets, zoos and lakes amid concerns that avian influenza has killed birds in 10 states and caused poultry sector sales to shrink in parts of India. Tests by animal disease specialists have revealed avian influenza in Delhi, Gujarat, Haryana, Himachal Pradesh, Kerala, Madhya Pradesh, Maharashtra, Rajasthan, Uttarakhand, and Uttar Pradesh, the Union ministry for fisheries, animal husbandry and dairy said. The avian influenza virus has turned up among ducks in Kerala and egg-layer poultry birds in Haryana, and in wild birds in other states. In the other states, the infection has killed crows and migratory birds. The affected districts, include Alappuzha and Kottayam in Kerala, Panchkula in Haryana, Surat and Valsad in Gujarat, Kangra in Himachal Pradesh, Tonk, Karauli, Bhilwara, and Sirohi in Rajasthan, and Kotdwar and Dehradun in Uttarakhand, the ministry said. In Delhi, crows and ducks have died. Avian influenza viruses occur naturally among wild birds worldwide and sometimes slip into domestic poultry birds. While these viruses do not normally infect humans, sporadic human infections with avian influenza viruses have occurred in the past. The outbreaks in domesticated birds have prompted culling of birds in Haryana and Kerala. “We estimate that around 166,000 layer birds have been culled in Haryana,” Ramesh Chander Khatri, the president of the Poultry Federation of India told The Telegraph. Khatri said fears about avian influenza have already hit sales in the poultry sector which the Federation estimates has a turnover of Rs 100,000 crore and provides earnings to an estimated 100 million to 150 million people across the country. Infectious disease experts have long asserted that avian influenza viruses do not spread through well-cooked chicken and eggs. “Yet, some states have talked about a ban on transport of even processed poultry – this is completely illogical,” Khatri said. The animal husbandry ministry said it has asked states to build awareness among the public to curb the spread of any misinformation about avian influenza. The husbandry department has also written to states urging close vigilance of the disease and steps to minimise the risk of the infection jumping from birds into humans. Prime Minister Narendra Modi, during an online conference on Monday with chief ministers to discuss the planned Covid-19 vaccination campaign, also referred to the avian influenza outbreak and urged the affected states to maintain “constant vigil.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-421
12-01-2021||India|| ‘Father of fibre optics’ dead ||When Narinder S. Kapany was in high school in the 1940s in Dehradun, his science teacher told him that light travels only in straight lines. By then he had already spent years playing around with a box camera, and he knew that light could at least be turned in different directions, through lenses and prisms. Something about the teacher’s attitude, he later said, made him want to go further, to prove him wrong by figuring out how to actually bend light. By the time he entered graduate school at Imperial College London in 1952, he realised he wasn’t alone. For decades researchers across Europe had been studying ways to transmit light through flexible glass fibres. He persuaded one of those scientists, Harold Hopkins, to hire him as a research assistant, and the two clicked. Professor Hopkins, a formidable theoretician, provided the ideas; Kapany, more technically minded, figured out the practical side. In 1954 the pair announced a breakthrough in the journal Nature, demonstrating how to bundle thousands of impossibly thin glass fibres together and then connect them end to end. Their paper, along with a separate article by another author in the same issue, marked the birth of fibre optics, the now-ubiquitous communications technology that carries phone calls, television shows and billions of cat memes around the world every day. In later years, journalists took to calling Kapany the “father of fibre optics,” and several even claimed that he had been robbed of the 2009 Nobel Prize in Physics, which instead went to Charles Kao for his own groundbreaking work in fibre optics. That claim re-emerged after Kapany died on December 3 in Redwood City, California, at 94. Whether Kapany’s scientific contributions stand alongside Kao’s is debatable, but his work as an intellectual evangelist for the burgeoning field of fibre optics is undeniable. “He was a pioneer,” the science journalist Jeff Hecht said in an interview, an “enthusiastic promoter” of a technology that long seemed more like science fiction than fact. According to Hecht’s 1999 history of fibre optics, City of Light, between 1955, when Kapany received his doctorate, and 1965, he was the lead author or co-author of 56 scientific papers, an astounding 30 per cent of all research published in the field during that decade. He wrote the first book on fibre optics and, in a 1960 cover article he wrote for Scientific American, even coined the term itself. Narinder Singh Kapany was born on October 31, 1926, in Moga, a town in Punjab, and raised in Dehradun. His father, Sundar Singh Kapany, worked in the coal industry; his mother, Kundan Kaur Kapany, was a homemaker. After graduating from Agra University, he worked for a government munitions factory in Dehradun before moving to England. Kapany had originally moved to Britain for an internship at an optics firm in Scotland, to learn skills he could use in starting his own company back in India. But the opportunity to work with Professor Hopkins, a towering figure in the world of optics, was too tempting to resist. However, their relationship, though fruitful, proved unstable: Both of them were men with outsize personalities, and they fell out soon after publishing their seminal paper in Nature. In 1954, soon after the Nature article appeared, Kapany married Satinder Kaur, who was studying dance in London. The next year the two sailed to New York after he was offered a job at the University of Rochester and a consulting contract with Bausch & Lomb, the eye care company. Two years later, after the birth of their son, Raj, the Kapanys moved to Illinois, where Kapany took a job teaching at the Illinois Institute of Technology and where their daughter, Kiran, was born. But Kapany was growing restless in academia, and in 1960 he moved his family to California to start a new company, Optics Technology, to commercialise his research. He based it in Palo Alto, then just emerging as a tech hub, and received funding from Draper, Gaither & Anderson, one of the first venture-capital firms on the West Coast. Kapany took the company public in 1967. He left that same year and, in 1973, founded a new company, Kaptron, which made fibre optics equipment. He founded yet another company, K2 Optronics, in 1999. But Kapany never fully left academia: He taught at the University of California, Santa Cruz, from 1977 to 1983, and he later endowed chairs at several University of California schools in optics and in Sikh studies. Kapany was a practising Sikh and fiercely proud of his heritage. He amassed one of the world’s largest collections of Sikh art and sponsored rooms to feature it in museums. “My father became convinced that the world at large should know who the Sikhs are and the Sikh people themselves should not forget who they are as they emigrate to other lands far from their original roots,” his daughter said. But he was also aware of how exotic he seemed to some as an Indian in early post-war America. Whenever he demonstrated fibre optics to visitors, he called it his “Indian optical rope trick”. And he adopted an American accent, retaining just enough of his Indian and English tenor to make him stand out. “He used that turban like a lethal weapon,” his son said. “When you see a guy who looked like that and who spoke like JFK, you’re not going to forget him.” New York Times News Service||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-422
12-01-2021||India||BJP flag around Gandhi bust in Kerala||A BJP flag was found tied around the shoulder of a bust of Mahatma Gandhi on the Palakkad municipality compound in Kerala on Monday, the “insult” triggering protests by the Congress and the CPM. Congress and  CPM councillors had noticed the flag after elections to the municipal standing committee at the BJP-ruled civic body ended around 11.30am. A large number of Congress and CPM workers rushed to the spot. Workers of CPM youth wing DYFI marched in with portraits of Gandhi, chanted anti-BJP slogans and demanded action against those responsible. They garlanded the bust after police arrived and removed the BJP flag. The BJP denied any role and suggested a Congress conspiracy. Less than a month ago, the municipality had witnessed a similar controversy after the BJP retained it in the local body elections. BJP workers had then hung two massive banners from the roof of the municipality building, one emblazoned with “Jai Sri Ram” and the other carrying pictures of Prime Minister Narendra Modi and home minister Amit Shah. Following a complaint from the municipality secretary — a government official — the police had arrested a few BJP workers on the charge of disturbing amity. Former Palakkad MP and CPI member M.B. Rajesh described the flag incident as “another direct and brazenly defiant attack on the idea of India as propounded by Gandhiji”. “It’s not that they didn’t have any other place to tie their flag. This is their way of declaring their true intent for a theocratic state, sidelining Gandhiji’s secular ideals,” Rajesh told The Telegraph. “Winning just one municipality (in Kerala) has turned them so arrogant. Imagine if they win a few more....” District BJP president E. Krishnadas called it a “drama” staged by the Congress. “We have nothing to do with this. In fact, our people saw about 50 Congress workers rushing towards the statue around 11.30am with their party flags. My question is, why did they come to the municipality complex with their party flags?” Krishnadas said. “This is a well-scripted drama by the Congress to create a controversy and blame us for something we didn’t do.” He said no one had seen the BJP flag when the premises were cleaned earlier in the morning. Senior Congress leader Pandalam Sudhakaran said: “Everyone knows the BJP is against Mahatma Gandhi’s message of peace and secularism. It’s arrogance, not ignorance, that led them to insult the Father of the Nation.” He demanded the police arrest the “real anti-nationals” behind the “sacrilege”.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-422
12-01-2021||India||Chinese soldier held in Ladakh sent back||A Chinese soldier apprehended by the Indian Army in eastern Ladakh last Friday was handed back to China on Monday morning. The People’s Liberation Army soldier was handed back to China at Chushul-Moldo at 10.10am, the army said. He was taken into custody early on January 8 after he transgressed the Line of Actual Control (LAC), south of Pangong Tso in eastern Ladakh, where the armies of the two countries have been locked in a standoff since May. Sources said no espionage angle was found and the soldier had crossed over inadvertently. Chief of Defence Staff General Bipin Rawat on Monday arrived in Ladakh to assess and review ground requirements of the force deployed at forward locations in freezing temperatures. Sources said Rawat, during his two-day visit, will be briefed by 14 Corps Commander and other commanders on the ground. The standoff in Ladakh continues with no signs of a breakthrough after several rounds of talks. The Indian Army has also been maintaining a strong vigil in other sectors of the Line of Actual Control. The Indian Army has established habitat facilities for its nearly 50,000 additional troops deployed along the Line of Actual Control in the Ladakh sector where the temperature has now reached minus 40. Earlier this month, Rawat had visited forward air bases in Arunachal Pradesh and interacted with soldiers of the army, Indo-Tibetan Border Police, and Special Frontier Force deployed along the Line of Actual Control.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-422
12-01-2021||India||Pangong Lake opens to tourists after a year||The Ladakh administration has re-opened Pangong Lake, the region’s most prized picnic spot and one of the main theatres of the ongoing standoff between the Indian and Chinese armies, for tourists after nearly a year. “The majestic Pangong Lake has been reopened for tourists starting January 10. So, get inner line permit (ILP) at http://lahdclehpermit.in, and visit this spellbinding lake,” tweeted Ladakh Tourism, the official Twitter handle of the tourism department of Ladakh Union Territory on Sunday. The lake was shut for tourists last year because of the pandemic and border tensions, which broke out around the same time. China holds more than two-thirds of the 134km-long lake. The area in and around the lake saw India and China engaging in some of the worst confrontations in the whole of eastern region after reports that China has occupied the heights in Finger 4 area. Konchok Stanzin, the elected councilor of Chushul Constituency, which is also home to Pangong lake, said the restrictions on tourist arrivals were lifted on January 10 and tourists were free to visit the area. “The tourists are safe to visit the area. They can only go to the starting point of the lake which is far off from that place,” Stanzin told The Telegraph. The councillor, however, said there is no improvement in the situation across eastern Ladakh. “The situation is the same. It is no different (from what it was over months),” he said. China apparently had thrown their side of the lake open in September last year, when videos surfaced showing Chinese welcoming the international tourists. Stanzin had earlier claimed Chinese infrastructure including tents, bunkers and vehicles are clearly seen in Chushul and some other villages, suggesting they are in mood to leave. The Chushul councillor last week met Defence minister Rajnath Singh in Delhi, where he had complained about the lack of internet facility in areas close to Line of Actual Control, which was suspended in view of the hostilities. “In the absence of reliable Internet connecting these villages to the mainstream India, we feel neglected and digital India programme will fail in its primary aim. The Covid-19 has immensely disadvantaged our student’s community in terms of access to education. Many students and their families have shifted cities like Leh for want of internet to attend online classes,” a memorandum submitted by him to the minister reads. The decision to reopen Pangong came a day ahead of Indian army’s move to hand back a Chinese soldier, who was apprehended by the Indian side in the southern bank of Pangong Tso. The soldier had transgressed to this side. The soldier was returned to China at the Chushul-Moldo border point in eastern Ladakh at 10.10 am today. China yesterday had called for an immediate return of the soldier.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-422
12-01-2021||India||Centre nudges out education calendars for central institutions||The government has prevented central educational institutions, including the IITs, from printing calendars and diaries citing the need for austerity measures and instructed them to use those brought out by the Centre this year, triggering allegations of interference and peddling of propaganda. Calendars and diaries, particularly the former, are used by educational institutions to showcase their achievements, recognitions received and the infrastructure facilities of repute, and also convey through pictures and text the essence of the institute in a nutshell. The government on Friday released a digital calendar and diary carrying pictures and information on various government schemes and programmes. Sections of academics described the move as yet another instance of the Centre’s meddling in the functioning of autonomous institutions and also an attempt to propagate government schemes instead of allowing the educational outfits to display their own individuality. No institution has officially opposed the instructions of the education ministry and the University Grants Commission. Most institutions are planning to ask their faculty and other staff to follow the central government’s digital calendar, launched by information and broadcasting minister Prakash Javadekar. At least half a dozen administrative officials from IITs and central universities told The Telegraph that they were feeling handicapped by the lack of their own calendars and diaries. “We gift our calendars and diaries to visiting dignitaries who come to deliver talks or attend programmes. Now we have nothing of our own to gift,” the vice-chancellor of a central university said. “The calendars and diaries are used to showcase our achievements and strengths through pictures and descriptions. They are a short presentation on the institute,” the vice-chancellor added. The academics said the printing cost was just a fraction of the funds they receive from the government. They said the institutions incurred a cost of around Rs 1 lakh to print calendars and diaries, while each institution receives over Rs 100 crore a year for maintenance of facilities and paying salary and pension to faculty and other staff. The vice-chancellor highlighted the farcical situation through a story. “It goes like this. Some people were carrying the body of a man to the cremation ground. They found it heavy. They discussed among themselves and decided to remove the hair from the body to make it lighter. That is what the government is doing in the name of austerity,” he said. Although a handful of institutions have gone ahead and brought out their own digital calendars, the vice-chancellor said his institution had not “since a digital calendar does not have the same impact as a physical calendar”. The Centre had earlier in 2018 and 2019 directed five central universities, including Visva-Bharati in Santiniketan and Delhi University (DU), to close down their presses, saying printing was not a core activity of an educational institution. Delhi University Press, which was started in 1961 and was self-sufficient financially, stopped work in August 2019. It used to print the prospectus, annual reports, calendars, diaries, application forms and letterheads. Last year, the university got these materials published from outside. DU Executive Council member Rajesh Jha said closing down printing presses, giving directions on research themes, asking institutions to set up walls on martyrs and advising them to observe “Surgical Strike Day” were part of a series of government measures that interfered with the matters of autonomous institutions. The direction to stop printing calendars and diaries is the latest addition, he said. “Now that the government has stopped the institutions from printing calendars, many will follow the central government calendar. The government is not only interfering in university affairs but also using them for publicity of its schemes through its calendar. This is centralised propaganda,” Jha said. UGC secretary Rajnish Jain said the universities were free to prepare their own digital calendars. The government calendar, available for free in 11 languages, is part of an app that also has a digital diary. The calendar has the picture of a famous personality for each month and provides information on government schemes. The app also provides a timeline of various government programmes. The personalities highlighted for the months of February and March are Rabindranath Tagore and Swami Vivekananda, respectively. The theme for February is farmers’ welfare.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-422
