13-01-2021||India||Interfaith marriage: HC rules publication of notice optional||The mandatory publication of notice of interfaith marriages under the Special Marriage Act was made optional on Wednesday by the Allahabad High Court in a move that is likely to bring relief to such couples. Passing the order, the HC said it violated the Right To Privacy. “Making such publication mandatory would invade the fundamental rights of liberty and privacy,” the Lucknow bench of Allahabad High Court said. It would also affect the couple's freedom to choose marriage “without interference from state and non-state actors”, Justice Vivek Chaudhary said. He said it shall be optional for the parties to the intended marriage to make a request in writing to the marriage officer to display or not to display such a notice. “If the couple did not intend so, the marriage officer has to solemnise their marriage forthwith without publication of 30 days notice,” the court said. A section of the Special Marriage Act, 1954, requires an interfaith couple to give written notice of the marriage to the district marriage officer. The court was hearing a habeas corpus petition alleging that an adult girl is being detained against her wishes to marry her lover who belongs to a different religion. The judgement comes against the backdrop of a recent controversial law enacted by the Uttar Pradesh government which prohibits forcible conversion for the sake of marriage. The Uttar Pradesh Prohibition of Unlawful Conversion of Religion Ordinance, 2020, prohibits conversion of religion by marriage to be unlawful.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-417
13-01-2021||India||Centre approves purchase of 83 Tejas jets worth Rs 48,000 crore||In a major move, the Centre on Wednesday approved the purchase of 83 indigenously-developed light combat aircraft Tejas for the Indian Air Force (IAF) at a cost of Rs 48,000 crore. The decision was taken at a meeting of the Cabinet Committee on Security (CCS) chaired by Prime Minister Narendra Modi, Defence Minister Rajnath Singh said. Singh, in a tweet, said that the deal would be a “game-changer” in the field of self-reliant defence manufacturing in India. “The CCS chaired by PM Sh. @narendramodi today approved the largest indigenous defence procurement deal worth about 48000 crores to strengthen IAF’s fleet of homegrown fighter jet ‘LCA-Tejas’,” he tweeted. The Tejas fleet is going to be the ‘backbone’ of the fighter jet team of the IAF in the coming years. Around three years back, the IAF had issued an initial tender for procurement of 83 Tejas aircraft, a four-and-half generation combat jet. “LCA-Tejas incorporates a large number of new technologies, many of which were never attempted in India. The indigenous content of LCA-Tejas is 50 percent in Mk1A variant which will be enhanced to 60 percent,” the defence minister said. The defence minister said that aircraft maker Hindustan Aeronautics Ltd (HAL) has already set up second-line manufacturing facilities at its Nasik and Bengaluru divisions. “Equipped with the augmented infrastructure the HAL will steer LCA-Mk1A production for timely deliveries to the IAF,” Singh said. He said the Tejas programme would act as a catalyst for transforming the Indian aerospace manufacturing ecosystem into a vibrant, self-sustaining one. “I thank the Prime Minister Shri @narendramodi for this historic decision taken by the CCS today,” the defence minister said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-417
13-01-2021||India||Karnataka CM expands cabinet, seven new ministers sworn in||Karnataka Chief Minister B S Yediyurappa on Wednesday expanded his 17-month old cabinet, inducting seven ministers and indicated that excise minister H Nagesh would be dropped. Governor Vajubhai Vala administered the oath of office and secrecy to the Ministers at a ceremony at the Raj Bhavan. The new Ministers are MLAs Umesh Katti (Hukkeri), S Angara (Sullia), Murugesh Nirani (Bilgi) and Arvind Limbavali (Mahadevapura), and MLCs R Shankar, M T B Nagaraj and C P Yogeshwar. Chief Minister B S Yediyurappa, his cabinet colleagues, BJP leaders and office bearers, including General Secretary in-charge of Karnataka Arun Singh, state unit President Nalin Kumar Kateel, senior state government officials,family members and supporters of the new Ministers,among others,were present. This is the third expansion of the cabinet since Yediyurappa assumed charge in July 2019 after the collapse of the Congress-JDS government in the wake of revolt by 17 MLAs of the coalition partners. It's a mix of the old guard and new entrants from Congress and JDS who made it into the cabinet. Keeping up the promise, Congress-JD(S) rebels-turned BJP MLCs R Shankar and M T B Nagaraj, who helped the saffron party come to power, were inducted by Yediyurappa. Both of them had served as Ministers in the coalition government. Another MLC Yogeshwar, who is said to have played a key role by managing Congress-JD(S) rebel MLAs during the political turmoil in the state in 2019, was also inducted into the Ministry. He too was a Minister in the previous BJP government. Among the BJP old guard who made it to the cabinet were Katti, Angara, Nirani and Limbavali. While Katti (eight-time MLA), Nirani and Limbavali (state BJP VicePresident) were Ministers in the previous BJP government, for Angara (six times MLA), this will be his first stint as the Minister. While announcing the induction of seven new ministers earlier in the day, Yediyurappa indicated that Excise Minister H Nagesh will be dropped from the Ministry, thereby keeping one berth vacant in the state cabinet, which can have a maximum strength of 34 members.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-417
13-01-2021||India||North Delhi Municipal Corporation imposes ban on sale, storage of chicken meat||The North Delhi Municipal Corporation on Wednesday announced that it has banned the sale and storage of  poultry or processed chicken meat by shops and restaurants with immediate effect, in view of the bird flu situation in the national capital. According to an official order issued by the veterinary services department of the NDMC, owners of restaurants and hotels will face action if egg-based dishes or poultry meat and other products are served to customers. “The order has been issued in public interest and should be diligently complied with,” it said. On Monday, Delhi confirmed cases of bird flu after testing of samples of crows and ducks, prompting the state government to impose a ban on sale of processed and packaged chicken brought from outside the city. The authorities have also closed the Ghazipur poultry market in this regard. “All meat and poultry shops and meat processing units in areas under the NDMC, are prohibited to sell, store poultry or processed or packaged chicken meat with immediate effect, till further orders,” the order by the North Corporation said. Several ducks at Sanjay Lake and a large number of crows across various city parks have been found dead in the last one week. Reports of over 50 bird deaths were received on a helpline of the Delhi government’s animal husbandry unit and 18 samples from different parts of the city were sent for avian flu testing on Tuesday, officials had said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-417
13-01-2021||India||Delhi schools to open from January 18 for classes 10, 12||The Delhi government on Wednesday allowed all schools in the national capital to reopen for Classes 10 and 12 from January 18 in view of board exams, according to officials of the Directorate of Education. Students will attend schools only with the consent of parents and physical attendance is not compulsory, while schools will follow all Covid-19 guidelines, they said. "In order to conduct activities pertaining to pre-board preparations and practical work, the head of government, aided and unaided recognised schools may call students of Classes 10 and 12 only to school with effect from January 18, 2021," a senior official at the Directorate of Education (DoE) said. However, a child should be called to school only with the consent of parents and following standard operating procedures, he said. Records of children coming to school will be maintained and the same should not be used for attendance purposes as sending a child to school is completely optional for parents, the official said. Schools in Delhi have been shut since March last year to prevent the spread of the coronavirus. While several states had partially reopened schools after October, this will be the first time in 10 months that students in the national capital will return to their campuses. Students have been attending classes online.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-417
13-01-2021||India||Copies of farm laws burnt to celebrate Lohri in Punjab||Farmers in Punjab on Wednesday burnt copies of the Centre's three new farm laws at several places on the festival of Lohri as a mark of protest against the legislation. The harvest festival of Lohri is celebrated in Punjab, Haryana and other parts of north India. Bonfires are an important part of the festivities. Protesting farmers owing allegiance to different farm bodies held a protest at many places in the state and burnt copies of new agriculture laws. Farmers also shouted slogans against the BJP-led Centre and slammed the government for not acceding to their demands. They demanded that the new farm laws should be repealed. Farmers including women under the banner of Kisan Mazdoor Sangharsh Committee held a protest at Pandherkalan village in Amritsar. "We burnt the copies of the farm laws as a mark of protest against these legislations," said committee's general secretary Sarwan Singh Pandher in Amritsar. Similar protests are also being held at other places in Amritsar. "Until the Centre accepts all the demands of farmers, our agitation will continue," said Pandher. "We will not accept these farm laws as they are not in the interest of the farming community and the government should repeal these legislations," said a protester. Farmers also burnt copies of the new farm laws at many places including Hoshiarpur, Sangrur and Kapurthala in the state. Farmers, who have been camping at the Delhi borders, are demanding a repeal of the farm laws and a legal guarantee to the minimum support price for crops. The Supreme Court on Tuesday had stayed the implementation of controversial new farm laws till further orders and decided to set up a 4-member committee to resolve the impasse over them between the Centre and farmers' unions protesting at Delhi borders.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-417
13-01-2021||India||Covaxin shipped to eleven Indian cities, says Bharat Biotech||Bharat Biotech said on Wednesday that it has successfully air-shipped its COVID-19 vaccine Covaxin to 11 cities in India in the early hours and that it has donated 16.5 lakh doses to the centre. The company also expressed its deepest gratitude to the nation, all clinical trial volunteers and its partners for making this a successful and milestone public-private partnership for the development of India's first COVID19- vaccine, a press release said. After having received the government purchase order for 55 lakh doses, Bharat Biotech shipped the first batch of vaccines (each vial containing 20 doses) to Gannavaram (Vijayawada), Guwahati, Patna, Delhi, Kurukshetra, Bangalore, Pune, Bhubaneswar, Jaipur, Chennai and Lucknow. Covaxin is a highly purified and inactivated two-dose SARS-CoV-2 vaccine, manufactured in a Vero cell manufacturing platform with an excellent safety track record of more than 300 million doses, the release said. It is India's totally indigenous COVID-19 vaccine, developed in collaboration with the Indian Council of Medical Research and National Institute of Virology. The inactivated vaccine is developed and manufactured in Bharat Biotech's BSL-3 (Bio-Safety Level 3) biocontainment facility, one of its kind in the world.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-417
13-01-2021||India||Anushka and Virat appeal to paparazzi to not click their daughter's picture||Actor-producer Anushka Sharma and her cricketer-husband Virat Kohli on Wednesday urged paparazzi to not click photos of their newborn daughter. Kohli had announced the arrival of their first child on January 11, saying that both the baby and Sharma were healthy. The couple has now written a note to the paparazzi fraternity in Mumbai, urging them to respect their daughter's privacy. Expressing their gratitude, Sharma and Kohli said they are thankful for all the love being showered on them. "As parents, we have a simple request to make to you. We want to protect the privacy of our child and we need your help and support," the couple said in the statement. They further assured paparazzi they will share the "content" at the right time. "While, we will always ensure that you get all the content you need featuring us, we would request you to kindly not take or carry any content that has our child. We know that you will understand where we are coming from and we thank you for the same," they said. Sharma and Kohli, both 32, recently celebrated their third wedding anniversary. The couple first met on the sets of a commercial and dated for four years before getting married in a private ceremony in Italy on December 11, 2017. Sharma announced her pregnancy in August last year.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-417
13-01-2021||India||Badaun Gangrape: Priest, other accused remanded to police custody||A temple priest and his accomplices accused of raping and killing a 50-year-old woman here have been remanded to one-day police custody by a local court. Circle officer of Bilsi, Anirudh Singh, said on Wednesday that, "The three accused persons in the Ughaiti incident have already been sent to jail. But there are some questions which need to be answered. For this, it is necessary to take the three accused on remand". A request through video conferencing was made to the court of the chief judicial magistrate for police remand on Tuesday and the request was granted. The family members of the woman had accused the temple priest and his accomplices of raping and killing the woman, an anganwadi worker. A case was registered against the accused and two of them identified as Vedram and Jaspal were arrested on January 5. Later the priest was also arrested. The incident triggered an opposition outcry and a comparison with the 2012 Nirbhaya case in Delhi after the post-mortem report confirmed rape, broken rib cage, a fractured leg and other injuries. Budaun CMO, Dr Yashpal Singh, had said that the woman died of trauma and excessive bleeding.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-418
13-01-2021||India||India logs 15,968 fresh Covid cases, 202 casualties in a day||India's Covid-19 caseload rose to 1,04,95,147 with 15,968 infections being reported in a day, while the recoveries surged to 1,01,29,111 pushing the national recovery rate to 96.51 per cent, according to the Union Health Ministry data updated on Wednesday. The death toll increased to 1,51,529 with 202 daily new fatalities, the data updated at 8 am showed. The number of people who have recuperated from the disease surged to 1,01,29,111 pushing the national Covid-19 recovery rate to 96.51 per cent, while the Covid-19 case fatality rate stands at 1.44 per cent. The Covid-19 active caseload remained below 3 lakh. There are 2,14,507 active cases of coronavirus infections in the country which comprises 2.04 per cent of the total caseload, the data stated. India's COVID-19 tally had crossed the 20-lakh mark on August 7, 30 lakh on August 23, 40 lakh on September 5 and 50 lakh on September 16.It went past 60 lakh on September 28, 70 lakh on October 11, crossed 80 lakh on October 29, 90 lakh on November 20 and surpassed the one-crore mark on December 19. According to the ICMR, 18,34,89,114 samples have been tested up to January 12 with 8,36,227 samples being tested on Tuesday. The 202 new fatalities include 50 from Maharashtra, 25 from Kerala, 18 from West Bengal,and 16 from Delhi. A total of 1,51,529 deaths have been reported so far in the country including 50,151 from Maharashtra followed by 12,236 from Tamil Nadu, 12,149 from Karnataka, 10,707 from Delhi, 9,975 from West Bengal, 8,514 from Uttar Pradesh, 7,133 from Andhra Pradesh and 5,456 from Punjab. The health ministry stressed that more than 70 per cent of the deaths occurred due to comorbidities. "Our figures are being reconciled with the Indian Council of Medical Research," the ministry said on its website, adding that state-wise distribution of figures is subject to further verification and reconciliation.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-418
13-01-2021||India||Delhi in the grasp of cold wave, mercury dips to 3.2 degree Celsius||A cold wave gripped Delhi on Wednesday as frosty winds from the snow-clad western Himalayas continued to sweep the plains and brought the minimum temperature down to 3.2 degrees Celsius, the IMD said. "Dense" fog blanketed parts of the city, lowering visibility to 50 metres and affecting traffic movement. Cold wave conditions prevailed at the Safdarjung Observatory, which provides representative data for the city. It recorded a minimum of 3.2 degrees Celsius, four notches below the normal, said Kuldeep Srivastava, the regional forecasting centre head of the India Meteorological Department (IMD). In the plains, the IMD declares a cold wave if the minimum temperature dips to 4 degrees Celsius. A severe cold wave is when the minimum is 2 degrees Celsius or less. Cold and dry northerly/northwesterly winds from the western Himalayas have been barrelling through the plains, bringing down the minimum temperature in north India, Srivastava said. Similar conditions will prevail in the city over the next two days, he said. "Dense" fog lowered visibility to 50 metres at Palam and 200 metres at Safdarjung, the IMD said. According to the IMD, a "very dense" fog is when the visibility is between 0 and 50 metres. In case of a "dense" fog, the visibility is between 51 and 200 metres, "moderate" 201 and 500 metres, and "shallow" 501 and 1,000 metres. Delhi had been registering above-normal minimum temperatures till Monday, as a cloud cover persisted over the city under the influence of successive Western Disturbances (WDs). However, the temperature started dropping with the commencement of cold northwesterly winds after the withdrawal of the latest WD. The city's minimum had settled at 4.8 degrees Celsius on Tuesday, 7 degrees Celsius on Monday, 7.8 degrees Celsius on Sunday, 10.8 degrees Celsius on Saturday, 9.6 degrees Celsius on Friday and 14.4 degrees Celsius on Thursday, the highest in January in four years, according to the IMD.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-418
13-01-2021||India||India prepared to hold its ground in eastern Ladakh: General M.M. Naravane||Army chief General M.M. Naravane on Tuesday said India was prepared to hold its ground in eastern Ladakh “as long as it takes” to achieve the national objectives and his force was alert and ready for any eventuality, but at the same time expressed hope for an amicable solution to the border standoff through the ongoing military talks with China. The army chief also said both Pakistan and China posed a “potent threat” to national security and their collusive approach towards India could not be wished away. Addressing the annual media conference ahead of Army Day on January 15, General Naravane said: “We are prepared to hold our ground as long as it takes to achieve our national goals and objectives. I am hopeful for a positive situation, but we are ready to meet any eventuality. Our operational preparedness is of high order.” He said he was hopeful that India and China would reach an agreement through dialogue “for disengagement and de-escalation of forces from friction points based on the principle of mutual and equal security”. “We are confident of finding a solution to the issue on the basis of mutual and equal security,” the general said, while asserting that the Indian Army would maintain its current positions. Naravane said there had been no reduction of troops from either side along the Line of Actual Control in eastern Ladakh. Asked about the current situation along the LAC, the army chief said: “The situation is the same as was prevailing last year. There is no change in the status quo.” Naravane said Indian soldiers were maintaining a high level of alertness all along the LAC and not just in Ladakh. The army has established habitat facilities for its nearly 50,000 additional troops deployed along the LAC in the Ladakh sector where the temperature has now reached -40 degrees Celsius. The border standoff started between the two armies on May 5 last year before it snowballed into a violent face-off on June 15 in the Galwan Valley that killed 20 Indian soldiers and caused an unspecified number of Chinese casualties. Sources in the defence ministry said Beijing continued to resist New Delhi’s demand for disengagement and de-escalation of troops from multiple friction points along the LAC. General Naravane said the force was awaiting the final dates for the ninth rounds of military talks between India and China to resolve the standoff. “We will ensure that we reach a solution through dialogue which is acceptable and not detrimental to our interest.” He said considering the security challenges at the LAC, a need was felt about rebalancing of troops along the northern borders. “As events in Ladakh show, there is need of carrying out re-balancing of the northern border. That is what we have put in place.” Responding to a question on how long it will take for the standoff to be resolved, Naravane said: “We are prepared to hold our ground for as long as it is needed to achieve our national goals.” On Pakistan, General Naravane said it continued to embrace terrorism as a State policy. “We have zero tolerance for terror and we reserve the right to respond at the place and time of our choosing and with precision,” he said. He said there was increased cooperation between China and Pakistan in both military and non-military sectors. “Pakistan and China form a potent threat that cannot be wished away.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-418
13-01-2021||India||Supreme Court stays farm laws, forms committee||The Supreme Court on Tuesday appointed a committee on the three farm laws and stayed their implementation as it had indicated a day earlier. All four members of the committee have in the past come out in public in support of the new laws, leaving the protesting farmers feeling vindicated in their decision not to participate in the panel’s proceedings. Two of the four members of the committee, set up to broker peace between the government and the tens of thousands of farmers on dharna outside Delhi against the laws for over 40 days, are academics and two are farm leaders. Ashok Gulati, the Infosys chair professor for agriculture at the Indian Council for Research on International Economic Relations, had likened the laws to a “a 1991 moment for agriculture’’, referring to the opening up of the economy by the P.V. Narasimha Rao government under then finance minister Manmohan Singh’s watch. Parmod Kumar Joshi, former South Asia director of the Washington-based International Food Policy Research Institute, wrote in an article in Financial Express last weekend: “Scrapping the three farm laws will be disastrous for the entire agriculture sector, more so for the farmers.” Anil Ghanwat, president of the Shetkari Sanghatana, has said the laws should not be repealed while stating on record that the government did not discuss the farm laws in detail with farmers before introducing them. He has called for amendments to factor in farmers’ concerns. Bhupinder Singh Mann, chairman of the All-India Kisan Coordination Committee, a platform supporting the laws, had written to agriculture minister Narendra Singh Tomar demanding that the laws not be repealed. He too suggested amendments that would plug the loopholes in the laws and has supported the amendments proposed by the government. The Samyukta Kisan Morcha, the banner under which more than 40 farmer unions and collectives from across the country are protesting against the laws, has made it clear that they will accept nothing short of a repeal. After repealing the “black laws” that, they say, only serve corporate interests and will be a “death warrant” for farmers, the government should hold a dialogue with farmers and bring in new laws to reform agriculture. Balbir Singh Rajewal, who heads a BKU faction in Punjab, said on Tuesday all the four members are “pro-government” and have supported the farm laws. “We cannot accept a committee loaded with people who have written articles in the media in support of the laws. In any case, we have in principle refused to accept a committee to resolve the issue. We see it as an effort to divert attention from the real issue and reduce pressure on the government,” he said. On Monday night, the Morcha had announced that it would not participate in the proceedings of any such committee. “This was a precautionary measure we took in view of yesterday’s hearings where there was talk of a committee. We knew that the government was trying to thrust a committee on us,” Darshan Pal of the Krantikari Kisan Union said on Tuesday. The Morcha has over the past month repeatedly rejected the government’s proposal to set up a committee to resolve the differences, labelling it a strategy to stall and tire out the farmers protesting on the road in the cold. CPM general secretary Sitaram Yechury tweeted on Tuesday: “Can anyone expect the protesting farmers demanding repeal of Agri Laws to talk to such a committee? Why should they? Farmers are left with no other option than to boycott this committee?” Congress media in-charge Randeep Singh Surjewala tweeted links to articles and statements by the four committee members in support of the laws and wrote: “For any ‘committee’ to be independent, its credibility must be beyond any doubt. How can anyone trust a ‘committee’ whose members have already spoken so loudly in favour of Modi govt’s draconian farm laws?” Congress leader Jairam Ramesh tweeted: “When you want a consensus you get a group with different viewpoints together. The G-4 on farm laws is a quartet of evangelists. Where is the other viewpoint? In sports, there is a name for this.…”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-418
13-01-2021||India||SC seeks Centre’s affidavit on Khalistani infiltration claim||The Centre told the Supreme Court on Tuesday that “Khalistanis have infiltrated the protests” by farmers, prompting the Chief Justice of India to seek an affidavit by Wednesday to support the claim. Attorney-general K.K. Venugopal, representing the Centre, told a bench headed by Chief Justice of India S.A. Bobde that a rally should not be permitted as it would mean allowing entry of over 1 lakh people into Delhi. He offered to place inputs from the Intelligence Bureau to justify apprehensions of a possible breach of law and order during the Republic Day celebrations. Senior advocate P.S. Narasimha, appearing for a farmer union supporting the new laws, submitted that a proposed tractor rally and such other protests can be “dangerous” as, according to him, certain groups like “Sikhs for Justice” were out to create trouble. The Chief Justice then turned towards the attorney-general for his views. “We have said that Khalistanis have infiltrated the protests. As far as Karnataka, Kerala, etc, are concerned, there is huge support for these (new farm) laws…. There is no question of a huge group of 1 lakh people entering the city on Republic Day. We can’t say where all they will go,” Venugopal said. The bench, which includes Justices A.S. Bopanna and V. Subramanian, prima facie felt that it was for the police to take necessary action to prevent any breach of law and order. But the bench asked the government to file its contention in an affidavit so that necessary orders could be passed on the plea on January 18 when the matter would be taken up. “It is within your police powers to control that and check if they are armed. We will not interfere with this. If there is an infiltration by a banned organisation and somebody is making an allegation here on record, you have to confirm it. You file an affidavit by tomorrow,” the Chief Justice said. Venugopal said he would file an affidavit with the IB records. During the arguments, the bench and senior advocate Harish Salve, who is appearing for the Haryana government and a Delhi-based petitioner, questioned the absence of senior advocates Dushyant Dave, Colin Gonzalves, H.S. Phoolka and Prashant Bhushan. The advocates, who are appearing for various farmers’ groups opposing the laws, were on Monday asked by the court to convince the protesters to return home. Advocate Manohar Lal Sharma alleged that some of the lawyers appearing for a couple of pro-law groups were being sponsored by the ruling BJP. Sharma: “I want to present some real facts. Some farmers spoke with me and said ‘we don’t want to go to any committee’. The lawyers who purportedly appear for them in the court are working at the instance of the BJP. Farmers are scared their land will be snatched.” Chief Justice: “We will protect farmers. While we are hearing this matter, we can pass an interim order that no land of farmers will be sold to anyone under the farm laws till we finally decide.” Sharma: “Got a few calls from farmers in the morning. They aren’t willing to appear in the Supreme Court. They only want withdrawal of laws. They are peacefully protesting, claiming the Prime Minister didn’t meet them. They fear land will be sold and no one will protect them. Contract farming is the jugglery of a mastermind. If a corporate house asks farmers to pay damages for crops, they will have to sell land.” Chief Justice: “We can’t direct the Prime Minister to meet them. We will pass orders that no farmers’ land will have to be sold.” P. Wilson, appearing for Thiruchi Siva, MP: “The laws were passed without discussions in the House.” Chief Justice: “Yesterday the AG submitted that the south is supporting the laws.” Wilson: “That is not correct…. Today Vijayawada is burning with protests.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-418
13-01-2021||India||Farmers: no going back on the protests leading up to R-Day||The umbrella outfit of protesting farmers on Tuesday welcomed the Supreme Court’s decision to suspend the implementation of the three farm laws but pointed out that this was not the solution that the unions had been asking for, as a stay means the legislation can be reinstated at any time. The Samyukta Kisan Morcha made the comments based on media reports of the Supreme Court’s order and will take a considered decision after a meeting on Wednesday. The farmers said there would be no going back on the protests leading up to Republic Day when they plan to take out a parade on tractors in Delhi after the annual spectacle. The Morcha accused the government of misguiding the Supreme Court in general and even in the constitution of a four-member committee to broker peace, adding that the administration was also hiding facts from the court. As for the Kisan Parade, Balbir Singh Rajewal, who heads a faction of the Bharatiya Kisan Union in Punjab, said it would be peaceful. Addressing a media conference along with some other Punjab farmer unions, Rajewal sent out a message to all cultivators planning to join the parade from different parts of the country that no violence would be tolerated. “Our parade will be peaceful like our movement has been for the past six months. We have no plans to hoist the national flag at Red Fort or conquer Delhi as is being alleged. We have always been peaceful and we will not tolerate any violence.” Ever since the Morcha announced the farmers’ tractor parade for Republic Day, when they plan to enter Delhi if the laws are not repealed by then, the union leaders have repeatedly maintained that they will not disrupt the main parade. Their parade is to be held after the main parade is over, union leaders have made it clear, pointing out that farmers have children, siblings and spouses in the military and they understand the sanctity of the day. “Our parade is about people claiming the republic,” has been their refrain. On the Supreme Court notice to Delhi police on the Narendra Modi government’s plea to stop the farmers’ tractor rally on January 26, the Morcha sees it as an effort to prepare the ground for repression. Some of the union leaders see the government’s reference in court to the presence of elderly people, children and women at the protest sites as an effort to have them removed so that police action is easier. The optics of police action against such vulnerable groups can have an adverse fallout for any government, more so when the farmers’ movement has drawn considerable attention overseas. Referring to this, Yogendra Yadav of the Jai Kisan Andolan pointed out that women constitute 70 per cent of those who work on farms across the country. “Don’t they have a right to participate in a protest for their rights?” he asked. Ravinder Kaur, an office-bearer of the same organisation, told The Telegraph that the elderly, children and women were at the protest voluntarily. “No one brought them here,” she said. “The elders are here because they don’t want to see the land they have tilled for years go to corporates. The children are wondering why should they study when these farm laws are going to turn them into labourers. And the women also work in the fields, so they have a stake in this,” Kaur said, adding that the BJP thinks “this is one of their rallies where they pay people to create a crowd”. As per the 2011 census, 98 million women in India have agricultural jobs, making them a stakeholder in the sector.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-418
13-01-2021||India||Beneficiaries cannot choose between two vaccines initially||India’s Covid-19 vaccination campaign starting on January 16 with the AstraZeneca-Oxford vaccine and the homegrown Bharat Biotech jab will not offer beneficiaries the option to choose between the two, the Union health ministry has signalled. But online discussions and free-wheeling exchanges in medical circles across the country, doctors say, appear to reflect expectations among many that they would receive the AstraZeneca-Oxford vaccine called Covishield in India instead of the homegrown Covaxin. The health ministry said on Tuesday that 11 million doses of Covishield and 5.5 million doses of Covaxin ordered by the Centre to start the campaign would be received by all states and Union Territories by January 14, but did not explain which vaccine would go where. Top health officials asserted that both vaccines are safe, both generate immune responses against the novel coronavirus, and both would be available at fractions of the prices India might have had to pay for other vaccines used in the US or Europe. “The vaccines are safe and immunogenic — this is established. There is absolutely no doubt about safety and immunogenicity,” said Rajesh Bhushan, the health secretary. “We expect states at the highest level will exercise continuous oversight and personal involvement on the entire process of rollout.” Bhushan, when asked at a media briefing whether beneficiaries would have the option to choose between the two, said: “In several countries, more than one vaccine is being used against Covid-19. In no country at this point do beneficiaries have this option.” The vaccination drive in its first stage will seek to immunise around 10 million healthcare workers and 20 million frontline public workers. The second stage is aimed at immunising around 270 million people above 50 years and those below 50 with chronic health disorders. Bhushan said the exercise could “last maybe beyond one year”. Vinod Paul, the chair of a national expert group that is guiding the country’s vaccine administration strategy and member of Niti Aayog, the government’s apex think tank, said the vaccines had “proven immunogenicity” and their side-effects were “negligible”. But sections of doctors who will be among the earliest to be offered the vaccines say they’re conscious about the difference between a vaccine’s immunogenicity — the body’s immune response to a vaccine — and its efficacy — or capacity to actually protect people from the infection. India’s drug regulatory authority approved Covishield on the basis of safety, immunogenicity and efficacy studies in other countries and Covaxin on the basis of safety and immunogenicity studies. Covaxin is still under evaluation for its efficacy and the earliest data is expected after March. Some doctors on Tuesday expressed surprise the government has already ordered Covaxin. “Many of us expect to receive Covishield — if we have no choice and Covaxin is sent, I think there’ll be resentment here,” said a senior doctor at a corporate hospital who requested not to be named. “Our concerns should not be misinterpreted — we have faith in Covaxin too,” the doctor said. “Covaxin is likely absolutely safe, but why hurry to introduce it without efficacy data? They could have waited for a few weeks for efficacy data to arrive. There are likely to be non-scientific reasons for this.” Sumit Ray, a senior critical care specialist at the Holy Family Hospital, New Delhi, said there had been “intense back-and-forth” online discussions in critical care circles about the pace of vaccine rollout and efficacy of the two vaccines. “We, of course, need vaccines, but the urgency is baffling,” he said. “Many doctors appear concerned about approvals given without adequate data.” A medical expert in Bengal said he had fielded similar questions about efficacy and choice of vaccines during Sunday evening’s webinars on Covid-19 organised by the government for medics across the state. “There has been no head-to-head comparison of efficacy of these two vaccines — we can’t say one is more or less efficacious than the other,” said Santanu Tripathi, a senior pharmacologist formerly at the Calcutta School of Tropical Medicine. He added: “This question has come up for discussion — what if some doctors express a desire for a specific vaccine? At the moment, there is just no provision to offer a choice,” Tripathi said. The Centre will pay Rs 200 per dose for 11 million doses of Covishield, manufactured in India by the Serum Institute of India, and Rs 206 per dose for 5.5 million doses of Covaxin. The prices of other vaccines used in the US and Europe range from Rs 734 to Rs 2,700, health officials said. The Covid-19 vaccines are currently available only through the government, but health officials have indicated that at some point in time, likely after the completion of the government campaign, private sales of vaccines would be allowed. The duration of the government campaign would depend on both supplies and the pace of the immunisation. The health ministry says there are 200,000 trained vaccinators, but officials did not respond to a query on how many vaccination sites would be active across the country on January 16.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-418
13-01-2021||India||Farmers' protest: why courts don’t matter any more||One thought that hadn’t flitted across the minds of any farmer at the bustling protest site at the Ghazipur border was that the Supreme Court was going to pass an important order on the farm laws on Tuesday. The leaders might have kept a watch but the ordinary farmers were oblivious to the legal proceedings. The irrelevance of judicial intervention is a striking feature of the battle between the Narendra Modi government and the farming community, a sense of dismay deepened by the court’s suggestion on Monday about putting the laws on hold as they are examined by a committee. The majority of the farmers said they were not interested in what the court said, arguing that the dangers posed by the new laws were not a subject of legal interpretation. While some bluntly pointed to the judges’ inability to upturn the current government’s decisions, others avoided a discussion as a decision had already been taken on Monday against engaging with any committee. There is unanimity among the farmers that there is no question of reversing the direction of the movement under pressure from the government or judicial fiat. Tarlochan Singh, an elderly farmer from Pilibhit in Uttar Pradesh, summed up the mood, saying: “It is not merely about a few legal infirmities in the laws. It is the philosophy of governance that will trigger a national crisis, a situation that will widen the conflict between the rich and the poor. If this direction is not changed, we may be heading for civil war in this country. We have to understand the nature of the threat first; it is not about legalese, it is about life.” As a few other farmers echoed the sentiment, Tarlochan said: “Everybody is going to be affected — the small businessmen, the agriculture workers, the consumers. We don’t need governments, courts and committees to tell us what our pain is. Aisa ehsaan kya jisme jaan khatre mein aa jaye (Why is the government doing such a favour that will endanger our lives?) None will move from here until the laws are repealed. The government can fire on us, unleash tanks or do bombarding from fighter planes. We die or defeat this government.” Asked what would happen if the leaders strike a deal with the government and decide to give up, he said: “It is not possible now. You must have a very low-grade moral fabric to strike a deal with the government on this issue. Our leaders aren’t like that.” Others endorsed Tarlochan, insisting that the movement had crossed the phase when compromises were possible. “It is a unique mass movement which has acquired a life of its own. It is controlled by the collective spirit now,” he said. Explaining why the Supreme Court or the committees it forms were irrelevant to the struggle, another farmer from Udhamsingh Nagar in Uttarakhand, Jagjit Singh, said: “We have experienced the ill-effects of the new laws. We had sold paddy last year at Rs 1,600 a quintal, which was lower than the MSP (minimum support price). This year, we sold paddy for Rs 1,200 despite input cost increasing heavily. Apart from high diesel prices, cost of labour per acre of land last year was Rs 2,500, which increased to Rs 4,200 this year.” He continued: “Earlier, rice millers came to mandis to deal with the collective bargaining power of the producers in presence of SDMs (sub-divisional magistrates). This year, after the laws came into force, we had to take our produce to the mills where they will say your stuff is not good. Keep wandering, from one mill to another. Finally, I sold paddy for Rs 1,200.” Palwinder Singh from Pilibhit had a similar experience and explained the farce of switching to other crops than the over-produced paddy. He said: “We used to sow unseasonal paddy (called Chinese dhan) after harvesting our crop of peas. The government did a campaign, asking us to shift to maize as paddy consumed lots of water. They distributed seeds and promised to buy the produce at MSP. We followed their instructions. The government purchased some and then said the quality is not good. We had to sell our stocks at Rs 800 instead of the MSP of Rs 1,850.” Palwinder added: “We know the worth of the government’s assurances. The Prime Minister says the corporate entities will pay higher rates than the MSP. We are fighting for the lowest benchmark — give us legal guarantee of MSP. Good for the corporates also. What is the problem in creating safeguards for the farmers? Don’t give us subsidies, no cash… just ensure MSP. Doesn’t the Prime Minister know how much is the dues of sugarcane farmers despite repeated assurances?” These farmers were cooking vegetables at a camp run by Gurdwara Langar Sahib of Nanded in Maharashtra. Jathedar Baba Mohan Singh, who was overhearing the conversation, gave his final verdict: “The Prime Minister and the Supreme Court judges should come here and see the truth. This is a people’s movement. Farmers ensure nobody goes hungry in India. That’s why every Indian, cutting across region and religion, is supporting us. We are here till this bekaar sarkar (useless government) withdraws these bekaar laws. Our langar has continued for 550 years and we are determined to serve the farmers here for as long as they continue the struggle.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-418
13-01-2021||India||Protesting farmers dismiss SC’s stay on the laws as a solution and retreat||Shortly after the Supreme Court stayed the farm laws and formed a review committee, a singer took the stage at the Singhu border, seeking to remind the rulers of Delhi of Punjab’s history of sacrifice. “Dilli-ye, O Dilli-ye, Punjab de sadke, tu itihas sadda bhulli baithi hain (Delhi, Oh Delhi, you have forgotten Punjab’s glorious history of sacrifice). Assi desh nu bachaya assi chadke, ladke, ladke. (We have risen many times to save the country, by fighting, fighting...),” he sang, from the dais of the Kisan Mazdoor Sangharsh Committee Punjab. The song ended and a call went up: “Jo bole so Nihal (Blessed is the one who says)…” A chorus rent the air in response: “…Sat Sri Akal. (Truth is God).” In front of the stage, Amarjeet Singh Udhowali who had joined the chorus raising a clenched fist, said when asked about the Supreme Court ruling: “Yehi reaction hai, ji. (This is our reaction).” “Kaale kanoon ko radd karywaye bina hum wapis nahi jaayenge. (We will not return without getting the black laws repealed),” he said. “No matter how long the struggle stretches.” Another farmer, Paramjit Singh from Madhya Pradesh, said: “This is a way to get us out of here. We respect the Supreme Court but we are not going to go back till the laws are repealed and we get a legal guarantee on minimum support price.” At Singhu border between Delhi and Haryana, where tents of the protesting farmers stretch for kilometres, there was not one farmer this newspaper could find who was ready to accept the Supreme Court’s stay on the laws as a solution and retreat. The protesters spied a ploy to end their protest and feared that once they went back home, the government would implement the laws. “The time for putting the laws on hold is over now. It should have been done when we started our protest in Punjab and Haryana,” said Balwinder Singh, 70, from Patiala. While protests were on ever since the government brought the ordinances during the pandemic-induced lockdown in the summer, they gathered steam in September when the bills were rushed through Parliament. From September the farmers had protested in their own states, before setting out for Delhi in the last week of November. Asked if they don’t have faith in the apex court of the country, Kulwinder Singh smiled and said: “Supreme Court pe bharose ka sawal nahi hai. Hume sarkar par bharosa nahi hai. Hum yahan se jayenge, aur ye phir laagu kar denge (It’s not a question of faith in the Supreme Court. We don’t trust this government. Once we withdraw from here, the laws will be enforced again).” Many felt the Supreme Court’s intervention at this stage was to ensure there was no disturbance during the Republic Day celebration. The farmers have announced a parallel parade of tractors. “Tell Modiji to change,” snapped Harbhajan Singh Sekhu, 80, as he distributed disposable plates at a langar, referring to the celebrations on Republic Day, angry that the government was refusing to heed the farmers. “Jaane wale nahi hain. Nahi jaayenge, (We are not going back. We will not go),” Sekhu added. Asked about the Supreme Court-appointed committee of experts to review the laws and whether they should give it time, most farmers refused to accept it. “Jaankaar yahan baithe hain, ji (Experts are sitting here),” said a group of Jat farmers from Haryana’s Sonipat. “Why isn’t Modiji talking to us?” asked Satpal Singh, one of the group. “The Supreme Court should have appointed real experts from among us. We don’t regard them (committee members) as experts,” said Bhupinder, also a Jat farmer. From another of the many stages that have come up on the long stretch of the road at Delhi’s borders with Haryana, one farmer leader was heard saying the Supreme Court ruling is just another step and called upon everyone to prepare for the final battle to get the laws repealed. Standing in the crowd, Jagdeep, a housewife from Ludhiana, said she had come to join her husband in the battlefield. “Jeet ke hi jaayenge (We will return after winning),” she said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-418
13-01-2021||India||Schools of thought sprout at farm protest sites||The serpentine blockade of NH44 by farmers at Dakha Singhu on Delhi’s border with Haryana has been the cynosure of the movement against the new farm laws. However, the blockade of NH9 at Tikri Kalan — further southwest on the border — has spurred an intellectual resistance to the new laws with the first library and newspaper of the movement emerging from here. Organisers have now started a lecture series too, and they have inspired several such publications and libraries across protest sites of farmers. Himanshu Dua, an environmentalist from Ladakh, has been at home in Bahadurgarh, a northwestern suburb of Delhi in Haryana, since the pandemic started last year. On November 27, as farmers clashed with police to enter Delhi, Dua was initiated into what he calls “the revolution” by his mother, who went with him to serve tea, and later lunch, to as many beleaguered peasants as she could. Soon, delivering milk packets and medicines to protesters for free became Dua’s daily routine. After the Shahid Bhagat Singh Library was set up by activists of the CPIML-Liberation’s All India Students Association on December 10, Dua became their main supplier of books and his home turned into the delivery address for contributors. The library now has a collection of almost 3,500 books, and it has become an address in itself at Metro Pillar 783 under Pandit Shree Ram Sharma Metro station. Dua explained: “First they gave my address for deliveries, and then I began delivering the books to them. I later began to put on Instagram lists of books people ask for and I would send them to people who organise book-donation drives. After two other libraries came up, I would distribute the books equally between the three and give additional copies of books that one library received to the others.”Dua said there were now at least six libraries at Tikri alone, and the Bhagat Singh library had opened branches at the protest sites in Singhu, Ghazipur and Rajasthan’s Shahjahanpur. The books are mostly in Punjabi and Hindi, and those most in demand are writings and biographies of freedom fighters Bhagat Singh, Uddham Singh and Kartar Singh Sarabha, besides fiction of Munshi Premchand. Mukesh Kulriya, a student of the University of California, Los Angeles, one of the librarians, said the biggest challenge had been the rain and the inventory of books had deliberately been reduced to save them from water at the makeshift library. “People want to know what Bhagat Singh or his uncle Ajit Singh (who led the Pagri Sambhal Jatta movement in 1907) did to oppose colonial laws, including agrarian laws. We have around 70 people borrowing books everyday, which they keep for four to five days,” he told The Telegraph. After the library, Kulriya got involved with a bilingual biweekly that is published from the protest site. The Trolley Times, with reports and columns in Hindi and Punjabi in Gurmukhi script, was started on December 18 to counter what Kulriya calls “media and government propaganda against the farmers” and also to remind farmers that their stand was right and they had to remain resolute. The paper was the brainchild of film screenwriter and actor Surmeet Maavi, musician Gurdeep Dhaliwal and physiotherapist Ajay Pal Natt — a member of the CPIML-Liberation-backed Punjab Kisan Union. They now have a team of 10 across the five protest sites around the capital, where they circulate the newspaper. Kulriya said: “Most of the protesters are elderly and are not on social media. A newspaper in languages they understand is the best form of communication within the movement. Many of them do not leave their tractor trolleys to go to the stage. This paper informs them of what is going on and what protests are happening across the country. “(For the articles) we focus on those who are not very prominent at the protests — women, non-Sikhs, young people, labourers and so on. Such is the popularity now that we have allowed others to use our content without altering it, even if they don’t give us credit.” Translated versions in Marathi, Kannada and even French have been circulated in Maharashtra, Bangalore and Canada. English versions are available online, and have been circulated in print in Australia, New Zealand and Canada. At least two other papers from protest sites have started since. The Trolley Times faced an initial controversy after it published an article by Sukhpreet Singh Udhoke, considered by some as a Khalistani ideologue, in its inaugural edition, to dispel the notion that it was solely a communist paper. Since then, it has had people of all political persuasions contribute, also from Madhya Pradesh and Maharashtra where similar farmers’ protests have started. Besides the serious stuff, it offers slice-of-life articles such as testimonies of men who never entered a kitchen before but have now learnt to make perfect rotis. “We file, edit and produce the paper entirely on our mobile phones. We may not be technically sound, but we thrive on spontaneity,” Kulriya said. On January 7, the young activists began the “Trolley Talks” lecture series, with Jawaharlal Nehru University professor Atul Sood speaking on the farm laws and democracy, in Punjabi and Hindi. “Social scientists have a lot to learn from them (farmers). Their unions translated the laws in Punjabi and began the agitation in August, and they know more about the laws than we do. In the last six months, they have peeled off the layers of the policy framework of agriculture and it is a lesson in democracy that they have made the connections between changes in labour laws and agricultural laws,” he told this newspaper.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-419
13-01-2021||India||Farm law implementation, MSP tweak on hold||The Supreme Court on Tuesday stayed the implementation of the three farm laws, restrained the Centre from tinkering with the minimum support price and allowing the sale of farmers’ land, and constituted a four-member committee to broker peace between the government and the protesting peasants. The court-appointed committee has been asked to submit its report within two months of its formal constitution over the next 10 days. The bench of Chief Justice S.A. Bobde and Justices A.S. Bopanna and V. Ramasubramanian said it does not intend to hinder the farmers’ protest at Delhi’s borders demanding the repeal of the three laws and a legally guaranteed MSP. The lawyers appearing for different farm bodies — most of these outfits are not part of the agitation whose participants are against the court’s intervention — had suggested several alternative protest sites. The apex court left the task of convincing the agitating farmers and their families to go back home to the various farmers’ organisations. “…Having heard different perspectives, we deem it fit to pass the following interim order, with the hope and expectation that both parties will take this in the right spirit and attempt to arrive at a fair, equitable and just solution to the problems,” the court said. The court stayed “until further orders” the “implementation” of the Farmers’ Produce Trade and Commerce (Promotion and Facilitation) Act, 2020; the Essential Commodities (Amendment) Act, 2020; and the Farmers’ (Empowerment and Protection) Agreement on Price Assurance and Farm Services Act, 2020, all of which had been steamrolled through Parliament by the government. “In addition, the farmers’ land holdings shall be protected, i.e., no farmer shall be dispossessed or deprived of his title as a result of any action taken under the farm laws,” the court said. Appointing the four-member committee, the court said the panel had been “constituted for the purpose of listening to the grievances of the farmers relating to the farm laws and the views of the government and to make recommendations”. The committee has as members Bhupinder Singh Mann, chairman of the All India Kisan Coordination Committee; Dr Parmod Kumar Joshi, agricultural economist and director for South Asia, International Food Policy Research Institute; Ashok Gulati, agricultural economist and former chairman of the Commission for Agricultural Costs and Prices; and Anil Ghanwat, president of the Shetkari Sanghatana. The court posted the matter for further hearing after eight weeks, by which time it expects the panel to undertake the exercise of a negotiated solution to the vexed issue. However, the bench issued notice to the Delhi government on an application moved by the Centre to prevent the farmers from taking out a rally on January 26 to coincide with the Republic Day celebrations in the capital. The Supreme Court said the committee would be provided a place and secretarial assistance at Delhi by the Centre, which will also bear all expenses for its sittings. “The representatives of all the farmers’ bodies, whether they are holding a protest or not and whether they support or oppose the laws, shall participate in the deliberations of the committee and put forth their view points. The committee shall, upon hearing the government as well as the representatives of the farmers’ bodies and other stakeholders, submit a report before this court containing its recommendations. This shall be done within two months from the date of its first sitting. The first sitting shall be held within 10 days from today,” the court said. “While we may not stifle a peaceful protest, we think that this extraordinary order of stay of implementation of the farm laws will be perceived as an achievement of the purpose of such protest at least for the present and will encourage the farmers’ bodies to convince their members to get back to their livelihood, both in order to protect their own lives and health and in order to protect the lives and properties of others,” the order added.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-419
13-01-2021||India||‘Toxic’  liquor kills 14 in Morena||Fourteen people died and 20 fell ill after drinking suspected spurious liquor in Madhya Pradesh’s Morena district on Monday night. According to preliminary reports, some residents of Manpur and Pahawali villages in the district drank white-coloured liquor, a senior police officer said. Later, people in some nearby villages also fell ill after drinking suspected spurious liquor, he said. An investigation has been ordered and four government officials, including policemen, have been suspended. This was the second such incident in Madhya Pradesh in the past three months. In October last year, 14 people had died after drinking spurious liquor in Ujjain. Deputy inspector-general (DIG) Rajesh Hingankar told reporters that a case has been registered under Section 304 (culpable homicide not amounting to murder) of the Indian Penal Code (IPC) and Sections 34 and 91 of the Excise Act. A few persons have been rounded up, the DIG said. The post-mortem report is awaited to know if the liquor was poisonous or not, he added. Madhya Pradesh chief minister Shivraj Singh Chouhan has ordered the suspension of the Morena district excise officer for negligence. He said “drastic” action would be taken against the guilty. “The Morena incident is very unfortunate and tragic. The investigation is going on. The district excise officer has been suspended for prima facie negligence. As soon as the remaining facts of the investigation come out, whoever is found guilty will not be spared. We will take drastic action,” Chouhan said in a tweet. State home minister Narottam Mishra said a police officer had been suspended. “The incident of deaths caused by drinking poisonous liquor in Morena is very sad and painful. The in-charge of the police station concerned has been suspended.,” he tweeted. The DIG informed that two more policemen — a sub-inspector and a head constable —  had been suspended State Congress chief Kamal Nath hit out at the Chouhan regime. “The liquor mafia continues to wreak havoc after killing 16 in Ujjain, now they have killed about 10 people in Morena. Shivraj ji, how long will the liquor mafia keep killing people like this? The government should provide proper treatment to the sick and help the affected families in every way possible,” Nath asked in a tweet.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-419
13-01-2021||India||S. Jaishankar hints at ‘impaired’ trust in China||India’s foreign minister S. Jaishankar said on Tuesday that trust with China had been deeply impaired after last summer’s border clash which resulted in the first combat deaths in 45 years. Ties with the United States, on the other hand, were converging and were likely to expand under the new administration in Washington, India’s top diplomat told the Reuters Next conference. Tensions with China erupted in June, when 20 Indian soldiers were killed in brutal hand-to-hand fighting, while China suffered an unspecified number of casualties in the clash on a disputed section of the border in the western Himalayas. Both sides have deployed heavily in the contested area, and the escalation poses the most serious military crisis between the nuclear-armed neighbours for decades. “After 45 years, you’ve actually had bloodshed on the border. And that’s had a huge impact on public opinion and politically.... really the impact of trust and confidence in India where China and their relationship is concerned. That has been profoundly disturbed,” Jaishankar said. The two countries fought a border war in 1962, but until last summer they had largely kept a lid on tensions along the Line of Actual Control, the de facto border, while expanding commercial ties. “Now last year, for reasons which are not clear to us, the Chinese really brought an enormous military force to one part of the border. And then at the Line of Actual Control, obviously we moved up when we saw them coming and that has sort of created, friction points along the Line of Actual Control,” Jaishankar said. Several rounds of military and diplomatic negotiations have taken place but there has been no pullback of forces from the frontline. India expects the talks to lead to an amicable solution, the Indian Army chief General Manoj Mukund Narvane said on Tuesday. US ties Jaishankar said relations with the United States were on the upswing and he was confident about its direction under the incoming Biden administration. “When I look at many of the challenges we face, the US is going to be much more open looking for partners and I’m confident about where we are going with the relationship.” India has built close defence ties with Washington, buying more than $20 billion of weapons over the last 15 years, as it diversifies away from traditional supplier Russia. Together with the US allies Japan and Australia, it has participated in naval exercises in the Indian Ocean which security analysts say is part of attempts to balance China’s assertive actions in the region. “Structurally the relationship with the US is very, very sound, it has very unique elements, there is political convergence, growing security and defence convergence,” Jaishankar said. On trade though, the two countries got bogged down in details and lost the “wood for the trees”, he said. Negotiators have been working toward a mini trade pact for months without making headway. Jaishankar said India would respond positively to any offer or invitation from the Biden administration to restart some kind of free-trade talks. Reuters||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-419
13-01-2021||India||Fisticuffs at Congress meet over Bihar Assembly elections||The new All India Congress Committee Bihar in-charge’s first meeting with the state unit degenerated into an ugly fight on Tuesday over last year’s Assembly elections in which the party had fared poorly. As leaders brawled at Sadaquat Ashram, the state party headquarters in Patna, in the presence of AICC Bihar in-charge Bhakta Charan Das, someone pushed Congress farmers’ cell leader Raj Kumar Sharma alias Raju Singh off the 4ft-high dais. A few people kicked him while some others rushed to his rescue. The Congressmen pushed, shoved and attacked each other. A few hurled chairs towards the dais and expletives filled the air. Leaders appealed to the people to stay calm, but it fell on deaf ears. Security personnel and bodyguards rushed in to protect the legislators present at the meeting. Das, who had come to enthuse new life into the party that won only 19 of the 70 seats it contested, remained a spectator. Several other senior leaders, including Bihar Pradesh Congress Committee president Madan Mohan Jha, Congress Legislature Party leader Ajit Sharma and MLC Prem Chandra Mishra were also present at the meeting. Since Das’s arrival in Bihar on Monday, he has been flooded with complaints from Congressmen about alleged nepotism in the distribution of tickets for the elections and the “sale” of tickets. At the meeting on Tuesday it took over an hour to restore peace. Yet, a few Congress leaders could be seen roaming around the meeting venue with hockey sticks a few hours later while Das was holding a media meet. Asked about the fight, Das said: “These things are common in Bihar. I have seen many such things in my life. However, I did not run away. I stood steadfast and managed to make everybody sit down.” “Some people do not do any work (for the party), but just talk and want to take credit. This won’t do. We are not going to tolerate indiscipline. People will have to abide by the decisions of the party and its ethics. Those who don’t will be expelled,” Das added. He suggested that those who created the ruckus at the meeting were not associated with the party. “Our party organisation is definitely in a weak situation here. We will make it stronger. This is a challenge before us,” Das said. A senior Congress leader later told this newspaper: “There is pent-up frustration in the organisation over the way tickets were distributed during the Assembly elections and the poor results. There is a belief that tickets were sold by senior leaders. Moreover, there is general anger over the way the party is being managed in Bihar.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-419
13-01-2021||India||Naveen set for first post-Covid meeting||Chief minister Naveen Patnaik will attend his first public meeting, around 10 months after the outbreak of the coronavirus pandemic, in Kalahandi on Thursday on Makar Sankranti, one of the festivals that is celebrated in western Odisha in a big way. The chief minister had been so far confined to Naveen Niwas, except for visiting the shrines of Lord Jagannath in Puri and Lord Lingaraj in Bhubaneswar and the Baramunda bus stand for a review. The ruling Biju Janata Dal has asked nearly 70 of its MLAs and ministers to reach Kalahandi a day ahead of Naveen’s public meeting. They have been asked to fan out to different parts of the district, right upto the panchayat level, to make people aware of the various welfare programmes of the government. Sources said the chief minister will practically launch the party’s campaign for the upcoming municipal elections from Kalahandi. Though poll dates are yet to be announced, the election is likely to be held sometime in the middle of the year. “Naveen’s decision to start his first public meeting after the coronavirus pandemic in Kalahandi has political significance. The BJP is emerging as a force in the district. In the last panchayat and zilla parishad elections, the BJD had failed to put up a good show in the district. Considering all these factors our leader has chosen the district for the meeting which will send out a signal to the people of Kalahandi and western Odisha which is considered to be underdeveloped,” said a senior BJD leader. Minister for energy, industries and MSME Dibya Shankar Mishra, who hails from Kalahandi district, told The Telegraph: “Real transformation is going to take place in Kalahandi. More than Rs 2,000 crore has been invested in the agriculture sector. The district will see a transformation from poverty to prosperity under the leadership of the chief minister.” He added: “Though the BJP is making an attempt to make inroads into Kalahandi, it would not be successful. In the last zilla parishad elections, we had lost miserably and won only one out of 36 seats and the BJP had won 33 seats. But later we stepped up our efforts and won four out of five Assembly seats in the district and BJP had won only one. But this time in the zilla parishad elections, we will win all the 36 seats.” However, the Kalahandi Lok Sabha seat is represented by the BJP. Significantly, before Naveen’s visit, senior IAS officer Asit Tripathy, who retired as the chief secretary on December 31, has taken charge as the chairperson of the Western Odisha Development Council. “The move indicates how Naveen babu is focusing on western Odisha,” said the BJD leader. The district was earlier known for acute poverty and allegations of famine and starvation deaths. Naveen himself posted information about his proposed visit to Kalahandi on social media. During the visit the chief minister will inaugurate the Rs 756-crore Indravati mega lift irrigation project. Once the 33km-long canal project begins functioning, irrigation facilities will be available to 26,248 hectares of land in 91 villages under three blocks of the district. Besides, Naveen will launch other projects worth Rs 1,300 crore. According to the schedule, nearly 2,000 people will congregate at the meeting venue and the programme will be telecast live. “The 2,000 people who will attend the meeting will have to get their Covid tests done,” Mishra said. The MLAs and ministers, who have been asked to camp in the panchayats, will ensure that people can watch the programme live on LED screens. Party MLAs and leaders have been asked to adhere strictly to Covid-19 guidelines.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-419
