14-01-2021||India||Sharad Pawar: Charges against Munde serious||With the demand for the resignation of Maharashtra Minister Dhananjay Munde getting louder, his party NCP on Thursday stated that the issue - Munde being accused of rape by a Mumbai woman, will be discussed internally, following which they would be deciding on his fate. NCP president Sharad Pawar mentioned that the allegation against the Social Justice Minister was serious and added the party will discuss the issue and decide on it as soon as possible. Pawar while addressing the media told that Munde (45) met him on Wednesday and explained the details in connection with the allegation. “I think the allegation against him (Munde) is serious. Naturally, we will have to discuss the issue as a party. I will discuss the same in detail with my key colleagues and take them into confidence,” Pawar said. “Further steps will be taken after knowing their views. We will do this as soon as possible,” he added. Munde on the other hand told reporters that Pawar and other leaders of the party will take a call on the issue of his resignation. Maharashtra NCP president and state minister Jayant Patil maintained that Munde will not resign just because someone has made allegations, but asserted that the issue will discussed inside the NCP and a decision will be taken based on facts. Talking to reporters, Patil stated that any conclusion should be reached only based on police probe outcome into the matter. The Water Resources Minister informed that so far there has been neither any discussion in the party over Mundes resignation nor the latter has offered to resign. Munde was being blackmailed and he had even registered a police complaint. “We should reach any conclusion based on the outcome of the police probe. We need not jump to a conclusion,” Patil said. He further added that Munde had complaint about the alleged blackmailing by the woman at the Bandra Police Station, but the cops did not take appropriate action at the same. Hence, Munde had approached the Bombay High Court, Patil said. “Now, the police should conduct an initial probe into the matter. I am sure you will take note if some woman is defaming a politician by levelling random allegations”, he added. Seconding Pawar, Patil maintained that the allegation against Munde is serious but facts need to be checked. “It is also not expected of the party to take any decision without verifying the truth if anyone levels allegation against someone,” he said. Patil added, “Shiv Sena-led government, of which the NCP is a key partner, is not interfering in the matter.” He, however, maintained that the situation will definitely be reviewed internally. “If need be, we will take appropriate positions based on facts at the level of the Chief Minister (Uddhav Thackeray),” Patil said. “It will not happen that he will resign just because someone has made allegations,” he added. The 37-year-old woman, an aspiring singer, had said that she had written to the Mumbai police commissioner on January 10, stating that Munde had repeatedly raped her in 2006. She also claimed that she had approached the Oshiwara police here earlier but her complaint was ignored. Munde, an NCP leader from Beed district, has denied the allegations, claiming he is being blackmailed by the woman and her sister. Speaking to reporters separately, Shiv Sena MP Sanjay Raut termed the issue involving Munde as personal and familial. “I think we should leave it to Dhananjay Munde. It is completely his personal, familial matter. And he will find a way out of it,” Raut said. He also added that the NCPs leadership is discerning and matured to take a call on the issue. Without naming any opposition party, Raut said that it is an illusion if they think Mundes character assassination will bedevil the Maha Vikas Aghadi government. “I dont think the opposition has levelled direct allegations. But I can only say that this is not a political issue, but of the family,” Raut said. Meanwhile, the opposition Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) demanded Munde’s resignation. State BJP president Chandrakant Patil said, “Munde should step down immediately.” “Munde has been accused of sexual harassment and he has no right to be in the cabinet. A minister would immediately tender his resignation following such allegations but this thick-skinned government is unlikely to take any action against him, but we will press our demand,” Chandrakant Patil said. However, leader of opposition Devendra Fadnavis took a more cautious stand when asked with the charges against Munde and his resignation. “We need to consider both the sides before making any demand. The party (NCP) and the chief minister should look into it,” Fadnavis said. Munde has maintained that the woman’s claims were part of a conspiracy to blackmail him. He, however, acknowledged that he was in a relationship with the woman’s sister and has two children with her. In a statement issued on Tuesday, Munde said his wife, family and friends were aware of this relationship, adding the two kids have been accepted by his family. BJP leader and former MP Kirit Somaiya has written to the Election Commission, saying Munde did not mention about his son and daughter from the relationship in his poll affidavit.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-413
14-01-2021||India||No foreign head of state as R-Day chief guest due to pandemic: MEA||No foreign dignitary or leader will be attending this year’s Republic Day celebration as the chief guest, due to the global situation arising out of the coronavirus pandemic, announced the Ministry of External Affairs (MEA) on Thursday. It will be for the first time in over five decades that India will not be having a chief guest at the Republic Day parade. “Due to the global Covid-19 situation, it has been decided that this year there will not be a foreign head of state or head of government as the chief guest for our Republic Day event,” MEA Spokesperson Anurag Srivastava announced at a media briefing. The decision was taken after British Prime Minister Boris Johnson’s last-minute decision to cancel his visit due to the spread of a mutant strain of the coronavirus in the UK. India had invited Johnson as the Republic Day chief guest and he accepted India’s invitation, calling it “a great honour”. However, earlier this month, he chose to cancel his India visit due to the pandemic that has escalated in the UK following the mutant variant.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-413
14-01-2021||India||Rahul Gandhi accuses government of ‘destroying’ farmers||Congress leader Rahul Gandhi on Thursday took a dig at the Centre over the three new farm laws, alleging that the government was “conspiring to destroy” the ryots and assured that his party will stand with them. Talking to the media at Madurai, the former Congress chief said that the Narendra Modi-led government at the Centre is trying to benefit “two or three of their friends” on the matter. “The government is not just neglecting them (farmers), the government is conspiring to destroy them. There is a difference. Neglecting is ignoring...they are not ignoring them,” he said in response to a query. “They are trying to destroy them, because they want to benefit two or three of their friends. They want to give what belongs to the farmer to two or three of their friends,” he alleged. Farmers, mainly from Punjab and Haryana, have been protesting against the new Central farm laws outside Delhi, demanding for their repeal. “They want to take the land of the farmer, produce of the farmer and they want to give it to their friends,” Gandhi alleged. “You are suppressing the farmers, helping a handful of businesses,” he said. Extending his party's support to the farmers, Gandhi said the laws will indeed be repealed. Charging Narendra Modi with “not supporting” the common man during the coronavirus pandemic, Gandhi asked “whose Prime Minister are you?” “Are you the Prime Minister of the people of India or the Prime Minister of two-three selected businessmen,” he asked. He also sought to know why Modi was “silent” on the months-long Sino-India standoff, asking “why are the Chinese people sitting inside Indian territory?”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-413
14-01-2021||India||Centre, farmers say ninth round of talks still on||The government's ninth round of negotiations with protesting farmer unions will take place as scheduled on Friday and the Centre is hopeful of positive discussions, Agriculture Minister Narendra Singh Tomar said on Thursday. "The government is ready to hold talks with farmers' leaders with an open mind," Tomar told reporters here. Clearing the confusion over the fate of the ninth round of talks, which was the only outcome in the last meeting on January 8, in the wake of the Supreme Court on January 11 appointing a four-member panel to resolve the impasse and a key member of the proposed committee subsequently recusing himself, Tomar said the talks between the government and the union representatives will take place as scheduled for 12 pm on January 15. The farmer unions have been maintaining that they were ready to attend the scheduled talks with the government, even as they have said they do not want to appear before the court-appointed panel and have also questioned its composition. Meanwhile, Bharatiya Kisan Union leader Rakesh Tikait on Thursday said that agitating farmers’ unions are ready to hold talks with the government and attend the ninth round of negotiations as per schedule. He stressed on the necessity of continuing the dialogue to resolve the deadlock and end the agitation. Tikait also said the protesting unions will attend the meeting with union ministers on Friday. Asked if unions have any hope from the Friday meeting, Tikait told PTI, “Let's see what happens tomorrow. But, our meetings will continue with the government till our protest ends as it is necessary.” “We will not oppose the meetings with the government,” Tikait said when asked if Friday’s meeting could be the last if nothing comes out of the talks. The farmer unions have been maintaining that they were ready to attend the scheduled talks with the government, even as they have said they do not want to appear before the court-appointed panel and have also questioned its composition. Earlier in the day, Bhartiya Kisan Union president Bhupinder Singh Mann said he is recusing himself from the four-member committee. Farmer unions and opposition parties had called it a "pro-government" panel, insisting that its members have been in favour of the three laws in the past. Mann said he is thankful to the apex court for nominating him on the panel but would give up any position to prevent farmers' interests from being compromised. "As a farmer myself and a union leader, in view of the prevailing sentiments and apprehensions amongst the farm unions and the public in general, I am ready to sacrifice any position offered or given to me so as to not compromise the interests of Punjab and farmers of the country," he said in a statement. "I am recusing myself from the committee and I will always stand with my farmers and Punjab," Mann added. The apex court had on Tuesday stayed the implementation of the three central laws till further orders and announced the formation of a committee to hear the grievances of the farmers and the opinion of the government. Apart from Mann, Shetkari Sanghatana (Maharashtra) president Anil Ghanwat, International Food Policy Research Institute's Pramod Kumar Joshi and agriculture economist Ashok Gulati were appointed on the panel.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-413
14-01-2021||India||Army can give ‘befitting’ reply to those who want to hurt India’s pride: Rajnath||India does not support a war but its soldiers are ready to give a befitting reply if any ‘superpower’ hurts the country's pride, Defence Minister Rajnath Singh said on Thursday amid the eight-month-long border standoff with China in Eastern Ladakh. Addressing an event to mark the fifth Armed Forces Veterans’ Day at the Headquarters Training Command of the Indian Air Force in Bengaluru, Singh said, “We don’t want war and we are in favour of protecting everyone's security but I want to say this in clear terms that if any superpower wants to hurt our pride then our soldiers are capable of giving them a befitting reply.” The Defence minister insisted that India never wanted conflict with any nation and preferred to maintain peace and friendly ties with its neighbours. “It always wanted peace and friendly ties with its neighbours because it's in our blood and culture,” he said. Referring to the standoff with China, he said the Indian soldiers displayed exemplary courage and patience and if that can be narrated then every Indian will feel proud. Singh hailed the Indian soldiers who showed extraordinary courage in “eliminating terrorists on the Pakistan soil”. Chief of Defence Staff General Bipin Rawat was also present.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-414
14-01-2021||India||Ghazipur poultry market to reopen after all samples test negative||Delhi Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal on Thursday issued directions to open the Ghazipur poultry market after all 100 samples collected from there tested negative for bird flu. "Samples taken from poultry markets have tested negative with respect to Bird Flu. Have directed to open the poultry market & withdraw the orders to restrict trade & import of chicken stocks," the chief minister tweeted. Earlier in the day, a senior official of the Delhi animal husbandry unit said there is no spread of bird flu among chickens in Delhi as all the 100 samples taken from Asia's largest poultry market in Ghazipur have tested negative. The results come a day after civic authorities imposed a temporary ban on sale and storage of poultry or processed chicken meat in view of the bird flu situation here. Earlier, samples taken from crows and ducks at parks and lakes in the national capital tested positive for avian influenza. This had led to banning of the sale of processed and packaged chicken brought from outside the city and shutting the wholesale poultry market in east Delhi for 10 days as a precautionary measure by the Delhi government on Monday. The Ghazipur market located on the Delhi-Uttar Pradesh border is a key supplier of poultry products in the region. Chickens, geese, ducks and turkey are among the poultry birds bred by farmers for their eggs and meat.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-414
14-01-2021||India||BKU president recuses himself from SC committee on farm laws||Bharatiya Kisan Union president Bhupinder Singh Mann has recused himself from the four-member committee appointed by the Supreme Court to resolve the impasse between farmers and the Centre over the new agri-marketing laws, he said on Thursday. Opposition parties and protesting farmers’ unions had raised doubts on the panel, saying that its members had favoured the laws in the past. Mann said he is thankful to the apex court for nominating him on the panel but would give up any position to prevent farmers’ interests from being ‘compromised’. “As a farmer myself and a union leader, in view of the prevailing sentiments and apprehensions amongst the farm unions and the public in general, I am ready to sacrifice any position offered or given to me so as to not compromise the interests of Punjab and farmers of the country,” he said in a statement here. “I am recusing myself from the committee and I will always stand with my farmers and Punjab,” Mann added. On Tuesday, the apex court stayed the implementation of the three laws and ordered the formation of a committee to hear the grievances of the farmers and the opinion of the government. Apart from Mann, Shetkari Sanghatana (Maharashtra) president Anil Ghanwat, International Food Policy Research Institute's Pramod Kumar Joshi and agriculture economist Ashok Gulati were appointed on the panel. While welcoming the stay on the implementation of the new laws, farmer unions have said they will not appear before the group. Their leaders claimed that the members of the committee are “pro-government”. “The members of the SC-appointed committee are not dependable as they have been writing on how agri laws are pro-farmer. We will continue our agitation,” farmer leader Balbeer Singh Rajewal said at a press conference on Tuesday. Paramjit Singh, a farmer from Madhya Pradesh, said: “This is a way to get us out of here. We respect the Supreme Court but we are not going to go back till the laws are repealed and we get a legal guarantee on minimum support price.” “The representatives of all the farmers’ bodies, whether they are holding a protest or not and whether they support or oppose the laws shall participate in the deliberations of the committee and put forth their viewpoints,” it had said. Many felt the Supreme Court’s intervention at this stage was to ensure there was no disturbance during the Republic Day celebration. The farmers have announced a parallel parade of tractors. “Tell Modiji to change,” snapped Harbhajan Singh Sekhu, 80, as he distributed disposable plates at a langar, referring to the celebrations on Republic Day, angry that the government was refusing to heed the farmers. “Jaane wale nahi hain. Nahi jaayenge, (We are not going back. We will not go),” Sekhu added. Asked about the Supreme Court-appointed committee of experts to review the laws and whether they should give it time, most farmers refused to accept it. The Supreme Court, however, expected them to participate. The committee was asked to submit its report to the Supreme Court within two months of its first sitting, which is to take place within 10 days.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-414
14-01-2021||India||Centre examining WhatsApp’s privacy policy amid backlash||Amid backlash over WhatsApp’s controversial changes of linking its users’ data to Facebook’s other products and services, the government is examining and evaluating this privacy policy of the messaging platform, sources said. The IT Ministry is engaged in internal discussions regarding the implications of the recent update by the Facebook-owned platform, said the sources. The issue needs to be looked at, in detail, given that concerns have been raised by a large section of users including some top business leaders, they added. WhatsApp counts India as one of its biggest markets globally, with 400 million users in the country. Sources further said that WhatsApp’s policy update would also be evaluated in the context of the current legal framework. A decision regarding summoning WhatsApp for explanation is likely to be taken soon. The development comes amid a raging debate over WhatsApp’s controversial update in its terms of service and privacy policy around how it processes user data and partners with Facebook to offer integrations across the social media giant’s products. WhatsApp had informed users about these changes through an in-app notification, last week. It said that users will have to agree to the new terms and policy by February 8, in order to continue using the platform. This led to a user backlash and triggered memes on the internet over WhatsApp’s alleged sharing of user information with Facebook. Many users have also started shifting to rival platforms like Telegram and Signal, and these platforms have seen millions of downloads globally in the immediate aftermath of the event. Amid the public furore, WhatsApp, on its part, has sought to assuage users’ concerns saying its latest policy update does not affect the privacy of messages on the platform. In a blogpost earlier this week, WhatsApp emphasised that it does not share users’ contact lists or data of groups with Facebook for advertisement purposes.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-414
14-01-2021||India||Over 8,000 health workers to get inoculated in capital, says Kejriwal||Delhi Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal on Thursday said that the state government has completed every preparation required for the Covid-19 vaccination drive, which starts in India on January 16. Kejriwal said over 8,000 health workers will be vaccinated on every scheduled day in the city, adding that he had taken a stock of the situation. The Delhi government has received 2.74 lakh doses of the vaccine so far from the Centre, which would be sufficient for 1.2 lakh health workers. There are a total of 2.4 lakh health workers in Delhi and more vaccine doses are expected to arrive soon, the chief minister said in an address. The Delhi government will begin the vaccination drive on Saturday starting with 81 centres, the number of which will be increased after a few days to 175 and finally 1,000, he said. The vaccine will be administered on four days of the week -- Monday, Tuesday, Thursday and Saturday. It will not be given on Sunday and two other days of the week -- Wednesday and Friday. “The rest of the days will be left for other vaccinations. We do not want the vaccination schedules for other illnesses to suffer due to this,” NDTV quoted Kejriwal as saying. Each day 100 people will be administered the vaccine, he said and hoped people will finally get rid of the virus after facing hardships for the past many months.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-414
14-01-2021||India||Modi to launch vaccination drive on January 16||Prime Minister Narendra Modi will launch the rollout of India's COVID-19 vaccination programme on January 16, the Union Health Ministry said on Thursday. He is likely to interact via video link with some healthcare workers from across the country who will be receiving the shots on the first day, according to sources. Modi is also likely to launch the Co-WIN (COVID Vaccine Intelligence Network) App, a digital platform created for real-time monitoring of COVID-19 vaccine delivery and distribution, they said. The health ministry said, "The massive countrywide COVID-19 vaccination drive will be rolled out by Prime Minister from January 16. This would be the world's largest immunisation exercise. Therefore, it has been decided by the Ministry of Health in consultation with the office of the President of India to reschedule the Polio vaccination day, also known as the National Immunisation Day (NID) or 'Polio Ravivar' to 31st January." This will be the world's largest vaccination programme covering the entire length and breadth of the country and all preparations are in place to initiate the programme on the principles of 'Jan Bhagidari', the Prime Minister's Office said in a statement. Prime Minister Modi will launch the pan-India rollout of the COVID-19 vaccination drive on January 16 at 10:30 AM via video conferencing, the PMO said.
A total of 3,006 session sites across all states and UTs will be virtually connected during the launch and around 100 beneficiaries will be vaccinated at each session site on the first day, the statement said. Adequate doses of both Covishield and Covaxin have already been delivered across the country to all States/UTs with the active support of the Ministry of Civil Aviation. These have been further delivered by the State/UT governments to the districts, the PMO said.
The vaccination programme will use Co-WIN, an online digital platform developed by Union Health Ministry, which will facilitate real-time information of vaccine stocks, storage temperature and individualised tracking of beneficiaries for COVID-19 vaccine. This digital platform will assist programme managers across all levels while conducting vaccination sessions, the PMO said. A dedicated 24x7 call centre 1075 has also been established for addressing the queries related to COVID-19 pandemic, vaccine rollout and the Co-WIN software.
Officials at New Delhi's AIIMS and Safdarjung hospitals, which are among the shortlisted facilities, said they are "ready for a two-way communication".
The PMO statement said the vaccination programme is based on principles of priority groups to be vaccinated first. Healthcare workers, both in the government and private sectors, including Integrated Child Development Services (ICDS) workers, will receive the vaccine during this phase.
The Drugs Controller General of India (DCGI) had earlier this month approved Oxford COVID-19 vaccine Covishield, manufactured by the Serum Institute, and indigenously developed Covaxin of Bharat Biotech for restricted emergency use in the country, paving the way for a massive inoculation drive.
Adequate doses of both Covishield and Covaxin have already been delivered across the country to all States/UTs with the active support of the Ministry of Civil Aviation. These have been further delivered by the State/UT governments to the districts, the PMO said. Officials at New Delhi's AIIMS and Safdarjung hospitals, which are among the shortlisted facilities, said they are "ready for a two-way communication". Around three lakh healthcare workers will get vaccine shots at the sites across the country on the first day of the massive nationwide COVID-19 vaccination drive, a senior official said. Each vaccination session will cater to a maximum of 100 beneficiaries. According to the guidelines issued to the shortlisted vaccination centres, healthcare workers (those registered in Co-WIN to be vaccinated) on the launch shall include not only doctors, nurses but also nursing orderlies, safai karamcharis, ambulance drivers, and would be from a mixed age group, including above 50 years. The full initial procurement of 1.65 crore doses of COVID-19 vaccines - Covishield and Covaxin-- has been allocated to all states and UTs in proportion to their healthcare workers database. "Therefore, there is no question of discrimination against any State in allocation of vaccination doses. This is the initial lot of supply of vaccine doses and would be continuously replenished in the weeks to come. Therefore, any apprehension being expressed on account of deficient supply is totally baseless and unfounded," the ministry said. States have been advised to organize vaccination sessions taking into account 10 per cent reserve/wastage doses and an average of 100 vaccinations per session per day. Therefore, any undue haste on the parts of the states to organize unreasonable numbers of vaccination per site per day is not advised, the ministry had said on Wednesday. The states and UTs have also been advised to increase the number of vaccination session sites that would be operational every day in a progressive manner as the vaccination process stabilizes and moves forward. According to the government, the shots will be offered first to an estimated one crore healthcare workers, and around two crore frontline workers, and then to persons above 50 years of age, followed by persons younger than 50 years of age with associated comorbidities. Cost of vaccination of healthcare and frontline workers will be borne by the central government.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-414
14-01-2021||India||India records almost 17,000 Covid cases, 198 new fatalities in a day||India's Covid-19 caseload increased to 1,05,12,093 with 16,946 infections being reported in a day, while recoveries have surged to 1,01,46,763, according to Union health ministry data updated on Thursday. The death toll has increased to 1,51,727 with 198 new fatalities, the data updated at 8 am showed. The number of people who have recuperated from the disease has surged to 1,01,46,763, pushing the national Covid-19 recovery rate to 96.52 per cent, while the Covid-19 case fatality rate stands at 1.44 per cent. The Covid-19 active caseload remained below three lakh. There are 2,13,603 active coronavirus infections in the country which comprise 2.03 per cent of the total caseload, the data stated. India's Covid-19 tally had crossed 20 lakh on August 7, 30 lakh on August 23, 40 lakh on September 5 and 50 lakh on September 16. It went past 60 lakh on September 28, 70 lakh on October 11, crossed 80 lakh on October 29, 90 lakh on November 20 and surpassed the one-crore mark on December 19. According to the Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR), 18,42,32,305 samples have been tested up to January 14 with 7,43,191 samples being tested on Wednesday. The 198 new fatalities include 70 from Maharashtra, 26 from Kerala, 18 from West Bengal, 15 from Uttar Pradesh and 11 from Delhi. A total of 1,51,727 deaths have been reported so far in the country, including 50,221 from Maharashtra followed by 12,242 from Tamil Nadu, 12,152 from Karnataka, 10,718 from Delhi, 9,993 from West Bengal, 8,529 from Uttar Pradesh, 7,134 from Andhra Pradesh and 5,463 from Punjab. The health ministry stressed that more than 70 per cent of the deaths occurred due to comorbidities. "Our figures are being reconciled with the ICMR," the ministry said on its website, adding that state-wise distribution of figures is subject to further verification and reconciliation.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-414
14-01-2021||India||Vaccination for 3 lakh health workers on Day One of rollout||Around 3 lakh healthcare workers will be inoculated at 2,934 sites across the country on the first day of the massive nationwide COVID-19 vaccination drive which is set to begin from January 16, official sources said. Each vaccination session will cater to a maximum of 100 beneficiaries and the Union Health Ministry has advised states not to organise "unreasonable numbers of vaccination per site per day". "States have been advised to organise vaccination sessions taking into account 10 per cent reserve/wastage doses and an average of 100 vaccinations per session each day. "Therefore, any undue haste on the part of states to organise unreasonable numbers of vaccination per site per day is not advised," the ministry said on Wednesday. It also said that states and UTs have also been advised to increase the number of vaccination session sites that would be operational every day in a progressive manner as the vaccination process stabilises and moves forward. "Around 3 lakh frontline healthcare workers will be inoculated at 2,934 sites across the country on the first day of January 16," a source said. The government on Tuesday hinted that vaccine recipients for now will not have the option to choose from the two vaccines -- Oxford COVID-19 vaccine, Covishield, manufactured by Serum Institute of India (SII) and indigenously developed Covaxin of Bharat Biotech -- that have been approved for restricted emergency use in India. According to the Health Ministry getting vaccinated for COVID-19 will be voluntary. Union Health Secretary Rajesh Bhushan had said on Tuesday, "At many places in the world more than one vaccine is being administered. But, presently, in no country vaccine recipients have the option of choosing the shots." According to the government, the shots will be offered first to an estimated one crore healthcare workers, and around two crore frontline workers, and then to persons above 50 years of age, followed by persons younger than 50 years of age with associated comorbidities. The cost of vaccination of healthcare and frontline workers will be borne by the central government, officials had said. All 1.65 crore doses of COVID-19 vaccines -- 1.1 crore of Covishield and 55 lakh of Covaxin -- procured by the Centre have been allocated to all states and UTs in proportion to their healthcare workers database, it said. According to official sources, most of the 1.1 crore Covishield doses from Pune-based SII have been shipped to 60 consignee points across India from where they will be sent to smaller centres. Of the 55 lakh doses of indigenously developed Covaxin of Bharat Biotech ordered by the Centre, the first tranche of 2.4 lakh doses has been dispatched to 12 states. Covaxin has been sent to 12 sites --- one each in Ganavaram, Guwahati, Patna, Delhi, Kurukshetra, Bengaluru, Pune, Bhubaneswar, Jaipur, Chennai, Lucknow and Hyderabad, an official source said. Covaxin has been developed by Bharat Biotech in collaboration with the Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR). Health Ministry officials said that there will be a gap of 28 days between two doses of COVID-19 vaccines and its effectiveness can be seen only after 14 days, and urged people to keep following COVID appropriate behaviour. The ministry, which has listed series of frequently asked questions (FAQs) on COVID-19 vaccine, also stated that it was advisable to receive a complete schedule of the anti-coronavirus vaccine irrespective of past history of coronavirus infection as this will help in developing a strong immune response against the disease. On whether a person with an active COVID-19 infection be vaccinated, AIIMS Director Dr Randeep Guleria said a person with active and symptomatic COVID-19 infection may increase the risk of spreading the same to others at the vaccination site and thus infected individuals should defer vaccination for at least 14 days after the symptoms are resolved. Elaborating on the possible side-effects of COVID-19 vaccine, Guleria said that as is true for other vaccines, some will have some degree of side effects in some individuals which could be in form of mild fever, pain at the site of injection, body ache, etc. States have been asked to making arrangements to deal with any COVID-19 vaccine-related side effects as one of the measures towards safe vaccine delivery.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-414
14-01-2021||India||Severe cold wave grips Delhi as minimum temperature dips below 2 degrees Celsius||Parts of Delhi reeled under a "severe" cold wave and witnessed "dense" fog on Thursday as the minimum temperature dropped to 2 degrees Celsius, the India Meteorological Department (IMD) said. Visibility levels dropped to 100 metres at Palam and 201 metres at Safdarjung due to "dense" to "moderate" fog in the morning, an IMD official said. According to the IMD, "very dense" fog is when visibility is between 0 and 50 metres. In case of "dense" fog, visibility is between 51 and 200 metres, "moderate" 201 and 500 metres, and "shallow" 501 and 1,000 metres. The Safdarjung Observatory, which provides representative data for the city, recorded a minimum of 2 degrees Celsius, five notches below normal, as against 3.2 degrees Celsius on Wednesday. The weather stations at Lodhi Road and Ridge recorded a minimum of 2.4 and 3.6 degrees Celsius, respectively. In the plains, the IMD declares a cold wave if the minimum temperature dips to 4 degrees Celsius. A severe cold wave is when the minimum is 2 degrees Celsius or less. Cold and dry northerly/northwesterly winds from the western Himalayas have been barreling through the plains, bringing the minimum temperature in north India down, Kuldeep Srivastava, the head of the IMD's regional forecasting centre said. On January 1, the city had recorded a minimum of 1.1 degrees Celsius, lowest for the month in 15 years. Delhi had been registering above-normal minimum temperatures till Monday, as a cloud cover persisted over the city under the influence of successive Western Disturbances. However, the temperature started dropping with the commencement of cold northwesterly winds after the withdrawal of the latest WD.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-414
14-01-2021||India||SC didn’t act on CAA but entering uncharted terrain on farms: Dave||The Supreme Court is making forays into uncharted territory by staying the implementation of the new farm laws while refusing to freeze the Citizenship Amendment Act and the recent “love jihad” ordinances issued by the governments in Uttar Pradesh and Uttarakhand, eminent jurist Dushyant Dave told The Telegraph on Wednesday. “The Supreme Court’s decisions to stay the implementation of the farm laws and constitute a four-member panel raise very serious question marks about the purpose and object underlying the decisions,” Dave said in an interview in which he spoke of his greatest respect for the court. Dave, president of the Supreme Court Bar Association (SCBA), described as “astonishing” the top court’s decision to hold a hearing on Tuesday although the listed business mentioned only the issuance of orders, which ensured that he and some other key lawyers could not take part in the proceedings. Dave is one of the lawyers representing various farmers’ groups in the court. Referring to Tuesday’s court decisions, Dave said: “If Parliament had passed the laws, what is a committee going to do when direct negotiations between the farmers and the government have yielded no results after eight rounds? The court was clearly making forays into uncharted territory and into a very serious political issue confronting the nation. “The court has powers to grant a stay, no doubt, even of legislation but it can do so only if the laws are ex facie (on their face) unconstitutional. The order passed does not record such a reason. The court, perhaps as observed during the hearing, is moved by the plight of the farmers. Well and good,” Dave said. “But the same court in December 2019/ January 2020 flatly declined to grant a stay on the implementation of the Citizenship Amendment Act, as a result of which tens of innocent lives were lost. Thousands of properties were destroyed. Even a few weeks ago, the bench (led by Chief Justice S.A. Bobde, who also heads the farm law bench) declined to stay the operation of the ordinance issued in Uttar Pradesh and other states on the issue of ‘love jihad’, as a result of which tens of innocent people have gone to jail under prima facie draconian and unconstitutional laws.” The so-called love jihad laws seek to criminalise inter-religious marriages if conducted ostensibly for the purpose of religious conversion. Dave recalled a newspaper article he had written in the last week of December 2019 requesting Justice Bobde to constitute an urgent bench during the vacation and stay the Citizenship Amendment Act. “Sadly, the court never took notice of it,” Dave said. He said that under the Constitution, the Supreme Court has a paramount duty to maintain strong checks against executive excesses and legislative digressions. “Recently the court wished away a substantial challenge to the highly controversial Central Vista project on the specious ground that in policy matters, the Supreme Court will not intervene. Are the farm laws or their repeal not a policy matter?” he asked. According to Dave, the apex court’s Tuesday order also raises concerns from the perspective of the independence of the committee. The bench suggested the names of the committee members: the parties were not consulted, unlike normal procedure. “How the court came across the four names is in itself a serious question. The four members are respected and experts in their respective fields but they not only supported the farm laws (in the recent past) but some of them had criticised the farmers’ agitation. Should the court constitute a committee that is so biased? Therefore, the entire exercise can serve no purpose other than give a report to the court supporting the laws as per the proclaimed views of the members,” he said. Dave contended that the court should have selected fiercely independent members if it was serious about resolving the issue. “If any high court or the government did this, the Supreme Court would have struck down the committee on asking. So why the Supreme Court did so is unfathomable.” Dave referred to a possible long-term impact. “The Supreme Court orders really seek to put the controversy in cold storage as the petitions challenging the validity and raising substantial questions will not be heard now for a long time,” he said. The senior lawyer felt that the new farm laws were unconstitutional prima facie, considering that agriculture is a state subject in list II of the Seventh Schedule of the Constitution. Parliament cannot legislate on it. “Powers under the concurrent list to legislate in respect of food cannot include the subject matter as included in the two farm laws. In pith and substance, the farm laws deal squarely and directly with agriculture, making them seriously open to challenge,” he said. Dave said some of the petitioners before the apex court, seeking eviction of the protesting farmers, were not bona fide and were part of an attempt to stop the agitation. The Supreme Court should have gone into the bona fides of the petitioners, more so when the CJI had been repeatedly saying that the right to protest was inherent in citizens and that he did not want to stifle that. Further, he argued, none of the petitioners or even the government, much less the farmers, had sought a stay on the legislation or the formation of a committee. Yet the Supreme Court chose to pass orders staying the laws and setting up the committee. Dave said that on Monday, when the hearing began, the bench had come with a clear mind to grant a stay and constitute the committee, as was evident from the observations made by the CJI. “This was a highly sensitive and political issue and, therefore, for the court to have adopted this course was unusual and surprising,” Dave said. He underlined that his requests for an adjournment to elicit the views of the farmers had been ignored. He said that at one stage even senior advocate Harish Salve, appearing for a petitioner who wanted the protesting farmers evicted, felt that Dave’s request for adjournment should be accepted, considering the number of unions involved. This was also the request of attorney-general K.K. Venugopal and solicitor-general Tushar Mehta. Yet, Dave said, the bench chose to proceed with its orders. Dave expressed surprise that the Supreme Court had conducted a hearing on Tuesday despite Monday evening’s order clearly stating that “List the matters tomorrow ie, 12-01-2021, for orders”. “Thus, the matters were not fixed for hearing and counsel like Mr Prashant Bhushan for the newly added protesting unions did not have any clue or information that matters were kept for hearing. Even the senior counsel appearing for farmers, including myself, were clearly under the impression that matters were kept only for orders,” Dave said. For orders or judgments, senior counsel rarely appear. Even an advocate-on-record may or may not be present. “Therefore, I and my colleagues did not remain present. We did not get any intimation from the registry before the start of the hearing on Tuesday or even during the hearing that matters will be or were being heard and that we should appear through video link,” Dave said. “It is, therefore, astonishing that the Supreme Court heard the matters on merit despite the above position and, sadly, even commented on our absence and, in fact, went on to note the same in the order passed thereafter. “With greatest respect to the court, the procedure followed was not normally accepted procedure and the court should have been more careful to find out why we had not joined the hearing. “I must say that had we known that the matters were to be heard, I and my colleagues would have happily joined the proceedings and assisted the court. I must say it was very surprising that in these circumstances the learned solicitor-general, Mr Salve and others joined the proceedings and made submissions on merits when clearly matters were fixed for pronouncement of orders.” Dave added: “The entire procedure followed by the court was unusual and contrary to rules, practices and conventions. It would have been appropriate even if counsel who appeared had pointed out that perhaps we did not appear because of the nature of the listing and could have requested that the matter be kept on Wednesday to enable us to appear. “In fact, the honourable court itself should have done so if it was keen at all to hear our views on the suggestions proposed — there was no tearing hurry to pass the orders on Tuesday itself. Sadly, the court did not do so, which is deeply disappointing.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-414
14-01-2021||India||Narendra Modi is an 'arrogant monarch': Protesting farmers||In the eyes of farmers sitting on dharna against the new farm laws in the biting cold of Delhi, Prime Minister Narendra Modi is an “arrogant monarch” — like an Aurangzeb or a Ravan. “Ghamand toh Ravan ka nahi chala, toh Modi kya cheez hai (Even Ravan got undone by arrogance; what’s Modi before him)?” says an ageing farmer, among a group of around a dozen sharing a hookah at the Singhu border. Farmers have been sitting at Delhi’s borders since the last week of November to press the Modi government to repeal three agriculture laws that it steamrollered through Parliament, which the protesters believe will benefit large corporate buyers and reduce them to labourers on their own land. But the government has been unmoved, even after the deaths of more than 70 protesters. “Bharosa karke vote diya tha. Iska matlab jo chahe woh kanoon laane ke liye thhode diya tha,” says another farmer in the group. “We trusted him and gave him our vote, but not to enact any law he wants.” The duty of a good ruler is to talk to people and do what is good for them and not thrust a law that would help the corporates, he added. All the farmers in this group, from the Jat community in Haryana, said they had voted for Modi in the last general election. The BJP has cited its election victories to say it has the mandate to bring the laws. The party and the Prime Minister say the laws are good for farmers. “Yeh kanoon kisan ka nahi, Adani, Ambani ka bhala karega. Humko Modi ji ka ‘achchha kanoon’ nahi chahiye. (These laws will benefit Adani and Ambani, not farmers. We don’t want Modiji’s ‘good laws’),” a third farmer in the group said. If Ravan is who the Prime Minister reminded the group from Haryana of, it is the Mughal emperor Aurangzeb that the farmers from Punjab spoke of. They recalled how the ninth Sikh guru, Guru Tegh Bahadur, had fought against Aurangzeb’s persecution. Modi had last month gone to Gurdwara Rakab Ganj, built in Delhi at the site where the mortal remains of Guru Tegh Bahadur were consigned to flames after he was beheaded on Aurangzeb’s orders. The Prime Minister was trying to strike a chord with the Sikh farmers, who are at the forefront of the protest that now includes peasants from across the country. Modi spoke of how the Sikh gurus’ sacrifice had helped protect the country’s “civilisation and culture” from “tyrants” and “tormentors” — a reference to the Mughals, especially Aurangzeb. Unimpressed, the protesting farmers are saying that in taking on the Modi government, they are following in their Gurus’ footsteps to fight for a just cause. “The tyrants wanted the Sahibzade to renounce their faith,” Modi had said, referring to the young grandsons of Guru Tegh Bahadur immured in a wall by the Mughals for refusing to convert. At Singhu border, Modi is being seen as the persecutor now out to malign the Sikh protesters as “Khalistanis” and to subjugate them. Babek Singh, president of the welfare organisation Nanak Shahi Sansar, was heard telling the crowd from a dais that after targeting Muslims and Christians, the Modi government was now going after the Sikhs. “Hum pehle nahi dabe, ab bhi nahi dabenge (We couldn’t be subjugated before, we won’t be subjugated now),” he said, triggering cheers. Asked later why he felt that the Sikhs were being victimised, Babek referred to BJP leaders’ slander of the agitators as “Khalistani” and “anti-national”. “You call us Khalistanis and anti-national.... The Sikh community has sacrificed so much for this land and you question their patriotism?” he said, voice trembling in anger. “What else is this but an effort to suppress us? This turban is a symbol of our faith in this land. We have shed our blood to protect it....” A young Sikh, Paramjit, who was waiting to donate blood outside a temporary hospital set up by unitedsikhs.org, too felt that the community was being targeted. “Sikhs can never be subjugated,” he said, recalling Indira Gandhi’s military operation inside Golden Temple and comparing Modi to her. Paramjit accused Modi of trying to divide people on the basis of religion. Pointing to the queue of would-be blood donors, he said: “But this blood will be given to Delhi’s hospitals and will help save lives irrespective of religion.” Some 20 metres from the hospital, on a highway teeming with protesters, stood a food stall put up by the Muslim Federation of Punjab, Malerkotla. A small sign at the stall read: “Aapki aankhon par parda hai godi media, ye biryani nahi zarda hai (Your eyes are blinkered, lapdog media. This is not biryani but zarda).” Tariq Manzoor, who was manning the stall, said the sign had to be put up after some media outlets claimed that biryani — a meat-and-rice delicacy and perceived by some as a symbol of Muslim cuisine — was being served at the protests. He said the stall was actually serving a vegetarian sweet rice dish called zarda. “Our organisation regularly sets up langars (free public kitchens). We respect the sanctity of a langar and never serve non-vegetarian food,” Manzoor said. He said that after tarring Muslims, the pro-government media was out to besmirch Sikhs. “The way they tarnished Shaheen Bagh (the women-led protest against the new citizenship law), they are doing it here now,” he said. But Manzoor added: “Terming Muslims ‘traitors’ is easy but it can’t be done with Sikhs.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-415
14-01-2021||India||In the dark on Union health ministry's vaccine division policy||Aircraft have ferried the two Covid-19 vaccines — Covishield from Pune and Covaxin from Hyderabad — across the country ahead of the vaccination campaign starting on Saturday, but the Union health ministry has not disclosed the criteria for which vaccine goes where. Covishield vials from the Pune-based Serum Institute of India have arrived in Calcutta, Delhi, Mumbai and Thiruvananthapuram, among other cities, while Covaxin vials from the Hyderabad-based Bharat Biotech have reached Bangalore, Chennai, Delhi, Lucknow and Patna, among 11 cities, the companies said. The health ministry, however, has remained silent about the criteria adopted to determine how the initial orders of 11 million doses of Covishield and 5.5 million doses of Covaxin would be quantitatively distributed across states or within states. Sources in the Serum Institute and Bharat Biotech said the companies do not have information about the criteria used to direct their vaccines to specific destinations. Multiple queries from this newspaper to senior health officials seeking clarity on the criteria have remained unanswered. Medical experts have underlined that pre-determined destinations for both vaccines would be critical because, as the health ministry itself has also stressed, both vaccines are needed in two doses, 28 days apart and the vaccines cannot be interchanged. “A recipient would need to get the exact same vaccine as the first and the second dose,” said an expert who is advising the Bengal government’s vaccination campaign. “Under these circumstances, criteria for vaccine apportionment need to be very clear.” But, the expert said, the numbers of doses of each vaccine supplied may guide apportionment policy. For instance, Bengal which has an estimated 600,000 population of healthcare workers — the earliest priority group to receive the vaccines — has received nearly 700,000 doses of Covishield and only a few thousand doses of Covaxin. “With nearly 700,000 Covishield and only a couple of thousand Covaxin, the programme is almost entirely likely to rely on Covishield,” the expert said. “If we have very small numbers of Covaxin, it would be difficult to decide which specific site they would be sent to.” Health ministry officials have asserted that both vaccines are safe and generate immune responses against the novel coronavirus, but sections of doctors have expressed concern that while Covishield was approved on the basis of efficacy data from other countries, Covaxin’s efficacy is yet to be proven. A senior official in the Indian Council of Medical Research said vaccine recipients should view both the vaccines as “equal”. Covishield has not been tested for efficacy in India, the official underlined. “Both vaccines have been shown as safe and immunogenic — thus they should be viewed as equal,” he said. The first stage of the vaccination campaign will seek to immunise 10 million healthcare workers and 20 million frontline workers, while the second stage will vaccinate 270 million people above 50 years of age and those below 50 with chronic health disorders. The health ministry has asked states to cap the average number of immunisations per day at each vaccination site to 100 and try to gradually increase the number of sites. Health ministry officials on Wednesday did not respond to queries about how many sites would be active on January 16.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-415
14-01-2021||India||Protesting farmers who broke the stereotype ||The powerful movement against the new farm laws that appears to have jolted the domineering Narendra Modi government has also busted stereotypes about the farmers’ image, provoking sections of the ruling party and the media to wonder how they were wearing jeans, using smartphones, speaking English and eating pizza. There are thousands of young men at all protest sites on Delhi’s borders with different states who are qualified enough to pursue professional careers elsewhere but opted for farming instead as their livelihood. Jagjit Singh of Dhumkheda village at Udham Singh Nagar in Uttarakhand who has been picketing at the Ghazipur border for the past 15 days is a case in point, a typical example of an educated professional leaving the comforts of urban life to toil in the fields. An MBA, Jagjit had a cosy job at a reputed multinational pharmaceutical company but took the difficult decision of shifting to his village in 2017 when his ailing father was unable to look after the farms. Asked why he did not lend his farms to somebody else, Jagjit said: “There were two reasons. One, farming has been a traditional family occupation and my father did not want to abandon that. Two, I wanted to use my management skills to do something innovative in farming. I thought that by using scientific knowledge and starting other activities such as poultry farming, we could really make it big.” He added: “Prime Minister Modi promised to double farm incomes. He often talked about Ek Bharat, Shresth Bharat (One India, best India). We thought he was sincere and a great India would mean equal facilities everywhere. But I gradually realised how difficult farming is and also discovered Modi’s hollow rhetoric was meant for winning elections, not for improving farmers’ lives. “Our financial condition has worsened over the past few years. Our relatives are living outside and they have already started calling us. I, too, would like my children to settle somewhere else, Canada or New Zealand.” Jagjit’s father managed to sustain the family of four daughters and a son with his five-acre plot but the fears of losing that asset has gripped them, apart from agriculture becoming much less profitable now. One of the reasons why Jagjit left his job to settle in his village was the love for his land and his father’s sense of pride in being a successful farmer. “But now I do share the concerns of my fellow farmers about the ownership of our land and the future of farming after a corporate takeover. Such drastic changes shouldn’t have been made without extensive consultations. The way the ordinances were passed amidst the lockdown did create suspicion in our minds,” he said. Jagjit, who owns a motorcycle, doesn’t have a tractor of his own. But there are other comforts — a much better house in his village than the rented accommodation that he had in Delhi, apart from fridge, television, washing machine and smartphones. While his son is very small, his daughter goes to school. Jagjit dreams of sending both the children abroad for studies. To fulfil that dream, he is willing to work harder but is deeply disappointed because he sold paddy at Rs 1,200 per quintal a few days ago, which was lesser than last year’s Rs 1,600. The minimum support price for paddy is Rs 1,860. “Is that the way to double incomes?” Jagjit angrily asked, wondering why diesel was selling at Rs 75 per litre when the crude oil price was low in the international market. His expansion plans, including the poultry farm, are on hold in this season of uncertainty. But what is worrying is the psychological crisis Jagjit, like most other farmers, is passing through at this critical juncture of his life. He reluctantly showed a WhatsApp message from a childhood friend that said: “You are going to join the Khalistanis or Kisan Morcha at Delhi border?” The movement will end sooner or later. But those who tried to weave this false narrative by describing farmers as Khalistanis, Maoists and Pakistani and Chinese agents, are unmindful of how the society is being poisoned by divisive politics.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-415
14-01-2021||India||SC asks to reopen anganwadi centres in non-containment zones by January 31||The Supreme Court on Wednesday asked the states and Union Territories to reopen anganwadi centres in non-containment zones by January 31 to ensure uninterrupted nutrition supply to children and pregnant and lactating mothers. A bench of Justices Ashok Bhushan, R. Subhash Reddy and M.R. Shah passed the directions while disposing of a PIL filed by social activist Dipika Jagatram Sahani mentioning that anganwadi centres in most states and Union Territories were closed since last March, when a lockdown was announced to curb the spread of the coronavirus. She said this had badly affected the critical nutritional requirements of vulnerable people. Anganwadi centres, operating in the country since 1975 under the Integrated Child Development Services scheme, were given statutory recognition in 2013. The beneficiaries who are registered with the anganwadi centres are provided supplementary nutrition, growth monitoring and counselling services, pre-school education, immunisation and referral services. Because of the pandemic-induced closure, the anganwadi centres have not been able to provide cooked food but have been sending dry rations to the homes of beneficiaries instead. “Inadequate supply of nutritious food to the citizens, more particularly to children and women, shall affect their health. Therefore, the same shall be in violation of their fundamental right to health/right to live with dignity guaranteed under Article 21 of the Constitution of India,” Justice Bhushan, who authored the judgment, said. The court said all anganwadi centres outside containment zones would have to reopen before January 31. The nod of the state disaster management authority would be needed to keep anganwadi centres outside containment zones closed. All states and Union Territories will have to ensure that nutritional standards as provided in Schedule II of the National Food Security Act, 2013, are fulfilled.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-415
14-01-2021||India||Labourer digs well to ease wife’s burden in Madhya Pradesh’s Guna||A labourer in Madhya Pradesh’s Guna has dug a well in his house in a fortnight for his wife who used to fetch water daily from a hand-pump located half-a-km away from their home at Guna. Bharat Singh, 46, a resident of Bhanpur Bawa village, had been concerned about his wife having to travel all the way to the hand-pump to fetch water for the daily needs of the family, comprising four members. One day, after being unable to get water because of a fault in the machine, his wife returned home sad and complained to him about it. Singh later told his wife that he will dig a well for her in the house itself, but she laughed at the idea, the labourer said on Wednesday. He then took it up as a challenge and to everyone’s surprise, dug a 31-feet-deep and 6-feet-wide well in just 15 days about two months back, Singh said. The well not only provides enough water for the daily needs of his family, which includes his aged mother, but also helps in irrigating their small tract of land where the family grows crops for their requirements, he said. Singh, who lives in a hut, said though he belongs to the Other Backward Classes and BPL (below poverty line) category, he had been unable to get a ration card for his family despite several efforts. Guna collector Kumar Purshottam appreciated Singh’s gesture and his caring nature towards his wife. He has directed officials of the zilla panchayat to provide benefits of the Pradhan Mantri Awas Yojna and various other government schemes to him for the betterment of his life, a panchayat official said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-415
14-01-2021||India||Plea to reinstate adultery law for military ||The Centre on Wednesday urged the Supreme Court to keep the armed forces outside the ambit of a 2018 judgment decriminalising adultery under the Indian Penal Code. The government argued that personnel of the army, navy and the air force often serve in inhospitable conditions and it had to be ensured that they “perform their duties without unnecessary concern for their families”. The Centre said discipline was the bedrock of the services and there would be “instability” within the forces if adultery was not made a criminal offence. The government said that when jawans and officers are posted in forward inhospitable areas, their families are taken care of at base camps by other officers, and the laws and rules providing for action for indulging in adulterous or promiscuous activities help in maintaining discipline. An armed forces member can be cashiered from service on grounds of unbecoming conduct for committing adultery with a colleague’s wife, the government said. A bench of Justices R.F. Nariman, Navin Sinha, and K.M. Joseph admitted the Centre’s plea and referred the matter to the Chief Justice of India for constituting an appropriate five-judge bench to examine the issue. In 2018, another five-judge constitution bench had struck down as unconstitutional IPC Section 497 that made adultery a criminal offence but exempted the women from punishment. The bench had said the adultery law discriminated between man and woman, besides being an intrusion into a citizen’s private life. It said the law dented the individuality of women and treated them as “chattel of husbands”. The apex court, in the September 2018 judgment, had, however, said that adultery would continue to be a ground for seeking divorce in matrimonial disputes. The court had also held that adultery was undoubtedly a moral wrong as far as the family and the spouse were concerned. The department of military affairs under the defence ministry, told the court on Wednesday through attorney-general K.K. Venugopal that the 2018 judgment could cause instability within the armed forces “…as defence personnel are expected to function in peculiar conditions, during the course of which many a time they have to stay separated from their families for long durations, when they are posted on borders or other far-flung areas or in areas having inhospitable weather and terrain”. “The support system to families is provided by the creation of ‘Field Area Family Accommodation’, where families are cared for by local formations and units while their spouses are away serving in forward locations, very often in combat situations. To ensure that all personnel perform their duties without unnecessary concern for their families, there is a system where frequent visits to families living away from their spouses by officers/JCOs, is a regular feature. “In view of the aforesaid judgment, there will always be a concern in the minds of the army personnel who are operating far away from their families under challenging conditions about the family indulging in untoward activity,” Venugopal submitted. According to the Centre, discipline is the bedrock of the work culture in the defence services and an essential ingredient for combat operations. Accordingly, the framers of the Constitution had authorised Parliament under Article 33 to restrict or abrogate certain fundamental rights in their application to the armed forces so as to ensure proper discharge of duties and maintenance of discipline. “…One has to remember that the armed forces exist in an environment wholly different and distinct from civilians. Honour is a sine qua non of the service. Courage, and devotion to duty, even at the risk of one’s life, is part of the unwritten contract governing the members of the armed forces,” the government said. The Centre argued that unlike in Section 497, the armed forces do not differentiate between a man and a woman officer if they are guilty of an offence. “…The army would equally proceed against a female subject to the Act if she enters into an adulterous/illicit relationship,” the government said. The government wanted the court to determine the following two questions: ⚫ Whether persons subject to the Army Act by virtue of Article 33 of the Constitution should continue to fall under the ambit of Section 497 of the IPC ⚫ Whether the promiscuous or adulterous acts of persons subject to the Army Act should be allowed to be governed by Army Act Sections 63 (good order and discipline) and 45 (unbecoming conduct) and the corresponding provisions of the Navy Act and the Air Force Act.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-415
14-01-2021||India||Delhi riots: raid on lawyer ‘illegal’ and ‘ominous’||Eminent jurists including a former Bombay High Court judge on Wednesday condemned the raid and police investigations against a Delhi lawyer whose firm has been representing several Delhi riot victims and accused. They alleged the search warrant was issued wantonly to secure illegal access to confidential lawyer-client communication on advocate Mehmood Pracha’s office computer. Pracha’s firm, Legal Axis, is handling around 150 riot cases, that is, about a sixth of the cases relating to the communal violence in February that killed 53 people. His clients include Gulfisha Fatima, who had protested against the new citizenship matrix and has been charged under the anti-terror law UAPA with inciting the riots. Police are investigating Pracha for allegedly coercing a witness to make a false statement, a claim the witness has denied. The police searched Pracha’s office on December 24 to examine his email outbox, and later charged him with obstructing their search. In a statement, retired Justice B.G. Kolse-Patil and Supreme Court lawyers Prashant Bhushan and Chander Uday Singh said that none of the conditions stipulated in Section 93 of the criminal procedure code for issuing search warrants had been met. “Why was it necessary to search his computers and information contained in it in order to get access to an email which is stated to have been sent to various authorities including the commissioner of police,” the statement said. “Obviously, therefore, the object of the search was to get hold of all the information in his computer systems which not only contained his personal and private information but in particular contained communications between him and his clients.” Attorney-client communication is protected under the Indian Evidence Act and the Bar Council of India Rules. “This illegal search is particularly ominous and sinister in light of the fact that Mr Pracha has been instrumental in exposing the Delhi police in its mala fide investigation in the Delhi riots and seeking accountability of its officers,” the statement said. Pracha has moved court against the raid, and the court has asked the police for video footage of the raid. Several Bar associations have spoken out against the raid. No member of the police has so far been charged with rioting despite several complaints and purported video evidence of police personnel torturing injured men and forcing them to sing the national anthem. One of the victims, 23-year-old Faizan, later died of his wounds. Justice Kolse-Patil told reporters that several lawyers planned to march from Delhi High Court to the Supreme Court on January 22 and submit letters to Chief Justice of India S.A. Bobde demanding action against errant police personnel and a magistrate who allegedly harassed Pracha. Justice Kolse-Patil was one of the organisers of the Elgaar Parishad event of 2017. Several academics and human rights activists are in jail custody in connection with the event, charged with conspiring with Maoists to incite caste clashes. The police did not respond to Wednesday’s statement. After the raid on Pracha, a police statement had said: “After a lot of patient persuasion, he allowed the investigating officers to inspect his email outbox where a part of the evidence being sought was located and necessary investigative formalities related to it were carried out. “Thereafter, he was requested to cooperate in locating the computer in which the incriminating documents, allegedly drafted by him/ on his instructions maybe found. However, he flatly refused to cooperate and said ‘you do it yourself’.... “Sh. Mehmood Pracha and his associates prevented the police team from executing the mandate of the hon’ble court, obstructed in the investigation and in the discharge of their lawful public duties.” The police have seized one of Pracha’s computers.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-415
14-01-2021||India||Cabinet expansion triggers resentment in Karnataka BJP ||A much-awaited cabinet expansion has triggered widespread resentment in the Karnataka BJP over the omission of some of the defectors who helped the party return to power nearly two years ago. While several defectors have been accommodated in earlier cabinet expansions, Congress turncoats N. Munirathna and Mahesh Kumathalli, and A.H. Vishwanath, who switched to the BJP from the JDS, were left empty-handed following Wednesday’s swearing-in. Veteran BJP lawmakers Umesh Katti, A. Angara, Aravind Limbavalli, Murugesh Nirani and C.P. Yogeshwar were among those sworn in as ministers. R. Shankar, an Independent who joined forces with the BJP on the promise of a cabinet berth, and M.T.B. Nagaraj, who had defected from the Congress, were also accommodated. “They say Munirathna and I face court cases and hence cannot be taken into the cabinet. But Yogeshwar is facing cheating cases. He is a fraud who has cheated many people by promising housing sites,” Vishwanath, who is a member of the Legislative Council, said. “Yogeshwar did not have to sacrifice anything. He used to carry our bags when we moved around and you make him a minister,” Vishwanath told reporters. “Is this about any blackmail plot? Has he got anything on you?” Vishwanath asked the chief minister, referring to B.S. Yediyurappa and Yogeshwar.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-415
14-01-2021||India||Govt misled SC on farm laws: Congress||The Congress on Wednesday said the Narendra Modi government had misled the Supreme Court by saying that intense and elaborate consultative processes had been conducted before enacting the three farm laws, condemning the “distortion of facts” as “fraudulent” behaviour. Wondering how the formation of a committee and a working group 20 years and 10 years ago, respectively, could be the basis for promulgating an ordinance, Congress spokesperson Abhishek Manu Singhvi said: “It is clear that there are serious attempts at prevarication, distortion, misrepresentation and misleading of the nation, the Supreme Court and all relevant stakeholders, apart from indulging in blatantly contumacious conduct. Not even perfunctory, much less any meaningful pre-legislative consultation was attempted, much less done by the Modi government.” Singhvi added: “In an affidavit filed in the Supreme Court on December 11, the government said — ‘this is being filed for the purpose of dispelling the erroneous notion that the protesters have peddled that the central government and Parliament never had any consultative process or examination of issues by any committee before passing of the laws in question’. The details given in the affidavit — events spanning 20 years — cannot be called pre-legislative consultation.” The Congress leader went on: “The only details given are references to the setting up of the so-called Guru Committee in December 2000, the Model APMC Act in 2003, the report of an empowered committee of some state ministers in 2013 and a working group on agricultural production in 2010. There is also a reference to the Draft Model Act of 2017, circulated to all states for adoption, titled ‘The State Agricultural and Livestock Marketing (Facility and Development) Act, 2017.” The Modi government came to power in 2014 and there were no drafts of the laws enacted through ordinances available for pre-legislative consultation in June 2020. The government claimed in the affidavit that the three farm laws had not been hurriedly passed but was a result of two decades of deliberations. Singhvi lamented that the government didn’t even spare the Supreme Court while constantly “fooling” the people of India. He recalled that the government did not claim to have conducted pre-legislative consultations in reply to RTI queries. He said: “On December 11, 2020, activist Anjali Bharadwaj sent these queries to the government under the RTI — ‘1. As per the decision taken in the meeting of the committee of secretaries held on January 10, 2014, regarding the pre-legislative consultation policy, every department/ministry is required to proactively place in the domain all proposed legislation for a minimum period of 30 days. Kindly provide information on procedure adopted to proactively disclose the drafts of the farm laws. The response on December 22 was — this CPIO (central public information officer) does not hold any record in this matter.’” According to Singhvi, Bharadwaj filed another RTI query on December 15, seeking information on the “dates of all consultations held to discuss the proposed laws prior to the promulgation of the ordinances in June 2020, copy of minutes of all meetings/consultations held to discuss the proposed laws, list of persons who attended each of the meetings/consultations held to discuss the proposed laws, list of experts and farmer groups with whom consultations were held on the proposed laws, names of states with whom consultations were held on the proposed laws and copy of comments/communications sent by the states”. The Congress leader said the answer again was “this CPIO does not hold any record in this matter”.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-415
14-01-2021||India||Cabinet nod to Rs 48,000-crore deal for 83 LCA (light combat aircraft)||The cabinet committee on security headed by Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Wednesday cleared a Rs 48,000-crore deal for 83 LCA (light combat aircraft) from defence PSU Hindustan Aeronautics Ltd for the Indian Air Force in the biggest-ever deal in the indigenous military aviation sector. Announcing the decision on Twitter, defence minister Rajnath Singh said the LCA-Tejas was going to be the backbone of the IAF fighter fleet in years to come. “This deal will be a game changer for self-reliance in the Indian defence manufacturing,” he added. “LCA-Tejas incorporates a large number of new technologies many of which were never attempted in India,” the minister said. “The HAL has already set  up second line manufacturing facilities at its Nasik and Bengaluru Divisions. Equipped with the augmented infrastructure the HAL will steer LCA-Mk1A production for timely deliveries to the IAF.” Sources in the defence ministry said the Indian Air Force was expected to sign a contract with HAL next month during India’s air show Aero India in Bangalore. “The deliveries of these 83 fighter aircraft will begin three-four years after the actual contract is inked next month,” a ministry official said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-415
14-01-2021||India||Sexual abuse case on leader in Uttar Pradesh||A BJP leader in Uttar Pradesh has been booked for sexually exploiting two minor girls and making objectionable videos. Ram Bihari, the vice-president of the city unit of the BJP in Jalaun district of the Bundelkhand region, had allegedly called the two girls, aged 16 years, to his home for domestic work. The girls alleged that they fell unconscious after drinking cold drinks Ram Bihari had offered them and were later sexually assaulted. The leader has been accused of filming the act. Imran Khan, the officer in charge of Konch police station, said: “Two minor girls have alleged that Ram Bihari sexually exploited and assaulted them. We have filed a case under Section 377 of the IPC and started a probe.” The section deals with “carnal intercourse against the order of nature with any man, woman or animal”. It carries a maximum punishment of life imprisonment and a minimum punishment of 10 years in jail. Ram Bihari is yet to be arrested. Police sources said they had found 320 videos of sexual assault of several women and girls in Ram Bihari’s laptop and mobile phone. “These videos may have been made by Ram Bihari. He has exploited many minor girls and women. The videos show that two women had gone to him to get their ration cards made but he sexually exploited them. He used to mix some intoxicant in cold drinks and offer women,” said an officer, requesting anonymity. “We will also press charges under Section 67 of the IT Act after analysing and preserving the electronic evidence,” the officer added. The section deals with “publishing materials that are lascivious or appeal to the prurient interest, tending to deprave or corrupt a person”. Ram Bihari, a retired Lekhpal, a revenue department official, who joined the BJP five years ago, denied the allegations against him. “I have been falsely implicated for political reasons,” he told reporters in Jalaun on Wednesday. Ramendra Singh, the district BJP president, said: “Ram Bihari had offered to resign from his post last week due to some other reason but the process was delayed because we are yet to find a replacement. If the allegations against him are proved, he will be expelled from the party.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-416
14-01-2021||India||Plane with 233 on board hits ice mound at Srinagar||A Delhi-bound IndiGo flight with 233 passengers on board apparently skidded off the frozen runway at Srinagar and hit a mound of ice on Wednesday, reigniting allegations that the Jammu and Kashmir administration has been sluggish in clearing snow from roads and vital installations amid the Valley’s harshest winter in over two decades. Although all the passengers and crew members are safe and the flight was held back after the 12.30pm accident while taxiing, panic gripped the passengers. The mercury had plunged to -7.8 degrees Celsius in Srinagar on Tuesday night, freezing its water bodies and turning roads into treacherous, slipper terrain. IndiGo said the Srinagar-Delhi flight was held back at the airport after “it came in close contact with the snow accumulated adjacent to the taxiway”. “Aircraft is held at Srinagar for further inspections,” the airline said in a statement. But pictures of the aircraft showed that its engine had hit a mound of accumulated snow. Airport staff were seen clearing the snow from underneath the aircraft. A man from Srinagar who was apparently on board the aircraft wrote on Facebook that passengers were “much terrified” after it hit the snow. He said all the passengers were safe. Srinagar airport was recently in the news after heavy snowfall lashed the Valley on January 3 and it took officials four days to clear the runways and make Kashmir’s only civilian airport operational for flights. Fresh snowfall again on Saturday disrupted flights. Many Netizens have complained that the airport authorities had not been fully clearing the snow, allegedly imperilling the lives of travellers. The airport authorities did not respond to calls from this newspaper. Complaints have been galore against Lt Governor Manoj Sinha’s administration after Kashmir witnessed heavy snowfall on January 3. The administration appeared to be slow in clearing snow from main roads, hospitals and other vital installations, not to talk of countless lanes and bylanes. At many places, patients struggled to reach hospitals and ambulances found it difficult to make their way to homes, compelling families to pick up shovels themselves to clear the snow. A delivery boy was seen riding a horse through snow-choked inner lanes of Srinagar’s old city this week to carry parcels. The problems have been accentuated this week with the Valley in the grip of intense cold. The reading of -7.8 degrees Celsius is the lowest in 26 years. Officials at the Srinagar meteorological department said the temperature on Tuesday night had matched that in January 2012, which was itself the lowest since 1995. The Dal Lake and other water bodies have frozen and at some places children could be seen playing on the thick sheet of ice.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-416
14-01-2021||India||In Kashmir’s stillness, hopes wither and houseboats sink||Habib Wangnoo scanned the silvery lake from the deck of his vacant houseboat hotel, remembering when he helped Mick Jagger out of a narrow, flat-bottomed canoe during the rock star’s 1981 visit to Kashmir. Jagger spent most of the next two weeks on the boat’s upper deck, Wangnoo recalled with a smile. The lead singer of the Rolling Stones strummed his black guitar and jammed with Kashmiri folk musicians as they watched the moonlight dance across the Himalayas. Today, Nagin Lake is desolate and quiet as a tomb, devoid even of the rowing touts who normally trawl the water. There are no tourists, no money and little hope. “In Kashmir, tourist industry money goes into every pocket from arrival to departure, everybody lives on it,” Wangnoo said. “And now, there is nothing.” Kashmir, the craggily beautiful region in the shadow of the Himalayas, has fallen into a state of suspended animation. Schools are closed. Lockdowns have been imposed, lifted and then reimposed. Once a hub for both western and Indian tourists, Kashmir has been reeling for more than a year. First, India brought in security forces to clamp down on the region. Then the coronavirus struck. The streets are full of soldiers. Military bunkers, removed years ago, are back, and at many places cleave the road. On highways, soldiers stop passenger vehicles and drag commuters out to check their identity cards. The scene — on display during a visit by The New York Times organised and tightly controlled by the Indian government — was reminiscent of the 1990s, when an armed insurgency erupted and the Indian government deployed hundreds of thousands of troops to crush it. Conflict in Kashmir has festered for decades. And an armed uprising has long sought self-rule. Tens of thousands of rebels, civilians and security forces have died since 1990. India and Pakistan have gone to war twice over the territory, which is split between them but claimed by both in its entirety. Now, as India flexes its power over the region, to even call Kashmir a disputed region is a crime — sedition, according to Indian officials. Wangnoo’s family had kept afloat during the darkest days of conflict. Through it all, visiting dignitaries, young adventure-seekers and Bollywood stars came to sunbathe on the top deck, amid the gardens of floating lotus and majestic chinar trees on the lake’s edge. This time, the seventh-generation business — wholly dependent on tourism, like so many others in Kashmir — is at risk of going under. Other houseboat owners have it even worse. The houseboats date to the British colonial era, a clever workaround to restrictions on foreign land ownership. But the elaborately carved cedar vessels are in ill repair and many are sinking. Hard-pressed owners are unable to pay for fresh caulk. Onshore, people shuffle in long woollen pherans, the traditional garments that cover them from their shoulders to their shins, sipping steaming cups of saffron and almond tea and passing small pots of burning coal to keep warm. Many say that the political paralysis is the worst it has ever been in Kashmir’s 30 years of conflict, and that people have been choked into submission. The Narendra Modi government stripped the region of its autonomy and statehood in August 2019, and promised the move — which cancelled Kashmiris’ inheritance rights to land and jobs — would unleash a flood of new investment and opportunity for the beleaguered region. Half a million soldiers came, imposing the strictest clampdown Kashmiris have ever seen. The money hasn’t arrived. People say they are more scared than they have ever been. Political leaders from the wealthiest, most respected families in Kashmir — former elected officials who had worked to reconcile Kashmiris’ call for independence with India’s desire for unity — were arrested and held for months. “You can do this to pro-India leaders, you can do it to anyone,” Mohamed Mir said from behind the counter of his father’s empty pashmina shop in downtown Srinagar. Kashmiris who try to vent their anger online against the Indian government are being slapped with terrorism charges. Many have been detained. Paramilitary forces appear suddenly. They arrived at the Khanqah of Shah-Hamdan, a Sufi shrine drenched in coloured glass and papier-mâché dedicated to Mir Sayed Ali Hamadni, the Persian saint and traveller who brought Islam to the Valley. In the evening, soldiers stood guard at the 6th-century Hindu temple on Gopadri Hill, Srinagar’s highest point, the Sankaracharya Temple, as muezzin calls to prayer from local mosques echoed across the still valley. Kashmir’s economy is on the brink of collapse. In the past, even when gun battles between security forces and militants became pervasive, international tourists continued to throng Kashmir’s ski slopes, houseboats and artisan pashmina and papier-mâché shops. Since Indian forces moved in, however, hardly any visitors have come. The absence of tourists hasn’t made a difference to Ghulam Hussain Mir, whose papier-mâché jewellery boxes, bowls and vases are largely sold to overseas customers online. But the Indian government’s communications blockade has hurt him. Internet, TV and phone service were shut off for months. When they were finally restored, the government permitted only the slowest mobile internet speeds to prevent video from reaching smartphones. Mir missed out on months of orders, and now demand for his wares in parts of the world still overcome with the coronavirus is muted. A 700-year-old mosque a short walking distance from Mir’s home and workshop remained open through civil strife and fires. But after the Indian government took control of Kashmir, it was closed for months. Its muezzin was locked out and prevented from giving the daily calls to prayer. “Fear is different and worse than at any time in the last 40 years,” Mir says, sitting cross-legged on a thickly carpeted floor in his workshop. A large hive of people support tourism on Dal Lake, which the Lonely Planet guide calls “Srinagar’s jewel”. Some of Srinagar’s poorest residents live deep in the centre of the lake, in an area partially filled in and paved, and connected by a network of uneven wooden walkways. Neighbourhoods are nicknamed after war-torn places like Kandahar and Gaza Strip. Normally, people find work driving water taxis, repairing boats, or selling tourists produce from their floating gardens. Now, except for the occasional odd job, there is no work. “Life is under embargo because tourism is the most important industry in the city,” said Ghulam Mohammad, 56. Devoid of activity, “it’s like a jungle now,” Mohammad said, looking out over the quiet lake. Except for a handful of Indian tourists, Wangnoo hasn’t had any guests for more than a year. Within six months, he estimates, he could lose the business and with it the dream of passing it down to the eighth generation, his sons Ibrahim and Akram, in their 20s. “We have worked hard over these generations, we have built up the reputation. At the end of the day, it’s all gone,” Wangnoo said. “Nobody has been a friend to Kashmir except God.” With no business to occupy him, one recent afternoon Wangnoo flipped idly through the hotel’s treasured guest book, landing on an exhortation to Sultan, his father, from Jagger: “May you always stay lite and brite.” Wangnoo clutched the collar of his dark brown pheran as dusk settled over Nagin Lake. “There’s no brightness,” he said. “It’s looking like dark days ahead.” New York Times News Service||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-416
14-01-2021||India||Rapes, IndiGo murder pile pressure on Nitish ||The Opposition in Bihar has called for chief minister Nitish Kumar’s resignation for his alleged failure to control law and order after three heinous crimes, including two gang rapes and murders, came to light on Wednesday. A 17-year-old deaf and mute girl, who had gone to graze her goats in Bihar’s Madhubani district, was allegedly held hostage and gang-raped by a few youths on Tuesday afternoon. The miscreants also tried to gouge out her eyes so that she would not be able to identify them. After she did not return to her village under Harlakhi police station area for hours, anxious family members and villagers started a search and found her lying unconscious, without clothes, in a grassy field. The girl was admitted to Darbhanga Medical College and Hospital late on Tuesday night. Doctors attending her said both her eyes have been severely damaged, but it was yet to be ascertained whether she had lost her eyesight completely. “We have registered an FIR and arrested three persons involved in the gang rape. They are the victim’s neighbours. Their clothes as well as those worn by the girl have also been recovered. The girl’s condition is improving,” Madhubani superintendent of police Satya Prakash told The Telegraph. In another incident, four persons allegedly gang-raped and burnt a minor girl in her house in a village under Sahebganj police station of Saraiyya subdivision in Muzaffarpur district. The accused took her body with them after she died. The victim was alone at her home as her family members had gone out. The incident took place on January 3, but the police did not register an FIR till January 12 in an alleged attempt to hide the crime despite the appeal and application of the victim’s father, who works in Punjab, but returned home on January 5 after learning about it. A few villagers, allegedly with vested interests, were also against the FIR. The incident came to light on Wednesday. The girl used to stay with her elder sister and grandparents in the village, and was being harassed by a few local youths for around a month. Her mother had passed away a few years ago. “We have started investigation in the case and detained three persons for interrogation. We are trying to recover the victim’s body,” Saraiyya sub-divisional police officer Rajesh Kumar Sharma told this newspaper. He also denied the allegation that the police were not giving importance to the case. In another incident, an IndiGo airlines station manager at Patna airport, Rupesh Kumar Singh, was shot dead in the basement of his apartment on Tuesday evening. The unidentified miscreants were lying in wait for him and allegedly fired 15 bullets at Rupesh, of which six hit the target. The police are still trying to ascertain the motive behind the killing. They have formed a special investigation team (SIT) to crack the case. The three crimes have shocked the people and also provided yet another opportunity to the Opposition to corner the government. It demanded the resignation of chief minister Nitish over his failure to control crime. “Nitish Kumar is tired and cannot carry forth Bihar. He and his double-engine government do not rest till hundreds of murders, rapes, and extortions take place. Crime has reached its extreme in the state. The chief minister just continues to review law and order at meetings. Prime Minister Narendra Modi should come here and enquire about the poor law and order situation,” RJD leader Tejashwi Prasad Yadav said. Tejashwi said the BJP was trying to wash its hands off the situation despite being in the government by blaming ally Janata Dal United (JDU). RJD leader Tej Pratap Yadav said: “The king of jungle raj, Nitish Kumar, should resign from the chief minister’s post immediately.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-416
14-01-2021||India||Bhubaneswar Municipal Corporation bans food distribution||The Bhubaneswar Municipal Corporation on Wednesday banned distribution of free food and clothes to the homeless people living on the roadside under its jurisdiction and urged all those who wanted to engage in charity to do so using the BMC platform. The step seems to have been taken to checkmate Bhubaneswar’s BJP MP Aparajita Sarangi’s Annapurna scheme under which food is being distributed to the poor for just Re 1. BMC commissioner Prem Chandra Chaudhary said: “No one is allowed to distribute free food and clothes to the poor and the homeless on the roadside. We request individuals and organisations to distribute free articles and food to the destitute at the shelter houses managed by the corporation. They can seek the BMC’s permission to do this.” The corporation also cautioned that those who violate the law will have to face legal consequences. The corporation, however, asserted that it wanted the city to be free of beggars. “If food and clothes are distributed on the roadside, the destitute will hesitate to go to shelter homes. It will thwart our purpose of making the city free of beggars,” said a senior BMC official. Sarangi launched her Annapurna scheme on January 7 and has been providing free food to the poor at a subsidised rate of Re 1. Ahead of the urban elections, the move is being seen as a clever strategy to influence the poor who are going to play a major role in the polls. It also poses a serious threat to the Odisha government’s Aahar scheme, under which meals are provided to the poor at Rs 5. Sarangi has maintained that she will go ahead with her Annapurna scheme. “Annapurna Yojana is not a free scheme. We will continue with the scheme,” she said. Under the Annapurna scheme, cooked food is provided at Re 1 to the poor and the hungry at railway stations, bus stands, temples and market places. The expenditure is borne by various organisations. This is not the first time that Sarangi, a former BMC commissioner herself, has clashed with the urban body. Last October, the BMC had locked her office here citing violation of Covid-19 guidelines. After Sarangi challenged the order and produced proof of Covid guidelines being violated in the ruling BJD’s office and started doing her office work on the roadside, the corporation had unlocked her office immediately.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-416
14-01-2021||India||Bid to unravel Olive Ridley turtle mysteries||The movement of Olive Ridley turtles, which traverse thousands of sea miles to reach the Odisha coast, remains a mystery. “How do they reach Odisha waters?” and “Where do they go back after laying eggs on the state’s beaches?” — are questions to which both scientists and environmentalists have been seeking answers for quite some time. The Odisha forest department had sought to unravel these mysteries by tagging these endangered turtles. The exercise of tagging to track their movement in the sea was also undertaken in 1994-96. Back then, state government officials had tagged nearly 8,000 Olive Ridley turtles. Now the exercise is being undertaken again in collaboration with the Zoological Survey of India (ZSI), with the department deciding to tag 30,000 turtles this time. The process began in the Berhampur forest division on Tuesday. Berhampur divisional forest officer Amlan Nayak told The Telegraph: “Earlier, the Wildlife Institute of India and the Zoological Survey of India had been entrusted with the task of tagging turtles. But we began the exercise in collaboration with the ZSI on Tuesday. We have tagged six turtles so far, of which two are males and four females.” The tags are uniquely numbered and have details such as the name of the organisation, emails, etc. Nayak said: “We often wonder where do the turtles go after laying eggs at the mouth of the Rushikulya river and whether the same turtles return to the same beach every year or do they move to other suitable nests for laying eggs. Hopefully, the tagging of turtles will help us get some answers. Once they reach any coast in any part of the world and if any officials find them, they will get back to us and inform about their movement.” State wildlife conservation officer Samyak Samantra told this newspaper: “During the 1996 tracking of Olive Ridleys we had come to know that these turtles are different from those living on the Costa Rica coast in the Pacific Ocean. Now this time, we are focusing on whether there is any change of migration pattern in the Olive Ridleys or whether their food habits have changed over the years. Twenty-five years is a long time. This will help in finding the extent of travel and location of the turtles after congregation, nesting for further research on their behaviour. There is a dynamic ecosystem inside the sea. How have they adjusted to life? Hopefully, we will be successful in our efforts.” Every year during winter, the Olive Ridley turtles come to lay eggs at different places along the Odisha coast. The nesting exercise takes place on a vast stretch from Gahirmatha in Kendrapara, the Debi rivermouth in Puri to the Rushikulya rivermouth in Ganjam district, covering a distance of nearly 300km out of the 470km-long coastline of the state. Nearly 2crore Olive Ridley turtles visit the Odisha coast every year. In order to ensure the smooth movement of the Olive Ridley turtles in the sea and on the beaches, the state government every year imposes a ban on sea fishing in accordance with Sections 2, 4 and 7 of the Orissa Marine Fishing Regulation Act (OMFRA), 1982, and provisions of the Wildlife Protection Act, 1972. “The movement of fishing vessels disturbs the mating and breeding of the turtles. A large number of turtles are killed by the trawlers and gill nets,” said a senior official. The ban on fishing begins in November 1 and lasts till May 31 in the areas of turtle nesting zone, particularly at the Gahirmatha marine sanctuary and the Debi and Rushikulya rivermouths. No one is allowed to go fishing upto 20km of the coastline in these areas.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-416
