15-01-2021||India||Defence Minister unveils India’s first indigenously developed driverless Metro car||Defence minister Rajnath Singh on Friday unveiled the country’s first indigenously designed and developed driverless Metro car at the BEML manufacturing facility Bengaluru on Friday. The minister, who visited the facility, said he was proud of the good work the team of engineers and technicians are doing at Bengaluru-headquartered BEML. “They are the real warriors of Atmanirbhar Bharat, taking India ahead,” he said. According to BEML, state-of-the-art driverless metro cars, being manufactured at the company’s Bangalore Complex, are made up of stainless steel body with a capacity of carrying 2280 passengers in six-cars Metro train-set. BEML bagged a total order of 576 cars for Mumbai Metropolitan Region Development Authority (MMRDA)’s MRS1 project and the supply is scheduled progressively up to January 2024. BEML recently opened its Depot office at Charkop Metro Depot, MMRDA, Mumbai for commissioning, testing and round-the-clock services for driverless Metro cars. Secretary (Defence Production) Raj Kumar IAS, Secretary (Defence Production) and BEML Limited Chairman and Managing Director, Deepak Kumar Hota, were among those present on the occasion. Hota said, “BEMLs foray into metro manufacturing has been a defining moment in the urban transportation scenario in India.” Singh virtually launched the Aerospace Assembly Hangar, situated within BEMLs Bangalore Complex, and unveiled first indigenously manufactured Tatra Cabin by BEML. At the BEMLs Bangalore Complex, Singh inspected the Rail Hangars, the array of BEML equipment on display (from its Defence & Aerospace, Mining & Construction and Rail & Metro Divisions) and the newly launched Industrial Design Centre.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-411
15-01-2021||India||Beginning of the end of Covid: Harsh Vardhan on vaccination drive||A day before a massive countrywide vaccination drive against coronavirus is set to commence, Union Health Minister Harsh Vardhan on Friday said the step is "probably the beginning of the end" of COVID-19. Speaking at the 146th India Meteorological Department (IMD) foundation day, he, however, cautioned that even if the vaccination drive is on, there should not be lowering of guard and people must follow COVID-19 appropriate behaviour. "Tomorrow is an important day...it is the last phase of the battle against coronavirus. I say, this is probably the beginning of the end of COVID now which is going to start tomorrow," Vardhan, who is also Science and Technology and Earth Sciences Minister, said. Prime Minister Narendra Modi will launch India's COVID-19 vaccination drive on January 16 via video conferencing. This will be the world's largest vaccination programme covering the entire length and breadth of the country and all preparations are in place to initiate the programme. A total of 3,006 session sites across all states and Union territories will be virtually connected during the launch and around 100 beneficiaries will be vaccinated at each session site on the first day. The vaccination programme is based on principles of priority groups to be vaccinated first. Healthcare workers, both in the government and private sectors, including Integrated Child Development Services (ICDS) workers, will receive the vaccine during this phase. The Drugs Controller General of India (DCGI) had earlier this month approved Oxford COVID-19 vaccine Covishield, manufactured by the Serum Institute, and indigenously developed Covaxin of Bharat Biotech for restricted emergency use in the country, paving the way for a massive inoculation drive.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-411
15-01-2021||India||Farm talks: deadlocked again, next meeting on January 19||Urging farmer unions to form an informal group among themselves to prepare concrete proposals to be discussed in the next meeting, Agriculture Minister Narendra Singh Tomar said detailed discussions took place at the ninth round of talks on Friday but could not reach a decisive stage. "Talks took place over three farm laws in a cordial atmosphere and detailed discussions took place on some issues, but couldn't reach a decisive stage," he said. "We suggested they can form an informal group of people who can understand the laws better and prepare some concrete proposals, detailing what are farmers' expectations and what clauses are problematic for them, which the government can consider with an open mind," the minister said. He further said the government is hopeful of discussions reaching some decisive stage at the tenth round of talks on January 19. On the direct talks between the government and farmers continuing despite the Supreme Court appointing a panel, Tomar said everyone is fully committed to the apex court and the government will also present its side before the committee panel when invited. "Unions want to continue the dialogue with the government and we have no problem with that. The SC-appointed panel will also work for the welfare of farmers," he said. Incidentally, the tenth round of talks has been scheduled for a day when a Supreme Court-appointed committee to resolve the impasse is also likely to hold its first meeting. A day before that, the apex court is likely to hear a petition against a tractor rally call given by the protesting farmers for the Republic Day on January 26. "Discussions happen at various platforms and a solution can emerge from anywhere... Our effort is to find a solution at the earliest through dialogue so that the farmers' protest ends. Farmers are sitting in cold weather amid the threat of Covid-19 and the government is concerned about that also and is therefore engaging with farmers with an open mind," Tomar said. The minister said the government will also present its side before the SC-appointed panel whenever it is asked to do so. Protesting farmer unions stuck to their demand for a complete repeal of three contentious farm laws at their ninth round of talks with three central ministers but while the government asked them to be more flexible in their approach and expressed willingness for necessary amendments, as the two sides decided to meet again on January 19. Farmer leader Joginder Singh Ugrahan told reporters after the meeting that the unions urged the government to repeal the three laws, but the Centre was unwilling to do so. "We decided to meet again on January 19 at 12 pm," he said. Ugrahan said the union leaders also raised the issue of NIA raids on transporters in Punjab who are supporting farmers' protests and were providing logistic support for the agitation. At the meeting that lasted for nearly five hours, including a lunch break, farmers unions said they are committed to continuing holding direct talks to resolve the over-one-month-long deadlock over three agri laws, even as a committee has been formed by the Supreme Court to resolve the deadlock. In his opening remarks, Agriculture Minister Narendra Singh Tomar urged farmer leaders to be flexible in their approach as has been done by the government. Besides Tomar, Railways, Commerce and Food Minister Piyush Goyal and Minister of State for Commerce Som Parkash were part of the government side talking with representatives of around 40 farmer unions at the Vigyan Bhawan here. "Both the government and farmer unions have reaffirmed their commitment to continue with the direct dialogue process," All India Kisan Sangharsh Coordination Committee member Kavita Kuruganti, who is part of the meeting, said. "In his opening remarks, Tomar ji said you keep saying that the government is adamant and making it an issue of ego, even though we have accepted several demands. Don't you think you should be flexible and not stick to one single demand of repealing the laws," said Baljit Singh Bali of Punjab Kisan Morcha. Farmer leader Darshan Pal said there was a good discussion on all three laws. "There is a possibility of some resolution. We are positive," he added. Another leader Rakesh Tikait said: "Government has told us that the solution should be found through dialogue and not a court. Everyone is of the same views. There is a possibility of some solution." Thousands of farmers, mainly from Punjab, Haryana and western Uttar Pradesh, are protesting at various border points of Delhi for over a month now against the three laws. On January 8, the eighth round of meeting had remained inconclusive as the Centre ruled out repealing the three contentious laws claiming nationwide support for the reforms. However, farmer leaders had said that they were ready to fight till death and their 'ghar waapsi' would happen only after 'law waapsi'. In the sixth round held on December 30 last year, some common ground was reached on two demands -- decriminalisation of stubble-burning and continuation of power subsidies. Enacted in September 2020, the government has presented these laws as major farm reforms aimed at increasing farmers' income, but the protesting farmers have raised concerns that these legislations would weaken the minimum support price (MSP) and "mandi" (wholesale market) systems and leave them at the mercy of big corporations. The government has maintained that these apprehensions are misplaced and has ruled out a repeal of the laws. The Supreme Court on January 11 had stayed the implementation of the three laws till further orders and appointed a four-member panel to resolve the impasse. Bhartiya Kisan Union president Bhupinder Singh Mann, however, on Thursday recused himself from the committee. Shetkari Sanghatana (Maharashtra) president Anil Ghanwat, International Food Policy Research Institute's Pramod Kumar Joshi and agriculture economist Ashok Gulati are the other three members on the panel. Tomar said the meeting with farmers unions was cordial and all three laws were discussed, while there was a detailed discussion on the Essential Commodities (Amendment) Act. "During the discussion, farmers expressed their views and our minister (Goyal) also shared the details and tried to address their concerns. But the discussion did not reach to a conclusion. After that, the government and union mutually decided to meet again on January 19 at 12 noon," he said. The minister said he hopes that unions will take forward the talks based on today's discussion. "We have also suggested they form an informal group of those who can talk properly about the laws, about expectations from the government and also about provisions of the laws that they feel are against farmers. If they discuss all these and come out with a draft of concrete proposals then the government is ready to discuss that with an open mind," he said. Tomar said the government has understood farmers' apprehensions in the course of several rounds of discussion so far and had expressed its willingness to address those apprehensions and a written proposal was also sent to unions. "But they didn't accept the proposal and therefore the discussions are happening... I hope that we will move forward towards finding a solution," he said. On protests held by Congress party across the country and allegations levelled by Rahul Gandhi against the government with regard to the farm laws, Tomar said, "The entire Congress party also laughs at and makes fun of Rahul Gandhi's statements and action." "I want to tell him through the media that they had promised to undertake these reforms in their 2019 election manifesto. If he doesn't remember, he can read his manifesto again. If it is there in the manifesto, then Rahul Gandhi and Sonia Gandhi should come before the press and make it clear if they were lying then or are lying now," he said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-411
15-01-2021||India||Rahul levels charges at PM, says he does not respect farmers||Prime Minister Narendra Modi does not respect farmers and wants to tire out those protesting against the Centre's new agri laws, Congress leader Rahul Gandhi alleged on Friday. He also said that the talks that are being held with the protesting farmer leaders are part of the government's delaying tactics. Farmers will not relent till the laws are repealed, said Rahul Gandhi at Jantar Mantar, where he along with Congress general secretary Priyanka Gandhi Vadra joined party MPs in their demonstration against the legislations. The former Congress president's remarks come on a day when the government is meeting protesting farmer unions for the ninth time to break the over-a-month-long deadlock on the three new agri laws. "The talks are being held only to delay. PM Modi thinks he has the power and will tire the farmers out, but he is mistaken. Narendra Modi does not have basic respect for farmers. He does not even care if over 100 farmers die. He thinks he has the power and the protesting farmers will tire out after some days, but they will not relent," Rahul Gandhi told reporters. Thousands of farmers, mainly from Punjab, Haryana and western Uttar Pradesh, are protesting at various border points of Delhi for over a month now against the laws. Rahul Gandhi said this agitation has just started and the government will have to take back the laws. "The farm laws will have to be repealed. They (the government) do not know the strength of farmers, they will not relent. PM Modi does not understand this. Had he understood this, the government would have taken back the laws today itself," he said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-411
15-01-2021||India||Construction work of new Parliament building begins||The construction work of the new Parliament building started on Friday, over a month after Prime Minister Narendra Modi laid the foundation stone for the project under the government's ambitious Central Vista redevelopment plan. The new Parliament building will have a triangular shape and is expected to be completed by the 75th anniversary of India's independence in 2022. The government plans to hold the monsoon session of Parliament in 2022 in the new building. "The construction work of the Parliament building has started," an official said. PM Modi had laid the foundation stone for the new Parliament building on December 10 last year. Earlier this week, a 14-member heritage panel gave its approval to the new Parliament building while also giving the go-ahead to the Central Vista redevelopment project. The Supreme Court had asked the Centre to seek prior approval from the panel and other relevant authorities before starting the construction of the new building. The construction work could not start earlier as the government had assured the Supreme Court that no construction or demolition work would commence till the apex court decided the pending pleas on the issue. The new building is being constructed by Tata Projects Ltd. The project is estimated to cost Rs 971 crore. Tata Projects Ltd. said despite the 35-day delay in the commencement of the construction work, it is confident that it will be able to deliver the project on or before time. "Our plans of action are already in place to accelerate the schedule by augmenting resources like skilled manpower and formwork etc," said Sandeep Navlakhe, vice president and business unit head of Tata Projects Ltd. "Our reinforcement required to be placed in the raft and walls are already made ready. Other off-site activities like procurement of stone for external cladding, MEP LLEs, carpets, etc. happened during these 35 days. We are more than confident that we will be able to deliver this building to the nation on or before time," he said. The new structure will come up in front of the existing Parliament that was built nearly 94 years ago at a cost of Rs 83 lakh at that time and would eventually be turned into a museum. The new Parliament building will house larger Lok Sabha and Rajya Sabha halls with capacities of 888 seats and 384 seats to accommodate an expanded Parliament after the freeze on its expansion lifts in 2026. The Lok Sabha Hall will also have an additional capacity, up to 1,272 seats, to host joint sessions. According to the plan, provisions will be made in furniture for smart displays and biometrics for ease of voting with an intuitive and graphical interface, digital language interpretation and recording infrastructure to produce real-time metadata, programmable microphones that put the control of managing the house with the Speaker. Besides the new Parliament building, the redevelopment of the Central Vista -- the nation's power corridor -- envisages a common central secretariat, revamping of the 3-km Rajpath from Rashtrapati Bhavan to India Gate, new Prime Minister's Residence and Prime Minister's Office, and a new Vice-President Enclave.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-411
15-01-2021||India||Tomar asks farm leaders to be flexible in their approach as ninth round of talks continue||Three central ministers and farmers unions on Friday committed to continuing holding direct talks to resolve the over-one-month-long deadlock over three agri laws, with Agriculture Minister Narendra Singh Tomar urging farmer leaders to be flexible in their approach as has been done by the government. The ninth round of talks between protesting farmer unions and three central ministers got underway here on Friday afternoon and discussions were held on all the three laws before the lunch break. Besides Tomar, Railways, Commerce and Food Minister Piyush Goyal and Minister of State for Commerce Som Parkash are holding the talks with the representatives of around 40 farmer unions at the Vigyan Bhawan here. "Both the government and farmer unions have reaffirmed their commitment to continue with the direct dialogue process," All India Kisan Sangharsh Coordination Committee member Kavita Kuruganti, who is part of the meeting, said. The Supreme Court on January 11 had stayed the implementation of the three laws till further orders and appointed a four-member panel to resolve the impasse. "In his opening remarks, Tomar ji said you keep saying that the government is adamant and making it an issue of ego, even though we have accepted several demands. Don't you think you should be flexible and not stick to one single demand of repealing the laws," said Baljit Singh Bali of Punjab Kisan Morcha. Farmer leader Darshan Pal said there was good discussion on all three laws. "There is possibility of some resolution. We are positive," he added. Another leader Rakesh Tikait said: "Government has told us that solution should be found through dialogue and not court. Everyone is of the same views. There is possibility of some solution." Thousands of farmers, mainly from Punjab, Haryana and western Uttar Pradesh, are protesting at various border points of Delhi for over a month now against the three laws. Bhartiya Kisan Union president Bhupinder Singh Mann had on Thursday recused himself from the committee appointed by the apex court. Shetkari Sanghatana (Maharashtra) president Anil Ghanwat, International Food Policy Research Institute's Pramod Kumar Joshi and agriculture economist Ashok Gulati are the other three members on the panel. On January 8, the eighth round of meeting remained inconclusive as the Centre ruled out repealing the three contentious laws claiming nationwide support for the reforms. However, farmer leaders had said that they were ready to fight till death and their 'ghar waapsi' would happen only after 'law waapsi'. In the sixth round held on December 30 last year, some common ground was reached on two demands -- decriminalisation of stubble-burning and continuation of power subsidies. Enacted in September 2020, the government has presented these laws as major farm reforms aimed at increasing farmers' income, but the protesting farmers have raised concerns that these legislations would weaken the minimum support price (MSP) and "mandi" (wholesale market) systems and leave them at the mercy of big corporations. The government has maintained that these apprehensions are misplaced and has ruled out a repeal of the laws.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-411
15-01-2021||India||Rahul seeks support for campaign in favour of farmers, against fuel prices||Asking people to join the farmers' "satyagraha" against the Modi government, Congress leader Rahul Gandhi on Friday spoke out in support of the ongoing protests and against rising fuel prices in the country. The Congress is observing the day as Kisan Adhikar Divas and will take out protest marches in all state capitals. Participating in the "SpeakUpForKisanAdhikar" campaign of his party, Gandhi said on Twitter, "The country's farmers are holding a satyagraha against the arrogant Modi Government to win their rights." "The entire country today is raising its voice against the atrocities being committed on farmers and the rise in price a of petrol and diesel. You should also join this campaign and be a part of this satyagraha," he added in his Twitter post in Hindi. The party has backed the farmers' agitation and demanded a repeal of the Centre's three new farm laws. The "SpeakUpForKisanAdhikar" campaign was launched on a day the government and farmers are set to hold their ninth round of talks in a bid to end the deadlock.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-411
15-01-2021||India||More than 15,000 fresh Covid cases, 191 casualties in a day||India's Covid-19 caseload rose to 1,05,27,683 with 15,590 people testing positive for the infection in a day, while recoveries have surged to 1,01,62,738, according to Union health ministry data updated on Friday. The country's death toll increased to 1,51,918 with 191 new fatalities, the data updated at 8 am showed. The number of people who have recuperated from the disease surged to 1,01,62,738 pushing the national COVID-19 recovery rate to 96.53 per cent, while the COVID-19 case fatality rate stands at 1.44 per cent. The COVID-19 active caseload remained below three lakh. There are 2,13,027 active coronavirus infections in the country which comprise 2.02 per cent of the total caseload, the data stated. India's COVID-19 tally had crossed 20 lakh on August 7, 30 lakh on August 23, 40 lakh on September 5 and 50 lakh on September 16. It went past 60 lakh on September 28, 70 lakh on October 11, crossed 80 lakh on October 29, 90 lakh on November 20 and surpassed the one-crore mark on December 19. According to the Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR), 18,49,62,401 samples have been tested up to January 14 with 7,30,096 samples being tested on Thursday. The 191 new fatalities include 70 from Maharashtra, 19 from Kerala, 17 from West Bengal, 14 from Uttar Pradesh, 10 each from Chhattisgarh and Punjab, eight from Madhya Pradesh, six from Haryana, and four each from Delhi, Andhra Pradesh and Tamil Nadu. A total of 1,51,918 deaths have been reported so far in the country, including 50,291 from Maharashtra followed by 12,246 from Tamil Nadu, 12,155 from Karnataka, 10,722 from Delhi, 10,010 from West Bengal, 8,543 from Uttar Pradesh, 7,138 from Andhra Pradesh and 5,473 from Punjab. The health ministry stressed that more than 70 per cent of the deaths occurred due to comorbidities. "Our figures are being reconciled with the Indian Council of Medical Research," the ministry said on its website and added that state-wise distribution of figures is subject to further verification and reconciliation.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-411
15-01-2021||India||Cloudy weather push Delhi's temperature above 6 degrees Celsius||Delhi's minimum temperature rose to 6.7 degrees Celsius, a notch above normal, on Friday due to partly cloudy weather, the India Meteorological Department (IMD) said. However, "moderate" fog lowered visibility to 201 metres at Safdarjung and 300 metres at Palam in the morning, an IMD official said. "Dense" fog is predicted in parts of the city on Saturday. According to the IMD, "very dense" fog is when visibility is between 0 and 50 metres. In case of "dense" fog, visibility is between 51 and 200 metres, "moderate" 201 and 500 metres, and "shallow" 501 and 1,000 metres. On Friday, the Safdarjung Observatory, which provides representative data for the city, recorded a minimum of 2 degrees Celsius, five notches below normal. It was 3.2 degrees Celsius on Wednesday. Cold and dry northerly/northwesterly winds from the western Himalayas brought the minimum temperature down in Delhi on Thursday. The wind direction then changed to northeasterly. This, along with partly cloudy weather, resulted in an increase in the minimum temperature, Kuldeep Srivastava, the head of the IMD's regional forecasting centre said. On January 1, the city had recorded a minimum of 1.1 degrees Celsius, lowest for the month in 15 years. The city's air quality remained "severe" on Friday as well. The air quality index had entered the "severe" zone on Thursday due to the prevailing extremely unfavourable conditions for dispersion of pollutants, government agencies said. The city's air quality index (AQI) was 460 at 10 am. The 24-hour average AQI was 429 on Thursday. It was 354 on Wednesday, 293 on Tuesday and 243 on Monday. An AQI between zero and 50 is considered "good", 51 and 100 "satisfactory", 101 and 200 "moderate", 201 and 300 "poor", 301 and 400 "very poor", and 401 and 500 "severe". Srivastava said the wind speed has slowed down and the moisture in the air has made the pollutants heavier. The central government's Air Quality Early Warning System for Delhi said slow winds and ventilation conditions are extremely unfavourable for dispersion of pollutants. This will lead to further deterioration in air quality, the agency said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-411
15-01-2021||India||IMF: Farm laws a 'significant step forward', but needs social safety net||The IMF believes the farm bills passed by the Indian government have the potential to represent a significant step forward for agricultural reforms, but a social safety net is needed to protect those who might be adversely impacted during the transition to the new system, a spokesperson of the global lender said here. Gerry Rice, Director of Communications at the International Monetary Fund (IMF), said the new measures will reduce the role of the middlemen and enhance efficiency. "We believe the farm bills do have the potential to represent a significant step forward for agricultural reforms in India," Rice said at a news conference in Washington on Thursday. "The measures will enable farmers to directly contract with sellers, allow farmers to retain a greater share of the surplus by reducing the role of middlemen, enhance efficiency and support rural growth," he said. "However, it is crucial that the social safety net adequately protects those who might be adversely impacted during the transition to this new system," the spokesperson said responding to a question on the ongoing protests by farmers against the laws in India. This can be done by ensuring that the job market accommodates those that are impacted by the reforms, he said. And of course, the growth benefits of these reforms will depend, critically, on the effectiveness and the timing of their implementation, so need to pay attention to those issues as well with the reform," Rice said. Thousands of farmers, mostly from Punjab and Haryana, have been camping at several Delhi border points, demanding a complete repeal of the three farm laws and legal guarantee of minimum support price for their crops. Enacted in September last year, the three laws have been projected by the Centre as major reforms in the agriculture sector that will remove middlemen and allow farmers to sell their produce anywhere in the country. However, the protesting farmers have expressed their apprehension that the new laws would pave the way for eliminating the safety cushion of the Minimum Support Price (MSP) and do away with the "mandi" (wholesale market) system, leaving them at the mercy of big corporates.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-412
15-01-2021||India||Farmer's protest: Hot-potato committee lands in hot water||Bhupinder Singh Mann, a farm leader who had been picked by the Supreme Court to be part of a four-member committee to broker peace between the protesting farmers and the government, has apparently decided to recuse himself from the process. An unsigned statement in the name of Mann, former Rajya Sabha member and chairman of the All India Kisan Coordination Committee (AIKCC), an older collective of farmer unions than the All India Kisan Sangharsh Coordination Committee (AIKSCC) that is spearheading the agitation, was tweeted by his faction of the Bharatiya Kisan Union (BKU) on Thursday afternoon. Mann remained incommunicado through the day. Mann has reportedly been sacked from the BKU faction. While expressing solidarity with farmers and Punjab, the letter attributed to Mann does not make it clear whether this means he is changing his position on the three farm laws. Under the aegis of the AIKCC, he along with some other farmer groups had urged the government to stay the course but accept some amendments to the three laws. In the statement, the 81-year-old farmer union leader purportedly thanks the Supreme Court for nominating him to the committee. “... In view of the prevailing sentiments and apprehensions amongst the farm unions and the public in general, I am ready to sacrifice any position offered or given to me so as to not compromise the interests of Punjab and the farmers of the country. I am recusing myself from the committee and I will always stand with my farmers and Punjab,” the statement says. The choice of Mann along with the other three nominees to the committee announced on Tuesday had given rise to questions about its neutrality as all four members had been vocal advocates of the three new laws. Mann’s decision has now triggered calls for the others, particularly agricultural economist Ashok Gulati, to follow suit.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-412
15-01-2021||India||Covid vaccine fissures among scientists||Fissures have emerged in medical and scientific circles with many supporting the rollout of two vaccines but others questioning the use of one without efficacy data, two days before the start of India’s Covid-19 inoculation campaign. A group of 49 scientists and doctors on Thursday released a statement that cited the safety and capacity of the AstraZeneca-Oxford vaccine, called Covishield, and the home-grown vaccine from Bharat Biotech, named Covaxin, |to generate immune |responses. Two signatories told The Telegraph that the statement’s objective was to |affirm the signatories’ |support for the government’s plan to launch |the vaccination campaign with both jabs. “We’re in an extraordinary situation — a pandemic. The safety and immunogenicity have already been proven for both vaccines; both should be used,” said Narinder Mehra, a medical immunologist and former professor at the All India Institute of Medical Sciences, New Delhi. Health officials defending the government plan have cautioned that waiting for efficacy data amid a pandemic would be tantamount to disregarding the loss of lives. “You have to put faces on the numbers of the dead,” said Samiran Panda, head of the epidemiology division at the Indian Council of Medical Research. But 13 others, including six fellows of the Indian Academy of Sciences, have in an independent statement suggested that the government should have waited for efficacy data |before introducing |Covaxin into the |vaccination campaign. Prime Minister Narendra Modi will launch via videoconference at 10.30am on Saturday the nationwide campaign that will roll out with 3,006 vaccination sites across the country, each tasked with providing |vaccines to an average 100 people a day. A senior expert guiding the national vaccination strategy told this newspaper that Covishield and Covaxin should be and were being viewed as “equal” and would be treated thus as they get administered across the country. But health officials |have declined to explain |the criteria adopted to |determine which vaccine goes where amid the |constraint that the two-dose vaccines cannot |be interchanged. A public health expert advising a state government said on the condition of anonymity that the state had not received instructions on how to distribute the two vaccines. Amid the uncertainty, the Indian Medical Association has urged its 350,000 members to accept whatever vaccine they are offered. “Both vaccines have been evaluated by a subject expert panel — safety and immunogenicity are assured,” Johnrose Austin Jayalal, the IMA’s national president, told this newspaper. The statement by the 13 scientists has underscored the need for transparency before starting a vaccination programme. While acknowledging the safety and promising immunogenicity data for Covaxin, they said: “It is imperative that relevant data from the larger phase-3 (efficacy) trial become available before administering the vaccine to large numbers of people.” Among the signatories are Partha Majumder, president of the Indian Academy of Sciences; academy fellows Dipankar Chatterjee and V. Nagaraja from the Indian Institute of Science, Bangalore; Jyotsna Dhawan from the Centre for Cellular and Molecular Biology, Hyderabad; and Vidyanand Nanjundiah and H.A. Ranganath from the Centre for Human Genetics, Bangalore. Health officials have said the vaccine recipients would not have the option of choosing between the two vaccines, but some doctors have told this newspaper they are hoping to receive Covishield, which has demonstrated efficacy in studies outside India. Some doctors have questioned the timetable for the simultaneous release. The Serum Institute of India, which is manufacturing Covishield, has said it has already stockpiled 50 million doses. The government needs 60 million doses to vaccinate the estimated 30 million healthcare and frontline workers. “We need a 28-day gap between the first and second doses — the government could have vaccinated all 30 million with Covishield and waited for at least interim efficacy data to emerge for Covaxin by mid-March,” said a senior doctor in a Delhi hospital. “The decision is baffling.” Majumder and his co-signatories said providing a vaccine without adequate efficacy data could lead to “a false sense of security” among the recipients. “We are not being pessimistic; our concern is only the necessity of following essential safeguards in a transparent manner before releasing a vaccine for public use.” The following is the statement issued by the scientists in their personal capacities: We are scientists working in various institutions in India and are writing in our personal capacities. From press reports we have learnt that the administration of Covaxin and Covishield vaccines is starting in India. We express our concern about the inadequacy of publicly-available information on which the approvals to initiate the vaccine campaign have been issued by the national regulatory authorities. A greater degree of transparency prior to the start of the vaccination programme is essential. This is especially true for Covaxin, for which Phase-3 safety and efficacy data are not yet available. We appreciate the efforts that Bharat Biotech and ICMR have put in to develop a vaccine formulation which is said to have promising results in Phase 1/2 human trials on a small number of people. It is imperative that relevant data from the larger Phase-3 trial become available before administering the vaccine to large numbers of people. Providing a vaccine without adequate efficacy data can lead to a false sense of security among vaccine recipients. In addition, articulation of a clear and consistent policy of making publicly available relevant data, and the approval pathway adopted by the Government of India, is required for other vaccines in development to ensure rapid access to safe and efficacious vaccines both for our citizens and for the rest of the world. We are not being pessimistic; our concern is only with the necessity of following essential safeguards in a transparent manner before releasing a vaccine for public use. Yours sincerely, Partha P. Majumder, National Institute of Biomedical Genomics, Kalyani & Indian Statistical Institute, Kolkata VidyanandNanjundiah, Centre for Human Genetics, Bengaluru H.A. Ranganath, Centre for Human Genetics, Bengaluru Jyotsna Dhawan, Centre for Cellular and Molecular Biology, Hyderabad Dipankar Chatterji, Indian Institute of Science, Bengaluru Deepak Kumar Saini, Indian Institute of Science, Bengaluru Upendra Nongthomba, Indian institute of Science, Bengaluru Sohan Prabhakar Modak, Deccan Gymkhana, Pune Rahul Siddharthan, Institute for Mathematical Sciences, Chennai Ramray Bhat, Indian Institute of Science, Bengaluru Gopal Pande, 107 Kakatiya Apartments, Habsiguda, Hyderabad Analabha Basu, National Institute of Biomedical Genomics, Kalyani.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-412
15-01-2021||India||Ex-judge to PM: Accept mistake and repeal farm laws||The former Supreme Court judge, Justice Markandey Katju, on Thursday asked Prime Minister Narendra Modi to immediately repeal the three new farm laws through an ordinance and urged him to accept his “mistake” of hurrying the three laws through. “All human beings make mistakes. By doing this, far from losing face, you will be applauded. If you do it your popularity, far from going down, will soar,” Justice Katju wrote in a letter to Modi. He also suggested that a statutory farmers’ commission be set up to deal with farmers’ problems. Without such concessions, he contended, the protesting farmers’ plan to enter Delhi on Republic Day with their tractors and the likely police action could lead to another Jallianwala Bagh or massacres similar to Bloody Sunday in St Petersburg (January 1905) or 13 Vendémiaire in Paris (October 1795). “Bloody Sunday” refers to firing by the Tsar’s forces on unarmed demonstrators in St Petersburg on January 22, 1905. Estimates of the death toll range from around 100 to 4,000. On 13 Vendémiaire (first month in the French Republican Calendar) of Year 4 --- or October 5, 1795 --- revolutionary troops under Napoleon Bonaparte, then a general, quelled a rebellion by royalists. Some 1,400 royalists are estimated to have been killed. Justice Katju, who was a Supreme Court judge till 2011, warned that angering the farmers, now united across castes and religions, could cost Modi politically and using violence against them could trigger turmoil in the states and affect the armed forces, whose personnel come mostly from farming families. He wrote: “The farmers in huge numbers are presently camped at the border of Delhi but are determined to enter Delhi on 26th January and join the Republic Day parade with their tractors. This will obviously not be allowed by the Government, and consequently, violence in the form of police and paramilitary lathi charges and firing seems inevitable, and a Jalianwala Bagh type massacre (or like the massacre on Bloody Sunday in St Petersburg in Russia in January 1905, or as on Vendemiarie in Paris in October 1795) may ensue.” Saying that he was sure Modi would like to avoid that, Justice Katju added: “The Government should issue an Ordinance immediately repealing the 3 laws. If you do this, you will be hailed by all for doing it. If anyone asks why the laws were made at all, you can say that we made a mistake, and we realise our mistake and are correcting it. All human beings make mistakes. By doing this, far from losing face, you will be applauded. If you do it your popularity, far from going down, will soar. “Simultaneously, the Government should appoint a High Powered Farmers Commission having as its members representatives of the leading farmers’ organisations, government representatives, and agricultural experts, tasked with the duty of considering all aspects of the problems of our farmers, the principal one being that they are not getting adequate remuneration for their produce (because of which 3 to 4 lac farmers have already committed suicide). “This Farmers Commission should hold several meetings, perhaps stretching over several months, and then the consensus which emerges, to which everyone agrees, should be enacted as a comprehensive law.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-412
15-01-2021||India||A message in farmers’ consent to government talks ||The protesting farmers will attend their ninth meeting with government interlocutors on Friday after refusing to engage with a Supreme Court-appointed committee, having drawn a clear distinction between mediation and direct conversation with the executive. There had been some doubt over the meeting taking place in the light of the Supreme Court appointing a committee to resolve the stalemate over the three farm laws. But the farm union leaders said they would go to Vigyan Bhavan at the appointed time as the last meeting on January 8 had ended with the understanding that they would meet again on January 15. Agriculture minister Narendra Singh Tomar too told reporters in the evening that the meeting was on. Some doubt had persisted till Thursday afternoon about whether the meeting would take place. Since no separate invitations are usually sent out for meetings already agreed, none was forthcoming. All India Kisan Sabha general secretary Hannan Mollah told a news conference: “Normally there is no special invitation after a date for the next meeting is fixed at the last interaction. We will just turn up as always. Let’s see.” Mollah explained why the farmers were meeting the government while turning their backs on the Supreme Court-appointed committee. “We had always said that we do not want any mediation. We want to talk directly to the government,” he said. Mollah added that the committee offered no hope, anyway, because “the government knows that its script is in play”. Nor are the farmers expecting a change of heart on the government’s part on repealing the new farm laws. They reckon the government would use the matter being in court as a pretext not to discuss it. In that event, the unions are likely to stress that even on their two lesser demands relating to the pollution ordinance and electricity bill, the government is yet to give them in writing what it promised them last month. The farm unions are mobilising protesters to further widen their agitation while fire-fighting against the canards being spread by the government’s supporters about the movement being infiltrated by Khalistanis. Apart from the planned “Kisan Parade” on Republic Day after the main parade, the unions are gearing for demonstrations before the various Raj Bhavans on the premise that the governors represent the Centre in the states. The idea is to create multiple pressure points across the country similar to those at Delhi’s borders. Named “Mahapadav”, the protests before the Raj Bhavans have been planned between January 20 and 22 in Bengal, January 24 and 26 in Maharashtra, January 23 and 25 in Andhra Pradesh, Telangana and Kerala, and on January 23 in Odisha. As for the Kisan Parade, the union leaders have repeatedly clarified that they have no plans to disrupt the Republic Day parade. “Our parade is planned after the main Republic Day parade. We will use only the national flag and our respective union flags. The modalities will be worked out at the next meeting of the Samyukta Kisan Morcha on Sunday,” a union leader said. A veteran farmer leader, Balbir Singh Rajewal, has written an open letter to all the protesting farmers underscoring the need to keep the movement peaceful if it is to succeed. He has argued that the movement’s strength lies in demonstrating that even such a huge congregation of protesters from multiple unions can agitate peacefully for such a long time. It is this that has struck a chord with people, not just in India but across the word, he said. “This resolve to keep the movement peaceful should not weaken,” Rajewal wrote, urging everyone to continue with the protest peacefully. The letter comes amid concerns that the protesters’ frustration might boil over at the government’s stalling tactics, more so with mischief makers trying to orchestrate trouble to discredit the movement.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-412
15-01-2021||India||Farmers protest: BJP pins hope on diversions||The BJP hopes to cash in on the double dose of the launch of the Covid-19 vaccination campaign and a funds collection drive to build a Ram temple in Ayodhya to shift focus from the farmers’ protest. Prime Minister Narendra Modi is scheduled to launch the vaccination programme on Saturday. On Friday, the Sangh parivar will begin a funds collection drive to build a “grand” Ram temple. The farmers’ protest, which has gone from strength to strength, has dented the image of the government, which is said to be looking for avenues to divert attention from the issue. The government had hoped that the Supreme Court ruling staying the implementation of the farm laws and forming a committee to broker peace would end the impasse but that hasn’t happened. According to BJP insiders, the countrywide donation campaign to pool in funds for the Ram temple would begin once the auspicious month of Magh begins after Makar Sankranti on Thursday. On Friday, the first day of Magh, members of the Shri Ram Janmabhoomi Teerth Kshetra Trust, tasked with building the temple in Ayodhya, will launch the funds drive by meeting President Ram Nath Kovind, the official first citizen of the country. The treasurer of the trust, Govind Dev Giri, Vishwa Hindu Parishad working president Alok Kumar and others are scheduled to meet the President at 11am. Although Kumar couldn’t be contacted, the chief spokesperson of the VHP, Vinod Bansal, said in a tweet that the meeting with the President was to seek his blessings. “Shubhkamnayein lene hetu,” the tweet in Hindi said. RSS cadres will fan out across the country during the funds raising-cum-contact programme from Friday. The target is to reach over 5 lakh villages and use it as yet another opportunity to consolidate Hindus as part of a larger ideological and political goal. As for the vaccination drive, it is being touted as the biggest such exercise in the world. Sources said Prime Minister Modi was keen to achieve the feat of vaccinating the largest number of people in the shortest time possible. BJP general secretary (organisation) B.L. Santosh took to Twitter on Thursday to hype up the health programme. “Nation is set for massive vaccination on Jan 16 in its next step to tackle #Covid19. If what I hear is achieved, more than a million health workers will be administered vaccine on Day 1. Thanks to PM @narendramodi & dedicated team,” Santosh tweeted.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-412
15-01-2021||India||Farm laws will be junked: Rahul Gandhi||Congress leader Rahul Gandhi on Thursday predicted that the Narendra Modi government would be compelled to repeal the new farm laws, stressing that suppressing farmers to help a few corporate houses would not be tolerated in the country. Speaking to the media in Tamil Nadu’s Madurai, Rahul said: “I am very proud of what the farmers are doing. I fully support the farmers and will continue to stand with them. I raised their issues at a yatra in Punjab and will continue to do it. Mark my words, take it from me, these laws… the government will be forced to take them back. Remember what I said.” The government hasn’t given any indication so far of withdrawing the laws, which have triggered one of the biggest mass movements in India’s history, with Prime Minister Modi and his party leaders accusing the Congress of misleading the farmers. While Rahul’s assessment may be based on the farmers’ unwavering resolve, this also indicates the Opposition’s readiness to extend political support to the agitation. Rahul, whose absence from India over the past fortnight gave ammunition to the BJP and his other critics to attack the Congress that is grappling with a leadership crisis for a year now, launched a scathing attack on Modi although he was visiting Tamil Nadu primarily for an apolitical engagement — to witness the traditional jallikattu bull-taming festival on the day of Pongal. Apart from the farmers’ issue, Rahul also broached the Chinese intrusions, which have almost been erased from the political discourse. Asked about the “neglect” of thousands of farmers who are sitting at Delhi’s borders for 50 days braving a punishing winter, the Congress leader said: “The government is not just neglecting them. The government is conspiring to destroy them. There is a difference — neglecting is when you ignore them. The government is not ignoring them, they are trying to destroy them (the farmers) because they want to give what belongs to the farmers to two-three of their corporate friends. They (the government) want to take their (farmers’) land and their produce. The word neglect is too weak to explain what is happening.” Rahul added: “Farmers are the backbone of this country. If anybody thinks you can suppress the farmers and the country will continue to prosper… they can look at our history. Whenever farmers are weak, India is weak. I would like to ask a counter question — you suppress farmers to help a handful of businesses. During corona, you didn’t help the common man. Whose Prime Minister are you? Are you the Prime Minister of India or of two-three selected businessmen?” The Congress MP then switched to China, saying: “There is a final question — what is China doing in our territory and why is the Prime Minister silent? Why has he nothing to say about it?” The primary purpose of Rahul’s visit to Madurai, where he attended a jallikattu event, appeared to be to launch his party’s campaign in election-bound Tamil Nadu. He sent out the message that the Congress was aligned with the Tamil sentiment and culture much better than the other national party — the BJP — which he accused of plotting to impose uniformity throughout the country. The Congress wants to correct its position on jallikattu, which it had opposed earlier and its government at the Centre had banned in 2011, after realising that the annual event is part of the Tamil identity, particularly in rural areas. Describing what he saw as a “lovely experience”, Rahul argued that the changes introduced in the format had made the game safer for both the bulls and the youths who participated in it.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-412
15-01-2021||India||Dave resigns as Supreme Court Bar Association chief||Senior advocate Dushyant Dave on Thursday resigned as president of the Supreme Court Bar Association amid differences over his decision to conduct the body’s annual elections virtually on January 29. Until a new executive body is formed, the outgoing office-bearers — whose term ended on December 20 — would continue in their posts. Dave had initiated the process for virtual elections but many in the association insisted that the exercise be held physically to avoid rigging. Dave, considered a stormy petrel, is widely respected and feared by members of the Bar for his outspokenness, which often brings him into conflict with people holding contrary ideological positions. He had last year triggered a spat with some association members and the Bar Council of India (BCI) by criticising a then serving apex court judge, Justice Arun Mishra, for effusively praising Prime Minister Narendra Modi at a conference of international jurists. “Following recent events, I feel that I have forfeited my right to continue as your leader and so I hereby tender my resignation from the post of the president of the SCBA with immediate effect,” Dave wrote to the executive committee of the association on Thursday. He said he had “sincerely decided to hold (a) virtual election” but “now I find it may not be possible to hold them as per the schedule declared by the election committee due to reservations held by some of you”. “I understand their position and have no quarrel with it but to me any further continuation as the president in these circumstances will be morally wrong.” The election committee had decided to conduct the election to the executive committee on January 29. Nominations were to be filed by January 18. Now the election looks likely to be postponed indefinitely though there’s no official word from the 2,000-strong association. Dave had endeared himself to many in the Bar last year by contributing Rs 1 crore out of his own pocket towards a Covid relief fund for lawyers. He, however, sparked controversy by issuing a resolution on behalf of the association saying Justice Mishra’s praise of the Prime Minister was unbecoming of the judiciary. He had said that people’s confidence in the independence of the judiciary would get eroded if judges were seen to be close to people in high places. Association secretary Ashok Arora later disowned the resolution. Arora convened an emergent meeting on May 11 last year, ostensibly to remove Dave as president for pursuing a “political agenda”, but was himself removed from his post by the Dave faction. Regulatory body BCI intervened on Arora’s behalf but was told by the association that it had no jurisdiction to interfere in the matter. Arora is waging his own legal battle against his removal in the Supreme Court.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-412
15-01-2021||India||No foreign chief guest at Republic Day parade||The external affairs ministry on Thursday said that this year’s Republic Day parade would not have any foreign head of State or government as chief guest owing to the pandemic. The announcement came nine days after British Prime Minister Boris Johnson, who was to be the chief guest at the parade, cancelled his visit to India because of the countrywide lockdown in the UK. This is the first time since 1966 that there will be no foreign dignitary as chief guest at the parade. A contingent of 122 soldiers of the Bangladesh Armed Forces will participate in the parade on January 26 to mark 50 years of the Liberation War that saw the birth of an independent country. This is only the third time in the history of the parade that a foreign military contingent has been invited to participate. A majority of the soldiers in the tri-services contingent come from the most distinguished units of the Bangladesh Army.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-412
15-01-2021||India||Three BJP-ruled municipal corporations lift ban on sale of eggs and chicken in Delhi||The capital’s three municipal corporations — all ruled by the BJP — have lifted a controversial ban on the sale of eggs and chicken to prevent the spread of bird flu. The ban, imposed on Wednesday, had covered the sale and storage of “poultry, processed or packaged chicken meat”. In North and South Delhi, an additional ban on restaurants selling chicken or eggs had been imposed. In practice, municipal officials all across the city — except the sliver of centrally administered areas under the New Delhi Municipal Council and the Delhi Cantonment Board — had enforced a total ban on chicken and eggs in markets, compelling retailers to dispose of stock held in bulk. The action of the corporations flew in the face of advertisements by the Aam Aadmi Party-led Delhi government and guidelines of the Centre that cooked food was safe. Delhi is among 10 states affected by the flu that originates from birds and can spread to humans through direct contact with alive or dead infected birds or their droppings. After several wild birds died and were found to be infected, the Delhi government banned the import of live birds from outside the capital and shut the main wholesale market for poultry products in Gazipur on January 9. On Thursday, chief minister Arvind Kejriwal tweeted: “Samples taken from poultry markets have tested negative with respect to bird flu. Have directed to open the poultry market & withdraw the orders to restrict trade & import of chicken stocks.” However, the local bodies lifted their ban only later in the evening after a meeting with Union animal husbandry minister Giriraj Singh. Asked why they had overstepped their brief and banned eggs and chicken, South Delhi mayor Anamika told The Telegraph: “We are bound by circulars of the Delhi government. We don’t want to harass anyone. This is all (Delhi deputy chief minister) Manish Sisodia’s fault. Had he not shut the Gazipur market, we would not have issued any circular. Now that the Delhi government has withdrawn its circular, we will also withdraw the steps we have taken.” In 2017, the South Delhi Municipal Corporation had passed a BJP-sponsored proposal to ban the display of meat by restaurants. It was struck down by the municipal commissioner. Riyaaz Amlani, trustee of the National Restaurants Association of India, told this newspaper on Thursday that customer confidence in chicken and egg dishes had been shaken because of the ambiguity. “Customers need education, not bans. We look to governments for security and advice, not confusion. This is not the best environment to attract business. This is another example of businesses suffering due to lack of coordination between authorities, and their cultural issues,” he said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-412
15-01-2021||India||Ganga pollution rap on Uttar Pradesh government||The National Green Tribunal (NGT) has come down heavily on the Uttar Pradesh government over the discharge of untreated sewage in rivers joining the Ganga and said there was no indication how the “crime of pollution” was to be prevented by the state. Terming the situation extremely “unsatisfactory”, a bench headed by NGT chairperson Justice Adarsh Kumar Goel said remedial action needed to be taken for the contamination of Ramgarh lake as also the Ami, Rapti and Rohani rivers in and around Gorakhpur. Perusing a report filed by a committee, the green panel said there was large-scale non-compliance by the authorities concerned in the discharge of their public duties. “It is high time that periodically the chief secretary personally reviews the matter to ensure compliance of directions of the Supreme Court requiring preventing the discharge of untreated sewage and trade effluents, solid waste management and rejuvenation of the Ganga,” the tribunal said. The NGT directed the state chief secretary to oversee the execution of river rejuvenation plans for the Ami, Rapti, Rohani, Saryu and the Ghagra and fix the timelines for rejuvenation of different components with necessary budgetary support and designation of the authorities/officers responsible for it. “Such projects cannot be delayed on the pretext of funding by the National Mission for Clean Ganga in view of the fact that preventing discharge of pollutants in the Ganga or other water bodies is a criminal offence under the Water Act and even authorities are liable to be prosecuted for such offences…,” the bench said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-413
15-01-2021||India||Farmers' rage takes toll on Reliance, Walmart||Dozens of Reliance Industries’ retail stores and a giant Walmart outlet face revenue losses of millions of dollars after being forced to shut for more than three months over protests against the new farm laws, sources said. Thousands of farmers from states including Punjab have camped for weeks near the capital, in a bid to force Prime Minister Narendra Modi to repeal the laws they contend will benefit corporates, rather than cultivators. Fears of farmers’ agitation in Punjab, home to many protest leaders, have stoked companies’ fears over vandalism and the safety of employees, prompting the closure of dozens of shops, store employees and industry sources said. Since October, more than half the roughly 100 stores of top retailer Reliance Retail in Punjab and Walmart’s 50,000-square-foot wholesale outlet in Bathinda, a centre of the protests, have been shut, the sources added. “We are scared of the protesting farmers,” said a senior official of a shuttered Reliance outlet in Mohali, a prosperous city located in the farm belt. One industry source said estimated losses for Reliance from its state-wide shutdowns run into millions of dollars. Two other sources said Walmart’s estimated revenue loss from its store, one of 29 such outlets nationwide, has crossed $8 million. “The farmers camp outside the Walmart store daily, they don’t let anybody go in,” said one of the sources, adding that the store employed about 250 people. Thousands of items in the store are gathering dust and have passed their use-by date. Reliance store officials and the sources, who have direct knowledge of the situation, sought anonymity as they were not authorised to speak to media. Walmart and its Indian unit, Flipkart, did not immediately respond to a request for comment. Reliance, India’s largest private company, also did not respond. Both firms can absorb the losses for now, said Ankur Bisen, head of consumer and retail at consultancy Technopak Advisors, but he added, “they have to keep their fingers crossed that shutdowns do not extend to other states.” A Punjab official said authorities were ready to provide security but could do little if companies had decided to keep their stores shut. For their part, some farmer unions have vowed to continue the protests and block stores from opening. “Our protests against corporates like Reliance will continue... there is no question of lifting our sit-ins,” said Kulwant Singh Sandhu, an official of one protesting group, the Democratic Farmers’ Union. Another farm leader, Jagtar Singh, said protests against Reliance would continue until the government repealed the laws. The Union government says the laws passed in September will boost farmers’ incomes by letting them deal directly with big companies and bypass government-regulated wholesale markets. But many of the unions disagree, saying they risk losing their bargaining power and becoming vulnerable to potential bulk buyers such as Walmart and Reliance. They fear the eventual disappearance of the guaranteed prices the government pays for their grain. Reliance, controlled by Mukesh Ambani, has said it would require suppliers to abide by these prices, known as minimum support prices, or a similar mechanism. In December, the protests also disrupted Reliance’s nearly 2,000 telecom towers and several petrol pumps in Punjab. Protests along highways linking it to New Delhi have disrupted transport and industries such as textiles. In November, Punjab estimated economic losses from the protests at $4 billion, while one industry group has pegged the overall hit to India’s economy at $9.6 billion.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-413
15-01-2021||India||Polio drops day deferred to January 31||The national polio immunisation programme, as part of which children up to the age of five years are administered polio drops, has been rescheduled to January 31. National Immunisation Day, commonly known as pulse polio immunisation programme, was earlier scheduled for January 17 across India. “The massive countrywide Covid-19 vaccination drive will be rolled out by the Prime Minister from January 16. This would be the world’s largest immunisation exercise. Therefore, it has been decided by the ministry of health in consultation with the office of the President of India to reschedule the polio vaccination day, also known as National Immunisation Day (NID) or ‘Polio Ravivar’ to 31st January,” the Union health ministry said in a statement. The President will launch the polio vaccination drive on January 30 by administering drops to some children at Rashtrapati Bhavan at 11.45am, the ministry said. “The decision is in keeping with the stated policy of the health ministry to ensure that Covid management and vaccination services as well as non-Covid essential health services proceed in tandem without adversely impacting each other,” it stated.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-413
15-01-2021||India||Drivers booked for illegal transport of cows in Karnataka||An ordinance that prohibits cattle slaughter in Karnataka has kicked in with police in Chikmagalur booking two cases for illegal transport of cows. Drivers of two cattle transport vehicles were found badly injured by police after being allegedly assaulted by unidentified cow vigilantes on January 8 near Sringeri in Chikmagalur, 320km from Bangalore. The matter came to light only late on Wednesday. The police have booked both the drivers under the recently implemented Karnataka Prevention of Slaughter and Preservation of Cattle Act, 2020. According to the police, the transporters identified as Shaan and Abid Ali were separately taking 15 heads of cattle from Davangere to slaughterhouses in Mangalore, 270km apart, in two trucks on January 8 when they were attacked within hours of each other. If convicted, Shaan and Ali, who has been left with a fractured arm, could be jailed for up to three years for illegally transporting cattle to slaughterhouses. A separate case of assault and illegal detention has been booked against unknown persons. A police source said one of the assailants had been arrested but refused to give further details, including his political affiliation. The two men were attacked just three days after the BJP government in the state took the ordinance route to pass the new cattle slaughter law after failing to get it cleared in the Legislative Council (upper House) where it lacked sufficient numbers. Karnataka High Court had on Tuesday issued notice to the state government after one Mohammed Arif Jameel challenged the law and sought a stay on its operation. While cow slaughter was not allowed in the state even under the old law — the Karnataka Prevention of Cow Slaughter and Cattle Preservation Act, 1964 — the new one prohibits the slaughter of even oxen and bulls. It allows the slaughter of only buffalos over 13 years and certified by a government veterinarian, a decision that has hit the meat industry in Karnataka. Illegal slaughter could fetch up to seven years in jail, as opposed to up to six months in the old law. Ali Hassan, vice-president of the Karnataka Jamiyyathul Qureshi Meat Merchants’ Association, said he was not surprised at the two incidents of cow vigilantism. “We had feared more such violent attacks after the ordinance was promulgated,” he told The Telegraph on Thursday. Miscreants allegedly from the Sangh parivar had set fire to two makeshift beef stalls in Mangalore a day after the ordinance was promulgated. “We have heard many people saying these were illegal beef stalls. But let me make it clear that they were built by the Ullal municipality,” Hassan said. The civic body has since rebuilt the stalls and allowed resumption of beef sales but no one has been arrested for arson. “The problem with all these vigilantism is that only we people suffer and those who inflict such harm on us and our livelihood go scot-free,” lamented Hassan. “There are over one lakh people engaged in the meat industry in Karnataka alone. They include those who work in slaughterhouses, meat shop owners, cleaners and the thousands who work in tanneries,” he added. Neighbouring Goa faced a severe shortage of beef on Christmas because of the Karnataka slaughter ban.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-413
15-01-2021||India||Two special trains from Puri ||The East Coast Railway (ECoR) on Thursday announced that it would run Puri-Jodhpur-Puri Special Train from Puri from January 20 and Puri-Ajmer-Puri Special Train from Puri from January 21. The Puri-Jodhpur-Puri Special Train (02093 and 02094) will leave every Wednesday at 1605hrs with effect from January 20 from Puri and from Jodhpur every Saturday at 1415hrs with effect from January 23, a press release said. This train will stop at Kh-u-rda Road, Bhubaneswar, Cuttack, Dhenkanal, Talcher Road, Angul, Rairakhol, Sambalpur, Jharsuguda Road in ECoR jurisdiction and at important stations in the route including Raigarh, Bilaspur, Raipur, Durg, Rajnandgaon, Gondia, Nagpur, Itarshi, Habibganj, Bhopal, Ujjain, Jaipur between Puri and Jodhpur from both the directions.Puri-Ajmer-Puri Special Train (02037 and 02038) from Puri will leave  every Monday and Thursday at 2305hrs with effect from January 21 and from Ajmer  every Tuesday and Thursday at 1850hrs with effect from January 26. This train will stop at stations including Khurda Road, Bhubaneswar, Dhenkanal, Angul, Rairakhol, Sambalpur, Bargarh Road, Balangir, Titilagarh, Kantabanji, Khariar Road, Mahasamund in ECoR jurisdiction and at important stations in the route including Raipur, Durg, Gondia, Nagpur, Wardha, Bhusaval, Jalgaon, Surat, Vadodara, Ahmedabad, Sabarmati, Abu Road between Puri and Ajmer from both the directions.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-413
15-01-2021||India||Rs 1-lakh fine on biker for flouting norms in Odisha||The Odisha transport department has slapped a Rs 1.13 lakh fine on a motorcycle rider in Rayagada for violations under the Motor Vehicles Act. The rider, 20-year-old Prakash Banjara, who hails from Amarpur in Madhya Pradesh, used to sell plastic drums in Rayagada town in southern Odisha and its adjoining areas on his motorcycle. Traffic inspector Yudhisthira Lenka, who slapped the fine on Prakash, told The Telegraph: “When we found the motorcycle plying without a registration number on Wednesday, we blocked his way. He was also not wearing a helmet and his bike had no valid insurance.” He said: “While he was fined Rs 5,000 for using a vehicle without registration papers and fitness certificates, Rs 500 was charged under general offence category, Rs 5,000 for driving without valid driving licence, Rs 2,000 for not having an insurance, Rs 1,000 for riding without helmet and Rs 1 lakh for sale of vehicle by the dealer without registration papers. The total amount stands Rs 1,13,500.” He added: “We have seized the motorcycle. We have asked the rider to collect the registration number from the dealer. If the rider produces all the valid documents on Friday, we will reduce the fine.” However, Lenka said the Rs 1 lakh fine will be collected from the dealer. “We will soon begin the legal process and communicate with the dealer in Madhya Pradesh from whom he had bought the vehicle. But as Prakash was riding the motorcycle when our official seized it, the e-challan was issued against the rider. Through him only, we can reach the dealer concerned. Until and unless the fine amount is settled, the vehicle will not be released,” he said. Prakash, a hawker, told this newspaper: “I pleaded with the authorities not to impose such a huge fine. They didn’t listen to me.” My elder brother Tofan purchased the motorcycle by availing of finance from a private bank in July 2020. We used to pay Rs 2,200 as instalment per month. We have contacted them and asked them to send all the documents of the vehicle.” He added: “I have made only one real mistake of not wearing a helmet. As I was carrying drums, I was going slow and feeling awkward in wearing a helmet. But it’s a new vehicle and we will get all the documents shortly.” On the other hand, Rayagada regional transport officer Dilip Kumar Dalai said: “We are bound by law. If we don’t strictly implement the law, many issues will crop up. We will certainly try to help Prakash but it will be done within the ambit of law.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-413
