16-01-2021||India||Over 1.65 lakh beneficiaries receive Covid-19 jabs on Day One||As India kicked off the first phase of its massive Covid-19 vaccination drive, over 1.65 lakh beneficiaries were inoculated with the jabs across 3,351 session sites in the country on Saturday, the government said. It added that no no case of post-inoculation hospitalisation has been reported so far. Addressing a press briefing, Additional Secretary in the Union health ministry Manohar Agnani said that the vaccination drive was conducted successfully on the first day. “A total of 3,351 sessions were held wherein 1,65,714 beneficiaries were vaccinated, as per provisional reports,” Agnani said. “A total of 16,755 personnel were involved in organising the vaccination sessions,” he added. Sanitation worker Manish Kumar became the first recipient of the vaccination drive at Delhi's All India Institute of Medical Sciences (AIIMS), according to the health ministry. The 11 states and union territories where both Covishield and Covaxin were administered were Assam (65 sessions), Bihar (301), Delhi (81), Haryana (77), Karnataka (242), Maharashtra (285), Odisha (161), Rajasthan (167) Tamil Nadu (160), Telangana (14) and Uttar Pradesh (317). Prime Minister Narendra Modi launched the vaccination drive while reassuring the country that emergency use authorisation was given to two made in India vaccines only after scientists were convinced of their safety and effectiveness, and urged people to beware of propaganda and rumours. The 1,65,714 beneficiaries included 78 from Andaman and Nicobar Islands, 76 from Ladakh, 43 from Daman and Diu, 64 from Dadra And Nagar Haveli, 21 from Lakshadweep, 195 from Chandigarh and 373 from Goa . Besides, 16,963 were vaccinated in Andhra Pradesh, 16,401 in Bihar, 15,727 in Maharashtra, 4,985 in Chhattisgarh, 8,557 in Gujarat, 743 in Arunachal Pradesh, 2,721 in Assam, 3,403 in Delhi, 4,656 in Haryana, 1,408 in Himachal Pradesh and 1,954 in Jammu and Kashmir. More than one crore cases and 1.5 lakh fatalities later, India took its first steps out of the pandemic with shots of the Covishield and Covaxin vaccines being administered at medical centres across the country. Of the first day beneficiaries, 2,897 were in Jharkhand, 12,637 in Karnataka, 7,206 in Kerala, 6,739 in Madhya Pradesh, 510 in Manipur, 509 in Meghalaya, 314 in Mizoram, 499 in Nagaland, 8,675 in Odisha, 206 in Puducherry, 1,200 in Punjab, 9,279 in Rajasthan, 120 in Sikkim, 2,728 in Tamil Nadu, 3,600 in Telangana, 266 in Tripura, 15,975 in Uttar Pradesh, 2,226 in Uttarakhand and 9,578 in Bengal.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-409
16-01-2021||India||Congress leader, Health Minister spar on Twitter over Covaxin approval||Union Health Minister Harsh Vardhan and senior Congress leader Manish Tewari on Saturday had a war of words on Twitter, as the Opposition member raised questions on the emergency use  approval of the Bharat Biotech-made Covaxin. Vardhan on the other hand hit back and said that Tewari was only passionate about spreading rumours. India’s nationwide vaccination programme commenced on Saturday with thousands getting inoculated with the recently approved Covaxin or the Serum Institute of India-made Covishield vaccine. In the backdrop of the Covid-19 vaccine roll-out in the country, Tewari raised questions over the emergency use approval given to the indigenously developed vaccine Covaxin and alleged that it was “sans due process”. “As vaccine roll-out begins, it is all a bit puzzling India has no policy framework for authorising emergency use. Yet, two vaccines have been approved for restricted use in emergency situations,” Tewari tweeted just before Prime Minister Narendra Modi kicked off the programme. “COVAXIN is another story -- Approvals sans Due Process,” the former Union minister added, tagging a media report which claimed that scientists and doctors are divided on the issue of restricted use approval granted to the Hyderabad-based Bharat Biotech’s Covaxin. Responding to Tewari's remarks raising questions over approval to Covaxin, Vardhan, in a tweet, quoted English cleric Charles Caleb Colton who said, "So blinded are we by our passions that we suffer more to be damned than to be saved." “Sh @ManishTewari & @INCIndia are only passionate about spreading distrust & rumours. Open your eyes, sharing photos of eminent Doctors & Govt functionaries getting inoculated,” Vardhan tweeted and posted pictures from the inoculation drive that began earlier in the day. Hitting back at Vardhan for his jibe, Tewari said, “Dear Dr @drharshvardhan, Concerns that I have articulated are real & not imagined. It is not fear Mongering. Look what is happening in Norway. It may be a different vaccine but do not hide behind vaccine nationalism. ANS QUES Expected better of you Sir.” Addressing Tewari, in another tweet, the Union health minister said the science behind Covid-19 vaccines is resolute. “Our scientists have worked at lightning speed to expedite functions that contribute to development of a vaccine but not a single function has been circumvented. Safety above all else has been the guiding principle,” he said. Tagging Vardhan's tweet, Tewari said, “Well @drharshvardhan since you say so & as you are aware that I have deep personal regard for you I am more than willing to take your word for it. However, why is the medical fraternity so deeply divided over the safety,reliability & efficacy of COVAXIN?” Tewari also shared a letter on Twitter which was purportedly from the Resident Doctor Association (RDA) of the Ram Manohar Lohia Hospital to the medical superintendent of the hospital in which apprehensions were expressed over the use of Covaxin in the vaccination drive for the resident doctors. “Is this letter a genuine or a fake? A journalist sent it to me. Just bringing it to your attention. kind of FYA (for your attention),” Tewari tweeted along with the letter. Earlier this month, senior Congress leaders Anand Sharma, Jairam Ramesh and Shashi Tharoor had also raised concerns over India's drugs regulator's nod to restricted use of Bharat Biotech’s Covid-19 vaccine. However, there were different voices within the party as its chief spokesperson Randeep Surjewala had lauded scientists and researchers of Bharat Biotech for the indigenous vaccine.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-409
16-01-2021||India||Kejriwal 'certifies' vaccines, asks people not to believe in rumours||Delhi Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal on Saturday urged people not to believe in rumours and listen to experts who say COVID-19 vaccines are safe, as the world's largest immunisation programme against the disease began in the country. Kejriwal inspected the COVID-19 vaccination campaign at the Lok Nayak Jai Prakash Narayan (LNJP) Hospital here, interacted with some health workers who received the shot and lauded their contribution in fighting the pandemic. The vaccination drive has started at 81 centres in Delhi. Atmaja Priyadarshini Nayak, nursing officer at the LNJP Hospital, was administered the vaccine shot in the presence of the chief minister. "I have interacted with those vaccinated. No one has any problem. All are happy that they will get rid of coronavirus," the chief minister said. He said, "I want to say to all not to pay attention to rumours and misinformation. The experts say vaccines are safe and there is no need to worry." But there is a need to use face masks and maintain social distancing even after receiving the vaccine shots, Kejriwal stressed. The Delhi government has made all the preparations and around 8,100 people will be vaccinated on Saturday at 81 sites across Delhi, he said, adding the exercise was running smoothly at LNJP and those vaccinated were very happy. The chief minister said there was no need to launch a separate app to register people for vaccination as the Centre has devised the same system for the entire country. Number of vaccination centres will be raised to 175 gradually in the coming days and to 1000 as and when vaccine availability increases, Kejriwal said. Delhi Health minister Satyendar Jain said health workers will be the first to receive the vaccine followed by frontline workers such as civil defence volunteers and police officials. Following this, people above 50 years and then younger people but with co-morbidities will be vaccinated, he said. LNJP Hospital director Dr Suresh Kumar said, "World's largest vaccination drive has started in Delhi from LNJP Hospital. CM Arvind Kejriwal and Health Minister Satyendar Jain inspected the preparations and they spoke to eight people who received the vaccine." "I want to request people to participate in the vaccination drive," he said. Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Saturday launched the vaccination programme covering the entire length and breadth of the country and urged people to show patience during the COVID-19 immunisation drive as they had shown till now in fighting the pandemic. The Drugs Controller General of India (DCGI) had earlier this month approved Oxford COVID-19 vaccine Covishield, manufactured by the Serum Institute, and indigenously developed Covaxin of Bharat Biotech for restricted emergency use in the country.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-409
16-01-2021||India||Bharat Biotech to pay compensation if Covaxin causes side effects||Bharat Biotech, which has received a government purchase order for the supply of 55 lakh doses of Covaxin, a COVID-19 vaccine, said the company will pay compensation to recipients in case of any serious adverse effects experienced after receiving the antidote. In the consent form to be signed by the vaccine recipients, Bharat Biotech said, "In case of any adverse events or serious adverse events, you will be provided medically recognised standard of care in the government designated and authorised centres/hospitals." "The compensation for serious adverse event will be paid by sponsor (BBIL) in case if the SAE is proven to be causally related to the vaccine," the consent form said. In phase 1 and phase 2 clinical trials, Covaxin has demonstrated the ability to produce antidotes against COVID- 19. However the clinical efficacy of the vaccine is yet to be established and it is still being studied in phase 3 clinical trials, the vaccine maker said. "Hence it is important to appreciate that receiving the vaccine does not mean that other precautions related to COVID-19 need not be followed," the consent form said. According to an industry expert, the company is liable to pay compensation to people in case of serious side effects as the vaccine is being administered while in the clinical trial mode. The central licensing authority has granted permission for the sale or distribution of Covaxin for restricted use in emergency situations in the public interest as an abundant caution, in clinical trial mode. Meanwhile, Joint Managing Director of BharatBiotech International Ltd, SuchitraElla in her twitter account said, "Covaxin & Bharat Biotech is truly humbled & honoured to be of service to the nation & the fraternity of all first responders of covid who have served public health."||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-409
16-01-2021||India||Adar Poonawalla takes Covishield jab||Adar Poonawalla, whose Serum Institute of India (SII) manufactured the first lot of COVID-19 vaccines, was among those who got vaccinated on Saturday, as India kicked off world's largest immunisation campaign to bring the pandemic under control. He wished the country and Prime Minister Narendra Modi success for the vaccination programme. As sanitation and healthcare workers around the country got the first inoculation, Poonawalla tweeted a short video of him getting the vaccine. "I wish India & Sri @narendramodi ji great success in launching the world's largest COVID vaccination roll-out. It brings me great pride that #COVISHIELD is part of this historic effort & to endorse it's safety & efficacy, I join our health workers in taking the vaccine myself," Poonawalla tweeted. SII manufactured Oxford University-AstraZeneca's vaccine Covishield, while Bharat Biotech developed the other vaccine Covaxin that is being administered in the inoculation drive. Over 3 lakh healthcare workers will be inoculated on the first day of the much-anticipated drive against coronavirus. The vaccination drive has been planned in a phased manner, identifying priority groups. Healthcare workers, both in government and private sectors, including ICDS (Integrated Child Development Services) workers, will receive the vaccine during this phase, according to the health ministry. Earlier in the day, the prime minister launched the vaccination programme covering the entire length and breadth of the country, and urged people to show patience during COVID-19 immunisation drive as they had shown till now in fighting the pandemic. Union Health Minister Harsh Vardhan described COVID-19 vaccines as "Sanjivani" in the fight against the infectious disease as he urged people not to pay heed to hearsay and instead believe in experts and scientists. The Drugs Controller General of India (DCGI) had earlier this month approved Covishield and the indigenously developed Covaxin for restricted emergency use in the country. The government has already bought 1.1 crore doses of Covishield and 55 lakh doses of Covaxin.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-409
16-01-2021||India||Vaccination drive underway as hopes soar||||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-409
16-01-2021||India||Covid vaccine is like Sanjivani, says Harsh Vardhan ||Union Health Minister Harsh Vardhan on Saturday described the Covid-19 vaccines as 'Sanjivani' in the fight against the infectious disease as he urged people not to pay heed to hearsay and instead believe in experts and scientists. Prime Minister Narendra Modi launched the world's largest vaccination programme covering the entire length and breadth of the country and urged people to show patience during the Covid-19 immunisation drive as they had shown till now in fighting the pandemic. "It's a historic day. We have been blessed by the prime minister all through our fight against COVID-19. It's the largest coronavirus vaccination programme in world," Vardhan told reporters at the All India Institute of Medical Sciences (AIIMS) here. "We have been able to put up a valiant fight against the disease during the last one year. Adopting a preemptive and proactive strategy has resulted in very good performance by India. We have probably the lowest fatality rate in the world," he said. Thanking all, including doctors, nurses, healthcare staff, security personnel and journalists, who have been at the frontline in the fight against the pandemic, the minister said they ensured India reaches the stage when vaccine gets delivered to the people. The Drugs Controller General of India (DCGI) had earlier this month approved Oxford COVID-19 vaccine Covishield, manufactured by the Serum Institute, and indigenously developed Covaxin of Bharat Biotech for restricted emergency use in the country. "These vaccines are 'sanjivani' in our fight against this pandemic. We have won the battles against polio and small pox. Now, we have reached the decisive phase of winning the war against coronavirus. "I want to congratulate all frontline workers on this day. At times when rumours are being spread, I hope the media will spread the correct information and this move will help in the fight against the disease," the health minister said. Asserting that both the vaccines are safe and effective, Vardhan urged people not to give in to hearsay and instead believe in experts. "They have put their heart and soul into it," he said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-409
16-01-2021||India||Modi launches India's Covid vaccination drive||Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Saturday launched India's COVID-19 vaccination drive while reassuring the country that emergency use authorisation was given to two made in India vaccines only after scientists were convinced of their safety and effectiveness, and urged people to beware of propaganda and rumours. Addressing the nation ahead of the launch of what he described as the world's largest vaccination programme, Modi said these vaccines will ensure a "decisive victory" for the country over the coronavirus pandemic, but asked countrymen to continue wearing masks and maintain social distancing even after receiving the jabs. Emphasising the enormity of the vaccination drive, which he launched through a remote control amid chanting of Sanskrit shloka that meant 'let everybody be happy, let everybody be healthy', Modi said never before in history, has this type of a large-scale vaccination campaign been undertaken. There are more than 100 countries in the world whose population is less than three crore and India is vaccinating three crore people in its first phase of vaccination, he said. In the second phase, the number of those vaccinated has to be taken to 30 crore, Modi said, pointing out that only two countries other than India have a population in excess of 30 crore -- the US and China. The Prime Minister said that those who are elderly, are suffering from a serious illness, will get vaccinated in the second stage. "Dawai bhi, kadai bhi (vaccine also and strict discipline also)" should be the mantra going forward, he said. "I want to remind people of the country that two doses of the Corona vaccine are very important. Don't commit the mistake that you take one dose and forget the second one. As experts have been saying, there will be a gap of about one month between the two doses," Modi said. He asked people not to let their guard down even after taking the vaccine as only two weeks after taking the second dose, the human body will develop necessary immunity against the virus. During his speech, the prime minister also turned emotional as he spoke of the disruption the pandemic caused to people's lives, isolating victims of the coronavirus and denying the dead traditional last rites. In a choked voice, the Prime Minister also referred to sacrifices made by healthcare and frontline workers, hundreds of whom lost their lives to the viral infection. The Drugs Controller General of India (DCGI) had earlier this month approved Oxford COVID-19 vaccine Covishield, manufactured by the Serum Institute, and indigenously developed Covaxin of Bharat Biotech for restricted emergency use in the country, paving the way for the massive inoculation drive. Modi also reassured the country about the safety and effectiveness of the vaccines given approval by India for restricted emergency use. "I want to tell the people of the country that only when our scientists and experts were convinced about the safety and effectiveness of both the made-in-India vaccines, only then they gave permission for their emergency use. That is why the people of the country should beware of any type of propaganda, rumours and misinformation," he said. "Our vaccine scientists, our medical system and the process India follows hold a lot of credibility in the world...we have won this confidence due to our track record," Modi said. His remarks come amid apprehensions being raised by opposition leaders, including some senior Congress leaders, about the process of approval to the Bharat Biotech vaccine. "Indian vaccines compared with foreign vaccines are much cheaper and their use is also very easy. Even one dose of some foreign vaccines costs Rs 5000 and have to be kept at minus 70 degrees Celsius, while the Indian vaccines have been made with such technology that is tried and tested," Modi said. These vaccines, from storage to transportation, are suited to Indian conditions, he said. "These (made-in-India) vaccines will ensure a decisive victory for India against coronavirus," he asserted. "India begins the world's Largest Vaccine Drive. This is a day of pride, a celebration of the prowess of our scientists and hard work of our medical fraternity, nursing staff, police personnel and sanitation workers," Modi said in a tweet after the launch of the drive. In his remarks at the launch event, Modi also urged the country to show patience during the vaccination drive as it had shown till now in fighting the pandemic. Normally, it takes years to make a vaccine but in such a short span of time, not one, but two 'made in India' vaccines are ready, Modi said, adding work on other vaccines is also progressing at a fast pace. India getting two vaccines in such a short time is a testimony to the country's capability, scientific efficiency and talent, the Prime Minister said. "Our vaccination programme is driven by humanitarian concerns, those exposed to maximum risk will get priority," he said. In its fight against the pandemic, India took right decisions at the right time while keeping a vigil round the clock, he asserted. On January 30, the first case of coronavirus was found in India, but even more than two weeks before that India had formed a high-level committee, he said. The country had issued its first advisory on January 17 and India was among first few nations that started screening at airports, Modi said emphasising the speed at which India acted to deal with the pandemic. Modi also talked about the evacuation of Indians stuck abroad, saying that at a time when many countries of the world had left their citizens stranded in China, India evacuated not only Indians but citizens of other countries. The Prime Minister congratulated the countrymen for passing the challenge of discipline and patience during the 'Janata Curfew' in March. He pointed out that the exercise prepared the country psychologically for the lockdown. Morale of the country was kept high with the campaigns like 'taali-thali' and lighting of diyas, the Prime Minister added. Asserting that India's response to the crisis has been acknowledged globally, Modi said it was an example of the integrated and unified response from centre, states, local governments, government offices, social bodies who performed efficiently in unison. According to the government, the shots will be offered first to an estimated one crore healthcare workers, and around two crore frontline workers, and then to persons above 50 years of age, followed by persons younger than 50 years of age with associated comorbidities. Cost of vaccination of healthcare and frontline workers will be borne by the central government.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-409
16-01-2021||India||India reports 15,158 Covid cases, 175 casualties in a day||India's Covid-19 caseload climbed to 1,05,42,841 on Saturday with 15,158 more people testing positive for the disease while recoveries surged to 1,01,79,715, according to the Union health ministry data. The country's death toll increased to 1,52,093 with 175 more fatalities, the data updated at 8 am showed. The number of people who have recuperated from the disease surged to 1,01,79,715, pushing the national Covid-19 recovery rate to 96.56 per cent. The country's COVID-19 case fatality rate stands at 1.44 per cent. The country's active caseload remained below 3 lakh on Saturday. There are 2,11,033 active coronavirus infections in the country which constitute 2 per cent of the total caseload, the data showed. India's Covid-19 tally had crossed the 20-lakh mark on August 7, 30 lakh on August 23, 40 lakh on September 5 and 50 lakh on September 16. It went past 60 lakh on September 28, 70 lakh on October 11, 80 lakh on October 29, 90 lakh on November 20 and crossed the one crore-mark on December 19. According to the Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR), 18,57,65,491 samples had been tested up to January 15, with 8,03,090 tested on Friday alone. The 175 new fatalities include 45 from Maharashtra, 23 from Kerala, 16 from West Bengal, 15 from Uttar Pradesh, 12 from Punjab and 10 from Delhi. A total of 1,52,093 deaths have been reported so far in the country including 50,336 from Maharashtra, 12,251 from Tamil Nadu, 12,158 from Karnataka, 10,732 from Delhi, 10,026 from West Bengal, 8,558 from Uttar Pradesh, 7,139 from Andhra Pradesh and 5,485 from Punjab. The health ministry stressed that more than 70 per cent of the deaths occurred due to comorbidities. "Our figures are being reconciled with the Indian Council of Medical Research," the ministry said on its website, adding that state-wise distribution of figures is subject to further verification and reconciliation.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-409
16-01-2021||India||More than 50 flights delayed as 'very dense' fog lowers visibility to zero in Delhi||More than 50 flights were delayed on Saturday morning due to dense fog at the Delhi airport, officials said. The thick blanket of fog reduced visibility to zero metres and affected traffic movement in the national capital on Saturday, the India Meteorological Department (IMD) said. This hit aircraft traffic movement with more than 50 flights being delayed, airport officials said. This is the third time this season -- after December 8 and January 1 -- that visibility dropped to zero metres in the city. 'Very dense' fog lowered visibility to zero meters at Palam and Safdarjung. 'Dense' fog is predicted in parts of the city on Sunday as well, an IMD official said. According to the IMD, 'very dense' fog is when visibility is between 0 and 50 metres. In case of 'dense' fog, visibility is between 51 and 200 metres, 'moderate' is between 201 and 500 metres, and 'shallow' is between 501 and 1,000 metres. Delhi recorded a minimum temperature of 6.6 degrees Celsius, a notch below normal, on Saturday. The Lodhi Road weather station recorded a minimum temperature of 5.8 degrees Celsius. On Friday, the Safdarjung Observatory, which provides representative data for the city, had recorded a low of 6.4 degrees Celsius. It was 2 degrees Celsius on Thursday and 3.2 degrees Celsius on Wednesday. There was no improvement in the city's air quality which remained in the 'severe' category on Saturday. The air quality index (AQI) had entered the 'severe' category on Thursday due to "extremely unfavourable" conditions for the dispersion of pollutants, government agencies said. The city's AQI was 436 at 9 am. The 24-hour average AQI was 460 on Friday, 429 on Thursday, 354 on Wednesday, 293 on Tuesday and 243 on Monday. An AQI between zero and 50 is considered 'good', 51 and 100 'satisfactory', 101 and 200 'moderate', 201 and 300 'poor', 301 and 400 'very poor', and 401 and 500 'severe'. Kuldeep Srivastava, the head of the IMD's regional forecasting centre, said the wind speed has slowed down and the moisture in the air has made the pollutants heavier. The central government's Air Quality Early Warning System for Delhi said slow winds and ventilation conditions are "extremely unfavourable" for the dispersion of pollutants. This will lead to further deterioration of the air quality, the agency said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-410
16-01-2021||India||Ram Nath Kovind donates money for Ayodhya Ram temple construction||President Ram Nath Kovind on Friday donated Rs 500,100 towards the construction of a Ram temple in Ayodhya. The temple is to come up at the same spot where the Babri Masjid stood before being razed by a Hindutva mob in 1992. A delegation of Vishwa Hindu Parishad international working president Alok Kumar and Govind Dev Giri, treasurer of the Shri Ram Janmabhoomi Teerth Kshetra Trust tasked with building the Ram temple, met the President to seek his blessings for a countrywide Sangh parivar donation drive that began on Friday to facilitate the construction. Outside Rashtrapati Bhavan, the delegation members displayed the cheque signed by the President. “He is the First Citizen of the country, so we went to him to initiate the drive. He donated a sum of Rs 500,100,” Kumar told reporters. There was no official communication from Rashtrapati Bhavan on the donation. Nor did the President’s official Twitter handle post any pictures of the meeting. Officials at Rashtrapati Bhavan said the President’s contribution was a personal one. Madhya Pradesh chief minister Shivraj Singh Chouhan handed over a cheque for Rs 1 lakh as his donation. “This is not only a Ram temple, it’s a national temple,” Chouhan said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-410
16-01-2021||India||Protesting farmers complain about witch-hunt||The Samyukta Kisan Morcha (SKM) on Friday asked the Narendra Modi government to stop using the National Investigation Agency (NIA) to target those helping the farmers sustain their protest and making contributions to the families of those who died during the movement. This was forcefully taken up by farmer organisations during their ninth meeting with the government interlocutors on the three farm laws. The SKM delegates said transporters who had given their buses to ferry people to and from the protest sites were being targeted by the NIA. Cases with grave charges were being registered against nearly 100 farmers involved in the vandalism of the stage prepared for Haryana chief minister M.L. Khattar’s “kisan panchayat” in Kaimal village of Karnal on Sunday, they added. According to farmer union leaders, the ministers at first sought to blame the state government for bus owners being targeted but they were given a fact-check. “We told them that this was being done by the NIA, which comes under the Centre. The NIA has been visiting their houses and also the house of those who had contributed towards compensation for the martyrs. ‘What is this, if not revenge? Is this the way a government should be behaving with people who are protesting peacefully in a democracy?’ we asked,” All India Kisan Sabha general secretary Hannan Mollah told The Telegraph. Underlining that buses are used by organisers for Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s rallies, too, the union leaders said the targeting of the facilitators was essentially an attempt by the government to weaken the movement after efforts to discredit the protesters with all sorts of name-calling had failed. The ministers, according to Kavita Kuruganti of the Mahila Kisan Adhikaar Manch, said they would address this issue as well as the disruption of a farmers’ protest by BJP and Bajrang Dal workers in Andhra Pradesh. At the meeting, the union leaders rejected the government’s proposal to leave to the Supreme Court the matter of repealing the three farm laws enacted by Parliament, calling it an abdication of responsibility by the Centre. “These laws were made by Parliament, and they should be repealed by Parliament,” the SKM said after the meeting, during which the ministers again pushed for amendments to the three laws. The government tried to convince the union leaders to set up an informal committee themselves and present a coherent legal view of the laws and their expectations from the government. “They can give us a proposal and we will discuss it with an open mind. We have acknowledged many of their apprehensions and given them a written suggestion also, but they rejected it,” agriculture minister Narendra Singh Tomar told reporters after the meeting.     The union leaders said they had made their position clear to the government not once but several times and that they had only one demand on the farm laws: repeal them. “The government must understand that it is not the union leaders who got such a large gathering of farmers out to protest. It is the farmers who forced the union leaders to do this. The government should recognise the groundswell of opinion against these laws,” a union leader said. Tomar said the government would present its case before the Supreme Court-appointed committee, adding that everyone should respect the directions of the court in a clear reference to the decision of the SKM not to engage with the process. He wanted to know when the farmers intended to call off their protest, questioning the rationale in discussing minimum support price when the farmers were stuck on repealing the three farm laws. “It was clarified that both are equally important demands, and the next meeting’s agenda was fixed on both these points, and not just one or the other,” Kavita said. The unions also explicitly told the ministers that the ongoing movement had nothing to do with the US-based pro-Khalistani group, Sikhs for Justice (SFJ), and “therefore, there should be no projection from the government’s side that they are involved”. Since the beginning of this week, a mail purportedly from the SFJ, which is banned in India, has been received by some journalists, offering a cash prize of $250,000 for anyone hoisting the Khalistani flag at India Gate on January 26 and legal assistance to secure such a person asylum in the UK. The government’s ecosystem has used this to build a narrative against the farmers’ movement. The farmers see this as another attempt to discredit the movement but are trying to ensure that no mischief is created in this guise. They know their struggle is at a crucial stage and the government would try to use any incident to build a case for their removal from the protest sites ahead of Republic Day, when they plan a Kisan Parade after the official event not just in Delhi but across the country.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-410
16-01-2021||India||Covid-19 vaccine private-govt split worries doctors||The nationwide Covid-19 vaccination drive starts on Saturday amid speculation among some doctors whether the home-grown vaccine, which is yet to prove its efficacy, is being sent to public institutions that have fewer opportunities to question the decision. The doctors who have questioned the inclusion of the home-grown Covaxin from Bharat Biotech alongside the AstraZeneca-Oxford vaccine at the start of the inoculation campaign say the proposed split of the two vaccines in Delhi has amplified their concerns. Six government hospitals in Delhi will receive Covaxin while all the 42 private hospitals will receive the AstraZeneca-Oxford vaccine, Covishield, produced in India by the Serum Institute of India, according to a document received by the sites. While government district hospitals will also receive Covishield with the private hospitals, the public hospitals to receive Covaxin are the All India Institute of Medical Sciences, Safdarjung Hospital, Ram Manohar Lohiya Hospital, Kalawati Saran Hospital and two Employees State Insurance hospitals. The Union health ministry has not explained the criteria adopted to decide how the 11 million doses of Covishield and 5.5 million doses of Covaxin that have been ordered to initiate the vaccination campaign would be split between the states or between the hospitals within a state. Multiple messages this newspaper sent to health officials asking about the criteria have remained unanswered. How the vaccines are split assumes significance because, several doctors and researchers said, many among them are unconvinced about the wisdom of introducing Covaxin before waiting for efficacy results that they expect to emerge in another two months. In Tamil Nadu, the state government doctors’ association has circulated a note to its 20,000-odd members recommending that all practising doctors go for vaccination and “insist on Covishield” until the efficacy results of Covaxin are out. “These are suggestions for doctors in government service in the state. Vaccination is voluntary, the choice remains with the individual,” N. Ravishankar, a doctor at the Government Medical College in Coimbatore and the association’s secretary, told The Telegraph. “We’re not opposed to Covaxin — all we’re pointing out is the absence of evidence for efficacy.” India’s drug regulatory authority on January 3 accepted the recommendations of an expert panel and approved restricted emergency use of Covaxin on the basis of its safety and its capacity to generate an immune response. Covishield’s efficacy has been proved in trials outside India. Health officials have over the past week underlined the safety and immunogenicity of Covaxin and defended the accelerated approval, citing the daily lives lost to Covid-19. But several doctors have told this newspaper they do not understand the haste to release the vaccine. A senior medical doctor from a government academic institution told this newspaper: “Vaccination campaigns should be based on trust. I’m worried that this campaign being rolled out could erode gains that India has made over the decades through vaccines.” The health ministry has signalled that the recipients will have no choice over the vaccine. The inoculation campaign will start on Saturday at 3,006 vaccination sites across the country. Each site has been asked to cap the number of inoculations to around 100 per day. During the campaign’s first stage, around 10 million healthcare workers are expected to receive the vaccines. This is expected to be followed by the inoculation of 20 million frontline public workers. The vaccine options are under discussion in medical circles across the country. “Many, particularly the younger lot, seem to wish to wait for the efficacy results to come out,” a doctor-researcher said, describing the exchanges among peers. Many researchers believe that the haste to roll out Covaxin reflects a political desire to launch a home-grown vaccine alongside Covishield, facilitated by officials and researchers willing to play along. “Not waiting for even preliminary efficacy evidence before starting injections of Covaxin looks like one more step in a process that seems more focused on nationalistic brownie points than on substantive public good,” Satyajit Rath, a medical immunologist and adjunct faculty at the Indian Institute of Science Education and Research, Pune, told this newspaper.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-410
16-01-2021||India||Query for Facebook: US fine, what about India?||In Sri Lanka and Myanmar, Facebook kept up posts that it had been warned contributed to violence. In India, activists have urged the company to combat posts by political figures targeting Muslims. And in Ethiopia, groups pleaded for the social network to block hate speech after hundreds were killed in ethnic violence inflamed by social media. For years, Facebook and Twitter have largely rebuffed calls to remove hate speech or other comments made by public figures and government officials that civil society groups and activists said risked inciting violence. The companies stuck to policies, driven by American ideals of free speech, that give such figures more leeway to use their platforms to communicate. But last week, Facebook and Twitter cut off President Donald Trump from their platforms for inciting a crowd that attacked the US Capitol. Those decisions have angered human rights groups and activists, who are now urging the companies to apply their policies evenly, particularly in smaller countries where the platforms dominate communications. “When I saw what the platforms did with Trump, I thought, ‘You should have done this before, and you should do this consistently in other countries around the world,’” said Javier Pallero, policy director at Access Now, a human rights group involved in the Ethiopia letter. “Around the world, we are at the mercy of when they decide to act.” “Sometimes they act very late,” he added, “and sometimes they act not at all.” David Kaye, a law professor and former UN monitor for freedom of expression, said political figures in India, the Philippines, Brazil and elsewhere deserved scrutiny for their behaviour online. But he said the actions against Trump raised difficult questions about how the power of American Internet companies was applied, and if their actions set a new precedent to more aggressively police speech around the world. “The question going forward is whether this is a new kind of standard they intend to apply for leaders worldwide, and do they have the resources to do it?” Kaye said. “There is going to be a real increase in demand to do this elsewhere in the world.” Many activists singled out Facebook for its global influence and not applying rules uniformly. They said that in many countries it lacked the cultural understanding to identify when posts might incite violence. Too often, they said, Facebook and other social media companies do not act even when they receive warnings. In many countries, there’s a perception that Facebook bases its actions on its business interests more than on human rights. In India, home to Facebook’s most users, the company has been accused of not policing anti-Muslim content from political figures for fear of upsetting the government of Prime Minister Narendra Modi and his ruling party. “Developments in our countries aren’t addressed seriously,” said Mishi Choudhary, a technology lawyer and founder of the Software Freedom Law Centre, a digital rights group in India. “Any takedown of content raises the questions of free expression, but incitement of violence or using a platform for dangerous speech is not a free speech matter but a matter of democracy, law and order.” New York Times News Service||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-410
16-01-2021||India||Odisha minister Naba Kishore Das’s cars worth Rs 24 crore||Odisha health minister Naba Kishore Das has a penchant for new cars, which has come to light after he submitted his list of properties. Das and his family own a fleet of vehicles, including a Mercedes-Benz. In sharp contrast, chief minister Naveen Patnaik only has a 1980-make Ambassador. Das has purchased all the vehicles within a span of two years between 2018 and 2020. The minister, who hails from the industrial town of Jharsuguda in western Odisha, owns properties worth Rs 34 crore. A businessman, Das had joined the BJD just before the elections after quitting the Congress, of which he was then an MLA. All these vehicles are valued at Rs 24.69 crore and price of the Mercedes-Benz alone is Rs 1.96 crore. Das owns immovable properties worth over Rs 1.81 crore, while his wife Minati Das owns immovable properties worth Rs 1.74 crore. Asked about how he came to own such a large fleet of vehicles, Das told The Telegraph: “My family has several businesses. My son is also into business. We all pay income tax. We are into several businesses, including transport and hotel. What is wrong in owning multiple vehicles?” Das said his family business was flourishing. Besides movable and immovable properties and fixed deposits, he has three licensed guns, including a .32 revolver, a 12-bore gun and a 22-bore rifle. Das has properties in Delhi, Calcutta and other parts of Odisha. A law degree holder, Das started his political career with the Students’ Federation of India (SFI). He represented Jharsuguda constituency in 2009 and was re-elected in 2014.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-410
16-01-2021||India||Nitish Kumar loses cool over inquiries on crime||Bihar chief minister Nitish Kumar on Friday lost his temper and entered into a spat with mediapersons after they asked questions about the rise in crimes in the state. He also questioned the political affiliations of the reporters instead of replying to their queries, accused them of asking wrong and inappropriate questions, and trying to demoralise the police force. “Your questions are wrong and completely inappropriate. You are a great person! How can I even talk to you? Whose supporter are you? I am asking you directly. Why don’t you highlight the crimes that happened during the 15-year reign of husband and wife (read RJD chief Lalu Prasad Yadav and his wife Rabri Devi and their rule between 1990 and 2005),” an enraged Nitish screamed at the top of his voice after being questioned by a senior journalist from a news channel (NDTV). Nitish went on to insinuate that the journalist was friendly with the Opposition leaders, who were behind the increasing incidents of crime. “You should also pay attention to your special counsellor and provide him some training. Also, find out who commits the crime and the identity of such people,” Nitish yelled, before the hangers-on started shouting slogans in his favour. Nitish was speaking at a function to inaugurate the first phase of an expressway built at a cost of Rs 380 crore in Patna connecting with north Bihar, when mediapersons hurled questions pertaining to the murder of IndiGo airlines station manager Rupesh Kumar Singh and gang rapes, towards the fag end of his address. They also sought to know the reasons behind the police’s inability to control crime. Rupesh was shot dead in the basement of his apartment on Tuesday evening and the police are yet to ascertain the motive behind the crime and the perpetrators. Nobody has been arrested in connection with the incident so far. Bihar is witnessing a spate of serious crimes like murder, rape, kidnapping, loot and extortion on a daily basis due to which the people are constantly worried and afraid. Incidentally, Nitish holds the home portfolio, under which the police department falls. “Do not forget how much action is being taken against crime. Anybody’s murder is unfortunate. The criminals do not commit crime after taking permission from anybody. Do not demoralise the police force like this. They are working. Bihar is at the 23rd position in crime among the states in the country,” Nitish said, while asking Bihar to be compared with other states. The chief minister also asked mediapersons to “share clues with the police if they have and don’t demoralise the police force”. However, he was told that even director-general of police S.K. Singhal does not take calls of the journalists. Nitish then talked to him and directed him to publicise his contact numbers and respond to calls by the mediapersons. Meanwhile, leader of the Opposition Tejashwi Prasad Yadav said Nitish’s outburst on being grilled over the deteriorating law and order situation was “unfortunate” and asserted that the chief minister has “put his hands up and surrendered before criminals”. “Nitish Kumar says nobody can check crime and it used to happen even during the Harappan period. Just compare. He asks mediapersons whether they know the criminals and why they commit crimes,” Tejashwi said. Even ally BJP has been questioning the deteriorating law and order situation. BJP state unit president Sanjay Jaiswal, Rajya Sabha member Gopal Narayan Singh, several legislators and leaders have expressed concern over the increasing incidents of crime. Many leaders of Nitish’s Janata Dal United and the BJP are of the opinion that the rot of corruption has compromised the entire police force and its rank and file was busy making money.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-410
16-01-2021||India||Odisha farmers head to Delhi ||Nearly 500 farmers boarded buses for Delhi from Lower PMG Square near the Odisha Assembly on Friday to join their brethren braving the winter chill in the national capital to protest against the new farm laws. The bunch appeared to be in high spirits with even the older ones among them confident of victory of the farmers in their agitation. Surendranath Maharana, 70, who has lost a few of his teeth, said he was not bothered about the winter in Delhi. “Just give your phone number. I will give a call when I return from Delhi. I will return only after we emerge victorious,” he said. Asked whether he was carrying any medicines with him , Maharana said: “Believe me, I am fit and fine. I am not bothered about my health at this moment. I am not carrying a single medicine even for cold. I will be back to Odisha again. Don’t worry.” They left for Delhi after attending a state-level farmers’ convention organised by the Naba Nirman Krushak Sangathan, a farmers’ organisation. Maharana was very critical about the government’s move to impose the new laws. “Thanks to the Supreme Court. It has finally intervened. Now the Centre should repeal the farm laws immediately. They had planned to implement the laws during the current pandemic crisis and thought no one would protest,” he said. He also showed this reporter how he was carrying only a sweater, a blanket and a muffler to beat the cold. “It’s your conviction, mental strength and the willingness to fight for a cause that would give you the courage to go to Delhi at this age,” said the septuagenarian. Another farmer, Duryodhana Lenka, 56, intervened and said: “We are not even bothered about the Covid threat at this moment. It’s better to die rather than to lose our livelihood forever. The way East India Company entered India and monopolised the entire business and administration, now the big private players are taking the help of the government and are trying to replicate it. We are not ready to hand over our age-old livelihood to the traders.” Farmer Guaranga Jena alleged: “Those who framed the laws have little knowledge about the ground realities. They framed the laws sitting inside AC chambers taking the traders’ interests into account. They have not seen the vagaries and wrath of nature and how the farmers are facing problems.” The farmers who are going to Delhi have contributed Rs 2,000 each. “They have made this contribution and those who are not going have also donated for the cause,” said Naba Nirman Krushak Sangathan convener Akshaya Kumar. He said: “We have made all arrangements for the travel of our brothers. As per the route plan, we will go via Kharagpur, Ranchi, Varanasi, Lucknow and later reach Delhi. Today, nine buses and some four-wheelers have left for Delhi. Many others would follow us from different parts of the state. We will leave Delhi on January 29 after attending the parallel parade by farmers on Republic Day.” The journey to Delhi was flagged off by former Union minister Braja Kishore Tripathy. The state Congress unit on Friday also organised a demonstration demanding the repeal of the farm laws and lodged their protest against rising petrol and diesel prices. Later a delegation led by PCC president Niranjan Patnaik met the governor and submitted a memorandum.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-410
16-01-2021||India||Rahul Gandhi: Modi stuck, being remote-controlled||Rahul Gandhi on Friday warned that if the government could not be thwarted over the farm laws, its next targets would be other sectors and Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s capitalist friends would “snatch away whatever belongs to the people”. Rahul, who led the Congress’s nationwide agitation on “Kisan Adhikar Divas”, featuring marches to Raj Bhavans, claimed the farmers had understood the sinister game but the rest of India hadn’t. “The day India’s food security is destroyed, India’s freedom is gone. Modi and his capitalist friends are on one side and India is on the other. The farmers have understood this and that’s why they have risen against it,” he said. “Hindustan hasn’t understood this yet. Hindustan doesn’t understand that if the farmers’ freedom is gone, the next step will be (against the) middle class, workers…. If we don’t stop the government now, this will escalate. India will have to realise this today or tomorrow or the day after. I will keep repeating this till they understand. “Modi and his capitalist friends are going to snatch away whatever belongs to the people. There are only four-five people who control every sector — media, IT, retail, power…. Airports, ports, everything is controlled by them with Modi’s help. “Modi doesn’t understand India. He thinks three-four industrialists run the country. This is superficial thinking. This country is run by kisan-mazdoor. The youth runs this country.” Rahul had joined a sit-in protest by Congress MPs from Punjab at Jantar Mantar after police prevented a large crowd of party workers from surrounding Raj Bhavan. He sought to question Modi’s understanding of basic aspects of governance. “One senior leader who had discussed farming with Modi told me once that he believes rice and wheat can be purchased from other countries if these are not cultivated in India. This is a fundamental misunderstanding,” he said. “India got freedom in 1947 but who maintained the freedom? The farmers sustained the freedom, not Adani-Ambani. These laws are not for farmers but meant to finish the farmers.” Rahul claimed that Modi had begun his assault on the farmers much earlier — at the time when he tried to kill the Land Acquisition Act, which stipulated strict conditions for any land acquisition. “The talks (with the protesting farmers) are aimed at buying time. Modi has failed to assess the strength of the farmers, he thinks they will get tired and run away in two-three months. The farmers won’t go back. Modi will have to run away. These laws will have to be scrapped,” he said. Asked why the Prime Minister might have failed to express sympathy over the death of 70-odd protesting farmers, he said: “Because Modi doesn’t have basic respect for the farmers. One, two or 200 farmers dying will not make any difference to him.” To a question about the “debate” on the farmers’ plan for a tractor rally on Republic Day, he said: “Where is the debate; what debate? There is just one loudspeaker and that is Modi. If farmers want to parade with their tractors, what is the problem?” Asked about the protesting farmers being called Khalistani, he appeared shocked: “What do they mean — these lakhs of farmers are Khalistani? Their sons protecting our borders, are they sons of Khalistanis?” Rahul accused the media of failing to show the real picture. “The media is controlled by these three-four capitalists. Modi works for them and they show what Modi wants. If Modi won’t work for them, the balloon will burst. In fact, Modi too is stuck. I pity him. He is being remote-controlled.” The Congress organised marches to Raj Bhavan in every state but was foiled by the police in BJP-ruled states. The party, however, mobilised sizeable gatherings everywhere.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-410
16-01-2021||India||India is committed to resolving the border standoff with China: General M.M. Naravane||Army chief General M.M. Naravane on Friday said India was committed to resolving the border standoff with China through military and political efforts but “no one should commit the mistake of testing our patience”. In his address at the Army Day parade, he said: “India had given a fitting response to the conspiracy of attempting to unilaterally change the status quo along the Line of Actual Control where the armies of the two countries have been locked in an impasse since May last year. We are committed to resolve the disputes through talks and political efforts but no one should commit the mistake of testing our patience. I want to assure the country that the sacrifice of the Galwan braves will not go in vain. The Indian Army will not allow any harm to the country’s sovereignty and security.” Twenty Indian soldiers and an unspecified number of Chinese troopers were killed in a violent face-off with the Chinese on June 15 at Galwan Valley in Ladakh. General Naravane said the morale of the Indian troops deployed along the LAC in eastern Ladakh was higher than the mountains they were defending. On the situation along the Line of Control (LoC) with Pakistan, General Naravane said close to 300 to 400 terrorists were present in camps in Pakistan-occupied Kashmir and were planning to infiltrate into India. Earlier this week, the army chief had said India was prepared to hold its ground in eastern Ladakh for “as long as it takes” to achieve the national objectives and his force was alert and ready for any eventuality, but at the same time expressed hope for an amicable solution to the border standoff through the ongoing military talks with China. He had also said that both Pakistan and China posed a “potent threat” to national security and their collusive approach towards India could not be wished away.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-410
16-01-2021||India||EC moves to insulate officers from disciplinary action by states and Union Territories||The Election Commission has moved to insulate its officers from disciplinary action by states and Union Territories ahead of polls to five Assemblies. In a letter, the EC has directed all states and Union Territories to seek its approval before initiating disciplinary action against its senior officials or reducing facilities provided to them. The letter, signed by EC secretary-general Umesh Sinha, has been sent to cabinet secretary Rajiv Gauba, department of personnel and training secretary Ajay Bhalla and all chief secretaries and chief electoral officers, who head the bureaucracy and the election machinery, respectively, in the states and Union Territories. Sinha wrote: “The Commission has noted some instances of victimisation of Chief Electoral Officers, Addl./Joint/Deputy/Assistant Chief Electoral Officer in the post-election period. Many a times they are targeted for political vendetta by charging them with disciplinary cases on flimsy grounds for their earlier tenures in the state government after the completion of their tenure (as election officials). An environment of fear is created to convey that upright, steadfast and sincere officers can be taken to task at any time, on the flimsiest of grounds.” The letter imposes two restrictions on possible action by states and Union Territories against these officers. “(i) The state/UT governments shall invariably obtain prior approval of the Commission if any disciplinary action is initiated against the Chief Electoral Officers and other officers up to Joint Chief Electoral Officer during their tenure and also up to one year from its expiry. (ii) The state/UT government shall not reduce facilities such as vehicle, security and other facilities/amenities provided to the office of the Chief Electoral Officer for proper discharge of his/her duties.” In 2017, the EC had directed the governments of Bihar and Manipur to withdraw disciplinary action against chief electoral officers Ajay Nayak and V.K. Dewangan, respectively. The duo were perceived to have acted tough against alleged undue interference by the two state governments. Several officers had also spoken out against the disciplinary action on Andhra Pradesh chief electoral officer Bhanwar Lal by the then N. Chandrababu Naidu government. The EC’s move is significant in the run-up to polls in Assam, Bengal, Puducherry, Tamil Nadu and Kerala. Bengal is seen as a particularly tough election due to multiple complaints by the state’s Opposition parties against misuse of the state machinery. All three election commissioners are scheduled to visit Assam and Bengal next week, and sources said the poll schedule is expected to be longer than usual in Bengal for higher than usual deployment of central forces as well as crowd-control regulations due to the pandemic.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-411
16-01-2021||India||Nepal prod on equality promise||Nepal on Friday asserted its right to sovereign equality and mutual respect while urging India to receive and implement a 2018 report to review the entire spectrum of bilateral relations that New Delhi also had signed up for during the first visit of Prime Minister Narendra Modi to Kathmandu in 2014. A forceful case for taking forward that commitment was made by Nepalese foreign minister Pradeep Kumar Gyawali during a talk given by him at the Indian Council of World Affairs in New Delhi after raising the unresolved boundary issue during his bilateral engagement with external affairs minister S. Jaishankar. An Eminent Persons’ Group (EPG) had finalised its report in 2018 but India has not accepted it yet, thereby stalling the process of updating the bilateral relationship that New Delhi had committed itself to in 2014. This has become an irritant in the bilateral relationship and Gyawali did not mince words on Friday. Stating that Nepal holds “dearer than anything else the principles of sovereign equality, mutual respect and non-interference”, Gyawali said: “We want to see a 21st-century Nepal-India relationship, which is forward looking and firmly founded on equality, mutual respect, justice and understanding of each other’s concerns and sensitivities. “For that, we should sincerely attend to the issues that we have inherited from the past; address them appropriately and should creatively work out the agendas for the future. With the same objective, we created an Eminent Persons’ Group in 2016 and mandated it to review the entire spectrum of Nepal-India relations and recommend measures to upgrade them in the changed context. The EPG has done its work and our job is to receive their report and implement it.” One of the tasks assigned to the EPG was to recommend inputs for the review of past treaties and agreements, including the Peace and Friendship Treaty of 1950 that democratic Nepal views as an archaic hand-me-down of the former monarch that does not put the country on equal terms with the larger neighbour. “We have agreed to revise, adjust and update the treaty to better reflect the current reality and to further consolidate and expand our friendship. We need to do it sooner than later,” the Nepalese foreign minister said. Gyawali also used the public platform to raise the boundary issue that was prised open in late 2019 after India released new maps showing Kalapani within Indian territory. Nepal came up with a new map of its own, showing Kalapani, Lipulekh and Limpiyadhura as part of its territory though India only recognises that there is an issue on the boundary at Kalapani in Uttarakhand and Narsahi-Susta in Bihar. Without referring specifically to the particularly bitter patch in the relationship last summer when Nepalese Prime Minister K.P. Sharma Oli led the charge with shrill rhetoric and actions, Gyawali said building and nurturing trust was essential to any relationship. “In this spirit, we desire to start the conversation with a view to resolving the question of boundary alignment in the remaining segments.… Finding an agreeable boundary alignment in these segments may not only take us to the stage of a fully settled international boundary but may also help generate a positive vibe in public sentiment as well as help instil a greater degree of trust and confidence in bilateral relations.” The official statements put out by the foreign ministries of the two countries were at variance on the boundary issue and the EPG. The Indian statement makes no mention of the border matter being discussed during the meeting of the India-Nepal Joint Commission (JCM). Neither is there any mention of the EPG. The Nepalese foreign ministry, on the other hand, said: “The meeting discussed the boundary matter and expressed the commitment to early completion of the boundary works in the remaining segments. It also discussed the review of the Peace and Friendship Treaty of 1950, submission of the report of the Eminent Persons Group, and air entry routes.” Nepal has been seeking a meeting of the foreign secretary-level mechanism on the boundary question since 2019 after the Kalapani row, which forefronted an issue that was on the backburner, but India has not committed to a date. On Thursday, when asked at the weekly briefing if the boundary issue will be taken up during Gyawali’s visit, external affairs ministry spokesman Anurag Srivastava had said: “Let me say that the JCM and boundary talks are separate mechanisms.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-411
16-01-2021||India||SC pandemic freeze on physical hearings questioned||Former Supreme Court Bar Association president Vikas Singh on Friday questioned the top court’s “unilateral” decision to continue with virtual proceedings instead of resuming physical hearings despite all other sectors in the country having gradually returned to normal functioning. In a letter to Chief Justice of India S.A. Bobde and others, the senior advocate said the pandemic-related freeze on physical hearings since last March had caused immense hardship to litigants and advocates and hamstrung the justice delivery system. “I am deeply concerned with the non-resumption of normal functioning of this institution. Bar and Bench are the two main pillars on which the system of justice stands; however, (the) recent turn of events ha(s) created a situation whereby the interests of the Bar are being neglected and the Bench is taking unilateral decisions with regard to the functioning of the institution,” Singh wrote. The letter was marked to senior Supreme Court judges such as Justices N.V. Ramana, R.F. Nariman, Uday Umesh Lalit, A.M. Khanwilkar, D.Y. Chandrachud and L. Nageswara Rao besides apex court secretary-general Sanjeev S. Kalgaonkar and others. Singh cited Justice Bobde’s recent observation that physical hearing may not resume immediately because of the pandemic situation. “In my view when the entire country is opening up, of course with sufficient safeguards, I see no reason why the Supreme Court which is the foundation of our democratic polity should not resume full normal functioning by putting in place sufficient safeguards for the said opening,” he wrote. “While the judges and the court staff are completely protected being away from the areas where the lawyers, litigants and media come, till date no effort has been (made) to think of a method whereby the number of people entering the court is restricted and normal functioning of courts starts on that basis.” Singh said these were “extraordinary times and accordingly require extraordinary measures”. “The largest stakeholders in the functioning of the Supreme Court are the litigants for whose benefit this entire institution has been created, and while the issue of the pandemic is looming large in this country, the litigants cannot be ignored by the non-functioning of the Supreme Court in a proper manner,” he wrote. Singh regretted that the apex court is not allowing “mentioning” – the practice of orally mentioning matters of urgent public importance before the court — which he said was affecting the justice delivery system. “You will appreciate that mentioning is a very important activity with regard to the accessibility of the Supreme Court at all times and the said activity has never been denied in the functioning of this court right from the inception,” he wrote. “It is a method by which urgent matters which need immediate attention can be brought to the notice of the court for immediate remedial action. When I took up this issue with yourself, I was informed that there are bandwidth issues for allowing mentioning. I personally feel that any technological shortcoming cannot be an impediment in this vital activity. “There are always ways and means to overcome the same. As the CJI court has sat at 12 noon through most of the pandemic, an hour of exclusive sitting for the mentioning could have been provided before the CJI’s court from 10.30am onwards, which is the normal functioning time of the Supreme Court, in which the lawyers/ litigants who have matters listed during the day need not be given access and the entire system be used for the purpose of mentioning only. “In this way it could easily be ensured that matters which need urgent attention are not made to wait unnecessarily and if required, urgent orders can also be passed during mentioning.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-411
16-01-2021||India||Mayawati asks Modi govt to accept farmers’ demands||Mayawati has advised the Narendra Modi government to accept the demands of the protesting farmers because they are aware of what is good and bad for agriculture. “The farmers have organised unprecedented protest at the Delhi borders. Several talks with the government have failed. The central government should accept all the demands of the farmers. It would be better for the government because the farmers know what is good and what is bad for them,” the Bahujan Samaj Party president said at a news meet in Lucknow on Friday on her 65th birthday. She also said the Modi government should provide coronavirus vaccine to every person in the country free of cost. “If the Centre doesn’t agree to my demand, then I would request the state governments to do so. If they all reject my demand, then I would promise the people that the BSP would provide them free vaccine when it comes to power,” she said. She said the BSP would not enter into any alliance for the 2022 Assembly elections in Uttar Pradesh and Uttarakhand. Her party has 18 MLAs in a House of 403 in Uttar Pradesh and none in the Vidhan Sabha of 71 in the hill state. “The BSP will contest on its own in UP and Uttarakhand in next year’s elections. We are not going to ally with any political party. Alliance is mostly harmful for us,” said the four-time former chief minister of Uttar Pradesh. The BSP, the Samajwadi Party and the Rashtriya Lok Dal had fought 2019 Lok Sabha elections together. The BSP had won 10 seats while the SP won five. The RLD got none. While addressing a news conference the same day last year,  Mayawati had asked her followers to vote for the BSP to ensure the chair of the Prime Minister as her birthday gift. Like past years, she also released the new volume (15th) of her book A Travelogue of My Struggle-Ridden Life and BSP’s Movement. The book is not available in the market and nobody knows where to find it.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-411
16-01-2021||India||UP House call for Arvind Kumar Sharma||Arvind Kumar Sharma, a bureaucrat who joined the BJP on Thursday after working closely with Narendra Modi for nearly two decades in his administrative capacity, was on Friday nominated for a Legislative Council berth in Uttar Pradesh by the party. On its own strength, the BJP will be able to get 10 members elected in the January 28 polls. Sharma, an IAS officer who was serving as the micro, small and medium enterprises secretary, took voluntary retirement last week. Before that he had held senior positions in the Gujarat CMO between 2002 and 2014 when Modi was chief minister and in the PMO after the leader took over as Prime Minister. The speculation that Sharma could be made a minister or even a deputy chief minister grew after his Legislative Council nomination. Uttar Pradesh now has two deputy chief ministers — Keshav Prasad Maurya and Dinesh Sharma. According to sources, Maurya doesn’t enjoy a cordial relation with chief minister Yogi Adityanath. Reacting to Sharma’s candidature, Samajwadi Party chief Akhilesh Yadav said: “It is good that someone joined the BJP yesterday and his name was announced as a candidate today. Someone was telling me something which could be wrong or right…. the CM should also become a member of the BJP now.” Several leaders across parties claim that Adityanath is still not a member of the BJP. Along with Sharma, the BJP also announced the names of deputy chief minister Dinesh Sharma, Uttar Pradesh BJP chief Swatantra Dev Singh and RSS veteran Laxman Prasad Acharya as nominees for the elections. The terms of 12 members are to end on January 30. The BJP is to choose six more nominees. The Samajwadi Party has fielded senior leaders Ahmad Hasan and Rajendra Chaudhary. However, the party has 49 MLAs whereas the votes of 32 legislators are needed to elect one Legislative Council member. BSP chief Mayawati has said her party will support the BJP or any other party to defeat the SP’s nominees.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-411
16-01-2021||India||JNU veil on exam outsource deal to National Testing Agency||JNU has thrown a veil over a two-year-old deal under which it outsourced its entrance exams to the National Testing Agency, prompting teachers and students to suspect the university has been diverting academic funds to pay the agency. Both the university and the NTA, an autonomous body set up by the central government, have stonewalled RTI applications seeking details of their deal, including the financial terms. A group of JNU teachers, who wish to remain unnamed, had filed the applications last November after the university had for months refused to reveal the terms and conditions of the deal. The JNU teachers’ association on Thursday demanded that the details be made public and alleged that the deal was not preceded by proper discussions at the academic council or the executive council. Till 2018, JNU itself conducted pen-and-paper entrance tests for its MPhil-PhD, master’s and bachelor’s programmes. Since 2019, the NTA has been holding the exams, now converted into computer-based, objective-type tests. In 2019, the NTA had conducted the tests while JNU teachers prepared the question papers. In 2020, the NTA took over complete control of the process, from preparing the questions to hosting the exams and declaring the results. Till 2018, JNU charged a fee between Rs 250 and Rs 300 per subject for the entrance exams. It spent between Rs 2.5 crore and Rs 3 crore on the conduct of these tests every year while making a surplus of Rs 50 lakh to Rs 1 crore, varsity sources said. In 2019, the NTA announced an exam fee of Rs 800-900 per subject but student protests forced it to stick to the earlier fees of Rs 250-300. Former JNU students’ union president N. Sai Balaji said varsity officials had told him the cost of holding the entrance tests had risen threefold after they became computer-based. Balaji suggested that JNU may be diverting its fellowship and hostel management funds to pay the NTA. “Students entitled to the non-NET fellowship and the Merit-cum-Means Scholarship haven’t received their stipends for the past six months,” he said. “Our hunch is that JNU has diverted the fellowship funds to the NTA for the conduct of the entrance tests. This expenditure could have been avoided had JNU continued to conduct its own tests.” JNU’s one-line reply on December 2 to the RTI application had said: “The information sought is not available with the Admission Branch.” The first appeal was then disposed of with the answer: “Reply has already been provided as per available records. No further information is available.” Moushumi Basu, secretary of the JNU teachers’ association, said: “This is remarkable --- the university doesn’t know how much it has paid or owes the NTA.” The NTA, replying to the RTI application filed with it, referred to a letter sent by the JNU administration in December 2018 about the outsourcing of the entrance tests, but was silent on the details sought. Nor did it provide the text of the letter. However, it said it had suffered a “minimum” shortfall of Rs 2.57 crore in revenues from the JNU entrance tests in 2019. It added that the 2020 accounts had not been finalised. “It’s noteworthy that the NTA doesn’t provide a precise figure even for 2019 but only says the shortfall was a ‘minimum’ Rs 2.57 crore,” Basu said. “Whether JNU is expected to compensate the NTA for this shortfall or whether the NTA is going to foot this expenditure is not clear.” Basu said an appeal would be filed with the NTA, and another with the Central Information Commission in connection with the JNU’s failure to reveal the deal’s details. Emails sent to vice-chancellor M. Jagadesh Kumar and the NTA seeking the reasons for the shroud over the details of the deal brought no response.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-411
16-01-2021||India||Yediyurappa ‘CD’ murmurs in party||A mystery “CD” has become the hot topic in Karnataka’s political circles with BJP lawmakers miffed over being ignored for ministerial berths and also the Opposition accusing chief minister B.S. Yediyurappa of being stung by a video clip on an unspecified questionable deed. While the allegation was raked up by the chief minister’s arch rivals in the party, Basangouda Patil Yatnal and A.H. Vishwanath, after realising that their names were missing from the list of seven lawmakers inducted into the cabinet on Wednesday, the CD allegation has since gathered momentum. The so-called “CD” could well be a euphemism for a secretly recorded audio or video clip that was now being purportedly used to blackmail Yediyurappa. Neither Yatnal not Vishwanath has revealed what exactly was the CD all about. But some Opposition sources claimed that there were a few “video clips” on some illegal financial transactions that could put Yediyurappa on a sticky wicket. Yatnal claimed that Yediyurappa’s grandchildren had clandestinely recorded his “ill-deeds”. “These recordings have fallen into the hands of some Congress leaders and some of our own lawmakers,” he told reporters. Asked if he had any of the recordings, Yatnal quipped: “I would be deputy chief minister if I had.” Yatnal had earlier demanded the chief minister’s resignation after Karnataka High Court last week dismissed Yediyurappa’s plea to quash criminal proceedings against him in a land scam and instead slapped a fine of Rs 25,000 on him. Vishwanath had questioned some of the choices for ministerial assignments and wondered if Yediyurappa was being blackmailed. Neither Yediyurappa nor the BJP’s top leadership has uttered a word on the allegations swirling around the “CD”. Karnataka Congress president D.K. Shivakumar said the BJP should be called “Blackmailers’ Janata Party” based on what its own lawmakers have alleged. “I was not taken seriously when I said a CD was behind the suicide attempt by his (Yediyurappa’s) aide some time ago. But even their own party leaders are saying the same thing now,” Shivakumar told reporters. The chief minister’s political aide, N.R. Santosh, had allegedly attempted suicide in November 2020, but later claimed he had accidentally swallowed some tablets without realising they were sleeping pills. Santosh had played a key role in destabilising the Janata Dal Secular-Congress coalition government headed by H.D. Kumaraswamy in 2019 by luring 17 lawmakers to the BJP.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-411
