17-01-2021||India||Tractor rally on Republic Day will be held as scheduled, say farmers||Protesting farmers’ unions on Sunday said they will not call off their proposed tractor parade in Delhi when India will celebrate Republic Day on January 26. Union leader Yogendra Yadav, addressing a press conference at the Singhu border in Delhi, said, “We will carry out a tractor parade on the Outer Ring Road in Delhi on Republic Day. The parade will be very peaceful. There will be no disruption of the Republic Day parade. The farmers will put up the national flag on their tractors.” The authorities had moved the Supreme Court seeking an injunction against the proposed tractor march or any other kind of protest by farmers which seeks to disrupt the gathering and celebrations of Republic Day on January 26. The matter is pending in court. Another farmer union leader, Darshan Pal Singh, alleged that the National Investigation Agency (NIA) is filing cases against those who are part of the protest or supporting it. “All farmer unions condemn this,”  Pal said, referring to the NIA summons reportedly issued to a farmer union leader in a case related to the banned Sikhs For Justice outfit. Earlier in the day, Union Agriculture Minister Narendra Singh Tomar again urged the protesting farm leaders to give up their “stubborn” stand on the new farm laws and come for a clause by clause discussion. His comment came ahead of the big day on January 19, when the farmers will meet the three central ministers for the tenth time at the Vigyan Bhawan, while the Supreme Court appointed panel will conduct its first meeting at the Pusa campus in New Delhi. Now that the Supreme Court has stayed the implementation of these laws, then there is no question of being stubborn,” Tomar told reporters before leaving for his home constituency of Morena in Madhya Pradesh. The government wants farmer leaders to come for clause by clause discussion at the next meeting on January 19. Except for the demand of repealing the laws, the government is ready to consider “seriously and with an open heart” other alternatives, he said. The Supreme Court on January 11 had stayed the implementation of the three laws till further orders and appointed a four-member panel to resolve the impasse. Tomar said the government offered certain concessions, but the farmer leaders have not shown flexibility and were constantly demanding a repeal of the laws. He reiterated that the government makes laws for the entire country. Many farmers, experts and other stakeholders have supported the laws. So far, the nine rounds of formal talks between the Centre and 41 farmer unions have failed to yield any concrete results to end the long-running protest at Delhi’s borders as the latter have stuck to their main demand of a complete repeal of the three Acts. Thousands of farmers, mainly from Punjab, Haryana and western Uttar Pradesh, have been protesting at various border points of Delhi for over a month now demanding repeal of the three laws -- the Farmers’ Produce Trade and Commerce (Promotion and Facilitation) Act, the Essential Commodities (Amendment) Act, and the Farmers (Empowerment and Protection) Agreement on Price Assurance and Farm Services Act.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-406
17-01-2021||India||Delhi schools prepare to open the doors to classes 10, 12 students on Jan 18||Staggered and shorter class hours, frequent sanitisation, and entry and exit through multiple gates are among various new ways adopted by schools in Delhi as they prepare to welcome students of classes 10 and 12 back on Monday, for the first time since the Covid-19 pandemic forced closure of educational institutes in March last year. The Delhi government has allowed all schools outside Covid-19 containment zones to reopen for classes 10 and 12 from January 18 in view of board exams. However, it made clear that physical attendance is not compulsory and students will attend schools only with the consent of parents. The Directorate of Education (DoE) has instructed schools to follow all Covid-19 guidelines when classroom studies resume. A representative at Greenwood Public School said, "We are calling students in slots -- half of the students in a class will be in classroom while another half will be in the laboratory to conduct practical lessons. We have sent out consent forms to all parents and the number of students willing to come to school is high." According to Alka Kapur, Principal of Modern School in Shalimar Bagh, the safest way for students to commute to school would be in private vehicles of their parents and guardians. "There are a number of steps that the school authorities will take to ensure that the students stay safe from the infection," she said. Allowing 15 students at a time in a classroom, placing handwashing consoles and sanitiser dispensers in corridors, deploying volunteers to ensure social distancing and conduct temperature checks, and keeping medical facilities on standby for any eventuality are among various other initiatives planned by schools. Schools are also working out plans to ensure students who choose not to come to campus, do not miss out on anything. Priyanka Barara, Principal of MRG School in Rohini, said while the government has made optional for parents to send their wards to school, it is recommended that they come for better preparations for board exams. Ashok Pandey, Director of Ahlcon International School, said not more than 10 students will be allowed in laboratories at a time. The Union education ministry has already announced that board exams for classes 10 and 12 will be conducted from May 4 to June 10, even though the Central Board of Secondary Education (CBSE) is yet to release an examination date-sheet. Over three lakh students have registered from the Delhi region for the Class 10 CBSE board exam, while over 2.5 lakh candidates have enrolled themselves for the class 12 exam. The Delhi government has suggested that schools conducted pre-board exams for class 12 from March 20 to April 15 and for class 10 from April 1 to April 15. Schools were closed in March last year before a nationwide lockdown was announced to contain the spread of the novel coronavirus.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-407
17-01-2021||India||Will poor and underprivileged get COVID-19 vaccine for free? asks Congress||A day after India rolled out the world’s largest inoculation drive against COVID-19, the Congress on Sunday asked whether the government plans to provide free vaccines to all Indians, especially the underprivileged and the poor, and when. Congress chief spokesperson Randeep Surjewala said that though the government claims it will cover three crore people in the first round of the vaccination drive, it is yet to clarify if the remaining population of India will get a vaccine and whether they will get it for free. “Is the government not aware that 81.35 crore people are eligible for subsidised ration under the Food Security Act? Will the SC, ST, BC, OBC, BPL, APL, the poor and the underprivileged get the vaccine for free or not? If yes, what is the roll-out plan and by when will the government ensure free vaccination,” he asked? “Prime Minister Narendra Modi and the BJP government need to answer...Who will get free corona vaccine? How many people will get the free corona vaccine? Where will you get free corona vaccine,” he said. Surjewala also raised questions over the pricing of the two vaccines -- Covaxin developed by Bharat Biotech and Covishield from the Oxford/AstraZeneca stable manufactured by the SII -- approved for emergency use in India and asked why the government has not put them in the National List of Essential Medicines. The Congress general secretary asked why the government should pay Rs 95 more to Bharat Biotech for a vaccine that has been developed with the expertise and experience of Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR) scientists. “Should the price of such a vaccine not be cheaper than the AstraZeneca-Serum Institute? Why is the price of corona vaccine Rs 1,000 per dose in the open market,” he asked. He said the government should demand transparency from companies on the cost of production and profits being made from the vaccine. “Vaccine development and mass immunizations were neither events now publicity stunts, but important milestones in the service of the people. “While India stands united in providing immunisation against the coronavirus to our frontline corona warriors -- doctors, health workers, police personnel and others -- let's remember that vaccinations are an important public service and not a political or business opportunity,” he told reporters at a press conference. The first COVID-19 vaccine shots in India were given on Saturday to nearly two lakh frontline healthcare and sanitation workers as Prime Minister Narendra Modi rolled out the world's largest inoculation drive against the pandemic that has caused 1,52,093 deaths and upended millions of lives in the country. Modi asserted that the two vaccines being deployed will ensure a decisive victory for India against the coronavirus. According to the government, the shots will be offered first to an estimated one crore healthcare workers, and around two crore frontline workers, and then to persons above 50 years of age, followed by persons younger than 50 years of age with associated comorbidities. Cost of vaccination of healthcare and frontline workers will be borne by the central government.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-407
17-01-2021||India||SC appointed panel on farm laws to hold first meeting on January 19||Anil Ghanwat, one of the members of the Supreme Court-appointed panel on the three contentious farm laws, said that the board is scheduled to hold its first meeting on January 19 at Pusa campus in New Delhi. On January 11, the top court stayed the implementation of the new, controversial laws,  against which farmers are protesting at Delhi borders for over 50 days now, till further orders and appointed a four-member panel to resolve the impasse. However, Bharatiya Kisan Union president Bhupinder Singh Mann recused himself of the panel days ago. Apart from Ghanwat, agri-economists Ashok Gulati and Pramod Kumar Joshi are the two other panel members. “We are meeting on January 19 at the Pusa campus. Only members will meet to decide the future course of action,” Ghanwat, who is the president of the Shetkari Sanghatana (Maharashtra), told PTI. “One of the four members has backed out of the committee. If the apex court does not appoint a new member, the existing members will continue,” he said about Mann. “The committee has received the terms of reference and will begin the work from January 21 onwards,” he added. On questions about the government holding talks with the farmers parallely after the appointment of the panel by the SC, Ghanwat said, “We have no issue if a solution is found and the protests end from either (efforts of) our panel or from the government's separate talks with the protesting farmer unions.” “Let (Government) them continue the discussion, we have been given a duty and we will focus on that,” he remarked. The Supreme Court is scheduled to hear on Monday the pleas relating to the controversial farm laws and the ongoing farmers' protest at Delhi borders. It may take into account the matter of recusal of the member from the panel. The top court would also hear the plea of the central government, filed through the Delhi Police, seeking an injunction against a proposed tractor march or any other kind of protest by farmers that may disrupt the Republic Day celebrations on January 26. So far, the government has held nine rounds of formal talks with 41 farmer unions but has failed to break the logjam as the latter have stuck to their main demand of a complete repeal of the three Acts. In the last meeting, the Centre had suggested that the unions constitute their own informal group to prepare a concrete proposal on the three farm laws for further discussion at their next meeting on January 19 to end the long-running protest at various Delhi borders.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-407
17-01-2021||India||One ‘severe’, 51 ‘minor’ cases of complications in Delhi on V-day||Delhi Health Minister Satyendar Jain on Sunday said one ‘severe’ and 51 other cases of minor AEFI (adverse events following immunisation) were reported among health workers who were administered the coronavirus vaccine in Delhi on Saturday. A security guard of the AIIMS had developed an allergic reaction following his inoculation. An official said on Saturday that he was kept under observation of doctors. “His current status is not known... 51 others were discharged after some time,” Jain said. He also said that some people did not turn up for coronavirus vaccination at the last moment, adding that the government cannot ask anyone to compulsorily take the jab. “Some people decided not to turn up at the last moment. The vaccination programme is completely voluntary. We cannot ask anyone to compulsorily take the shot even if the person has registered for it,” the health minister informed. He also said that the number of vaccination centres in Delhi will be increased from 81 to 175 soon. “The number of vaccination sites will be increased from 81 to 175 in some days. Thereafter, it will be increased to 1,000. It will also include the sites of municipal corporations,” Jain said. In Delhi, a total of 4,319 healthcare workers - 53.3 per cent of those registered - got the vaccine shots on the first day of the Covid-19 vaccination drive on Saturday, the minister said. Jain noted that a similar trend was observed across the country, adding that around 50 per cent of those registered got the jabs on the first day. On some political parties questioning the efficacy of the vaccines, Jain said the Centre gave permission for emergency use of the vaccines after completing a rigorous process. “All protocols were followed. So, there should be no questions about it,” he said. The health minister added that the Covid-19 positivity rate in the national capital has come down to 0.44 per cent. “The coronavirus positivity rate has remained below 0.5 per cent for the last few days. We can comfortably say that the third wave is on the wane. Cases have decreased. Still, I want to appeal to people to take precautions and use masks,” he said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-407
17-01-2021||India||Delhi's transport department firming up 'rent a bike' scheme||Tourists in the national capital may soon enjoy rides on rented two-wheelers as the Delhi government's transport department is firming up a scheme to issue licences for 'rent a bike' services in the city, officials said. A presentation of the draft scheme is likely to be made before the transport minister next week for further discussions, a senior transport department officer said. "The presentation was scheduled earlier this month but it was postponed. Now it will be held next week. The draft proposal for bike rental service will require the approval of the State Transport Authority (STA)," he said. The proposed scheme stipulates issuance of licences to applicants having a minimum of five bikes with necessary permits and insurance cover, and sound financial condition to ensure maintenance of the vehicles and efficient management of the establishment, the officer said. Under the scheme, licences will be issued to eligible bike operators by the STA to engage in the bike renting business. The applicants for proposed 'rent a bike' scheme will also require to have necessary facilities for the housing, maintenance and repair of vehicles, sanitary block, reception room and 24x7 telephone connectivity. The licence period issued to the eligible bike operators will be five years. The licence fee under the scheme is yet to be decided, officials said. The operators of bikes will also require to maintain records of hiring along with particulars of the hirer. Separate records will have to be maintained for Indian and foreign nationals, as per the draft of the scheme. The holder of a licence under the scheme will collect the hire charges from a foreign national or NRI only in foreign exchange. The licensing authority will have the power to cancel or suspend the licence of an operator if it fails to comply with the provisions of the scheme, including non-maintenance of bikes and misbehaviour with customers.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-407
17-01-2021||India||Shah proposes Centre’s aim to double farmers’ income||Union Home Minister Amit Shah on Sunday reiterated that the three central agri-marketing laws will ensure manifold hike in income of farmers, saying that the prime focus of the BJP-led government was to increase their earnings. The Modi government has increased the budget of the farming sector as well as the minimum support price on several crops since coming to power, he said. “I want to say that if there is any big priority of the Narendra Modi government it is to double the farmers income,” he said at an event in Kerakalmatti village in this district in Karnataka. Speaking after laying the foundation stone and inauguration of farmer-friendly projects of the MRN group, headed by newly inducted Karnataka Minister Murugesh R Nirani, Shah listed out various programmes and initiatives of the central government for the welfare of the farmers. “Chief Minister B.S. Yediyurappa-led BJP government in the state too has not left any stone unturned to work for the welfare of farmers,” the Home Minister said. Questioning the Congress as to why it could not take up measures like Rs 6,000 cash support per year for farmers and Pradhan Mantri Fasal Bima Yojana insurance scheme among others, he said, it was because the party’s intentions were not right. “The Narendra Modi government is a government dedicated to farmers. Three new laws that the Modi government has brought in, which the Karnataka government has also passed…,” Shah said. “I want to congratulate Yediyurappa for it. Farmer’s income will increase multifold due to them,” he added. His remarks came amid the continuing agitation by farmers, especially from Punjab and Haryana, on the borders of Delhi, demanding the repeal of the three laws. “Farmers were not compelled anymore to sell their produce at one place and can get access to global and Indian markets for their crops,” he said. Shah added that none had the courage to abrogate the provisions of Article 370 and Article 35A in Kashmir in the past 70 years. “You made Modi the Prime Minister and on August 5, 2019 he ended Article 370 and Article 35A from Kashmir and connected it with India permanently. Today elections have also happened there peacefully without shedding even a drop of blood and Kashmir has become ours permanently,” he added.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-407
17-01-2021||India||UK Prime Minister invites Modi to G7 summit in June ||Prime Minister Narendra Modi received an invitation to the G7 summit, to be held in the coastal region of Cornwall, Britain, from his UK counterpart Boris Johnson. Giving out details about the high-level event on Sunday, Johnson said that the summit, scheduled between June 11 and 13, will be presided over by Britain. The prime minister  had extended an invitation to Modi during a phone call last year when India was chosen alongside South Korea and Australia as guest countries of the multilateral summit. The invitation was made formal on Sunday. Johnson also said he plans to visit India ahead of the G7 summit. The leader had earlier cancelled his scheduled tour to India on January 26 in the wake of the coronavirus pandemic situation in the country. The Group of Seven or G7 which is made up of the UK, Canada, France, Germany, Italy, Japan and the US is dubbed as an open forum where the world's most influential and open societies are brought together for close-knit discussions, with the pandemic likely to dominate this year's talks. “As the most prominent grouping of democratic countries, the G7 has long been the catalyst for decisive international action to tackle the greatest challenges we face. From cancelling developing world debt to our universal condemnation of Russia's annexation of Crimea, the world has looked to the G7 to apply our shared values and diplomatic might to create a more open and prosperous planet,” Johnson said. “Coronavirus is doubtless the most destructive force we have seen for generations and the greatest test of the modern world order we have experienced. It is only right that we approach the challenge of building back better by uniting with a spirit of openness to create a better future,” he said. The UK Foreign Office notes that as the pharmacy of the world , India already supplies more than 50 per cent of the world’s vaccines, and the UK and India have worked closely together throughout the pandemic. The UK was the first P5 member to support a permanent UNSC (United Nations Security Council) seat for India and the first G7 member to invite India to a G7 Summit in 2005. As current BRICS President and G20 President in 2023, India will play a key role driving in multilateral cooperation helping to build back better around the world, reads the official UK government communique. According to the Foreign Office, the invitation to India, Australia and South Korea is a testament to the UK’s commitment to ensuring multilateral institutions better reflect today’s world. Johnson’s ambition has been laid out as wanting to use the G7 to intensify cooperation between the world's democratic and technologically advanced nations. Between them the 10 leaders represent over 60 per cent of the people living in democracies around the world. Dubbed as the first in-person G7 summit in almost two years, the agenda set out by the UK is to seize the opportunity to build back better from coronavirus, uniting to make the future fairer, greener and more prosperous. Ahead of the gathering of Prime Ministers and Presidents, the UK is also set to host a number of meetings throughout the year between government ministers from the G7, both virtually and in different locations across the UK. These ministerial summits will cover economic, environmental, health, trade, technology, development and foreign policy issues. Cornwall as the location for the summit has been chosen to focus the eyes of the world on the “beautiful, historic and innovative” region. The leaders’ meeting itself will be held in the coastal town of Carbis Bay, supported by neighbouring St. Ives and other towns across the region. In addition to the G7 Summit this year, during February, the UK will assume the Presidency of the UN Security Council, and later this year the UK will host COP26 climate summit in Glasgow and a global education conference aimed at getting children in the developing world into school.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-407
17-01-2021||India||PM Modi flags off 8 new trains to Statue of Unity||Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Sunday flagged off eight trains connecting Gujarat's Kevadia, where the Statue of Unity of Sardar Patel is located, to different regions of the country. Modi said more tourists flock to the Statue of Unity than the Statue of Liberty in the US, adding nearly 50 lakh tourists have visited the former since it opened in 2018. He referred to the Dedicated Freight Corridor project as "an example of the way things functioned in our country in the past." "A few days ago, I inaugurated a large section (of the Dedicated Freight Corridor). On this very important project, in eight years work was done only on paper. From 2006 till 2014, not even one km track was laid. Now, in the next few months, 1,100-km work will be completed," he said. Modi also inaugurated three railway stations and a broad gauge lineconnecting Dabhoi to Kevadia, via video link on Sunday. The prime minister said this is possibly the first time that so many trains were flagged off at the same time for one destination. With increased connectivity, over one lakh people will visit Kevadia daily in the near future, he said citing a survey. The amount of work done to modernise the country's railway infrastructure in recent years is unprecedented, Modi said. Unlike in the past when less focus was given to new ways of thinking and technology, wide changes have been made in the railway system on many fronts, with the government's focus on self-reliance in railway manufacturing and technology being a big reason behind the change, he said. Besides tourists visiting the Statue of Unity, the local populace will be the biggest beneficiary of the new rail connectivity, he said. "Today, Kevadia is no longer a small place in a remote area of Gujarat. It is emerging as the world's biggest tourist destination," he said. Despite everything remaining closed for months during coronavirus pandemic, the number of tourists visiting Kevadia is increasing fast, he added. He said the new Kevadia railway station is an example of his government's efforts to ensure that the Railways remain environment-friendly. "Kevadia station is the country's first to get green building certification from the beginning," he said. The Ahmedabad-Kevadia Jan Shatabdi Express, one of the eight trains, is equipped with the Vistadome coache which offers large viewing areas with rooftop glasses and seats for passengers. Modi said the Vistadome coaches on trains to Kevadia will make the travel attractive. The amount of work done to modernise the country's railway infrastructure in the recent years is unprecedented, he said. Unlike in the past when less focus was given to new thinking and new technology, the approach has changed to make wide changes in the railway system, and changes have taken place at once on many fronts, he said. "With the modernisation of the rail network, parts of the country previously not connected by railway networks are getting connected now. The conversion into broad gauge of old rail routes and electrification is being done much faster than before. "Rail tracks are being made capable for (operating trains at) higher speed. This is the reason it is being made possible to run semi high-speed trains. We are fast moving towards high speed track and technology," Modi said. "Had we not manufactured high horse-power locomotives in India in the past, then could India run the world's first double-stack long-hold container train?" he said. "Today, many modern trains made in India are part of the Indian Railways. As we move towards transformation of the Indian Railways, highly-skilled specialised manpower and transformation skill is vital," he said. The establishment of India's first deemed railway university in Vadodara is a step in the same direction, he added. The eight trains Modi flagged off will connect Kevadia, which is around 200 km from the state capital Ahmedabad, to Varanasi, Dadar in Mumbai, Ahmedabad,Hazrat Nizamuddin in Delhi, Rewa in Madhya Pradesh, Chennai and Pratapnagar in Vadodara. Modi inaugurated new station buildings of Dabhoi, Chandod and Kevadia, Dabhoi-Chandod gauge converted broad gauge rail line of 18 km, Chandod-Kevadia broad gauge rail line of 32 km and the newly electrified Pratapnagar-Kevadia section of 80 km. Modi paid tributes to AIADMK founder M G Ramachandran as he mentioned the train connecting Kevadia to Chennai, which was flagged off from MGR Chennai Central station. "It is a happy coincidence that today is the birth anniversary of Bharat Ratna MGR. From movie screen to political screen, MGR ruled the hearts of people. His life, his entire political journey was dedicated to the poor. "He worked continuously so that the poor could get a respectful life. We all are working to fulfil the ideals of Bharat Ratna MGR. Only a few years ago, the Chennai Central Railway Station was named after MGR. I offer my tributes to MGR," he said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-407
17-01-2021||India||Centre trying to intimidate farmers through central agencies, says SAD chief||Shiromani Akali Dal (SAD) president Sukhbir Singh Badal on Saturday accused the Centre of trying to threaten farmers’ leaders by sending them notices through central bureaus like the National Investigation Agency (NIA). He also alleged that the Centre was being insincere in talks over the farm laws and said the government is only “trying to tire out farmers”. “Simultaneously, it (Centre) is intimidating farmers by issuing notices to them through various agencies like the National Investigation Agency (NIA). Farmers are not anti-nationals. We condemn this,” Badal said. In a tweet, he said, “Strongly condemn Centre's attempts to intimidate farmer leaders & supporters of #KisanAndolan by calling them for questioning by #NIA & ED. They aren't anti-nationals. And after failure of talks for the 9th time, it's absolutely clear that GOI is only trying to tire out farmers.” Punjabi actor Deep Sidhu and farmers’ leader Baldev Singh Sirsa are among the 40 people that the NIA has summoned for quizzing in a case linked to the banned outfit Sikhs For Justice. Sidhu has been asked to appear before the agency’s headquarters in Delhi on Sunday, NDTV reported. Senior Akali leader and former state minister Bikram Singh Majithia also accused the Union government of defaming farmers by calling them naxalites and Khalistanis . He said the SAD had always stood with farmers and quit the National Democratic Alliance when the government refused to listen to them. Badal also slammed Punjab Chief Minister Amarinder Singh, alleging that he has failed to fulfil any of his promises made to people. Badal asked the chief minister to tell one thing he had done for the people of the state in the past four years of his rule. In direct contrast, former chief minister Parkash Singh Badal was responsible for making Punjab power surplus besides bringing in irrigation projects, providing free power for tube wells, creating the ‘mandi’ infrastructure and even ushering in the minimum support price system by taking up the issue with the Centre, he said. All this can be verified, he said, adding that his party's government in the state ensured peace and communal harmony. Meanwhile, former senior Congress leader Manjit Singh Ghaseetpura on Saturday joined the SAD at Ghaseetpura village.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-407
17-01-2021||India||Delhi shivers as mercury dips to 5.7 degrees Celsius||The minimum temperature in Delhi dropped to 5.7 degrees Celsius on Sunday but it is likely to rise over the next two days due to a change in the wind direction, the India Meteorological Department (IMD) said. The national capital had recorded a low of 6.6 degrees Celsius on Saturday. The Safdarjung Observatory, which provides representative data for the city, recorded a minimum temperature of 5.7 degrees Celsius this morning. An IMD official said easterly winds are blowing in Delhi that are not as cold as northwesterly winds coming in from the snow-clad western Himalayas. Hence, the minimum temperature is likely to rise by a few notches over the next two days. It is expected to rise to 8 degrees Celsius on Monday, the official said. Delhi’s air quality index (AQI) improved slightly to the ‘very poor’ category from ‘severe’ on Saturday as favourable wind speed helped in dispersion of pollutants. The city's AQI was 347 at 9 am. The 24-hour average AQI was 407 on Saturday, 460 on Friday, 429 on Thursday, and 354 on Wednesday. An AQI between zero and 50 is considered ‘good’, 51 and 100 ‘satisfactory’, 101 and 200 ‘moderate’, 201 and 300 ‘poor’, 301 and 400 ‘very poor’, and 401 and 500 ‘severe’. Delhi's AQI remained in the 'severe' category for three consecutive days till Saturday due to “extremely unfavourable” conditions for dispersion of pollutants.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-407
17-01-2021||India||India reports single-day spike of over 15,000 Covid-19 cases||The Covid-19 caseload of India climbed to 1,05,57,985 on Sunday with 15,144 fresh infections while recoveries surged to 1,01,96,885, a day after the nationwide vaccination drive kicked off in the country. The death toll increased to 1,52,274 with 181 more fatalities,according to the Union Health Ministry data. The number of people who have recuperated from the disease surged to 1,01,79,715, pushing the national Covid-19 recovery rate to 96.56 per cent, the data updated at 8 am showed. The country's active caseload remained below 3 lakh on Sunday. There are 2,08,826 active cases of coronavirus infection in the country which constitute 1.98 per cent of the total caseload, the data showed.The Covid-19 case fatality rate stands at 1.44 per cent, it said. India’s Covid-19 tally had crossed the 20-lakh mark on August 7, 30 lakh on August 23, 40 lakh on September 5 and 50 lakh on September 16. It went past 60 lakh on September 28, 70 lakh on October 11, 80 lakh on October 29, 90 lakh on November 20 and crossed the one crore-mark on December 19. According to the Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR), 18,65,44,868 samples had been tested up to January 15, with 7,79,377 tested on Saturday alone. The health ministry stressed that more than 70 per cent of the deaths occurred due to comorbidities. “Our figures are being reconciled with the Indian Council of Medical Research,” the ministry said on its website, adding that state-wise distribution of figures is subject to further verification and reconciliation.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-408
17-01-2021||India||Vegetarian wazwan? Kashmiris won’t stomach this||Kashmiris will not stomach any hanky-panky with their cherished spread, the wazwan, a BJP-friendly Bollywood director has learnt the hard way. Vivek Agnihotri, visiting the Valley for the shoot of a film on Kashmiri Pandits, had on Thursday introduced Twitterverse to what he called “vegetarian wazwan” — with an apparent threat to change Kashmiris’ food habits. For many Kashmiris, “vegetarian wazwan” sounded like “cultural invasion”. Wazwan, a multi-course spread, is all about meat, so much so that the vegetable dishes that are part of it are immersed in mutton gravy before being served to guests. In Kashmir, people from all faiths — Muslims, Pandits and Sikhs — relish the wazwan. After social media exploded in outrage, the filmmaker deleted the post while claiming he was doing so because his colleagues had received threats and abuse. Agnihotri, a member of the Central Board of Film Certification, had on Thursday posted pictures showing his team eating vegetarian dishes at a Srinagar hotel. “Nobody knows how to make a vegetarian Wazwan in Kashmir. But I am here to bring about change,” wrote Agnihotri, whose upcoming film, The Kashmir Files, is based on the “unreported story of the most tragic and gut-wrenching genocide of Kashmiri Hindus”. Many saw in Agnihotri’s tweet a design to not just impose “vegetarianism” on Kashmiris — amid the Centre’s alleged moves to change the Muslim-majority character of the region — but also bring caste-based apartheid to Kashmir. The wazwan is not just about the cuisine but also about the way people eat it. Four diners irrespective of faith and origin are together served with the dishes on a big copper plate, called trami, as a statement against caste and class divisions. Fozia S. Qazi, a mathematics professor, posted a picture showing his father sharing the “same food” with a Kashmiri Pandit, a Sikh and a Parsi. “When the wazwan and the custom of eating together was introduced, it was a statement against the harsh and rigorous caste and class divide,” wrote journalist Muzamil Jaleel. “It was and it is a leveller. It was the same principle that makes people stand in a line, shoulder to shoulder, to pray irrespective of who they are/their social status, etc. “Think how revolutionary eating from a single plate with the hand and standing together (shoulder to shoulder) to pray was in an era... when even the shadow of 85 per cent of the population was considered a (source) of ritual pollution.” Author and journalist Gowhar Geelani suggested Agnihotri was on a cultural mission. “Vegetarian narratives. Vegetarian intellect. An intellectually challenged filmmaker, who doesn’t know how to recite a poem and has no idea about the poets, is on a mission Cultural Aggression in Kashmir,” Geelani tweeted. Geelani was referring to a Persian couplet praising Kashmir — “Agar firdaus bar roo-e zameen ast; Hameen asto, hameen asto, hameen ast (If there is paradise on earth, it is here, it is here, it is here)” — that Agnihotri had recited recently. The filmmaker had claimed the poem was written by “Firdaus”, apparently unaware that the word is Persian for “paradise”. Yashraj Sharma, a Twitter user, posted: “Been here for three years — never seen anything more beautiful, and tastier, than a Kashmiri Wazwan. Don’t be a colonialist. And what in hell is that in the plate?! Keep it away.” On Friday night, Agnihotri tweeted: “With deep pain I am deleting this tweet because ever since I posted it, my local guests have come under intense threat, abuse & trolling from evil minds. I had learnt that people who eat together stay together but some people don’t want anyone to stay together. May God bless all.” Some netizens dismissed his claim of threats as propaganda and demanded evidence.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-408
17-01-2021||India||Wife, kids and friends seek release of Kappan||The family of a Malayalam journalist lodged in a Mathura jail for the past three months on what his wife says are false charges staged a sit-in protest in Thiruvananthapuram last week and plans another in a fortnight. Siddique Kappan, 41, was arrested on October 5 while on his way to Hathras in Uttar Pradesh where a Dalit girl had been fatally brutalised. He was accused of being an extremist and charged under the anti-terror law UAPA for allegedly trying to foment trouble. On Tuesday, about 20 people including his wife Raihanath, their three children and a few relatives and neighbours protested in the Kerala capital while honouring the Covid-related prohibition against large gatherings. “The response to our first sit-in protest in Thiruvananthapuram was very good, with relatives and even neighbours joining us. We’ll be organising a similar sit-in demonstration in Malappuram on February 1,” Raihanath told The Telegraph on Saturday. Kappan, a native of Vengara in Malappuram, lived in Delhi and worked for the Malayalam news portal azhimukam.com. He is secretary of the Delhi unit of the Kerala Union of Working Journalists (KUWJ). Uttar Pradesh police have accused Kappan and three others who were travelling with him of being members of the Muslim Right-wing outfit Popular Front of India. “I’m a housewife who has been forced to hit the streets to seek justice for my husband, who has been wrongly accused of links with the PFI. Now it’s up to me and my family to ensure he gets justice,” Raihanath said. She has been trying to secure permission to make a video call to her husband so he can see his 90-year-old, bedridden mother. “She used to ask for him but now she doesn’t remember much,” Raihanath said. “I had applied thrice online to the jail authorities to let my husband make a video call but there was no response. So, our lawyer filed an application with a Mathura court last week.” Kappan had to wait 43 days for permission to meet his lawyer, arranged by the KUWJ, which has moved a habeas corpus plea with the Supreme Court saying the Uttar Pradesh authorities have not been providing any information about him. Kappan’s family has been made a party to the case. “He is allowed Rs 100 worth of call time a month. He spoke to me last week,” Raihanath said. She acknowledged that there had been considerable improvement in the way Kappan was being treated after the KUWJ approached the apex court. “He has been lodged in a cell with about 75 people, among them men accused of rape and other criminal offences. But at least he is getting his medicines for diabetes,” she said. The matter came up in the Kerala Assembly recently, with several Opposition lawmakers seeking the state government’s intervention. Chief minister Pinarayi Vijayan, however, clarified that the government had its limitations when it came to intervening in court cases. N.K. Premachandran, an RSP lawmaker who had inaugurated the sit-in at Thiruvananthapuram, told this newspaper the chief minister “could at least have written to the Prime Minister seeking a free and fair investigation”. Premachandran, who is part of the Congress-led United Democratic Front, added: “We know the state cannot intervene in a matter before a court. But political intervention is needed since he is a journalist who was arrested while on duty.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-408
17-01-2021||India||Call to veterans to join farmers’ protest||The United Front of Ex-Servicemen has urged veterans and their dependents to extend their support to the farmers’ protest and also join the movement, underlining that over 70 per cent of defence personnel belong to peasant families. In a letter, Maj. Gen. Satbir Singh (retd), adviser to the United Front of Ex-Servicemen and chairman of the Indian Ex-Servicemen Movement, called on veterans to mobilise and extend support to the farmers fighting for repeal of the three new farm laws, which they believe will be their “death warrant”, and a legally guaranteed minimum support price. “Over 70 per cent of the defence personnel belong to farmers’ families, therefore, we the ex-servicemen and our dependents support the farmers in their peaceful protest for the repeal of the three agricultural laws,” the letter dated January 16 said. “In order to showcase our solidarity, all ex-servicemen and their dependents are requested to assemble… at the protest locations from 11am to3 pm at the Singhu border (January 20), Tikri border (January 21) and the Ghazipur border (January 22),” it said. “All ex-servicemen and their dependents are requested to wear their medals/ribbons,” it added. Maj. Gen. Singh also requested veterans to donate as much as possible to the organisers leading the agitation. Around 400 farmers from Kerala have joined the protest near the Rajasthan-Haryana border against the three new farm laws, PTI added. The group reached Alwar’s Shahjahanpur on Friday to participate in the sit-in launched by the Samyukta Kisan Morcha against the Centre’s farm laws, former CPM MLA Amra Ram said. “The farmers are protesting amid intense cold but the Centre is not bothered.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-408
17-01-2021||India||UN voice raps government on Stan Swamy||The United Nations Special Rapporteur on the Situation of Human Rights Defenders, Mary Lawlor, on Friday evening criticised the Indian government’s treatment of human rights activists such as Father Stan Swamy. “India is a State which doesn’t properly protect human rights defenders. I am appalled by the treatment of human rights defenders such as Father Stan Swamy, who embodies solidarity,” Lawlor, an adjunct professor on business and human rights in the School of Business of Trinity College, Dublin, said. She was speaking at an online event on the 100th day since the October 8 arrest of Swamy, an 83-year-old Jesuit priest, by the National Investigation Agency from his Ranchi home. Swamy is one of 16 rights activists, lawyers, writers and academics arrested in the Bhima Koregaon case and charged with Maoist links. He is lodged in a Mumbai jail. “The Working Group on Arbitrary Detention and I had written to the Indian government in November raising concerns over the arrest of human rights activists including Stan Swamy in connection with the Bhima Koregaon case but have not yet received any response,” Lawlor said. “Governments are given a 60-day period during which they are expected to reply.” Lawlor was speaking 73 days after the November 3, 2020, communication was sent to the government. She said that earlier this month (January 11) she had tweeted a copy of the letter, where she described as “arbitrary detention” the arrest of Swamy, working to protect the rights of Adivasis and Dalits since the 1970s. Lawlor said that promoting and protecting human rights in India was challenging, and said the State was responsible for the protection of human rights defenders. Delhi University professor and writer Apoorvanand moderated the discussion. Advocate Mihir Desai and social activists Xavier Dias, Dayamani Barla, Aloka Kujur, Virginius Xaxa and Dorothy Fernandes participated. Dancer and activist Mallika Sarabhai, who performed to Maya Angelou’s poem Still I Rise, said Swamy had done extraordinary work for the poorest and most marginalised. A candlelight vigil was held in Dumka, Jharkhand, on Friday for Swamy’s release.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-408
17-01-2021||India||How we were turned into a nation of elated suckers||They rain fire and brimstone from the patriotism pulpit, shaking and choking in righteous indignation at the violators of the Nation and chewing them up. They are almost always in suits, the enfants terribles of television. They rain fire and brimstone from the patriotism pulpit, trembling and tearing up at the very thought of a wayward glance being cast on Bharat Mata. They are almost always in whites, the perpetual campaigners on one election trail or the other. Both stand exposed — by an insider who has not yet disowned a series of WhatsApp chats attributed to him. The picture that emerges from the court of the Emperor Without Clothes is not pretty: it shows a blood-sucking, wheeling-dealing chummy club that treats the massacre of soldiers on tour of duty with utter disdain. Worse, the deaths are sought to be exploited for scoring professional, if not commercial, bragging points. “This attack we have won like crazy,” a piece of conversation attributed to Goswami boasts. The day and time suggest the reference is to the Pulwama massacre in which 40 CRPF jawans were blown up. The bloodcurdling and celebratory victory whoop stands in sharp contrast to the “stricken” and outraged image that studios populated by Goswami, his brand of nationalists and their ideological masters portray for the benefit of their audience who, presumably, break into matching palpitations, wringing hands and shedding tears for the wounded Nation. The studio mercenaries make mincemeat of anyone seeking transparency and accountability when terrorist strikes so close to electoral exercises take place. Unwittingly, the irrepressible  celebration attributed to Goswami less than three hours after the Pulwama massacre matches the cavalier attitude of the government on the day of the attack. In the immediate aftermath of the blast, Prime Minister Modi, perhaps uninformed, was shooting a jungle adventure in the Corbett Reserve forests.  Unspeakable theatre was taking shape both on the political as well as the propaganda arena so soon after so terrible a tragedy. Whether or not anything substantial comes from the leak of the chats, the fig leaf of the super-patriots has been yanked off. On matters of state, all the players can be expected to brazen it out as they have been doing on other issues — this time aided by the silence of most political parties because of the holy cow called national security. But the chats, which have not been denied more than 24 hours after they hit the public domain, raise unavoidable questions. The chats indicate that highly classified information, including military operations known to a limited number of people in the top echelons of the Narendra Modi government, got leaked. There are at least two instances within a span of six months when Goswami had prior information of major decisions taken by the Modi government — the surgical strike in Balakot and the dilution of Article 370 to strip Jammu and Kashmir of its special status and statehood. When Goswami purportedly tells Dasgupta that “something major will be done this time” to Pakistan, it does not take long for the ex-CEO of BARC to figure out the implications. “It is good for the big man in this season…. He will sweep polls then,” Dasgupta predicts without naming the heavyweight. In less than three months, Modi would indeed sweep the polls and return to power with a brute majority. The Pulwama attack and the Balakot strike were used by the BJP to the hilt, changing the entire narrative of the elections just as it was heating up. The chats attributed to Goswami suggest the Balakot strike was planned not for military reasons — either strategic or tactical — but for national entertainment. “On Pakistan the government is confident of striking in a way that people will be elated,” one message attributed to Goswami says. The message adds: “Exact words used.” The addition makes it clear the objective — national elation — was not an embellished description in an informal chat but exactly what the government was aiming to achieve. A few months later, Goswami claims to “have set platinum standards in breaking and this story is ours” after Dasgupta sends him a news flash on August 2 that says: “Government of India to make Jammu separate state, Kashmir and Ladakh as union territories.” It also says the announcement will be made within a week, curfew will be imposed two days ahead of the order, and Articles 370 and 35A will be automatically abrogated. On August 5, Union home minister Amit Shah introduced the bill to bifurcate the state into two Union Territories. Articles 370 and 35A were declared null and void in the same bill, which was preceded by curfew in the state along with a huge troop build-up. Although the leaked chats, annexed to the Mumbai police chargesheet in the TRP scam case, went viral, most politicians steered clear of them. Prominent among the few exceptions who spoke out was the veteran Congressman and Chhattisgarh minister T.S. Singh Deo. “It’s a major security lapse if our military secrets and strategies on Balakot strike were leaked by someone in Central Govt to pvt players for their benefit. This calls for an investigation & prosecution of culprits. Leaking of classified military information amounts to treason. A so-called journalist knew about what was supposed to be the most classified information & was passing it on further. As outrageous this is, it exposes that these people aren’t concerned about national security and terror attacks are used as propaganda to wield more power,” Deo tweeted. Former external affairs minister Yashwant Sinha, who has parted ways with the BJP, said on Twitter: “I entirely agree with Prashant Bhushan that the Arnab Whatsapp chats reveal a serious lapse in national security. The matter must be investigated by an impartial authority. The govt also appears to be guilty in this matter.” Bhushan, a senior lawyer, had tweeted the leaked chats. For film director Hansal Mehta, what struck most was that “he gloated over dead soldiers. And calls himself a nationalist”. The Telegraph tried to contact both Goswami and the principal director-general, media and communications, Press Information Bureau, of the government for comment but was unsuccessful. Their comments will be published when they respond. February 14, 2019, 3.15pm: 40 CRPF jawans are killed in the Pulwama terror explosion, a little more than two months before the general election in India. February 14, 2019, 4.19pm: Purported WhatsApp message from Republic TV managing director Arnab Goswami to Partho Dasgupta, ex-CEO of TV ratings agency BARC, says: “Sir 20 min ahead on the biggest terrorist attack of the year in Kashmir…. only only channel with a ground presence.” February 14, 2019, 5.43pm: Purported message from Goswami says: “This attack we have won like crazy.” February 23, 2019, 10.31pm: Purported message from Goswami to Dasgupta says: “On another note something big will happen.” February 23, 2019, 10.36pm: Purported query by Dasgupta: “Dawood?” February 23, 2019, 10.36pm: Purported reply from Goswami: “No sir Pakistan. Something major will be done this time.” February 23, 2019, 10.40pm: Purported message from Goswami to Dasgupta: “Bigger than a normal strike. And also on the same time something major on Kashmir. On Pakistan the government is confident of striking in a way that people will be elated. Exact words used.” February 26, 2019, 3.45am: Indian fighter aircraft cross the Line of Control and bomb a terror camp in Balakot. India says a large number of terrorists have been killed while Pakistan says only trees were damaged.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-408
17-01-2021||India||Covid vaccine Day 1: 43% missed||India launched its nationwide Covid-19 vaccination campaign on Saturday with the number of those vaccinated falling short of the day’s target by 43 per cent, which health officials and doctors attributed to opening-day delays, technology glitches and some vaccine hesitancy. More than 191,000 healthcare workers from government and private hospitals received the jabs at 3,352 vaccination sites across the country after Prime Minister Narendra Modi launched the campaign via a video address on Saturday morning. Medical experts expect the vaccination campaign to accelerate the population’s move towards herd immunity — a threshold at which so many people are protected either through vaccines or through natural infections that the epidemic vanishes. The campaign’s first round seeks to immunise around 10 million healthcare workers and 20 million frontline workers. It will be followed by a second round to immunise 270 million people, either aged above 50 or afflicted with chronic health disorders. Under guidelines issued by the Union health ministry, each site was to aim at vaccinating 100 people each day. The 191,181 beneficiaries reported by the ministry on Saturday evening made up about 57 per cent of the target of about 335,000. A health official said one of the “issues” that contributed to the shortfall was delays in uploading the list of beneficiaries on the digital platform deployed to manage the vaccination campaign at some sites. The official said no vaccination site had till 5pm reported any adverse effect that required hospitalisation. However, a PTI report at night said a nurse in Calcutta had been hospitalised after she fell unconscious following vaccination. The digital platform, which is also designed to record adverse effects following immunisation (AEFI), recorded 51 minor AEFIs and one serious AEFI in Delhi. The campaign is using two vaccines — the AstraZeneca-Oxford vaccine, produced in India by the Serum Institute of India and called Covishield, and the home-grown Covaxin from Bharat Biotech, granted accelerated approval by India’s drug regulatory authority. Both vaccines have been shown to be safe and capable of generating an immune response. But while Covishield has demonstrated its efficacy in trials in the UK and Brazil, Covaxin is yet to prove its efficacy through trials currently under way in 12 Indian cities. The health ministry said all states and Union Territories had received Covishield consignments while Covaxin had been sent to 11 states — Assam, Bihar, Delhi, Haryana, Karnataka, Maharashtra, Odisha, Rajasthan, Tamil Nadu, Telangana and Uttar Pradesh. Doctors in some government hospitals said some of their peers had declined the jabs saying they preferred Covishield and would accept Covaxin only after its efficacy had been proven. The Resident Doctors Association at the Ram Manohar Lohia Hospital in New Delhi issued an appeal to the hospital administration saying its members would prefer Covishield. The RML Hospital was one of six government hospitals in the capital that had received Covaxin vials. Seventy-five other hospitals in the city, including all the 42 private institutions, received Covishield. “Some of my colleagues on the list stayed away — at least today,” said a doctor at the All India Institute of Medical Sciences, New Delhi. “After that, other healthcare workers who were not on the original list for today were vaccinated.” This caused some delay. Although, 8,117 healthcare workers were to receive the vaccines in Delhi, the number vaccinated till 5pm was 4,319. Health officials and doctors expect the pace of vaccination to pick up in the coming days. “The initial hesitancy we saw today could wane in the coming days as more people get vaccinated,” the AIIMS doctor said. Sanjay Rai, a community medicine professor at AIIMS, said he believed Covaxin was the safest among the vaccines approved. “It has an inactivated (killed) virus, there is no issue about safety at all,” he said. Rai said as more people get vaccinated, India would move closer towards herd immunity, a threshold at which 60 to 70 per cent of people are protected either through natural infections or vaccines. Over 10 million people across India have already been infected and recovered from Covid-19, but earlier surveys of infection prevalence suggest that the actual number of infected people is many times higher. The Centre has ordered 11 million doses of Covishield and 5.5 million doses of Covaxin to start the campaign. India will require around 600 million doses to immunise the four priority groups identified for the campaign.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-408
17-01-2021||India||Arrested ex-chief of TV ratings agency in hospital||Former CEO of ratings agency Barc, Partho Dasgupta, arrested in connection with an alleged fake television ratings point (TRP) case, has been admitted to the ICU of the state-run JJ Hospital in central Mumbai, an official said on Saturday. The news of the hospitalisation came a day after WhatsApp messages purportedly exchanged between Dasgupta and Republic TV managing director Arnab Goswami started circulating on social media. Dasgupta, a diabetic, was rushed to the hospital from the Taloja Central Prison in Navi Mumbai after his blood sugar levels went up on Friday midnight. Dasgupta is on oxygen support, the official said. His daughter took to Twitter to allege that he was being tortured in prison, and appealed to Prime Minister Narendra Modi and others to “save his life”. On Saturday, Pratyusha Dasgupta, Dasgupta’s daughter, demanded that he be shifted to a reputable private hospital. She tweeted a message titled “A helpless daughter’s anguished appeal”, tagging Modi, Union home minister Amit Shah, the PMO as well as Maharashtra chief minister Uddhav Thackeray. Pratyusha said her mother received a call around 3am on Saturday informing that her father had been brought to the hospital in an unconscious state around 1pm on Friday. For 14 hours nobody from the family was informed because the authorities allegedly did not have their contact numbers, Pratyusha said. Dasgupta was arrested on December 24 last year. Mumbai police told the court that Republic TV’s Goswami had allegedly bribed Dasgupta “lakhs of rupees” to ramp up the channel’s viewership.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-408
17-01-2021||India||Dolphin, bird numbers go up at Chilika||The number of Irrawaddy dolphins, an endangered species inhabiting the Chilika lake in Odisha, has increased to 156 from 150 in 2019, according to a census report by the Chilika Development Authority. Chief executive of Chilika Development Authority, Sushant Nanda, said: “We have initiated many conservation measures for the protection and conservation of Irrawaddy dolphins. “We have taken steps for widening and deepening of the Magarmukha channel for free movement of dolphins from the outer channel to the main lake. During the survey conducted on Friday, we found the number of dolphins has increased because we have been able to provide them a conducive atmosphere.” “One significant population is now observed in the southern sector, by moving from other sectors. The dolphin population was 152 in 2013, 158 in 2014, 160 in 2015, 145 in 2016, 121in 2017, 155 in 2018, 150 in 2019 and 156 in 2020,” he added. Irrawaddy dolphins are protected under the Wildlife Protection Act, 1972, and listed under the Red List of Threatened Species of the IUCN (International Union for Conservation of Nature). The present distribution range of this species only found in Asia is from Chilika to Indonesia. Nanda said: “The movement of the rare species has been facilitated by clearing of gherries (obstructions created to catch fish using bamboo and nets) at places in the lake. The annual population estimation survey of Irrawaddy dolphins has been conducted by CDA since 2003. “This time, the annual survey was conducted using the ‘transact survey method’ followed worldwide for estimating the population of aquatic mammals.” Each survey team was equipped with binoculars, GPS, range finder and data recording sheets, etc. “One of the reasons for increase in the number of dolphins is the almost non-existent movement of boats in the lake because of the lockdown due to the coronavirus pandemic,” a source said. Officials said as the Chilika lake offers a good environment, the number of migratory birds has also increased this year. Nearly 12,42,000 individuals of 105 water bird species and 26,405 individuals of 76 wetland dependent species were counted in the entire lagoon on January 5. “The survey on Friday validated this data and a population of 1 million-plus birds is estimated. “This year, more birds have been found in the central and southern sectors of Chilika. Sudden increase in the population of diving ducks which prefer open water was noticed during the current season, particularly in the areas where prawn gherries (dykes) were removed, clearly indicating its beneficial impact for migratory birds,” Nanda said. The number of wanderers have also increased across the lake compared to the last census data. “Flamingo, Ferruginous Pochard and common Shelduck were encountered after a long gap,” Nanda said. Besides during the survey, the authorities have found five species of seagrasses — Holodule uninervis, Holodule pinifolia, Halophila ovalis, Halophila ovata and Halophila beccarii. With this finding, Chilika lake now has 22 per cent of India’s seagrass area.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-408
17-01-2021||India||Bihar’s first bird fest at Nagi-Nakti ||Bihar chief minister Nitish Kumar inaugurated ‘Kalrav’, the first ever bird festival of Bihar at Nagi-Nakti bird sanctuary in Jamui district, around 200km southeast from the state capital on Saturday. The pristine bird sanctuary is famous for 136 species of birds, and a sizeable population of rajhans or the bar-headed goose, which is a migratory bird. The number of this particular species touches 1,600 at times, which is around 3 per cent of its entire population in the world. “This is a very beautiful place with regard to the environment and a large number of birds reside at the sanctuary. Many migratory birds come here during winter. Several experts and ornithologists from different parts of the country are also visiting here to guide the people,” Nitish said after inaugurating the festival. Highlighting the need to protect the birds, the chief minister said that the objective of his visit to the sanctuary was to give a message to the people to do so for the coming generations. “Such bird festivals should be organised every year to inspire and encourage the people. Experts tell that many of the migratory birds fly 13 days to arrive at such sanctuaries during winter, and keep returning every year if they like the place,” Nitish added. Deputy chief minister-cum-environment minister Tarkishore Prasad, water resources minister Vijay Kumar Choudhary and several other leaders were also present with Nitish on the occasion. Bird ringing was also done on the occasion. It helps individual identification and tracking of their movements. Nagi-Nakti are twin dams separated by six kilometres, and spread across 1123 hectares surrounded by hills and forests. The Nagi dam is well known for the presence of ‘tor’ or freestanding rock outcrop, making it more beautiful. Such rock outcrops are rare in the eastern India, and is the only one in Bihar. “Bihar has several bird areas and is among the riches in the country when its comes to the number of bird species. This three-day bird festival is the first one in the state. It will keep revolving and will be organised in different bird areas every year,” environment and forest department principal secretary Dipak Kumar Singh told The Telegraph. Dipak said that tourist cottages, bird interpretation centre, and information about heritage sites in the area have also been made available for the visitors.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-408
17-01-2021||India||Naveen Patnaik talks to vaccine receivers||Chief minister Naveen Patnaik on Saturday talked to the beneficiaries who were administered the first dose of the corona vaccine. Among the beneficiaries were a health worker from Capital Hospital, Bhubaneswar, a female health worker of the District Head Quarter Hospital Sundergarh and a doctor of the City Hospital, Berhampur, and listened to their experience. In Bhubaneswar, a health worker was the first beneficiary followed immediately by the director of the Capital Hospital and doctors. Taking to the beneficiaries through video-conferencing Naveen said: “The long wait is over. We will not forget the sacrifice and services rendered by the healthcare workers in past 10 months during the pandemic.” Former director of the AIIMS (Bhubaneswar) Dr Ashok Kumar Mohapatra who took the dose said, “All should come forward and take the vaccine. There is nothing to fear.” Almost all the health workers, including the doctors, who took the first dose on Saturday said they were ninety nine per cent sure about the efficacy of the medicine. “But as the strains of the Covid are changing, we need to be careful and follow the Covid guidelines such as social distancing and wearing masks,” said a doctor.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-409
