18-01-2021||India||3,81,305 beneficiaries received Covid vaccine, 580 adverse events reported||A total of 3,81,305 beneficiaries have so far been vaccinated for Covid-19 and 580 adverse events following immunisation were reported in the country till now, the Union health ministry said on Monday. Addressing a press briefing, Manohar Agnani, Additional Secretary in the ministry of health, said 1,48,266 beneficiaries were vaccinated across 25 states and union territories till 5 pm on Monday. "A total of 3,81,305 beneficiaries have so far been vaccinated (till 5 pm on Monday) till today through 7,704 sessions, as per the provisional reports," the ministry said. Of the 1,48,266 beneficiaries who were administered the vaccine on Monday, 8,656 were from Bihar, 1,822 from Assam, 36,888 from Karnataka, 7,070 from Kerala, 6,665 from Madhya Pradesh, 7,628 from Tamil Nadu, 10,352 from Telangana, 11,588 from West Bengal and 3,111 were from Delhi. Agnani said a cumulative 580 adverse events following immunisation (AEFIs) and seven hospitalisations have so far been reported in the country since the nationwide Covid inoculation drive began on January 16. In Delhi, three hospitalisations were reported, out of which, two have been discharged, and one who fainted is under observation at Max Hospital, Patparganj. The reported case of AEFI in Uttarakhand is stable and under observation at All India Institute of Medical Sciences (AIIMS), Rishikesh. In Chhattisgarh, one person is under observation at the Government Medical College, Rajnandgaon. Of the two cases of AEFI in Karnataka, one is under observation at District Hospital, Chitradurga and the second person is under observation at General Hospital, Challakere, Chitradurga, Agnani said. "Of the two deaths reported, the death of the 52-year-old man from Moradabad, Uttar Pradesh (who was vaccinated on January 16 and died on evening of January 17) is not related to vaccination as per the post mortem report. The death was caused due to cardiopulmonary disease," he said. The second death was of a 43-year-old man, a resident of Bellary, Karnataka. He was vaccinated on January 16 and died on Monday. The cause of the death is anterior wall infarction with cardiopulmonary failure. The post mortem is scheduled on Monday at Vijayanagar Institute of Medical Sciences, Bellary, Karnataka, Agnani said. "No case of serious/severe AEFI attributable to vaccination till date," the additional secretary added. The health ministry has said each vaccination session will cater to a maximum of 100 beneficiaries per day and has advised states not to organise "unreasonable numbers of vaccination per site per day".||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-404
18-01-2021||India||Media trial hinders justice: HC on Sushant suicide coverage||The Bombay High Court on Monday asked media houses to exercise restraint when reporting on suicide cases, saying "media trial leads to interference and obstruction to administration of justice" and amounts to contempt of court. A bench of Chief Justice Dipankar Datta and Justice G S Kulkarni said the press must avoid discussions and debates relating to criminal investigations, and it should confine only to informative reportage that is in the public interest. The bench also held that prima facie some reportage by Republic TV and Times Now in the aftermath of the death of actor Sushant Singh Rajput were "contemptuous". The court said it had, however, decided against initiating any action against the two TV channels under the Contempt of Courts Act. The bench said media trials ran counter to the programme code framed under the Cable Television Networks (Regulation) Act. It also passed a slew of guidelines for the press to follow while reporting on sensitive cases. The HC said such reportage by any media organisation, that obstructs an ongoing investigation or administration of justice in a case will amount to contempt of court. "Media trial leads to interference and obstruction to administration of justice and violates programme code under the Cable TV Networks (Regulation) Act," it observed. "Any reportage has to be in accordance with the norms of journalistic standards and ethics, else media houses stand to face contempt action," it said. The directions are a part of the verdict pronounced by the bench on a bunch of public interest litigations (PIL) seeking that the press, particularly TV news channels, be restrained in their reportage on Rajput's death. The HC said it had tried in its verdict to answer questions on striking a balance among one's freedom of speech and expression, a fair investigation, one's right to a fair trial and to what extent, if at all, should the press and media reporting be regulated, if it interfered with or tended to obstruct the administration of justice. It also said until there came a mechanism to regulate the electronic media, TV channels should follow the Press Council of India's guidelines on reporting on suicides, and sensitive cases. "Media should observe restraint in discussions about an ongoing investigation so as not to prejudice the rights of the accused and witness," the high court said. "Publishing a confession alleged to have been made by an accused as if it is an admissible evidence without letting the public know about its inadmissibility should be avoided," it said. The HC said while reporting a suicide, "to suggest that the person was of weak character should be avoided". It also restrained media houses from reconstructing crime scenes, interviews with potential witnesses, and leaking sensitive and confidential information. "Investigative agencies are entitled to maintain secrecy about an ongoing investigation and they are under no obligation to divulge information," the high court said. The court also accepted the accusation made in the pleas that the Union Ministry of Information and Broadcasting had "abdicated statutory functions" pertaining to regulations related to reportage on Rajput's death. Rajput, 34, was found hanging at his home in Bandra area of Mumbai on June 14 last year. Following weeks of exhaustive arguments, the bench had on November 6 last year reserved its verdict on a bunch of PILs seeking that the press, particularly TV news channels, be restrained in their reportage on the death Rajput. The PILs, filed through senior counsel Aspi Chinoy, by activists, private citizens, and a group of retired police officers had also sought that TV news channels be stopped from conducting a media trial into the case. During the arguments, the Union government's counsel, Additional Solicitor General Anil Singh had said there already existed adequate statutory as well as self-regulatory mechanism for the media, including TV news channels, to follow while printing or broadcasting any news item. Private TV news channels that are party to the case had also argued that the self-regulatory mechanism was adequate and no new statutory mechanism or guidelines were required to control the media.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-404
18-01-2021||India|| FIR filed in UP against ‘Tandav’ director, Amazon content head||An FIR has been lodged here against the makers of web series 'Tandav' and Amazon's India head of original content for allegedly depicting Hindu gods in a manner hurtful to religious sentiments of the people. The FIR against Aparna Purohit, the head of Amazon's India head of original content, director of the series Ali Abbas, producer Himanshu Krishna Mehra, writer Gaurav Solanki, and an unknown person was lodged late on Sunday night by senior Sub Inspector Amar Nath Yadav at the Hazratganj Kotwali police station here. The film starring Saif Ali Khan, Dimple Kapadia, Sunil Grover, Tigmanshu Dhulia, Dino Morea, Kumud Mishra, Mohd Zeeshan Ayyub, Gauhar Khan and Kritika Kamra, premiered on the streaming platform on Friday. Taking to Twitter, BSP President Mayawati called for removing the objectionable content from the web series. Protests are being registered against some scenes hurting the religious and ethnic sentiments in the Tandav web series, in respect of which it would be appropriate to remove whatever is objectionable so that the atmosphere of peace, harmony and mutual brotherhood in the country is not spoiled anywhere, she said. According to the FIR, following public outrage expressed on social media platforms, the web series was viewed and it was found in the 17th minute of the first episode of the series that Hindu gods and goddesses have been allegedly presented in an "undignified manner' and shown using the language which is hurtful to religious sentiments. Dialogues in the web series can incite caste anger, the FIR stated. It also alleged that the person occupying the high post of Prime Minister of India has been portrayed in a very belittling manner besides there are scenes in which castes have been presented as low and high and women in an insulting manner. The FIR further alleged that intent of the web series is to incite religious sentiments of a particular community and create enmity among classes. This act of the producer-director has hurt and incited religious and caste sentiments of the people, the FIR added. The FIR has been lodged under sections 153 A (promoting enmity between different groups on grounds of religion, race, place of birth, residence, language), 295 (injuring or defiling place of worship with intent to insult the religion of any class), 505 (1) (B) (statements conducing to public mischief with intent to cause, or which is likely to cause, fear or alarm to the public, or to any section of the public whereby any person may be induced to commit an offence against the State or against the public tranquillity) and 469 (forgery for purpose of harming reputation) along with sections of the IT Act. Taking cognizance of complaints that Hindu gods and goddesses have been ridiculed in the web series, the Ministry of Information and Broadcasting had on Sunday sought an explanation from the streaming platform Amazon Prime Video on the issue, sources had said. The development came after BJP MP Manoj Kotak on Sunday said he has written to Information and Broadcasting Minister Prakash Javadekar seeking a ban on Amazon Prime Video's series 'Tandav' for ridiculing Hindu deities. "The ministry has taken cognizance of the matter (complaints) and asked Amazon Prime Video to explain," a source in the ministry had said. Kotak, the MP from Mumbai North-East, said different organisations and individuals have complained that Hindu gods and goddesses have been ridiculed in the 'Tandav' web series. Maharashtra BJP MLA Ram Kadam on Monday urged people to boycott new web series "Tandav" for allegedly mocking Hindu deities. In a tweet, Kadam said, It's been close to 24 hrs and still no apology from Amazon. "Seems like they are proud of or don't regret their demeaning act of mocking or targeting our Hindu Gods." I urge all Hindus to boycott Amazon's products, be it their shopping site or content platform, he said. When contacted about the complaints, Amazon Prime Video PR had said the platform "won't be responding" on the matter. The government recently brought OTT platforms such as Netflix, Amazon Prime Video and Disney+ Hotstar, besides other online news and current affairs content, under the ambit of the Ministry of Information and Broadcasting, giving it powers to regulate policies and rules for the digital space.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-404
18-01-2021||India||All efforts being made to extradite the extradition process of Vijay Mallya, Centre tells SC ||The Centre on Monday told the Supreme Court that it is taking all efforts to extradite fugitive businessman Vijay Mallya, accused in bank loan default case of over Rs 9,000 crore involving his defunct Kingfisher Airlines from United Kingdom, but the process is being delayed to some legal issues involved in the matter. A bench of Justices U U Lalit and Ashok Bhushan posted the matter for further hearing on March 15, after Solicitor General Tushar Mehta sought some time to file report on the status of extradition of Mallya. At the outset, Mehta shared a letter of the Ministry of External Affairs' official Devesh Uttam written to him on the status of extradition of Mallya from the United Kingdom. The solicitor general stated that Ministry of External Affairs (MEA) has raised the issue of extradition with the UK government and the Centre is taking all serious efforts to extradite Mallya. He said that government is trying its best but the status remains the same and from the political executive level to administrative level the matter is being looked into repeatedly. The bench took the letter on record. Mallya, an accused in bank loan default case of over Rs 9,000 crore involving his defunct Kingfisher Airlines, is in the UK since March 2016. He is on bail on an extradition warrant executed three years ago by Scotland Yard on April 18, 2017. The letter submitted by the law officer stated that, the Ministry of External Affairs has been informed by the UK government that there is a further legal issue that needs resolving before Mallya can be extradited. It said, Under United Kingdom law, extradition cannot take place until it is resolved. As it is judicial in nature, the issue is confidential and you will understand that Her Majesty's government cannot provide any more details. We also cannot estimate how long this issue will take to resolve. Her Majesty's government fully understands the importance of this case to the government of India. I can reassure that Her Majesty's government is seeking to deal with the issue as quickly as possible. The letter further stated, The government of India has been making consistent efforts for early extradition of Vijay Mallya. In November 2020, Foreign secretary Harshvardhan Shringla raised this issue with Priti Patel, UK Home Secretary who informed that UK's legal complexities were preventing the quick extradition of Vijay Mallya. It further said, In December 2020, the external affairs minister Dr. S Jaishankar raised the issue with the UK foreign secretary Dominic Raab and most recently in January 2021, the Home Secretary of India raised it with the UK Permanent Under Secretary of Home. UK's response remains the same. On November 2, last year, the top court had asked the Centre to file status report in six weeks on the confidential legal proceedings pending in the UK on extradition of Mallya to India. The Centre had on October 5 told the apex court that Mallya cannot be extradited to India until a separate secret legal process in the UK, which is judicial and confidential in nature is resolved . The top court had also refused to accept the plea of advocate E C Agarwala, appearing for Mallya in the apex court, seeking discharge from the case. The Centre had in October, last year said it is not aware of the secret on-going proceedings against Mallya in the UK as the government of India is not party to the process. On August 31, last year the top court had directed Mallya to appear before it on October 5, 2020, while dismissing his plea seeking review of the 2017 verdict which held him guilty of contempt for transferring USD 40 million to his children in violations of court orders. When the top court had asked Mehta about the time-frame for conclusion of proceeding pending in the UK, he had said they have no information about it from the London High Commission. The Ministry of Home Affairs, in its affidavit filed earlier in the contempt case in which Mallya has been held guilty, said that the pending legal issue in the UK is outside and apart from the extradition process and is confidential and cannot be disclosed . The top court had in October, 2020 asked Mallya's lawyer to apprise the apex court by November 2, last year what kind of "secret" proceedings are going on to extradite him. The Centre had given details of the extradition proceedings against Mallya starting from February 9, 2017 till dismissal of his appeal against extradition in UK on May 14, last year and said that the fugitive businessman has thus exhausted all avenues of appeal in the United Kingdom. The Centre had said that following the refusal of leave to appeal, Mallya's surrender to India should, in principle, have been completed within 28 days but the UK home office intimated that there is a further legal issue which needs to be resolved before Vijay Mallya's extradition may take place.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-404
18-01-2021||India||Farmers remind govt about constitutional rights ahead of tractor rally||Protesting union leaders on Monday said that farmers have a constitutional right to take out their tractor rally peacefully and asserted that thousands of people will participate in the proposed event on January 26. The Supreme Court said on Monday that the Delhi Police is the first authority to decide the entry of protesting farmers into the national capital. Bhartiya Kisan Union (Lakhowal) Punjab general secretary Paramjit Singh said that farmers are not going to hold their rally on Rajpath and in other high-security areas, adding that they would only take out it on the Outer Ring Road in Delhi and that there will be no disruption in the official Republic Day parade. "We are stuck at the Delhi borders. We have not decided to sit at these borders ourselves, we have been stopped from entering Delhi. We will take out the rally peacefully without disrupting any law and order. We will exercise our constitutional right and we will definitely enter Delhi," Singh told PTI. Another farmer leader Lakhbir Singh, who is vice president (Punjab) of All India Kisan Sabha, said that farmers will return to protest sites after taking out the tractor rally on the Outer Ring Road on January 26. "We will not go to any place where there might be a government gathering, and all our tractors will have a national flag and the flags of our farmer unions," Lakhbir said. Asked about their stand in case the Delhi Police does not give them permission for the tractor parade, BKU (Ekta Ugrahan) president Joginder Singh Ugrahan said that farmers have constitutional rights to hold the tractor rally peacefully. "If the Delhi Police has some issues over law and order on Republic Day, they can sit with Sankyukt Kisan Morcha and tell about alternatives routes for the tractor rally. Thereafter, our farmers' committee will decide the same. But, it is very clear that their tractor rally will be taken out in the national capital on January 26," Ugrahan told PTI. Thousands of farmers, mostly from Punjab and Haryana, have been camping at several Delhi borders since November 28, demanding a repeal of farm laws and legal guarantee on minimum support price for their crops. While hearing a petition, the Supreme Court told the Centre that the proposed tractor rally by farmers on the Republic Day on January 26 is a matter of "law and order" and Delhi Police is the first authority to decide who should be allowed to enter the national capital. A bench headed by Chief Justice S A Bobde, while hearing the Centre's application seeking an injunction against the proposed tractor or trolley march or any other kind of protest which seeks to disrupt the gathering and celebrations of the Republic Day, said that police has all the authority to deal with the matter. The tenth round of talks between the government and the protesting farmer unions is scheduled on January 19. On the same day, the Supreme Court-appointed committee to resolve the impasse will hold its first meeting. The previous nine rounds of formal talks between the Centre and 41 farmer unions have failed to yield any concrete results to end the long-running protest at Delhi's borders as the latter have stuck to their main demand of a complete repeal of the three acts. The Supreme Court had on January 11 stayed the implementation of the three laws till further orders and appointed a four-member panel to resolve the impasse. Bhartiya Kisan Union president Bhupinder Singh Mann, however, recused himself from the committee last week.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-404
18-01-2021||India||Tractor rally on January 26 a matter of law and order, rules SC||The Supreme Court Monday told the Centre that the proposed tractor rally by farmers on the Republic Day on January 26 is a matter of law and order and Delhi Police is the first authority to decide who should be allowed to enter the national capital. A bench headed by Chief Justice S A Bobde, while hearing the Centre's application seeking an injunction against the proposed tractor or trolley march or any other kind of protest which seeks to disrupt the gathering and celebrations of the Republic Day, said that police has all the authority to deal with the matter. "Does the Supreme Court will say as to what are the powers of police and how they will exercise them? We are not going to tell you what to do," said the bench, also comprising Justices L N Rao and Vineet Saran. The apex court told Attorney General K K Venugopal that it will take up the matter for further hearing on January 20. The question of entering into Delhi is a law and order matter and will be determined by the police, the bench said, adding, Mr Attorney General, we are adjourning the matter and you have all the authority to deal with this matter. The Centre, in an application filed through Delhi Police, has said that any proposed march or protest which seeks to disrupt and disturb the Republic Day celebrations will cause an embarrassment to the nation. The top court had on January 12 agreed to hear the application.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-404
18-01-2021||India||India logs 13,788 fresh Covid cases, 145 fatalities in a day||The daily coronavirus infections fell below 14,000 for the second time this month taking India's Covid-19 caseload to 1,05,71,773, while 145 new fatalities were recorded, the lowest in around eight months, according to the Union Health Ministry data updated on Monday. A total of 13,788 infections have been reported in a day. The country's death toll increased to 1,52,419 with 145 daily new fatalities, the data updated at 8 am showed. The recoveries have crossed 1.02 crore. The daily Covid-19 infections were 12,548 on January 12. The number of people who have recuperated from the disease surged to 1,02,11,342 pushing the national COVID-19 recovery rate of 96.59 per cent, while the COVID-19 case fatality rate stands at 1.44 per cent. The COVID-19 active caseload remained below 3 lakh. There are 2,08,012 active cases of coronavirus infections in the country which comprises 1.97 per cent of the total caseload, the data stated. India's COVID-19 tally had crossed the 20-lakh mark on August 7, 30 lakh on August 23, 40 lakh on September 5 and 50 lakh on September 16.It went past 60 lakh on September 28, 70 lakh on October 11, crossed 80 lakh on October 29, 90 lakh on November 20 and surpassed the one-crore mark on December 19. According to the ICMR, 18,70,93,036 samples have been tested up to January 17 with 5,48,168 samples being tested on Sunday. The 145 new fatalities include 50 from Maharashtra, 21 from Kerala, 12 from West Bengal and 8 from Delhi. A total of 152419 deaths have been reported so far in the country including 50,438 from Maharashtra followed by 12,264 from Tamil Nadu, 12,166 from Karnataka, 10,746 from Delhi, 10,053 from West Bengal, 8,576 from Uttar Pradesh, 7,140 from Andhra Pradesh and 5,504 from Punjab. The health ministry stressed that more than 70 per cent of the deaths occurred due to comorbidities. "Our figures are being reconciled with the Indian Council of Medical Research," the ministry said on its website, adding that state-wise distribution of figures is subject to further verification and reconciliation.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-405
18-01-2021||India||Ranchi records almost 70 per cent of the total fresh Covid cases in Jharkhand||While at least 15 of 24 districts did not report fresh cases of Covid-19 infection on Sunday, Ranchi accounted for almost 70 per cent of the less than 100 people who were found infected on the day, figures compiled by the state health department revealed. As many as 60 of the 87 people found infected by the deadly virus on the day were residents of Ranchi, while a dozen of them were from East Singhbhum, a bulletin released by the National Health Mission (NHM) stated. The figures highlight that over 72 per cent of total Covid cases in the state were reported in Ranchi and East Singhbhum. At least 111 Covid patients also recovered from the infection on Sunday, bringing the number of active cases in the state down at 1225, NHM stated in its bulletin. As per the bulletin, 98.06 per cent of the 1,17,686 people infected by the virus so far in Jharkhand have recovered. Jharkhand administered Covishield vaccine shots to around 3200 beneficiaries on Saturday – Day 1 of what has been touted as the world's largest vaccination programme. However, no vaccine shots were administered in the state on Sunday. NHM officials said that the vaccine would be administered to beneficiaries in Jharkhand four days a week – Monday, Tuesday, Wednesday and Friday. The government on Sunday tested swab samples of 10,390 people and less than 1 per cent of them were found infected. Jharkhand has so far collected swab samples of 50.54 lakh people and tested 50.46 lakh of them. The intensity of Covid testing in Jharkhand, however, has reduced lately. Barring Ranchi and East Singhbhum, all the remaining 22 districts either reported a single-digit-spike in cases on Sunday or did not report fresh cases. Bokaro reported five cases against six recoveries, while Hazaribag reported two cases and the same number of recoveries. As per government data, the growth rate of the viral infection in Jharkhand was 0.09 per cent against the national average of 0.12 per cent. At the current pace, it would take more than 785 days for the cases to double in Jharkhand. The doubling rate in India was 558.82 days, the NHM stated in its bulletin. No Covid casualties occurred in Jharkhand on Sunday, keeping the toll at 1050. The Covid mortality rate in the state was 0.89 per cent against the national average of 1.40 per cent.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-405
18-01-2021||India||Cloud cover forces Delhi's minimum temperature to rise ||Delhi's minimum temperature rose to 9 degrees Celsius, two notches more than normal, on Monday due to party cloudy weather and prevailing easterly winds, the India Meteorological Department (IMD) said. The maximum temperature is likely to settle around 17 degrees Celsius. On Sunday, the minimum and maximum temperatures stood at 5.7 degrees Celsius and 15.3 degrees Celsius, respectively, resulting in cold day conditions. A cold day is when the minimum temperature is less than 10 degrees Celsius and the maximum is at least 4.5 degrees Celsius below normal. An IMD official said easterly winds are blowing in Delhi which are not as cold as northwesterly coming in from the snow-clad western Himalayas. Also, a light cloud cover trapped some of the outgoing infrared radiation. Hence, the minimum temperature has increased slightly, he said. The city's air quality index was 380 at 9 am. The 24-hour average AQI was 347 on Sunday. It was 407 on Saturday, 460 on Friday, 429 on Thursday, and 354 on Wednesday. An AQI between zero and 50 is considered good, 51 and 100 satisfactory, 101 and 200 moderate, 201 and 300 poor, 301 and 400 very poor, and 401 and 500 severe. Delhi's overall air quality index (AQI) remained in the severe category for three days on the trot till Saturday.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-405
18-01-2021||India||Pakistan prompts Republic TV to end a 48-hour silence on boss||Pakistan has prompted Arnab Goswami’s Republic TV to end a 48-hour silence on its boss but the nation still wants to know who “NM” and “AS” are. Goswami’s Republic News Network issued a statement on Sunday night after Pakistan sought to milk a controversy, citing chats attributed to him to say that the BJP government stages “false flag” operations, “stokes hyper-nationalism”, claims to launch so-called “surgical strike” and deviously manipulates national sentiment in its bid to win elections. The purported chats quote Goswami as saying “this attack we have won like crazy”, presumably referring to his channel’s coverage and ratings, less than three hours into the Pulwama massacre in which 40 CRPF jawans died. The chats attributed to Goswami also say three days before the Balakot air strikes that the government would respond in such a way that “people will be elated”. Goswami had not responded to questions from Indian news media on the authenticity of the chats that became public on Friday and the identity of “NM” and “AS” — two abbreviations that figure in the messages about getting things done. On Sunday night, Republic Media Network confined itself to lecturing Pakistan and the Congress party in India. “Goswami exposed every sinister design, and evil intention of the Government of Pakistan and the ISI,” it said. “As the days pass, we will expose this conspiracy…,” the 267-word statement added.  It urged the Congress to stop working in tandem with the Pakistan government, consciously or unconsciously, to spread lies against India’s interests. But not a word on the leaked chats or “NM” or “AS”.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-405
18-01-2021||India||Farmers protest: 'Kisan parade' on Republic Day despite NIA tactics to cut support||The protesting farmers on Sunday confirmed they would conduct a “kisan parade” in Delhi on Republic Day and invoked Mahatma Gandhi’s principle of peaceful protest, upset but outwardly unfazed by the government’s use of the National Investigation Agency to cut off support for them. The Samyukta Kisan Morcha condemned the “repression” by the government, which has got the NIA to file cases against those supporting the farmers by providing buses, organising langars or paying compensation to the kin of the dead. Darshan Pal of the Krantikari Kisan Union, a constituent of the SKM, said the farmer unions would challenge the NIA action in court. “This is harassment,” said Shiv Kumar Sharma “Kakkaji” of the Madhya Pradesh-based Rashtriya Kisan Mazdoor Mahasangh. The farmers are particularly upset that the NIA action is continuing despite the union leaders having raised the subject at their last meeting with the government on Friday. “Agriculture minister Narendra Singh Tomar had said he would look into it, but still the harassment continues,” Pal said. Ranjit Singh Raju of the Grameen Kisan Mazdoor Samiti, Ganganagar, said that instead of harassing people in general, the government should arrest anyone with Khalistani links. Some of the union leaders think the government is using the NIA for a fishing expedition. They maintain that the banned separatist group Sikhs for Justice (SFJ), which has offered to pay $250,000 to anyone who hoists the Khalistani flag at India Gate, is an Indian deep-state asset. Amid the farmers’ complaint about the mainstream media painting them in a poor light, CNNNews18 — a Reliance-controlled media house — has withdrawn a news report that named Canadian talk show host Joginder Bassi as a foreign funder of the farmers’ protest with Khalistani links. The channel had claimed the story was based on an “intelligence report”. While the Punjabi diaspora in Canada had a hearty laugh, it became an embarrassment for the government after photographs emerged of Bassi –said to be a strong voice against Khalistan — with Prime Minister Narendra Modi. Another photograph has surfaced showing Modi with Punjabi actor Deep Sidhu, a supporter of the farmers’ agitation. Sidhu was an aide to actor-turned-BJP parliamentarian Sunny Deol during the last Lok Sabha elections, but Deol distanced himself from Sidhu after he backed the agitation. Sidhu has received NIA summons in a case against the SFJ. Kakkaji likened the “repression” to what the British had done during the freedom struggle. “In this entire movement, Gandhi is our guiding light. The British would carry out repression and lathi-charges and send people to jail but Gandhiji would still talk to them and hold no grudge. We too are dealing with this repression and accepting the suffering,” he said. “It’s our tapasya and sadhna (penance and prayer). We are on the path of Gandhism. They should evaluate what path they are on. We have said over and over again that ‘Hamla chahe jaisa bhi ho, haath hamara nahi uthega (However the attack comes, we shall not raise our hand)’. The people of India will give them a reply.” While the SKM has repeatedly asserted that the kisan parade would not disrupt the main Republic Day parade, farmer union leaders said the matter bore repetition keeping in mind the canards being spread by the government’s supporters. The kisan parade will be carried out along Delhi’s Outer Ring Road, and only the national flag and the flags of the various farmer unions will be used. Yogendra Yadav of the Jai Kisan Andolan said the farmers’ ability to carry out such a large movement peacefully was their most powerful weapon. “No political party will be allowed to use its flag in the parade, and there will be no provocative sloganeering,” he said. “We have no plans to lay siege to any national monument or building. We hope that Delhi and Haryana police would not create hurdles on our way.” Asked what they might do if the Supreme Court accepted the Delhi police plea not to permit the parade, the farmer leaders said they would wait for the verdict before commenting. But they maintained their parade was on course. “Why would the Supreme Court stop a parade of farmers under the national flag? Republic Day belongs to the people, and we are joining in that celebration,” Yadav said. Yudhvir Singh of the Bharatiya Kisan Union said: “Our parade is not a protest but a celebration.” With some farmers refitting their tractors to make them more powerful, union leaders have urged the protesters not to try and turn their tractors into tanks. “We are asking all the farmers to use their usual tractors, besides having tableaux from every state highlighting not just the farm laws and farming issues but also issues like brotherhood and national integration,” a union leader said. A Niti Aayog reply to an RTI plea has raised questions whether junior food and public distribution minister Raosaheb Danve Ministry had misled the Lok Sabha during the debate on the farm laws. Danve had said the high-powered committee of chief ministers set up by the Prime Minister had approved the amendments to the Essential Commodities Act in keeping with a decision by the Niti Aayog’s governing council. The Niti Aayog told transparency advocate Anjali Bhardwaj in response to an RTI request for access to the report of the committee that it had to be first placed before the governing council. This, she said, indicates “that the farm ordinances were promulgated and introduced in Parliament without the report of the high-powered committee of chief ministers being appraised by the governing council”.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-405
18-01-2021||India||Part of Partho-Arnab WhatsApp chats deal with economy||Arvind Subramanian did flag grave concerns on the economy. So did Kaushik Basu and several others. The dire remarks fell on deaf ears in the Narendra Modi government. Understandably, because Subramanian, Basu and the others are economists — a source of mistrust for a regime sceptical of domain expertise. Now, possible evidence has emerged that a non-economist whose credentials and intentions the Modi government trusts was privy to a blunt insight, shorn of tiresome jargon, on the economy as far back as April 2019. The purported WhatsApp chats — attached to a supplementary chargesheet filed by Mumbai police — between Republic TV managing director Arnab Goswami and Partho Dasgupta, the then CEO of rating agency BARC, have a segment that deals with the economy, so to speak. On April 10, 2019, at 12.07pm, a message attributed to Dasgupta and sent to Goswami said: “NM/AS should first rejig finance ministry in the second term — the economy is screwed — no matter what we tell outside.” The message does not expand “NM” and “AS” but there aren’t too many duopolies with the telling abbreviations in the country that can “rejig” the finance ministry at the drop of a hat.
The concluding part of the purported message from Dasgupta — “no matter what we tell outside” — is certain to ring a bell among several corporate chieftains and industrialists, post-demonetisation. Although the economy has been in the doldrums since then, almost every industrialist, barring a handful, has sung hosannas to the Modi government in public while some criticised it in private. The message credited to Dasgupta also confirms another point: after the Pulwama terror attack and the Balakot strike, there was little doubt that Modi was on the verge of a second term.
On that summer day two years ago and a day before the first day of polling in the general election of 2019, there was no reply from Goswami over WhatsApp to Dasgupta for over half an hour. In spite of the lack of response, another message attributed to Dasgupta added: “Jaitley is their biggest failure.” This time, a purported reply from Goswami arrived fast. At 12.45pm itself, the reply said: “That I agree totally.” Many would consider it an unfair assessment as it was well-known that Arun Jaitley, the then finance minister, had not been given a free hand on the economy. It’s not clear whether the purported agreement on the part of Goswami was confined to the sweeping judgement on Jaitley or whether it covered the preceding message on the sorry state of the economy, too. Traditional wisdom (silence is concurrence) suggests that there was consensus on both counts. If Goswami had a different perception about the economy — and no evidence is needed on his skills to get across his views — he could be counted on to challenge the purported opinion of Dasgupta, rectify the crude categorisation of the economy and restore the reputation of the Modi regime. Especially since the Modi government is not known for taking kindly to uncharitable descriptions of the economy on its watch. If Goswami had the kind of access he boasts, and given his well-cultivated image as a fearless and ruthless inquisitor in selfless service of the nation, he could be expected to have done the right thing after not disagreeing with Dasgupta’s assessment of the economy. Which is to convey to Modi how bad the economic situation was in the last leg of his first term as Prime Minister. It is not known whether Goswami briefed “NM” or “AS” on the dire economic straits. A new finance minister was indeed found in the second term but that was because an ailing Jaitley had by then sought retirement from public office. If Goswami did warn the government, it did not appear to have had the desired result. In the financial year that followed (2019-20), economic growth in India plunged to an 11-year low at 4.2 per cent. And Covid cannot be blamed entirely because the lockdown kicked in only in the last week of the financial year. Some of the messages attributed to Goswami do stand out for their insensitivity, especially on Jaitley and just five days before the former finance minister breathed his last.
A message from this newspaper to Goswami seeking his comment on the purported messages did not elicit any response till the time of going to press.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-405
18-01-2021||India||Adverse events following immunisation count ‘comforting’||India has recorded 447 cases of adverse events following immunisation (AEFIs) among over 224,300 healthcare workers who received Covid-19 vaccines over the weekend, the vast majority of them minor or mild, the Union health ministry said on Sunday. The ministry also said that three people who had developed AEFIs had been hospitalised. Two have already been discharged from two hospitals in Delhi and one vaccine recipient is under observation at a hospital in Rishikesh, a health official said, without revealing the conditions that required hospitalisation. In Bengal, two recipients have been hospitalised. Medical experts said typical AEFIs include pain and mild swelling at the injection site, mild fever, body ache, nausea or giddiness and mild allergic reactions such as rashes. The rate of AEFIs observed in India so far – 447 among 224,301 vaccinated, or 1.9 per 1,000 – is not unusual. “The numbers we’re seeing are comforting,” Narendra Arora, the chair of India’s AEFI communications panel, told The Telegraph. “We believe the two vaccines we’re using are safe and much less reactogenic (capable of triggering adverse reactions) than other Covid-19 vaccines.” In contrast, a report prepared by a medical expert in the US on December 19, tracking AEFIs over five days of vaccinations, had documented 3,150 “health impact events” among 272,001 people (11.6 per 1,000) administered doses of a vaccine based on mRNA technology. Health researchers, however, say that while both vaccines used in the Indian campaign -– AstraZeneca-Oxford’s Covishield and the home-grown Bharat Biotech vaccine Covaxin -– have proved safe in clinical trials, it is critical to continue monitoring the AEFIs. “Both vaccines are expected to be safe. That is why they were approved for restricted emergency use. But the history of vaccines shows that sometimes very rare adverse effects show up after hundreds of thousands of doses have been administered,” said a senior scientist. The Union health ministry has deployed a digital platform called Co-Win that is being used to manage the vaccination campaign and to track in real-time the AEFIs reported by those receiving the vaccines. “Protocols are in place for reporting, for immediate case management at the vaccination sites, and for transport and hospitalisation” and further care of AEFIs that require hospitalisation, a senior health official said on Sunday. Arora said Co-Win had enabled AEFI monitoring in real time for the first time in the country. “We’re now counting AEFIs every day. With the childhood vaccines, AEFI surveillance was passive: we used to wait for the parents to report them. And not everyone did.” The nationwide Covid-19 vaccination campaign is expected to be punctuated by breaks, with most states proposing to vaccinate four days a week and only one state – Andhra Pradesh – planning six days of immunisation a week. Only six states – Andhra Pradesh, Arunachal Pradesh, Karnataka, Kerala, Manipur and Tamil Nadu – conducted the vaccination sessions on Sunday, adding around 17,000 beneficiaries to the around 207,000 vaccinated nationwide on Saturday. Assam, Bihar, Bengal, Chhattisgarh, Delhi, Kerala, Madhya Pradesh, Maharashtra, Punjab, Rajasthan, Tamil Nadu and Telangana are among the states that propose to vaccinate four days a week. Uttar Pradesh, Himachal Pradesh and Goa will vaccinate two days a week. A health ministry official said the states had been advised to plan the campaigns to “minimise disruption” to routine healthcare services. The official said the number of days chosen by the states would likely be determined by the resources available and the number of beneficiaries to be vaccinated during this first round of the campaign. The first round seeks to immunise around 10 million healthcare workers and 20 million frontline public workers. The second round would cover an estimated 270 million people from two priority groups – those aged above 50 and those below 50 but with chronic health disorders.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-405
18-01-2021||India||Congress seeks vaccine free for poor||The Congress on Sunday asked Prime Minister Narendra Modi whether the country’s citizens, particularly the poor, would receive the Covid-19 vaccine free and wondered why pharmaceutical companies were being allowed to profiteer in a time of distress. Party communications chief Randeep Surjewala was referring to reports that the Pune-based Serum Institute of India, which is manufacturing AstraZeneca’s Covishield in the country, would sell each dose of the two-dose vaccine in the market at Rs 1,000. “Serum Institute’s CEO Adar Poonawalla has said they will sell Covishield for Rs 1,000 per dose in the open market. They are selling the same to the government for Rs 200 per dose. Why has the Prime Minister allowed the company to create business opportunity in this crisis?” he asked. “Why can’t the government buy from the company and make it available to those who want to buy at Rs 200 per dose?” Surjewala went on to do the maths. “Of Rs 1,000, let us deduct Rs 200, which is the actual price. Which means Rs 800 extra per dose. If 100 crore people buy two doses of the vaccine in the open market, that means a profit of Rs 1.6 lakh crore. Has the government examined this aspect?” he said. “We want vaccines for all and free of cost, at least for the vulnerable sections of society. While 28 per cent of the population are in the BPL (below poverty line category), 81.35 crore people are eligible for subsidised rations under the Food Security Act. It would be very difficult for these people to buy vaccines for the entire family.” Surjewala asked whether the Covid vaccines had been put on the National List of Essential Medicines and whether the price of Rs 1,000 per dose had been approved by the National Pharmaceutical Pricing Authority. The NPPA can set price caps on medicines on the essential list. “Why is the Modi government not demanding transparency from companies on the cost of production, licensing and the profit margin?” Surjewala said. He also questioned the price of Rs 200 the government was paying for each dose of Covishield. “AstraZeneca has committed to supplying the vaccine ‘at no profit’. According to Belgium minister Eva De Bleeker, the cost of (one dose of the) AstraZeneca vaccine for them is 1.78 euros ($2.18), that is, Rs 158. Why should our government pay Rs 200?” he said. “Also, Covaxin, manufactured by Bharat Biotech, is being supplied at Rs 295 per dose to the government. Covaxin has been developed by Bharat Biotech in partnership with the Indian Council of Medical Research. Why is it charging more?” He underlined that Covaxin had been approved for use without efficacy data. “Why should the government pay Rs 95 more to Bharat Biotech for a vaccine that has been developed with the expertise of ICMR (and) whose trials are not completed? Should the price of such a vaccine not be cheaper than (that of) the AstraZeneca (vaccine) which has completed due process?” he said. Surjewala appeared to chastise BJP leaders for attributing the development of the vaccines to Modi, whom one former minister has described as a “devdoot” or angel. “Vaccine development and mass immunisation have never been political events or publicity stunts. This is not an occasion to refurbish the image of a leader,” he said. “This (mass immunisation) is the duty of the government of the day.” Surjewala said that past Congress governments had carried out “mass vaccination to demolish widespread superstition and fight diseases like tuberculosis, smallpox, polio, leprosy, measles, tetanus, diphtheria, whooping cough, cholera, meningitis and encephalitis”.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-405
18-01-2021||India||Congress queries Balakot strike ‘leak’||Senior Congress leaders on Sunday expressed concern about the implications for national security following the leak of purported WhatsApp messages that suggest Republic TV managing director Arnab Goswami may have known about the February 2019 Balakot air strikes in advance. While one Congress minister used the word “treason” to describe the alleged leak of military secrets,sources said the central leadership had taken the matter “very seriously” and would articulate its position soon. Former home minister P. Chidambaram tweeted: “Did a journalist (and his friend) know about the retaliatory strike on Balakot camp three days before the actual strike? If yes, what is the guarantee that their ‘source’ did not share the information with others as well, including spies or informers working for Pakistan? How did a ‘For Your Eyes Only’ decision find its way to the government-supporting journalist?” Former information and broadcasting minister Manish Tewari tweeted: “Was national security milked for electoral purposes? Needs a JPC (joint parliamentary committee) investigation.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-405
18-01-2021||India||Ready to protest till 2024: Bharatiya Kisan Union leader||Bharatiya Kisan Union (BKU) leader Rakesh Tikait on Sunday said farmers are prepared to protest against the Centre’s new farm laws “till May 2024” if necessary. The next general election is due in April-May 2024. “This is an ideological revolution of farmers started from Delhi and will not fail. Farmers from villages do not want us come back until the three farm bills are taken back,” Tikait told a news conference in Nagpur. Tens of thousands of farmers have been on dharna at Delhi’s borders since November-end to demand the repeal of the three laws and a legally guaranteed minimum support price. Farmer leaders are mobilising support for the protest from across the country. “The government is adamant on its stance of not withdrawing the bills and this agitation will continue for long,” he added. Asked how long farmers will protest, Tikait said: “We are prepared to sit in protest till May 2024...our demand is that the three laws be taken back and the government provide a legal guarantee on the MSP.” The farmers believe the three laws will serve large corporates and will reduce them to labourers in their own land. The Supreme Court last Tuesday stayed the implementation of the three new farm laws till further orders and decided to set up a four-member committee to resolve the impasse over them between the Centre and farmers’ unions protesting at Delhi borders. Dismissing allegations that “rich farmers” were fuelling the protest, Tikait said people from villages and various outfits have joined the protest. He welcomed the Supreme Court’s decision on staying the implementation of the farm laws, but said the committee formed by the apex court has members who “supported” the farm bills. 
“We do not want to go before the committee formed by the court. The government has also said that the government and farmers will find solution on this issue,” he said. Tikait also said the Opposition parties in the country were weak and that is why farmers had to start this agitation against the Centre’s new laws. On National Investigation Agency’s (NIA) notices to some people supporting the farmers’ protest, he said Indians also had to face retribution during the freedom struggle. “Those who want to be part of the agitation must be ready for court cases, imprisonment and sealing of property.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-405
18-01-2021||India||Science scores low in education policy||Scientist Bikash Sinha analyses the New Education Policy in this dialogue with the author, a professor of human science. Q: How do you see the New Education Policy? Sinha: The new policy articulated by the Kasturirangan Committee has emerged after 34 long years. It has been a subject of considerable introspection and consultation across the country and it asserts that education for every Indian child should be his or her birthright. The most important element of the new policy is the flexibility granted in the choice of subjects. Why can’t a student belonging to the science stream take up music or philosophy or a student of literature take up mathematics? This flexibility will give the students a more holistic education and prepare them to tackle eventualities in later life. My experience tells me that a really good scientist could also be excellent in language and the humanities. Let us take a few examples. Robert Oppenheimer was well conversant with the Gita and the Upanishads; Satish Dhawan was a serious and dedicated student of literature; Raja Ramanna was not only a great pianist but also well versed in Shakespeare; Homi Bhabha was an expert on the opera as well as a great admirer of Subbulakshmi. He was also an accomplished painter. I feel, therefore, that (knowledge of) history is a must. That is, there is a history to all disciplines, which we have to master in order to create a history of our own. Q: You are one of our renowned disseminators of scientific knowledge. How has science been treated in the New Education Policy? Sinha: Science, as expected, has a rather insignificant priority in the new policy. This, to say the least, is extremely unfortunate and harmful. In fact, science is the foundation of tomorrow’s dream and only science or the scientific attitude can ensure a rapid and balanced progress of our country’s economy. By “science” I do not mean institutes of technology, which are no doubt absolutely essential, but the nurturing of fundamental science, whose demands and application improve technology by quantum jumps. I could cite the example of the CERN laboratory in Geneva to emphasise this aspect. The irrepressible desire of humankind to discover the most elementary building blocks of nature, Higgs Bosons, led CERN scientists in collaboration with the best and the most innovative engineers to develop and embark on the most advanced, large-scale modern technology of superconductivity and the associated cryogenics, unprecedentedly fast electronics, vacuum technology and even very accurate tunnel technology through 27km, which is a miracle in the sphere of mechanical engineering. Indeed, the whole of Central Europe has benefited vastly from these ventures, which have made science the driving force behind the most advanced technology in the world. Here, at home, while building the superconducting cyclotron in Calcutta we had to learn and master similar challenges on a smaller scale. We are just beginning to get technological dividends from this process of amalgamating fundamental science and applied technology. What we direly need is the build-up of the motivated scientific manpower to take on the challenge. One needs to confess that the New Education Policy has shown scant respect for this scientific-creative endeavour. I ask, where is the will? All efforts in this crucial direction have been drowned in blinding propaganda and misleading metaphors. The political leaders of the day should never overlook the basic fact that the demand of fundamental science is the nurturing ground of tomorrow’s technology. The investment in this sphere could be relatively small but the returns would be huge. Q: Good that you have recalled the role of political leaders. There appears to be a serious conflict between political ideology and education policy, which applies even to the language used for our education. Sinha: You have hit the nail on the head. One can certainly teach in vernacular up to a certain class in school, but surely not in our IITs, NITs and IISERs. Higher education cannot be vernacularised by bringing in all kinds of fantastic Puranic myths like flying carpets, plastic surgery and so on and so forth. This sort of dogmatic, linguistic horror will crush our educational system and thereby our human resources. We have two big impediments. One is the choice of language and the other is the choice of subject matter. Basic science cannot be taught after a certain level in the vernacular and, moreover, the subject matter should avoid, at all cost, invocations of Hindutva. The education policy, one has to admit, wants to be broad-based, flexible and secular. But, on the other side, a central minister goes to IIT Kharagpur where he declares that the “Rameswaram Setu” is a marvel of ancient Indian science. Not only does he himself indulge in this fantasy, he also invites the others in the auditorium to agree with him. The expression “Hindutva” and the showering of inappropriate eulogies on ancient Indian science have no role to play in education policy. Q: This irreconcilable battle between religious ideology and humanistic science has a long history. Will the New Education Policy be also a site for war between ancient faith and a modern rational weltanschauung? Sinha: You are correct. There has always been a conflict between political or religious ideology and enlightening knowledge. Giordano Bruno was burnt at the stakes for professing rational knowledge; Galileo had to send his Discorsi beyond the borders of his country to save it from the hands of corrupters; the great (Isaac) Newton had to spend a substantial part of his time on theology without much success and Albert Einstein had to leave his country. India, indeed, has been a great exception. Liberal education and rational science have flourished here right from the days of Harappa and Mohenjo Daro. They were carried through in bits and pieces up to the Nehruvian era but, at the same time, were somewhat diluted by the Mahatma whose extraordinarily original philosophy of life was deliberately distorted by desecrators.
We have to bear in mind that religious chauvinism can create havoc; it is far worse than addiction to opium. We can only sincerely hope that the light of the New Education Policy would remove the lurking darkness of the dogma of religion, which forbids rational positivism.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-406
18-01-2021||India||Tejashwi appeals to Nitish to control crimes||Leader of Opposition in Bihar, Tejashwi Prasad Yadav, attacked chief minister Nitish Kumar asking him to control crime instead of allowing people to be sacrificed at the hands of the criminals with deteriorating law and order. He also termed the current National Democratic Alliance (NDA) government “a curse” for the state. “The situation is fearsome in the state. The criminals are ruling the roost here. We appeal to Nitish Kumar with folded hands. We know you are a weak chief minister, but please do not let the people to be sacrificed like carrots and tomatoes in your greed for the post. The condition of the people has become like insects,” Tejashwi said. “Control crime in the state. It is your responsibility. People are being continuously murdered. Women and girls are being raped every day. The director general of police (DGP) is also expressing helplessness. The fact is that you have been the chief minister for 16 years. If you also wash your hands off where will the people of Bihar go,” he asked. Expressing concern over the growing lawlessness in Bihar, the Rashtriya Janata Dal (RJD) leader pointed out that the present NDA government has come to power through the backdoor, and wants to cling to power at any cost. “These people just want to hold the positions they have. They are greedy for power. They don’t work for the people or share their misery, nor have to struggle for anything. This NDA government is a curse for the state,” he  said. Tejashwi also visited Chhapra and met the family members of Rupesh Kumar Singh, the IndiGo airlines station manager at the Patna airport, who was killed on Tuesday. The police have been unable to crack the case so far. Sharing details of his visit, which turned emotional when Rupesh’s father caught him and started weeping, Tejashwi said that he found it difficult to look into the eyes of the family members of the murdered airlines officer. “I just wonder how this insensitive chief minister is able to sleep despite several murders on a daily basis and the ongoing ‘goondaraj’ (rule of the goondas or criminals) in the state,” Tejashwi tweeted. The RJD leader also said that he would take the Grand Alliance MLAs to Delhi and meet the President if the law and situation in Bihar does not improve.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-406
18-01-2021||India||Britain to host G7 summit at Cornwall in June||Prime Minister Narendra Modi may have his first meeting with Joe Biden at the G7 summit in the quaint Cornwall village of Carbis Bay from June 11 to 13, surrounded by a landscape whose wild beauty has inspired many a romantic novel or murder mystery. After four years of being a cheerleader for Donald Trump, this will be an opportunity for Modi to reach out to the new American President and put behind him such slogans as “Abki bar Trump sarkar (This time, a Trump government)”. The summit host, British Prime Minister Boris Johnson, will also be seeking to repair his country’ “special relationship” with Biden, who once ridiculed him as “a physical and emotional clone of Donald Trump”. Biden strongly opposed Brexit, and warned there would be no US-UK free trade agreement if Britain’s exit from the European Union harmed the “Good Friday Agreement” with Ireland, with which he has family connections. It won’t help that Trump, the outgoing US President, once lauded Boris as “Britain Trump”. The choice of venue for the summit is no accident: Cornwall is one of the most scenic — and romantic — holiday locations in England. Britain’s hard-hit tourism industry has warmly welcomed the decision to organise the summit in Cornwall. The world leaders will be put up at Carbis Bay, with neighbouring St Ives and other sites in Cornwall, such as Falmouth, hosting international delegates and the media. “Cornwall is the perfect location for such a crucial summit,” Johnson gushed. The writer Daphne du Maurier placed three of her memorable novels — Rebecca, Jamaica Inn and Frenchman’s Creek — in Cornwall, where she spent much of her life. Alfred Hitchcock turned Rebecca into a classic movie in 1940, starring Laurence Olivier and Joan Fontaine. Among other novels that use Cornwall as almost a character are Ross Poldark by Winston Graham, Penmarric by Susan Howatch, The Camomile Lawn by Mary Wesley, The Shell Seekers by Rosamunde Pilcher, and Notes from an Exhibition by Patrick Gale. Agatha Christie’s Hercule Poirot too had to solve a murder mystery set in Cornwall, Peril at End House. As full members of the G7, the UK, Canada, France, Germany, Italy, Japan and the US will attend, along with the European Union. But Johnson has also asked along the leaders of India, Australia and South Korea. Prince Charles will probably put in an appearance to add the royal touch to proceedings. One of his titles is “Duke of Cornwall”, while his wife Camilla, who incidentally loves books, is known as the “Duchess of Cornwall”. Julian German, leader of the Cornwall Council, said: “This is a fantastic opportunity to showcase the best of Cornwall and the UK on the world stage.” Malcolm Bell, chief executive of Visit Cornwall, added: “Cornwall has been voted the best holiday region in the UK but is little known to many countries around the world. The G7 leaders’ summit will showcase the beauty of Cornwall.” Johnson has reminded his would-be guests: “Two hundred years ago Cornwall’s tin and copper mines were at the heart of the UK’s industrial revolution and this summer Cornwall will again be the nucleus of great global change and advancement. I’m very much looking forward to welcoming world leaders to this great region and country.” He explained his choice of guests: “As the most prominent grouping of democratic countries, the G7 has long been the catalyst for decisive international action to tackle the greatest challenges we face. From cancelling developing world debt to our universal condemnation of Russia’s annexation of Crimea, the world has looked to the G7 to apply our shared values and diplomatic might to create a more open and prosperous planet. “The coronavirus is doubtless the most destructive force we have seen for generations and the greatest test of the modern world order we have experienced. It is only right that we approach the challenge of building back better by uniting with a spirit of openness to create a better future.” Biden may also visit Britain in November for the COP26 climate change conference in Glasgow. Its president is an Indian, Alok Sharma, who has stepped down from his job as business secretary although Johnson is keeping him in the cabinet.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-406
