19-01-2021||India||‘Tandav’ makers apologise, agree to implement changes||Facing backlash after its release, the cast and crew of Amazon Prime Video web series Tandav said on Tuesday that they have decided to implement changes to the political thriller to address concerns of protesters. A nine-episode political drama, Tandav found itself at the centre of a huge controversy over its depiction of Hindu deities, after it started streaming last week. The show stars Bollywood A-listers Saif Ali Khan, Dimple Kapadia and Mohd Zeeshan Ayyub. At the centre of the row is a scene with Zeeshan Ayyub, in the role of college student Shiva, playing the Hindu god Mahadev in a theatre production. In an official statement, the team reiterated that they had no intention to hurt anyone’s sentiments. “We did not intend to hurt or offend the sentiments of any individual, caste, community, race, religion or religious beliefs or insult or outrage any institution, political party or person, living or dead... We once again apologise if the series has unintentionally hurt anybody's sentiments,,” the statement read. “The cast and crew of Tandav have made the decision to implement changes to the web series to address the concerns raised towards the same,” the statement read. The team also thanked the Ministry of Information and Broadcasting for the guidance and support in the matter. As the controversy escalated for the third day, the makers tried to defuse the situation by announcing their decision to remove the controversial portion from the show, which balances intrigue in Delhi's corridors of power with hot button issues such as student unrest and farmer protests. Tandav , which literally translates to ‘dance of destruction’, is the focus of multiple FIRs, three in Uttar Pradesh and another in Madhya Pradesh. There have been calls for its boycott on social media and from politicians of different states for allegedly hurting the religious sentiments with its depiction of Hindu deities. In their statement on Monday, the makers had said their show is a work of fiction. “The cast and crew of Tandav take cognisance of the concerns expressed by the people and unconditionally apologize if it has unintentionally hurt anybody's sentiments,” it said. Despite their apology, the storm over the web series refused to die down on Tuesday with an FIR being lodged against the makers in Greater Noida, Uttar Pradesh. The FIR names as accused series' director Zafar, Amazon Prime's India head Aparna Purohit, producer Himanshu Kishan Mehra, writer Gaurav Solanki and actors Saif, Dimple Kapadia and Sunil Grover.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-402
19-01-2021||India||Farmers protest: Constitutional right to voice demands, agitators say ahead of R-day march||Preparations are in full gear among farmers to hold their tractor rally on Republic Day, the protesting unions said amid looming uncertainties, adding that authorities should facilitate the “peaceful march”, instead of stopping it. After the Delhi Police sought an injunction on the tractor rally, the Supreme Court on Monday said the decision on it has to be taken by the Centre and the police, and the official permission is yet to be worked out. Protesting unions, which plan to hold the rally on the Outer Ring Road in Delhi on January 26, have begun holding tractor rallies at villages in Punjab to mobilise people for the parade and said more farmers will be heading to the national capital in batches later this week. “There is a great enthusiasm among people in Punjab to become part of the tractor parade. Our batches will start moving towards Delhi from January 23 and 24,” Bhartiya Kisan Union (Ekta Ugrahan) general secretary Sukhdev Singh Kokrikalan said. Bhartiya Kisan Union (Sidhupur) president Jagjit Singh Dallewal said 20,000-25,000 tractors would come to Delhi from Punjab alone for the planned parade. “We want the government to give us permission for our rally. This is our country and it is our constitutional right to voice our needs and demands,” said Amarjeet Singh Rarra, general secretary, Deaba Kisan Committee, said on Delhi's Singhu border. “We will march with our farmer unions’ flags and the national flag. So if they fight us, they will be fighting the tiranga,” he said. He added that instead of preventing the farmers from taking out the march, the Centre and the police should provide a safe corridor for the rally . While the final plan for the rally is yet to be formulated, volunteers from among the protestors have been roped in to ensure discipline during the march, farmers said. “We met the police today to tell them that our rally will be completely non-violent, and they said they will scrutinise the route details and get back to us tomorrow,” said Lakhbir Singh, All India Kisan Sabha, State Vice President (Punjab). “We also want to see what the government has to say tomorrow at the talks. We will then finalise the plan in 1-2 days,” he added. The tractor rally, protesters said, was happening because the government had failed to meet their demands in the last two months, and would be a way to display the farmers’ unity . “Our farmer union leaders have provided the government the road map of the parade in advance, so there shouldn't be any reason to not allow us. We have been protesting peacefully till now, and our rally will also be non-violent. It is our constitutional right to be able to enter Delhi,” said Kurlal Singh from Punjab’s Tarn Taran district. “Rehearsals for the rally are going on back home in our villages. The volunteers here are being told how to maintain decorum during the march,” said Sukhjit Singh Sidhu, a protesting farmer from Patiala who has been camping at the Delhi-Haryana border since November 26. Lakhs of people will turn up here from Thursday, after gurupurab (Guru Gobind Singh's birth anniversary) tomorrow, he said. Meanwhile, the next round of talks with the government is scheduled for Wednesday. The talks have failed to yield any concrete result as the agitating unions have stuck to their main demand for repealing the agri laws and the government has ruled out any such step. Union Agriculture Minister Narendra Singh Tomar on Monday hoped that protesting farmer unions will discuss alternatives other than the repeal of the laws in the tenth round of talks and appealed to them not to go ahead with their tractor rally. “I want to appeal to farmers that January 26 is our Republic Day and the country has got independence after much sacrifice. Ensuring that the dignity of the Republic day is not affected is the responsibility of farmers also. I hope they will reconsider their decision,” he had said.Farmers protest: Constitutional right to voice demands, agitators say ahead of R-day march||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-402
19-01-2021||India||Food in Parliament canteen to become costlier||Food served in Parliament canteens for MPs and others will become costlier as a subsidy given for it has been stopped, Lok Sabha Speaker Om Birla said on Tuesday. While Birla did not specify the financial implications of the move, sources said the Lok Sabha Secretariat can annually save more than Rs 8 crore with the subsidy coming to an end. Talking to reporters about preparations for the next Parliament session, beginning January 29, Birla also said the Parliament canteens will now be run by ITDC in place of Northern Railways. Birla said all Members of Parliament will be requested to undergo the COVID-19 test before the start of the Budget session. While Rajya Sabha will sit from 9 am to 2 pm, Lok Sabha will function in the second half from 4-8 pm. The Question Hour will be allowed during the session for an already fixed time of one hour. He said all arrangements have also been made for RTPCR COVID-19 tests of MPs near their residence. In Parliament premises, the RTPCR tests will be conducted on January 27-28, while arrangements have also been made for these tests of families and staff members of MPs. Birla said the vaccination drive policy finalised by the Centre and states will apply to parliamentarians as well.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-402
19-01-2021||India||People vaccinated so far more than double the amount of India's active caseload||A total of 4,54,049 beneficiaries have so far been vaccinated against Covid-19 in the country which is more than double the number of coronavirus active cases, the Union Health Ministry said on Tuesday. In a span of 24 hours, 2,23,669 people were vaccinated for Covid-19 across 3,930 sessions taking the cumulative total of people vaccinated to 4,54,049 (across 7,860 sessions conducted so far) in the country, the ministry said. India's total COVID-19 active caseload has dropped to 2 lakh (2,00,528) as on date which consists of just 1.90 per cent of the total cases, while the daily new cases have touched a new low on Tuesday with 10,064 daily new infections being added to the national tally after seven months. The daily new cases were 10,956 on June 12, 2020, the ministry said. "The fall in the number of daily new cases is accompanied by a fast rising number of people getting vaccinated against COVID-19 across all states and UTs," it said. "The total number of people vaccinated is more than double the number of active cases," the ministry highlighted. The COVID-19 positivity rate has also seen a deep dip with the increase in number of testing infrastructure. India's weekly positivity rate is 1.97 per cent, the ministry said underlining 22 states and UTs have a weekly positivity rate less than the national average. Thirteen states and UTs have weekly positivity rate more than the national average, it stated. The country has recorded less than 140 fatalities (137 fatalities) in a span of 24 hours after approximately 8 months, it said. The total number of recoveries has touched 1,02,28,753, while the number of active cases in the country stands at 2,08,012. A total of 17,411 recoveries have been registered in a span of 24 hours in the country. The ministry said that 80.41 per cent of the new recovered cases are observed from ten states and UTs. Kerala has reported the highest number of recoveries with 3,921 newly recovered cases in single day. A total of 3,854 people have been recovered in Maharashtra in the past 24 hours followed by 1,301 in Chhattisgarh. Over 71 per cent of the new cases are from six states and UTs. Kerala continues to report the highest number of daily new cases at 3,346. It is followed by Maharashtra and Tamil Nadu with 1,924 and 551 new cases, respectively. Eight states and UTs have reported 72.99 per cent of the total fatalities happened in a span of 24 hours. Maharashtra has reported 35 deaths. Kerala also saw a fatality count of 17 while West Bengal reported 10 new deaths.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-402
19-01-2021||India||Covaxin not safe for pregnant or breastfeeding women, says Bharat Biotech||Bharat Biotech's fact sheet on Covid-19 vaccine Covaxin has advised pregnant or breastfeeding women, besides people with high fever or bleeding disorders, not to take the antidote. The vaccine maker in the fact sheet on Covaxin, posted in its website, said the clinical efficacy of the vaccine is yet to be established and is being studied in Phase 3 clinical trial and hence it is important to appreciate that receiving the vaccine does not mean other precautions related to Covid- 19 need not be followed. "You should not get Bharat Biotech's Covid-19 vaccine Covaxin if you have any history of allergies. Or any other serious health-related issues, as determined by the vaccinator/ Officer supervising vaccination," the fact sheet said. The fact sheet also asked people to inform the vaccinator or a supervising official about their medical condition before taking the vaccine. Bharat Biotech said in an ongoing clinical trial Covaxin has been shown to generate immunity following two doses given four weeks apart. Covaxin is a vaccine with approval for restricted use in emergency situations that may prevent Covid-19. The Central Licensing Authority has granted permission for the sale or distribution of the antidote for restricted use in emergency situations in the public interest as an abundant precaution, in clinical trial mode, the fact sheet said. Covaxin is a highly purified and inactivated two-dose SARS-CoV-2 vaccine, manufactured in a Vero cell manufacturing platform with an excellent safety track record of more than 300 million doses, the company had said. Covaxin is India's totally indigenous Covid-19 vaccine developed in collaboration with the Indian Council of Medical Research and National Institute of Virology. The inactivated vaccine is developed and manufactured in Bharat Biotech's BSL-3 (Bio-Safety Level 3) biocontainment facility, one of its kind in the world.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-402
19-01-2021||India||Withdraw new privacy policy: India’s letter to WhatsApp CEO||Amid a huge backlash by users, the Indian government has asked WhatsApp to withdraw its latest changes in privacy policy, saying unilateral changes are not fair and acceptable. The Ministry of Electronics and Information Technology, in a letter to WhatsApp CEO Will Cathcart, said India has the largest user base of the messaging platform and is one the biggest markets for its services. The proposed changes to the WhatsApp Terms of Service and Privacy Policy “raise grave concerns regarding the implications for the choice and autonomy of Indian citizens,” it wrote. The ministry asked WhatsApp to withdraw the proposed changes and reconsider its approach to information privacy, freedom of choice and data security. Stating that Indians should be properly respected, it said, “any unilateral changes to the WhatsApp Terms of Service and Privacy would not be fair and acceptable.” Communications, Electronics and IT Minister Ravi Shankar Prasad also noted on Tuesday that national security will be central with regard to exposure of international companies, including those from China, in the country. “This is an issue that my department is (working) on, and being the final authority, it will not be proper for me to make comments. But except to flag one thing very clearly. Be it WhatsApp, be it Facebook, be it any digital platform. You are free to do business in India but do it in a manner without impinging upon the rights of Indians who operate there,” he said while addressing  the 15th India Digital Summit. He added that the sanctity of personal communications needs to be maintained. “I've only spoken on principles, given that my department is working. I have to await that,” he said. Earlier this month, WhatsApp had informed users of an update in its terms of service and privacy policy around how it processes user data and partners with Facebook to offer integrations across the social media giant's products. Users had till February 8, to agree to the new terms in order to continue using the platform. However, WhatsApp drew flak from users across the globe, including India that ranks among the biggest markets for WhatsApp with over 400 million users. Following this, WhatsApp has now decided to delay the rollout of its new policy update to May 15, and said it will “do a lot more to clear up the misinformation around how privacy and security works on WhatsApp”. WhatsApp had also stated that it is open to answering any questions from the government on the issue and that it remains committed to the privacy and security of users across India.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-403
19-01-2021||India||New laws ‘designed to destroy’ agriculture sector, says Rahul Gandhi||Congress leader Rahul Gandhi on Tuesday accused the Centre of designing the new farm laws to “destroy” the agriculture sector, while asserting that repealing them is the only way to solve the farmers’ issue. Addressing a press conference, the former Congress president said, “I support the protesting farmers 100 per cent and every single person in the country should support them as they are fighting for us.” "He also released a booklet highlighting the “plight” of farmers in the wake of the Centre’s three farm laws. He alleged that the laws will put the entire agriculture sector in the hands of “three to four crony capitalists”. The Centre's new farm laws are “designed to destroy” the agriculture sector, he further said. When asked about the impasse in talks between the Centre and the protesting farmers, Gandhi said repealing the legislations is the only way to end the deadlock. Hitting back at BJP president J.P. Nadda for his tweets earlier in the day criticising him, the Congress leader said it was an “attempted distraction”. “The farmers know that it was Rahul Gandhi who stood up in Bhatta Parsaul and over the land acquisition issue, not BJP leader Nadda,” he said. “I am not afraid of anyone, neither of (Prime Minister Narendra) Modi nor of anyone else. I am a clean person, they can’t touch me. They can shoot me, but can't touch me. I am a patriot and I protect my country, and I will keep doing it,” he added. He further hit back at Nadda, who had in a series of tweets targeted him for attacking the government over a report saying that China had built a village in Arunachal Pradesh on the Indian side of the border. “Now that Mr Rahul Gandhi has returned from his monthly vacation, I would like to ask him some questions. I hope he will answer them in today's Press Conference,” Nadda had said. “Who is he that I have to answer to him? Is he my professor? I will answer to the country,” Gandhi said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-403
19-01-2021||India||SC panel to meet farmers, stakeholders on January 21||Anil Ghanwat, a key member of the Supreme Court appointed panel on the three contentious farm laws, said on Tuesday that the board will not let their personal views on these Acts come in the way of their deliberations with various stakeholders. He further asserted that they are not on the side of any party or the government. The panel met for the first time on Tuesday at the Pusa campus in New Delhi. Ghanwat revealed that the first round of consultations with farmers and other stakeholders has been scheduled for Thursday. On January 11, the top court had set up a four-member panel on the laws, but one of them, Bhupinder Singh Mann, recused himself later after questions were raised by the agitating farmer unions about the views expressed by all members in the past in support of the Acts. Separately, nine rounds of talks have taken place between the government and agitating unions without any concrete resolution. Ghanwat, the  president of the Shetkari Sanghatana, said the panel will hold its first round of talks with farmers and other stakeholders on January 21. “The biggest challenge for the panel is to convince agitating farmers to come and speak with us. We will try our best,” he said. Ghanwat further said the committee will seek views of farmers and all other stakeholders on the new farm laws, besides the central and state governments. “Panel members will keep their personal views on farm laws aside while preparing a report to be submitted to the Supreme Court,” he said. The committee has been appointed by the Supreme Court and it is up to the apex court whom to appoint, he said on whether any replacement would be made for Mann. “We have been given a responsibility and we will fulfill it properly,” Ghanwat said. “We want to request those farmers who don't want to come before us that we are neither from any party nor from the government side. We are from the Supreme Court side,” he said on allegations by the agitating unions and opposition parties that all the members were pro-government. “Come and talk to us. We will listen to you and present your views before the court. We request them to come and speak to us,” Ghanwat said. Thousands of farmers are protesting against the three farm laws on Delhi borders for almost two months now.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-403
19-01-2021||India||Centre places order for 45 lakh more doses of Covaxin||Bharat Biotech has secured a fresh Letter of Comfort from the Centre for another 45 lakh doses of its COVID-19 vaccine, Covaxin, sources said. Out of the 45 lakh doses, the city-based vaccine maker will be supplying over eight lakh to some of the friendly countries such as Mauritius, Philippines and Myanmar, free of cost as goodwill gesture, sources added. "The company was given a fresh letter of comfort recently for supplying another 45 lakh doses of Covaxin. The doses will be dispatched as when the Ministry places orders with the company," sources told PTI. After having received the government purchase order for 55lakh doses, BharatBiotechshipped the first batch of vaccines (each vial containing 20 doses) to Gannavaram (Vijayawada), Guwahati, Patna, Delhi, Kurukshetra, Bangalore, Pune, Bhubaneswar, Jaipur, Chennai and Lucknow, it said. Bharat Biotech said it has also donated 16.5 lakh doses to the Government of India. Sources further said the supplies from the company depend on the orders being placed by the government.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-403
19-01-2021||India||Good news: in Covid recovered patients, antibodies last six months  ||A nationwide survey involving testing the blood of people to check for the presence of Covid-19 antibodies has turned up good news for those who’ve recovered from the coronavirus. Antibodies to protect against catching the virus again remain active for at least six months, the study by the Council of Scientific and Industrial Research (CSIR) suggests. “Even after six months, antibodies and neutralising antibodies, although they decreased from the initial values, were much above the (protection) threshold in most of the cases,” says Shantanu Sengupta who’s the senior principal scientist at the CSIR-Institute of Genomics and Integrative Biology (IGIB) and one of the study’s co-authors. The landmark study, the first of its kind to be conducted in India, also suggests that smokers and vegetarians enjoy a lower risk of catching the virus. Those with the O and A group blood types may be less likely, too, to get infected while those in the B and AB blood groups are at most risk from Covid, the report says. The CSIR-Institute of Genomics and Integrative Biology, known better as IGIB, surveyed staff and their family members at the CSIR’s more than 40 laboratories and institutes in 24 cities across India. It found that 10.14 per cent of 10,427 individuals surveyed had antibodies to SARS-CoV-2, the virus which causes Covid-19. “Use of private transport, lower (public) exposure occupations, smoking, vegetarianism, and ‘A’ or ‘O’ blood groups appeared to be protective (against Covid) using seropositivity as a surrogate for infection,” the report says. Seropositivity simply means showing a positive result in a blood test for a particular antibody. Antibodies are substances in the blood that fight disease. Seroprevalence was highest for blood group type AB (10.19 per cent) followed by group B (9·94 per cent), group O (7.09 per cent) and the lowest for group A (6.97 per cent). A follow-up survey carried out on 346 seropositive individuals after three months found “stable” to “higher” antibody levels against SARS-CoV-2, while there was a fall in Covid virus-neutralizing plasma activity. A repeat check on 35 participants at six months showed declining antibody levels but the neutralising plasma antibodies remained steady compared with the level recorded three months earlier. Even so -- and this is the crucial takeaway -- both the normal antibody levels as well as the neutralizing plasma antibodies were still above the level required to fight off infection. “Even after six months, antibodies and neutralising antibodies, although they decreased from the initial values, they were much above the (protection) threshold in most of the cases,” Sengupta says. “This is an important finding that means people who are already infected and seropositive, their antibodies will remain intact at least for six months,” he says. The study found that 95 per cent of the seropositive individuals also had "significant plasma virus-neutralising activity." “The antibodies are much higher than the threshold. That’s very heartening to know,” adds Sengupta. The institute plans to continue following the same people “for a long time so see how many are getting infected and how stable the antibodies are,” he says. It’s the first time in India that researchers have tracked individuals for six months to check for Covid-19 antibodies. And the institute plans to keep on following the same people “for a long time so see how many are getting infected and how stable the antibodies are,” Sengupta says. The institute chose to study its staff because of the large number of employees and students that it could survey as well as its geographic reach with centres in 24 cities across India. The staff and students represented a socio-economic snapshot of India.  “The CSIR is present in all parts of the country and CSIR individuals represent the urban middle-class as well as contractual staff and the low socio-economic class. That’s why we say we captured the entire nation,” Sengupta says. “About 15-16 per cent of the people who were of lower socio-economic status were seropositive while for the others it was 5-6 per cent,” he notes. The aggregate seropositivity of 10.14 per cent suggests that more than 100 million Indians were infected by last September, primarily in larger cities but the illness was rapidly spreading all over the nation at that time. Most seropositive individuals had occupational exposure risk such as being in public-facing jobs working as security guards. Significant symptoms were recalled by only 25 per cent of those surveyed, with 75 per cent recalling no symptoms at all. At the same time, the paper says that “herd immunity does not seem to be in sight and an effective vaccine may be necessary to control this pandemic. Large cities have high seropositivity rates, “but the majority of India continues to have low-to-moderate seropositivity,” the researchers said. The study also sought to determine whether seropositivity could be an indicator of future virus outbreaks. Researchers plotted on a graph the rate of new cases before and after the date of taking blood samples. The researchers found that “higher seropositivity predicted declining new cases, while the largest increases were seen exclusively in areas of low seropositivity. This is “a very important message we wanted to give from this study. This way (through seropositivity) you’ll be actually able to predict which are the places which will have more prevalence of the disease,” Sengupta says. The study’s observation that smokers are less likely to be Covid seropositive is the first such finding involving the Indian population. Non-smokers recorded a higher seroprevalence of 10.11 per cent, as opposed to smokers (6.88 per cent). The finding contributes to a growing body of evidence which suggests that despite COVID being a respiratory disease, smoking may be protective. Two studies from France and similar reports from Italy, New York and China have also found lower Covid infection rates among smokers. “That smokers have a lower seropositivity rate has been found in various countries but they were all hospital-based studies. This is the first population study to suggest that,” says Sengupta.  “But in no way are we supporting the idea that smoking is good,” he adds, laughing. The French study carried out at the Pitie-Salpetriere hospital suggested that a substance in tobacco – possibly nicotine – might be stopping patients who smoke from catching Covid-19. Clinical trials of nicotine patches are awaiting the approval of the country’s health authorities. However, the French researchers said that while nicotine may protect smokers from the virus, those who have caught Covid often develop more serious symptoms because of the harmful effect of tobacco smoke on the lungs. The Italian study showed that smokers were five times less likely to end up in the hospital with Covid but -- and this is key -- nearly twice as likely to die if they were admitted. Non-vegetarians, meanwhile, had a seroprevalence rate of 11 per cent, while seropositivity among vegetarians was 6·86 per cent.  One possible reason scientists put forward for the lower infection rate among vegetarians is that they consume a plant-based fibre-rich diet that promotes gut health which in turn can enhance immunity. Occupation also figures importantly in infection risk. The researchers clubbed the individuals surveyed into two broad categories: CSIR staff and so-called “outsourced staff.” The staff consisted of faculty, students, office staff and family members. The outsourced staff worked in such areas as security, housekeeping and grounds maintenance. The CSIR staff had a positivity of 7.98 per cent, while positivity for the outsourced staff, who have more interaction with the general public and often travel by public travel, was more than double that rate at 16.22 per cent. Interestingly, the presence or absence of diabetes, hypertension and cardiovascular disease were not found to have a significant effect on seropositivity. The highest virus positivity rate was found in Hyderabad at 18 per cent of the 2,073 people whose blood was tested for Covid antibodies (eight percentage points higher than the national virus positivity rate). The second-highest positivity rate was detected in Chennai at 16 per cent, followed by Delhi at 14 per cent. Large cities have high seropositivity rates, but the majority of India continues to have low-to-moderate seropositivity, the study says. The study provides an important “snapshot across multiple geographies” and it confirms that by last September “there was a wide but uneven spread of the pandemic with the epidemic subsequently growing more rapidly in regions with low seropositivity,” the researchers conclude. On the bright side, Covid cases now are “constantly falling,” says Sengupta, outlining two potential reasons.  “It’s possible a lot of people have already been infected. Secondly, people have understood and are taking more precautions,” he says. "And if enough people have already obtained immunity, that’s definitely good.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-403
19-01-2021||India||India's logs 10,064 fresh Covid cases, the lowest in seven months||India reported the lowest number of daily coronavirus infections in over seven months with 10,064 new cases, which took the caseload to 1,05,81,837, while recoveries have surged to 1,02,28,753, according to Union health ministry data updated on Tuesday. The country's death toll increased to 1,52,556 as 137 fatalities, the lowest in around eight months, were recorded in a span of 24 hours, the data updated at 8 am showed. The number of people who have recuperated from the disease surged to 1,02,28,753, pushing the national COVID-19 recovery rate to 96.66 per cent, while the COVID-19 case fatality rate stands at 1.44 per cent. The COVID-19 active caseload remained below three lakh. There are 2,00,528 active COVID-19 cases in the country which comprise 1.90 per cent of the total caseload, the data stated. India's COVID-19 tally had crossed 20 lakh on August 7, 30 lakh on August 23, 40 lakh on September 5 and 50 lakh on September 16. It went past 60 lakh on September 28, 70 lakh on October 11, crossed 80 lakh on October 29, 90 lakh on November 20 and surpassed the one-crore mark on December 19. According to the Indian Council of Medical Research, 18,78,02,827 samples have been tested up to January 18 with 7,09,791 samples being tested on Monday. The 137 new fatalities include 35 from Maharashtra, 17 from Kerala, 10 from West Bengal, nine from Karnataka, and eight each from Delhi and Tamil Nadu. A total of 1,52,556 deaths have been reported so far in the country, including 50,473 from Maharashtra followed by 12,272 from Tamil Nadu, 12,175 from Karnataka, 10,754 from Delhi, 10,063 from West Bengal, 8,580 from Uttar Pradesh, 7,141 from Andhra Pradesh and 5,509 from Punjab. The health ministry stressed that more than 70 per cent of the deaths occurred due to comorbidities. "Our figures are being reconciled with the Indian Council of Medical Research," the ministry said on its website, adding that state-wise distribution of figures is subject to further verification and reconciliation.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-403
19-01-2021||India||Very dense fog lowers visibility to zero in parts of Delhi ||Very dense fog blanketed parts of Delhi on Tuesday, reducing visibility to zero metres and affecting traffic movement, the India Meteorological Department (IMD) said. The minimum temperature dropped to 6.9 degrees Celsius as northwesterly winds from the snow-clad western Himalayas have started blowing towards the plains, an IMD official said. On Monday, Delhi's minimum temperature stood at 9 degrees Celsius, two notches more than normal, due to party cloudy weather and easterly winds which are not as cold as northwesterly winds. The IMD said that very dense fog lowered visibility to zero metres at Palam at 8:30 am. Visibility level was 300 metres at Safdarjung. According to the IMD, very dense fog is when visibility is between 0 and 50 metres. In case of dense fog, visibility is between 51 and 200 metres, moderate 201 and 500 metres, and shallow 501 and 1,000 metres.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-403
19-01-2021||India||Centre guarded on China village report in India-claimed territory in Arunachal Pradesh||The external affairs ministry was on Monday guarded in its response to a news report about a new Chinese village coming up on India-claimed territory in Arunachal Pradesh that has been under Chinese control for years. The ministry did not deny the report outright, underlining that China had in the past too undertaken such construction. “In response, our government too has stepped up border infrastructure, including the construction of roads, bridges, etc, which has provided much-needed connectivity to the local population along the border,” the ministry said. “(The) government keeps a constant watch on all developments having a bearing on India’s security and takes all the necessary measures to safeguard its sovereignty and territorial integrity.” According to an NDTV report, the new Chinese village consists of some 101 homes. Satellite images dated November 1, 2020, show the settlement is about 4.5km within India-claimed territory. The village, located on the banks of the Tsari Chu river, lies in the Upper Subansiri district, which has long been disputed territory. Satellite imagery of the same place from August 2019 suggests that the village, made up of a neat row of houses, has come up within 15 months. Arunachal East MP Tapir Gao had in November 2019 warned the Lok Sabha about such constructions. Gao told The Telegraph on Monday that the village had come up since he had flagged the issue in the Lok Sabha but added that such construction had been going on in the area since 1984. He said border development had picked up pace under the Narendra Modi government but conceded that this had not deterred China from carrying out its own construction projects. “They have constructed a two-lane road and a mini-hydel project,” Gao said. He urged the media to use the term “McMahon Line” for the border in Arunachal Pradesh and not “the Line of Actual Control”. “In Arunachal Pradesh, it is not LAC but McMahon Line,” he said, arguing that calling it anything else is to push the Chinese narrative.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-403
19-01-2021||India||Farmers' protest: ‘misunderstood’ SC keeps hands off tractor rally||The Supreme Court on Monday said it was for the government to decide whether to allow the farmers’ proposed tractor rally in Delhi on Republic Day, handing a snub to the Centre that had wanted the court to decide the tricky issue. The court decision to stay out of the matter comes amid mounting criticism of the way it had earlier intervened in the government-farmer dispute by forming a committee of mediators and staying the implementation of the three laws the farmers are protesting against. The bench, headed by Chief Justice of India S.A. Bobde, appeared mindful of that controversy on Monday, saying its intervention had been “misunderstood”. On the proposed January 26 “Kisan Parade” by the farmers, who are now massed on Delhi’s borders, it said “who can be allowed and who cannot be allowed” has to be decided by the police. “Mr Attorney-General, you must understand that intervention of this court has unfortunately been misunderstood. Who will come to the city and who will be allowed is not something for us to see,” Justice Bobde told attorney-general K.K. Venugopal during a brief hearing. “Invoke all your powers to see whether farmers can be allowed in the city. Who can be allowed and who cannot be allowed are matters of law and order which is to be dealt by police.” The oral observation came on an application from the Centre for a court direction to prevent the tractor rally on the ground that Khalistanis had infiltrated the farmers’ protest and could disturb peace if the parade was allowed to enter Delhi. With the farmers’ protest turning into a politically sensitive issue, the Centre has increasingly been keen on firing from the court’s shoulders. A couple of the apex court’s recent decisions have prompted some legal experts to accuse it of overstepping its limits to provide the Centre with just that option. The court’s move to stay the three contentious laws’ implementation rather than examine their constitutionality has attracted the charge of straying into the legislature’s domain. Its constitution of a four-member mediation committee has been rejected by the farmers who say they want to talk to the government directly. The choice of the panel’s four members — all of whom had earlier supported the new farm laws — has fuelled further controversy, which deepened when one of the four resigned “so as to not compromise the interests of Punjab and farmers of the country”. On Monday, when Venugopal insisted that the court pass an order, Justice Bobde remarked: “We said this last time that entry to Delhi has to be seen by Delhi police…. We cannot be the first authority. Does Union of India need Supreme Court to tell what powers it has under the Police Act?” “This is an extraordinary situation,” Venugopal persisted, prompting the Chief Justice to say: “But why do you want us to tell what powers you have?” The court, however, adjourned the matter for further hearing on Wednesday since Justice A.S. Bopanna and V. Ramasubramanian, who had been part of the bench that had passed the earlier orders on the matter, were absent on Monday. Justices L. Nageswara Rao and Vineet Saran were filling in for them. Justice Bobde said the regular bench would hear the matter on Wednesday.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-403
19-01-2021||India||Profit-making companies can set up medical colleges attached to profit-making hospitals ||Profit-making companies can now set up medical colleges that may be attached to profit-making hospitals under changed rules that academics have cited as another example of the “commercialisation of education” under the Narendra Modi government. The critics have underlined that the changes contradict the government’s own National Education Policy (NEP), which reaffirmed that education was a not-for-profit sector. The ball had been set rolling in May 2019 with the Board of Governors in Supersession of Medical Council of India Amendment Notification, which allowed consortiums comprising “society, trust or company” to set up medical colleges. Earlier, only registered trusts or societies or companies registered under Section 8 of the Companies Act — which are not-for profit entities — were allowed to set up educational institutions. The new notification mentioned “company” but not Section 8. However, the May 2019 notification wasn’t enough by itself for a profit-making company to set up a medical college — a similar relaxation was needed for the university to which the college would be affiliated. This came in the form of the UGC (Deemed to be Universities) Amendment Regulations, notified in November 2020, which allowed a college (not just a medical college) to be established as a collaboration between a deemed university and a company. In a clear allusion to medical colleges, these regulations say that a college can enter into an agreement with a hospital for practical training. The regulations add that the college should be a not-for-profit institution but make no such stipulation for the hospital. Entities that set up medical colleges have always had to establish the attached hospital too. These hospitals therefore shared the founding entities’ not-for-profit character. Abha Dev Habib, former member of Delhi University’s executive council, said hospitals attached to medical colleges served society by remaining not-for-profit entities. Now the hospitals to be set up by consortiums that include profit-making companies will be free to earn profits, which will deprive the poor of their service. “This is another example of the commercialisation of higher education in general, and health education in particular,” she said. “The orientation of medical students who are trained at private hospitals that charge high fees will be different. They will be influenced by the commercial model of treatment that demands the payment of high fees. The idea of service will be defeated.” She added: “This violates the NEP, which reiterates that education is a not-for-profit sector. This means the government has no regard for its own policy.” So far, profit-earning companies had to set up trusts or societies or Section 8 companies to be able to establish educational institutions. Any surplus money that the trust, society or company earned had to go towards expansion of the institution or subsidies for the students. Dr Vaibhav, a Gwalior-based medical practitioner, said that getting trained at profit-making hospitals could hamper the medical students’ education in many ways. The well-off patients going to such hospitals would demand that only senior and experienced doctors treat them, he said. They are also likely to refuse to let the students examine them for their own education — unlike patients at, say, government hospitals who have to endure such attention from morning till evening. “Mostly VIPs go to private hospitals. They would not want any student to touch them,” Dr Vaibhav said. “Many private hospitals now run DNB (a postgraduate diploma) courses. The students clear the exam and get the diploma without the confidence to practise independently. They train with some or other government hospital later. The same thing will happen at these colleges.”Further, hospitals that cater only to the well-off are likely to have a smaller pool of patients, which means the students may not witness as wide a variety of medical cases as their peers from non-profit-making hospitals. Agreeing with Habib, Dr Vaibhav said that while the new arrangement would help create more hospitals in the short term, it would also institutionalise “profiteering in medical education”. “This step will lead to more hospitals and more doctors, which will be good for the patients within the short term of a decade. But in the long term, it will increase the cost of medical education and produce young doctors who will jump into the market to make money.” Dr Vaibhav said that 65 per cent of medical colleges in India were private colleges attached to private hospitals that were required to plough their surplus money back into expansion and student subsidies. Allegations have always been there, however, about some private colleges, including medical colleges, making huge profits by illegally charging exorbitant capitation fees. Separate emails were sent to the education ministry and the UGC seeking their replies to the charge that the changing nature of medical education was contrary to the NEP. The mails elicited no response. The May 2019 notification defined a “consortium” as a group of not less than two – or more than four -- organisations such as a society or trust or company or university or deemed university. The consortium leader must have had an annual turnover not less than Rs 500 crore in the preceding financial year. It will have to apply to the government for permission to set up a medical college. One member of the consortium is to run the attached hospital. The medical college set up by the consortium will be treated as an off-campus arm of the deemed university that will award the degree.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-403
19-01-2021||India||Delhi police meets farmers on tractor rally||Delhi police on Monday held preliminary discussions with the Samyukta Kisan Morcha, which has announced plans to hold a farmers’ parade in New Delhi on Republic Day after the official parade ends. Joint commissioner of Delhi police Surinder Yadav held the meeting with the farmer leaders at Singhu border after the Supreme Court said it was up to the police to decide whether or not to allow the tractor parade. According to farmer union leaders, the main concern of the police was that security personnel are already stretched on Republic Day because of the main parade and other related events. “He will hold more discussions with us and put up a report to his seniors to take a final call,’’ said Hannan Mollah of All India Kisan Sabha, a constituent of the Morcha. The union leaders told the police officer that farmers are invested in ensuring that the Kisan Parade goes off peacefully as the success of their movement lies in the fact that it has been peaceful. “Our own credibility will go if it is not peaceful, we told him,’’ the AIKS general secretary told The Telegraph. Darshan Pal of the Krantikari Kisan Union, also part of the Morcha, said: “We gave them details of our route plan and assured the police that we do not intend to leave the Outer Ring of Delhi. Also, that our parade will in no manner disrupt the Republic Day Parade. The Joint CP was non-committal, saying ‘we will see’.” Preparations for the parade are in full flow even as the union leaders prepare for their 10th meeting with government interlocutors. The meeting was scheduled for Tuesday, but on Monday night the government postponed it to Wednesday afternoon, citing unavoidable reasons. Farmer leaders intend to again raise the issue of the government using the National Investigation Agency to browbeat people backing the protest into withdrawing their support. Over 40 farmer unions and collectives are agitating under the Morcha banner for repeal of the three new farm laws and for a legally guaranteed minimum support price. Tens of thousands of farmers have been gathered at Delhi’s borders since the last week of November to press the government to accept their demands. The Supreme Court-appointed committee on the farm laws is scheduled to meet for the first time on Tuesday. Women took the reins at the protest sites as they marked the day as “Women Farmers’ Day”, adds PTI. “The stage at the Singhu border was managed by only women and all the speakers were women. In different places across India, women farmers organised rallies, dharnas, and meetings,” said Kavitha Kuruganti of the All India Kisan Sangharsh Coordination Committee.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-404
19-01-2021||India||Congress steps up campaign against Balakot chats||A Youth Congress protest against the leak of sensitive national security secrets was foiled by Delhi police as the Opposition party stepped up its campaign against the explosive details in the WhatsApp chat of Republic TV managing director Arnab Goswami with Partho Dasgupta, ex-CEO of TV ratings agency BARC. The Congress, which has yet to hold a formal news conference on the matter, issued a tweet to dispel any doubts about its stand: “BJP+Arnab — Axis of betrayal. The Maharashtra unit of the party has decided to approach the state home minister Anil Deshmukh to order a separate enquiry into the revelations, as the central government hasn’t indicated its stance so far.” Deshmukh said in a statement: “We have called a meeting tomorrow (Tuesday) to decide our next course of action. The state government is also gathering information about the leaked chats between Goswami and Dasgupta. Some highly sensitive things, including the Balakot airstrike and the Pulwama attack, have been mentioned in the chats.” NCP spokesperson Nawab Malik also demanded a joint parliamentary committee to examine the controversy. Former chief minister Prithviraj Chavan said: “The voluminous transcript of Goswami’s chats released by Mumbai police is deeply disturbing. Who gave access to such sensitive information, from national security to constitutional amendments and political appointments? The Government of India must launch a thorough probe. Also, the parliamentary standing committee on defence must take this matter with utmost priority.” The police detained the Youth Congress workers, along with their president B.V. Srinivas, to prevent the march from moving ahead from the party office. They shouted slogans accusing the government of treason and betrayal and burnt three effigies together — of Prime Minister Narendra Modi, home minister Amit Shah and Goswami. The Youth Congress workers also chanted the infamous slogan — Desh ke gaddaron ko, goli maaro salon ko (Gun down the traitors) — which the BJP had used against anti-CAA protesters. Srinivas said: “It is a very serious matter. The Prime Minister must tell the nation who was leaking the sensitive information and act against him. The government is protecting Arnab who should have been behind bars. He has run away from Mumbai. Why are the central ministers and BJP leaders not speaking on the subject? The Congress is not going to spare these traitors in this matter.” The Congress ran a social media campaign, tweeting on several aspects of the chats. It asked: “Can you call an accused who talks of buying the judge a journalist?” Another post said: “Nationalist for BJP — Shares national security information with friends on WhatsApp, celebrates Pulwama attack, uses death of 40 jawans to increase TRP, spreads government propaganda. Anti-national for BJP — Feeds the nation, his children protect our nation at the border, toils in harshest weather and demands basic rights in peaceful protest.” One tweet said: “Nothing is sacred anymore, not the martyrdom of our brave jawans, not even national security secrets — the BJP has sold their soul to win elections. The BJP-Arnab nexus has been exposed & the true anti-nationals are out in the open now.” The Congress, which has decided to upgrade its attack step by step, has asked former Union ministers of defence and home to examine the issue in detail.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-404
19-01-2021||India||BJP Yuva Morcha leader held over attack||Keonjhar Town police on Monday detained Sanjay Mohanty, a senior BJP Yuva Morcha leader of the district, in connection with the attack bid on Odisha Pradesh Congress Committee president Niranjan Patnaik. The issue has triggered a political storm with the Congress threatening to start a statewide agitation if the police fail to arrest all the culprits involved in the incident in the next 24 hours. Keonjhar SP Mitrabhanu Mahapatra said four other accused had been identified and efforts were on to arrest them. An FIR had been lodged in connection with the incident with Keonjhar Town police. Patnaik’s vehicle was attacked by miscreants near Kashipur on Sunday evening when he was returning from the Keonjhar district Congress office after attending a programme. A Bolero intercepted Patnaik’s car near Kashipur around 8pm. As the leader’s personal security officer (PSO) tried to find out what was happening, three youths got down from the SUV and started beating the PSO. The attackers then turned their attention to the driver. In the meantime, an ambulance approached the spot and some Congress activists also reached there. The miscreants heard the siren of the ambulance and fled thinking that it was a police vehicle. Patnaik expressed shock at the incident in a series of tweets. “I was shocked to know that the miscreants were members of BJP’s Youth Wing. This is a clear case of political vendetta and desperation of BJP... Congress is the biggest hurdle for them,” he tweeted. “I am shaken by this incident! Not because it happened to me or because of the trauma it has caused me. I am shaken because if it can happen to me, how safe are our mothers and daughters in Odisha?” he added. Senior Congress MLA and former minister Suresh Kumar Routray said the party would launch a statewide agitation unless all the culprits involved in the incident were arrested. On the other hand, senior BJP legislator Mohan Charan Majhi, who hails from Keonjhar, dismissed the Congress’s allegations against his party as baseless. “The accused are not in the party. Sanjay Mohanty, detained by police, was earlier a BJP supporter. But he does not hold any post now,” Majhi told The Telegraph.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-404
19-01-2021||India||Accounts of victimisation by Maoists and State’s agencies in Chhattisgarh tumble out||Thousands of accounts of victimisation by Maoists and the State’s agencies in Chhattisgarh have tumbled out in days thanks to an NGO’s initiative of recording the victims’ testimonies. Three slum dwellers from Bijapur have said they pay the municipality Rs 300 to Rs 900 annually for the public land they have been squatting on since being evicted from their village by the erstwhile Salwa Judum, a state-backed anti-Maoist militia, in 2005. One of the three men, Ashok Minz, said the Maoists had killed his father that year. Malti Ursa of Bijapur’s Schoolpara village said the police had in June arrested her brother Ganesh, a farmer, on suspicion of being a Maoist, claiming he did not sleep at his own home. His wife Neelu now works as a wage labourer to provide for their two children. Bhime Markam, wife of slain National Minerals Development Corporation employee Mittu Markam, claims a local Maoist had him killed in 2015 out of jealousy at his prosperity. Bhime said the Maoist leadership later admitted the killing was a mistake. She told the Victim’s Register, an initiative by Bastar-based NGO New Peace Process, she was struggling to retain her quarters in Kirandul until both her children finished school. The Register, started this month, has already recorded over 5,000 testimonies. In response to posters, people are giving a missed call to the NGO, and are then being contacted by volunteers and journalists to have their testimonies recorded. Shubhranshu Choudhary, convener of the New Peace Process, told The Telegraph the NGO planned a 343km march by these victims from Danteshwari Temple in Dantewada to the secretariat in Raipur to demand rehabilitation and resettlement. The march will take place from March 12 to April 5 — coinciding with the dates Mahatma Gandhi started and ended his Dandi Salt Satyagraha in 1930. Danteshwari is a deity revered by both tribal and non -tribal communities. Choudhary said the idea stemmed from the Colombia government’s Single Registry of Victims, which has registered almost 9.1 million victims since being launched in 2012 and helped in virtually ending the Left-wing insurgency in the South American country. “In October, we hosted an online meeting of experts from countries that have been affected by Maoist insurgencies such as Colombia, Nepal, the Philippines and Cambodia,” Choudhary said. He added: “We want to get victims of both sides together. Most of the survivors are women, in need of mutual support. There are also displaced families in Chhattisgarh and outside, in Telangana and other states, who want to come back. “We are trying to raise their problems with the authorities and draw support from employment-generation activities like the production of bamboo-based fabrics and sanitary napkins.... This march will be their message to the Maoists and the government that enough is enough.” At the moment, Choudhary said, the testimonies are being taken at face value as the NGO lacks the resources to verify the claims — a task he hopes the state government will take up. Another Colombia-inspired initiative by the NGO — the distribution of menstrual cups and sanitary napkins among women, Maoists included, in rebel-held areas — has not found much success because of resistance from the rebels who have accused Choudhary of trying to undermine their movement. The state’s additional chief secretary (home), Subrat Sahoo, gave a cautious reaction to the initiative. “If there is an attempt at mitigating someone’s issues or reducing the burden of Naxalites on people, it is welcome.... This is not an endorsement of Mr Shubhranshu Choudhary’s work,” he said. Choudhary explained how the Colombia initiative had worked. “Colombia’s experience of the register, which identified people who needed government assistance and reparation, led to a division within the guerrillas. The majority signed a peace deal with then President Juan Manuel Santos in 2016,” he said. Santos won the Nobel Peace Prize the same year for effectively ending the 52-year-old communist insurgency that had claimed more than 200,000 lives. The Maoist insurgency in Chhattisgarh dates back to the 1980s. However, many tribal people see the genesis of the conflict in the 1966 murder of erstwhile ruler Pravir Chandra Bhanj Deo, who had led a movement against the fraudulent transfer of land from tribals to non-tribals. The South Asia Terrorism Portal lists 3,003 fatalities in the state from 2005 to 2019. Choudhary conservatively estimates the number of the displaced at more than 50,000 -- over two per cent of the population of the Bastar Division. Undivided Andhra Pradesh had attempted talks with the Maoists between 2001 and 2005, as did the Centre in 2009. These failed over the key condition that the Maoists must abjure violence. Hopes for talks have been low since the chief of the People’s Liberation Guerrilla Army, M. Koteswara Rao alias Kishenji, was killed by the police in Bengal in 2011. After being elected in 2018, Chhattisgarh chief minister Bhupesh Baghel had said that “talks, not bullets” would end the insurgency. Sahoo said he was not at liberty to discuss the state’s attempts at bringing about a cessation of hostilities with the Maoists.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-404
19-01-2021||India||Abhaya murder convict goes to Kerala High Court||A Catholic priest convicted in the Sister Abhaya murder case moved Kerala High Court on Monday, challenging the verdict by the Special CBI court, Thiruvananthapuram, awarding him double life sentence. Father Thomas Kottoor, currently in jail, alleged that the order of the conviction and sentence passed by the Special CBI Court was “absolutely improper and incorrect”. He submitted that it was “opposed to law and contrary to the facts, circumstances and evidence and hence it is unsustainable”. The priest alleged that the trial and conviction by the court in “all respects are vitiated by very grave illegalities and irregularities, like recording the evidence of witnesses, examination of the accused and permitting the prosecution to produce fresh documents and evidence even at the time of final arguments”. In its December 23 judgment, the CBI special court had awarded double life sentence to Father Kottoor and imposed a fine of Rs 6.5 lakh. The other accused, Sister Sephy, was sentenced to life imprisonment and a fine of Rs 5.5 lakh was slapped on her. The court had found them guilty of the murder of Sister Abhaya in 1992.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-404
19-01-2021||India|| ‘60% proof’ against slain three with Kashmir police||The police have “60 per cent” evidence that the three youths killed in an alleged gunfight in Srinagar last month were militants, Valley police chief Vijay Kumar said on Monday, adding that their bodies would not be handed over to their families. The December 30 killing of the three youths, including 17-year-old Class XI student Athar Mushtaq, has inflamed tensions across the Valley, with their families denying the boys had militant links. The families and senior politicians have sought the return of their bodies. The army and the police have been saying they have evidence that the three were militants. But Kumar’s latest claim about “60 per cent” evidence suggests the forces are still struggling to prove the charge. The authorities have stopped returning the bodies of militants to their families to try and avert emotionally charged funerals, which they believe provide recruits to the militants. The families of the three slain youths, who say they were killed in a staged gunfight, have been demanding the bodies so they can hold proper funerals and bury them in local graveyards. Athar’s father Mushtaq Ahmad has dug an empty grave in his village graveyard and said he would continue to fight for his body all his life. “There is no question of returning (their bodies). Their 60 per cent involvement is proven,” Kumar told reporters in Srinagar. “We are deliberately not sharing the details because it’s a very sensitive issue. The data collected by us so far shows all the three had an involvement (with militancy). We want 10 more days. We will get all the evidence, show it to their parents and convince them about their sons’ involvement.” Kumar said the reason the bodies would not be returned is that militants’ funerals attract thousands. He said that following an ordinary citizen’s natural death, their acquaintances follow the Covid protocol. But if a militant or an associate dies, “people become emotional and come out and stopping them becomes difficult”, he said. “If we use bullets, tear gas or pellets, you will criticise.” Former chief minister Mehbooba Mufti recently claimed that one reason she fell out with former ruling ally BJP was her opposition to the Centre’s demand that militants’ bodies not be returned to their families. Mehbooba and other senior politicians have spoken to lieutenant governor Manoj Sinha and sought a probe into the Srinagar killings and the return of the bodies. The bodies of three men killed in Shopian in July were returned to their families in Rajouri after the forces concluded they were innocents slain in a fake encounter. A chargesheet has been filed accusing Captain Bhoopender Singh of 62 Rashtriya Rifles of staging the gunfight to bag the Rs 20-lakh reward.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-404
19-01-2021||India||‘Edited tape’ scan on Congress leader accuser ||Kerala High Court on Monday asked a magistrate’s court to consider a lawyer-activist’s petition to act against a bar owner accused of using an edited audiotape to implicate senior Opposition leaders in a bribery case. It said the judicial magistrate’s court, which had rejected the petitioner’s original plea to act against Biju Ramesh citing jurisdiction, did have the jurisdiction to dispose of the petition. The high court order does not comment on the merit of the allegation of furnishing doctored evidence against Ramesh. Sources close to leader of the Opposition Ramesh Chennithala, whom Ramesh has been implicating publicly, claimed vindication. Ramesh has alleged that several ministers from the state’s previous Congress-led UDF government, headed by Oommen Chandy, as well as then state Congress president Chennithala had taken bribes from bar owners promising to revoke a ban on standalone private bars. (The ban was revoked only after the Left came to power in 2016.) Chandy’s government had in 2014 cancelled the licences of standalone private bars, allowing liquor sales only at star hotels or state-owned outlets. The same year, CPM veteran and then leader of the Opposition V.S. Achuthanandan accused then finance minister K.M. Mani — leader of the Kerala Congress (Mani) — and Congress ministers K. Babu and V.S. Shivakumar of accepting bribes with the promise to revoke the ban. This prompted state police’s vigilance and anti-corruption bureau to file a case in a vigilance court, presided over by a district judge, in 2014. The following year, Ramesh approached the judicial magistrate’s court and furnished an audio CD that purportedly contained discussions about the alleged bribes at a meeting of bar owners. He later explained he had not placed the material before the vigilance court because he didn’t want it to fall into the hands of the vigilance bureau, which he did not trust. However, the Forensic Science Laboratory in Thiruvananthapuram said the audio had been edited, which means it was inadmissible as evidence. After the Left came to power, the CD was sent to the National Forensic Science Laboratory in Ahmedabad, which too said the audio had been edited. The case then stagnated. Last November, Ramesh brought the controversy back to life by repeating his charges at a series of media interactions. He had earlier accused only the former ministers but this time implicated Chennithala as well. Lawyer-activist Sreejith Premachandran then petitioned the magistrate’s court to act against Ramesh. When the court rejected his plea saying the petition should be filed before the vigilance court, he approached the high court. The exact contents of the 80-minute CD have never been made public. K.R. Subash Chandran, a Kerala-based lawyer who is not connected with the case, said the high court order means the allegation against Ramesh will be handled by the magistrate’s court. “The main bar bribery case will continue with the vigilance court,” he said. Ramesh claims to have recorded the entire proceedings of a core committee meeting of the Kerala Bar Hotel Association on December 31, 2014, using his mobile phone. After the high court order, an unfazed Ramesh told a news conference he was ready to face any inquiry and denied having edited the tapes. “The vigilance (and anti-corruption bureau) can proceed with the case since the names of all those involved are clearly audible in the recording,” he said. “I had given the device (mobile phone) and the recording to the magistrate since I suspected that vigilance would destroy the evidence.” Chennithala was busy at a meeting in Delhi. A source close to him said the high court order had vindicated what the UDF leaders had all along maintained.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-404
19-01-2021||India||Two deaths probed, not linked to vaccine: Govt||Health authorities have investigated two deaths among over 381,000 people who have received Covid-19 vaccines over the past three days, but the health ministry said there have been no serious or severe adverse effects attributable to the vaccines. The health ministry said on Monday it had recorded a total of 580 adverse events following immunisation (AEFIs), including seven hospitalisations, and two deaths, one in Moradabad (Uttar Pradesh), the other in Bellary (Karnataka). A 52-year old hospital worker in Moradabad died on Sunday evening after receiving the vaccine on Saturday. The health ministry said a post-mortem examination by a panel of three doctors had “revealed death due to cardiopulmonary disease (pockets of pus in lungs, enlarged heart) — not related to the vaccination.” In the other case, a 43-year old man in Bellary died on Monday after receiving the vaccine on Saturday. “The cause of death was anterior wall infarct with cardiopulmonary failure,” the ministry said, adding that a post-mortem was being done on Monday at a Bellary hospital. Medical experts say unprecedented surveillance for AEFIs is likely to detect adverse events, particularly in a mass immunisation campaign for adults in which some individuals who have underlying, undiagnosed health disorders may also receive the vaccinations. The health ministry did not specify which of the two vaccines used in the immunisation campaign — Covishield, the AstraZeneca-Oxford vaccine made in India by the Serum Institute of India, and Covaxin, the homegrown vaccine from Bharat Biotech — had been received by the two persons who died. The Karnataka health department said none of the other healthcare workers who took the vaccine from the same vial had any adverse events. “The conclusion is that the death was due to cardiorespiratory arrest” resulting from a heart attack, the department said. A set of instructions circulated by the health ministry to all states last week had said a history of chronic diseases or underlying disorders such as cardiac, neurological, pulmonary, renal or malignancies are “not contraindications” for Covid-19 vaccines — in other words, people with such health disorders can receive the vaccines. In Moradabad, Vishal Singh, the son of the deceased said his father had no history of heart or pulmonary disorder. “My father had reached hospital by motorcycle on Saturday. He called me in the afternoon and said he was unable to move on his own. I rushed to the hospital and brought him home in an autorickshaw. His condition aggravated in the night as he became breathless and complained of chest pain. He also had fever.” “We somehow took him to the district hospital on Sunday late afternoon but there was no doctor willing to attend to him. We used a stretcher and took him to the emergency room. There also, nobody started his treatment for about two hours,” Vishal said. Rajendra Kumar, medical superintendent at the hospital said: “Mahipal was administered the corona vaccine. He complained of chest pain and breathlessness thereafter. A physician had attended to him at that time. A doctor checked him soon after he was brought to the hospital the next day but he had already died of a heart attack.” The district’s chief medical officer M.C. Garg met the family members on Monday and told them he was inquiring into the case. “His post-mortem report confirmed that he died of a heart attack. His death had nothing to do with the vaccine,” Garg said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-404
19-01-2021||India||Delay in JNU VC selection ||The tenure of JNU vice-chancellor M. Jagadesh Kumar, whose style of functioning has repeatedly set up clashes with teachers and students, ends on January 26 but the process of appointing his successor is set to be delayed. University officials said it now seemed likely that Kumar would continue in his post a while longer till a new vice-chancellor was appointed. The President, who is the Visitor of the university, had appointed a three-member search panel for a new vice-chancellor but it has not met even once. Kumar is seen as ideologically close to the ruling dispensation. The appointments of the heads of many central educational institutions have been in limbo in recent years, with officials suggesting the delays resulted from the government’s failure to find ideologically pliant candidates. The search panel is learnt to have shortlisted about 15 candidates and called them for an interaction on January 7. But the meeting was postponed without any reason being cited, JNU officials said. Yogendra Narain, former defence secretary and Uttar Pradesh-cadre officer, heads the panel in keeping with a recent trend of bureaucrats being appointed heads of search panels. “The appointment of a regular vice-chancellor does not look possible by January 26. Most likely, the current vice-chancellor will hold office till a successor is appointed,” a JNU official said. The JNU teachers’ association had earlier repeatedly urged the Centre and the President to remove Kumar. “Given the damage he has done to the university, he should have been removed earlier. In any case, the new VC should be appointed at the earliest for smooth functioning of the institution,” Surajit Mazumdar, a JNU professor, said. During Kumar’s tenure, JNU has witnessed alleged violations of the laid-down recruitment process for teachers, abolition of the deprivation points that were awarded to students from backward districts during admission, and showcause notices and inquiries against teachers who opposed his way of functioning.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-404
19-01-2021||India||Mystery of missing Covaxin doses||Eleven of the 12 states earmarked to receive the home-grown Covid-19 vaccine Covaxin have got 20,000 doses or less each, although the Centre ordered 55 lakh doses and expected the entire consignment to be delivered before January 16. Health officials in Andhra Pradesh, Assam, Bihar, Haryana, Karnataka, Maharashtra, Odisha, Rajasthan, Tamil Nadu and Uttar Pradesh have told The Telegraph that each state had received 20,000 doses of Covaxin and larger supplies of the AstraZeneca-Oxford vaccine, called Covishield. Telangana received 16,000 Covaxin doses and around 3.44 lakh Covishield doses, a state official said. The volume of Covaxin doses received by Delhi could not be ascertained immediately. If the 12 states received an average of 20,000 doses of Covaxin each, the total would come to 2.4 lakh – just 4.4 per cent of the 55 lakh doses ordered. The Union health ministry had said last week it had ordered 1.1 crore doses of Covishield, produced in India by the Pune-based Serum Institute of India, and 55 lakh doses of Covaxin, developed by Bharat Biotech, Hyderabad. A top health official had said that “100 per cent doses (are) to be received by 14th January”. The health official had added that the vaccine orders would be staggered, implying that more orders for, and supplies of, both vaccines would emerge in the coming weeks as the campaign to immunise around 1 crore healthcare workers and 2 crore frontline workers progresses. But the relatively small numbers of Covaxin doses supplied to each state, in contrast to Covishield doses, remains unexplained and, as one state official said, “surprising” because Bharat Biotech had earlier this month indicated it had 1 crore doses ready to go. On January 4, a day after India’s drug regulatory authority had approved the restricted emergency use of Covishield and Covaxin, Krishna Ella, a scientist turned entrepreneur and head of Bharat Biotech, had said that 1 crore Covaxin doses were “readily available”. Multiple queries sent by this newspaper to Bharat Biotech and to the health ministry asking about the uniform 20,000-dose supplies to the states have remained unanswered. Two state officials who requested not to be named said the sizes of the supplies were determined by the Centre. “One possible explanation is that the company isn’t prepared to ship out all 55 lakh doses,” said a medical expert who is advising a state government. "Another possible explanation is that the government has for some reason initially released only the limited 20,000 doses to each state," the expert said. “But if the company indeed has 1 crore doses, why aren’t we seeing much more supplies of Covaxin?” If both Serum Institute and Bharat Biotech had delivered 100 per cent of the initial orders of 1.1 crore and 55 lakh doses, the campaign rollout would have seen a 2:1 ratio of Covishield and Covaxin. But the actual ratios are much higher, given the much larger supplies of Covishield. The 12 states have received 2 lakh to 10 lakh doses of Covishield each. Maharashtra, for instance, has received 9.6 lakh Covishield doses, Uttar Pradesh has received 10.55 lakh, Karnataka over 7 lakh and Bihar 5.5 lakh. While health officials have asserted that both vaccines are safe and generate strong immune responses against the novel coronavirus, many medical experts and doctors have expressed concern that the efficacy of Covaxin is yet to be proven. Some experts have speculated that India’s accelerated approval to Covaxin without efficacy data reflects a political desire to launch a home-grown vaccine alongside the AstraZeneca-Oxford vaccine.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-404
