20-01-2021||India||Farmers' protest: Farmers refuse to attend meetings of court-appointed committee||Protesting farmer unions on Wednesday told the Supreme Court that they would not participate in meetings and deliberations to be held by the court-appointed committee to address their grievances and maintained they wanted the new farm laws repealed. The top court told the lawyers appearing for farmers unions that all it wanted is a resolution of the impasse and peace, while the clarifying committee has not been given adjudicatory powers and it will only submit its report to it. A bench of Chief Justice S A Bobde and Justices A S Bopanna and V Ramasubramanian was informed by senior advocate Dushyant Dave and advocate Prashant Bhushan, appearing for the farmer unions, who have been made a party in the case that they had a firm belief that farm laws are against their interest. Bhushan said, “We have instructions from our clients to tell that they have taken a stand that they will not participate in the meetings and deliberations to be held by the committee.” During the hearing conducted through video conferencing on a plea of Kisan Mahapanchayat' a farmers body from Rajasthan, the bench said, “You don't want to appear before the committee is understandable, but casting aspersions on someone because he expressed his view is not done. You don't need to brand anybody like this.” It expressed strong displeasure over the aspersions cast by some farmers' unions on members of the committee. The bench told Bhushan to see what solution can be found and all it wants is a resolution of the impasse and peace and just saying that they will not appear before the committee, will not help and he has to counsel his clients to bring peace. It observed, “In a democracy other than repeal, the court can set aside law and court is seized of this. The law is not in force at the moment but suppose if we uphold the Farm laws then you can start the agitation. But the only rider is to ensure that the people of Delhi are in peace.” Bhushan replied that he has advised his clients (protesting farmers unions) that there should be peace and said that farmers only want to celebrate Republic Day on the outer ring road of Delhi and there will be no attempt to destroy peace. He said that farmers unions have stated that they don't want any amendments in the new farm laws and they just want it to be repealed as there were no discussions in Rajya Sabha on the bills. Bhushan added that protesting farmers are just trying to put democratic pressure on the government and they fear that if they get up and go away since laws are not in force then later if courts come to the conclusion that laws are constitutional and interim orders are withdrawn then what would happen. That's why they are apprehensive, he said. The bench said that farmers have democratic rights to protest but the only rider is that people of Delhi should be in peace and as a court, it is only expressing its anxiety. Attorney General K K Venugopal, appearing for Centre said that if 5,000 tractors are allowed into the city, then they will be all over the streets. The bench said that these issues are in executive domain and the authorities can meet Bhushan's clients and record their statement that there shall be complete peace. The bench also pulled up Dave for not appearing for the farmers' unions on January 12, when it had stayed the implementation of the contentious new farm laws till further orders and constituted the four-member committee to make recommendations to resolve the impasse over them between the Centre and farmers' unions protesting at Delhi borders. "Dave, you had disappeared that day when the committee was formed. You yourself had said in the previous hearing to not pass orders and we will take instruction and appear the next day. You were expected to appear before the court on that day. This is not proper and do not aggravate the situation," the bench said. It added that if Dave wanted to appear he could have appeared before the court and said, This is something new that when the order is being dictated, the party is not there. Normally you are happy to appear in the matter but that day you chose not to. Dave said that on January 12, the matter was kept for orders and the court had not given him any time to seek directions. We did not appear because we were under the bonafide impression that the matter was kept for orders and not for hearing. I didn't even get a link to the video conferencing, he said. The bench told Dave that normally he is happy to appear but on the day of the order he was unhappy and chose not to appear before the court. Thousands of farmers, mainly from Punjab, Haryana and western Uttar Pradesh, are protesting at various border points of Delhi for over a month now against the three laws -- the Farmers' Produce Trade and Commerce (Promotion and Facilitation) Act, the Essential Commodities (Amendment) Act, and the Farmers (Empowerment and Protection) Agreement on Price Assurance and Farm Services Act.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-399
20-01-2021||India||Govt offers to freeze farm laws for 18 months||The government on Wednesday proposed to suspend the three contentious farm laws for one-and-a-half years and set up a joint committee to discuss the Acts to end the stalemate, but farmer leaders did not immediately accept the proposal and said they will revert after their internal consultations.
The next meeting has been scheduled for Friday, January 22, a day after the farmer unions hold their internal discussions (on Thursday), farmer leaders said after the 10th round of talks ended at Vigyan Bhawan here after nearly five hours of discussions, including two breaks. Briefing media after a nearly five-hour-long meeting that included two breaks, Union Agriculture Minister Narendra Singh Tomar said the government has proposed to suspend implementation of the three laws for 1-1.5 years, during which period a joint committee of representatives from the government and farmers' sides can continue their talks and those protesting on Delhi borders in extremely cold weather return to their homes.
"The government proposed to suspend the farm laws for one-and-a-half years. We rejected the proposal but since it has come from the government, we will meet tomorrow and deliberate over it," Bharatiya Kisan Union (Ugrahan) president Joginder Singh Ugrahan said.
Another farmer leader Kavitha Kuruganti said the government also proposed to submit an affidavit in Supreme Court for suspending the three farm laws for a mutually-agreed period and set up a committee.
The leaders said unions are firm on their demand for a complete repeal of the laws, but they will still discuss the government's proposal and give their final decision during the next meeting.
During the meeting, the government also offered to amend the three laws but farmer leaders stuck to their demand and alleged that the Centre was avoiding discussion on a legal guarantee for MSP.
Farmer leaders said there was no breakthrough in the first two sessions as both sides were stuck on their stated positions vis-a-vis the three farm laws and there was little hope of any outcome other than fixing the date for the 11th round.
Farmer leaders said there was no breakthrough in the first two sessions as both sides were stuck on their stated positions vis-a-vis the three farm laws and it was clear from the very beginning that there was little hope of any outcome other than fixing the date for the 11th round. Tomar, however, said the government was keen to reach a final decision in today's meeting on the auspicious day of Gurupurab and therefore it started with greetings for the occasion. "The government was ready to discuss provisions of the laws with an open mind and a big heart," he said. The minister said the talks were held in a cordial atmosphere despite some 'naram-garam' moments (softening and hardening of the stand) and farmers remained adamant on their demand for the repeal of the laws. He, however, asserted that some headway was made towards reaching a solution in the next meeting to end the agitation. "It will be victory for Indian democracy the day farmers' agitation ends and they return to their homes," he said in reply to a question whether it would be a victory for the farmers or the government. Asked whether the January 22 meeting at 12 pm could be the last one, Tomar said he is hopeful of reaching an amicable solution in the next round of talks. The minister said the new proposal has been made to allay farmers' apprehensions and instill confidence that the government is ready for discussion with an open heart. "The Supreme Court has stayed the agri-reform laws for a short duration. Their implementation will not happen for some time. But, we have been telling the unions that it will require more time to consider the laws and to discuss other aspects related to the agitation. The required time maybe six months, one year or one and half years," he said. "Therefore, we told the unions that the government is ready to put on hold the implementation of the laws for 1-1.5 years. I am happy that the farmer unions took this proposal seriously on the birth anniversary of Guru Gobind Singh," he said. Asked whether the proposed committee will continue alongside the SC-appointed expert panel, Tomar said, "The government is committed to the Supreme Court and will remain so. The committee appointed by the apex court is doing its job, but the government also has direct accountability towards farmers and the situation arising out of the protest. Therefore, we are taking forward this discussion while discharging our responsibility."
The modalities of the proposed panel, including the number of members, can be finalised after the two sides reach an in-principle agreement on this proposal, the minister said. Sources said the government proposed to keep the three farm laws suspended and form a committee comprising of farmer union leaders and government representatives. The ministers proposed that the laws would remain suspended till the committee gives its report and urged farmer unions to suspend their agitation too till that time, sources added.
The laws have already been stayed till further orders by the Supreme Court, which has formed a committee to resolve the deadlock. The committee, which had its first meeting on Tuesday and will begin its consultations with various stakeholders on Thursday, has been asked to give its report in two months.
Farmer leaders also raised the issue of NIA notices being served to some farmers, alleging it was being done just to harass those supporting the agitation, to which the government representatives said they will look into the matter.
The two sides took a break after around one hour of discussions when farmer leaders had langar food.
The meeting began at around 2.45 pm with the three ministers greeting farmer leaders on the occasion of Gurupurab. The meeting resumed at around 5.15 pm after a lunch break, but the two sides took another break at around 6pm during which the farmer leaders discussed the government proposal for suspending the laws for a fixed period of time.
Kuruganti said the meeting began with the NIA issue, followed by unions' demand for a repeal of the laws.
The farmer leaders presented multiple Parliament replies given by the agriculture minister where he had stated that agriculture was a state subject, while one reply mentioned even agri-marketing as a state subject.
She said the discussion did not appear progressing anywhere. "The government offered to carry out some amendments, but farmer leaders maintained they do not want anything less than a complete repeal of the laws," Tikait said.
Tomar, Railways, Commerce and Food Minister Piyush Goyal and Minister of State for Commerce Som Parkash, who is an MP from Punjab, represented the government during the talk with representatives of around 40 farmer unions.
Before the meeting, the three ministers also met senior BJP leader and Union Home Minister Amit Shah.
The tenth round of talks was initially scheduled on January 19, but later got postponed to Wednesday. In the last round of talks, the government had asked protesting farmers to prepare a concrete proposal about their objections and suggestions on the three farm laws for further discussion at their next meeting to end the long-running protest. But unions stuck to their main demand of a complete repeal of the three Acts.
Thousands of farmers, mainly from Punjab, Haryana and western Uttar Pradesh, are protesting at various border points of Delhi for over a month now against the three laws. Farmer groups have alleged these laws will end the mandi and MSP procurement systems and leave the farmers at the mercy of big corporates, even as the government has rejected these apprehensions as misplaced.
Earlier in the day, a group of farm union leaders met top officials of Delhi, Haryana and Uttar Pradesh police to discuss the route and arrangements for their tractor rally on January 26 to protest against the three farm laws.
But the unions rejected a suggestion by police officers to hold their rally on the Kundli-Manesar-Palwal Expressway instead of Delhi's Outer Ring Road, sources said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-399
20-01-2021||India||Govt ready to amend farm laws, but farmers insist on repeal    ||The government on Wednesday offered to amend the three contentious farm laws at their 10th round of talks with protesting unions but farmer leaders stuck to their demand for a complete repeal of the Acts and alleged that the Centre was avoiding discussion on a legal guarantee for MSP. Farmer leaders said there was no breakthrough in the first session as both sides were stuck on their stated positions vis-a-vis the three farm laws and there was little hope of any outcome other than fixing the date for the 11th round. Farmer leaders also raised the issue of NIA notices being served to some farmers, alleging it was being done just to harass those supporting the agitation, to which the government representatives said they will look into the matter. As the two sides took a break, where farmer leaders had langar food, Bhartiya Kisan Union (BKU) general secretary Yudhvir Singh told PTI, "The stalemate is continuing over the three laws and I don't think any solution will emerge from today's meeting. Both sides are adamant on their position." He said the government is insisting on first discussing the three laws and wants to take up the MSP (Minimum Support Price) matter later. "We will insist on a discussion on MSP after the tea break and also try to seek the next date for meeting before January 26," Singh said. Another farmer leader Rakesh Tikait said, "The government is not ready to repeal the three laws and farmers are not ready for amendments. The government doesn't want to discuss MSP." "No solution will emerge from today's meeting. We will meet again on the next date," he said. Tikait also said the union leaders raised the NIA (National Investigation Agency) issue in the meeting, to which the ministers said they will look into it. The meeting began at around 2.45 pm with the three ministers greeting farmer leaders on the occasion of Gurupurab. "The government offered to carry out some amendments, but farmer leaders maintained they do not want anything less than a complete repeal of the laws," Tikait said. Union Agriculture Minister Narendra Singh Tomar, Railways, Commerce and Food Minister Piyush Goyal and Minister of State for Commerce Som Parkash, who is an MP from Punjab, are holding the talks with the representatives of around 40 farmer unions at the Vigyan Bhawan here. Before the meeting, the three ministers also met senior BJP leader and Union Home Minister Amit Shah. The tenth round of talks was initially scheduled on January 19, but later got postponed to Wednesday. In the last round of talks, the government had asked protesting farmers to prepare a concrete proposal about their objections and suggestions on the three farm laws for further discussion at their next meeting to end the long-running protest. But, unions stuck to their main demand of a complete repeal of the three Acts. Thousands of farmers, mainly from Punjab, Haryana and western Uttar Pradesh, are protesting at various border points of Delhi for over a month now against the three laws. Farmer groups have alleged these laws will end the mandi and MSP procurement systems and leave the farmers at the mercy of big corporates, even as the government has rejected these apprehensions as misplaced. On January 11, the Supreme Court had stayed the implementation of the three laws till further orders and appointed a four-member panel to resolve the impasse. Bhartiya Kisan Union president Bhupinder Singh Mann had recused himself from the committee appointed by the apex court. Shetkari Sanghatana (Maharashtra) president Anil Ghanwat and agriculture economists Pramod Kumar Joshi and Ashok Gulati are the other three members on the panel. On Tuesday, the SC panel held its first meeting in the national capital. Under attack from protesting unions for their "pro-government" public stand on three contentious farm laws, the members of the committee said that they would keep aside their own ideology and views while consulting various stakeholders, even as they indicated a complete repeal won't augur well for much-needed agriculture reforms. Earlier in the day, a group of farm union leaders met top officials of Delhi, Haryana and Uttar Pradesh police to discuss the route and arrangements for their tractor rally on January 26 to protest against the three farm laws. But the unions rejected a suggestion by police officers to hold their rally on the Kundli-Manesar-Palwal Expressway instead of Delhi's Outer Ring Road, sources said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-399
20-01-2021||India||Farmers raise NIA summons at 10th round of talks ||The government on Wednesday offered to amend the three contentious farm laws at their 10th round of talks with protesting unions but farmer leaders stuck to their demand for a complete repeal of the Acts and also raised the issue of NIA notices being served to farmers. As the two sides took a break, where farmer leaders had langar food, unions also alleged that the government was avoiding any discussion on their other key demand for a legal guarantee for Minimum Support Price (MSP) procurement. The meeting began with the three ministers greeting farmer leaders on the occasion of Gurupurab. During the break, farmer leader Rakesh Tikait said there was no breakthrough during the first session and union leaders raised the issue of some farmers being harassed with NIA (National Investigation Agency) notices. The ministers apparently told the unions they will look into the matter. "The government offered to carry out some amendments, but farmer leaders maintained they do not want anything less than a complete repeal of the laws," Tikait said. He also said the government appeared to be avoiding any discussion on the issue of MSP. Union Agriculture Minister Narendra Singh Tomar, Railways, Commerce and Food Minister Piyush Goyal and Minister of State for Commerce Som Parkash, who is an MP from Punjab, are holding the talks with the representatives of around 40 farmer unions at the Vigyan Bhawan here. Before the meeting, the three ministers also met senior BJP leader and Union Home Minister Amit Shah. The tenth round of talks was initially scheduled on January 19, but later got postponed to Wednesday. In the last round of talks, the government had asked protesting farmers to prepare a concrete proposal about their objections and suggestions on the three farm laws for further discussion at their next meeting to end the long-running protest. But, unions stuck to their main demand of a complete repeal of the three Acts. Thousands of farmers, mainly from Punjab, Haryana and western Uttar Pradesh, are protesting at various border points of Delhi for over a month now against the three laws. Farmer groups have alleged these laws will end the mandi and MSP procurement systems and leave the farmers at the mercy of big corporates, even as the government has rejected these apprehensions as misplaced. On January 11, the Supreme Court had stayed the implementation of the three laws till further orders and appointed a four-member panel to resolve the impasse. Bhartiya Kisan Union president Bhupinder Singh Mann had recused himself from the committee appointed by the apex court. Shetkari Sanghatana (Maharashtra) president Anil Ghanwat and agriculture economists Pramod Kumar Joshi and Ashok Gulati are the other three members on the panel. On Tuesday, the SC panel held its first meeting in the national capital. Under attack from protesting unions for their "pro-government" public stand on three contentious farm laws, the members of the committee said that they would keep aside their own ideology and views while consulting various stakeholders, even as they indicated a complete repeal won't augur well for much-needed agriculture reforms. Earlier in the day, a group of farm union leaders met top officials of Delhi, Haryana and Uttar Pradesh police to discuss the route and arrangements for their tractor rally on January 26 to protest against the three farm laws. But the unions rejected a suggestion by police officers to hold their rally on the Kundli-Manesar-Palwal Expressway instead of Delhi's Outer Ring Road, sources said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-399
20-01-2021||India||Alternate route not an option for farmers for R-day march||Protesting farmers’ unions on Wednesday rejected a suggestion by police officers to hold their proposed January 26 tractor rally on the Kundli-Manesar-Palwal Expressway instead of Delhi’s busy Outer Ring Road, sources said. Union leaders and officers of the Delhi, Uttar Pradesh and Haryana police forces had met at the Vigyan Bhawan here to discuss the route and arrangements of the proposed rally on Republic Day. The sources said that the farmer leaders were suggested by the police officers to take out their rally on the Kundli Manesar Palwal (KMP) Expressway, but they did not agree. The Outer Ring Road passes through several areas of Delhi such as Vikaspuri, Janakpuri, Uttam Nagar, Burari, Peeragarhi and Pitampura. “There might be another round of talks with the police officers on Thursday,” a farmer leader, who attended the meeting, said. Thousands of farmers, mostly from Punjab and Haryana, have been protesting at several Delhi border points against the laws for the last 56 days and unions representing them have begun holding tractor rallies at villages in Punjab to mobilise people for the demonstration on Republic Day. During the meeting, “we discussed several points with police officers on our tractor rally on January 26”, a senior farmer leader said. Joint Commissioner of Police, (Northern Range), S.S. Yadav coordinated the meeting from the Delhi Police, according to the sources. Police officials from Haryana and Uttar Pradesh were also present at the meeting, they said. The meeting comes on a day the Centre withdrew its plea seeking an injunction against the proposed tractor rally on January 26 after the Supreme Court said "it is a police matter". The police have the ‘authority’ to deal with the issue pertaining to the proposed tractor march in Delhi on Republic Day, said a bench comprising Chief Justice S A Bobde and Justices A S Bopanna and V Ramasubramanian. Leaders of all 40 farm unions, which are taking part in the protest, also met three Union ministers for the 10th round of talks this afternoon in an effort to end the impasse over the agri laws. Farmer unions agitating against the laws have said their preparations are in full gear and authorities should facilitate the "peaceful march", instead of stopping it. The protests and the proposed tractor rally are against the Farmers (Empowerment and Protection) Agreement of Price Assurance and Farm Services Act, 2020; the Farmers Produce Trade and Commerce (Promotion and Facilitation) Act, 2020; and the Essential Commodities (Amendment) Act 2020.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-399
20-01-2021||India||10th round of Centre-farmers talks underway||In a bid to solve an over-a-month-long impasse over three contentious agri laws, protesting farmers and three central ministers commenced their tenth round of talks at the Vigyan Bhawan in New Delhi on Wednesday. Union Agriculture Minister Narendra Singh Tomar, Railways, Commerce and Food Minister Piyush Goyal and Minister of State for Commerce Som Parkash, who is an MP from Punjab, are holding the talks with the representatives of around 40 farmer unions. The tenth round of talks was initially scheduled on January 19, but later got postponed to Wednesday. In the last round of talks, the government had asked protesting farmers to prepare a concrete proposal about their objections and suggestions on the three farm laws for further discussion at their next meeting to end the long-running protest. But, unions stuck to their main demand of a complete repeal of the three Acts. On January 11, the Supreme Court stayed the implementation of the three laws till further orders and appointed a four-member panel to resolve the impasse. Bhartiya Kisan Union president Bhupinder Singh Mann had recused himself from the committee appointed by the apex court. Shetkari Sanghatana (Maharashtra) president Anil Ghanwat and agriculture economists Pramod Kumar Joshi and Ashok Gulati are the other three members on the panel. On Tuesday, the SC panel held its first meeting in the national capital. Under attack from protesting unions for their “pro-government” public stand on three contentious farm laws, the members of the committee said that they would keep aside their own ideology and views while consulting various stakeholders, even as they indicated a complete repeal won't augur well for much-needed agriculture reforms. Ghanwat, said the panel will hold its first round of talks with farmers and other stakeholders on January 21. “The biggest challenge for the panel is to convince agitating farmers to come and speak with us. We will try our best,” he said. Ghanwat further said the committee will seek views of farmers and all other stakeholders on the new farm laws, besides the central and state governments. “Panel members will keep their personal views on farm laws aside while preparing a report to be submitted to the Supreme Court,” he said. Earlier in the day, a group of farm union leaders met top officials of Delhi, Haryana and Uttar Pradesh police to discuss the route and arrangements for their tractor rally on January 26 to protest against the three farm laws. “A group of farm union leaders including Balbir Singh Rajewal and others will meet top officials of Delhi Police to discuss the route and other arrangements for their protest march on Republic Day against the three farm laws,” Jamuri Kisan Union leader, Kalwant Singh Sandhu, told PTI. The Joint Commissioner of Police (Northern Range) SS Yadav will coordinate the meeting from Delhi Police, according to sources. Police officials from Haryana and Uttar Pradesh will also be present at the meeting, sources said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-399
20-01-2021||India||Centre withdraws plea in SC against farmers' tractor rally||The Centre Wednesday withdrew its plea seeking an injunction against the proposed tractor rally on January 26 by farmers protesting against the new farms laws after the Supreme Court said "it is a police matter". The police has the "authority" to deal with the issue pertaining to the proposed tractor march in Delhi on the Republic Day, said a bench comprising Chief Justice S A Bobde and Justices A S Bopanna and V Ramasubramanian. "We have told you that we will not issue any direction. It is a police matter. We will allow you to withdraw. You are the authority and you have to deal with it. You have the powers to pass orders, you do it. It is not for the court to pass orders..," the bench said in the hearing conducted via video conferencing. After the observation of the apex court, the Centre withdrew the plea filed through Delhi Police seeking an injunction against the proposed tractor or trolley march or any other kind of protest which seeks to disrupt the gathering and celebrations of the Republic Day. The hearing in the matter is still continuing.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-400
20-01-2021||India||Farm leaders to meet Delhi police officials regarding tractor rally||A group of farm union leaders will meet top officials of Delhi, Haryana and Uttar Pradesh police on Wednesday to discuss the route and arrangements for their tractor rally on January 26 to protest against the three farm laws, a union leader said. Farmers have been protesting against the three farm laws for the last 56 days on the borders of the national capital. Leaders of all 40 farm unions, which are taking part in the protest, will meet three cabinet ministers for the 10th round of talks this afternoon in an effort to end the impasse. "A group of farm union leaders including Balbir Singh Rajewal and others will meet top officials of Delhi Police to discuss the route and other arrangements for their protest march on Republic Day against the three farm laws," Jamuri Kisan Union leader, Kalwant Singh Sandhu, told PTI. The Joint Commissioner of Police (Northern Range) SS Yadav will coordinate the meeting from Delhi Police, according to sources. Police officials from Haryana and Uttar Pradesh will also be present at the meeting, sources said. Farmer unions agitating against the new agri laws have said their preparations are in full gear and authorities should facilitate the "peaceful march", instead of stopping it. After the Delhi Police sought an injunction on the tractor rally, the Supreme Court on Monday said the decision on it has to be taken by the Centre and the police, and the official permission is yet to be worked out. Protesting unions, which plan to hold the rally on the Outer Ring Road in Delhi on January 26, have begun holding tractor rallies at villages in Punjab to mobilise people for the parade and said more farmers will be heading to the national capital in batches later this week.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-400
20-01-2021||India||India's Covid recovery rate stands at 96.7 per cent||With 13,823 infections reported in a day, India's COVID-19 caseload rose to 1,05,95,660, while the recoveries surged to 1,02,45,741, the Union health ministry said on Wednesday. The death toll due to the disease increased to 1,52,718 in the country as 162 new fatalities were recorded, the ministry data updated at 8 am showed. The total number of people who have recuperated from the disease surged to 1,02,45,741, pushing the national COVID-19 recovery rate to 96.70 per cent. The COVID-19 case fatality rate stands at 1.44 per cent, it said. There are 1,97,201 active coronavirus infections in the country, which comprises 1.86 per cent of the total caseload, the data stated. India's COVID-19 tally had crossed the 20 lakh-mark on August 7, 30 lakh on August 23, 40 lakh on September 5 and 50 lakh on September 16. It went past 60 lakh on September 28, 70 lakh on October 11, 80 lakh on October 29, 90 lakh on November 20 and surpassed the one crore-mark on December 19. According to the Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR), 18,85,66,947 samples have been tested till January 19, with 7,64,120 samples being tested on Tuesday. The 162 new fatalities include 50 from Maharashtra, 26 from Kerala, 11 from West Bengal, nine from Karnataka, and 10 each from Delhi and Chhattisgarh. Out of the total 1,52,718 deaths in the country, 50,523 deaths were reported from Maharashtra followed by 12,281 from Tamil Nadu, 12,181 from Karnataka, 10,764 from Delhi, 10,074 from West Bengal, 8,584 from Uttar Pradesh and, 7,142 deaths from Andhra Pradesh. The health ministry stressed that more than 70 per cent of the deaths occurred due to comorbidities. "Our figures are being reconciled with the ICMR," the ministry said on its website, adding that state-wise distribution of figures is subject to further verification and reconciliation.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-400
20-01-2021||India||Delhi's minimum temperature at 7.8 degrees Celsius, air quality improves||Delhi's minimum temperature settled at 7.8 degrees Celsius, a notch above normal, on Wednesday, the India Meteorological Department (IMD) said. A fresh Western Disturbance will start affecting the Western Himalayan region Friday onwards. As a result, the mercury is likely to drop to 4 degrees Celsius by Monday, an IMD official said. The city's air quality improved slightly on Wednesday morning on the back of strong surface winds. The AQI stood at 308 at 9 am. Delhi's air quality had turned severe on Tuesday, the sixth time this month, due to low wind speed and high moisture levels. The city's 24-hour AQI was 404 on Tuesday, 372 on Monday and 347 on Sunday. Before that, Delhi's air quality remained in the severe zone for three consecutive days. An AQI between zero and 50 is considered good, 51 and 100 satisfactory, 101 and 200 moderate, 201 and 300 poor, 301 and 400 very poor, and 401 and 500 severe.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-400
20-01-2021||India||Modi to chair all-party meeting on January 30||Prime Minister Narendra Modi will chair an all-party meeting on January 30 during which the government will put forth its legislative agenda for the Budget session of Parliament, Parliamentary Affairs Minister Pralhad Joshi said on Wednesday. He said the meeting will be held virtually and an invitation has been extended to floor leaders of all parties. An all-party meeting is a customary procedure before the beginning of every session of Parliament to ensure its smooth functioning. However, this time it is being held a day after the session starts on January 29. "The all-party meeting will be held on January 30, where the government will put forth its legislative business for the Parliament session and would also listen to the opposition's suggestions," Joshi told PTI. The Budget session of Parliament is starting from January 29 and will be held in two parts. The first part will conclude on February 15 and the second part will be held from March 8 to April 8. Parliament will sit in two shifts with Rajya Sabha in the morning and Lok Sabha in the evening. Lok Sabha Speaker Om Birla on Tuesday chaired a high-level meeting of top government officials for holding the Budget session amid the pandemic.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-400
20-01-2021||India||Nation wants to know: who leaked info on Pak strike? ||Prime Minister Narendra Modi had echoed in almost “exact words” after the Balakot bombing the sentiment attributed to the government before the strike in a purported chat by Republic TV promoter Arnab Goswami with a rating agency boss, a video clip from the 2019 campaign trail shows. “Bigger than a normal strike…. On Pakistan the government is confident of striking in a way that people will be elated. Exact words used,” the chat attributed to Goswami (and so far not denied by him) on February 23, 2019, says. Three days later, the Balakot bombing was launched. Less than two months later on the campaign trail, Modi told a cheering crowd in Gujarat’s Amreli: “Tamey khush, desh khush (You are happy, the country is happy)….” The use of similar words does not prove anything. Besides, Modi might have merely echoed the mood he had gauged in the country after the Balakot bombing. But the sentiment attributed to the government before the strike and picked up by Modi after it raises inescapable questions. ⚫ On Tuesday, Goswami made light of the chats without questioning their authenticity. The crux of his argument was he had shared only information available in the public domain. Now, imagine that the same chat was found on the phone of a human rights activist or an anti-CAA protester just three days before the Balakot bombing. Imagine the witch-hunt he or she would have had to face, imagine the verbal lynching he or she would have been subjected to in India’s sanctimonious, super-patriotic television studios. Imagine the first law that would have been invoked then, the dreaded UAPA or the all-season favourite that deals with treason? ⚫ Was making the people elated just before the elections the strategic objective of the Balakot strike? If not, why did an unnamed but seemingly well-informed source or sources in the government make it a point to tell that to Goswami? Why did Goswami underscore that “people will be elated” were the “exact words”? Was it because he got the impression that making people elated was the overriding objective of the impending retaliation? On Tuesday night, Goswami tried to defend himself by saying “two things were made public at that time, officially — 1. That there will be an extremely tough military retaliation by India. 2. That the time and place of the retaliation will be chosen by India.” He did not mention the “exact words” that he was so proud to share in the chat: “The government is confident of striking in a way that people will be elated.” ⚫ Cross-border missions always involve high risk. No nation, including Israel and the US, can claim beforehand with certainty that the mission objective would be accomplished. Yet, the government purportedly told Goswami that the people would be elated. Does it mean that the government had only a modest tactical objective from the raid, which it was sure of accomplishing? It is pertinent to recall that one Union minister later said the purpose was not to cause human casualty. ⚫ Few political parties will raise this but the fact remains that it has not been conclusively established till now that “a very large number” of terrorists were killed as the Modi government had said then. In fact, the toll attributed to unnamed Indian “sources” fluctuated wildly from 400 to 350 to over 300 to 250. Later, a military officer said such kills were not counted. The Pakistan government had said only trees were damaged. Reuters, the news agency, reported that during a conducted tour to the Balakot site after a six-week delay, journalists and diplomats didn’t get enough time from the Pakistan Army to make any kind of informed assessment. On the trek up to the compound, the visitors were shown craters that the allegedly wayward missiles had created on the surrounding hillsides. The toll assumes significance because in military operations nothing can be left to chance. If information was available on a messaging service that the Indian government was preparing for “something bigger than a normal strike”, questions must be asked whether that message was forwarded to others and whether it did help Pakistan to take the terrorists to a safer place before the strike. Many Indians have been vilified as Pakistani agents and told to migrate to Pakistan for saying far less in public. Goswami claimed on Tuesday night that he was merely passing on to Partho Dasgupta, the then BARC chief executive, “publicly available information and thousands of journalists reported, wrote, broadcast and analysed in the same direction after Pulwama”. That may be so but Goswami did not name anyone else who quoted the “exact words” of the government in any report. Besides, Goswami has been known to be extremely close to the Modi government. His unsolicited and unqualified assertion about national security affairs — if it reached more ears — would have had graver consequences than a speculative report by a journalist. Again, whether the information reached more people can only be established by a formal probe. ⚫ On Tuesday night, Goswami sought to pass the buck to the Modi government, too. “There are thousands of articles from that time suggesting a hard and tough response from the Indian forces. The government stated the same in interviews to our network and elsewhere, which were broadcast across the world,” he said. In that case, Dasgupta, Goswami’s purported chat-mate and fellow member of the mutual admiration club, does not appear to be an avid follower of Goswami’s network — at least that is what the chats suggest. On February 23 at 10.31pm, when Goswami warmed up to make the big boast, Dasgupta appeared clueless. “On another note something big will happen,” says the chat attributed to Goswami. “Dawood?” asks Dasgupta. The then BARC boss could not have been more off the mark. “No sir Pakistan. Something major will be done this time,” Goswami replies, according to a supplementary chargesheet filed by Mumbai police in an alleged TRP-fixing case. So, in spite of the “thousands of articles”, what Goswami allegedly passed on was indeed news to at least one Indian, that too one who was paid to track television. Which is reason enough to launch a formal probe, especially when Modi likes to project himself as the foremost champion of national security.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-400
20-01-2021||India||Could have waited for efficacy results from Covaxin trials: Doctor||Dr Urmila Thatte, professor and former head of clinical pharmacology at the King Edward Memorial College, Mumbai, is among the 631,471 healthcare workers across India who have received one of two Covid-19 vaccines used in the nationwide campaign until Tuesday evening. Dr Thatte, who has been on an expert advisory panel on drug evaluation for the World Health Organisation and a former secretary of the Forum for Ethics Review Committees in India, on Tuesday took the AstraZeneca-Oxford vaccine, Covishield. But she told The Telegraph that she wishes she and all other beneficiaries had a choice. I wish I had a choice. I wish all who get vaccinated have the option to choose between vaccines. Even in a pandemic, when there is an option to choose, we should get a choice. I received Covishield, but I heard doctors in JJ Hospital (another public hospital in Mumbai) received Covaxin (the second vaccine India is using in the campaign). I wonder whether I might have taken Covaxin — I’ve seen the data, we don’t know whether it has protective efficacy yet, but its immunogenicity is promising. Both vaccines have been released under restricted emergency use, but Covaxin is under a clinical trial mode, requiring informed consent. But those asked to give informed consent have to have a choice. Informed consent has to be voluntary. But when there is no choice, when the choice is between taking the vaccine you’re offered or not receiving a vaccine at all, it is not voluntary. There is an element of coercion there. Vaccine acceptance has to come through conviction. The haste with which Covaxin was approved has not been clearly explained. Some of us wonder — was it a political decision to show a ‘made-in-India’ vaccine? But India already has so much to be proud of on the vaccine front. We’re the world’s largest producer of vaccines. Over the years, we have established the organisation machinery needed to roll out vaccines — we’ve done that very well for measles, for polio, and other childhood infections. I think we could have waited a few more weeks for the efficacy results from the Covaxin trials to emerge. However, when we have two vaccines approved, why not offer a choice to beneficiaries?||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-400
20-01-2021||India||Prime Minister himself might have given the information, says Rahul||Rahul Gandhi on Tuesday asked who had leaked “top secret” information about the Balakot air strike to Republic TV’s Arnab Goswami, underlining that this was a “criminal act” that had put Indian Air Force pilots conducting the raid inside Pakistan at risk. “This was top secret information. This was not provided to anybody else. There were four or five people who knew this,” the Congress leader said at a news conference in New Delhi, listing the Prime Minister, the defence minister, the home minister, the air chief and the national security adviser as those who would know about such an operation. “I want to know whether it was the Prime Minister of India who told Arnab Goswami. Or it was the defence minister or the home minister. Or it was the NSA. I want to know which one of those people told this man,” Rahul said. Three days before the Balakot strike on February 26, 2019, Goswami purportedly said in a WhatsApp message that “something big will happen” and that “on Pakistan the government is confident of striking in a way that people will be elated. Exact words used.” Giving official secret information to a journalist is a criminal act, Rahul said, both on the part of the person who accepted it as well as the person who gave it. “These people call themselves patriots. There is nothing patriotic about putting our air force at risk. There is nothing patriotic about taking political advantage so that our aircraft gets shot down. So that the Pakistanis know that our air force is coming. If Mr Arnab Goswami knows, if it’s on his WhatsApp, I assume the Pakistanis also know it. It’s not a very big jump,” Rahul said. An Indian Air Force fighter had got shot down in the operation. Asked if he was blaming the Prime Minister for the leak, Rahul said: “I am saying only five people could have done that. It is clear-cut. I want to know who among these five did it.” An investigation should be held, he added.  “The question is who should be booked in this case. Both — the person who gave the sensitive information and the journalist who accepted it,” Rahul said. “The process should have started by now. But that won’t happen. Why? Because the Prime Minister himself might have given the information.” The Congress leader also described as “distressing” and “anti-national” Goswami’s purported comment, “This attack we have won like crazy”, less than three hours after the Pulwama attack in which 40 CRPF men were killed. Goswami was purportedly gloating about his channel’s coverage of the tragedy. “To say that we will now win an election as 40 CRPF jawans have been killed is a reflection of the Prime Minister’s mindset,” Rahul said. The Congress will discuss the WhatsApp revelations at a media conference on Wednesday to be held by former defence minister A.K. Antony, former home minister Sushil Kumar Shinde, former external affairs minister Salman Khurshid and leader of the Opposition in the Rajya Sabha, Ghulam Nabi Azad. Rahul also attacked the Prime Minister for lack of strategic thinking on foreign affairs, particularly on China. Responding to a question about the BJP’s criticism of his understanding, he said: “When I warned them about corona and the economic damage that it will cause, they made fun of me. The economy is destroyed. Today, I am saying China is seeing India’s weakness. China has a clear strategic vision. They want to dominate; they want to reshape the world. India doesn’t have strategic vision.” He continued: “China has tested India twice, in Doklam and in Ladakh. If we don’t send out a clear message to China — military, geopolitical and strategic — they will exploit our weakness. I am raising the red flag for the government. If the government thinks it can tackle the problem by event management and tu-tu-main-main (blame game), they are nurturing a misconception. The BJP can say anything about me but their job is to protect India. They are not doing it.” Asked about the Prime Minister’s decision to express concern at rioting on the Capitol Hill in the US but not on the deaths of 70 protesting farmers in India, Rahul said: “I heard him say ‘Iss baar, Trump sarkar’. As the Prime Minister of a country, you don’t do something like that. You are disrespecting the people of the United States, that’s their choice, not yours. This is clearly a lack of understanding of fundamentals.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-400
20-01-2021||India||South Asians wary of vaccine ||My 80-year-old mother received the first dose of her Covid vaccine last week despite advice from her predominantly South Asian friends and peers not to go as the vaccine is “dodgy”. She became one of the three million people in the UK to be vaccinated for the coronavirus till date who are in the priority group of healthcare workers and the elderly over80s. My mother’s friends who advised her against the vaccine were convinced that it contained beef, pork or alcohol and in some cases all three — haram for Hindus, Muslims and Sikhs — and therefore it compromised their religious beliefs. The source of their knowledge was social media platforms like Facebook and WhatsApp. Some of the fake news on social media is so farfetched that it suggests the vaccine will change “your DNA” or contains poison as part of the white population’s plan to kill off ethnic minorities. The National Health Service (NHS), which is responsible for administering the free vaccine to the UK’s 67 million population, is so worried about South Asian communities rejecting the Covid vaccine that they have begun a drive to counter the fake news. They are appealing to role models, influencers, commu¬nity leaders and most importantly religious leaders to help them in their antidisinformation drive to debunk the myths. “We need to be clear and make people realise there is no meat in the vaccine, there is no beef or pork in the vaccine and it has been accepted and endorsed by all the religious leaders and councils and faith communities,” said Dr Harpreet Sood, a doctor with NHS England who is leading the NHS antidisinformation drive. Temples, gurdwaras and mosques that are still open for private prayers but with social distancing protocols during the country’s third lockdown have been asked to help in dispelling the myths created by fake news. Some gurdwaras have allowed the NHS to convert their premises into vaccination centres so as to instill faith among Sikhs that the vaccine is pure. As of now vaccines are being administered in local sports and leisure centres which are closed in the lockdown. More than a hundred mosques across the country have been pressed into service and Friday sermons that are currently going out online tell Muslims that the vaccine is halal. “There should be no hesitation in taking the vaccine from a moral perspective. It is our ethical duty to protect ourselves and others from harm,” said Qari Asim, chair of the Mosques and Imams National Advisory Board that has organised the campaign. Worried that the slow uptake of the vaccine by the Muslim communities could “fan the flames of Islamophobia” again, Asim has urged leaders to take the jab on camera to instill faith among the community. During the first lockdown when mosques were closed, the far Right spread rumours using old footage to say that mosques were open and scapegoated Muslims as superspreaders. “No community should be scapegoated during this pandemic,” Asim said. It is the older generations who are falling prey to the barrage of fake news appearing on their smart phones on which they have become heavily reliant to keep in touch with family and friends during the pandemic. “I have been giving lectures on Hindu community websites urging elderly members to get the vaccines as they are vegetarian and totally safe,” Dr Jyoti Shah, senior consultant with the NHS, told The Telegraph. Many Indian-origin medical professionals are doing the same in various Indian languages. Ironically while the South Asian communities have been among the worst affected by Covid19 in the UK, it is the same communities that are the most reticent about the vaccine. According to Dr Sood, language and cultural barriers play a large part in the false information. Indian communities are also more prone to superstition and stigma, which is also partly at play. A recent survey by the Royal Society of Public Health showed that just under half of the black, Asian and minority ethnic (BAME) people did not agree to take the vaccine. It found that only 57 per cent of BAME said they would take the vaccine, which is much lower than the 79 per cent of white people who are willing to take the jabs.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-400
20-01-2021||India||Lone out of J&K alliance||The Sajad Lone led People’s Conference on Tuesday walked out of the sevenparty alliance fighting for the restoration of Article 370, dealing the first major blow to the efforts of proIndia groups to present a united front for the shared goal of getting back Jammu and Kashmir’s special status. The alliance has been simmering with discontent since it contested last month’s maiden District Development Council elections, whereparties are believed to have fielded proxy candidates against the official candidates. The alliance won the highest 110 out of 280 seats and it could have fared better but for the proxies. Lone on Tuesday shot off a letter to Farooq Abdullah, who heads the People’s Alliance for Gupkar Declaration, alleging “breach of trust” between the alliance partners in the elections. He, however, swore to continue fighting for the restoration of Article 370. “It is difficult for us to stay on and pretend as if nothing has happened. There has been a breach of trust between partners which we believe is beyond remedy,” Lone, who was also the spokesperson of the alliance, said. “The majoritarian view in our party is that we should pull out of the alliance in an amicable manner rather than waiting for things to get messier. “And I am confirming that we will no longer be a part of the PAGD alliance.” Lone’s People’s Conference was the third biggest group in the alliance after the National Conference and People’s Democratic Party. The coalition is now left with six members, including the CPM. Lone, formerly a separatist who became the main reason for the split of the Hurriyat Conference in mid2000s into moderate and hardline factions, said they were divorcing from the alliance and not its objectives. “We will continue to adhere to the objectives that we set out when this alliance was made. And the PAGD leadership should be assured that we will extend support on all issues which fall within the ambit of stated objectives,” Lone said. “We have issued clear instructions to all party leaders not to issue any statements against the PAGD alliance or its leaders.” During the 2002 Assembly elections, Lone was accused by Hurriyat hardliner Syed Ali Shah Geelani of fielding proxy candidates in some constituencies, a charge he then denied. A few years later, Lone formally joined electoral politics and emerged as a key ally of the BJP after the 2014 elections. He was accommodated in the cabinet at the BJP’s bidding but they fell apart in 2019 after he fiercely criticised the Centre’s plan to scrap the special status of Jammu and Kashmir. Lone and some other colleagues were jailed for months, along with thousands others, for opposing the abrogation of Article 370. He appeared a changed man after he was released and played a key role in forging a formal alliance to fight for its restoration. When the alliance surprisingly chose to contest the DDC elections, many people in the Valley had voiced concern that they were falling in Delhi’s trap. Though their demand for restoration of Article 370 is close to the heart of many people, the elections saw a modest turnout of 33 per cent in the Valley, a reflection of how many people were unwilling to trust them and accused them of strengthening the roots of India in J&K in the past. Lone’s decision to part ways is likely to raise more apprehensions about these parties and it could lead to more disunity in the camp. A leader of the alliance admitted Lone’s decision was a setback but hoped the rest of the parties will work for strengthening the grouping. The letter to Farooq said the decision to walk out was taken during an intraparty meeting in Srinagar where the “predominant feeling” was that the sentiment of the alliance at the top “was not emulated on the ground”. “It was felt that the results of a sincere alliance should have meant that ‘the whole is greater than the sum of its parts’,” Lone said. “Instead the whole was not greater than the sum of parts, sadly not even equal to the sum of parts, but much lesser and equal to just one part of the many parts.” Lone said at the majority of places, the party fielding the candidate on behalf of the alliance was left “to fend for itself”. He said other parties were “silent bystanders” or “worse, compounded the problem by fielding proxy candidates”. Trouble has been brewing in the alliance after two PC leaders Imran Ansari and Abdul Gani Vakil publicly questioned the alliance leadership over the question of “proxy” candidates in the DDC polls and also after some National Conference and CPM leaders chose to meet the lieutenantgovernor. “This alliance needed sacrifice. Every party had to sacrifice on the ground in terms of giving space to fellow allies. No party is willing to cede space, no party is willing to sacrifice,” Lone wrote. “We fought against each other in Kashmir province not against the perpetrators of 5 August (2019, the day when Article 370 was scrapped). And those who perpetrated 5 August and their minions are now vocally gleeful.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-400
20-01-2021||India||Vaccines are safe, safe, safe: Officials ||Two senior health officials on Tuesday urged healthcare workers to abandon hesitancy and accept the Covid-19 vaccines offered to them amid concerns that many potential beneficiaries have declined the jabs since the vaccination campaign started on January 16. The campaign, currently covering healthcare workers, has vaccinated over 631,000 people across the country but vaccine uptake has ranged from over 80 per cent in Telangana and 72 per cent in Uttar Pradesh to 34 per cent in Tamil Nadu and 27 per cent in Punjab. Vinod Paul, a senior paediatrician and the chair of the national expert group on Covid-19 vaccination strategy, said those who were “fortunate” to be listed to receive vaccines in the early days or weeks of the campaign should “not refuse”. The two vaccines used in the campaign — the AstraZeneca-Oxford vaccine, Covishield, made in India by the Serum Institute of India and the homegrown Covaxin made by Bharat Biotech — are both very good, safe, and capable of generating strong immune responses, he said. The Union health ministry said India had documented only 18 adverse events following immunisation (AEFIs) per 100,000 people vaccinated and only nine AEFIs have required hospitalisation among the 631,417 vaccinated until 6pm on Tuesday. “We have an extremely robust system for AEFI reporting and AEFI management,” said Rajesh Bhushan, the health secretary, outlining the mechanisms the campaign has put in place at the district, state and national level to track AEFIs among vaccine recipients. “When you receive a vaccine which is assigned to you, you protect yourself, and you can perform your functions without fear of contracting the infection. You can protect your family,” Paul said. “And once an individual is protected, the virus cannot cross that individual.” An individual person who could have been protected but does not take the vaccine remains susceptible to the infection and may continue to spread the virus. “We’re not fulfilling our societal responsibility if a vaccine assigned to you is not being taken,” Paul said. Balram Bhargava, the director-general of the Indian Council of Medical Research and member of the national task force on Covid-19, also issued a similar appeal. “It is very clear that both these Covid-19 vaccines are very safe. The time to take the vaccine is now.” The appeals come against the backdrop of concerns among sections of doctors and medical experts that India has approved the homegrown Covaxin with only safety and immunogenicity data, while efficacy data is still awaited. Some doctors have said they’ll take Covaxin only after efficacy is proven. Paul, however, said it would be “sad” if healthcare workers decline vaccines. “In the next few days to weeks, we hope to cover all our healthcare workers, they’ll be Covid-proof,” he said. “Why doubt, I have taken Covaxin and I have zero side effects. Look at the data — both vaccines are safe, safe, safe.” But other medical experts underlined that while safety has been established, there is no data yet on the efficacy of Covaxin. “The problem is that with one vaccine, we don’t know for sure yet whether we’ll be protected — this is the worry,” said a senior researcher who requested not to be named. “Would it not be a disservice to healthcare workers to use something with unproven efficacy when you had the option of only deploying something with proven efficacy?” the researcher said. “They’ll think they’re protected, but they may or may not be — that’s the worry.” Another senior clinical-researcher in a leading medical institution and college said: “On what basis is the claim being made about protection? And there is no such thing as Covid-proof. Reduced risk, yes.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-401
20-01-2021||India||Sasikala nears jail term end||V.K. Sasikala,close associate of former Tamil Nadu chief minister Jayalalithaa, is nearing the completion of her fouryear jail term in a disproportionate assets case. Sasikala has been serving the sentence with her sisterinlaw J. Ilavarasi and nephew V.N. Sudhakaran, who too would complete their fouryear jail terms around the same time. Although there is no offi¬cial confirmation on the date of her release, sources said Sasikala was expected to com¬plete her term on January 27. But it is not known if Ilavarasi and Sudhakaran would also walk free on the same day. The authorities of Banga¬lore central jail have not been forthcoming with any infor¬mation after Sasikala raised objections. Sasikala has broken away from the All India Anna Dravi¬da Munnetra Kazhagam (AIADMK) when her nephew T.T.V. Dinakaran floated the Amma Makkal Munnetra Kazhagam in March 2018. Her onetime associate who played a pivotal role dur¬ing the case, Va Pugazhendi, said everyone was waiting in anticipation for Sasikala to walk out of prison. “We all know she will be released very soon but have no idea about the exact date,” Pugazhendi, now an AIADMK spokesman, told this newspa¬per on Tuesday. He said there were great expectations from Sasikala’s return to Tamil Nadu, al¬though she would not be able to contest any election for six years from the date of her re¬lease as per provisions of the Peoples Representation Act that lays down the law for peo¬ple who have served at least two years of prison time. In Tamil Nadu, efforts are on to convince Sasikala to merge or join her fledgling party with the ruling AIADMKBJP alliance ahead of the state polls this summer and put up a united front against the challenge from the DMK led by M.K. Stalin. “I have been trying to get the exact date of her release since there is a lot of interest among the people of Tamil Nadu. But the prison officials have refused to give out any information after she raised objections,” RTI activist T. Narasimha Murthy told The Telegraph on Tuesday. Murthy said he had last filed an RTI application about two weeks ago. But the prison has not released any updated information on her release. A special court in Bangalore had in September 2014 convicted Jayalalithaa, Sasikala, Ilavarasi and Sudhakaran in the disproportionate assets case. The court had also slapped a penalty of Rs 100 crore on Jayalalithaa, who passed away in December 2016, and Rs 10 crore each on the others. While the Supreme Court had granted them bail after they had served 22 days in Bangalore central prison, Sasikala, Ilavarasi and Sudhakaran returned to jail in February 2017 to complete the rest of their terms. Sasikala and her kin eventually paid the fines in November 2020 to pave the way for their timely release from jail. According to RTI information Murthy had received from the prison authorities in August 2020, Sasikala had served 13 days in judicial custody when she was first arrested in the case in 1997, and another 22 days as a convicted prisoner when all four were sentenced by the special court in 2014. She has been serving the rest of her term from February 2017. According to another RTI response secured by him in October 2020, Sasikala had opted for parole twice, for five days in October 2017 and 12 days in March 2018 when her husband M. Natarajan passed away in Chennai.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-401
20-01-2021||India||Jamia retirement rule fuels suspicion ||Jamia Millia Islamia has adopted a controversial government rule that allows forcing employees to take early retirement based on a performance review, causing resentment among university teachers. Jamia registrar Nazim Husain Al-Jafri issued an office order last week under the subject heading “Periodic review of Jamia’s employees for strengthening of administration under Fundamental Rule (FR) 56(j) and Rule 48 of CCS (Pension) Rules, 1972”. “It is to inform that there is a provision under Fundamental Rule 56(j) to undertake periodic review of performance of government servants from time to time with a view to ascertain whether the government servant should be retained in service or retired from service prematurely, in public interest, as per Fundamental Provisions/Rules as referred above,” the order said. “The government has issued instructions from time to time in this regard and recently the ministry of personnel, public grievances and pensions, government of India, Department of Personnel and Training has issued an OM (office memorandum) … dated 28th August 2020 and reiterated the said provisions. The above referred DoPT OM dated 28.08.2020 has been ordered to be circulated in the university for information and adoption of all concerned,” added the order, which has been circulated among all deans of faculties, heads of departments and finance officers. The DoPT order, which has been attached to the notice of the registrar, says the appropriate authority shall have the right to retire a government servant on a notice of less than three months if the employee is in the Group A and B categories and has attained the age of 50. For employees in other categories, premature retirement can be ordered if they have attained the age of 55. JMI Teachers’ Association (JTA) secretary Prof. Majid Jamil said the university’s teachers were not governed by Central Civil Services (CCS) rules of the government and that they would oppose the move. “We have our own ordinance on service conditions. We will not allow the government’s service rules to be applied to us. These rules have the potential to be misuse,” Jamil said. He said the Jamia ordinance on service conditions had been adopted long ago after proper discussions in the academic and executive councils. “These government rules (on premature retirement) have been circulated for implementation without any discussion in the academic council or the executive council,” Jamil said. A senior administrative staff member of another central university said the University Grants Commission (UGC) had issued the government rules to all central universities, requesting implementation. “The UGC has sent these rules. But it has not issued any reminder. We have not implemented them yet,” the official said. Delhi University Executive Council member Rajesh Jha called the rules a tool to silence the government’s critics among academics. “Teaching and research cannot be equated with the work of government officials. Teachers inculcate critical thinking among students. They do research and arrive at findings, which may not be to the liking of the government. And academic performance cannot be subjected to any standardised assessment. So, it can be misused to please those in political power,” Jha said. According to him, the possibility of misuse is high, given the targeting and victimisation of academics who have criticised the current regime. Rajib Ray, the president of the Federation of Central Universities Teachers Association (FedCUTA), the outfit representing the teachers of all central universities, said they would oppose the rules. An email this newspaper sent to Jamia vice-chancellor Prof. Najma Akhtar for comment on the university’s decision went unanswered.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-401
20-01-2021||India||Pulwama deaths: Celebration ‘logic’||Retired Major General G.D. Bakshi, known to spew ultranationalist vitriol on primetime news television, on Tuesday defended Republic TV managing director Arnab Goswami’s purported whoop of joy after the deaths of 40 Indian soldiers in Pulwama. The veteran, a regular on Republic TV, was asked what he thought of Goswami’s purported WhatsApp message less than three hours after the tragedy: “This attack we have won like crazy.” Goswami was elated his channel had been ahead of rivals on the attack coverage. Gen. Bakshi at first questioned the authenticity of the chat, saying it needed to be verified before you can “hang” anyone for it. Then, when pointed out that Goswami himself had not denied it, he said India had been thirsting for revenge against Pakistan for 30 years and the deaths of 40 soldiers had given it a reason to hit back at that country. “What was being celebrated was the fact that they are sure to be hit hard,” Gen. Bakshi said. The veteran also defended Goswami on purportedly getting advance access to information about the Balakot strike. “If you accuse Arnab of divulging a national security secret that the Indian Air Force is going to attack Pakistan — that is counterfactual.… India’s declaratory policy was to retaliate strongly to such masscasualty terror strikes,” he said.. India had so retaliated postUri with a surgical strike inside Pakistan to eliminate terror launch pads. I do not buy the line that he (Goswami) leaked national secrets because everybody knew that India would strike back unlike (after) 26/11 when we did sweet nothing apart from sending dossiers to Pakistani court, which they refused to take as evidence.” Bakshi had tweeted on Monday: “Just who authorised the Mahrashtra police to tap the phones and WhatsAap messages of the Prime Minister of India? Some seems to have gone of his rocker there completely.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-401
20-01-2021||India||‘Unbiased’ promise: SC-appointed committee assure farmers about their neutrality||The Supreme Courtappointed committee on the contentious farm laws met for the first time on Tuesday and sought to assure all farmers of an unbiased hearing, the personal opinions of the three members overseeing the process notwithstanding. “The Supreme Court has nominated us for this job not to share our views but to carry out consultations with all stakeholders and make recommendations based on these interactions,” Pramod Joshi, an agricultural economist who is one of the three remaining members of the committee, told The Telegraph. The Supreme Court had appointed four members for the committee, but one of those nominated — Bhupinder Singh Mann, the chairman of the All India Kisan Coordination Committee, was quoted by his outfit as having recused himself, purportedly in deference to the prevailing sentiments of the farmers. The choice of committee nominees had drawn flak as all four are in favour of the three contentious farm laws, raising questions about their neutrality. At Tuesday’s meeting, the three members essentially drew up a road map for the next two months to hold deliberations and receive opinions from all stakeholders, includ¬ing those opposed to the farm laws. Admitting that it would take some convincing to get the protesting farmers to participate in the process after they had rejected it outright, Joshi said the committee planned to set up a portal to allow everyone to submit their views to ensure transparency in the exercise. In creating a portal and inviting all stakeholders, including the state governments, to submit their opinions, the committee will essentially be doing what the Narendra Modi government did not do while enacting the three laws — hold prelegislative consultations when the bills are supposed to be placed in the public domain to generate a debate and draw in all viewpoints. “We will write to the protesting farmers and request them to participate, pointing out that we have not been tasked by the government but by the Supreme Court,” Joshi said. The Samyukta Kisan Morcha, which had decided not to approach the courts against the laws, have been of the view that the Supreme Court has no role to play in a political decision taken by the executive. Another member, Anil Ghanwat of the Shetkari Sanghatana, said the committee would also discuss with state marketing boards, farmer producer organisations and cooperatives. The Centre plans to submit before the committee and it remains to be seen if the state governments that have passed resolutions against the three farm laws also join. For state governments which have mandis, the Farmers’ Produce Trade and Commerce (Promotion and Facilitation) Act results in loss of revenue as the new law allows farmers to sell their harvest outside the notified Agricultural Produce Market Committee mandis without paying state taxes or fees. This would mean further loss of revenue for states, already cashstrapped due to GST. While ordering the setting up of the committee, the Supreme Court had said it was being constituted for the purpose of listening to the grievances of the farmers relating to the farm laws, the views of the government and to make recommendations. As the movement prolongs, the SKM has had to deal with rumblings within its own leadership; particularly over the politicisation of the movement. After one section of the leadership took a grim view of Gurnam Singh Chaduni, a farm leader of Haryana, participating in an allparty meeting on the farm laws, another veteran, Shiv Kumar Sharma ‘Kakkaji’, was censured for making uncharitable remarks against Chaduni. Both leaders explained their actions, and the matter was considered closed for the “wellbeing of the movement” and a general call was given on Tuesday to all protesters to avoid making allegations against each other, urging them not to lose sight of the task at hand at this critical juncture of the struggle.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-401
20-01-2021||India||Shah at police HQ ahead of R-Day ||Union home minister Amit Shah on Tuesday visited the Delhi police headquarters and held a meeting with the top brass of the force to review security arrangements a week before the Republic Day. Shah’s visit also came amid the ongoing protest by farmers at Delhi’s borders and their planned tractor rally on January 26. The Centre had earlier moved an application in the Supreme Court for its direction to prevent the tractor rally on the ground that Khalistanis had infiltrated the farmers’ protest and could disturb peace if the parade was allowed to enter Delhi. On Monday the apex court had said it was for the government to decide whether to allow the farmers’ proposed tractor rally in Delhi on Republic Day. Senior Delhi police officers again held discussions on Tuesday with the Samyukta Kisan Morcha, which has announced plans to hold a farmers’ parade in New Delhi on Republic Day after the official parade ends. “We held a discussion with them on Monday and again today on the route they plan to take for the tractor rally. We are constantly keeping the home minister posted about the development on the issue,” said a Delhi police officer. Delhi police reports directly to Shah. The home minister also lauded the force for its exemplary services to the people during his visit to the police headquarters.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-401
20-01-2021||India||Opinions can change, says CJI ||Chief Justice of India S.A. Bobde on Tuesday said that a person expressing views on an issue does not disqualify him from being selected for a committee on that matter, at a time the Supreme Court’s choices for a committee to broker peace between protesting farmers and the government have come in for criticism. CJI Bobde did not refer to a specific panel, neither was he hearing a case related to the farm protests, but his comments were seen in the light of the anger at the Supreme Court nominating people who have supported the government’s contentious agriculture laws to the committee for talks. “There is some confusion in understanding the law. One person may have an opinion before being a part of the committee but his opinion can change. There is no way that such a member cannot be part of a committee,” Justice Bobde remarked during the hearing of cases related to cheque bounce offences. The CJI made it clear that the observations were general in nature and not confined to the matter before the court on Tuesday. “We are taking of a general misunderstanding. Committee members are not judges. They can always change their views,” Justice Bobde said. The committee on the farm laws, set up on January 12, has Bhupinder Singh Mann, national president of the Bharatiya Kisan Union and the All India Kisan Coordination Committee; Parmod Kumar Joshi, agricultural economist and director for South Asia, International Food Policy Research Institute; Ashok Gulati, agricultural economist and former chairman of the Commission for Agricultural Costs and Prices; and Anil Ghanwat, president of the Shetkari Sanghatana. In a letter attributed to him and which he has not dissociated himself from, Mann has purportedly recused himself from the panel, citing his commitment to Punjab and farmers.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-401
20-01-2021||India||Veterans seek CBI or NIA probe against Arnab Goswami ||The Confederation of Ex-Parliamentary Forces Welfare Association on Tuesday shot off letters to the President and the Delhi police commissioner demanding “immediate arrest of Republic TV editor-in-chief Arnab Goswami under the Official Secrets Act for committing treason”. In his letter to President Ram Nath Kovind, association president Ranbir Singh highlighted that Goswami’s purported WhatsApp chats suggested that he was celebrating the deaths of 40 CRPF personnel in the Pulwama terror attack and also talking about milking the massacre to increase his channel’s viewership ratings. The letter pointed out that the purported chats also suggested that Goswami had revealed national security secrets as he had advance information of the Balakot air strike. “Goswami who has sown the seeds of poison in the society and tried to destroy the social fabric is celebrating the deaths of our jawans. How has he been getting information related to national security? How did he know that something big was going to happen? In his purported chats that have gone viral he has even mentioned the Prime Minister’s Office.” “It is our humble request that a probe by CBI/NIA should be ordered against Goswami for celebrating the deaths of our jawans for his channel’s TRP and also disclosing highly sensitive information relating to national security and he be tried for treason,” the letter said. In its letter to Delhi police commissioner S.N. Srivastava, the association demanded that an FIR be registered against Goswami on charges of treason and also called for his immediate arrest.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-401
20-01-2021||India||Farmers last bastion ‘against PM cronies’: Rahul||Rahul Gandhi on Tuesday said Prime Minister Narendra Modi was working to create “monopolies” of four-five people and the new farm laws were part of that project but lamented that the country had not yet understood the enormity of this tragedy. Rahul said: “A huge tragedy is unfolding and it is not only about farmers. This is about the country’s future, about the country’s ability to be strong, to stand tall among other nations. What we are seeing is industry after industry — airports, infrastructure, power, telecom, retail — across the board, three-four-five people now own this country.” Addressing the media after releasing a booklet on the farm crisis at the party headquarters, the former Congress president said: “This small group, the crony capitalists, who have close relations with the Prime Minister, own the country. Agriculture, the biggest business in India — involving 60 per cent of the population — was protected from monopolies so far. Now we are witnessing this last bastion being overrun. The three farm laws are designed to destroy farmers and hand over agriculture to these four-five people.” Arguing that people’s independence was being snatched and youngsters will not get job under such monopolistic control, Rahul said: “It is a tragedy that the entire country is watching this ridiculous show. It is a tragedy that shows the country itself is not able to understand the depth of what is happening.” He said the people cannot imagine the price they will have to pay for foodgrain if these four-five business houses are allowed to store millions and millions tones of wheat, rice and other essential commodities. “Farmers are not fighting their own battle. They are patriots and they are fighting to prevent this country from falling into the hands of three-four people. I support them fully and every Indian should.” Asked about BJP chief J.P. Nadda’s allegation that he was misleading the farmers with his poor understanding, Rahul burst out. “Farmers know who is Rahul Gandhi and what he does. They know where were Narendra Modi and Nadda when Rahul was fighting for farmers in Bhatta Parsaul, Land Acquisition Act and loan waiver. This is my character. I am not scared of Modi and these people. Mujhe koi fark nahin padta. Main saaf-suthra aadmi hun. Mujhe ye chhoo nahin sakte. Haan goli maar sakte hain, woh alag baat hai (I am not affected by what they say. I am clean person. They can’t touch me. Yes, they can shoot me but that’s a different matter).” He went on: “Main deshbhakt hun. Desh ki raksha karta jaaonga. Ye mera dharm hai. Main unse jyada fanatic hun (I am a patriot. I will continue protecting the country. This is my religion. I am more fanatic than them). Even if the entire country stands with them, I will fight these forces alone. The country fought for freedom 70-80 years ago and the similar situation is developing. Don’t trust me now. But remember what I said after you lose freedom.” Dismissing Nadda as inconsequential, he countered the BJP’s charge by saying: “When did the Congress make laws which abolished the mandis, allowed storage without stock limit and prevented farmers from going to court in case of dispute?” He argued that Modi’s intention was to weaken the farmers so as to rule out the possibility of a fightback and hence nothing short of repeal of these laws should be acceptable. Asked whether a weak Opposition was the reason for such a bulldozing government, he said: “The Opposition fights through the institutional framework. They have captured every institution — courts, media… they don’t allow us to speak in Parliament. There is an atmosphere of fear… bologe toh maarenge (if you speak, they will beat you up). Anybody speaking against them is branded an anti-national, projected as an enemy.” Asked how will justice happen then, he said: “I believe in the spirit of this country; I don’t believe you can impose slavery on this country. I don’t believe this country will accept five-six people owning it. Resistance will come from the people. We don’t have thousands of crores that Modi has to control the media. But that forces us to be honest, to be good. There are millions and millions of people in this country who don’t accept the nonsense that is going on. They see the massive failure; the best-performing economy has become the worst. The world is seeing lakhs of farmers sitting in the cold. Modi should be ashamed of it... he is tearing apart what was built slowly, from Mahatma onwards.” Asked if the Prime Minister should talk directly to the farmers, he said: “But that’s not his style. Why should we suggest if he won’t listen. They don’t. They have been trained by the RSS not to think, not to learn. They only speak.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-401
