21-01-2021||India||Farmers reject Centre proposal to suspend agri laws for a year-and-a-half||Farmers protesting against the three agriculture acts on Thursday rejected the government’s proposal to suspend the three contentious farm laws for 18 months and set up a joint committee to find an amicable solution to end the deadlock. The decision was announced by the Samyukt Kisan Morcha, an umbrella body of protesting unions leading protests at several Delhi border points. “In a full general body meeting of the Samyukt Kisan Morcha today, the proposal put forth by the Government yesterday, was rejected,” a statement from the SKM said. “The SKM pays homage to the 143 farmers who have been martyred in this movement so far. These companions are separated from us while fighting this mass movement. Their sacrifice will not go in vain and we will not go back without the repealing of these farm laws,” the statement said. “A full repeal of three central farm acts and enacting a legislation for remunerative MSP for all farmers were reiterated as the pending demands of the movement,” it added. The unions held a marathon meeting on Thursday to discuss the government’s proposal of suspending the farm laws. A farmer leader said that the Morcha started its meeting around 2.30 pm on Thursday and it was expected to last till late evening. During the 10th round of talks on Wednesday, the Centre had proposed to suspend the contentious laws for 18 months and set up a joint committee to find an amicable solution in the interest of the farming community. The farmers had given no immediate reply and said they will hold discussions to confirm their stand. Briefing media after a nearly five-hour-long meeting that included two breaks, Union Agriculture Minister Narendra Singh Tomar said on Wednesday the government has proposed to suspend implementation of the three laws for 1-1.5 years, during which period a joint committee of representatives from the government and farmers’ sides can continue their talks and those protesting on Delhi borders in extremely cold weather return to their homes. He had hoped that this would end the over-a-month-long deadlock with the farmers. However, the unions had indicated their rejection of the offer on the spot. “The government proposed to suspend the farm laws for one-and-a-half years. We rejected the proposal but since it has come from the government, we will meet tomorrow and deliberate over it,” Bharatiya Kisan Union (Ugrahan) president Joginder Singh Ugrahan had said. During the meeting, the government also offered to amend the three laws but farmer leaders stuck to their demand and alleged that the Centre was avoiding discussion on a legal guarantee for MSP. Earlier in the day, the meeting between protesting unions and police over the January 26 tractor rally remained inconclusive as the farmers stuck to their demand to take it out on Delhi's busy Outer Ring Road. Talking to reporters after the meeting, Swaraj Abhiyan leader Yogendra Yadav said that police officers wanted farmer leaders to take out their tractor rally outside the national capital, which is not possible. “We will carry out our parade peacefully inside Delhi. They wanted us to hold the tractor rally outside Delhi, which is not possible,” said Yadav, who is actively participating in the ongoing agitation against the three farm laws. Sources said that police officers tried to convince protesting farm unions to hold their tractor rally on the Kundli-Manesar-Palwal (KMP) Expressway instead of the Outer Ring Road.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-397
21-01-2021||India||Farmers hold series of discussions ahead of Centre talks||Protesting farmers unions, a day ahead of their 11th round of talks with the Centre on Thursday, held a marathon meeting to discuss the government’s proposal of suspending the farm laws. During the 10th round of talks, the Centre had proposed to suspend the contentious laws for 18 months and set up a joint committee to find an amicable solution in the interest of the farming community. Sankyukt Kisan Morcha, an umbrella body of farm unions leading protests at several Delhi border points, held discussion over the government’s latest offer at the Singhu border. A farmer leader said that the Morcha started its meeting around 2.30 pm on Thursday and it is expected to last till late evening. During the 10th round of negotiations on Wednesday, the government proposed to suspend the three contentious farm laws for one to one and a half years and set up a joint committee to find an amicable solution in the interest of the farming community. The two sides decided to meet again on Friday. Meanwhile, the Supreme Court-appointed panel on the new agri laws started its consultation process on Thursday and interacted with 10 farmer organisations from eight states, including Uttar Pradesh. The apex court had on January 11 stayed the implementation of the three laws, against which farmers are protesting at Delhi borders for nearly two months now, till further orders and appointed a four-member panel to resolve the impasse. Earlier in the day, the meeting between protesting unions and police over the January 26 tractor rally remained inconclusive as the farmers stuck to their demand to take it out on Delhi's busy Outer Ring Road. Talking to reporters after the meeting, Swaraj Abhiyan leader Yogendra Yadav said that police officers wanted farmer leaders to take out their tractor rally outside the national capital, which is not possible. “We will carry out our parade peacefully inside Delhi. They wanted us to hold the tractor rally outside Delhi, which is not possible,” said Yadav, who is actively participating in the ongoing agitation against the three farm laws. Sources said that police officers tried to convince protesting farm unions to hold their tractor rally on the Kundli-Manesar-Palwal (KMP) Expressway instead of the Outer Ring Road.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-397
21-01-2021||India||Five dead in fire at Serum Institute in Pune, nine evacuated||Five persons died after a fire broke out at a building at the Serum Institute of India’s Manjari premises in Pune on Thursday, while nine others were evacuated from the facility, police said. Mayor Murlidhar Mohol said it appears the five persons who died in the fire were working on the building floor. Fire officials recovered the bodies during an inspection, he said. The Manjari facility is where the Covishield vaccine used in the nationwide inoculation drive against the pandemic is made. The building where the fire broke out is part of the under-construction site of the Serum facility and is one kilometre from the Covishield manufacturing unit, sources said. However, Serum Institute of India CEO Adar Poonawalla said that Covishield vaccine production will not be affected due to the fire. “I would like to reassure all governments & the public that there would be no loss of #COVISHIELD production due to multiple production buildings that I had kept in reserve to deal with such contingencies at @SerumInstIndia,” Poonawalla tweeted. “We have just received some distressing updates; upon further investigation we have learnt that there has unfortunately been some loss of life at the incident. We are deeply saddened and offer our deepest condolences to the family members of the departed,” Poonawalla added. Maharashtra Deputy Chief Minister Ajit Pawar said the state government has ordered a probe into the blaze. The fire, which broke out at 2.45 pm on the fourth and fifth floors of the SEZ 3 building in the Serum Institute premises, was brought under control in two hours, police said. Deputy Commissioner of Police Namrata Patil told PTI that nine people were evacuated from the spot after the fire broke out. Viral visuals from the site showed smoke billowing out from the Serum Institute facility. Chief Fire Officer Prashant Ranpise said cooling work has commenced at the spot. Fifteen water tankers were pressed into action and the fire was brought under control around 4.30 pm, he said. “The cause of the fire is yet to be ascertained. Furniture, wiring, cabins were gutted. No major machinery or instruments were stored on the floors where the fire broke out,” he said. “I have taken information from the Pune Municipal Corporation about the incident and instructed local officials to carry out a detailed probe into the fire,” Ajit Pawar said. Chief Minister Uddhav Thackeray told reporters that as per initial information, an electrical fault caused the fire. “As per initial information, the fire did not erupt at the unit where the Covid-19 vaccine is being produced, but in the unit where the BCG vaccine is produced,” Thackeray said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-397
21-01-2021||India||SC panel on farm laws interacts with 10 organisations from eight states||The Supreme Court-appointed panel on the new agri laws on Thursday started its consultation process and interacted with 10 farmer organisations from eight states, including Uttar Pradesh. The apex court had on January 11 stayed the implementation of the three laws, against which farmers are protesting at Delhi borders for nearly two months now, till further orders and appointed a four-member panel to resolve the impasse. Currently, there are three members in the panel as the fourth, Bhartiya Kisan Union president Bhupinder Singh Mann, has recused himself from the committee. The panel, in a statement, said that the interaction was held through video conference with various farmer unions and associations on Thursday. Members had met for the first time on Tuesday at the Pusa campus in New Delhi. Ghanwat revealed that the first round of consultations with farmers and other stakeholders has been scheduled for Thursday. Ten farmer organisations from Karnataka, Kerala, Madhya Pradesh, Maharashtra, Odisha, Telangana, Tamil Nadu and Uttar Pradesh participated in discussions with committee members, it said. “The farmers’ unions participated in the discussion and gave their frank opinion including suggestions to improve the implementation of Acts,” the statement said. On Wednesday, the protesting unions had told the Supreme Court that they would not participate in meetings and deliberations to be held by the court-appointed committee to address their grievances and maintained they wanted the new farm laws repealed. The top court told the lawyers appearing for farmers unions that all it wanted is a resolution of the impasse and peace, while the clarifying committee has not been given adjudicatory powers and it will only submit its report to it. The participating farmer bodies were asked to give their views on the Farmers’ Produce Trade and Commerce (Promotion and Facilitation) Act, 2020, the Farmers (Empowerment and Protection) Agreement on Price Assurance and Farm Services Act, 2020, and the Essential Commodities (Amendment) Act, 2020. President of Maharashtra-based Shetkari Sanghatana Anil Ghanwat and agri-economists Ashok Gulati and Pramod Kumar Joshi are the three members of the panel. “The biggest challenge for the panel is to convince agitating farmers to come and speak with us. We will try our best,” Ghanwad had said on Tuesday. Ghanwat further said the committee will seek views of farmers and all other stakeholders on the new farm laws, besides the central and state governments. “Panel members will keep their personal views on farm laws aside while preparing a report to be submitted to the Supreme Court,” he said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-397
21-01-2021||India||China on Arunachal: constructing within territory ‘normal’||The Chinese Foreign Ministry on Thursday said China’s development and construction activities “within its own territory” is “normal” and beyond reproach in reaction to reports on building a new village in Arunachal Pradesh. “China's position on the Zangnan region (South Tibet) is consistent and clear. We never recognised the so-called Arunachal Pradesh,” Chinese Foreign Ministry spokesperson Hua Chunying told a media briefing while responding to a question. China claims Arunachal Pradesh as part of southern Tibet, while India’s consistent stand has been that the northeastern state is an integral and inalienable part of the country. “This is beyond reproach as it is in our territory,” Hua added. In a report, NDTV showed two images of the area in Arunachal Pradesh where it said a new village has been set up by China and it consisted of about 101 homes. According to the channel, the first image dated August 26, 2019 did not show any human habitation but the second one of November 2020 shows a row of structures. In a cautious reaction to the report, India on Monday said it keeps a constant watch on all developments having a bearing on the country’s security, and takes necessary measures to safeguard its sovereignty and territorial integrity. The Ministry of External Affairs in New Delhi said India has stepped up the construction of border infrastructure, including roads and bridges for the improvement of livelihood of its citizens. “Government keeps a constant watch on all developments having a bearing on India's security and takes all the necessary measures to safeguard its sovereignty and territorial integrity,” it said. The India-China border dispute covers the 3,488-km-long Line of Actual Control (LAC). The report about China setting up a new village in Arunachal Pradesh comes amid a military standoff in eastern Ladakh for over eight months. India and China have held several rounds of military and diplomatic talks to resolve the face-off in eastern Ladakh, but no significant headway has been made so far.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-397
21-01-2021||India||Fire breaks out at Serum Institute of India's Pune facility||Nine persons were evacuated from a building in the Serum Institute of India's Manjari premises here after a fire broke out there on Thursday, police said. There would be no loss of Covishield production due to the fire, Serum Institute of India CEO Adar Poonawalla said. The Manjari facility is where the Covishield vaccine used in the nationwide inoculation drive against the pandemic is made. The building where the fire broke out is part of the under-construction site of the Serum facility and is one km from the Covishield manufacturing unit, sources said. "Thank you, everyone, for your concern and prayers. So far the most important thing is that there have been no lives lost or major injuries due to the fire, despite a few floors being destroyed," Poonawalla tweeted. "I would like to reassure all governments & the public that there would be no loss of #COVISHIELD production due to multiple production buildings that I had kept in reserve to deal with such contingencies at @SerumInstIndia. Thank you very much @PuneCityPolice & Fire Department," he added. Maharashtra Deputy Chief Minister Ajit Pawar said the state government has ordered a probe into the fire. The fire, which broke out at 2.45 pm on the fourth and fifth floors of the SEZ 3 building in the Serum Institute premises, was brought under control in two hours, police said. Deputy Commissioner of Police Namrata Patil told PTI that nine people were evacuated from the spot after the fire broke out. Viral visuals from the site showed smoke billowing out from the Serum Institute facility. A fire brigade official said the cause of the fire is yet to be ascertained. A National Disaster Response Force (NDRF) team was rushed to the spot, an official said. Pune Police Commissioner Amitabh Gupta said all the people trapped inside the building where the fire broke out have been evacuated. Chief Fire Officer Prashant Ranpise said cooling work has commenced at the spot. Nobody was injured in the fire, he added. Fifteen water tankers were pressed into action and the fire was brought under control around 4.30 pm, he said. "The cause of the fire is yet to be ascertained. Furniture, wiring, cabins were gutted. No major machinery or instruments were stored on the floors where the fire broke out," he said. "I have taken information from the Pune Municipal Corporation about the incident and an instruction has been given to carry out a detailed probe into the incident," Ajit Pawar said. Chief Minister Uddhav Thackeray has asked the state machinery to ensure that the fire is brought under control, his office tweeted. He is in touch with the Pune Municipal Commissioner, the CMO added.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-397
21-01-2021||India||Gambhir donates Rs 1 crore for Ram temple construction||BJP MP Gautam Gambhir has donated Rs one crore for construction of Ram temple in Ayodhya. The cricketer-turned-politician said the donation was made by him and his family for a "glorious" temple in Ayodhya that is the dream of all Indians. "A glorious Ram temple has been the dream of all Indians. Finally, this long standing issue has been put to rest. This will pave the way for unity and tranquillity. A small contribution from me and my family has been made in this endeavour," the east Delhi MP said in a statement. The Delhi BJP has launched a campaign for collection of donations through coupons across the city, said party leaders. "Coupons of Rs 10, 100 and 1000 will be used for collection of donations from as many households as possible," said Kuljeet Chahal, Delhi BJP general secretary and convener of the campaign. Contributions over Rs 1000 will be made through cheques. There are many persons who have their sentiments deeply associated with the Ram temple and who are willing to contribute large sums of one crore or more, he said. Various saffron outfits including the RSS, VHP and others will also participate in the campaign for collecting contributions from people. A door-to-door campaign will be started for collection of donations through coupons from February 1, Chahal said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-397
21-01-2021||India||Vaccination drive going well, says Amit Shah||The Indian economy is undergoing a "V-shaped recovery" and the world is watching the same in surprise, Union Home Minister Amit Shah said on Thursday. Shah, one of the senior-most members of the cabinet, also said the COVID-19 vaccination drive is progressing well and once everyone is vaccinated, "we will attain victory over the pandemic". He made the comment while joining through video- conference the inauguration of a four-lane over-bridge in Shilaj here by Gujarat Deputy Chief Minister Nitin Patel. "Economies of all countries in the world were affected due to the coronavirus. But, the world is surprised and watching the V-shaped recovery of the Indian economy," Shah said. The GDP contracted by 23.9 per cent in the June 2020 quarter due to the lockdown, and the contraction narrowed down to 7.5 per cent in the September quarter as compared to the same in the year-ago period, as the unlock process began. The demand situation has shown further improvement in the December quarter which witnessed the festivities, with several high-frequency indicators illustrating the same. The Union government now expects the GDP to close FY21 with a contraction of 7.7 per cent. Shah also said that infrastructure development carried out under the Narendra Modi regime in the last six years exceeds that done by governments in the 20 years preceding the NDA government. "The work done in the infrastructure sector in last six years is equivalent to that done in 20 years of previous governments," he said. He listed various infrastructure works like Metro lines, bullet train and other projects taken up by the Centre. He said Prime Minister Narendra Modi's government is working hard to develop infrastructure in the country, be it rural or urban areas. The Modi government has provided electricity to all villages of the country, road connectivity, and has provided one bank account to every family. "Ten crore families, or 30 crore people, in India, were not having their own houses, and the way construction of houses for low-income groups is going on, we are confident that every family will get a home by 2022," Shah said. "Another big project that we have taken up is providing piped water to every household by 2022," he said. Shah said the government has also taken up the work of removal of one lakh railway crossings on national and state highways by building over-bridges or under-bridges on them. The work on around 5,000 such crossings has been completed and it is currently on in 8,000 other places, he said. "The Shilaj bridge (inaugurated here on Thursday) is one such among the one lakh bridges (being built) on the railway crossings," he said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-397
21-01-2021||India||Rs 5 lakh for families of farmers who died during farm protests ||A compensation of Rs 5 lakh each has been given to the families of four farmers from Ludhiana who lost their lives while participating in the ongoing protest against the Centre's agricultural reforms, a senior officer said on Thursday. Braving cold weather conditions and rain, thousands of farmers, mainly from Punjab, Haryana and western Uttar Pradesh, are protesting at various border points of Delhi for over a month now against the three farm laws. Several farmers participating in the agitation have died due to different reasons including heart attack and road accidents. On the directions of Punjab Chief Minister Amarinder Singh, Rs 5 lakh compensation is being provided to the families of farmers who unfortunately lost their lives during the protest against the Centre's farm laws, said Ludhiana Deputy Commissioner Varinder Kumar Sharma. Till date, he said, five farmers from Ludhiana district have lost their lives while participating in the agitation. While Rs 5 lakh compensation has already been provided to families of four farmers from the Chief Minister's Relief Fund, the case of the fifth farmer is under process, he added. Farmer groups have alleged the three farm laws will end the minimum support price (MSP) and mandi procurement systems and leave the farmers at the mercy of big corporates, even as the government has rejected these apprehensions as misplaced. The farmers have refused to end their agitation till these laws are repealed.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-398
21-01-2021||India||Meeting between farmers and Delhi police on tractor rally remains inconclusive||The second round of meeting between the police and farmer unions regarding the proposed January 26 tractor rally by them remained inconclusive on Thursday as the farmers stuck to their demand of taking out the rally on Delhi's busy Outer Ring Road. Talking to reporters after the meeting, Swaraj Abhiyan leader Yogendra Yadav said the police wanted the farmer leaders to take out their tractor rally outside the national capital. "We will do our parade peacefully inside Delhi. They wanted us to hold the tractor rally outside Delhi, which is not possible," Yadav, who is actively participating in the ongoing agitation against the Centre's new farm laws, said. Sources said police officers tried to convince the protesting farm unions to hold their tractor rally on the Kundli-Manesar-Palwal (KMP) Expressway instead of the Outer Ring Road, but in vain. A farmer leader, who attended the meeting with the police, said, "The government wants us to take out our rally outside Delhi, but we want to hold it inside Delhi. No decision was taken in today's meeting." Joint Commissioner of Police (Northern Range) S S Yadav coordinated the meeting held at Mantram Resort near the Singhu border. The meeting was also attended by Special Commissioner (Law and Order-Western Zone) Sanjay Singh, Special Commissioner of Police (Intelligence) Dependra Pathak and other senior officers from Delhi, Haryana and Uttar Pradesh police. A similar meeting was held on Wednesday between the union leaders and officers of Delhi, Uttar Pradesh and Haryana police at Vigyan Bhawan to discuss the route and arrangements of the proposed rally on January 26. However, the farmer unions had rejected a suggestion by the police officers to hold the rally on the Kundli-Manesar-Palwal Expressway instead of Delhi's busy Outer Ring Road, sources said. Thousands of farmers, mostly from Punjab and Haryana, have been protesting at several Delhi border points against the Centre's new agriculture laws for nearly two months. The unions representing the farmers have begun holding tractor rallies at villages in Punjab to mobilise people for the demonstration on Republic Day. The farmers are vehemently opposing the Farmers (Empowerment and Protection) Agreement of Price Assurance and Farm Services Act, 2020; the Farmers Produce Trade and Commerce (Promotion and Facilitation) Act, 2020; and the Essential Commodities (Amendment) Act 2020. Enacted in September last year, the three laws have been projected by the Centre as major reforms in the agriculture sector that will remove middlemen and allow farmers to sell their produce anywhere in the country. However, the protesting farmers have expressed their apprehension that the new laws would pave the way for eliminating the safety cushion of MSP (minimum support price) and do away with the "mandi" (wholesale market) system, leaving them at the mercy of big corporates.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-398
21-01-2021||India||Farmers meeting with Delhi police on tractor rally underway||A meeting is underway between the Delhi Police and farmer unions regarding the proposed tractor rally by them on Republic Day, officials said. Joint Commissioner of Police (Northern Range) S S Yadav is coordinating the meeting which is being held at Mantram Resort near the Singhu border, they said. A similar meeting was held on Wednesday between the union leaders and officers of Delhi, Uttar Pradesh and Haryana police at Vigyan Bhawan to discuss the route and arrangements of the proposed rally on January 26. However, the farmer unions had rejected a suggestion by the police officers to hold the rally on the Kundli-Manesar-Palwal Expressway instead of Delhi's busy Outer Ring Road, sources said. Thousands of farmers, mostly from Punjab and Haryana, have been protesting at several Delhi border points against the Centre's new agriculture laws for nearly two months. The unions representing the farmers have begun holding tractor rallies at villages in Punjab to mobilise people for the demonstration on Republic Day. The farmers are vehemently opposing the Farmers (Empowerment and Protection) Agreement of Price Assurance and Farm Services Act, 2020; the Farmers Produce Trade and Commerce (Promotion and Facilitation) Act, 2020; and the Essential Commodities (Amendment) Act 2020. Enacted in September last year, the three laws have been projected by the Centre as major reforms in the agriculture sector that will remove middlemen and allow farmers to sell their produce anywhere in the country. However, the protesting farmers have expressed their apprehension that the new laws would pave the way for eliminating the safety cushion of MSP (minimum support price) and do away with the "mandi" (wholesale market) system, leaving them at the mercy of big corporates.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-398
21-01-2021||India||India's Covid tally breaches 1.06 crore mark||India's Covid-19 caseload crossed 1.06 crore with 15,223 new infections being reported in a day, while the recoveries have surged to 1,02,65,706, according to the Union Health Ministry data updated on Thursday. The total cases have increased to 1,06,10,883. The death toll mounted to 1,52,869 with 151 daily new fatalities, the data updated at 8 am showed. The number of people who have recuperated from the disease surged to 1,02,65,706 pushing the national COVID-19 recovery rate of 96.75 per cent. The Covid-19 case fatality rate stands at 1.44 per cent. The Covid-19 active caseload remained below 2 lakh. There are 1,92,308 active coronavirus infections in the country which comprises 1.81 per cent of the total caseload, the data stated. India's Covid-19 tally had crossed the 20-lakh mark on August 7, 30 lakh on August 23, 40 lakh on September 5 and 50 lakh on September 16. It went past 60 lakh on September 28, 70 lakh on October 11, crossed 80 lakh on October 29, 90 lakh on November 20 and surpassed the one-crore mark on December 19. According to the ICMR, 18,93,47,782 samples have been tested up to January 20 with 7,80,835 samples being tested on Wednesday. The 151 new fatalities include 59 from Maharashtra, 18 from Kerala, 10 each from Delhi and Chhattisgarh. A total of 152869 deaths have been reported so far in the country including 50,582 from Maharashtra followed by 12,290 from Tamil Nadu, 12,185 from Karnataka, 10,774 from Delhi, 10,080 from West Bengal, 8,591 from Uttar Pradesh and, 7,142 from Andhra Pradesh. The health ministry stressed that more than 70 per cent of the deaths occurred due to comorbidities. "Our figures are being reconciled with the Indian Council of Medical Research," the ministry said on its website, adding that state-wise distribution of figures is subject to further verification and reconciliation.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-398
21-01-2021||India||Delhi's minimum temperature likely to increase over next two days||Delhi's minimum temperature settled at 7.4 degrees Celsius on Thursday and is likely to increase slightly over the next two days under the influence of a fresh Western Disturbance, the India Meteorological Department (IMD) said. "A fresh Western Disturbance will start affecting the Western Himalayan region Friday onwards. As a result, the minimum temperature in Delhi is likely to increase slightly," an IMD official said. The Western Disturbance will lead to widespread snowfall in the upper hills of the Western Himalayas. Cold, dry winds from the snow-capped mountains will bring the mercury down to 4 degrees Celsius by Monday, he said. The official said the city's air quality is predicted to improve slightly as the wind speed picks up. The air quality index stood at 304 at 9 am. The city's 24-hour AQI was 283 on Wednesday, 404 on Tuesday, 372 on Monday and 347 on Sunday. An AQI between zero and 50 is considered good, 51 and 100 satisfactory, 101 and 200 moderate, 201 and 300 poor, 301 and 400 very poor, and 401 and 500 severe. Delhi has already registered six severe air quality days this month.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-398
21-01-2021||India||Sensex jumps over 300 points to breach 50,000-mark for first time||Equity benchmark Sensex rallied over 300 points to hit the 50,000-mark for the first time ever in early trade on Thursday on strong gains in index majors Reliance Industries, Bajaj Finance and ICICI Bank amid positive global cues. After touching a lifetime high of 50,126.73, the 30-share BSE index was trading 300.09 points or 0.60 per cent higher at 50,092.21 in opening deals. Similarly, the broader NSE Nifty surged 85.40 points or 0.58 per cent to trade at 14,730.10. It too scaled its highest level of 14,738.30 in early trade. Bajaj Fiserv was the top gainer in the Sensex pack, rising around 4 per cent, followed by Bajaj Finance, Reliance Industries, IndusInd Bank and Axis Bank. On the other hand, TCS and HDFC twins were the laggards. In the previous session, the Sensex had advanced by 393.83 or 0.80 per cent to close at its fresh record of 49,792.12, and the Nifty had jumped 123.55 points or 0.85 per cent to settle at a lifetime high of 14,644.70. Foreign portfolio investors (FPIs) were net buyers in the capital market as they purchased shares worth Rs 2,289.05 crore on Wednesday, as per exchange data. According to Binod Modi Head-Strategy at Reliance Securities, domestic equities look to be good at the moment given positive global cues. We believe underlying strength of the market remains intact given continued recovery in key economic data and expectations of sustained recovery in corporate earnings. Further, ongoing vaccination drive and likely opening-up of the economy at full scale augur well for the economy and equities. Additionally, favourable monetary policies of global central bankers, weak dollar and large fiscal stimulus in the US are expected to ensure sustain FPIs flow in domestic equities, he said. US equities finished at record highs on Wednesday after Joe Biden was sworn in as the President of the United States and he vowed to take all necessary measures to bring back the US economy on track. Elsewhere in Asia, bourses in Shanghai, Hong Kong, Seoul and Tokyo were trading with significant gains in mid-session deals. Meanwhile, the global oil benchmark Brent crude was trading 0.30 per cent higher at USD 55.91 per barrel.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-398
21-01-2021||India||Partho-Arnab chats: Will judiciary ignore reference to 'buy' a judge, asks Khurshid||Will the judiciary turn a blind eye or set an example to restore the faith in judiciary, former law minister Salman Khurshid asked on Wednesday around the same time the Chief Justice of India lamented the tendency to cast aspersions on the judiciary. Chief Justice S.A. Bobde was decrying the culture that branded the members of a panel the Supreme Court had appointed to talk to the protesting farmers. Khurshid was referring to an intriguing entry in the purported chats between Republic TV promoter Arnab Goswami and a rating agency boss. The former law minister and several of his Congress colleagues asked whether the judiciary would ignore the reference to “buy” a judge or act against those denting people’s faith in the justice delivery system. From a series of messages on May 24, 2017, one attributed to Partho Dasgupta, then chief executive of the rating agency BARC, talks about being unable to afford to lose an unnamed case. It then says that a well-known lawyer would go “all out to nail” Goswami, adding “wonder if he is doing some setting tonight… with the judge”. The purported reply from Goswami says the lawyer cannot do so because another lawyer “is aggressive”. Dasgupta replies: “But him na… that’s why I appointed him (the second lawyer).” The next two messages attributed to Dasgupta read: “Buy… the judge.” The messages do not show Goswami, known for exploding in outrage in his studio at the faintest hint of moral turpitude, chiding Dasgupta or even demurring with him. Goswami merely says: “Just one point needs to be made in the note.” The casual manner in which the conversation unfolds makes it appear as though the most routine matter was being discussed. So far, in spite of multiple responses from Goswami, he has not denied the content of the chats. It is not clear which case Dasgupta and Goswami were discussing. Around the time the conversation took place, Goswami’s channel and another media house were locked in a case. The suggestion in the chat to “buy the judge” was raised at a news conference on Wednesday by former ministers from the Manmohan Singh government who had been part of the cabinet committee on security -- A.K. Antony, Sushil Kumar Shinde and Salman Khurshid -- alongside Rajya Sabha leader of the Opposition Ghulam Nabi Azad and Congress spokesperson Pawan Khera. “The comments (on the judiciary) are painful and raise some questions,” Khurshid, a former law minister, said. He clarified: “We are not saying any judge may have been influenced. But anybody having the audacity to even talk about buying a judge is completely unacceptable.” Khurshid asked several pertinent questions. “Have there been attempts to pressure or influence the judiciary? Have they succeeded in extracting a wrong judgment using those illegal tactics? There is a mention about a meeting with the law minister. I have been a law minister and I know what the responsibility of a law minister is. If the law minister is brought into the loop on something of this nature, it will be extremely unfortunate.” The former minister added: “I have no qualms in saying this that the BJP has let loose people whose job, mandate is to influence judges. Question is, what would the judges do? They react, rightly so, to irresponsible reportage with processes of contempt. Will the judiciary turn a blind eye or set an example to restore the faith in judiciary? “We stand with the judiciary to ensure it remains above the dirty politics that has been unleashed by these people.... What will be left of democracy if judges are on sale?” The Congress leaders asked Prime Minister Narendra Modi to come clean on the issues of national security as well as corruption and lobbying at the highest levels of the government that the WhatsApp messages have raised. One of the purported messages from Goswami to Dasgupta, dated February 23, 2019, appears to reveal advance knowledge of the sweep of the February 26 Balakot airstrike while implying that one of the government’s objectives behind the operation was to gain popularity before the general election. On the messages relating to the Balakot airstrike, former defence minister Antony said: “No military officer will leak such sensitive information. We have to find out who in the government indulged in this treason. The government must order a proper enquiry and punish the guilty. This should not be about party politics, this is an anti-national act.” Former home minister Shinde referred to a purported message from Goswami to Dasgupta, sent just hours after the February 14, 2019, Pulwama attack that killed 40 CRPF jawans, that gloats about the “only channel with a ground presence” and says: “This attack we have won like crazy.” Shinde said that celebrating the martyrdom of 40 CRPF jawans was a blot on journalism. In a joint statement, these leaders said: “The leaked chats show Arnab Goswami gleefully informing Partho Dasgupta about the deadly terror attack in Pulwama. On February 23, three days before the Balakot strikes, this lackey journalist was not only in unauthorised possession of top secrets of defence operations, he also further disseminated these secrets to another individual on a social media platform.” It added: “In a shameful exchange, it is mentioned ‘It is good for big man in this season’. ‘He will sweep polls then’. Can the martyrdom of 40 Indian soldiers be a matter of victory for any Indian? “Was Arnab controlling the government or was the government controlling him? Both these situations are dangerous for our democracy. Never before has India’s national security been so completely compromised. Never before has the office of the Prime Minister, office of the home minister, office of the law minister, office of the information and broadcasting minister been so brazenly compromised. Never before did our judiciary come under such an attack. Do the Prime Minister, home minister, in fact the entire government, have any moral, political, constitutional right to continue in office after such damning revelations?”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-398
21-01-2021||India||Centre offers to suspend farm laws; unions to talk||The Centre on Wednesday offered to submit an undertaking in the Supreme Court to suspend the implementation of the three new farm laws for one to one-and-a-half years in a move that would be just short of the repeal that the Samyukta Kisan Morcha (SKM) has been demanding. Conscious that the government was blinking only because it wants to somehow stop the tractor rally that the farmers are preparing for as part of their kisan parade on Republic Day, the 40 unions spearheading the talks on behalf of the SKM remained non-committal. They said they did not have the authority to take a decision without consulting all the 400-plus unions in the SKM. “It is a slightly positive development,” Hannan Mollah of the All India Kisan Sabha said, adding that the SKM will meet on Thursday and take a call. The Punjab unions will meet in the morning, following which the larger SKM will meet. The All India Kisan Sangharsh Coordination Committee, which gave the Dilli Chalo call that brought farmers to Delhi’s borders on November 26, is meeting on Wednesday night itself. Speaking to reporters after the 10th meeting with the farmers, Union agriculture minister Narendra Singh Tomar said: “During the discussions, we said the government was ready to put on hold the farm laws for one or one and a half years. I am happy that the farmer unions have taken this very seriously and said that they would consider it tomorrow (Thursday) and convey their decision on Friday.” It will be a “victory for Indian democracy” the day the farmers’ agitation ends, the minister added. The farmers did concede that it was a positive move on the part of the government which has till now only been offering amendments, repeating the offer to make more and bigger changes in the law at Wednesday’s meeting also. With the Supreme Court refusing to step in to stop the kisan parade, the government appears to have agreed to climb down further but farmer unions are wary about the sincerity of the offer, even if it is in writing before the court. “They clearly want to defuse the situation that is building up before January 26, so they made this offer. And, they wanted us to decide in a hurry, even offering us a separate room in Vigyan Bhavan to discuss among ourselves and take a decision today itself, and then call off the kisan parade. We told them that this is not how we function, and that the movement works on the basis of collective decision-making. So, it was agreed that we will return on Friday with our response,” said one union leader. Refusing to comment on whether anyone in the 40 present at the meeting warmed up to the proposal, Darshan Pal of the Krantikari Kisan Union said it might have some takers if the government agreed to put the farm laws on hold for five years. Kavita Kuruganti of the Mahila Kisan Adhikaar Manch said the government proposed that the laws could be kept in abeyance for one to one and a half years but added that it could be a “mutually agreed upon time”, indicating that the duration could be longer. “To show they (the government) are serious and sincere about the suspension idea, they are willing to do this through an undertaking in the Supreme Court. Along with it, they are talking about forming a committee that will then give its recommendations on the future of these laws, whether they should be amended or repealed,” Kavita said, adding that the composition and terms of reference of the committee were not discussed. Mollah said the talks began with both sides sticking to their guns and it was only towards the end that the government softened its position. Wednesday’s meeting saw the farmers again raise the issue of notices being sent by the National Investigation Agency to people supporting their movement to scare them away and dissuade others from joining the agitation. This was raised at the last meeting, too, but still there have been instances of people, including members of the Khalsa Aid, getting notices. Agriculture minister Tomar told the union leaders that this was being stopped now, Darshan Pal told The Telegraph.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-398
21-01-2021||India||Low turnout dogs vaccine campaign||Poor turnouts have dogged India’s Covid-19 vaccination campaign that has inoculated nearly 787,000 healthcare workers, but this is little more than half of the targeted beneficiaries to be covered in the five days since its start. The Union health ministry said 786,842 people had been vaccinated till 6pm on Wednesday through 14,119 vaccination sessions since January 16, but the ministry’s guidelines had proposed 100 beneficiaries per session — or over 1.41 million should have received the vaccinations by now. Twenty states organised vaccination sessions on Wednesday through around 2,400 sites which under the guidelines should have vaccinated around 240,000 people, but the actual number of vaccinations were 112,007 up to 6pm — or 45 per cent of the ideal number. Health officials and sections of potential beneficiaries believe that vaccine hesitancy is contributing to the lower-than-expected turnouts, particularly among sections of doctors who have questioned the use of one vaccine without proven efficacy data. The campaign is relying on two vaccines — Covishield, the AstraZeneca-Oxford product made in India by the Serum Institute of India, and Covaxin, a homegrown vaccine from Bharat Biotech. Some doctors have expressed hesitance over Covaxin because its efficacy is still under evaluation. But even healthcare workers expected to receive Covishield have failed to turn up. At the King Edward Memorial Hospital, Mumbai, on Tuesday, the campaign staff had to invite healthcare workers who were not scheduled to take the vaccine that day because those on the list did not arrive. Amid the poor turnouts, the Centre has tweaked the digital platform deployed for the campaign to enable it to accept additional, non-scheduled beneficiaries from a list of pre-registered beneficiaries who may not be scheduled for a specific day. “This is being done to allow maximum possible number of beneficiaries per session and (to achieve) better coverage,” a health official said on Wednesday. Campaign staff may search the database of pre-registered beneficiaries through the mobile numbers and invite them to take the vaccines. Medical experts are concerned about the possible impacts of poor turnouts among healthcare workers on the campaign’s subsequent rounds when vaccines would be offered to frontline workers, people above 50 years of age and those below 50 with chronic underlying health disorders. Health officials are hoping the vaccination campaign would help accelerate India’s pace towards herd immunity, a threshold at which so many people are protected through either vaccinations or natural infections that the epidemic vanishes. “The faster more and more people are vaccinated, the closer India will move towards herd immunity,” said a senior community medicine specialist. Experts believe a significant proportion of the population is already protected, albeit even if temporarily, through natural infections. Studies have shown that protective antibodies from natural infection last six to eight months or longer. Scientists also believe other arms of the immune system also protect people from reinfections. The health ministry had till Wednesday recorded four deaths among over 786,000 people who have received the vaccines since Saturday but asserted that none of them were related to the vaccination. A senior health official said the deaths had been recorded as part of a rigorous process to track every adverse event following immunisation (AEFI) but they have no connection with the vaccination. The official said post-mortem reports had shown that a person died at Moradabad in Uttar Pradesh from cardio-pulmonary disease, and two persons — one each at Bellary and Shivamoga in Karnataka died from heart attacks. A post-mortem report from a death in Telangana is awaited, he said. An expert said the deaths appeared to be part of background death rates in all populations. “There is a background death rate in any population. When we carefully track a very large number of people, in this campaign hundreds of thousands of people, over many days, there would be deaths from different causes,” said Santanu Tripathi, a senior clinical pharmacologist formerly with Calcutta’s School of Tropical Medicine. “The AEFI monitoring mechanism is recording them.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-398
21-01-2021||India||Farmers protest: SC keeps off Republic Day tractor rally ||The Supreme Court on Wednesday made the Centre withdraw its application seeking a stay on the proposed tractor rally by farmers on January 26 after the Republic Day parade, saying “we consider it improper for us to allow or disallow any rally”. “You (the government) are the executive. You have authority to take whatever action through police. You have powers to act on law and order, we won’t intervene,” Chief Justice of India S.A. Bobde told attorney-general K.K. Venugopal and solicitor-general Tushar Mehta, appearing for the Union government. “It is highly inappropriate for the court to act as a first authority to allow or disallow protesters. We can allow you to withdraw the application. You are the executive and have the power to look into this. It’s an issue of law and order and of the police,” the CJI said. The court was dealing with an application filed by Delhi police, which reports to the Centre, seeking a stay on the proposed rally, claiming that Khalistani elements had infiltrated the protests and would create large-scale disturbance during the Republic Day parade. The bench, also having Justices A.S. Bopanna and V. Ramasubramanian, also turned down Mehta’s request that the court allow the Delhi police application till January 25, review the situation and thereafter pass an order. Finally, the government withdrew the application. Informed by senior lawyers Dushyant Dave and Prashant Bhushan, representing eight farmer unions, that the unions were not willing to appear before the court-appointed committee on the three laws, the Chief Justice said: “Please see what solution can be found. In this case, just saying not appearing before the committee will not help. You have to counsel the parties to bring about peace.” Bhushan: “Yes I have advised them there should be peace. The farmers’ unions say they don’t want any amendments now. They want only repeal. They say no discussions was held on the farm bills.” CJI Bobde: “In a democracy, other than repeal, the court can set aside a law and the court is seized of this. The law is not in force at the moment.” Bhushan: “They are trying to put democratic pressure. They fear that if they get up and go away since the laws are not in force, then later if courts come to the conclusion that the laws are constitutional and interim orders are withdrawn, then what happens. That’s why they are apprehensive.” (The Supreme Court had earlier passed an interim order putting the farm laws on hold.) CJI Bobde: “If we uphold the farmers’ bills, then you can start the agitation. But peace has to be maintained.” Bhushan: “Farmers only want to celebrate Republic Day on the Outer Ring Road. No attempt to destroy peace (will be made).” CJI Bobde: “See that your clients assure the citizens of Delhi complete peace.” The CJI later asked the attorney-general and Bhushan to ensure peace in the capital. The court will take up the matter again after eight weeks.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-398
21-01-2021||India||Aadhaar ruling review rejected||Justice D.Y. Chandrachud of the Supreme Court on Wednesday sought reference to a seven-judge bench the Centre’s decision to pass the Aadhaar Act in 2015, on the ground that “it would have serious consequences — not just for judicial discipline, but also for the ends of justice”. Justice Chandrachud disagreed with the majority opinion of four other judges on the bench who dismissed a batch of petitions seeking review of the 2018 judgment by another constitution bench that had upheld the validity of the Act. Dissenting judge Justice Chandrachud differed with the view on the ground that the Aadhaar Bill could not have been passed by Parliament without the approval of Rajya Sabha since it was not a “money bill”.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-399
21-01-2021||India|| Congress asks media to introspect||The Congress on Wednesday asked the media to introspect while saying WhatsApp messages attributed to Republic TV managing director Arnab Goswami suggested he had easy access to the Prime Minister and home minister and used it to gain business favours and influence policy. It also accused Goswami of conspiring to manipulate TV ratings and speaking insensitively about a dying Union minister. Asserting that the Congress does not consider Goswami a journalist, party spokesperson Pawan Khera said a nexus between a media lobby and the government was not good for democracy. “Laanat hai aisi journalism par (Shame on such journalism). Lobbying for business favours, fixing rivals, influencing policies, breaking the society using breaking news — will the media do some introspection?” he said. Khera said the purported conversations between Goswami and Partho Dasgupta, ex-CEO of TV ratings agency BARC, showed how close Goswami was to Narendra Modi and Amit Shah and how casually he mentioned them as though they were friends. “The confidence with which Arnab flaunts his proximity to the Prime Minister and his office is shocking. From the chats it appears that Arnab shared a very comfortable access to the Prime Minister and secured his intervention in overcoming business troubles and fixing rivals,” Khera said. “Why was the Prime Minister allowing Arnab such friendly access to himself and his office? Why was Arnab allowed to actively lobby with the Prime Minister and his office? What was the quid pro quo? “From these chats it is clear that Arnab not only had direct access to one of the most powerful leaders of the ruling party, then party president Amit Shah, he also took ratings agency boss Partho Dasgupta to meet him. Arnab was actively securing Shah’s intervention to influence policy and controlling the Telecom Regulatory Authority of India.” Khera asked: “How can the president of the party so brazenly interfere in policy matters to help a media house at the expense of others? Why was Shah interfering in the functioning of a supposedly autonomous authority called the Trai? What was Arnab’s hold on Shah?” Senior Congress leader Salman Khurshid cited references to Arun Jaitley in the messages, written shortly before the death of the severely ill former finance minister and senior lawyer. “Jaitley was widely respected both in the Bar and Parliament. The kind of conversation about him is deeply saddening. If this is how they treat their own, how will they treat ordinary citizens?” he said. Arnab had reportedly said: “Jaitley is stretching it.” A Congress statement cited corruption charges against Goswami’s channel. “In 2017, Arnab Goswami’s channel and another channel bypassed the auction system put in place by Prasar Bharati to gain viewership on DD Free Dish. The two channels did not pay the fee to Doordarshan to book slots in the free DTH service with the help of Dish TV, a private DTH service. This violation cost crores of rupees to the public exchequer. “The chats tell us that the then information and broadcasting minister Rajyavardhan Singh Rathore allegedly informed Arnab that he was keeping aside a complaint that was received by his department against Goswami’s channel.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-399
21-01-2021||India||BJP fails to rise to Arun Jaitley’s defence||Not one BJP leader has come forward to defend Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s “dear friend” and late finance minister Arun Jaitley, termed the “biggest failure” in a purported WhatsApp chat involving Republic TV managing director Arnab Goswami. An April 2019 WhatsApp message attributed to Partho Dasgupta, then CEO of TV ratings agency BARC, terms the then ailing Jaitley the “biggest failure” of the government, and Goswami purportedly writes back: “That I agree totally.” When Jaitley died of cancer four months later, Modi declared from the middle of a foreign tour: “I can’t imagine that I am here in Bahrain while my dear friend Arun Jaitley is no more.” The same day — August 24, 2019 — the Prime Minister also tweeted: “With the demise of Arun Jaitley Ji, I have lost a valued friend, whom I have had the honour of knowing for decades. His insight on issues and nuanced understanding of matters had very few parallels…. We will miss him!” Just five days before that, on August 19, 2019, a purported WhatsApp message from Goswami to Dasgupta had said: “Jaitley stretching it. PMO doesn’t know what to do. PM leaving on Wednesday for France.” Jaitley was then battling for his life. Dasgupta is purported to have asked: “So hasn’t died yet?” Goswami’s purported reply: “Maintaining him. I expect something by evening. One of my meetings in Delhi this week gets pushed because of this.” So far, the content of the chats has not been denied. Last month home minister Amit Shah unveiled a statue to Jaitley at the Feroz Shah Kotla in Delhi, now renamed Arun Jaitley Stadium, and said his departed colleague had “served the nation with passion and devotion”. On December 28, 2020, Modi tweeted: “Remembering my friend, Arun Jaitley Ji on his birth anniversary…. He worked tirelessly for India’s progress.” However, BJP leaders have not felt obliged to challenge the belittling of Jaitley in the WhatsApp chat or condemn the insensitive comments made when he was battling death, maintaining silence in public and arguing in private that the controversy is a “TRP war between two channels” not worth according importance to. Information and broadcasting minister Prakash Javadekar too comes under fire in the purported chats between Dasgupta and Goswami. A message attributed to Dasgupta describes Javadekar as “useless” while one attributed to Goswami expresses preference for Smriti Irani in Javadekar’s place. The BJP has not reacted to this, either. Javadekar, fielded on Tuesday to address the media and attack Rahul Gandhi, was asked about the messages but refused to react, saying the subject had nothing to do with his news conference. Many in the BJP believe that Goswami, known to have had easy access to Modi and Shah, was expressing what those in the power corridors genuinely felt about Jaitley at the time. It was widely speculated that Modi and Shah wanted Jaitley out of the finance ministry but couldn’t act on the desire since both had accepted his services as a lawyer. Jaitley had defended Modi in Gujarat riot cases and Shah in the Sohrabuddin fake encounter case. Modi-Shah’s alleged intent was bared when Jaitley underwent a kidney transplant in May 2018. Piyush Goyal was “temporarily assigned” additional charge of the finance ministry while Jaitley was designated “minister without portfolio”. BJP parliamentarian Subramanian Swamy had at the time flagged how the Prime Minister’s official website said Goyal was the finance minister while the finance ministry’s website continued to accord that distinction to Jaitley. It was Nirmala Sitharaman and not Goyal, though, who eventually succeeded Jaitley as full-time finance minister. BJP insiders say Jaitley had long been promoting Sitharaman and may have expressed a dying wish saying she be given the finance portfolio. Sitharaman, who termed Jaitley a “visionary leader” while presenting the 2020 budget, too has chosen not to react to the allegation that the former finance minister was “the biggest failure”.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-399
21-01-2021||India||Unions seek amendments in labour laws||Ten central trade unions on Wednesday met government representatives and demanded the four new labour laws be put on hold and consultations be held with them towards their amendment. They described the meetings convened by the government on framing of the rules for these laws — Wednesday witnessed the last round — as a “farce” and a “camouflage” to hide the lack of consultations before the bills were passed. A labour ministry official, however, said the rules would be finalised by the end of this month, implying the unions’ protests would have little impact. The workers fear the new laws would facilitate a hire-and-fire policy, longer working hours and the continuation of poor pay. They accuse the government of rushing with the rules, after unilaterally pushing through the laws, under pressure from corporate houses and employers’ organisations. Among the 10 organisations that categorically opposed the four laws were the Congress-affiliated Intuc, CPI labour arm Aituc and CPM-backed Citu. The 10 of them handed over a joint letter to labour minister Santosh Gangwar criticising the government for ignoring their suggestions before pushing the bills through. Three other trade union bodies also attended the meeting and made recommendations about improving the laws but did not oppose them full-scale. These were the RSS trade union wing Bharatiya Mazdoor Sangh, the National Front of Indian Trade Unions, and a pro-government faction of the Trade Union Coordination Centre. The government had got the Code on Wages passed in 2019 and the remaining three laws in the last session of Parliament. The Code on Occupational Safety, Health and Working Conditions, Code of Industrial Relations, and the Code on Social Security were passed in the Rajya Sabha last September amid a House boycott by major Opposition parties on another issue. “The government did not accept any of our suggestions when the bills were prepared and got the bills passed in the Rajya Sabha in an hour without proper discussion,” Ashok Singh of Intuc said. Aituc secretary Amarjeet Kaur echoed him. In their letter, the workers’ bodies accused the government of being uninterested about bipartite or tripartite discussions in accordance with the International labour Organisation conventions. They complained that no meetings of the Indian Labour Conference had been held since 2015. The government is expected to hold the meetings once in two or three years. “The central trade unions demand that all the four codes should be put on hold and then discussions should start with the central trade unions on each of the labour codes afresh in the true spirit of bipartite and tripartite consultations. We do not accept this meeting as consultation but a farce to camouflage consultations,” the letter said. The BMS objected to the exclusion of contract labourers from the ambit of the labour codes, which exempt labour contractors hiring up to 50 workers in particular establishments from implementing the measures on health, safety and social security. Some of the central trade unions have already aligned themselves with the farmers’ agitation against the new farm laws, joining them on Delhi’s borders with their own placards protesting the labour codes.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-399
21-01-2021||India||Delhi Union of Journalists condemn libel arrest warrant on scribe||The Delhi Union of Journalists on Wednesday condemned the arrest warrant issued by a Gujarat court against senior journalist Paranjoy Guha Thakurta in a defamation suit filed by the Adani group. In a statement the Delhi Union of Journalists expressed shock that a Kutch court has issued an arrest warrant against Guha Thakurta for alleged defamation of the Adani group in an article published in 2017 that said the Narendra Modi government had tweaked rules relating to a special economic zone which gave the company a “Rs 500-crore bonanza”. Condemning the arrest warrant, the union said: “Ironically, the Adani group has withdrawn its charges against the publishers of the article and the co-authors but not Guha Thakurta. In 2017 the article that stirred controversy was published by the Economic & Political Weekly (EPW). “It alleged that the government of India had tweaked rules of the special economic zone to enable Adani Power Limited to get duty drawback of Rs 500 crore from the government. The Adani group sent a notice to the publisher, threatening legal action. The EPW’s publisher, the Sameeksha Trust, pulled down the article and its editor Guha Thakurta resigned in protest.” In June 2017, the statement said, The Wire news portal republished the article with permission from the EPW. “The Adani group then filed a suit on The Wire and the co-authors of the article…. In May 2019 a Gujarat court ordered the publishers to remove one sentence and one word from the article. The Wire complied and the defamation suit was rejected by the court,” the statement said. Subsequently, the Adani group withdrew the case against The Wire and the co-authors. “In the circumstances it is strange that another court should have ordered the arrest of Guha Thakurta.” The statement said: “The Delhi Union of Journalists severely condemns the move to arrest a leading journalist. We have long demanded decriminalisation of the defamation law that is a serious threat to media freedoms. We urge the higher judiciary to strike down the criminal defamation law at the earliest.” Guha Thakurta could not be contacted. The Wire said in a statement issued on Wednesday: “Paranjoy Guha Thakurta and two other authors wrote an article for the Economic and Political Weekly in 2017 on the Adani group, which was republished subsequently by The Wire. “While the Adani group had initiated both civil and criminal defamation against the three authors and The Wire in 2017, the proceedings against The Wire and its editors were unconditionally withdrawn in 2019, as were those against two of the three authors of the article. We are dismayed to see that the case of civil and criminal defamation against Paranjoy Guha Thakurta has not been withdrawn.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-399
21-01-2021||India||Congress rally against farm laws in Bangalore||The Congress on Wednesday mobilised thousands of party workers and farmers to stage a massive rally against the contentious farm laws in an event that left the city choked. The principal Opposition party made good use of the popular sentiments against the farm laws to attract a huge gathering in the first such show of strength in the city after the series of protests against the citizenship matrix. The protesters who assembled at the city railway station marched for around 3km towards Freedom Park and then tried to lay siege to the Raj Bhavan to send the message loud and clear to the NDA government in Delhi. But the huge police deployment prevented them from getting anywhere near Raj Bhavan, located just over a kilometre from Freedom Park. Police detained hundreds of protesters, including senior Congress leaders, before releasing them later. Among those who were detained and bussed away were state Congress president D.K. Shivakumar and leader of the Opposition P.C. Siddaramiah. Chants of “anti-farmer Modi” and “anti-farmer BJP” rent the air as the protesters marched, or rode tractors and trucks towards the protest venue. Congress leaders who addressed the public meeting at Freedom Park made it clear that it was not just a party event but a platform for the farmers whose voices need to be heard by the state and central governments. “This is not just a Congress event. This is the voice of the state, the nation and our farmers,” Shivakumar told the rally. Originally planned for January 15, the event was postponed because of Sankranti that is widely celebrated across the state. “This agitation is not limited to organising this rally, but we are organising such protests in every taluk in the state to drive home the message that farmers want the farm laws repealed,” Shivakumar said. “I urge the Prime Minister to publish the names of farmers and low-paid workers who benefited from the Rs 20 lakh crore (economic stimulus) package. We know this government is working only for large corporations and not for ordinary citizens,” he said. Siddaramiah said the country’s farmers have decided to remove Prime Minister Narendra Modi. “Modi, why are you working against farmers when the whole country is asking you to repeal the farm laws? If you have any humanity and decency left, please listen to the farmers and their women and children protesting in Delhi,” Siddaramiah said. He said the Supreme Court’s stay on the implementation of the farm laws was a loss of face for the Prime Minister. “If these laws are pro-farmer, why do you think the Supreme Court stayed their implementation? The order is a loss of face for you. Yet you don’t listen to the farmers,” Siddaramiah said. He described the rally as the beginning of what would continue till the next Lok Sabha elections. “I am telling you, Modi and Yediyurappa, our farmers have organised themselves against you,” he added. The Congress leaders alleged that vehicles carrying thousands of protesters were stopped outside the city limits. “The BJP government is doing to the farmers what the British colonial power did to stop the freedom movement. But they must realise that if the British can be sent packing by our freedom fighters, it’s not too difficult for the people to remove the BJP from power,” former minister Krishna Byre Gowda told reporters.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-399
21-01-2021||India||Mathura, Kashi claim on Mohan Bhagwat||A sadhu has claimed that RSS chief Mohan Bhagwat has said the outfit would soon further the cause of Hindutva in Kashi and Mathura, core issues of the saffron camp along with Ayodhya. Sutikshna Das Maharaj, the head of Sudama Kuti, an ashram in Vrindavan, said after meeting the RSS chief on Tuesday evening: “We discussed matters related to Kashi and Mathura. Bhagwat said Kashi and Mathura would be taken up soon.” Bhagwat is in Vrindavan to attend meetings of the RSS. “He said his blessings were with us on these two issues and we together would succeed for sure. He also said it was our duty to make efforts and that God would fulfill them,” said Das, adding that he had met Bhagwat to congratulate him on the beginning of the construction of a Ram temple in Ayodhya. Padam Singh, the RSS kshetra prachar pramukh in west Uttar Pradesh and Uttarakhand, however, said when asked about Das’s claims: “Any official statement on any issue would come directly from the sarsanghchalak. Nobody else is authorised to say what his views on any issue are.” Mathura is the birthplace of Lord Krishna, Kashi or Varanasi is considered the land of Lord Shiva. In both places mosques are located in close proximity of temples. People considered close to the Sangh parivar have filed court cases in Varanasi and Mathura seeking approval to remove Gyanvapi Mosque from near Kashi Vishwanath temple in Varanasi and Shahi Idgah Masjid from near Krishna Janmasthan temple in Mathura.They have claimed that temples were destroyed to build mosques in both places during the Mughal period. Although the RSS has not broached the issue directly in recent years, Kashi and Mathura have been core to its cause along with Ayodhya since the 1980s. The Ram temple movement in Ayodhya culminated in the decimation of Babri Masjid in 1992. After the Supreme Court in November 2019 paved the way for the construction of a Ram temple in Ayodhya, the central government has set up a Ram Janmabhoomi Teerth Kshetra Trust to build the shrine. The trust has begun a countrywide drive to collect funds for the construction.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-399
21-01-2021||India||Day’s pay as 'voluntary' contribution for Ram temple||A senior official in the Uttar Pradesh public works department has begun the process of deducting a day’s salary from PWD employees as “voluntary” contribution towards building a Ram temple in Ayodhya, angering staff who said their permission had not been taken. Rajpal Singh, engineer-in-chief of the development section of the PWD, has purportedly written to a bank at Hazrathganj in Lucknow seeking to open an account in the name of “PWD Ram Mandir Welfare”. The letter, dated January 9, 2021, mentions that a day’s pay would be deducted from the salaries of PWD employees and the amount would be deposited in this account. “With regard to opening of an account in the name of PWD Ram Mandir Welfare,” the letter’s subject line says. The letter mentions that superintending engineer Munish Kumar and chief assistant Virendra Kumar would handle the account, where the “voluntarily” donations would be deposited. Several calls The Telegraph made to Singh and a text message on his mobile phone went unanswered. An employee said on the condition of anonymity: “We came to know that a day’s salary would be deducted. Nobody discussed with us before taking the decision. This is not a voluntary contribution.” “As far as I know, nobody in the government asked Singh to do this. He himself discussed it with some of his colleagues a few days ago and then informed some of the employees about the drive. The majority of the employees came to know about the decision on Wednesday when Singh’s letter was circulated on social media,” the employee said. The employee pointed to Rule 10 of the Uttar Pradesh Government Servants’ Conduct Rules, 1956, which prohibits employees from asking for and accepting contributions and associating himself or herself with the collection of funds without the sanction of the government. PWD sources said that although there was no official order from the government, some senior officials of the department had on their own taken the initiative to collect funds for the construction of the temple. The sources said that although there was resentment among sections of employees, none was likely to protest given the sensitivity of the issue. Subhash Chandra Kushwaha, a social scientist, told reporters: “This is forcible collection of money for a religious purpose. It could be that the government has approved this drive, albeit unofficially.” The Sri Ram Janmabhoomi Teerth Kshetra Trust, authorised to build the Ram temple in Ayodhya, began a funds collection drive on January 14 with President Ram Nath Kovind becoming the first person to contribute. The other initial donors are mostly politicians. Vishwa Hindu Parishad and BJP workers have been organising camps across the country to collect funds. Mahant Paramahans Das, a sadhu in Ayodhya, said: “Some people are fraudulently collecting money in the name of the Ram temple. It is a crime and the trust must look into it.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-399
21-01-2021||India||Fee waiver directive to private schools in Odisha||The Odisha government has asked all private schools to waive a certain percentage of the fees for the 2020-21 academic session in line with the directive of the high court. The reduction of fees will be made under seven specific slabs. The increase in fees by private schools, both aided and unaided, has been a contentious issue with parents’ associations protesting the “ irrational” hike by school managements. The matter had even reached Orissa High Court. School and mass education minister Samir Ranjan Dash said that private schools have been directed to waive fees following the order of the high court. “We are hopeful that the private schools would carry out the court’s order immediately,” Dash said. According to the notification issued by the school and mass education department on Tuesday, the percentage of the annual fees charged by the private institutions will be waived under seven slabs. While there will be a 26 per cent waiver for fees above Rs 1 lakh, the exemption will be to the tune of 25 per cent for fees between Rs 72,001 and Rs 1 lakh, 20 per cent for charges between Rs 48,001 and Rs 72,000, 15 per cent for annual fees between Rs 24,001 and Rs 48,000, 12 per cent for fees between Rs 12,001 and Rs 24,000 and 7.5 per cent for schools charging between Rs 6,001 and Rs 12,000. However, there will be no waiver of fees for schools charging annually up to Rs 6,000. The department has also directed the private schools to waive hostel fees by 30 per cent and rationalise the fees being charged for food and transport. “We are relieved. We are hopeful that the private schools would immediately reduce their fee structures,” said Madhumita Pradhan, parent of a student of DAV Public School, Unit VIII, Bhubaneswar. Odisha Parents’ Federation chairman Bashudev Bhat told The Telegraph: “This is the first time that the state government has thought about the parents’ plight. It’s certainly a welcome step. More such steps need to be taken for bringing reformation in the education sector.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-399
21-01-2021||India||Blockade at NTPC power plant after labourer’s death||Hundreds of officials, workers and their families were held hostage at the NTPC power plant and its township at Barauni in Begusarai district of Bihar over two days after locals laid siege with the body of a labourer killed in a road mishap. The ordeal began on Tuesday afternoon after an unskilled labourer Ramashish Thakur, 56, commuting on a bicycle on National Highway 31, was hit by a speeding car and succumbed to his injuries. The incident occurred around 1km from the power plant. Ramashish was a resident of Malhipur area in Begusarai. Once the hospital declared Ramashish dead, some locals and his family members took his body to the power plant and blocked its gates as well as the route to its township. They demanded compensation and a job to a kin of the victim. The blockade continued overnight and talks with the block development officer and a representative of Utility Powertech Limited (UPL), the company for which the deceased was working on contract at the NTPC power plant, failed to break the deadlock. Around 150 NTPC employees, 500 contractual workers and 100 CISF personnel were stuck inside the power plant, while around 150 families residing in the adjacent township suffered the same fate. Those working shifts could not be relieved by their counterparts because of the protest and were stuck for over 24 hours. Meanwhile, worried power plant officials kept writing to their headquarters and the district administration to resolve the issue. Finally, senior district officials intervened and the protesters agreed to lift the blockade late on Wednesday afternoon. They also took the body with them. “The delay in resolving the issue amicably occurred because no official from the NTPC human resources department was willing to come to talk to the people protesting at the gates of the power plant. The district administration provided a compensation of Rs 4 lakh to the next of the kin of the deceased. The people have called off their protest,” Begusarai superintendent of police Awakash Kumar told The Telegraph. NTPC sources said the UPL, which supplies contractual workers to the power plant, also gave a compensation of around Rs 1.5 lakh to the victim’s kin. “Ramashish’s death was not connected to our company in any manner. Yet the locals blocked the entry and exit routes of the power plant and the adjacent township. It was illogical. Such incidents hamper the work of electricity generation and the government must ensure that they do not happen,” NTPC public relations officer Vishwanath Chandan told this newspaper. Barauni is around 140km east of state capital Patna.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-399
