22-01-2021||India||Do not fear vaccine, Modi tells beneficiaries in Varanasi ||Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Friday sought to dispel fears and misconceptions over the efficacy and safety of Covid vaccines in an interaction with health workers in Varanasi, his Lok Sabha constituency. “When doctors and health workers give a clean chit to the vaccine, it sends a very strong message among people about the efficacy of the shots,” he said through a video conference. Health practitioners who have been vaccinated against coronavirus or have administered the shots to others took part, sharing their first-hand experiences. “Really, corona warriors have done a wonderful job,” Modi said in the 30-minute interaction during which a hospital matron, a nurse, a lab technician and a doctor asserted that there were no side effects after they were vaccinated. The interaction came against the backdrop of authorities grappling with hesitancy over the vaccination, with many health workers not turning up to get themselves vaccinated at their assigned centres. “The world’s largest vaccination drive is underway in India. Our frontline warriors are getting vaccinated across the nation,” Modi had tweeted on Thursday. “This interaction would give first hand opportunity to hear their experiences as well as feedback,” he had said. The prime minister had launched the nationwide inoculation drive on January 16 with over three crore healthcare and frontline workers prioritised to get the jabs initially. Nearly 10.5 lakh beneficiaries have received anti-coronavirus shots under the countrywide Covid-19 vaccination exercise as on date, the Union Health Ministry said on Friday. In a span of 24 hours, 2,37,050 people were vaccinated across 4,049 sessions. A total of 18,167 sessions have been conducted so far. On the testing front too, India continues to register growing numbers, the ministry said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-394
22-01-2021||India||Congress demands Parliamentary probe into Arnab WhatsApp chats||A Joint Parliamentary Committee (JPC) probe into the alleged leaked WhatsApp chats of Republic TV editor-in-chief Arnab Goswami should be conducted, the Congress demanded on Friday. The Congress Working Committee, the highest decision making body of the grand old party, passed a resolution to this effect, for the breach of national security and violations of Official Secrets Act and book those involved. Chaired by Sonia Gandhi, the CWC had earlier discussed the issue, as well as that of farmers’ agitation and the Covid-19 vaccination drive. It had passed three resolutions on each of them. “The CWC demands a time-bound investigation by a Joint Parliamentary Committee to enquire into the breach of national security, violations of Official Secrets Act and the role of the persons involved. Ultimately, those who are guilty of treacherous behaviour must be brought before the law and punished,” the resolution said. The CWC expresses its grave concern at the revelations “exposing the sordid conversations that have undoubtedly compromised national security”, it said. “It is clear that among those involved are persons in the highest echelons of government and there has been a breach of secrecy concerning vital and sensitive military operations. The revelations also point to inexcusable and deliberate subversion of government structures, scandalous and extraneous influence over government policies, and a vicious attack on the independence of the judiciary,” the resolution also said. It alleged that the “shameful compromise” of the Modi government with non-government players has been exposed. The CWC also expressed shock that even days after the revelations, the prime minister and central government remained silent on the issue as though the storm will pass. “Their silence undermines their collusion, complicity and guilt. The storm will not pass and we will hold the central government accountable for compromising national security and aiding India's adversaries,” the resolution said. Earlier, in her introductory remarks, Sonia Gandhi said there have been “very disturbing reports” on how national security has been “so thoroughly compromised”. Referring to former defence minister A.K. Antony dubbing the leaking of official secrets of military operations as treason, she said the silence from the government's side on what has been revealed has been deafening. “Those who give certificates of patriotism and nationalism to others now stand totally exposed,” the Congress chief said. In another resolution, the CWC demanded that the Centre immediately repeals the three ‘anti-agri’ laws, against which the farmers have launched an agitation for the last over 50 days. The CWC noted that these three laws impinge upon the constitutional rights of states and constitute the first step in dismantling the three pillars of the edifice of food security built up over the past decades - MSP, public procurement and PDS and also did not pass the test of parliamentary scrutiny as they were bulldozed by muzzling the voice of the opposition. The resolution further said that the farmers only want repeal of the laws, but the government continues to side-step, malign, deceive and hoodwink the farmers by attempting to tire out, intimidate and divide the farmers. In the third resolution, the CWC said it calls upon the central government to take all necessary steps to overcome the hesitancy among frontline health professionals on Covid-19 vaccination. “The hesitancy is on account of the blatant politicisation of the regulatory process in order to boost the image of the prime minister.” “The CWC underlines that India's under-privileged, disadvantages and marginalised sections, particularly the scheduled castes, the scheduled tribes, other backward classes and the poor, need to be administered the vaccine free of charge and within a time-bound period,” K.C. Venugopal said while reading out the resolution.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-394
22-01-2021||India||Farmers threaten to step up agitation as talks hit roadblock||The government's negotiations with protesting farm unions hit a roadblock on Friday as the farmer leaders stuck to their demands for a complete repeal of three farm laws they find pro-corporate and a legal guarantee for MSP, even as the Centre asked them to reconsider its proposal for putting the Acts on hold for 12-18 months. Unlike the last 10 rounds of talks, the 11th round could not even reach a decision on the next date for the meeting as the government also hardened its position saying it is ready to meet again once the unions agree to discuss the suspension proposal. This followed a big climbdown made by the Centre during the last round when they offered to suspend the laws and form a joint committee to find solutions. Farmer leaders said they will intensify their agitation now and alleged that the government's approach was not right during the meeting.' After the meeting, Union agriculture Minister Narendra Singh Tomar  said some "forces" definitely wanted the protests to continue for their own personal and political motives. He said no resolution was possible when the sanctity of agitation was lost. The minister said farmer unions had been asked to revert till Saturday if they agreed to the government's proposal for putting the laws on hold and forming a joint committee to reach a solution, after which the talks can continue. "We also told farmers to give their own proposal, other than the repeal of Acts, if they have got anything better than our offer," Tomar told reporters after the 11th round of talks. Asked whether he expects the farmers to agree to the government offer, he said, "I don't want to speculate, but we are hopeful that farmer unions will consider our response positively." On whether he saw any division among the union leaders on the government proposal, Tomar did not give a direct reply but said, "We thanked all farmer leaders, including those who support our proposal and those who are against it." While the meeting lasted for almost five hours, the two sides sat face to face for less than 30 minutes. In the very beginning, the farmer leaders informed the government that they have decided to reject the proposal made by the government in the last round of talks on Wednesday. The three central ministers, including Agriculture Minister Narendra Singh Tomar, urged the union representatives to reconsider their stand, after which the two sides went for a lunch break. The break, during which the farmer leaders had their langar (community kitchen) food, lasted for more than three hours. The break also saw the 41 farmer leaders holding consultations among themselves, at times in smaller groups, while the three central ministers waited in a separate room at Vigyan Bhawan. After the meeting, Bharatiya Kisan Union (Ugrahan) leader Joginder Singh Ugrahan said the discussions have broken down as the unions rejected the government's proposal. The ministers told the unions that they have been given all possible options and they must discuss internally the proposal of suspending the laws. Tomar told the farmer leaders that the government would be ready for another meeting if farmers want to discuss the proposal, sources said. The minister also thanked unions for their cooperation and said while there were no problems with the laws, the government offered to suspend them as respect for the protesting farmers. Coming out of the meeting venue, farmer leader Shiv Kumar Kakka said there was no headway in the discussions and the government asked unions to deliberate on its proposal again. Kakka was the first to leave the meeting, but said it was for "some personal reasons". In the last round of meetings held on Wednesday, the government had offered to put on hold the three laws and set up a joint committee to find solutions. However, after internal consultations on Thursday, the farmer unions decided to reject the offer and stick to their two major demands -- the repeal of the three laws and a legal guarantee of the minimum support price (MSP). "We told the government that we will not agree to anything other than the repeal of the laws. But the minister asked us to discuss separately again and rethink the matter and convey the decision," farmer leader Darshan Pal told PTI. BKU leader Rakesh Tikait said: "We conveyed our position clearly to the government that we want a repeal of the laws and not a suspension. The ministers asked us to reconsider our decision." Some leaders expressed apprehensions that the movement will lose its momentum once the farmers go away from Delhi borders. Harpal Singh, President of Bhartiya Kisan Union -- Asli Arajnaitik (Real Apolitical), said, "Even if we accept the government's offer, our fellow brothers sitting at Delhi borders will not accept anything other than a repeal of the laws. They will not spare us. What achievement will we show to them?" He also questioned the government's credibility, alleging it was difficult to believe that they will keep their word on putting the laws on hold for 18 months. "We will die here but we will not return without getting the laws repealed," Singh said. Along with Union Agriculture Minister Tomar, Railways, Commerce and Food Minister Piyush Goyal and Minister of State for Commerce Som Parkash are also participating in the talks with representatives of 41 farmer unions at the Vigyan Bhawan here. In a full general body meeting on Thursday, Samyukt Kisan Morcha, the umbrella body of the protesting unions, rejected the government's proposal. "A full repeal of three central farm Acts and enacting a legislation for remunerative MSP for all farmers were reiterated as the pending demands of the movement," the Morcha said in a statement. Thousands of farmers, mainly from Punjab, Haryana and western Uttar Pradesh, are protesting at various border points of Delhi for over a month now against the three laws. Farmer groups have alleged these laws will end the mandi and MSP procurement systems and leave the farmers at the mercy of big corporates, even as the government has rejected these apprehensions as misplaced. On January 11, the Supreme Court stayed the implementation of the three laws till further orders and appointed a four-member panel to resolve the impasse. Bhartiya Kisan Union president Bhupinder Singh Mann had recused himself from the committee appointed by the apex court. Shetkari Sanghatana (Maharashtra) president Anil Ghanwat and agriculture economists Pramod Kumar Joshi and Ashok Gulati, the other three members on the panel, started the consultation process with stakeholders on Thursday.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-394
22-01-2021||India||CWC members decide to elect president after Assembly polls||The Congress Working Committee on Friday decided that the new president of the party will be elected in June, and approved holding internal discussions on the matter after Assembly polls in five states. The committee after a three and a half hour meeting authorised incumbent party chief Sonia Gandhi to schedule the internal election after the conclusion of assembly polls in five states. Addressing a joint press conference, Congress leaders K.C. Venugopal and Randeep Surjewala said elections to the CWC will also be held but it remains to be seen whether they can be scheduled before or after the election to the Congress chief's post. Sources said the Central Election Authority has proposed the holding of polls for electing the party president and AICC session on May 29 and the working committee discussed the dates, but authorised Sonia Gandhi to schedule them after the assembly polls. The CWC passed three resolutions demanding a repeal of the three agriculture laws, a time-bound JPC probe into the alleged violations of national security and Official Secrets Act and another to ensure that the government ensures free time-bound Covid-19 vaccination for the poor and oppressed sections. “The CWC decided that there will be an elected Congress President by June 2021 at any cost,” AICC general secretary K.C. Venugopal said. He said the little change of schedule depending on the state elections will be decided soon. “The CWC discussed the schedule of Congress president's elections in May-end, proposed by its election authority. All CWC members unanimously requested the Congress president that the internal elections should not interfere with the assembly elections,” Venugopal said. He said the Congress president was requested unanimously to reschedule AICC Plenary Session to the end of June 2021 and the Congress chief's election would be concluded by June 2021. “We will conduct elections as per the Constitution of the party. We need a change of schedule due to assembly polls as counting would be underway in May,” he said. Asked about any dissenting notes on the holding of elections, Surjewala said, "There was no dissent at the meeting." He added that leaders like Ghulam Nabi Azad, Anand Sharma or P. Chidambaram were not dissenters but senior members of the Congress party and were all unanimous in deciding to extend the election schedule a little. “There was no argument in the election schedule issue. The meeting was very fruitful. There is no dispute over conducting an organisational election,” Venugopal said. He said a little clarity was needed on whether the CWC election can be held before or after the Congress president’s election. “We have to go to the constitution to look at that. The practice is to hold Congress president’s election first and then the CWC election,” he said. There were reports about Rajasthan Chief Minister Ashok Gehlot hitting out at those demanding internal elections, saying the leaders should leave this to the party chief and focus on how to fight the Narendra Modi-led BJP. Anand Sharma objected to the tone of his remarks, dubbing it “disrespectful”, the sources said. The virtual meeting chaired by party chief Sonia Gandhi started with her address. She then asked AICC general secretary organisation K.C. Venugopal to read out the Organisational Election Schedule sent by the chairperson of the Central Election Authority. The CEC chaired by Madhusudan Mistry has proposed that the AICC Session and the party president's election be held on May 29, with the process of nomination filing starting in the month of May itself. Sonia Gandhi took over as the interim Congress president in August 2019 after Rahul Gandhi resigned in the wake of the party’s Lok Sabha debacle in May 2019. There have been demands from a section of the Congress leaders for having a full-time and active party president and an organisational overhaul. The CWC had in its earlier meeting decided to hold organisational elections, following a storm in the party in August last year over a letter to Sonia Gandhi by a group of 23 leaders including Ghulam Nabi Azad, Anand Sharma, Bhupinder Hooda, Prithviraj Chavan, Kapil Sibal, Manish Tewari and Mukul Wasnik raising these issues. Sonia Gandhi had last month met some of these 'letter-writers' and discussed the issues raised by them.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-394
22-01-2021||India||Centre asks farmers to reconsider offer of holding laws for 18 months||The Centre on Friday asked protesting farmers’ unions to reconsider its offer of suspending the three contentious agri laws for 12 to 18 months but they stood firm on their grounds, asking for complete repeal of the Acts. The farmers’ unions are meeting with three central ministers for the 11th round of talks to solve the nearly two-months-long impasse over the controversial laws, enacted in September last year. In the last round of meetings held on Wednesday, the government had offered to put on hold the three laws and set up a joint committee to find solutions. However, after internal consultations on Thursday, the farmer unions decided to reject the offer and stick to their two major demands -- the repeal of the three laws and a legal guarantee of the minimum support price (MSP). “We told the government that we will not agree to anything other than the repeal of the laws. But the minister asked us to discuss separately again and rethink on the matter and convey the decision,” farmer leader Darshan Pal told PTI during a break after the first session. BKU leader Rakesh Tikait said, “We have conveyed our position clearly to the government that we want a repeal of the laws and not a suspension. The minister (Narendra Singh Tomar) asked us to reconsider our decision.” Tikait said the farmer leaders are discussing internally on this issue. “After the lunch break, we will convey our decision,” he added. The eleventh round of talks between protesting farmer unions and three central ministers began at around 1 pm, but not much headway was visible in the first two hours of the meeting. Along with Union Agriculture Minister Tomar, Railways, Commerce and Food Minister Piyush Goyal and Minister of State for Commerce Som Parkash are also participating in the talks with representatives of 41 farmer unions at the Vigyan Bhawan here. In a full general body meeting on Thursday, Samyukt Kisan Morcha, the umbrella body of the protesting unions, rejected the government's proposal. "A full repeal of three central farm Acts and enacting a legislation for remunerative MSP for all farmers were reiterated as the pending demands of the movement," the Morcha said in a statement. Thousands of farmers, mainly from Punjab, Haryana and western Uttar Pradesh, are protesting at various border points of Delhi for over a month now against the three laws. Farmer groups have alleged these laws will end the mandi and MSP procurement systems and leave the farmers at the mercy of big corporates, even as the government has rejected these apprehensions as misplaced. On January 11, the Supreme Court stayed the implementation of the three laws till further orders and appointed a four-member panel to resolve the impasse. Bhartiya Kisan Union president Bhupinder Singh Mann had recused himself from the committee appointed by the apex court. Shetkari Sanghatana (Maharashtra) president Anil Ghanwat and agriculture economists Pramod Kumar Joshi and Ashok Gulati -- the other three members on the panel -- started the consultation process with stakeholders on Thursday.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-394
22-01-2021||India||Union ministers start 11th round of talks with protesting farmer unions||The eleventh round of talks between protesting farmer unions and three central ministers got underway here on Friday to break the nearly two-month-long deadlock on the three new agri laws. In the last round of meeting held on Wednesday, the government yielded some ground in its bid to end the farmers' protest on various border points of the national capital. The Centre had offered to put on hold the three laws for 12-18 months and also set up a joint committee to find solutions. However, the farmer unions on Thursday rejected the government's offer and remained stuck to their two major demand -- repeal of three farm laws and legal guarantee of the minimum support price (MSP). Farmers group said they will continue the protest and also hold tractor rally on January 26, the Republic Day. Union Agriculture Minister Narendra Singh Tomar, Railways, Commerce and Food Minister Piyush Goyal and Minister of State for Commerce Som Parkash are holding the talks with the representatives of 41 farmer unions at the Vigyan Bhawan here. "In a full general body meeting of the Samyukt Kisan Morcha..., the proposal put forth by the government...was rejected. A full repeal of three central farm acts and enacting legislation for remunerative MSP for all farmers were reiterated as the pending demands of the movement," Samkyukt Kisan Morcha, an umbrella body of protesting unions, had said in a statement on Thursday. Thousands of farmers, mainly from Punjab, Haryana and western Uttar Pradesh, are protesting at various border points of Delhi for over a month now against the three laws. Farmer groups have alleged these laws will end the mandi and MSP procurement systems and leave the farmers at the mercy of big corporates, even as the government has rejected these apprehensions as misplaced. On January 11, the Supreme Court had stayed the implementation of the three laws till further orders and appointed a four-member panel to resolve the impasse. Bhartiya Kisan Union president Bhupinder Singh Mann had recused himself from the committee appointed by the apex court. Shetkari Sanghatana (Maharashtra) president Anil Ghanwat and agriculture economists Pramod Kumar Joshi and Ashok Gulati, the other three members on the panel, started the consultation process with stakeholders on Thursday.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-394
22-01-2021||India||Centre 'insensitive' towards farmers' agitation, claims Sonia||Congress president Sonia Gandhi on Friday launched a fierce attack on the Centre over the farmers' agitation and said the government has shown "shocking insensitivity and arrogance going through the charade of consultations". Addressing a crucial meeting of the Congress Working Committee, she alleged that it was now abundantly clear that the three farm laws were prepared in haste and Parliament was consciously denied an opportunity to examine in any meaningful detail their implications and impacts. "The agitation of farmers continues and the government has shown shocking insensitivity and arrogance going through the charade of consultations," she said. The crucial meeting, being held virtually, will also finalise the plan for organisational elections, including that of the next Congress president. Gandhi said the Congress position on the issue of the farm laws has been clear from the very beginning. "We reject them categorically because they will destroy the foundations of food security that are based on the three pillars of MSP, public procurement and PDS." Discussing the budget session of Parliament, she said there are many pressing issues of public concern that need to be debated and discussed, but it remains to be seen whether the government will agree to a discussion. On the purported WhatsApp chat leaks of Arnab Goswami, she said, "There have been very disturbing reports on how national security has been so thoroughly compromised." "The silence from the government's side on what has been revealed has been deafening. Those who give certificates of patriotism and nationalism to others now stand totally exposed," she said. Gandhi expressed the hope that the process of the COVID-19 vaccination drive will continue and be completed to the fullest extent. The government, she added, has inflicted untold suffering on the people of the country by the manner in which it has managed the COVID-19 pandemic. "It will take years for the scars to heal," she alleged. The economic situation remains grim and large parts of the economy like MSME and the informal sector have been decimated with the government refusing to extend a lifeline, the Congress president said. "When public expenditure has to be carefully prioritized, it is very painful to find huge amounts of money being allocated and spent on initiatives that can only be described as 'personal vanity projects'," she said. "Panic privatization has gripped the government and this is something that the Congress party can never accept and support," Gandhi added. The Congress chief also asked the party office bearers to list the schedule and modalities for organizational elections that has to get the CWC's approval.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-394
22-01-2021||India||Centre against 2nd chance for UPSC aspirants who missed exam due to Covid||The Centre on Friday told the Supreme Court that it was not in favour of granting one more opportunity to those civil services aspirants who could not appear in their last attempt in the exams conducted by the UPSC last year due to the pandemic situation. A bench headed by Justice A M Khanwilkar took note of the submissions of Additional Solicitor General S V Raju, appearing on behalf of the Department of Personnel and Training (DoPT), that the government was not ready to give one more chance to the civil services aspirants who could not appear in 2020 due to the COVID-19 situation. "We are not ready to give one more chance. Give me the time to file an affidavit... yesterday night I received instruction that we are not agreeable," the law officer told the bench which also comprised justices B R Gavai and Krishna Murai. The bench has now posted the plea of a civil services aspirant Rachna for hearing on January 25 and asked the Centre to file an affidavit during the period and serve it to the parties. Earlier, Solicitor General Tushar Mehta had told the bench that the government was considering the issue of granting one more opportunity to such civil services aspirants.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-395
22-01-2021||India||CBI files case against Cambridge Analytica for data harvesting||The CBI has booked UK-based Cambridge Analytica and Global Science Research Ltd for illegally harvesting data of Facebook users in India for commercial purposes, officials said on Friday. The action came after a preliminary enquiry into the matter which showed that Global Science Research had created an app "thisisyourdigitallife" which was authorised by Facebook to collect specific datasets of its users for research and academic purposes in 2014, they said. The company then entered into a criminal conspiracy with Cambridge Analytica, allowing it to use the data harvested by it for commercial purposes, the officials said. Facebook had collected certificates from both the firms in 2016-17 that data collected by them using "thisisyourdigitallife" was accounted for and destroyed. However, the CBI enquiry did not find any evidence of any such destruction, according to the officials. "The enquiry prima facie established that Global Science Research Ltd, UK dishonestly and fraudulently accessed data of app users of "thisisyourdigitallife" and their Facebook friends," an official said, citing the FIR. After nearly 18 months of the preliminary enquiry, the CBI has booked the UK-based Cambridge Analytica and Global Science Research for alleged illegal harvesting of data of 5.62 lakh Indian Facebook users for profiteering and manipulating elections, officials said Friday. The agency registered case against Cambridge Analytica and Global Science Research represented by Aleksandr Kogan, both based in the UK, under Indian Penal Code section related to criminal conspiracy and Information Technology Act violations related to receiving stolen computer resource and negligence in handling personal data collected by them, they said. Based on news reports of illegal data harvesting to manipulate elections, the Ministry of Electronics and Information Technology (MeitY) had sent a complaint to the CBI on July 25, 2018 based on which the agency had registered a preliminary enquiry into the matter, they said. It is alleged that Kogan of GSR had created an application "Thisisyourdigitallife" having permission from Facebook to collect certain categories of its users' data for "research and academic purposes". It illegally collected additional data of not only the 335 users of the application but also of their friends' network on Facebook, the social media giant without their consent or knowledge, the FIR alleged. The data was allegedly sold for commerical gains to Cambridge Analytica which used it for profiling users and influencing elections in India, the complaint alleged. Although the application had 335 users in India, it was able to harvest data of 5.62 lakh Facebook members who were in their friends' network, Facebook had told the MeitY in its response. Cambridge Analytica in its response had told the ministry that it received data of only US-based users from GSR. The company did not respond to further queries, the complaint alleged. During the enquiry, the CBI contacted all the 335 Indian users of the GSR's application out of which only six responded. They all unanimously told the agency that they were not aware that their personal data and that of their friends was collected, the FIR said. The users told the agency that they would not have used the application if they had known about the collection of personal data, it said. After nearly 18 months, the CBI enquiry has prima facie established that GSR dishonestly and fraudulently accessed and harvested data of Facebook users without their consent or knowledge of including private chats, pages visited, demographic information etc, the FIR alleged. The agency enquiry also established that GSR illegally gave the right to Cambridge Analytica to use the data for commercial gains, it alleged.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-395
22-01-2021||India||More than 14,000 people test Covid positive, 163 succumb to the virus in a day||India's Covid-19 caseload rose to 1,06,25,428 with 14,545 people testing positive for coronavirus infection in a day, while the recoveries have surged to 1,02,83,708, according to the Union Health Ministry data updated on Friday. The death toll increased to 1,53,032 with 163 fresh fatalities, the data updated at 8 am showed. The number of people who have recuperated from the disease surged to 1,02,83,708 pushing the national COVID-19 recovery rate of 96.78 per cent, while the COVID-19 case fatality rate stands at 1.44 per cent. The COVID-19 active caseload remained below 2 lakh for the third consecutive day.There are 1,88,688 active coronavirus infections in the country which comprise 1.78 per cent of the total caseload, the data stated. India's COVID-19 tally had crossed the 20-lakh mark on August 7, 30 lakh on August 23, 40 lakh on September 5 and 50 lakh on September 16.It went past 60 lakh on September 28, 70 lakh on October 11, crossed 80 lakh on October 29, 90 lakh on November 20 and surpassed the one-crore mark on December 19. According to the ICMR, 19,01,48,024 samples have been tested up to January 21 with 8,00,242 samples being tested on Thursday. The 163 new fatalities include 52 from Maharashtra, 21 from Kerala, 15 from Punjab , 9 each from Tamil Nadu, Chhattisgarh and West Bengal and 8 from Delhi. A total of 1,53,032 deaths have been reported so far in the country including 50,634 from Maharashtra followed by 12,299 from Tamil Nadu, 12,187 from Karnataka, 10,782 from Delhi, 10,089 from West Bengal, 8,597 from Uttar Pradesh and, 7,142 from Andhra Pradesh. The health ministry stressed that more than 70 per cent of the deaths occurred due to comorbidities. "Our figures are being reconciled with the Indian Council of Medical Research," the ministry said on its website, adding that state-wise distribution of figures is subject to further verification and reconciliation.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-395
22-01-2021||India||Fog disrupts traffic movement in Delhi||Delhi's minimum temperature dropped to 4.2 degrees Celsius, three notches below normal, on Friday even as foggy conditions disrupted traffic movement, the India Meteorological Department (IMD) said. Moderate fog lowered visibility to 350 metres at Safdarjung and Palam, officials said. According to the IMD, very dense fog is when visibility is between 0 and 50 metres. In case of dense fog, visibility is between 51 and 200 metres, moderate 201 and 500 metres, and shallow 501 and 1,000 metres. A fresh Western Disturbance affecting the western Himalayas is likely to provide some relief from the chill. The minimum temperature is expected to increase to 9 degrees Celsius by Sunday as a result of easterly winds and cloud cover. Easterly winds have already started blowing in the national capital. A cloud cover will further increase the minimum temperature on Saturday and Sunday," Kuldeep Srivastava, the head of the IMD's regional forecasting centre, said. Easterly winds are not as cold as northwesterly coming in from the snow-clad western Himalayas, while clouds trap some of the outgoing infrared radiation, increasing the minimum temperature. However, Srivastava said, the minimum temperature will again drop to four degrees Celsius by Monday. The WD will lead to widespread snowfall in the upper hills of Jammu and Kashmir, Himachal Pradesh and Uttarakhand. Cold, dry winds from the snow-capped mountains will bring the mercury down to 4 degrees Celsius by Monday, he said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-395
22-01-2021||India||Centre’s proposal to suspend implementation farm laws rejected||The protesting farmers on Thursday rejected the Centre’s proposal to suspend the implementation of the three contentious laws for 18 months, taking the stand that the 143 “martyred” farmers had died seeking repeal and not such half-measures. “The SKM pays homage to the 143 farmers who have been martyred in this movement so far. These companions are separated from us while fighting this mass movement. Their sacrifice will not go in vain and we will not go back without the repealing of these farm laws,” the Samyukta Kisan Morcha said in a statement. The decision by the SKM, which has been spearheading the farmers’ protest, was announced on Thursday night after three rounds of meetings over the 24 hours since the offer had been made. This being the first concrete offer from the government, it was considered with all seriousness and saw some farmer leaders inclined to accepting it. But, sources said, even they were clear that it could be accepted only if the government enacted a law guaranteeing a minimum support price (MSP) for 23 crops. Repeal of the three laws and a legally guaranteed MSP have been the farmers’ two main demands. It was the second demand that took the movement beyond Punjab and Haryana. The offer was first discussed on Wednesday night within the All India Kisan Sangharsh Coordination Committee, which had given the “Dilli chalo” call that brought thousands of farmers to Delhi’s borders on November 26. On Thursday morning, another round of discussion took place among the farmer unions from Punjab, after which the SKM met. All day the union leaders maintained a studied silence. By evening, when the SKM remained closeted, Rakesh Tikait of the Bharatiya Kisan Union from Uttar Pradesh said the offer had been rejected. By this time, Shingara Singh Mann of the BKU-Ekta (Ugrahan) — the largest farmer organisation from Punjab, which has brought the highest number of people to picket the Tikri border — too had made it known that the offer was unacceptable. Mann said that suspension of the laws would mean they would be hanging over the farmers’ heads like a sword. Other union leaders too questioned the logic in having the laws in the statute books if they were not to be implemented. “Why is the government not repealing them if it is sincere?” was the refrain. Another consideration was that the movement was on the ascendant with more unions joining in from across the country. Added to this was the enthusiasm in Punjab for the tractor rally planned in Delhi on Republic Day. The farm union leaders have more than once over the past two months maintained that while they are the ones attending the talks with the government, it is not them but the mass of farmers who are leading the movement. “What if we agree to the proposal and a large section of farmers do not? That would divide and weaken this movement, and we will not be able to mobilise people on this scale for a long time in that eventuality,” a union leader said. Less than an hour after the SKM announced its decision, BKU (Siddupur) leader Jagjit Singh Dallewal told reporters at the Singhu border that the meeting was still on and that no decision had been taken. However, another union leader who was at the meeting said that what was being discussed was related to differences that had cropped up between the Rashtriya Kisan Mazdoor Mahasangh leader Shiv Kumar “Kakkaji” and Haryana farm leader Gurnam Singh Chaduni. Delhi police have requested the SKM not to conduct the planned January 26 “kisan parade” in Delhi but the farmers have reiterated that they would hold the tractor rally on the Outer Ring Road after the official Republic Day parade. The union leaders have maintained that the rally would be peaceful and that they know that any form of violence would be counterproductive and weaken the movement. The SKM will formally communicate its decision to the government on Friday, when the eleventh round of talks is scheduled. Agriculture minister Narendra Singh Tomar had been hopeful of resolving the issue on Friday. But the farmers — while conceding that the offer is a positive step — continue to bristle at the absence of empathy, the name calling, the use of force to stop their movement, and the use of the National Investigation Agency to scare them.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-395
22-01-2021||India||5 dead in fire at Serum Institute of india, vaccine production not hit||A blaze on Thursday at the Serum Institute of India killed five people but the world’s biggest vaccine maker said it would not affect production of the AstraZeneca coronavirus vaccine. At least nine people have been evacuated from the five-storey, under-construction building in the Manjari complex, according to sources. The building is 1km from the Covishield manufacturing unit. Videos and pictures showed black smoke billowing from a multi-storey building at the Serum Institute’s sprawling headquarters complex in Pune. The process of manufacturing the coronavirus vaccine has not been affected, Serum Institute CEO Adar Poonawalla said. “We have just received some distressing updates; upon further investigation, we have learnt that there has unfortunately been some loss of life at the incident. We are deeply saddened and offer our deepest condolences to the family members of the departed,” Poonawalla tweeted. “I would like to reassure all governments and the public that there would be no loss of #COVISHIELD production due to multiple production buildings that I had kept in reserve to deal with such contingencies at @SerumInstIndia. Thank you very much, Pune City Police and Fire Department,” he added. The Manjari facility is where the Covishield vaccine is being made. Poonawalla told a TV channel that the fire would mean delays in launching new products and revenue losses of more than Rs 1,000 crore. Equipment worth millions of dollars has been damaged, he said. But a source said that none of the new production equipment for vaccines was in the building that caught fire. Those who died were construction workers working on the fifth floor. The fire broke out at 2.45pm on the fourth and fifth floors of the SEZ 3 building and was brought under control around 4.30pm. Initial information suggested an electrical fault had caused the fire. Cyrus Poonawalla, the Serum Institute chairman and managing director, said the family of each of the deceased would receive a compensation of Rs 25 lakh.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-395
22-01-2021||India||Report sought on captive elephant death||The Latehar district administration in Jharkhand has asked officials of the Palamau Tiger Reserve under Betla National Park to submit a report at the earliest on the lapses that led to the killing of a captive 40-year-old male elephant by two wild tuskers. This was the first such incident of a captive elephant being killed by wild tuskers and that too in the presence of a large number of forest guards. Latehar deputy commissioner Abu Imran shot off a letter on Wednesday to deputy director of the north division of the tiger reserve, Kumar Ashish, on reasons for shifting the captive elephant to the Palamau Fort and what steps had been taken by the forest officials to safeguard the animal. “The forest officials had not reported anything to me about Monday night’s incident. However, after going through media reports and The Telegraph report I came to know about certain lapses. I also saw the central government guidelines (issued by Union ministry of environment and forests in 2008) for care and management of captive elephants as part of Project Elephant. I have asked them to furnish a report on the reason for shifting the elephant to that particular location, the steps taken to safeguard the animal and whether they followed all the guidelines issued by the central government,” said Imran, a 2010-batch IAS officer. The male elephant named Kal Bhairav was gored to death by two wild tuskers at Palamau Fort late on Monday night in the presence of nearly 10 forest guards who could only shout and burst crackers in their efforts to ward them off. The wild tuskers continued attacking the captive elephant and finally broke his chains and took him nearly 200 metres away from the shed. he entire incident lasted for over an hour with the captive elephant receiving multiple external injuries (over 25) and his intestines being punctured by the wild tuskers. Forest officials, however, claimed that they are yet to receive any letter from the deputy commissioner. “We are yet to receive any such letter from the deputy commissioner so far,” said Kumar. Five captive elephants were kept at the Palamau Fort, which is a major tourist attraction. The forest department had constructed three watch towers with halogen lights all around and a provision for 24x7 forest guards in such a manner that 10 of them are on duty at any point of time. Kal Bhairav was among the three captive elephants rescued and brought to the Betla National Park from Mysore in Karnataka in 2018 and was the lone male among them. Wildlife conservationist and secretary of the Nature Conservation Society, D.S. Srivastava, who has been studying elephant and tiger behaviour in the Palamau and Latehar regions for over three decades, had blamed the forest officials for the incident. “Firstly, forest officials should not have kept the captive elephants at Palamau Fort which is in a dense forest and there is always a danger of attack from wild elephants. Secondly, they should have constructed a deep trench all around the shed to prevent wild elephants from coming closer to the captive ones. Thirdly, they should have provided tranquilliser guns to the forest guards as bursting crackers and shouting is not going to be of much help to ward off tuskers when they become aggressive,” said Srivastava.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-395
22-01-2021||India||Kashmir valley witnessesing saffron boom||The Valley appears to be witnessing a saffron boom, largely thanks to the Congress. Only, this version of saffron concerns the kitchen more than the polling booth. While the BJP continues to struggle in Kashmir, a spice emblematic of the Valley and representing the party’s favourite colour is said to have turned a corner after years of poor yields. Saffron, the world’s costliest spice, fetches Rs 1.5 lakh to Rs 2.5 lakh a kilogram. Its production in Kashmir, the only place in India where it is grown, had been waning for decades because of droughts and the conversion of saffron-growing fields into residential plots. Prime Minister Narendra Modi had over the years shown an unexpected level of interest in kicking up its production, something many Kashmiris attribute to the symbolism of the colour rather than his love of the spice itself. Modi must thank his predecessor Manmohan Singh for the recent good news, though, for the rise in production seems largely the outcome of the Rs 410-crore National Saffron Mission (NSM), which the erstwhile UPA Prime Minister had launched in 2010, slowly bearing fruit. Officials said the Modi government can be credited only for continuing with the programme, and for Kashmiri saffron securing the geographical Indication (GI) tag. “Great Achievement: Annual yield of the world’s costliest spice, #Saffron, cultivated in Kashmir has crossed 13 metric tonnes for the first time in the last 10 years,” lieutenant governor Manoj Sinha’s office tweeted on Wednesday. While some officials cited even higher figures, an industry body suggested the actual production should be lower than what Sinha had claimed. Kashmir agriculture director Mohammad Iqbal Choudhary said the actual production in Kashmir was 18 tonnes. “So far as the production of 13 metric tonnes is concerned, it is the yield from some 2,400 hectares that have been rejuvenated under the mission so far. In all, the mission aims to rejuvenate 3,700 hectares,” Choudhary told The Telegraph. Official data say that production rose to 13.36 tonnes over this area in 2020 against 1.489 tonnes a decade ago when the mission was launched. The purported improvement comes seven months after Kashmiri saffron got the GI tag — a boost in the competition with saffron produced in Iran, Spain and other places. “The GI tag is helping big time. Because of it we introduced e-trading. Lacha saffron would cost Rs 80 per gram last year but is selling at Rs 175-185 now. Similarly, the price of the Mogra variety has shot up to Rs 228 per gram this year from Rs 120 per gram in 2019,” Choudhary said. Saffron production had peaked in the 1980s, when farmers claim it was around 30 tonnes while government figures cite about half that figure. The NSM sought to introduce scientific techniques to rejuvenate saffron bulbs, provide groundwater irrigation through bore wells and sprinklers, provide power tillers, and set up a high-tech saffron park with mechanised processing and e-trading facilities. Mohammad Qasim Ghani, chief agriculture officer of Pulwama, where the spice is mainly grown, said the NSM had helped increase production. “Because of it, production has gone up to 4.5kg-5kg per hectare. In its heyday, production was 6-7kg a hectare, and we aim to achieve that,” he said. Officials said a Rs 40-crore Spice Park set up under the mission, where saffron is scientifically dried and tested for quality, had been a boon. However, Ghulam Mohammad Pampori, president of the Kashmir Saffron Growers and Dealers Association, contested all the figures. “The situation has not changed much on the ground. Drought and disease remain enemies of the crop. They (the government) are only interested in promoting themselves, while the fact is that production per hectare remains what it was a few years ago,” he said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-395
22-01-2021||India||Governor’s decision on Rajiv’s assassins soon||The Centre on Thursday told the Supreme Court that the Tamil Nadu governor would take a decision within the next three-four days on the premature release of seven assassins of former Prime Minister Rajiv Gandhi. Solicitor-general Tushar Mehta made the announcement before a bench of Justices L. Nageswara Rao, Abdul Nazeer and Indu Malhotra, following which the court adjourned the matter for four weeks. The court was hearing a petition filed by A.G. Perarivalan, one of the convicts, seeking his release from jail in view of a recommendation by the Tamil Nadu government in 2018. Mehta told the court that he had instructions to say that the governor would take a decision within three-four days. Besides Perarivalan, the other life convicts are Nalini, Murugan, Santhan, Jayakumar, Ravichandran and Robert Pyas. The Tamil Nadu cabinet had passed a resolution in September 2018 to release the convicts and had forwarded it to governor Banwarilal Purohit. The recommendation is pending for over two years. The Centre has not accepted the Tamil Nadu government’s recommendation for the release of the convicts and challenged it in the Supreme Court. Rajiv was assassinated by suicide bombers of the LTTE at Sriperumbudur in Tamil Nadu in 1991. In his petition, Perarivalan has said that he was accused of buying the belt bomb battery used to assassinate Rajiv, but the allegation had not been proved beyond reasonable doubt.
During a hearing last November, the judges, who examined the report filed on behalf of the CBI in connection with the case, expressed dissatisfaction, saying nothing new had been filed on the belt bomb and ordering a fresh report. During that hearing, the court had questioned the governor’s delay in deciding on the release. Perarivalan has been in prison for nearly 30 years .His death sentence was commuted to life imprisonment by the Supreme Court as the President had earlier taken nearly 12 years to reject the clemency petitions. During the November 3 hearing, Justice Rao, heading the three-judge bench, had told senior advocate Gopal Sankarnarayan appearing for Perarivalan: “We don’t want to exercise our jurisdiction, but we are not happy with how this recommendation has been pending for two years. Tell us what the law and cases are which can allow us to do it (pass a direction). We can hear this after vacation.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-395
22-01-2021||India||Supreme Court notice on Mirzapur resident’s plea on show||The Supreme Court on Thursday sought the response of the Centre, streaming service Amazon Prime Video and Excel Entertainment, the producer of the popular web series Mirzapur, on a plea by a resident of Mirzapur, Uttar Pradesh, accusing the makers of hurting the sentiments of the entire city by branding it a place of terror, crime, adultery, gambling and gang wars. Besides seeking action against the producers and actors of the web series for “indecent representation”, petitioner Sujit Kumar Singh, a resident of Mirzapur, through advocate Binay Kumar Das has urged the court to direct the Centre to evolve suitable guidelines for such shows, including prior certification by the information and broadcasting ministry akin to that granted for regular movies. A bench of Chief Justice of India S.A. Bobde and Justices A.S. Bopanna and V. Ramasubramanian sought a response within four weeks. The petitioner has challenged how Mirzapur has been portrayed as being full of terror, crime and other illegal activities in the fictional series, which he said had maligned its image as a city of Uttar Pradesh. According to the petitioner, Mirzapur has a high historical and cultural value. It was founded in the 17th century and by 1800 it became the greatest trading centre in northern India, Singh said. The Ganga meets the Vindhya range in Mirzapur. This is considered significant in Hindu mythology and has a mention in the Vedas. The world-famous Vindhyachal temple, one of the 108 shaktipeeths, is also situated in Mirzapur. Mirzapur is also famous for its carpet and brassware industry, the petitioner pointed out. According to the petition, emperor Ashoka created the Buddhist stupa and Ashok stambh (which is now the national symbol) from the red marbles of Mirzapur. Excel Entertainment’s two-part web series, however, depicts Mirzapur as a city of goons and an adulteress, the petition said. “It is shown in the series that (a) lady belonging to Mirzapur having sexual affair with her servant and with her father-in-law as well. By showing such ridiculous and shameless things on the name of a city/district is the insult of approx. 30 lakh population and rich culture of Mirzapur,” the petition says.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-395
22-01-2021||India||CRPF to induct women into CoBRA||The country’s largest paramilitary force — the CRPF — is planning to induct women personnel into its jungle warfare commando wing CoBRA, its director-general A.P. Maheshwari said on Thursday. “We are favourably considering inducting women in the CoBRA,” Maheswari said during a news conference. In 2008, the Centre had raised a 10,000-strong special force under the command and control of the CRPF to counter Maoists and equip them with Maoist intelligence techniques and strategy. The Combat Battalion for Resolute Action (CoBRA) team is deployed in Maoist-affected regions across the country. The CoBRA unit is headquartered in the National Capital Region and has its battalion headquarters in all Maoist-affected states. “CoBRA commandos get an incentive of 15 per cent above the salary that is normally drawn by a CRPF jawan,” said a CRPF official. At present, most CoBRA battalions are deployed in Bihar, Jharkhand, Chhattisgarh and Andhra Pradesh, the official said. The CRPF has had women personnel in combat since 1986 when its first “Mahila” battalion was raised. It has six such units now. The women troops are deployed across the country for rendering law-and-order duties, anti-Maoist operations and other operational tasks. The force, having a strength of about 3.25 lakh personnel, is the lead internal security combat unit and is also posted in Jammu and Kashmir for counter-terrorism operations.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-396
22-01-2021||India||Shiv Sena dares BJP on soldier insult ||BJP leaders did well to file cases against the makers of the Tandav web series but they would be “truly men” if they register cases also against Arnab Goswami who “insulted the martyrdom of Indian soldiers”, the Shiv Sena said on Thursday. The Sena, an estranged BJP ally that heads the government in Maharashtra, also referred to allegations made after the February 2019 Pulwama attack “that the killing of our soldiers was part of a political conspiracy... to win the Lok Sabha elections”. The Sena said that while the media creates a ballyhoo if someone is caught with 100 grams of ganja, it is not ready to hold a national debate on Goswami’s alleged act of treason. An editorial in Sena mouthpiece Saamana made these remarks in relation to the leak of purported WhatsApp chats between Republic TV managing director Goswami and Partho Dasgupta, then chief of TV ratings agency BARC. Messages attributed to Goswami and written immediately after the Pulwama attack, which killed 40 CRPF jawans, gloat about the “only channel with a ground presence” and say: “This attack we have won like crazy.” Another purported message from Goswami appears to suggest that one of the government’s objectives behind the Balakot operation was to gain popularity before the general election. Several BJP leaders recently filed cases against Tandav’s makers alleging the political drama ridicules Hindu deities. “It’s good that the BJP filed cases against the producer and director of Tandav in Uttar Pradesh and Bihar. But they (BJP leaders) will be truly men if the BJP files cases also against Goswami, who insulted the martyrdom of jawans,” the Saamana editorial says. “The souls of the Pulwama attack martyrs will find peace if there is discussion also on Goswami’s treason.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-396
22-01-2021||India||Poll ex-chiefs flag migrant voting hurdles||Three former chief election commissioners (CECs) have highlighted the challenges of extending voting facilities to migrants within and outside India. In the 2019 polls, a third of eligible voters did not vote, and most of these are believed to be migrant workers. The webinar by poll watchdog Association for Democratic Reforms (ADR) on “Voting Facilities for Migrant Workers” came almost two months after the Election Commission of India (EC) told the Union law ministry that a mere change in the rules by the government, which would not require an amendment by Parliament, could extend electronically transferable postal ballots to overseas voters. More than 25,000 such voters, mostly from northern Kerala, returned home and voted in the 2019 Lok Sabha polls. More than 1.36 crore Indian citizens live abroad, mostly in the Persian Gulf region. Former CEC S.Y. Quraishi questioned the double standard in allowing overseas migrants to vote in the countries they live in, while restricting the facility of voting away from one’s constituency only to the armed forces in India. However, he also pointed out the problems of allowing such a facility in India and abroad. “Migrants within the country are not disenfranchised. They are supposed to be registered where they are normally resident. The option to be registered at home (town), while living here (place of work) actually does not exist. It is a different matter that the EC has not been very strict about it,” said Quraishi. “Vote indicates political power. Where do I want political power? In my village or my workplace.… If workers from Bihar or Uttar Pradesh were not allowed to register in Delhi, no government would ever bother about them... no unauthorised colonies would be regularised. It is up to the voter to choose where he or she wants that particular power,” he added. Quraishi went on: “In Dubai or Kuwait or New York or Paris, we cannot ensure the model code of conduct.… We don’t have control over speech. You are giving them more options than domestic migrants.” India’s 22nd CEC, O.P. Rawat, said: “There is no accepted legal definition of migrant workers anywhere in the statute. Who will be taken as a migrant worker for enrolling and voting? We found that the labour ministry and other stakeholders concerned had no say on this major issue. Once such a definition is available, we can devise means for their voting wherever they are, if they choose so.” He added: “In many places they may be under the clutches of employers. They may be compelled by this person to vote according to his or her wishes. The EC would have to ensure that when identification takes place, somebody is present to ensure that the same person identified as the voter votes according to their free will.” Activists such as Gujarat-based Teesta Setalvad asked the EC to use rosters that are mandated under the Inter-State Migrant Workmen Act to enrol voters. Rajiv Khandelwal, the founder of the Aajeevika Bureau, alleged that the apathy of authorities in Gujarat over the recent deaths of 15 Rajasthani migrant workers in Surat in a traffic collision stemmed from the absence of political inclusion. “There was absolutely no local support (for the families of the deceased) except the local villagers. No political representation, no bureaucracy, no one to immediately be available at a time like this. It took the longest time to even identify the workers as they were not registered and had no formal proof of presence in the city. It took MLAs and sarpanches from Banaswada (Rajasthan) to show up in Surat to bring the bodies back.” He said most workers want voting rights in their place of work if they could also doubly retain their vote back home. Former CEC Nasim Zaidi praised the EC for exploring alternative methods of voting. “The only possible method (to allow domestic migrants to vote in their native places) is electronic postal ballots. The concept of national polling centres and district absentee voter centres (where this type of voting can be facilitated) is taking place in the EC. Migrant resident Indians (MRIs) need to be identifiable, distinct, countable and registered at the original place of residence and unable to travel back to vote.” ADR founder Jagdeep Chhokar said: “Why should the EC spend so much time, energy and effort to provide these facilities to NRIs without doing even a fraction of that for the MRIs?… I am aghast that the definition is a problem and we don’t know who has to define. That only shows that we don’t want to define.” Ashwani Kumar, professor of public policy at Mumbai’s Tata Institute of Social Sciences, pointed out that the number of migrant workers in the 2011 Census was 450 million and have been estimated to have risen to 580 million this year. Different studies show that 60 to 83 per cent failed to cast their vote in some election after moving from their hometowns, and 41 per cent of entries in Delhi’s electoral roll — considered the most accurate —  has errors. “There is a deep anti-migrant apathy especially at the BLO (booth-level officer) level,” he said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-396
22-01-2021||India||Government ready to shift Varavara to jail ward||The Maharashtra government told Bombay High Court on Thursday that the state was willing to shift jailed poet Varavara Rao to the prison ward of the JJ Hospital in Mumbai from a private facility. The ailing octogenarian poet-activist, who is an accused in the Elgar Parishad-Maoist links case, is admitted to the Nanavati Hospital in Mumbai. Earlier this week, the hospital authorities submitted a report in the high court stating that 81-year-old Rao was fit to be discharged. Once discharged from the Nanavati Hospital, Rao is to be sent back to the Taloja prison in Navi Mumbai, where he is lodged as an undertrial. On Thursday, state’s counsel Deepak Thakare, however, told the high court that the instructions from the state were that once discharged, Rao could instead be sent to the JJ Hospital’s prison ward. “His family members will be allowed to visit subject to the protocols, and the treatment which is given in Nanavati will continue,” Thakare told a bench of Justices S.S. Shinde and Manish Pitale. “These are my instructions, the rest is subject to ASG’s (the NIA’s counsel) arguments,” he said. Thakare said that following the court’s previous suggestion of taking a humane approach considering Rao’s advanced age, the state had taken the above decision. Earlier during the day’s hearing, senior counsel Indira Jaising had urged the bench to release Rao on bail and let him be with his family.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-396
22-01-2021||India||Can’t understand anything taught online: Runaway boy ||A 14-year-old boy ran away from his home in Gujarat’s Surat, leaving behind a note for his family that said he was not able to understand anything taught during the online classes of his school, police said on Thursday. The Class VIII boy left his home on Monday afternoon and reached his uncle’s place in Bhayandar near Mumbai, around 270km from his residence in Surat, they said. “During the probe, the police came to know that the boy and his parents lived in Bhayandar till around four years back and the teenager misses his friends there and does not feel comfortable in Surat,” inspector of Rander police station J.P. Jadeja said. The boy left his home in Surat when his parents were away. After failing to find him, his father lodged a missing person’s complaint at Rander police station, he said. Jadeja said that before leaving, the teen left a hand-written note that read: “Mummy and Papa, I troubled you a lot in the past. But now, I am going far away. I cannot understand anything which is taught through online classes. Sorry for all the trouble.” Except for Classes X and XII, schools in Gujarat have been imparting education through the online mode because of the coronavirus pandemic. “When we launched a search for the boy, his uncle, who still lives at Bhayandar, called the minor’s father on Wednesday to inform him that the boy had reached his place and was safe at home. After being informed about it, his parents have left Surat to meet him,” Jadeja said. The police, however, did not specify how the boy reached Bhayandar. The boy’s father is a small-time supplier of tobacco and food items in Surat.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-396
22-01-2021||India||Leaked letter bares booze warts in Bihar||A leaked letter by a superintendent of police flagging the complicity of excise officials, public representatives and police officers in flouting the liquor ban in Bihar has embarrassed the Nitish Kumar government. The January 6 letter by SP (prohibition) Rakesh Kumar Sinha, a 2012-batch IPS officer, was hurriedly withdrawn after the authorities noticed it circulating on social media on Tuesday. Sinha was quickly transferred. However, by Wednesday evening, even the letter withdrawing the earlier one had gone viral, leaving the government with more egg on its face. The Opposition has seized its chance to question Nitish’s seriousness about prohibition, a pet project he had introduced in 2016 through a legislation but whose implementation has run into a wall of corruption since the beginning. Sinha had marked his letter to all district and railway SPs, asking them to probe the movable and immovable properties of excise department officials. “People are selling and purchasing liquor in all police station areas across Bihar by bribing excise inspectors, sub-inspectors and constables. Local public representatives are also involved in it, due to which the liquor ban has become a joke,” the letter said. “If a probe is conducted into the movable and immovable assets acquired by these officials and their relatives, it will create a sensation in the government department.” It added: “Take necessary action after investigating the properties of these officials along with (those of) their relatives, and also probing the location of their mobile phones with those belonging to the liquor mafia to check the sale and purchase of alcohol.” Police sources said that after Sinha’s transfer, the officer who replaced him was asked to issue another letter withdrawing the previous one. Police headquarters has asked the DSP (administration) in the prohibition division, who is supposedly responsible for drafting and issuing letters, to explain “why the particular letter (Sinha’s) was issued without giving it a serious thought”. A deeply entrenched and well-heeled mafia has established liquor supply routes and an expansive distribution network in collusion with police and excise officials. Even some station house officers have been caught selling liquor. Rashtriya Janata Dal leader Tejashwi Prasad Yadav said: “The prohibition SP wrote to his counterparts in the districts that officials and public representatives are involved in selling liquor despite the ban. However, the liquor mafia with connections up to the CM House got the SP transferred. This is the real face of Nitish Kumar.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-396
