23-01-2021||India||Delhi police give permission to hold R-Day tractor rally||Farmers protesting against the Centre’s three new farm laws on Saturday claimed that the Delhi Police have given them permission  to hold their tractor parades on January 26 in the national capital. The tractor parades will start from the Ghazipur, Singhu and Tikri border points of Delhi, but details will be finalised tonight, farmer leader Abhimanyu Kohar said after attending a meeting between the unions and the police. Kohar claimed that the Delhi Police has given its nod to the farmers’ tractor parade on Republic Day in the national capital. Talking to reporters, another farmer leader Gurnam Singh Chaduni said that as thousands of farmers will participate in the parade, there will be no single route. Farmers have repeatedly ensured that the rally will remain peaceful, as some leaders have expressed concerns over it. Farmer leader Darshan Pal said that barricades set up at Delhi border points, will be removed on January 26 and farmers will take out tractor rallies after entering the national capital. Earlier in the day, 32 protesting unions met at the Singhu border near Delhi, a major protest site, to reconsider the government’s proposal to put the contentious legislations on hold. This comes a day after the government asked farmer leaders to revert by Saturday in case they agree to its proposal to suspend the laws for 18 months. Unlike the last 10 rounds of talks between the government and farmer leaders, the 11th round on Friday saw both sides hardening their positions. They could not even reach a decision on the next date for the meeting. The government asked farmer unions to revert by Saturday in case they agree to the suspension proposal and the talks can continue only thereafter.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-392
23-01-2021||India||Netaji would have been proud of today’s India, says PM||Prime Minister Narendra Modi, in the city on Saturday to honour the memory of Netaji Subhas Chandra Bose on his 125th birth anniversary, said the icon of the freedom movement would have been proud to see how strong the country had become. Speaking in the presence of Bengal chief minister Mamata Banerjee, governor Jagdeep Dhankar and other dignitaries at a programme held at Victoria Memorial, Modi said, "I sometimes wonder how Netaji would have felt if he had seen how a new and strong India is taking shape. " But Mamata did not deliver her speech after BJP supporters interrupted her with chants of “Jai Shri Ram”. "Government programmes should have some dignity," she said. "Don't insult me after calling me here. This is not a political programme. If you invite someone to a government programme, you should not insult them," Mamata said at the event, one of the rare occasions the Bengal chief minister shared the platform with the Prime Minister. In his speech, Modi said, Bose would have also been proud that the government he dreamt of was fighting a pandemic with vaccines developed by it and gave a befitting reply whenever its sovereignty was challenged. "I sometimes wonder how Netaji would have felt if he had seen how a new and strong India is taking shape," he said at the programme held to celebrate the day as 'Parakram Diwas'.
"Netaji had dreamt of a strong India, from LAC to LOC we are following his footsteps. Whenever our sovereignty was challenged, we have given a befitting reply," he said while adding that the country has a strong force and modern fighter aircraft such as Tejas and Rafale. Modi also released a commemorative stamp and coin on the occasion, saying that Bose’s birth anniversary will be celebrated as ‘Parakram Diwas’ every year. Before reaching the event at Victoria Memorial, the Prime Minister paid floral tributes at Netaji’s statue at the National Library in Calcutta. He also interacted with some of the artists as he went around seeing the paintings and folk art of Bengal. The Prime Minister also greeted participants in an international conference on “Revisiting the legacy of Netaji Subhas Chandra Bose” at Belvedere House to mark his 125th birth anniversary. Modi was at the National Library for 18 minutes, accompanied by governor Dhankar. Before this, the PM  visited Netaji’s ancestral house in the afternoon. There, he was greeted with chants of “Jai Shri Ram” by people waiting outside Netaji Bhawan in the Bhawanipore area. The PM also waved at them.  He was received at the entrance of the house by Sugato Bose and his brother Sumantro Bose, the freedom fighter’s grandnephews. Modi was shown the ‘Wanderer’ car, which Netaji used to escape from Calcutta to Gomoh, said Sugato Bose. The PM was also shown the bedrooms of Netaji and his brother Sarat Chandra Bose. Modi was also given a quick walkthrough of the museum, which houses photographs of the Azad Hind Fauj. The PM was also shown the table used by Netaji in Singapore. Hours before Modi arrived in the city, Mamata attacked the Centre for failing to declare the day a national holiday and build a memorial for the freedom fighter. "I protest the Centre's decision to not yet declare Netaji's birth anniversary as a national holiday. You are building a new Parliament and buying new planes... why no memorial for Netaji?" the chief minister said. With Assembly elections now only a few months away, the events of the day, particularly the one at Victoria Memorial, invited retorts and counter-retorts from members of the BJP and Trinamul Congress, ndtv.com reported. BJP IT cell chief Amit Malviya was the first off the block, alleging that Ms Banerjee had "insulted" the memory of Netaji and that "Bengal will not tolerate this disregard of its icons". "Mamata Banerjee insulted the legacy of Rabindranath Tagore by refusing to attend Viswa Bharati's centenary celebrations. She has done the same by not delivering her speech on the occasion of Netaji's anniversary celebrations," he declared. Trinamool MP Derek O'Brien hit back by tweeting the dictionary definition of the word 'dignity' and saying "you can(not) teach lumpens to be dignified".  "dignity (noun) The state or quality of being worthy of honour and respect. You can't teach 'dignity'. Nor can you teach lumpens to be dignified. Here is a one-min video of what exactly happened today. Including the dignified response by Mamata Banerjee," Mr O'Brien said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-392
23-01-2021||India||AAP MLA sent to prison for two years for assaulting AIIMS staff||AAP MLA and former Delhi minister Somnath Bharti was on Saturday sentenced to two years in jail by a court here in a 2016 case of assaulting the security staff at AIIMS and causing damage to hospital property. The ruling Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) in Delhi backed its MLA from Malviya Nagar, claiming that "injustice" has been meted out to him and expressed the hope that he will get justice at the appellate level. Additional Chief Metropolitan Magistrate Ravindra Kumar Pandey also imposed a fine of Rs one lakh on the Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) leader. "The court is of the considered view that the prosecution has duly proved its case beyond all reasonable doubt against accused Somnath Bharti," the magistrate said. The court, however, granted bail to Bharti enable him to file an appeal before the high court against his conviction in the case and jail term. According to the prosecution, on September 9, 2016, Bharti, along with nearly 300 others, brought down the fence of a boundary wall at the All India Institute of Medical Sciences (AIIMS) here with a JCB operator. The case was lodged on the basis of a complaint from R S Rawat, Chief Security Officer, AIIMS. The court convicted Bharti for various offences under the Indian Penal Code (IPC), including under sections 323 (voluntarily causing hurt), 353 (assault or use of criminal force to deter public servant from discharge of his duty) and 147 (rioting). It also held the AAP MLA guilty under section 3 (mischief causing damage to public property) of the Prevention of Damage to Public Property Act. The offences carry a maximum punishment of five years in jail. The court, however, acquitted Bharti's associates and co-accused -- Jagat Saini, Dileep Jha, Sandeep Sonu and Rakesh Pandey -- citing a lack of evidence against them. The case was lodged on the basis of a complaint from R S Rawat, Chief Security Officer, AIIMS. Bharti had told the court that police officials and other witnesses had deposed against him to falsely implicate him in the case. In its statement, the AAP said, "We respect the judiciary and have full faith in the judiciary. However, we feel injustice has happened to Mr Somnath Bharti in this case." The party said Bharti is filing an appeal. "We are confident that justice will be done to him at the appellate level," it said. "Somnath is a very popular leader and is loved by everyone in his constituency. He works 24 hours for his people. People are quite sad in his constituency as the news of his conviction is spreading," the AAP said. When contacted, Bharti said he does not want to comment after his party's statement. The AAP leader is not new to controversies. In 2014, as the law minister in the then Kejriwal government, he led a late-night vigilante raid against some African women, accusing them of being drug runners. In 2015, he was arrested in connection with a domestic violence case lodged by his wife. He was later cleared of the charge.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-392
23-01-2021||India||Farmers' meet underway to mull on govt proposal||A meeting of 32 Punjab farmer unions opposed to the Centre's farm laws is underway at the Singhu border here, a major protest site, to reconsider the government's proposal to put the contentious legislations on hold. This comes a day after the government asked farmer leaders to revert by Saturday in case they agree to its proposal to suspend the legislations for 18 months. Later in the day, a crucial meeting of the Samkyukt Kisan Morcha, an umbrella body of around 40 farmer organisations leading the protests at several Delhi border points, will be held. "The meeting of Punjab farmer unions is going on. A meeting of Samyukta Kisan Morcha will be held later in the day," said Lakhbir Singh, vice president (Punjab) of All India Kisan Sabha. Unlike the last 10 rounds of talks between the government and farmer leaders, the 11th round on Friday saw both sides hardening their positions. They could not even reach a decision on the next date for the meeting. The government asked farmer unions to revert by Saturday in case they agree to the suspension proposal and the talks can continue only thereafter. This followed a big climbdown made by the Centre in the last round of talks on Wednesday when it offered to suspend the laws for 1-1.5 years and form a joint committee to find solutions, in return for protesting farmers going back to their respective homes from Delhi borders. Farmer leaders, however, said they would settle for nothing less than a complete repeal of the laws, enacted in September last year, which they find pro-corporate, and a legal guarantee for the procurement of crops at government-fixed MSP (minimum support price). They also said their tractor parade will go ahead as per the plans on January 26 and unions have told the police that it is the government's responsibility to maintain peace. The farmer unions are adamant on taking out their tractor parade on Delhi's busy Outer Ring Road on January 26, even as the Delhi Police urged them to hold it outside the national capital, a request that was publicly rejected by the unions. A meeting between a group of farm leaders and police officers from Delhi, Haryana and Uttar Pradesh is scheduled later on Saturday to discuss alternative routes for the tractor parade. Talking to reporters after the meeting on Friday, Union Agriculture Minister Narendra Singh Tomar said the government has always maintained a sensitive approach towards farmers and their interest, but some forces were definitely at works to keep the agitation on and those forces certainly do not want farmers to benefit. "No resolution is possible when the sanctity of an agitation is lost," he had said while adding that no decision can be reached in the interest of the farmers if vested interests get an upper hand. Thousands of farmers, mostly from Punjab, Haryana and western Uttar Pradesh, have been camping at several Delhi border points since November 28 last year, demanding a repeal of three farm laws and a legal guarantee on MSP for their crops. Enacted in September last year, the three laws have been projected by the Centre as major reforms in the agriculture sector that will remove middlemen and allow farmers to sell their produce anywhere in the country. However, the protesting farmers have expressed their apprehension that the new laws would pave the way for eliminating the safety cushion of MSP and do away with the 'mandi' (wholesale market) system, leaving them at the mercy of big corporates.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-392
23-01-2021||India||Modi points finger at previous Assam govts for failing to protect land rights||Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Saturday castigated the previous governments in Assam for depriving its lakhs of poor indigenous people of their land rights. The BJP-led government in the state is committed to ensuring that the indigenous people have legal rights over their land, Modi said, after launching a drive to give ownership certificates to over one lakh families. Marking its launch, the prime minister distributed 'pattas' to 10 people at the historic 'Jerenga Pathar' here. "When the Sarbananda Sonowal government took over the reins in Assam, more than six lakh indigenous families had no legal rights over their land. In the last few years more than two lakh such families have been allotted ownership certificates. "With more than one lakh famiies added today, the government has shown its commitment to protecting the rights of the indigeneous people," Modi said. The previous governments in Assam never cared for the rights of those who "loved this sacred land", he said. The land ownership certificates (pattas) will guarantee their 'Swabhiman' (pride), Swadheenta (freedom) and Suraksha (protection). He asserted that the BJP-led government is committed to protecting the land, language and culture of the indigenous people. Referring to the celebration of 125th birth anniversary of Netaji Subhas Chandra Bose as 'Parakram Divas', the prime minister said the day "inspires hope and national pride". He also lauded the state government for having freed the world-famous Kaziranga National Park from encroachers.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-392
23-01-2021||India||R-Day parade entry only with invitation cards or tickets||Ahead of the Republic Day celebrations, the Delhi Police has issued an advisory, saying people will be allowed to watch the parade at Rajpath strictly on the production of an invitation card or a ticket. The police also said that those below 15 years of age will not be allowed at the event. "This year, Entry to RDC-2021 will be strictly through Invitation Card/Ticket only! All those, who don't have valid Invitation Card/Ticket are advised to watch live program at home. Children below 15 years age are not allowed to RDC-2021 at Rajpath," the Delhi Police said in a tweet. In another tweet, the police instructed the invitees not to carry bags, briefcases, pins, eatables, cameras, binoculars, handicams, electronic gadgets such as iPads, iPods, palm-top computers, laptops, computers, tablet computers, power-banks, digital diaries. The invitees have also been advised not to carry remote-controlled car keys (will be deposited at the facilitation counter), arms and ammunition, thermos flasks, water bottles, cigarettes, bidis, matchboxes, lighters, knives, razors, scissors, blades, wire pluckers, screwdrivers, alcohol, perfume spray, cans, daggers, swords, sharp-edged materials, fireworks, inflammable items, umbrellas, replica firearms or toy guns, tear guns, stun guns and explosives in any form. There will be no free entry to the programme this year, the police said. The national capital has been brought under an unprecedented ground-to-air security cover, with thousands of armed personnel keeping a tight vigil in view of the Republic day celebrations scheduled on January 26. Patrolling has been intensified in the busy market areas of the city. Security arrangements have also been tightened at the border areas in view of a proposed tractor parade by the farmers agitating against the Centre's new farm laws on January 26. Like the Independence Day function last year, all chairs in the enclosures at the Republic Day event at Rajpath will be placed following social-distancing norms in view of the COVID-19 pandemic. The crowd size has been brought down to 25,000 this year from around 1.25 lakh last year. The number of enclosures has also been halved to just 19.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-393
23-01-2021||India||India logs more than 14,000 cases, 152 casualties in a day||With 14,256 fresh cases, India's COVID-19 tally climbed to 1,06,39,684 on Saturday, while 1,03,00,838 patients have recuperated so far, pushing the national recovery rate to 96.81 per cent, according to the health ministry. There are 1,85,662 active cases of the coronavirus infection in the country currently, which accounts for only 1.78 per cent of the total caseload, according to data released by the ministry. The COVID-19 caseload has mounted to 1,06,39,684 and the death toll due to the disease has climbed to 1,53,184, with the novel coronavirus claiming 152 more lives in the country in a span of 24 hours, the data updated at 8 am showed. The COVID-19 case fatality rate stood at 1.44 per cent. According to the ICMR, a total of 19,09,85,119 samples have so far been tested for the viral disease in the country, including 8,37,095 on Friday. India's COVID-19 tally had crossed the 20-lakh mark on August 7 last year, the 30-lakh mark on August 23 and the 40-lakh mark on September 5. It went past 50 lakh on September 16 last year, 60 lakh on September 28, 70 lakh on October 11, 80 lakh on October 29, 90 lakh on November 20 and one crore on December 19. The 152 COVID-19 fatalities reported in the last 24 hours include 50 from Maharashtra, 19 from Kerala, eight each from West Bengal, Uttar Pradesh and Tamil Nadu and seven each from Delhi and Chhattisgarh. Maharashtra has so far reported the highest number of 50,684 deaths caused by the viral disease in the country, followed by Tamil Nadu (12,307), Karnataka (12,190), Delhi (10,789), West Bengal (10,097), Uttar Pradesh (8,605), Andhra Pradesh (7,146), Punjab (5,543) and Gujarat (4,374). The health ministry stressed that more than 70 per cent of the COVID-19 deaths in the country occurred due to comorbidities. "Our figures are being reconciled with the Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR)," the ministry said on its website, adding that a state-wise distribution of the figures is subject to further verification and reconciliation.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-393
23-01-2021||India||Fog lowers visibility in parts of Delhi, minimum temperature rises to 8 degrees Celsius||Delhi's minimum temperature rose to eight degrees Celsius on Saturday even as fog lowered visibility to 300 metres in some parts of the city, the India Meteorological Department (IMD) said. A fresh Western Disturbance (WD) affecting the western Himalayas provided some relief from the chill. The minimum temperature rose to eight degrees Celsius as a result of easterly winds and a cloud cover over the national capital, an IMD official said. Kuldeep Srivastava, the head of the IMD's regional forecasting centre, said easterly winds are not as cold as the northwesterly winds coming in from the snow-clad western Himalayas, while clouds trap some of the outgoing infrared radiation, pushing the minimum temperature up. However, the minimum temperature in Delhi will again drop to four degrees Celsius by Monday, Srivastava said. "The WD will lead to widespread snowfall in the upper hills of Jammu and Kashmir, Himachal Pradesh and Uttarakhand. Cold, dry winds from the snow-capped mountains will bring the mercury down to four degrees Celsius by Monday," he said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-393
23-01-2021||India||Farms laws enacted sneakily when people were battling Covid: Farmers||Had it been any other government, the farmers would have called off their protest after receiving an assurance that the contentious farm laws would be kept in abeyance for 18 months, believes Waryam Singh. “But not with this government,” the elderly farmer from Punjab’s Tarn Taran district stressed as he and fellow protesters sat around a fire on a chilly winter morning at the Singhu border. “Modi sarkar pe humko vishwas nahi hai (We don’t trust the Modi government),” he declared. It was a sentiment expressed widely across the protest epicentre on Friday —through posters, chants and effigies or just terse statements like Waryam’s; by sloganeering women marchers and contrite former Modi bhakts. Explaining their distrust, Waryam and several others cited how the Narendra Modi government had got the three “anti-farmer” laws enacted “chupke se” (sneakily) while the people were battling Covid-19. The laws were brought through ordinances in June when the country was in lockdown. Later, in September, the bills were rushed through Parliament by a much-contested voice vote. By then, BJP ally Akali Dal had pulled out its minister in protest against the bills and parties seen as friendly to the government had either opposed the bills or asked for them to be sent to the Select Committee in Parliament. “This is a ploy by the government,” Waryam said, implying the government’s promise to keep the laws in abeyance was an attempt to trick the farmers into ending their protest. “Hum yahan se hatne wale nahi hai: 2024 tak baithenge, lekin kanoon radd kiye bina ghar nahi lautenge (We won’t retreat. We’ll sit here till 2024 if necessary; we won’t return till the laws have been repealed),” said Rai Singh, a Jat farmer from Haryana. The next general election is due in 2024. On Thursday, the protesting farmers had rejected the government’s offer to suspend the implementation of the three laws, saying the 143 farmers “martyred” while protesting had died seeking repeal and not such half-measures. If the government had hoped the offer would mollify the farmers, it seems to have had the opposite effect. The farmers now feel the offer reflects how their agitation has forced the government into a climb-down, and that a final push would force it to repeal the laws. “If we withdraw now, it would mean victory for the government,” said Paramjit Singh, an activist from Chhattisgarh. The rejection of the government offer by the Samyukta Kisan Morcha, under whose banner the movement is being conducted, may have been driven by the mood at the protest sites, an office-bearer with a farm union who declined to be named suggested. “The protesters may have refused to withdraw the agitation,” he said, adding that the unions had sensed that the mood was for a “decisive battle”. The crowd was much larger on Friday at Singhu and appeared more determined, if that is possible. The women were especially visible with their chants against the “Modi sarkar”, “Khattar sarkar (Haryana government)”, “Adani-Ambani” and the RSS. As the farm union office-bearer was speaking, a procession of mostly women passed by carrying an effigy of Modi. “Look, this is the level of anger against the government,” he said. Asked why they wanted to burn an effigy of the Prime Minister, Jagdeep, a homemaker from Patiala, shot back: “Jab Pradhan Mantri humko maarna chahta hai to hum kya karen (What do we do when the Prime Minister wants to kill us)?” “People are dying here,” she said, “and we are being given date after date (for talks).” The farmers are furious that the government has been dragging the talks on — Friday witnessed the 11th round — while the death toll keeps rising among their ranks. Having had her say, Jagdeep hurried off to join the others shouting “Modi murdabad (Down with Modi)”. The loudspeakers too keep blaring attacks on Modi and the RSS, and the posters and wall paintings along the highways castigate the Prime Minister and his “corporate friends”, accusing them of planning to use the new laws to usurp the farm sector. Has the movement against the farm laws turned into a general sense of anger at Modi and the policies of his government? An elderly Baldev Singh, from a village near Amritsar, has no doubt that it has. “Modi jhooth bolta hai. Bola kisan ki kamaayi doguna karega aur kiya kya? Chupke se humko khatam karne ka kanoon laya (Modi tells lies. He promised to double the farmers’ income but what did he do? He brought in these laws surreptitiously to finish us),” he alleged. Nirmal Singh and several others from the knot of farmers with whom Baldev sat recalled the “note-bandi” (demonetisation), condemned it as “tanashahi” (dictatorship) and said everybody could now see what a fiasco it was. Rajkumar Danda, a Jat farmer from Jind, joined the conversation. He said he had been a “Modi bhakt” but not any more. “We were fed up with the Congress and saw a lot of hope in Modi. But now my faith in him has been shattered. If these laws are implemented, the farmers will be at the mercy of Adani and Ambani,” he said. Rajkumar and a friend, Baljit Singh, displayed the “pagdis” (turbans) they had worn as a mark of solidarity with their Sikh brethren from Punjab. Rajkumar said the BJP was trying to divide Punjab and Haryana but more and more farmers, mostly Jats from Haryana, were joining the agitation. Regular supplies of milk and vegetables from Haryana are helping sustain the protest, he said. “Jab tak ye pagdi sar par hai, hum hookah nahi peete (As long as I wear this turban, I’m not smoking),” Rajkumar said. Jat farmers are known to love their hookah while smoking is prohibited in Sikhism. “Ladai chalti rahegi jab tak kanoon radd nahi hote (The battle will continue till the laws are scrapped),” Rajkumar signed off.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-393
23-01-2021||India||Umar Khalid alleges 'vicious media campaign' against him||The “presumption of innocence” should not be destroyed at the threshold of the justice process through a “media trial”, a court said here on Friday on a plea from former JNU student Umar Khalid who alleged a “vicious media campaign” against him in a Delhi riot case. The court said the media had reported that Khalid had confessed his involvement in the riots but none of the news reports had clarified that such a statement, even if actually made, cannot be used by the prosecution as evidence. Khalid has said he has not signed the disclosure statement. The court noted that one news report began with the words “Radical Islamist and anti-Hindu Delhi riots accused Umar Khalid” and portrayed the entire Delhi riots as anti-Hindu riots despite all the communities having “felt the consequences” of the violence. “Such news items might show to the public at large that accused Umar Khalid had in fact confessed/ admitted his role in Delhi riots. However, it is the duty of the judicial system to decide a case on merits after trial,” chief metropolitan magistrate Dinesh Kumar said. “Considering the fact that the accused did not make any specific prayer in the application, I hope that the reporters would use self-regulation techniques.” Khalid’s plea says media reports have quoted from his alleged disclosure statement to claim he had confessed to involvement in the riots, and that this is prejudicing his right to a fair trial. He has stressed that the alleged disclosure statement, which is part of the chargesheet, clearly says the accused had “refused to sign” it. The court said a reporter should have basic knowledge of the law because the readers and viewers were not obliged to know the law and tended to take news reports as true without verification. “Therefore, it is the duty of the press and media to inform and educate its readers and viewers about all the relevant facts and circumstances of a news item published or shown on the news channel,” the court said. The court order said: “One of the basic principles of criminal jurisprudence is the presumption of innocence. This should not be destroyed at the very threshold through the process of media trial. “Protection of such presumption is essential for maintenance of the dignity of the courts and is one of the cardinal principles of the rule of law in a free, democratic country.” The court added: “Self-regulation is the best mode of regulation.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-393
23-01-2021||India||Partho-Arnab chats: Congress demands joint parliamentary committee investigation||If the Narendra Modi government was hoping to brush under the carpet the grave questions kicked up by leaked WhatsApp chats a week ago, the Congress Working Committee (CWC) on Friday chose to play spoilsport. The CWC demanded a time-bound investigation by a joint parliamentary committee (JPC) to punish the “treasonous behaviour” of those “exposed” by the purported chats between Republic TV managing director Arnab Goswami and the then BARC chief Partho Dasgupta. The CWC passed a resolution condemning the silence of Prime Minister Narendra Modi and others in the government. Their silence is proof of their collusion, complicity and guilt, the Congress said, adding that people in the highest echelons of the government were involved. Listing the areas of concern, the CWC resolution said: “It is clear that among those involved are persons in the highest echelons of the government and there has been a breach of secrecy concerning vital and sensitive military operations. The revelations also point to inexcusable and deliberate subversion of government structures, scandalous and extraneous influence over government policies, and a vicious attack on the independence of the judiciary.” The CWC sought the JPC inquiry into the “breach of national security, violations of the Official Secrets Act and the role of the persons involved”. Congress president Sonia Gandhi set the tone at the meeting by saying: “Very recently there have been very disturbing reports on how national security has been so thoroughly compromised. (Former defence minister) A.K. Antony had said that leaking of official secrets of military operations is treason. Yet the silence from the government’s side on what has been revealed has been deafening. Those who give certificates of patriotism and nationalism to others now stand totally exposed.” Sonia also expressed shock at the government’s “insensitivity and arrogance” on the farmers’ movement, demanding immediate repeal of the three laws in place of the charade of consultations. “It is abundantly clear that the three laws were prepared in haste and Parliament was consciously denied an opportunity to examine in any meaningful detail their implications and impact. Our position has been very clear from the very beginning: we reject them categorically because they will destroy the foundations of food security that are based on the three pillars of MSP, public procurement and PDS.” The CWC adopted a separate resolution on the subject, saying: “Crores of farmers are fighting a decisive battle to save their farms and fields against a diabolical onslaught by the Modi government determined to sacrifice their interests at the altar of a handful of crony industrialist friends. “Lakhs of farmers have been forced to sit on Delhi’s borders in bone-chilling cold, hailstorms and rains. According to the farmers’ organisations, 147 farmers have lost their lives. The Prime Minister and an arrogant BJP government refuse to feel their agony and anguish or listen to their cry for justice.” The resolution added: “Across the country, farmers and farm labourers have been protesting, taking out rallies, holding hunger strikes, conducting tractor yatras and extensive demonstrations, yet a tyrannical government continues to sidestep, malign, deceive and hoodwink them by attempting to tire out, intimidate and divide the farmers.” The CWC also adopted a resolution on the coronavirus inoculation process, expressing concern at the “complete lack of clarity about availability of the vaccine”, particularly for the underprivileged, disadvantaged and marginalised sections such as the Scheduled Castes, Scheduled Tribes and Other Backward Classes and the poor who should get it free.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-393
23-01-2021||India||Supreme Court allows video call by Kappan mom||The Supreme Court on Friday gave permission for the 90-year-old mother of Siddique Kappan, a Malayalam journalist lodged in a Mathura jail on what his family and colleagues say are false terror charges, to speak to her son through a video call. The apex court had initially wanted to direct the Uttar Pradesh government to allow videoconferencing facilities at the jail. But solicitor-general Tushar Mehta, appearing for the state, pleaded there was no need for such a direction as the administration was willing to provide the facility. Delhi-based journalist Kappan, 41, was arrested on October 5 while on his way to Hathras in Uttar Pradesh where a Dalit girl had been brutalised fatally. He was accused of being an extremist linked to the Popular Front of India and charged under the anti-terror law UAPA for allegedly trying to foment trouble. The Kerala Union of Working Journalists (KUWJ), which denies Kappan is a PFI member, had filed a habeas corpus petition saying the state government was not providing any information on him. During Friday’s brief hearing, KUWJ counsel Kapil Sibal told the bench that Kappan’s mother, who is in Kerala, wanted to speak to her son despite her fragile health. She frequently passes out, he added. “Please allow her the videoconferencing option so that she can see her son, at least. We have filed an application. Please allow us,” Sibal pleaded. Chief Justice S.A. Bobde, who headed the bench, immediately said “We will allow…” and proceeded to dictate an order when Mehta intervened. The bench, which included Justices A.S. Bopanna and V. Ramasubramanian, later adjourned the matter. Kappan, a native of Vengara in Malappuram, worked for the Malayalam news portal azhimukam.com in Delhi, where he is secretary of the local KUWJ unit. In its plea, the KUWJ has said: “The accused Kappan is a diabetic and was on medication; (he) was denied medicines and deprived of his right to sleep for the whole night from 6pm on 5.10.20 to 6am on 06.10.20 under the pretext of questioning.” It says Kappan was “badly slapped three times on his face after removing the spectacles (during) questioning by the local intelligence of police” and was beaten with a stick “on his thighs three times and was dragged in addition to mental torture”. The KUWJ has sought “an independent enquiry by a retired judge of this Hon’ble Court to determine the facts connected with the illegal arrest and detention”. Kappan’s family has been organising street dharnas in Kerala seeking his release.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-393
23-01-2021||India||Labour law protests to intensify||Ten central trade unions on Friday decided to intensify their agitation next month over four labour laws that the Narendra Modi government wants to enforce. The ministry of labour and employment is finalising the rules for the implementation of the Code on Wages, Code on Occupational Safety, Health and Working Conditions; Code on Industrial Relations and the Code on Social Security. A labour ministry official said the government was planning to implement the laws on February 1. The Indian National Trade Union Congress (Intuc), All India Trade Union Congress (Aituc) and the Centre of Indian Trade Unions (Citu) met in Delhi on Friday and decided to hold state-level agitations in February. “These laws are completely against workers’ interests. They will reduce the workers to slaves. They will have no bargaining power and no right to protest either,” Citu secretary A.R. Sindhu said. Aituc secretary Amarjeet Kaur said the unions would write to the International Labour Organisation citing lack of tripartite consultations over these laws and rules. The trade unions have been staying away from the rules-making process. A labour ministry official said the government would wait till January 27 for any comments from the trade unions, after which the rules would be finalised.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-393
23-01-2021||India||Congress defers leader elections to June ||The Congress hasn’t yet been able to resolve the leadership crisis after Rahul Gandhi’s resignation in July 2019, formally pushing the promised January deadline to elect the president to June after the meeting of its highest decision-making body on Friday. Although reasons such as ensuing Assembly elections and procedural matters were cited at the Congress Working Committee (CWC) meeting on Friday, it was clear that the process was going to be delayed because there was no consensus among the top leaders over the road map. Differences cropped up at the meeting as well when two groups of leaders sparred over the desirability of organisational elections. While some leaders, considered blind loyalists, felt there was no need for elections to the CWC or even to the post of party president and that everything should be left to Sonia Gandhi, others demanded immediate organisational polls, presenting it as a pre-requisite for the Congress’s revival. It is ironical that the top leadership is divided between two opinions: One section believes there is a leadership crisis and it has to be addressed at the earliest; the other seeks to portray that Rahul is the leader after all, no matter whether he holds any formal position or not. The dominant opinion, however, both within the Congress and in the larger Opposition camp is that the party is drifting rudderless and Rahul has caused immense damage to the anti-Modi politics by his vacillations. Even the so-called blind loyalists want Rahul to return sooner than later and privately admit that precious time and energy were being lost in this avoidable mess. Rahul hasn’t indicated his readiness to return, though he has been acting like the proxy president of the party. He will visit poll-bound Tamil Nadu on Saturday to resume the Congress campaign, as he would have done had he been the president. It was he who met a delegation from another poll-bound state, Kerala, last week, giving instructions on the action plan. Ask who would be the last word on poll-bound Bengal and Assam, the unanimous view is Rahul, not Sonia, who is more of a ceremonial head than functional president. But the irony for the party is that while it grapples with the leadership crisis, Rahul is said to be uninterested in returning as president. In fact the issue is much more complex than his desire to return as president. It is about the leadership structure, about his choices, about the role of entrenched veterans who have reservations over his style of functioning. Insiders know that Kamal Nath, seen as a neutral player, had been tasked by Sonia with resolving the differences with the “Group of 23” — the leaders who had written a letter to her about the drift in the party — but his mission failed. A reluctant Sonia was advised to continue for some more months as president as forcing any plan without evolving a consensus could trigger unseemly consequences. The announcement on Friday that the Congress will get an elected president by June reflects that thinking. The party’s election authority had suggested a schedule for May but some leaders felt the organisational elections should not affect the preparations for the upcoming Assembly polls. The earlier agreement was to complete the process by January-February and a section of the media had kept reporting that Rahul had agreed and would return as president by February. The June date means the party will remain without an active, functional head for five months, more so at a time when the ground realities are becoming hostile against the incumbent government and the absence of an effective Opposition is being discussed everywhere. While the state of confusion is demoralising for party workers, a senior leader told The Telegraph: “This is akin to the death wish at a time when the party has hit rock bottom and is struggling for survival.” Nobody — Rahul loyalists or critics — are happy with the delay. But a resolution is bound to be elusive without unity of purpose. The state of affairs in the Congress was reflected in the nature of discussions at Friday’s meeting. Rajasthan chief minister Ashok Gehlot burst out at those seeking organisational elections, asking if these people had lost faith in the party president. He pointed out that leaders who always held key positions because of the blessings of the party president were now asking for internal elections, subtly questioning the personal capacities of these leaders. This evoked a sharp response from Anand Sharma, who wondered why they were being insulted for suggesting reforms to strengthen the party. He recalled how he had worked with Indira Gandhi and Rajiv Gandhi and their loyalty was now being questioned after decades of service. Sharma was not alone in asking for organisational elections as veterans such as Ghulam Nabi Azad and P. Chidambaram also sought polls to both the CWC and the central election committee.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-393
23-01-2021||India||Agri minister blames 'external force' for preventing early farmer resolution||Agriculture minister Narendra Singh Tomar on Friday blamed an “external force” for preventing an early resolution of the standoff with the farmers, speaking after the farm unions rejected the government’s offer to keep the three contentious laws in abeyance for 18 months instead of repealing them. Briefing reporters after a meeting with farmers that ran into several hours but saw very little conversation, Tomar said some external force was trying to ensure the agitation continued, once again bringing up a conspiracy theory that the government’s supporters have repeatedly invoked since the protesting farmers began gathering near Delhi’s borders from end-November. He sidestepped the question whether he saw a division among the farmers since some were in favour of accepting the government’s latest offer. “We should remain hopeful. Let’s wait till tomorrow for the unions’ final decision,” he added. Ministers have told the union leaders to reconsider and convey their response by noon on Saturday, after which a date for another meeting can be fixed. This is the first time in 11 such meetings that the negotiations have ended without a date being set for the next meeting. At Friday’s talks, the government’s main interlocutors — Tomar and food minister Piyush Goyal — expressed displeasure at the Samyukta Kisan Morcha announcing to the media its rejection of the Centre’s proposal on Thursday before communicating it to the ministers. The government also said that the 18-month abeyance was the maximum it could offer, but the farmers stuck to their demand for repeal of the three laws. Yogendra Yadav of the Jai Kisan Andolan said the dialogue had broken down and the farmers were now preparing for the “kisan parade”, which is to feature a tractor rally in Delhi on Republic Day. While the other union leaders stopped short of saying the talks had broken down, they were indeed focused on preparing for the parade. Some of them met the Delhi police commissioner in the evening to chalk out the route. According to Darshan Pal of the Krantikari Kisan Union, a route map the police have suggested will be discussed with other union leaders on Saturday. Explaining why the farmers had refused the latest offer, Yadav said the question was what would happen after the 18 months were over. He also cited how the farmers had time and again rejected the idea of referring the dispute to a committee. “Once we lift this protest, it will not be easy to build such a movement again. And then the government can, after 18 months, implement these very laws saying the committee had said all was well with the laws,” Yadav said. The All India Kisan Sabha (AIKS) questioned the legal basis for the proposal, underlining that the Constitution had no provision for keeping a law in abeyance after the date of implementation had been notified and the rules framed. Former Lok sabha secretary-general P.D.T. Achary endorsed this view to The Telegraph. Bureaucrat turned politician Yashwant Sinha too tweeted: “Govt does not have the power to keep a law passed by Parliament in abeyance specially when its rules have been notified. Such a law can only be repealed.” However, a union leader said the impression the ministers had given while making the offer on Wednesday was that the government would either furnish an affidavit in court on the 18-month freeze or appeal to the court to extend its stay on the laws’ implementation.AIKS president Ashok Dhawale and general secretary Hannan Mollah asked why, if the government could agree to keep the laws in abeyance for 18 months, it could not agree to repealing them and enacting new laws to protect farmers’ interests. Now that the government has managed to create a slight difference of opinion among the unions with its offer, the farmer leaders feel, the ministers have hardened their stance hoping to drive a further wedge into the movement. Of the 32 Punjab unions, 15 were in favour of considering the offer but with different caveats, with some favouring a longer period of suspension. Most were, however, agreed that the offer could be accepted only if an ordinance was issued guaranteeing a minimum support price for 23 crops. Given the enthusiasm across Punjab for the farmers’ Republic Day parade, union leaders feel they can paper over these differences for now, especially since the groundswell of support for the movement would make it difficult for any leader to break away. Even the dissenters say they are ready to go along with the majority view, which favours rejecting the government’s offer.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-393
23-01-2021||India||Criticise Nitish Kumar govt on social media, land in jail ||Criticising the state government, ministers, MLAs, MPs or officials on social media can now cause people to be arrested in Bihar, courtesy a recent executive decision. Nitish Kumar’s administration has brought under the ambit of cyber crime “objectionable comments” by individuals or organisations against the government and its functionaries and lawmakers, provoking Opposition charges of curbing free speech. The move comes six years after the Supreme Court struck down Section 66A of the IT Act, which criminalised “offensive” online comments, on the ground that it violated the constitutional right to free expression. On Thursday, the economic offences unit (EOU) of Bihar police, which is also the nodal agency to tackle cyber crime, asked senior government officials to provide detailed information if they come across “objectionable comments made by undesirable persons or organisations against the Bihar government on the social media or the Internet, so that effective action could be taken against them as per the law”. “Such information are continuously coming to light that some persons or organisations are making objectionable or indecent and misleading comments against the government, honourable ministers, MPs, MLAs and government officers,” says the letter from EOU additional director-general Nayyar Hasnain Khan to principal secretaries and secretaries. “This is against the law and comes in the category of cyber crime. It seems appropriate to take action against such people and groups in accordance with the law.” Khan told The Telegraph the move had become necessary because of the increasing “misuse” of the social media. Asked who would decide whether a remark was objectionable or indecent, Khan said: “There are clear-cut provisions in the IT Act about social media abuse. We will also use the Indian Penal Code sections. The EOU will investigate the complaints on the basis of these laws. The complaints will be routed through the departmental heads (principal secretaries or secretaries).” The EOU comes under the home department, currently held by Nitish. The chief minister has been facing criticism from the public over the worsening law and order. Apart from protesting the threat to freedom of expression, Opposition leaders have expressed concern that a police force widely seen as biased and corrupt would now investigate netizens complaining against the government, lawmakers or officials. “Nitish Kumar is walking in the footsteps of Hitler. He is a creator of 60 scams, the patron of infamous criminals and a weak head of an unethical and illegal government,” RJD leader Tejashwi Yadav said on Friday. “The Bihar police sell liquor, protect criminals and implicate the innocent. I challenge the chief minister to arrest me under his latest order.” Congress MLC Prem Chandra Mishra said the EOU letter had shown up “a government that is afraid of criticism and is worried over its failures”. “Critics will be jailed and the police, who cannot catch criminals, will be misused. We don’t support indecent comments but 90 per cent of BJP leaders and many JDU leaders will have to be imprisoned for making derogatory remarks if proper action is taken.” Deputy chief minister and BJP leader Tarkishore Prasad defended the government move. “Many negative things are being circulated on social media that are wholly unconnected with reality. We must curb them,” he said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-394
23-01-2021||India||1.2 lakh to sit for national Bar exam to be held on January 24||The Bar Council of India (BCI), the regulatory body for legal education and advocates, on Friday announced that approximately 1.2 lakh advocates would appear for the All India Bar Exam to be held on January 24. The examination is to be held at about 154 centres in 52 cities. The AIBE is mandatory for all advocates who have passed out after 2010 to begin legal practice. The exams are held to weed out non-serious advocates and ensure that they have a minimum standard of advocacy skills. Exams at nine centres had been cancelled last time because of the use of unfair means by candidates. This time, the candidates who had appeared from those centres have been allowed to take the test from other centres. No fees have been charged. The use of mobile phones and other electronic gadgets are not allowed during the exam. As an additional measure, signal jammers shall be used at approximately 50 centres to ensure that no one in the vicinity is able to use phones or gadgets, BCI secretary Srimanto Sen said in a statement on Friday. Owing to the pandemic, he said, the period between March 24, 2020, and March 31, 2021, has been exempted from the two-year period from enrolment within which an advocate has to appear in the exam.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-394
23-01-2021||India||Centre tells SC: no extra chance for civil service aspirants||The Centre told the Supreme Court on Friday that it would not be possible to offer an “extra chance” to those who could not appear for the civil services exams last October, dealing a blow to aspirants who could not take the tests because of the pandemic. “Yesterday night, I received information from the government that they are not agreeable. I would want to put this on affidavit in a week,” additional solicitor-general A.V.S. Raju told a bench of Justices A.M. Khanwilkar, B.R. Gavai and Krishna Murari. The bench, while directing Raju to place the stand through an affidavit, posted the matter for further hearing to Monday. The Centre’s stand has belied the expectations of hundreds of aspirants as the government during the earlier hearings had given the impression that a positive approach would be adopted. On December 18, solicitor-general Tushar Mehta had informed the court that the Union Public Service Commission (UPSC) was in the process of examining the plea for the conduct of a second round of IAS, IPS and IFS exams for those candidates who could not appear on October 4 due to Covid-19-related problems. The bench had recorded an undertaking from Mehta while dealing with a petition filed by some aspirants seeking the conduct of fresh exams. “Learned solicitor-general, on instructions, submits that the central government as well as the Union Public Service Commission are in the process of taking appropriate decision in respect of proposal in reference to the sentiments expressed by this court in an order dated 30.09.2020…. List the matter on 11th January, 2021,” the bench had said in an order. On September 30 last year, the court had asked the government and the UPSC to consider the plea of some candidates for a fresh round of exams for the affected students but had permitted the UPSC to go ahead with the October 4 civil services exams, rejecting the appeal of a batch of students for postponement of the exams by two-three months. The court had, however, directed that the authorities adopt all precautionary steps and standard operating procedures (SoP) evolved by the health ministry, including ensuring that no Covid-positive candidate is allowed to take the exams and limiting the number of candidates per centre to 100. The bench had also rejected the plea of the candidates for merger of the 2020 civil services main exams with the 2021 preliminary exams, which is tentatively scheduled for June 27. The UPSC had earlier turned down a plea for the cancellation of the 2020 civil services exams on the ground that the government had incurred an enormous expenditure for the conduct of the exams at 72 centres and over 2,500 sub-centres across the country and taken all necessary precautions. While accepting the UPSC’s plea, the court had, however, suggested that the commission and the Centre consider the idea of giving an additional chance to those candidates who would miss their last attempt owing to the pandemic.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-394
