24-01-2021||India||PM Modi: need to defeat ‘network of lies’ COVID-19 vaccination||Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Sunday stressed that the Indian scientists have done their duty by developing the COVID-19 vaccine and “now we have to fulfil ours” by defeating lies and rumours related to the vaccination programme by spreading the right information. Addressing tribal guests, National Cadet Corps (NCC) cadets, National Service Scheme (NSS) volunteers and tableaux artists who would be a part of the upcoming Republic Day parade, Modi said such youth organisations have always played a role in dealing with challenging times. “In COVID times also, the work done by you is laudable. When the government and administration needed it, you came forward as volunteers and provided help,” he said at the At Home’ event. “Whether it was spreading awareness about the Aarogya Setu App or coronavirus infection spread, the work done by you was praiseworthy,” Modi said. The prime minister said the youths should now step forward to assist in the COVID-19 vaccination programme by providing the right information to the people. “You need to take it to the next level now. Your reach is in all parts of society. I request you to come forward to help the country with the COVID-19 vaccination programme. You have to provide the right information on vaccines to the poor and general public,” Modi said. “Indian scientists have done their duty by developing the coronavirus vaccine and now we have to fulfil ours. We have to defeat every network spreading lies and rumours with the right information,” Modi said. He also mentioned that India will achieve self-reliance by the actions of the youth who have to be armed with necessary skills. “India will not become ‘aatmanirbhar’ (self-reliant) just by somebody saying so, it will become so by the actions of youths like you. You will be able to do this better when you will have the necessary skill set,” Modi said. Realising the importance of this, the ministry of skill development was formed when his government came in 2014 and more than 5.5 crore youths have been given training for different skills till now, Modi said. Under the skill development programme, not just training, but also help is being provided for self-employment and employment, the prime minister said. The aim is that the youths in India get new employment opportunities based on their skill sets, Modi said. This focus on skill development is evident in the new National Education Policy where the application of knowledge is stressed upon, he said, adding that flexibility in choosing subjects is a key aspect of the policy. The policy marks the first serious effort to bring vocation education into the mainstream of education, Modi said. From class six onwards, students will have the option of selecting a course in line with their interests and local needs and business, he said. Later at the middle level also, an integration of academic and vocational subjects are proposed, the prime minister pointed out. Modi told his young guests that India is an embodiment of the collective strength of the aspirations of its countrymen. He said India means “many states-one nation, many communities -one emotion, many paths-one goal, many customs-one value, many languages-one expression and many colours-one tricolor”. Modi appealed to the young guests from various parts of the country to work towards raising awareness about each other's customs, cuisine, languages and art. The prime minister said that ‘Ek Bharat-Shreshth Bharat’ sentiment will give strength to the local for vocal movement. “When one region will feel pride in the product of the other region and will promote it, only then the local product will have a national and global reach. The success of ‘vocal for local’ and ‘Aatamnirbhar Abhiyan’ is dependent on our youth,” Modi said. The prime minister said the participation of the tribal guests, artists and the NSS and NCC cadets in the Republic Day Parade fills every citizen with energy and their display of the country's rich diversity evokes a feeling of pride. The Republic Day Parade is a tribute to India’s great socio-cultural heritage and to the Constitution that gives life to the world’s biggest democracy, Modi said. He noted that this year India enters the 75th year of independence, celebrates the 400th Prakash Purab of Guru Teg Bahadur and also marks the 125th birth anniversary celebrations of Netaji Subhas Chandra Bose. “These events inspire us to rededicate ourselves to the cause of the country,” the prime minister said. Union Ministers Rajnath Singh, Arjun Munda, Kiren Rijuju and Renuka Singh Saruta were among those present. “Today, very special people came to 7, Lok Kalyan Marg. Had a wonderful interaction with NCC Cadets, NSS Volunteers, Tableaux Artists and youngsters from tribal communities,” the prime minister tweeted after the event.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-390
24-01-2021||India||Many ‘khaps’ from Haryana to join farmers’ R-Day tractor parade in Delhi||Several khap panchayats have decided to join the proposed farmers’ Republic Day tractor parade in Delhi. Over thousands of tractors have been spotted leaving various caste councils’ villages for the national capital on Sunday. About 1,500 tractors from villages under the Kandela khap set out on Sunday for the ‘tractor parade’ in Delhi, Khap head Tekram Kandela informed. “We have started from Jind. We will be proceeding in a peaceful and orderly manner and follow the route allotted by the authorities for the parade,” Kandela said. The Kandela khap, which had spearheaded a farmers’ agitation in Haryana nearly two decades ago, has lent its support to farmers against the new farm laws. It’s not just Kandela, several other khaps’ too have extended their support for the farmers’ agitation against the new farm laws. Tekram Kandela maintained that his Kandela khap had recently adopted four resolutions at a khap panchayat for repealing the three farm laws, giving a legal guarantee of crop MSP, waiving the farm loans and implementing the Swaminathan Commission recommendations. Independent MLA from Dadri in Haryana, Sombir Sangwan, who also heads the Sangwan khap said thousands of farmers in their tractors were starting for various border points of Delhi to take part in the ‘tractor parade’. Sangwan said about 200 ‘khaps’ from Haryana and elsewhere have lent their support to make the ‘tractor parade’ a success. “Several khaps are taking part in the tractor parade. They are actively involved and farmers have their full support,” he said. Sangwan, who recently withdrew his support from the Khattar government over farmers’ issue, said, “The Centre should repeal the laws and agree to the farmers demands.” Apart from Punjab, thousands of farmers from Haryana on Sunday set out in their tractor-trolleys and other vehicles to take part in the proposed tractor parade. In addition to the flag of their farmers’ union, many tractors were sporting large-size national flags too. A few villages in Jind, Kurukshetra and some other districts have said farmers of their villages would cover any loss caused by damage to tractors while they participate in the ‘tractor parade’. Thousands of tractors were seen on Haryana’s highways on Sunday as a large number of farmers from Punjab are also on their way to Delhi's border points to take part in the tractor rally. A 71-year-old Ludhiana resident, Mahender Singh, also known as ‘marathon man’, was seen on Saturday marching on the Patiala-Jind national highway on his way to Tikri border protest site. “I am a common man, but I thought if we don’t raise our voice today, then coming generations will curse us. We have to put pressure on the government to repeal the farm laws,” Singh told reporters, while on the march with a ‘Kisan Ekta Zindabad’ poster. I have told my family that I will return only after these laws are repealed, said Singh. With various groups of farmers taking breaks at various places on way to Delhi, volunteers served tea and eatables to them. Serving tea to farmers since Sunday morning, a volunteer in Bahadurgarh said thousands of farmers with tractors were reaching for the tractor parade. Many farmers’ leaders said the proposed tractor parade would be massive. There would be few lakh tractors in this parade, but I cannot give any estimate as still so many are starting from their villages, he said. The farmer unions protesting the Centre’s farm laws had said they would go ahead with their tractor parade in Delhi on the Republic Day. Earlier, at many places in Punjab and Haryana, tractor marches were taken out to mobilise more people for the tractor parade. Thousands of farmers from Punjab and Haryana have been camping at Delhi's borders for several weeks, demanding the repeal of the farm laws and a legal guarantee on the minimum support price for crops. They claim that the new laws will weaken the MSP system. But the Centre says the MSP system will remain and the new laws only provide more options for farmers to sell their produce.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-390
24-01-2021||India||300 Twitter handles generated in Pak  to disrupt tractor parade: Delhi police||On Sunday Delhi Police while granting permission to the protesting farmers to go ahead with the proposed tractor rally, claimed to have identified over 300 Twitter handles that have been generated from Pakistan to disrupt the tractor rally proposed by protesting farmers on Republic Day. Detailing the plan for the tractor parade, Deependra Pathak, Special Commissioner of Police (Intelligence) mentioned that the Tuesday rally will be conducted amid tight security after the Republic Day celebrations conclude. While addressing a press conference, Pathak said, “Over 300 twitter handles have been generated from Pakistan during January 13 to 18 to disrupt the farmers’ tractor rally by misleading people. There are inputs about the same from different agencies too. It will be a challenging task for us but the rally will be conducted amid tight security after the Republic Day parade is over.” Since November last year, farmers, mostly from Punjab and Haryana, have been protesting against the Centre’s three new agriculture laws at several Delhi border points, including Singhu, Tikri and Ghazipur, demanding that the legislations be repealed. While police tried to convince the farmer leaders to hold their tractor parade outside the national capital, they were adamant on holding it on Delhi’s busy Outer Ring Road. It was during the fourth round of meeting which was held on Friday, between the farmer unions and police officers from Delhi, Haryana and Uttar Pradesh, that both the sides reached an agreement. However, with the Delhi Police giving permission for the Kisan tractor rally despite underlining the possibility of Pakistan disrupting the proposed rally, more batches of farmers from Punjab on Sunday set out for Delhi to participate in the tractor parade on January 26. A batch of 500 tractors-trolleys left Amritsar and several groups of growers from Phagwara, Hoshiarpur and other places of Punjab moved towards the national capital to take part in the tractor parade, farmer leaders claimed. Kisan Sangharsh Union leader Baldev Singh Verka in Amritsar said, “Today as many as 500 more tractor trolleys left for Delhi to join the tractor parade. Each tractor-trolley will carry 20 persons along with bedding and eating arrangement for a fourteen hour-long journey to Delhi.” According to Gurbachan Singh Chabba, spokesperson of the Kisan Sangarsh Committee around 12,000 tractors and trolleys had already left Amritsar and Tarn districts. While most of the tractor convoys from Doaba region had left for Delhi on Friday and Saturday, many left on Sunday also to take part in the tractor parade, said Satnam Singh Sahni, General Secretary Bharti Kisan Union (Doaba). Sahni, who returned here from Delhi's Singhu border on Saturday night to further mobilise farmers for the parade, maintained that a total of around 10,000 tractors from Doaba region will be joining the parade to highlight the agitating farmers’ demands and the "stubborn" attitude of the central government towards them. “It will also be a show of strength by farmers and farm workers,” said Sahni. Arrangements for ‘langar’ have been made at several places on the national highway for the farmers travelling to the national capital. A sea of tractors could be seen on the highway as they carried the Tricolour and flag of farmers’ unions. The protesting farmers claim that the new farm laws will weaken the MSP system. But the Centre has assured that the MSP system would remain while the new laws would only provide more options for farmers to sell their produce.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-390
24-01-2021||India||Sign language: connecting participants of R-Day camp||A form of talking to one another, just without the voice. Sign language has worked as a bridge of communication for not only people with hearing and speech disabilities over the years, but also for those who can speak and hear, at a time when masks have hidden facial expressions and social distancing is the new normal. To honour its potential, the language of hand gestures will be used by various contingents at this year’s Republic Day Parade in New Delhi, along with Bengali, Gujarati, Tamil, Ladakhi, Assamese and other such Indian languages. A group of 12 youngsters from the Indian Sign Language Research and Training Centre (ISLRTC), in their matching blue uniforms, can be seen interacting with each other and with members of other tableaux contingents on the premises of the camp at Delhi Cantonment. Delhi-based ISLRTC, under the Ministry of Social Justice and Empowerment, conducts courses for developing Indian sign languages interpreters and teachers and provides interpretation services for various events. "This year, the ministry's tableau will represent our institution and all the boys and girls who are part of it are very excited. They may not be able to tell that verbally, but through non-verbal gestures they have conveyed their joy," said Shavita Sharma of the institution. While craftsmen are giving finishing touches to the ISLRTC's tableau, which has huge models of a few hands folded in interpretive gestures, letters and other elements, its members are using the camp time to bond with others, transcending all linguistic barriers. The theme of the tableau is 'Bharatiya Sanketik Bhasha: Ek Rashtra, Ek Sanketik Bhasha'. Pankaj Kumar, who hails from Dholpur Rajasthan, was doing his course at ISLRTC online due to Covid-19 restrictions and was happy to physically attend the camp and experience the country's diversity in one place. Gargi, 21, who has finished a course in D.Ed (Hearing Impairment), helps him and others with hearing disabilities in communicating with people who can hear. "I am getting trained at the institute and it's a very different experience, sometimes the language is not that we can hear, but we can feel. We may speak a language very fluently, but the society also needs a language of empathy for people with any disability," she said. Gargi, even while interacting with staff at the camp canteen, uses sign language along with verbal communication. She is getting trained in sign language by persons with hearing disability at the institute. "It's also my language now and I am proud of it. Gestures speak when words fail," she told PTI. Sharma of the ISLRTC said due to COVID-19 everyone is wearing a mask and so it is difficult for those with hearing disabilities to communicate as "they can't see facial expressions". "So, at many places outside, transparent masks were introduced so they could understand and interpret the lips movement and facial expressions," she said. The camp has a diverse set of contingents and at times language becomes a barrier between people from different regions of the country when it comes to communicating thoughts. "But sign language is universal. Two deaf persons from foreign countries can immediately talk to each other, but say an Indian and a Chinese person may need help of an interpreter. And even members of other states and other tableaux contingents have bonded with our students, especially the CRPF personnel, who also sometimes use non-verbal communication," she added.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-390
24-01-2021||India||EC to launch downloadable e-version of voter card on Monday||Law Minister Ravi Shankar Prasad will on Monday launch the electronic version of the voter identity card which can be downloaded on a mobile phone or a personal computer. The e-elector photo identity card is a non-editable digital version of the elector photo identity card and it can be saved in facilities such as digital locker and can be printed in the PDF format, Election Commission officials said. "Union minister Ravi Shankar Prasad will launch the e-EPIC programme and distribute e-EPICs and Elector Photo Identity Cards to five new voters," a Commission statement said on Sunday. The physical card takes time to print and reach the voter, and the idea is to provide faster delivery and easy accessibility to the document, the statement said. The Aadhaar card, Permanent Account Number (PAN) card and driving licence are available in digital mode. Introduced in 1993, the elector photo identity cards are acceptable as proof of identity and address. The e-version of the voter card is being launched to mark the anniversary of the Election Commission. The EC came into being on January 25, 1950, a day before India became a republic. For the past few years, January 25 is also observed as National Voters' Day.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-390
24-01-2021||India||Maharashtra farmers mobilise to reach Mumbai for rally||Thousands of farmers from different districts of Maharashtra have started their journey to state capital Mumbai, to participate in a rally at the Azad Maidan in Mumbai on Monday against the Centre’s three new farm laws. The All India Kisan Sabha’s (AIKS) Maharashtra unit in a statement said around 15,000 farmers set out for the state capital from Nashik on Saturday in several tempos and other vehicles. On Monday, NCP chief Sharad Pawar and some other prominent leaders of the ruling Maha Vikas Aghadi (MVA) in the state will address the rally, the release said. Police have stepped up security at the venue in south Mumbai and personnel of the State Reserve Police Force (SRPF) have also been deployed there. Drones will also be used to keep an eye on the event, a police official said. The state Congress unit, which is an ally of the MVA, has already extended its support to the protest. Farmers from various places gathered in Nashik and left from there on Saturday. Many peasants also joined them on the way, the AIKS said. They halted at Ghatandevi near Igatpuri hill town for overnight stay. On Sunday morning, a number of peasants marched down the Kasara Ghat to head for Mumbai, while many left in vehicles. “The rally is being held to support and expand the two-month-long farmers' struggle in Delhi for a repeal of the three farm laws and for a central law to guarantee a remunerative Minimum Support Price (MSP) and procurement all over the country,” the statement said. The Samyukta Kisan Morcha, a pro-farmer body, has given a nationwide call for a struggle from January 23 to 26, including rallies to Raj Bhavans (governor houses) in states. Accordingly, over 100 organisations came together and formed the Samyukta Shetkari Kamgar Morcha (SSKM), Maharashtra, in a meeting held in Mumbai on January 12. The SSKM has called for a joint sit-in at the Azad Maidan here from January 24 to 26. On January 25, there will be a public meeting at 11 am, the release said. Besides NCP chief Pawar, state Congress president and revenue minister Balasaheb Thorat, and Shiv Sena leader and state tourism minister Aaditya Thackeray will also address the rally, it said. Later, the protesters will march to the Raj Bhavan and submit a memorandum to Governor B S Koshyari. The main demands of the protesters include repeal of the three "anti-farmer" laws, and a central law guaranteeing remunerative MSP and procurement, the release said. The protesters have also decided to hoist the national flag at the Azad Maidan on the occasion of the Republic day on January 26, and take a pledge to make the struggle of peasants and workers successful, it added. Meanwhile, security has been beefed up at the venue ahead of the rally, a police official said. Apart from personnel of the Mumbai Police, nine platoons of the SRPF are being deployed at the Azad Maidan, he said, adding that drones will also be used. Additional police force, including 100 officers and 500 constables, will also be deployed at the venue, he added.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-390
24-01-2021||India||BJP committed to protect culture, language of Assamese communities, says Shah||Union Home Minister Amit Shah on Sunday asserted that the Bodoland Territorial Region Accord (BTR), inked a year ago, has initiated the process of ending insurgency in the northeast. Political rights, culture and language of all communities of Assam are secure under the BJP government, he insisted. "The prime minister was in Assam on Saturday, and he distributed land pattas (certificates) to more than one lakh indigenous people. The state government has already made Bodo the associate language of Assam. "Several measures have been taken to protect, preserve and promote the rich culture, language and heritage of all communities of the state," the Union minister said. Only the BJP, under the leadership of Narendra Modi, can make Assam corruption-free, terrorism-free and pollution- free, Shah maintained. Attacking the Congress, Shah said that the grand old party had signed many agreements with different militant outfits in the past, but failed to keep the promises it made.  "I have come here to iterate that Prime Minister Narendra Modi and the BJP are committed to fulfil the clauses of the BTR Accord, which will pave the way for peace and development in the region. It marks the beginning of the end of insurgency in the region. "As the Home Minister, and a representative of the prime minister, I assure you all that the region (Bodoland) that once witnessed killings, kidnappings and violence will emerge as the most developed part of Assam," Shah said. The Congress, during its rule, could not quell violence and bring peace, "but it would not refrain from giving us advice", the top BJP leader said during his address here on the occasion of BTR Accord Day. "I want to ask the Congress what did it do during its tenure to bring peace and development? The PM (Modi) makes promises and fulfils it. We have had enough of violence, now it is time for peace and development," he said.
In Jammu and Kashmir, "we abrogated Article 370 and Article 35(A) to end insurgency once and for all, with many expressing apprehension that it will lead to more bloodshed. "Not a single bullet was fired during the recent panchayat elections," he said. Similarly, the recent violence-free BTC polls, with 80 per cent voter turnout, has proved that those who created division and sowed poison to create rift between the Bodos and the non-Bodos have no place in the state. "The presence of all communities in today's rally is a befitting reply to the ones who had indulged in violence and bloodshed in the Bodo areas as the people here have proved that they are all children of Mother India," Shah insisted. The BTR Accord, designed to usher in peace in the region, was signed on January 27 last year by the Centre, the Assam government, all four factions of the National Democratic Front of Boroland and the then Bodoland Territorial Council chief Hagrama Mohilary. Shah also said that a package of Rs 500 crore has been sanctioned for the development of road network in the BTR. "I had assured now BTC chief Promode Bodo that all promises made in the accord and also those made verbally will be kept, as the prime minister's dream of New India and 'atmanirbhar' (self-reliant) Bharat cannot be realised without a new and 'atmanirbhar' Bodoland, he said. He exuded confidence that the saffron party will comfortably win the assembly polls. "Now that the United Peoples' Party Liberal (UPPL) has become a part of NDA, we are sure that we will win the Assam assembly polls with a thumping majority. The BTC polls were a trailer ... I have come to appeal to you that just as we were made victorious during the semi-final, we must be triumphant in the final too," he said. Listing the steps taken so far in accordance with the Bodo accord clauses, the Union minister said a committee has been formed to survey tribal-dominated areas, and the number of seats in the Bodoland Territorial Council (BTC) has been increased to 60. A Bodo kachari welfare council has also been constituted for the benefit of people from the community who do not live anywhere near BTR, he said. Shah also recalled that shortly after the Bodo Accord was inked, another Bru-Reang Agreement was signed, with 700 people from eight militant outfits depositing their arms and ammunition, and stressed that "these are the initiatives that will take us forward on the path of development". He distributed rehabilitation packages among a section of surrendered militants during the day.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-390
24-01-2021||India||India administers one million Covid-19 vaccines in six days||The Union Health Ministry on Sunday claimed that India took just six days to administer one million Covid-19 vaccine doses as the number of beneficiaries who have received the anti-coronavirus shots inched close to 16 lakh. The count is higher than that of richer and more developed countries like the US and the UK. The UK took 18 days whereas the US took 10 days to reach the one million mark, the ministry said. “As on January 24, till 8 am, nearly 16 lakh (15,82,201) beneficiaries have received Covid-19 vaccination.In a span of 24 hours, close to 2 lakh (1,91,609) people were vaccinated across 3,512 sessions. A total of 27,920 sessions have been conducted so far,” it said. India took only six days to roll out one million vaccine doses. This count is higher than countries like the US and the UK. The UK took 18 days whereas the US took 10 days to reach the one million mark, the ministry highlighted. In a testament to the successful test-track-treat-technology strategy, India continues on its steady trajectory of reporting a sustained downfall in the daily new cases and consequential decline in the active cases, the ministry underlined. India’s active cases on Sunday stood at 1,84,408 which comprises 1.73 per cent of the total cases. With 15,948 recovered cases in a span of 24 hours, a net decline of 1,254 cases has been recorded in the total active caseload during the same period. Kerala, Maharashtra, Karnataka, Uttar Pradesh and Bengal account for 75 per cent of the total active cases in the country. The total recovered cases have surged to 10,316,786, the ministry said adding 84.30 per cent of the new recovered cases are observed to be concentrated in 10 states and UTs. Kerala has reported the maximum number of single day recoveries with 5,283 recoveries. Maharashtra follows with 3,694 new recoveries. The ministry said that 80.67 per cent of the 14,849 new Covid-19 cases recorded in a span of 24 hours are concentrated in six states and UTs. Kerala reported the maximum daily new cases numbering 6,960 in a day. Maharashtra has recorded 2,697 new cases while Karnataka registered 902 new cases yesterday. Seven states and UTs account for 79.35 per cent of the 155 case fatalities reported in a span of 24 hours. Maharashtra reported 56 deaths. Kerala and Delhi follow with 23 and 10 new deaths, respectively.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-391
24-01-2021||India||CBSE to restructure affiliation system||Officials of the CBSE said that the board is restructuring the affiliation system for schools and making the process completely digital and based on data analytics with least human intervention. The new system of the Central Board of Secondary Education will be introduced from March 1, as per various recommendations for systemic reforms laid down in the new National Education Policy (NEP). “The board is restructuring the affiliation system and process as per recommendations of education reforms in the NEP. Although the CBSE affiliation system has been online since 2006, the restructured system will be completely digital and based on data analytics with least human intervention,” CBSE secretary Anurag Tripathi said. “The restructuring will help in establishing ease of doing business in the CBSE affiliation system, attaining the goal of minimum government, maximum governance, automated and data driven decisions, achieve transparency, bring more accountability in the entire systemic processes and achieve quick and time-bound disposal of all applications,” he added. Tripathi said the board will soon come out with detailed guidelines on the restructured system. “A detailed document on the CBSE affiliation system containing the restructured online procedure for affiliation, documents required for affiliation application, modalities and standard operating procedures (SOPs) for inspection, guidelines for the inspection committee, videos for various processes, will be released soon,” he said. The board has also revised timelines for the application process as per the restructured system. As per the revised timeline, every year the application window for fresh affiliation and upgradation of affiliation will open three times -March 1 to 31, June 1 to 30 and September 1 to 30. “The application for extension of affiliation will be accepted from March 1 to May 31 every year. Other applications such as those for additional subjects, section increase, change of name of school, change of society or trust, will be accepted through the year,” Tripathi said. Procuring digital signatures of a school from authorised service provider or AADHAAR-based signatures; uploading mandatory documents such as no objection certificate, land certificate, safety certificate and certificate by district education officer, are among the prerequisites for application for affiliation. “After the online submission of application, details submitted by the school will be analysed in accordance with the CBSE by-laws and inspection committee will be constituted immediately for the purpose of inspection. Schools will be able to get inspection done on any of the dates mentioned in the letter,” he said. The CBSE had introduced a facility for virtual inspection of schools for upgradation of affiliation in August last year in view of the Covid-19 pandemic. The board is also in the process of setting up a facilitation centre to address queries, and problems of schools and inspection committees related to the virtual inspection. The board had revamped its norms in 2018 for granting affiliation to schools, leaving the onus of the infrastructural audit on states and limiting its own role to academic quality monitoring. The CBSE has 24,930 schools affiliated to it across the country and abroad, with over 2 crore students and more than 10 lakh teachers. The affiliation by-laws were formulated in the year 1998.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-391
24-01-2021||India||India, China hold ninth round of talks on border situation at eastern Ladakh||The Indian and Chinese Armies on Sunday held the ninth round of  Corps Commander-level talks, after a gap of nearly three months, sources said. The talks were aimed at moving forward on disengagement of troops from all friction points in eastern Ladakh. This round of military talks began at 10 am at Moldo border point on the Chinese side of the Line of Actual Control (LAC) in eastern Ladakh, the sources said. The eighth and last round of military talks had taken place on November 6, during which both sides broadly discussed disengagement of troops from specific friction points. The Indian delegation at talks is being led by Lt Gen PGK Menon, the Commander of the Leh-based 14 Corps. India has all along been maintaining that the onus is on China to carry forward the process of disengagement and de-escalation at the friction points in the mountainous region. The seventh round of Corps Commander-level talks had taken place on October 12 during which China was pressing for withdrawal of Indian troops from a number of strategic heights around the Southern bank of Pangong lake. However, India insisted that the disengagement process has to start simultaneously at all the friction points. Nearly 50,000 Indian Army troops are currently deployed in a high state of combat readiness in various mountainous locations in eastern Ladakh in sub-zero conditions as multiple rounds of talks between the two sides have not yielded concrete outcome to resolve the standoff. China has also deployed an equal number of troops, according to officials. Last month, India and China held another round of diplomatic talks under the framework of Working Mechanism for Consultation and Coordination (WMCC) on India-China border affairs. However, no concrete outcome emerged from the talks. Following the sixth round of military talks, the two sides had announced a slew of decisions including not to send more troops to the frontline, refrain from unilaterally changing the situation on the ground and avoid taking any actions that may further complicate matters. This round was held with a specific agenda of exploring ways to implement a five-point agreement reached between External Affairs Minister S Jaishankar and his Chinese counterpart Wang Yi at a meeting in Moscow on September 10 on the sidelines of a Shanghai Cooperation Organisation(SCO) conclave. The pact included measures like quick disengagement of troops, avoiding action that could escalate tensions, adherence to all agreements and protocols on border management and steps to restore peace along the LAC. In an interview to Times Now, Defence Minister Rajnath Singh had on Friday said India will not reduce the troops at the border unless China initiates the process. He said the country is developing its border infrastructure, some of which has been objected to by China, at a “very fast rate”. However, he expressed confidence that the situation can be brought under control through talks. When asked about the dialogue process to disengage troops, Singh had replied, “There is no deadline when it comes to matter like the ongoing standoff. You can't fix a date. Indian and Chinese troops have been locked in a face-off at multiple points — the Pangong Lake, Hot Springs and the Depsang Plains — since May last year.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-391
24-01-2021||India||Modi, Shah, ministers salute ‘Desh Ki Beti’ on National Girl Child Day||The central government has undertaken many initiatives that focus on empowering the girl child including access to education, better healthcare and improving gender sensitivity, Prime Minister Narendra Modi said on National Girl Child Day on Sunday. India celebrates the National Girl Child Day, an initiative of the ministry of women and child development, every year on January 24. “On National Girl Child Day, we salute our #DeshKiBeti and the accomplishments in various fields,” Modi said in a tweet. The central government has undertaken many initiatives that focus on empowering the girl child, including access to education, better healthcare and improving gender sensitivity, he said. “Today is also a day to specially appreciate all those working towards empowering the girl child and ensuring she leads a life of dignity and opportunity,” the prime minister said in another tweet. Home Minister Amit Shah praised Modi for campaigns like ‘Beti Bachao, Beti Padhao’, aimed to empower girls in the country. Taking to Twitter, he said, “On Prime Minister @narendramodi’s call, 'Beti Bachao, Beti Padhao' was made a public campaign by the country, which led to an increase in enrollment of girls in schools and unprecedented improvement in the sex ratio.” “On National Girl Child Day, we reiterate our commitment to make our #DeshKiBeti Aatmanirbhar,” he added. Women and Child Development Minister Smriti Irani also tweeted on the occasion. Posting a picture with her two daughters, she tweeted, “My daughters are my pride who have set out onto different frontiers with determination and confidence. Give a shoutout to a #DeshKiBeti and celebrate their achievements.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-391
24-01-2021||India||Nearly 15,000 Covid-19 cases, 152 deaths in India||India's Covid-19 caseload has gone up to 1,06,54,533 with 14,849 people testing positive for the coronavirus infection in a day, while the number of recoveries has surged to 1,03,16,786, according to the health ministry.

The death toll due to the viral disease has climbed to 1,53,339 with 155 more fatalities, the ministry's data updated at 8 am showed.

The number of people who have recuperated from the disease has surged to 1,03,16,786, pushing the national Covid-19 recovery rate to 96.83 per cent, while the case fatality rate stands at 1.44 per cent.

The active Covid-19 caseload of the country remained below two lakh for the fifth consecutive day.

There are 1,84,408 active cases of the coronavirus infection in the country currently, which account for 1.73 per cent of its total caseload, the data stated.

India's Covid-19 tally had crossed the 20-lakh mark on August 7 last year, the 30-lakh mark on August 23, the 40-lakh mark on September 5 and the 50-lakh mark on September 16.

It went past 60 lakh on September 28, 70 lakh on October 11, 80 lakh on October 29, 90 lakh on November 20 and the one-crore mark on December 19.

According to the Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR), a total of 19,17,66,871 samples have so far been tested in the country for the viral disease, including 7,81,752 on Saturday.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-391
24-01-2021||India||Delhi temperature rises as dense fog shrouds capital||A thick blanket of fog shrouded Delhi on Sunday, lowering visibility to 100 metres and affecting traffic movement, the India Meteorological Department (IMD) said.

Dense fog reduced visibility to 200 metres at Safdarjung and 100 metres at Palam.

According to the IMD, very dense fog is when visibility is between 0 and 50 metres. In case of dense fog, visibility is between 51 and 200 metres, moderate 201 and 500 metres, and shallow 501 and 1,000 metres.

Dense to moderate fog is predicted in Delhi for the next four days, the IMD said.

The city's minimum temperature, however, rose to 8.8 degrees Celsius, a notch above normal, due to easterly winds and a cloud cover over the city, an IMD official said.

Easterly winds are not as cold as northwesterly coming in from the snow-clad western Himalayas, while clouds trap some of the outgoing infrared radiation, increasing the minimum temperature.

The mercury is predicted to drop to four degrees Celsius by Tuesday as dry, icy winds have started blowing from the snow-clad western Himalayas towards the plains, the IMD official said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-391
24-01-2021||India||The business of speaking out when few others do||An industrialist has uttered in public what Arnab Goswami would hear out in private but did not dare declare from his TV pulpit. “Out of 7 crore entrepreneurs, MSMEs (micro small and medium enterprises), 30 per cent are almost dead. What is 30 per cent? 2.1 crore…. That 2.1 crore give jobs for almost 20 crore people. They are not bothered,” K.E. Raghunathan told Rahul Gandhi at an interaction in Coimbatore, Tamil Nadu, on Saturday. “We are seeing only the balance 60 per cent and saying ‘greenshoots’. I am seeing shooting myself as an entrepreneur. How are we progressing? What answer will I give to my children?” added Raghunathan. “You are the only voice for us. Don’t forget it,” he told Rahul. Raghunathan is the convener and spokesperson for the Consortium of Indian Associations that he said represents over 3.5 lakh industrial units. Since the lockdown was gradually eased, the Modi government has been claiming to have spied “greenshoots” of recovery on an otherwise bleak economic landscape. Few industrialists, barring Rahul Bajaj, have voiced so bluntly the concerns of industry although many businessmen and corporate chiefs are known to be candid, if not withering, in private and all praise for the government in public. The double standard was on display last week when purported WhatsApp chats between Republic TV managing director Goswami and the then BARC chief Partho Dasgupta became public. In one set of chats on the eve of the 2019 general election, a purported message from Dasgupta tells Goswami: “NM/AS should first rejig finance ministry in the second term — the economy is screwed — no matter what we tell outside.” Goswami, usually quick on the draw to duel on behalf of the Modi regime, did not only not challenge Dasgupa but agreed “totally” with the ratings boss that Arun Jaitley, the then finance minister, was “their biggest failure”. In Coimbatore on Saturday, Raghunathan, who came from Chennai for the programme, did not pull any punches when his turn to speak came. “What are we witnessing today in this country? We moved from Skill India to Digital India to Make in India to Atmanirbhar now. And finally ended where? Fund India. What is Fund India? FDI… asking others to give us money,” he said, drawing applause from the rest of the audience. As high as 98 per cent of these industries are micro units, which he defined as small businesses run by groups of self-employed people with an annual turnover of less than Rs 5 crore. But today, the dreams of the start-ups are “shattered”, he said, adding: “We are losing them.” Asserting that micro industries were not on an equal footing with small and medium industries, Raghunathan said a separate ministry for micro enterprises was a must. He put in a nutshell the key problems being faced by entrepreneurs: “3M” or lack of “money, manpower and material”. “Banks are chasing us, the NBFCs (non-banking finance companies) are chasing us,” said Raghunathan. The MSMEs were left high and dry after the economy was rocked by the Covid-19 pandemic as banks were reluctant to lend to borrowers whose fortunes had turned uncertain. The Centre announced a collateral-free loan scheme for MSMEs as part of the Atmanirbhar package  and the initial plan was to limit it to 45 lakh units. Raghunathan  is basically complaining that the MSME universe has more than 7 crore establishments and the provision of collateral-free credit to 45 lakh borrowers would only scratch the surface of the problem. The MSMEs provide large-scale employment in the country and their survival is crucial to tackling unemployment  — a problem that the Modi has failed to address in the six and a half years he has been at the helm of the Union government. Raghunathan later told The Telegraph over the phone that he had taken part in the interaction “to draw the attention of the government to these burning issues”. “Rahul Gandhi is a national leader who can understand the gravity of the situation,” he said. Raghunathan, former president of the All India Manufacturers Organisation, added: “Rahul gave me a patient hearing and, during lunch, told me that he was touched by my statement. Entrepreneurs cannot cry openly, for if they did, nobody will give business. But everybody is crying today.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-391
24-01-2021||India||India, China to hold military talks on Sunday||India and China will hold the ninth round of military talks on Sunday to defuse the border standoff in eastern Ladakh, sources in the defence ministry said. The corps commander-level talks will be held at Moldo on the Chinese side of the Line of Actual Control. Indian and Chinese troops have been locked in a face-off at multiple points — the Pangong Lake, Hot Springs and the Depsang Plains — since May last year. Eight rounds of military talks so far have failed to find a breakthrough.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-391
24-01-2021||India||Diversity tied to economy: Rahul Gandhi||Rahul Gandhi on Saturday criticised Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s poor understanding of the importance of diversity in India, arguing that economic growth was not possible without social harmony. In a conversation with representatives from the micro, small and medium enterprises (MSME) sector in Tamil Nadu’s Coimbatore, the Congress leader said the economic slide began much before the pandemic struck, citing as reasons the demonetisation and the faulty GST rollout apart from the atmosphere of social disharmony which is not conducive for business. “You cannot have disharmony and economic growth together,” he said. Responding to a question about the “role of diversity”, Rahul said: “What will happen if somebody says you can’t speak Tamil? What will happen if somebody goes to Manipur and says you cannot follow your customs? Economic activities will cease. The foundation of economic growth in India is diversity. Without diversity, you won’t have economy. You won’t have India either. India itself is an idea of diversity.” The Congress MP explained: “The notion that the Prime Minister has that he can reduce diversity and grow faster is ignorance. It is lack of understanding. Also, lack of respect. When I come to Tamil Nadu, I view your language, your culture, your tradition as an asset. The current dispensation views this as a liability. They believe power should be centralised, that one man and one organisation should control everything.” Insisting that social harmony is an imperative for business, Rahul said: “You can see the Prime Minister came with huge announcements. What happened? What has happened to the economy, what has happened to the level of violence in the society, what has happened to creation of jobs? Harmony is the central thing. The current government has created a huge amount of disharmony.” Rahul was asked about the frequent protests in the country. He replied: “Protests are happening because there is an attempt to impose one idea, one ideology, to force this country to do what it doesn’t want to do. There is an attempt to capture institutions… we are heading in a dictatorial direction. “Instead of conversations about how to solve problems, the government thinks it can impose its views. They will soon find out this is not possible. Farmers are not listening. Tamil Nadu has questions, the Northeast has questions…. It is about style of governance. You have to talk to people with respect, kindness, love and affection.” Claiming that the GST was not a case of faulty implementation alone as it was designed to harm small businesses, Rahul said: “The government’s entire focus is on the largest players while the need of the hour is to do hand-holding of MSMEs, which is the future. We can’t compete with China without empowering the MSMEs. You talk of ‘Make in India, five big industrialists are there. Talk of telecom, defence… and the same five fellows. Now agriculture, the same people. Banks are working for 10-15 big industrialists,” Rahul said. Participants bitterly complained about the GST and the economic slide, lamenting that over 30 per cent of micro industrial units had died during the lockdown, affecting over 20 crore people. Later in the evening, interacting with industrial workers in Tirupur, Rahul alleged that the demonetisation and the faulty GST rollout were not mistakes but done on purpose to break the backbone of India’s workers and small businesses. This was a systemic and organised assault on workers, Rahul said, adding that even the inadequate response to Covid-19 was on purpose and now farmers were facing a similar fate. “Modi is an arrogant person. He does not understand the power of poor people. Our job is to make him understand the power of the poor. I can sense you don’t believe the nonsense that the Prime Minister speaks,” Rahul said. On a question about joblessness, he said: “This is because the economy is stuck, like the traffic that doesn’t move in a jam. This has happened because Modi gave thousands of crores to 10-15 largest businessmen and waived those loans instead of taking the money back.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-391
24-01-2021||India||Breathless Lalu shifted to AIIMS  in Delhi||RJD chief Lalu Prasad was flown to AIIMS, New Delhi, in a chartered flight on Saturday evening after he complained of breathing discomfort caused by pneumonia. Lalu, the former Bihar chief minister who is serving a jail term in fodder scam cases, had been receiving treatment at the Rajendra Institute of Medical Science (RIMS) in Ranchi. After a medical team advised better care, the 72-year-old leader was flown to Delhi around 6pm, Jharkhand inspector-general of prisons Birendra Bhusan told The Telegraph. “It was on the recommendation of the eight-member medical team that we decided to shift him for better treatment to AIIMS, Delhi. He was flown to Delhi in a chartered plane, accompanied by a doctor from RIMS. Medical experts at Ranchi expect him to recover in a fortnight,” Bhusan said. Sources at RIMS, where Lalu had been undergoing treatment for more than a year, said the leader had been suffering from a kidney ailment and diabetes, and his health worsened on Friday when a bout of pneumonia caused breathing discomfort. “We constituted a medical team and decided to recommend that he be shifted to AIMS in Delhi for better treatment considering his comorbidities and age. We have sent a senior doctor from the medicine unit with him. He will accompany Lalu Prasad till his admission at AIIMS,” said RIMS director Dr Kameshwar Prasad. Lalu had been receiving treatment at Ranchi’s Birsa Munda central jail since December 2017 after his conviction in the multi-crore fodder scam. He had been shifted to RIMS in 2018. On Friday night, Lalu’s wife Rabri Devi, daughter Misa Bharti and younger son Tejashwi met him in Ranchi. Tejashwi, the leader of the Opposition in the Bihar Assembly, had on Friday told the media that his father’s condition was serious. He met Jharkhand chief minister Hemant Soren on Saturday with the request of facilitating better treatment in Delhi.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-391
24-01-2021||India||Father Stan Swamy pens letter on plight of other undertrials ||He is 83, ill, and has spent more than 15 weeks in jail. But Father Stan Swamy’s latest letter from Mumbai’s Taloja Central Jail speaks not of his sufferings but of the plight of other undertrials and how he has been deriving inspiration from their spirit of solidarity. “But we will still sing in chorus. A caged bird can still sing,” the Jesuit priest and tribal rights activist, who completed 100 days in custody on January 16, wrote. Father Stan, a Parkinsonism patient who cannot hold a glass of water steadily enough to drink from it, has taken the pains to write the letter in his own hand, the Bangalore-based Jesuit priest who has received it told The Telegraph. The priest, who wished to remain anonymous, said he had released the letter among fellow Jesuits, Father Stan’s supporters and the non-government National Confederation of Human Rights Organisations (NCHRO) on January 22. Father Stan had earlier too sent out two letters from jail but they had been dictated to a co-accused. These letters had revealed his travails but only to emphasise the help he was receiving from fellow prisoners. “Many of such poor undertrials don’t know what charges have been put on them, have not seen their chargesheet and just remain in prison for years without any legal or other assistance,” the letter says. “Overall, almost all undertrials are compelled to live to a bare minimum, whether rich or poor. This brings in a sense of brotherhood and communitarianism where reaching out to each other is possible even in this adversity.” Father Stan, arrested by the National Investigation Agency from his Ranchi home on October 8, stands accused with 15 other rights activists, lawyers and writers in the Bhima Koregaon case, which relates to caste violence and an alleged Maoist conspiracy. “The 16 co-accused have not been able to meet each other, as we are lodged in different jails or different ‘circles’ within the same jail,” his letter says, before adding 
the line about caged birds singing. The arrest memo issued by NIA inspector Ajay Kumar Kadam against Father Stan on October 8 mentions charges under Indian Penal Code sections 153A, 505(1)(B), 117, 120B, 121, 121A, 124A and 34 as well as several sections of the anti-terror Unlawful Activities (Prevention) Act. The IPC sections deal with offences ranging from sedition and waging war against the state to promoting enmity between groups, incitement and criminal conspiracy. The NIA chargesheet accuses Father Stan of being part of a plot by the banned CPI Maoist to take on the Narendra Modi government with the help of an armed militia of Dalits and Muslims. Father Stan’s supporters say he has been arrested and maligned because of his campaign for the implementation of laws Parliament has passed to safeguard tribal people’s rights. Prime Minister Narendra Modi had at a meeting with three cardinals in Delhi on January 19 refused to intervene with the NIA on behalf of the octogenarian priest. Award The NCHRO has selected Father Stan for an award conferred in honour of the late Mukundan C. Menon, journalist and founder of the human rights organisation People’s Union for Civil Liberties. The award ceremony will be held virtually on Sunday. Father Stan told the NCHRO in a letter on January 10 that the prize money of Rs 25,000 should be donated to a fund set up to meet the court expenses of all the 16 Bhima Koregaon accused.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-392
24-01-2021||India||Farmers' protest: Republic Day tractor parade plan inches forward ||The protesting farmers on Saturday claimed a breakthrough in talks with police over finalising routes for the kisan parade on Republic Day amid indications from Delhi cops that the tractor rally would be allowed to enter the national capital, but there was no official confirmation. The official announcement is expected to be made on Sunday once the final contours of the agreement are drawn up. Delhi police sources said the tractor rally would be permitted after the main Republic Day parade but not in New Delhi and central Delhi areas. The protesting farmers had always maintained that they only wanted to move along the Outer Ring Road, and not disrupt the main parade. From the day they announced their parade on January 2, the farmers have said that they would bring out their tractor rally only after the main parade is over. Also, the police said the farmers would have to give a written undertaking about their programme before permission is granted. Delhi police have also told farmers that medical services will be provided to them on the designated routes. Earlier, in a statement, the Samyukta Kisan Morcha — the banner under which the farmers’ protest against the new agriculture laws is being held — said: “In a breakthrough with police officials of Delhi, Haryana and Uttar Pradesh, SKM leaders were able to jointly finalise routes for the Kisan Republic Day Parade. Preparations are on in full swing for disciplined conduct of the same.” Some farmer union leaders said the parade would be allowed to enter Delhi from five borders and move along a route designated by Delhi police without going on to the Outer Ring Road. Essentially, the farmers and the police have met halfway with the SKM giving up the insistence on going along the Outer Ring Road if the farmers are allowed to enter Delhi on Republic Day. Yogendra Yadav of the Jai Kisan Andolan and Hannan Mollah of the All India Kisan Sabha — both constituents of the SKM — said there was broad agreement on the routes and they would be made public on Sunday. The police have said the barricades at the border points to Delhi will be removed, Mollah added. Since the Supreme Court earlier this week refused to step in to take a decision on the farmers’ proposed parade, Delhi police have been in regular contact with the SKM leadership. The police at first tried to persuade the farmers to give up their plan to enter Delhi, taking the plea that the security set-up will be as it is strained on January 26 owing to Republic Day events. Farmers, too, have been working overtime to not only make their parade a success but also ensure that it remains peaceful. The SKM has made it clear that only the national flag and flags of the various farmer unions can be placed on the tractors, strictly barring flags of political parties. Further, they are dissuading participants from trying out stunts during the parade. Going by videos flooding social media and intelligence reports received by the security agencies, the participation for the parade is likely to be even more than anticipated. The highways leading to Delhi from Punjab, Haryana and Uttar Pradesh are already witnessing a steady stream of bedecked tractors heading for Delhi.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-392
24-01-2021||India||Odisha remembers Netaji on his 125th birth anniversary||Odisha and in particular Cuttack remembered its greatest son Netaji Subhas Chandra Bose on his 125th birth anniversary on Saturday. Chief minister Naveen Patnaik, Union minister Dharmendra Pradhan and a number of dignitaries visited Netaji’s parental home Janakinath Bhawan at Odia Bazar in Cuttack, which has been converted into a museum, and paid their tributes to the son of the soil. Naveen also announced that a year-long celebration programme will be held to commemorate Netaji’s 125th birth anniversary. “Netaji is a son of Cuttack’s soil. He was born and brought up here. This sacred soil of Cuttack inculcated in him the mantra of service, struggle and sacrifice. Hence, the state government has decided to celebrate the 125th birth anniversary of Netaji,” the chief minister said. Later Naveen tweeted a number of pictures of Netaji on his Twitter account where the number of his followers have crossed 3 million. As a mark of respect to Netaji, Naveen on Saturday laid the foundation stone of a new bus terminal in Cuttack, which will be developed as a model bus stand of the country. The bus terminal, named after Netaji, will be developed over 12 acres at a cost of Rs 65 crore. The terminal will have all basic facilities and amenities like a food court, rooftop rainwater harvesting and an integrated information management system for the benefit of passengers. The terminal will display motifs and paintings from Netaji’s life and his sacrifice for the country. Besides Naveen, many other leaders, including minister Pradhan, visited Netaji’s parental home and offered floral tributes to one of the nation’s greatest martyrs. Several paintings depicting Netaji’s life and his role in the freedom struggle have been put on display at Janakinath Bhawan which has been converted into Netaji Birth Place Museum. The museum houses 13 galleries displaying rare photographs of Netaji’s early life, his time with Indian National Army (Azad Hind Fauj), provisional government of Azad Hind Fauj and Azad Hind Radio. It also has a collection of more than 500 books. Pradhan, who garlanded Netaji’s statue in the presence of other dignitaries, later tweeted: “Paid tribute to one of India’s greatest patriot Netaji Subhas Chandra Bose at Jankinath Bhawan, his birthplace in Cuttack. Celebrating this day as #ParakramDivas is a befitting tribute to Netaji and a just honour for his stellar contribution in the freedom struggle of our nation.” Sand artist Sudarshan Patnaik created a sand sculpture of Netaji at Puri beach on the occasion which drew a huge crowd. Odisha also celebrated the 213th birth anniversary of another legendary freedom fighter and martyr Veer Surendra Sai. Pradhan unveiled a life-size statue of Sai in front of the Veer Surendra Sai airport in Jharsuguda district of western Odisha. Union parliamentary affairs, coal and mines minister Pralhad Joshi attended the unveiling through the virtual mode.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-392
24-01-2021||India||Ghazipur’s protest encampment has doubled in a week||A balloon has gone up. It can be seen from kilometres to the east and the west. To the west is the Indian capital, Delhi. To the east is the state of Uttar Pradesh. At the point where the balloon is tethered, Ram Charan Tripathi, a farmer and farm worker (labourer), is sitting on a separator on the Expressway – South Asia’s widest – and he is telling The Telegraph Online on Saturday evening that he lost his son on November 2 (2020). Ram Charan Tripathi says he is 78 years old. Weatherbeaten face, red turban, a bristly grey moustache, a grey stubble on sunken cheeks. “I had three sons. Now I have two”, he says. “Sukesh died on November 2nd. I am here since November 28. I have an acre-and-a-half of land that was to be divided among them.” The conversation is disturbed by a tractor with blazing lights and a Punjabi rap blaring over loudspeakers. It is driving up the flyover from the UP side. “I cannot afford a tractor. So, the first time I walked here”, Ram Charan says. “I have been back home twice since I first came here. Kheti bhi toh karni hain.” (I also need to farm). The tractor with blazing lights and stereophonic music is not what he has. Ram Charan reaps a harvest, at most, of 20 quintals of wheat from his farm. Last year, the government-ordained minimum support price (MSP) for it was Rs 1,868 per quintal. He has to hire a tractor to churn the soil, hire a submersible pump to irrigate the land from a neighbor at a rate of Rs 150 per bigha. His land totals about 10 bighas. That makes it Rs 1500.  He has to do it at least four times in the Rabi season to sow. These last few weeks, the unseasonal winter-rain were a relief. It spared him a round. In addition, he has to pay for urea, the fertilizer, and for pesticides. The shrunken man on the UP –Delhi border tells me that in the Rabi season he has to spend about Rs 31,000 to reap 20 quintals of grain (wheat). But because the government has not granted the MSP of Rs 1,868 per quintal, and has reduced it by Rs 125, he will make only Rs 35,000. “In all my life, I have never been free from debt”, he says. Even Brahmins feel pangs of hunger. Ram Charan Tripathi is clearly a Brahmin, the elite in the hierarchy of the Hindu caste hierarchy. His village Shailendranagar in Gosai block of Amroha district is a mix of prosperous Jat and poor farmers. To make up for the rest of the year, he also works in the lands of the prosperous farmers – the ones who are here with stereophonic tractors – at the rate of Rs 300 per day – the mandated daily wage. “Why do you think the people of Eastern UP and Bihar are not able to come here? It is not only because the trains are not running as they should. It is because the labour is rarely getting Rs 100 per day,” Ram Charan explains. He is sitting on a separator on the Delhi-Meerut Expressway. “Wahan jaiye”, he waves to his right. “Dekhiye Dilli sarkar kya kar rahin hain. (Go see what the government in Delhi is doing).” This is what the Government of India seated in New Delhi is doing: On the flyover that connects UP with the national capital this evening, January the 23rd, a remarkable date because it is the 125th anniversary of Subhas Chandra Bose that the farmers here are observing, there are barricades being put in place by the Delhi Police. The Delhi Police is doing it on orders from the Union home ministry, not the government of Arvind Kejriwal who is the supposed chief minister of Delhi. The barricade here, as we walk to the top of the flyover, is 1,400 paces in width. It is layered from east to west with concrete blocks that the Delhi Police sub-inspector who stopped me from taking pictures described as “stone pillars”. They are actually concrete blocks. Their purpose is to separate the Expressway lanes from the service lanes. Each concrete block is four feet in height and five feet in length. I measured them. They are being put in place horizontally across the road. They were meant to be put horizontally in a longitudinal manner. Two cranes lift each block and place them at the point the Delhi Police marks with limestone chalk. India’s capital is safeguarding itself from the country it headquarters. Under the flyover is the camp of the Bharatiya Kisan Union (BKU) leader Rakesh Tikait, a son of Mahendra Singh Tikait (who led a farmers’ movement to New Delhi in 1988). The BKU has many factions. There is a buzz that the Centre may permit the Kisan Tractor Rally on January 26, India’s Republic Day (the day in 1950 when its Constitution was adopted). As it turns out later in the evening, the farmers’ front has put out a press release that tractor rally scheduled for the 26th has been given conditional permission by the Delhi Police. On the flyover, Bhanu Pratap Singh, a lawyer who leads separate faction of the BKU, says diesel prices are soaring. He is suited, booted and wears a tie. He is usually primed to address a dress circle of cameras and microphones. Under the flyover, in a service lane, pakodas (fritters) are being fried – one Sardar from Pilibhit (Maneka and Varun Gandhi’s constituency) on the Uttar Pradesh-Uttarakhand border – says “Modiji, isi ko GDP growth maante hain (Modi thinks this is economic growth)” – a reference to when the Prime Minister said in 2017 that streetside hawkers are also engines of economic growth. In the time between last week and now, the length of the protest encampment in Ghazipur on the UP-Delhi border has more than doubled. In the women’s quarters marked with yellow tarpaulins and a poster, Harinder Singh says she has no issues coming on camera after the regulation evening check. “We have laid out mattresses for 250 women. Because it is cold, we thought people will keep warm despite Corona (the virus). But it looks like we should have thought for 500”. Women are queuing up in the storefront cut into an edge of a yellow tent where everything is being sold of a Rs 2 donation. Those who cannot afford to donate are told they can take what they want, free of cost.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-392
24-01-2021||India||POWERPLAY INC.||Should the goods and services tax be done away with? Should soldiers be allowed to express dissent publicly? Should gau-raksha diwas or cow protection day be a national holiday? Those are questions from Shasn, a multi-player political board game. The responses to these questions determine the political ideology that players adopt — idealist or showstopper, supremo or capitalist. Zain Memon, the creator of Shasn, explains, “It provides an immersive role-playing experience wherein every player takes on the mantle of a politician in the midst of a high-stakes election.” At the end of it, the winner takes all, but it is about who wins and how. Zain adds, “One is no longer sitting on the sidelines wondering why politicians make the decisions they do.” Well-crafted and engaging, many of these political board games seem to have their way of starting a conversation about policy, politics and politicians. “The conversation of politics has seeped into our lives so much that they had to seep into games at some time,” remarks Anuja Pitre, who is the co-founder of Mantri Cards. Not all of it is limited to India. The Shasn set, for instance, allows one to play five different political scenarios: Indian, American, Brexit, the Roman Empire and Politics of the Future. The game Manifesto can be played by two to six people. “We thought of creating a game that would be the Monopoly of politics... A game that would make policy and governance a feature of daily household conversations,” says Manifesto co-creator Soumya Aggarwal. In this game, individual players assume the role of political parties. At the start of the game, each party has to build a manifesto by drawing policy cards from a stack with the objective of winning constituencies with a combination of action and vote cards. Demography, ideology, caste and religion, law and order, and infrastructure cards affect voters’ decisions. The game also has scam and model code of conduct cards, which can bring about dramatic twists and turns as the game gets along. Then there is The Poll: The Great Indian Election Game. It mimics the Indian electoral process. Players get campaign cards, cadres and money and then have to get about convincing other players that their policy and their manifesto is what they need. “You can campaign and convince people, cut each other’s votes or field a star campaigner using a caste-class combination. Or you could even spread fake news,” says Abeer Kapoor who came up with this game. Girish Krishnan, who is an alumni of the National Institute of Design’s Toy and Game Design programme and founder of the board game company Magic Circle, explains the popularity of board games thus: “A mounting thirst for screen-less fun activity post pandemic.” He adds, “There is one set that is aware of modern European and American games, play them and will pay for a well-designed game. Another set prefers paying for games with a development or educational spin. Both are causing an increase in demand for board games.” There is a thrill when you play these games that I can’t explain,” says Mumbai-based Lakshya Joshi. For him, it all started when he and his wife attended the first edition of Meeplecon — India’s first and only event dedicated to board games — in 2017. For Rahul Vaidya, board games were his way of making friends in a strange city when he moved from Jaipur to Bangalore with a job. He says, “I have always been interested in board games and when there was an intimation of a board gaming workshop, I went ahead and attended it.” Eventually, he joined a board-gaming meet-up, where, pre-coronavirus outbreak, people 20 years and upwards met once a week to play newly-launched board games and even have friendly contests. A lot of cafes in Bangalore also started to host board game meets. Says Rahul, “Most of us in the meet-up were working professionals, coming from different streams. For the first time, through these games we were learning more about how politics works.” One advantage of the game meets is that one can sample games one can never afford to buy. Lakshya and his wife save a part of their salary only to buy board games. Says Lakshya, “We have around 38 board games, right from Risk (a strategy game) to Secret Hitler (a social deduction game set in the 1930s Germany). And in the last few years, these new political games coming from India have put us on the world board game map, which was much needed.” Last Diwali, the Joshis gifted Mantri Cards to a few friends. Mantri Cards are a lot like the olden trump cards. Each card contains real and verifiable data submitted by MPs of the current Lok Sabha — age, education, criminal cases, assets declared, number of terms, and vote share. There are 108 cards in the deck — 100 MP cards and 8 power cards — and the rules are simple. Shuffle and deal; the player who has the Narendra Modi card starts the game. The objective is to amass the maximum number of cards. There are challenges aplenty, though. For instance, if you have the power card called Indira Gandhi, you can jail one player for two rounds. Then there is an Atal Bihari Vajpayee card that gives the player power to start three consecutive rounds. The Judiciary card gives a player power to change the rules of the game entirely. Anuja of Mantri Cards tells The Telegraph, “It doesn’t matter who you support, you should know who is what.” Once again, pre-Covid, Shasn Cups were hosted in India and the US. Abeer did playtests — basically trial runs of games — of The Poll at Lucknow University, in Nasik and in Trichi. Moiz Bookwala, who is the co-founder of Bored Game Company, an online marketplace for board games, says he has seen his online sales soar post the Covid outbreak. His retail outlet in Pune is also doing brisk business. Says Girish, “Board game designers come from the arts, design, marketing, advertising...” The varied sensibilities and sensitivities of the makers imbue the games. Abeer, who has been a journalist and covered elections, says, “Earlier, there was a certain articulation of India where you had the adda, old and young talking about issues and politics, and you had differences but you weren’t pointing knives at each other’s throats. That is what we wanted to bring back.” These games have not been randomly thrown together. The makers of the Mantri Cards were supported by the Association for Democratic Reforms for data appearing on submitted affidavits of candidates, and PRS Legislative Research for data on Lok Sabha/ MP performance. Abeer says he sourced information for the policy cards of The Poll by combing through manifestoes of actual political parties. The Friedrich Naumann Stiftung Foundation for Freedom supported the production of The Poll. For Shasn, Zain says he roped in futurists and historians to design a competitive strategy gameplay at the intersection of political thinking, systems theory, and narrative storytelling. There is also a subtle critique woven through these games, should you care to look for it. In The Poll, there are cards called hate speech, black money and fake news. Usage of such cards invites penalty. There are also risk cards that can change a situation. For instance, if someone pulls out a riot card, then everyone must play with caste cards only. “The dream and aim of this pursuit was to engage youngsters, who somehow choose to remain oblivious to political goings on, and get them interested in present day politics,” Abeer points out. That said, a lot of the games are designed such that anyone from eight years and upwards can play them. The games don’t require you to have prior knowledge of politics and political systems. And there are adult-only games too. The descriptor for Cards vs Sanskaar runs thus — “A party game the nation wants to play”. The goal of the game is not to eliminate players or accumulate high scores, but to rake in laughs. For instance, the black cards are really questions or prompts. Sample 1. Rahul Gandhi: Politics is in BLANK. Sample 2. In some parts of UP, BLANK is considered a status symbol. Orange cards are punchline baiters. Sample 1. Denying minorities their rights. Sample 2. Electing a dictator. Sample 3. Hindi Imperialism. Karan Dilip Worah and Adrita Das, the makers of Cards vs Sanskaar, say, “We took a step back and decided to make a laidback game with a satirical point of view.” Abeer talks about how there are a dozen ways in which one can be part of the political discourse without fighting an election. “For me, getting people to be more interactive by role-playing in a board game is that meaningful way,” he says. Anuja says she knows of NGOs who bought her game for school students. “These kids spun the game around. They play weekly games to decide who will be the class MP or class monitor.” Abeer recalls one time when he introduced the students of Growell School in Baghpat, Uttar Pradesh, to The Poll. He says, “One girl came to me and said, ‘Can I become a politician? I played your game and I think I know now how to be one’.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-392
