25-01-2021||India||Expansionist move on border foiled by Indian army: Kovind||President Ram Nath Kovind, on the eve of India’s 72nd Republic Day, began his address by greeting the nation and acknowledging the efforts of the farmers and the army, who relentlessly work to feed and protect the nation. “Every Indian salutes our farmers, who have made our vast and populous country self-reliant in food-grains and dairy products. Despite adversities of nature, numerous other challenges and the Covid-19 pandemic, our farmers sustained agricultural production,” he said. The President also spoke about the three farm laws passed by the BJP-led government in September 2020. He said, “Economic reforms continue apace and supplemented by long-pending reforms in areas of labour and agriculture through legislation. Path to reform at initial stages may cause misapprehensions. However, it’s beyond doubt that the government remains singularly devoted to farmers’ welfare.” Kovind also spoke at length about the economic reforms by the central government in view of the pandemic. He maintained that the economic slowdown during the pandemic had actually transformed into a transitory period for the nation to turn it into an opportunity. He also mentioned in his speech that the phase-wise unlocking process post lockdown had turned out to be beneficial for India’s economic recovery. He said, “In order to open up the economy without risking the lives of the people, the process of unlocking was carefully calibrated. This has proved effective and the economy has started showing indications of recovery faster than anticipated. The latest unprecedented collection of GST and India’s emergence as a most favoured destination for the foreign investment are indicative of our faster economic recovery.” The President also spoke about how the central government’s self-reliant schemes like Atma-Nirbhar Bharat, managed to generate employment. He pointed out about how a self-reliant India succeeded to manufacture its “own vaccine for Covid-19”. He said, “Our scientists have been working day and night for decoding the Coronavirus and they have succeeded in developing the vaccine in record time. With this accomplishment, our scientists have added a glorious chapter of contribution to the well-being of humanity.” During his speech he even took a veiled dig at China for the Indo-China border standoff in Ladakh. “The past year was a time of adversity, and it came from many fronts. We faced an expansionist move on our borders, but our valiant soldiers foiled it. To achieve this objective, 20 of them had to lay down their lives,” Kovind said. The President added, “The nation shall remain grateful to those brave soldiers. Though we reiterate our commitment to peace, our defence forces - Army, Air Force and Navy - are adequately mobilised in a well-coordinated move to thwart any attempt to undermine our security. Our national interest will be protected at all costs. We have also ensured a widespread understanding in the international community of India's firm and principled stand.” However, with Covid-19 protocols in place and the proposed farmers’ tractor rally at New Delhi, this year’s Republic Day celebrations in New Delhi will look different.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-389
25-01-2021||India||Farmer unions plan to march to Parliament on Budget day||Ahead of their proposed tractor parade on Republic Day, protesting farmer unions announced on Monday that they would march towards Parliament from different locations on February 1 when the annual Union Budget is scheduled to be presented. Darshan Pal of the Krantikari Kisan Union said the protesting farmers remain firm in their stand of repealing the three new farm laws and their agitation will continue till their demands are met. "We will march towards Parliament on foot from different locations on the budget day on February 1. As far as tomorrow's tractor rally is concerned, it will give the government an idea of our strength and they will know the agitation is not just limited to Haryana or Punjab but it is an agitation of the whole of the country," he said. Every march or protest will be peaceful as the movement has been so far, he said. "The farmers who have come for the tractor parade will not go back now and will join the protest. The agitation will continue till our demands are met. Our stand remains the same," Pal told a press conference, sharing the farmers' plans to intensify the protest. Thousands of armed personnel have been deployed at the Rajpath and several border points of the national capital which has been brought under a multi-layered security cover in view of Republic Day celebrations as well as the proposed tractor parade by farmers on Tuesday. Protesting farmer unions opposing the three contentious farm laws said their parade will not enter central Delhi and it will start only after the official Republic Day parade concludes. The unions claimed that around two lakh tractors are expected to participate in their parade which will move into the city from three border points --- Singhu, Tikri and Ghazipur (UP Gate). Hundreds of women to drive tractors In a show of strength, hundreds of women are expected to drive tractors at 'Kisan Gantantra Parade' on Republic Day. Social activist Zeba Khan said women will be participating in the tractor rally shoulder to shoulder with their fellow male farmers. Khan, who is among the women participating in the rally, claimed that at least 500 women will be in attendance on Tuesday. "Women's contribution was invaluable during India's freedom struggle. On Tuesday also, we will be there to make our contribution to this movement," she said. The activist, who hails from a family of farmers in Jharkhand, added that the rally was a crucial moment in their agitation which was "no less than a freedom struggle". "The three farm laws are similar to the pre-Independence shackles of slavery. Through this agitation, we are making our presence noticed, and exercising our right to enter Delhi," she said. 2 lakh tractors will join rally The unions have claimed that around two lakh tractors will be there in the parade which will move into the city from three border points --- Singhu, Tikri and Ghazipur (UP Gate). Several rural women in Haryana's Jind district have reportedly been receiving training for the past one month to drive tractors to be able to participate in the tractor rally. Thousands of farmers from different states have been protesting against the farm laws at various Delhi borders for nearly two months now. A spokesperson of Jai Kisan Andolan (Swaraj Abhiyaan) said the farmers tractor rally is expected to start at around 11:30 am on Tuesday and set to continue for 10-12 hours. "Fifty per cent women in Punjab and Haryana know how to drive tractors. Our wives, mothers and sisters are like 'Jhansi ki Rani'," Ram Singh Rangreta, state secretary of Sangharsh Morcha, Ambedkar, said. Gurmeet Singh, a protesting farmer from Patiala, said women's participation was key to the success of the agitation.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-389
25-01-2021||India||Farmers will not keep quiet until they destroy the laws: Sharad Pawar||The Centre may pass any law undermining the Constitution and on the back of its majority, but once the common man and farmers rise, they will not keep quiet until the new farm acts and the ruling party are destroyed, NCP chief Sharad Pawar said on Monday. Addressing a rally organised here to express solidarity with the farmers agitating near Delhi, Pawar also hit out at Maharashtra Governor Bhagat Singh Koshyari for heading to Goa at a time when peasants from the state were to submit a memorandum to the latter against the new farm laws. He alleged Koshyari, who is also the Goa governor, had time to meet Bollywood actress Kangana Ranaut after the BMC last year demolished parts of her office here, but has no time for farmers. The former Union agriculture minister accused Prime Minister Narendra Modi of not enquiring about the condition of farmers agitating near Delhi borders against the farm laws for two months now in cold weather. Maharashtra Revenue Minister and state Congress chief Balasaheb Thorat, All India Kisan Sabha general secretary Hannan Mollah and others also addressed the rally held at the Azad Maidan in south Mumbai. “You may pass any law undermining the Constitution, not keeping in with the reputation of Parliament and destroying the Parliamentary system on the back of your majority. But remember one thing, once the common man and farmers of the country rise, whether you withdraw the laws or not, they will not keep quiet until they destroy you and the law,” Pawar said during the rally. Pawar alleged that the farm laws were passed without detailed discussion in Parliament despite the opposition parties demanding deliberations on the bills concerned. The bills could have been discussed by a select committee, but it did not happen, he said. ...people (leaders from opposition) opposed it. But the laws were declared passed without discussion. This is the insult of the Constitution, he alleged. He said the farmers' fight is not easy as those who are in power are not affectionate towards the protesters. Pawar hailed the farmers from Punjab for their contribution in the country's freedom struggle and protecting it during the wars against China and Pakistan post-independence. "It has been 60 days since the farmers from Punjab, Haryana, Western Uttar Pradesh, Rajasthan are protesting near Delhi. "Did the country's PM enquire about (the farmers)? It was mentioned that the farmers are from Punjab. Does Punjab mean Pakistan?" Pawar asked. The NCP president said the leaders of the farmers who attended the rally in Mumbai were to submit a memorandum to Koshyari. We have not seen such a Governor in the history of Maharashtra. Lakhs of people have come here (at Azad Maidan). They were to submit a memorandum to the Governor. "But the Governor has gone to Goa. He has time to meet Kangana, but not my farmer, Pawar alleged. The NCP chief said it was the moral responsibility of the Governor to meet the farmers, but the latter did not fulfil his duty. But he does not have that courtesy. He should have at least sat in the Raj Bhavan, Pawar charged on Twitter later. However, the Raj Bhavan later clarified that the representatives of the Samyukta Shetkari Morcha, which organised the rally, were informed in advance that the Governor would not be able to meet the delegation on Monday as he would be in Goa to address its Goa. It was already cleared (to Morcha representatives) that Governor Bhagat Singh Koshyari has additional charge of Goa Governors post and he would address the session of the Goa Assembly on January 25 and hence, will not be able to meet the farmers' delegation, the Raj Bhavan said in a statement. Speaking at the rally, Thorat termed the farmers stir near Delhi as unprecedented. The farm laws are for capitalists, hoarders and profiteers. the laws were passed without discussion, the Maharashtra minister alleged. Thorat claimed there will be no MSP and market committees (APMCs) once the farm laws are implemented. The Congress leader said the Maharashtra government wants to pass laws which will be in the interest of farmers. No Shiv Sena leader or minister was seen at the rally, but the farmers' bodies claimed the ruling party had extended its support to the agitation. The Shiv Sena heads the MVA government in which the Congress and the NCP are partners. The new agri laws seek to encourage private trade, contract farming and remove stock limit on foodgrains. The protesting farmers have expressed apprehension that the new laws would pave the way for eliminating the safety cushion of Minimum Support Price and do away with the mandis, leaving them at the mercy of big corporates.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-389
25-01-2021||India||'Minor face-off' between Indian and Chinese troops in Sikkim||Indian and Chinese troops were engaged in a "minor face-off" at Naku La area in North Sikkim on January 20 and it was resolved by local commanders as per established protocols, the Indian Army said on Monday. The incident in Sikkim came amid the prolonged military standoff between the two sides in eastern Ladakh that erupted on May 5. "It is clarified that there was a minor face-off at Naku La area of North Sikkim on January 20 and the same was resolved by local commanders as per established protocols. Media is requested to refrain from overplaying or exaggerating reports which are factually incorrect," the Army said in a brief statement. People familiar with the developments along the Line of Actual Control(LAC) in North Sikkim said the Chinese troops attempted to transgress into the Indian side of the frontier but were stopped by the Indian military personnel. They also said a brawl had broken out between the troops of the two armies. Naku La was the same site where the Indian and Chinese troops had engaged in a fierce clash on May 9 last year following a violent face-off between the two sides in Pangong lake area that triggered the military standoff in eastern Ladakh. The Indian and Chinese armies on Sunday held another round of Corps Commander-level talks with an aim to move forward on disengagement of troops from all the friction points in eastern Ladakh. Following the Ladakh standoff, the Indian Army has significantly bolstered its strength at all its bases along the nearly 3,500 KM-long LAC, the de-facto border between the two nuclear-powered Asian giants. India has all along been maintaining that the onus is on China to carry forward the process of disengagement and de-escalation at the friction points in the icy heights of eastern Ladakh. Close to 100,000 Indian and Chinese troops are deployed in eastern Ladakh as both sides have been holding on to their ground and showing readiness for a long-haul, amid continuing diplomatic and military talks to find an amicable solution. Reflecting India's firm approach in handling the situation, Army chief Gen MM Naravane had said nearly two weeks ago that Indian troops will hold their ground as long as it takes to achieve the "national goals and objectives" even as he hoped for an amicable resolution of the border standoff through talks.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-389
25-01-2021||India||Balakot airstrike info leaked to Arnab by Modi, alleges Rahul||Congress leader Rahul Gandhi on Monday accused Prime Minister Narendra Modi is the "person through which" prior information on India's airstrikes in Balakot in Pakistan in 2019 was made available to Republic TV editor-in-chief Arnab Goswami. The Congress MP, however, did not provide evidence to back up his claim. The Prime Minister's Office (PMO) also did not immediately respond to the unfounded claim. Addressing a roadshow here during his final day of election campaign in poll-bound Tamil Nadu, he said only five people including the PM and the Defence Minister would have prior information of the planned strikes. "Some days back it came out that a journalist knew about the air strikes in Balakot. Three days before the (Indian) air force bombed Pakistan, an Indian journalist was told it was going to happen," he said. This meant the lives of our IAF pilots were put at 'risk,' he said. "Now, five people in this world knew about Balakot (air strikes). Prime Minister of India, the Defence minister of India, the National Security Adviser and the Chief of the Air Force and the Home minister." "Nobody else in the world knew about Balakot before it happened. Now I want to understand why an enquiry has not started on who told this journalist about Balakot before it happened. The reason is that one of these five people told this man. One of these five people betrayed our Air Force," he charged. He alleged that "one of these people put the lives of our pilots in danger." "If the Prime Minister did not do it then why is he not ordering an enquiry. Think about it. The only reason that the Prime Minister has not ordered an enquiry is because he is the person through which that message has gone to this journalist," Gandhi claimed. Else, the PM should investigate and tell which one of these five people did it, Gandhi demanded. Purported chats between Goswami and former Broadcast Audience Research Council (BARC) head Partho Dasgupta, which mentioned that the former was privy to the 2019 air strike, by the IAF on the biggest JeM training camp in Balakot had surfaced recently. The IAF had carried out the strike deep inside Pakistan on February 26, 2019 in the wake of killing of 40 CRPF personnel in Kashmir's Pulwama district then by Pakistan- based Jaish-e-Mohammed. Gandhi also hit out at Modi once again over the Sino-India face-off, saying "today the Chinese army is sitting inside Indian territory." "The Prime Minister has said he has a 56 inch chest, big chest. Today the Chinese army is sitting inside Indian territory. Thousand km of Indian land has been taken by the Chinese," he said. He alleged that Modi cannot say the word China as he "does not have the courage to say" so. "You look at his speeches for the last 3-4 months, he does not say the word China. When the Chinese entered our territory he lied that nobody has come. After some days the Army and Defence minister said the Chinese army had come into Indian territory," Gandhi added. "And the only reason the Chinese have the guts and the courage to come into this country is because Narendra Modi has destroyed the economy and weakened (the country) by dividing it," he charged.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-389
25-01-2021||India||Centre questions Whatsapp's step-motherly treatment||The Centre on Monday told the Delhi High Court that WhatsApp was treating Indian users differently from its European ones with regard to opting out of its new privacy policy, and this was a matter of concern for the government which is looking into it. The central government told the high court that it was also a matter of concern that Indian users were being "unilaterally" subjected to the change in the privacy policy by social networking platform WhatsApp. The submissions were made before Justice Sanjeev Sachdeva by Additional Solicitor General Chetan Sharma during the hearing of a petition by a lawyer against the new privacy policy of the social networking platform owned by Facebook. During the hearing, Sharma told the court that by not giving Indian users the option to opt-out of sharing their data with other companies of Facebook, WhatsApp prima facie appears to be treating users with an "all or nothing approach". "This leverages the social significance of WhatsApp to force users into a bargain which may infringe on their interests in information privacy and information security," he told the court. Sharma said the government was already looking into the issue and has sent a communication to WhatsApp seeking certain information. Senior advocate Kapil Sibal, appearing for WhatsApp, told the court that the communication has been received and will be responded to. The court, thereafter, listed the matter for hearing on March 1.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-389
25-01-2021||India||India logs lowest number of fresh Covid cases in over eight months||India recorded the lowest number of coronavirus fatalities in over eight months with 131 more deaths being recorded, the Health Ministry said on Monday. The COVID-19 caseload rose to 1,06,67,736 with 13,203 more infections. There are 1,84,182 active cases, which is 1.73 per cent of the caseload and it remained below 2 lakh for the sixth consecutive day, according to the ministry data. As many as 1,03,30,084 people have recuperated, taking the recovery rate to 96.83 per cent. The fatality rate rose to 1.4 per cent and 131 more deaths include 45 from Maharashtra, 20 from Kerala, nine from Delhi and eight each from Chhattisgarh, West Bengal and Uttar Pradesh. A total of 1,53,470 deaths have been reported so far in the country, including 50,785 from Maharashtra, followed by 12,316 in Tamil Nadu, 12,197 in Karnataka, 10,808 in Delhi, 10,115 in West Bengal, 8,617 in Uttar Pradesh and 7,147 in Andhra Pradesh. According to the ICMR, 19.23 crore tests have been conducted so far with 5,70,246 samples being tested on Sunday. The ministry stressed that more than 70 per cent of the deaths occurred due to comorbidities. "Our figures are being reconciled with the Indian Council of Medical Research," the ministry said on its website, adding that statewide distribution of figures was subject to further verification and reconciliation.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-390
25-01-2021||India||Cold wave on the cards for Delhi||Cold wave is set to make a comeback in Delhi as the minimum temperature is likely to drop by four degrees Celsius over the next two-three days, the India Meteorological Department said on Monday. The maximum is likely to settle around 16 degrees Celsius. Dense-to-very-dense fog is also predicted during the period, said Kuldeep Srivastava, the head of the IMD's regional forecasting centre. "A cold wave is likely to grip the city over the next two to three days as icy winds from the snow-laden western Himalayas bring the mercury down to 4 degrees Celsius," he said. In the plains, the IMD declares a cold wave if the minimum temperature dips to 4 degrees Celsius. A severe cold wave is when the minimum is 2 degrees Celsius or less. On Monday, the minimum temperature stood at 7.4 degrees Celsius. Delhi had recorded a cold day on Sunday with the maximum temperature dropping to 15 degrees Celsius, six notches below normal and the lowest this month. A cold day is when the minimum temperature is less than 10 degrees Celsius and the maximum is at least 4.5 degrees Celsius below normal. Cold-wave conditions intensified in Kashmir on Monday as the minimum temperature dipped at most places following snowfall over the weekend, officials said. Srinagar recorded a low of minus 5.2 degrees Celsius, down from minus 1.9 degrees Celsius the previous night. Qazigund, the gateway town to the Valley, recorded a minimum of minus 5.5 degrees Celsius, down from minus 3.0 degrees the previous night, the officials said. The minimum temperature at the Gulmarg in north Kashmir's Baramulla district settled at minus 11.5 degrees Celsius, down from minus 11.0 degrees Celsius. Pahalgam recorded a low of minus 11.9 degrees Celsius, slightly up from the previous night's minus 12.0 degrees Celsius. Kupwara recorded a low of minus 3.1 degrees Celsius, while it was minus 8.4 degrees Celsius in Kokernag.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-390
25-01-2021||India||Farmers protest: R-Day tractor rally prep in full swing post Delhi police nod||The protesting farmers on Sunday night got down to the task of winning “not Delhi but the hearts of the people of the country” with a Republic Day tractor rally that seeks to nail every lie propagated against them by the ruling ecosystem. The preparations gathered steam after Delhi police on Sunday formally gave the protesting farmers permission to hold a tractor rally inside Delhi on Republic Day but said the event must be held within “a few kilometres” of the capital’s borders, keeping it close to the city’s periphery. The number of tractors that can participate is yet to be decided. A police source said: “The farmers can enter Delhi for a few kilometres (from each of the three protest points on the capital’s borders) but cannot disturb the Republic Day parade. The tractor rally will begin only after the big parade on Rajpath ends.” The police have chalked out three routes for three tractor rallies — one each from the Tikri, Singhu and Ghazipur border points — all of them within 3-4km of the border. The Samyukta Kisan Morcha (SKM), an umbrella body of farm unions leading the protests at Delhi border points, on Sunday night issued instructions for the tractor rally on Republic Day. “Friends, we are going to create history. Through this parade, we have to show our pain and miseries to the country and world, tell the truth about these three anti-farm laws.... Do remember, we are not going to win Delhi but to win the hearts of the people of this country,” the SKM said in a statement. The following are the guidelines issued by the SKM: ⚫ Take ration/food along for 24 hours and make enough arrangements to protect yourself from the cold. ⚫ We appeal that every tractor/vehicle should have a flag of the farmers’ union as well as the Indian national flag. Do not put flag/symbol of any political party. ⚫ Don’t carry any kind of weapons, not even a lathi. Do not put any provocative banner on the vehicle. ⚫The tractor rally will start first with the vehicle of farmer leaders and will be followed by the rest. Adhere to the instructions of our traffic volunteers clad in green jackets. ⚫ The route of the parade has been decided and the police and the traffic volunteers will guide you. Action will be taken against vehicles caught violating the route. ⚫ All vehicles will return to the place of its origin after the parade. ⚫ Not more than five persons, including the driver, will be allowed in one tractor. ⚫ Inform the traffic volunteers if you find anyone driving under the influence of alcohol. ⚫ Don’t quarrel with the police as they are also farmers in uniform, and treat women with respect. Don’t misbehave with mediapersons, irrespective of the TV channels they belong to. ⚫ Don’t pay attention to any rumour. If you want to check any facts, visit the Morcha’s Facebook page. ⚫ Ambulances will be there during the rally. In case of any emergency, call on the helpline number (7428384230) or inform the volunteers. ⚫ Call the Morcha’s helpline in case you want to ask/inform anything and it will remain open for 24 hours for this rally. You can alert the police control room in case of any incident. The guidelines guard against familiar attempts to malign the farmers and provoke them. Together the three rallies, expected to begin in the early afternoon, will cover about 100km before winding up by 6pm. The rallies will be escorted by the police. “We have finally agreed that we will also have a tractor rally on that day (Republic Day) maintaining the sanctity and security arrangements of the Republic Day celebrations,” said Dependra Pathak, Delhi police special commissioner. “The tractor rallies will enter Delhi from the Tikri, Singhu and Ghazipur borders and return to their originating points.” Police sources said the farmers had been instructed not to venture towards central Delhi. They said the farmer leaders had been told they would be “responsible for peaceful movement” and must ensure that “no anti-national slogans or posters are allowed”. Ever since announcing the tractor rally on January 2, the farmer leaders have maintained they would hold the event only after the official Republic Day parade was over and that the programme would be peaceful. Pathak said there would be heavy police deployment to prevent any possible disturbance. “Through intelligence and various other agencies we have continuously been receiving inputs about threats to create disturbances during the tractor rally,” he said. “Around 308 Twitter handles have been generated from Pakistan to create confusion.” Police sources said all officers and men, as well as the central paramilitary forces on security duty for the Republic Day parade, would remain on stand-by to move at short notice to handle any law-and-order issues during the tractor rally. Sunday’s clearance for the programme comes after a series of talks, during which the farmers had rejected a suggestion to hold the rally on the Kundli-Manesar-Palwal Expressway, which would have taken the event outside Delhi. Last week, the Supreme Court had got the Centre to withdraw an application seeking a stay on the tractor rally, saying: “Who will come to the city and who will be allowed is not something for us to see.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-390
25-01-2021||India||Evidence against Sudha Bharadwaj 'too poor' to be admissible, says lawyer||Yug Chaudhary, lawyer of activist Sudha Bharadwaj who has been in custody since her arrest in the Bhima Koregaon case in 2018, on Sunday said the purported evidence against her lacked “sanctity” and was “too poor” to be admissible. At a webinar, writers, activists and academics demanded that Bharadwaj be released from jail and urged the intelligentsia to follow her example and break their silence as the country’s institutions were no longer reliable. Writer Nayantara Sahgal, who had returned her Sahitya Academy award in 2015 in protest against the killing of rationalists, released a book, Sudha Bharadwaj Speaks: A Life in Law and Activism, at the event. Bharadwaj and 15 other rights activists, writers and lawyers are accused of involvement in a Maoist plot to attack the Prime Minister’s rallies and of instigating caste violence in connection with a December 31, 2017, Elgar Parishad meeting in Bhima Koregaon near Pune. The Parishad aims to foster harmony between OBCs, Marathas and Dalits. Currently, the case is being investigated by the National Investigation Agency. “The specific case against her is that she is a Maoist who participated in bomb-making, sponsored others for underground training and indoctrinated others into Maoism,” Chaudhary said. He said the purported evidence consisted of photocopies of typed, signature-less documents obtained from the laptops of co-accused Rona Wilson and Surendra Gadling, and none from Bharadwaj’s laptop. Chaudhary cited the Jain hawala case of 1991, relating to entries in diaries on payments allegedly made by the Jain bothers to prominent politicians. The Supreme Court dismissed the case, declining to accept these entries as evidence. “Similarly, in this case (against Bharadwaj), there is no corroborating evidence. The sanctity of the evidence they have cited is too poor to be admitted. There is no witness,” Chaudhary said. Sahgal described Bharadwaj as a heroic political activist who had given up the comforts of city life to live among the people in Chhattisgarh she was trying to help, inspired by trade union leader Shankar Guha Niyogi. “Sudha says that in the 1980s, courts did deliver pro-labourer judgments. But after the 1990s, when liberalisation started, everything went against the working class. The corporate (sector) has money to hire top lawyers and set their own terms,” Sahgal said. “These days the government is hand in glove with the corporate (sector). The country has never known a more desperate situation when we cannot rely on institutions, be it the Election Commission, judiciary or the media. So keeping silence is not an option. So Sudha’s courage stands to inspire us.” Bharadwaj’s daughter Maaysha said her mother missed home very much. The book is based on interviews of Bharadwaj taken by lawyers Darshana Mitra and Shantanu Chakravarty. “We asked why she started practising human rights law. Sudhaji said she wanted to be a trade unionist but the trade union wanted her to become a lawyer,” Mitra said. “For Sudhaji, any rights that are available to people are the outcome of the people’s fight. She believes that the Constitution comes to life and delivers only when the people fight.” Chakravarty said that even if a court dismissed a case, Bharadwaj never gave up the fight. “When asked about the dismissal of cases she had fought, she said she knew she had to fight on,” Chakravarty said. Activist Harsh Mander, who was collector of Rajnandgaon in the 1980s, said Guha Niyogi and Bharadwaj had met him at his office several times to discuss equality and justice for the people of the area. She fought many landmark cases on labour rights, displacement and equality, he said. Mander too flagged the lack of evidence against Bharadwaj in the Bhima Koregaon case. Academics Apoorvanand and Uma Chakraborty, who addressed the webinar, also demanded that Bharadwaj be released from jail.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-390
25-01-2021||India||How Trolley Times, voice of the farmers movement, came into being||The truth will out. If ignored on television, it will arrive in a trolley. That’s how Trolley Times, the voice of the farmers’ movement, came into being. Disturbed by claims in the mainstream media, particularly news channels, about Khalistani and Maoist hands in the farmers’ protest, a group of young men had decided to set up an independent platform that could emerge as the voice of the movement. As the farmers’ tractor trolleys had become a symbol of the protest, they instantly named their newspaper the Trolley Times. “The farmers were fighting the corporate-backed propaganda machinery. What complicated matters was that BJP leaders and supporters jumped in to malign the movement,” Ajaypal Natt, a member of the core team of the newspaper, told The Telegraph. “This rattled us: an honest struggle against laws clearly detrimental to farmers’ interests was being projected as a ploy by Khalistanis, terrorists and political agents. Most TV channels decided to crush the truth through this false propaganda. We thought the truth had to be told.” Ajaypal, a physiotherapist from Punjab who expects to have lost his regular job after his unsanctioned absence of two months, said: “Some of us came together, determined to execute this plan on our own. Friends contributed and we launched the Trolley Times.” Some 5,000 copies of the six-page newspaper, started on December 18, are printed in Hindi and Punjabi (in the Gurmukhi script), while the digital edition is published in English. An issue comes out about twice a week, and copies are distributed in eight countries by local sympathisers. The paper is translated in eight languages by enthusiastic volunteers who see it as the “voice of people’s movement”. “This is not the official mouthpiece of the farmers: the leadership wasn’t even in the know. The union leaders were approached much later. Now they are giving interviews to us and have started writing for us,” Ajaypal said. “Our objective was to multiply the voices of the farmers and counter the false propaganda. We seem to have succeeded to some extent.” Ajaypal has been at the Tikri border from the start. His entire family is at the protest — their house has been locked all this while. Surmeet Maavi, a scriptwriter who too is part of the core team, says there is a cost to leaving one’s family back in Ropar, Punjab, to join the agitation on Delhi’s borders. But he is determined to go on. “There are issues. There is a financial cost. But nothing is bigger than this cause,” Surmeet said. Gurdeep Singh, a layout and design artist, too is part of the core team as are Jasdeep Singh, Mukesh and Varun Chauhan, who looks after social media. Donation drives have yielded small sums — contrary to the wild allegations of foreign funding — that have so far sustained the 10 editions published. The Trolley Times publishes news reports about the agitation and articles on the history of farmers’ movements and the implications of the three contentious laws, apart from interviews, poems, photographs and cartoons. The core team members believe the experiment would not be restricted to farmers’ issues since other disgruntled segments of society, such as workers and the jobless youth, too would need their own publication to fight for their rights. While the frustration with the mainstream media was doubtless the motivating factor behind the initiative, those associated with the Trolley Times now realise that no newspaper can provide them with the dedicated space necessary to sustain their fight against the government propaganda and disabuse people of their misconceptions. “The Trolley Times reserves its entire space for the themes of struggle, explaining the laws and their implications, putting things in perspective, confronting falsehood and providing a platform for a national debate,” Ajaypal said. “Experts are writing for us; voices from the field across the country are getting reflected; historical perspectives are provided. News from all (protest) points — Singhu, Tikri, Shajahanpur and Ghazipur — are carried in detail.” Farmer leaders are providing point-by-point rebuttals of the government’s claims through the newspaper, and have also critically analysed the Supreme Court’s comment that the women agitators should go back home. The newspaper is keeping the revolutionary spirit aflame through the poems it publishes in Hindi and Punjabi. The latest edition had this from Gorakh Pandey: “Andhere kamron aur/ Band darwajon se/ Bahar sadak par/ Zulus mein aur/ Yuddh mein tumhare hone ke/ Din aa gaye hain (The time has come for you to step out of dark homes and closed doors and onto the road, to take part in rallies, in wars).”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-390
25-01-2021||India||Republic Day tractor rally to feature tableaux from across states ||The Republic Day tractor parade by farmers will feature a number of tableaux from across states depicting village life, the protest against the Centre’s contentious farm laws and will also hail their courage, according to the organisers. A farmer leader said directions had been issued to all organisations participating in the protest to prepare tableaux for the parade, much like the official Republic Day parade of the government. “Around one lakh tractor-trolleys from across the country will participate in the parade. Around 30 per cent of these will have tableaux on different themes, including the history of the farmers’ movement in India, the role of women farmers and the farming practices followed in different states,” he said. Children from Maharashtra’s Vidarbha region have planned a tableau on farmer suicides. “Children of farmers who committed suicide are expected to participate in the parade. Their tableau will depict the hardships faced by farmers of the region wracked by water scarcity,” a member of Swaraj India said. Tableaux from states such as Himachal Pradesh, Jammu and Kashmir and Uttarakhand will show how fruits and vegetables are cultivated in the hilly regions. Participants from Punjab and Haryana will showcase traditional and modern farming technology and will also have statues of women milking cows and farmers driving bullock carts. Each tractor will carry a Tricolour and there will be folk music and patriotic songs. A war room has been set up at each protest site to ensure effective coordination during the parade. There will be 40 members, including doctors, security personnel and social media managers, in each of these rooms, the SKM member said. Around 40 ambulances will be stationed along the route. Another farmer leader said around 2,500 volunteers had been deployed to ensure that the parade remained peaceful and no untoward incident took place. The volunteers have been given badges and identity cards. A team of ex-servicemen participating in the protest will also keep an eye on the security situation.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-390
25-01-2021||India||Thousands of farmers march to Mumbai||They came in an endless stream, down the hills and flooding the streets of India’s business capital, challenging the government’s theory that the farmers’ protest is limited to Punjab and Haryana. Thousands of farmers from across Maharashtra reached Mumbai on Sunday evening to participate in a rally on Monday against the Centre’s three new farm laws. Police have stepped up security at Azad Maidan, the rally’s venue in south Mumbai, and personnel of the State Reserve Police Force (SRPF) have also been deployed. Drones will be used to keep an eye on the event, a police officer said. The All India Kisan Sabha’s (AIKS) Maharashtra unit said in a statement that around 15,000 farmers had set out for the state capital from Nashik on Saturday on foot and in tempos and other vehicles. NCP chief Sharad Pawar and some other prominent leaders of the ruling coalition in Mahatrashtra will address the rally, the release said. The state Congress, which is an ally in the government, has extended its support to the protest. Farmers from various places gathered in Nashik and started their journey towards Mumbai on Saturday. Many peasants also joined on the way, the AIKS said. Videos on social media showed a surge of people marching through hilly terrain, shouting slogans. They halted overnight at Ghatandevi near the hill town of Igatpuri. On Sunday morning, the farmers marched down the Kasara Ghat to head for Mumbai, while many set off in vehicles. Many women farmers took part in the 7km march at Kasara Ghat, which started at 9am and ended around 11.30am. Later, they continued their forward journey in vehicles. On the way, hundreds of Citu-affiliated factory workers from Igatpuri and Shahapur tehsils welcomed the farmers by showering flowers. At the Kalyan-Bhiwandi crossroad, the farmers were welcomed and provided food packets. They entered Mumbai through the Mulund checkpoint, the entry point to the state capital from neighbouring Thane, and were welcomed at Kannamwar Nagar in Vikhroli by hundreds of workers of the Left parties. The farmers then proceeded towards the Azad Maidan, where a joint sit-in also involving the Samyukta Shetkari Kamgar Morcha began on Sunday morning and will continue till Republic Day. “The rally is being held to support and expand the two-month-long farmers’ struggle in Delhi for a repeal of the three farm laws and for a central law to guarantee a remunerative minimum support price (MSP) and procurement all over the country,” the AIKS statement said. The Samyukta Kisan Morcha, under whose banner farm unions are protesting across the country, has given a nationwide call for a struggle from January 23 to 26, including rallies to Raj Bhavans in states. Over 100 organisations came together and formed the Samyukta Shetkari Kamgar Morcha, Maharashtra, at a meeting in Mumbai on January 12. The Mumbai rally will begin at 11am on Monday, the AIKS release said. Later, the protesters will march to Raj Bhavan and submit a memorandum to governor B.S. Koshyari. The protesters have also decided to hoist the national flag at Azad Maidan on Republic Day and pledge to make the struggle of the peasants and workers successful.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-390
25-01-2021||India||Kerala’s govt to hand over Congress rape case to CBI ||Kerala’s Left government has decided to hand over to the CBI a case in which several senior Congress leaders have been accused of rape, prompting the main Opposition party to allege a politically motivated move ahead of the summer Assembly polls. According to the complainant, herself the prime accused in the 2013 “solar scam”, she had been forced to not just bribe Congress leaders but sleep with them — when the party was in power (2011-16) — for help to float a company that would make solar panels. Among the accused are then chief minister Oommen Chandy, Congress general secretary K.C. Venugopal, Adoor Prakash, A.P. Anil Kumar and his secretary Sahadullah, MP Hibi Eden and A.P. Abdullakutty, who is now in the BJP. The woman levelled the charges in 2013 through a media statement from jail shortly after being arrested in the solar scam, accused of cheating a large number of people by getting them to invest in her company that soon went bust. The rape case was registered in 2018, two years after the Left had come to power and the woman had had her statement recorded before a magistrate. Chandy said: “The government sat on this case for five years and has now decided to hand it over to the CBI. This only shows the secret understanding between the CPM and the BJP.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-390
25-01-2021||India||Ladakh turns blind eye to Muslim population for R-Day parade||The Ladakh administration’s purported move to showcase Buddhist culture and be oblivious to the culture of the majority Muslim population during the fledgling Union Territory’s debut Republic Day parade in the national capital has triggered fresh communal tension in the region, with the elected head of Kargil writing to the lieutenant governor to express his outrage. For the first time, no tableau from Jammu and Kashmir will participate in the event and while Ladakh has found a place, its Muslims are reportedly finding no representation. Kargil chief executive officer Feroz Ahmad Khan has hit out at the Ladakh administration for allegedly ignoring the region’s rich diversity in the first ever tableau from the Union Territory to be showcased in the capital, claiming that their “religious and cultural heritage” has been ignored. Ladakh comprises of Muslim-majority Kargil and Buddhist-majority Leh districts but Muslims have a slender majority in the region as a whole. The two communities have been at loggerheads for long but the 2019 decision to scrap Jammu and Kashmir’s special status and carve out a separate Union Territory of Ladakh has deepened the divide. Muslims opposed the move while the Buddhists celebrated. The Muslims, though in majority, have always feared domination by the more influential Buddhists, and the administration’s move to showcase Buddhist culture has stoked those misgivings. Khan has written to Ladakh lieutenant governor R.K. Mathur against “the partial representation of the UT at an event as prominent as the Republic Day celebration”, alleging that “it alienates the people of Kargil district”. “It is unfortunate to note that only a single aspect of Ladakhi culture has been incorporated for display on Ladakh’s Republic Day 2021 tableau, thereby failing to showcase the rich and diverse religious-cultural fabric of Ladakh. It is felt that partial representation of the UT at an event as prominent as the Republic Day celebration alienates the people of Kargil district,” Khan’s letter stated. “LAHDC (Ladakh Autonomous Hill Development Council), Kargil, wishes to request you to kindly pass necessary directions to the concerned for the incorporation of religious/heritage sites and cultural ethos of Kargil district in the UT Ladakh tableau,” it added. Union minister Dr Jintedra Singh appeared to be confirming the claim of the Kargil leadership. “A tableau from #Ladakh will participate in #RepublicDay Parade on Rajpath for first time this year. Ladakh’s tableau depicts the iconic Thikse Monastery located on top of a hill in Thikse in Leh district, and is one of the most-visited tourist sites in the region,” he tweeted.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-390
