26-01-2021||India||Yogendra Yadav ‘feels ashamed of the way things proceeded’ in Delhi||Swaraj India chief Yogendra Yadav took responsibility for the way the farmers’ tractor parade turned out on Tuesday, saying he felt ‘ashamed’ of it. “Being a part of the protest," he said, "I feel ashamed of the way things proceeded and I take responsibility for it,” he said. The tractor march meant to highlight farmers’ demands turned into anarchy on the streets of the national capital as hordes of rampaging protesters broke through barriers, fought with police, overturned vehicles and delivered a national insult -- hoisting a religious flag from the rampart of Red Fort, just beside India’s tricolour. “Violence impacts any kind of protest in a wrong way. I cannot say at the moment who did it and who did not, but prima facie it looks like it has been done by the people that we kept out of the farmers' protest,” Yadav told a TV channel. “I appealed continuously that we stick to whatever route was decided and not deviate. Only if the movement goes peacefully, we will be able to win,” said Yadav, who has been supporting the farmers’ agitation against the new agriculture laws. Meanwhile, the Samayukta Kisan Morcha,  an umbrella body of 41 farmer unions, said they have called off the parade. “We have called off the farmers' Republic Day parade with immediate effect and appealed to all participants to immediately return to their respective protest sites. The movement will continue peacefully and further steps will be discussed and decided soon,” the farmers’ organisation said in a statement. Tens of thousands of protesters clashed with police in multiple places, leading to chaos in well-known landmarks of Delhi and suburbs, amid waves of violence that ebbed and flowed through the day, leaving the farmers' two-month peaceful movement in tatters. Farmer leaders, who have been spearheading the protest at the national capital's border points to demand a repeal of the farm laws, distanced themselves from the protests that had taken such an unseemly turn and threatened to shift public sympathy from their movement. In another statement earlier in the evening, the Morcha alleged that some “antisocial elements” infiltrated their otherwise peaceful movement.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-386
26-01-2021||India||Friends say he was shot, police say he died as his tractor rolled over||A white and purple woolen blanket that has a hole charred at the edges, an empty from a spent tear gas canister and icky red blood turning brown on the black asphalt mark the spot where Navdeep Singh Hundal died. Farmers and his friends say he was killed, shot in the head by the Delhi Police half a kilometer from the headquarters in the busiest ITO crossing. The Delhi Police said he died in an accident when his tractor rolled over because he could not control it, according to CCTV footage that the Delhi Police has briefed city reporters on. All of them agree that Navdeep Singh Hundal, all of 26 years, had returned from Australia last year when he married in February. His wife is still in Australia, said his neighbours from his village Dibdiba near the inter-district boundary of Rampur-Bilaspur in Uttar Pradesh. This evening at 5pm the ITO Crossing between Vikas Marg, Bahadur Shah Zafar Marg and Deendayal Upadhyay Marg was a thrum of people seated on the road cross-legged around his body draped in the National Flag. They were all angry and sad. This reporter could not ask for the flag to be lifted then and there to examine his alleged bullet injury in the left temple. The body was to be taken for post-mortem. Before that it would also go to Ghazipur on the UP-Delhi border from where Navdeep drove his Sonalika tractor with three other friends in it to head for the Red Fort. “The Delhi Police failed to give proper directions,” said Rakesh Tikait, the leader and spokesperson of his faction of the Bharatiya Kisan Union (BKU) that has been camping at the Ghazipur border along with farmers of the Terai Kisan Union led by Tejinder Singh Virk. “Many of these people do not know the roads of Delhi. They have to be told and shown the way,” said Tikait, a son of the late Mahendra Singh Tikait who famously led a farmers’ rally to the capital in 1988. Gurpal Singh, who knew Navdeep as a neighbour but does not want to identify his village because he fears the UP police will harass his family, guided me to the spot in front of the Andhra Education Society that is cheek by jowl with the Gandhi Peace Foundation’s office. “Dibdiba (Navdeep’s village) is close to mine,” he said. A tall and fair Sardar with a black turban, Gurpal said Navdeep had fallen behind in the convoy when it was rolling down from Vikas Marg to the east. Instead of turning right on Bahadur Shah Zafar Marg to go to the Lal Quila (Red Fort), he went straight ahead. The police shot tear gas. The gas went into Navdeep’s and his friends’ eyes. He tried to take a sharp U turn with his Sonalika tractor and the vehicle rolled over. As it happened a shot rang out and the bullet went into his head, said Gurpal pointing to his left temple, above the eye but before the ear, with two pointed fingers and three rolled into a fist. In the official media story that is being carried, the youth died in an accident, the spot surrounded by yellow grilled barricades with rollers that people in Delhi are used to. Navdeep, according to Gurpal, was to turn right on Bahadur Shah Zafar Marg, popular because of the many news organisations officed there that are now mostly emptied because of a pandemic year. Gurpal shows a tear gas canister fired by the police. It is from the Border Security Force’s Tekanpur establishment dated 2014. Beyond its expiry date, says the label (see picture). It makes little sense because if you want to gas a people the live-by date is what you would least care about. The NDTV news channel has reported this:  “CCTV footage of the incident showed a blue tractor crashing through yellow Delhi Police barricades at high speed before rolling over twice and coming to rest by the side of the road. However, some farmers at the site - near the Deen Dayal Upadhyaya Marg - claimed he was killed in police firing and began a sit-in protest. The farmer has been identified as Navdeep Singh Hundal, 26, from Uttarakhand's Bajpur area. Two other farmers, Angrez Singh and his son from a village in Uttarakhand's Rudrapur, told NDTV Navdeep Singh had recently been married.” In trying to report the event from the spot, it must be said, that the services of the internet on mobile phones were jammed. It is not that messages were not going through. They were being delayed, as if they were being relayed after vetting. Navdeep’s body was brought back to Ghazipur, on the Delhi-UP border, still draped in the Tricolor. There is a thrum again here. As I push my way through the throng and try to take pictures on the mobile phone, the Sardar escorting says “yahaan photo lena mana hain (it is prohibited to take photographs here)”. They are waiting for his father to arrive. His father was delivering a trolley-load of sugarcane to a mill in Rampur, western Uttar Pradesh, when he was told his son is dead. They had about 20 acres, said Atinder, another neighbour. “Pada likha aur khushhaal the, lekin Dilli ka raasta nahin pata tha (they were literate and prosperous but did not know the roads of Delhi),” said Atinder. In the night sky over Ghazipur, there is “Satnaam Waheguru” that is chorused. It is plaintive.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-386
26-01-2021||India||Farmers violated agreements, injured our personnel, say Delhi Police||Protesting farmers violated the conditions pre-agreed for their tractor parade and resorted to violence and vandalism, leaving many police personnel injured, the Delhi Police said on Tuesday. Releasing a statement, the police also claimed the force did all due diligence in following the conditions for the rally, but the protesters began their march much ahead of the scheduled time and extensive damage to public property was caused. The police statement came as the national capital witnessed violent scenes during a tractor parade by farmers who entered the city in their tractors from different points to press for their demand of repealing the three new agri laws. “The protesters violated conditions fixed for the rally. The farmers began their tractor rally before scheduled time, they also resorted to violence and vandalism,” Delhi Police PRO Eish Singhal said. “We followed all conditions as promised and did our due diligence but the protest led to extensive damage to public property. Many policemen were also injured during the protest,” Singhal said, without mentioning the exact number of personnel injured. The Samyukta Kisan Morcha, an umbrella organisation of 41 farmers’ units, which is leading the protest, dissociated themselves from the violence. It alleged that ‘anti-social- elements had infiltrated their ‘otherwise peaceful’ movement. Wielding sticks and clubs and holding the tricolour and union flags, tens of thousands of farmers atop tractors broke barriers, clashed with police and entered the city from various points to lay siege to the Red Fort and climb the flagpole on Republic Day on Tuesday. If police used teargas shells to disperse the restive crowds in some places, hundreds of farmers in ITO were seen chasing them with sticks and ramming their tractors into parked buses. A protester died after his tractor overturned.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-387
26-01-2021||India||Amarinder condemns Delhi violence, asks agitators to vacate capital ||Punjab Chief Minister Amarinder Singh on Tuesday said the violence during the farmers' tractor parade against the new agriculture laws in Delhi is unacceptable and urged the peasants to vacate the national capital. He said the violence will negate the goodwill earned by peaceful protesting farmers. Shocking scenes in Delhi. The violence by some elements is unacceptable. It'll negate goodwill generated by peacefully protesting farmers. Kisan leaders have disassociated themselves & suspended #TractorRally. I urge all genuine farmers to vacate Delhi & return to borders, Singh said in a tweet. Wielding sticks and clubs and holding the tricolour and union flags, tens of thousands of farmers atop tractors broke barriers, clashed with police and entered the city from various points to lay siege to the Red Fort and climb the flagpole on Republic Day on Tuesday. The Punjab chief minister on Monday had appealed to farmers to ensure that the tractor parade remains peaceful. Farmers, mostly from Punjab, Haryana and western Uttar Pradesh, have been camping at several border points of Delhi for the past several weeks, demanding a repeal of the three farm laws and a legal guarantee to the minimum support price (MSP) for their crops.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-387
26-01-2021||India||Farmer dies at Delhi’s ITO as tractor overturns||A protesting farmer died during the Republic Day march in Central Delhi’s ITO as his tractor overturned, police said on Tuesday. They said the details about the deceased are yet to be gathered. The man died as his tractor overturned at ITO where many farmers participating in the parade had reached from the Ghazipur border after taking a detour of the pre-agreed route for the march, a senior police officer said. Police said the man was driving the tractor and he came under the vehicle as it overturned. The farmers draped the body in the tricolour and kept it at the ITO crossing, not allowing the police to send it for post-mortem. The farmers also lashed out at the mediapersons covering the incident. Protesting farmers clashed with police at several places in the national capital and entered the iconic Red Fort and ITO in the heart of the city on Tuesday after hundreds of them deviated from pre-decided routes, prompting security personnel to resort to lathicharge and tear gas. Chaotic scenes were witnessed at ITO, where hundreds of protesters could be seen chasing police personnel with sticks and ramming their tractors into the buses parked by police. The Samyukta Kisan Morcha, an umbrella organisation of 41 farmers’ units, which is leading the protest, dissociated themselves from the violence. It alleged that ‘anti-social- elements had infiltrated their ‘otherwise peaceful’ movement. “We thank farmers for the unprecedented participation in today’s farmers’ Republic Day Parade. “We also condemn and regret the undesirable and unacceptable events that have taken place today and dissociate ourselves from those indulging in such acts,” the farmers’ organisation said in a statement.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-387
26-01-2021||India||Farmers storm Red Fort as protest gets unruly on Republic Day  ||Wielding sticks and clubs and holding the Tricolour and union flags, tens of thousands of farmers atop tractors broke barriers, clashed with police and entered Delhi from various points to lay siege to the Red Fort and climb a flagpole, marring Republic Day celebrations on Tuesday. While farmer leaders, who have been spearheading the two-month protest at the national capital's border points to demand a repeal of the farm laws, disowned the protesters, one young man was seen hoisting a yellow triangular flag at a flagpole on the ramparts of the iconic monument. The protesters were later removed from the premises of the Red Fort. The government also ordered internet services to be shut in parts of Delhi as a security measure. As per an order sent to telecom service providers internet was suspended in areas of Singhu, Ghazipur, Tikri, Mukarba Chowk and Nangloi and their adjoining areas in the NCT of Delhi from 12.00 hours to 23.59 hours on Tuesday. At night, the Samyukt Kisan Morcha called off the tractor parade and appealed to participants to immediately return to their respective protest sites. Farmers continued to camp at several places in the national capital till late evening and there was no pre-decided time for concluding the parade. "We have called off the farmers' Republic Day parade with immediate effect and appealed to all participants to immediately return back to their respective protest sites. The movement will continue peacefully and further steps will be discussed and decided soon," the farmers' union body said in a statement. Eclipsing the annual show of military might at Rajpath, the farmers who were supposed to take out a tractor parade on pre-decided routes after the Republic Day event was over, breached both conditions. Clashes and lathi-charges broke out in many places between a section of the protesters, many of them young, vocal and aggressive, and police personnel. If police used teargas shells to disperse the restive crowds in some places, hundreds of farmers at ITO were seen chasing them with sticks and ramming their tractors into parked buses. A protester died after his tractor overturned. ITO resembled a war zone with a car being vandalised by angry protesters and shells, bricks and stones littering the wide streets, testimony that the avowedly “peaceful” farmers’ movement of two months was no longer so. Farmers on horses As the day progressed and thousands of farmers roamed restlessly, thousands more congregated at Red Fort on foot, tractor and some even on horses -- about 4km from ITO. In unprecedented scenes, protesters entered the complex of the Mughal era monument and attempted to climb the domes and the ramparts, some clambering up the flagpole to hoist a flag from the same place the Prime Minister unfurls the Tricolour from on Independence Day. Tension spiralled as the crowds swelled. Pushed back by police from ITO, some protesting farmers drove their tractors to Red Fort complex. Uniformed security personnel looked on as people gathered in larger numbers. Though there were no immediate reports of injuries, ambulances could be seen entering the Red Fort complex. There was a mild lathi-charge with police removing protesting farmers from the Red Fort. The tension was mirrored elsewhere in the city too. Police lathi-charged farmers at Chintamani Chowk in Shahdara when they broke barricades and smashed windowpanes of cars. A group of Nihangs (traditional Sikh warriors) clashed with security personnel near Akshardham Temple. And at Nangloi Chowk in west Delhi and at Mukarba Chowk farmers broke cemented barricades forcing police to use tear gas. Farmers’ collective disowns protesters As chaos reigned with flashpoints aplenty, farm union leaders distanced themselves from what was going on. "We condemn violence against farmers, appeal to all to maintain peace," Balbir Singh Rajewal, one of the leaders, told PTI. A member of the Samyukta Kisan Morcha, unions, leading the protest against the three central farm laws at several border points of Delhi, said those who broke the barricades at Tikri border points belonged to the Kisan Mazdoor Sangharsh Committee. The Sangharsh committee had on Monday announced that its members would hold their march on Delhi's busy Outer Ring Road on Republic Day, and not on the route that was agreed upon by the Morcha and Delhi police. Swaraj India leader Yogendra Yadav also said he was appealing with folded hands for peace. “Today is Republic Day,” he said. Later, the Morcha leader said their tractor parade would start as scheduled after police gave them way. Songs and a merry cavalcade The day began on a celebratory note with farmers chanting 'Rang de basanti' and 'Jai jawan jai kisan' crossing the national border on tractors, motorbikes, horses and even cranes. Local residents stood on both sides of the roads at various locations showering flower petals on them. Standing atop vehicles decked up with flags, protesters danced to the tune of patriotic songs like Aisa desh hai mera and Sare jahan se achcha. But the mood changed soon after. Delhi Police appealed to protesting farmers to not take the law into their hands and maintain peace as the violence broke out. The police also asked farmers to head back to their pre-decided routes for the tractor parade.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-387
26-01-2021||India||Farmers’ union dissociates itself from ‘antisocial elements’ in rally||Farmers’ union organisation Samyukta Kisan Morcha said some ‘antisocial elements’ infiltrated their tractor rally on Tuesday, and dissociated  itself from those who indulged in violence during the parade. The union also condemned and regretted the "undesirable" and "unacceptable" events as the parade turned violent after several groups of farmers deviated from the pre-decided route for the march. The Samkyukt Kisan Morcha, an umbrella body of 41 farmer unions, is leading the protest against the three central farm laws at several border points of Delhi. “We thank farmers for the unprecedented participation in today’s farmers’ Republic Day Parade. “We also condemn and regret the undesirable and unacceptable events that have taken place today and dissociate ourselves from those indulging in such acts,” the farmers’ organisation said in a statement. “Despite all our efforts, some organisations and individuals have violated the route and indulged in condemnable acts. Antisocial elements had infiltrated the otherwise peaceful movement. We have always held that peace is our biggest strength, and that any violation would hurt the movement,” it said. Its statement comes as farmers clashed with police at several places in the national capital. A protesting farmer died at Delhi's ITO after his tractor overturned. Police also had to use lathicharge and teargas shells to control unruly protesters at multiple locations in the city. “We dissociate ourselves from all such elements that have violated our discipline. We appeal strongly to everyone to stick to the route and norms of the parade, and not indulge in any violent action or anything that taints national symbols and dignity. We appeal to everyone to desist from any such acts,” the Morcha added. “We are trying to get a full picture of all the events with regard to the several parades that were planned today and will share a full statement soon. Our information is that apart from some regrettable violations, the parades are underway peacefully as per plan,” it said. Welding sticks and clubs and holding the tricolour and union flags, tens of thousands of farmers atop tractors broke barriers, clashed with police and entered the city from various points to lay siege to the Red Fort and climb the flagpole on Republic Day on Tuesday.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-387
26-01-2021||India||Congress leaders ask farmers not to resort to violence||Violence is not the solution to any problem, Congress leader Rahul Gandhi said as the Delhi Police clashed with protesting farmers on Tuesday amid their tractor rally, at several places in the national capital. Gandhi also sought repeal of the three farm laws in “national interest”. Taking to Twitter, he said that if anyone gets hurt the damage will be inflicted to the country, after violence broke out during the tractor parade by protesters against the new farm laws. “Violence is not the solution to any problem. If anyone gets hurt, the damage will be done to our country. Take back the anti-agricultural laws in national interest,” he said in a tweet in Hindi. Deviating from the designated route for the tractor parade, protesting farmers entered the Red Fort and hoisted flags from some domes of the iconic monument in the national capital. They earlier clashed with the police at ITO while trying to enter Lutyens Delhi. The police used tear gas shells and lathi-charge to dispel the protesters. The farmers, who began their march from different border points, much before the time permitted for their tractor rally, reached ITO in Central Delhi, though their leaders had earlier agreed not to enter central Delhi. The Congress also tweeted a video showing smoke from tear gas shells lobbed at farmers to stop them from entering Delhi. “Republic Day 2021 in New India. Our national capital is up in smoke as the government attacks its own people,” the party said on its official Twitter handle along with the video. The opposition party also said that it is standing strongly behind the farmers in their protest against the farm laws. Echoing Gandhi’s stand, Rajasthan chief minister Ashok Gehlot on Tuesday appealed to the protesting farmers to maintain peace and not resort to violence. He said there was no place for violence in a democracy. “The farmers’ movement has been peaceful till now. I appeal to the farmers to maintain peace and not to commit violence. Violence has no place in democracy,” Gehlot tweeted. He said resorting to violence will lead to the success of the forces that are trying to make the farmers’ movement unsuccessful.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-387
26-01-2021||India||Farmers storm Red Fort, clash with police in Delhi  ||Protesting farmers clashed with police at several places in the national capital and entered the iconic Red Fort and ITO in the heart of the national capital, with hundreds of them deviating from pre-decided routes, prompting security personnel to resort to lathi-charge and tear gas. Pushed back by the police from the ITO in Central Delhi a section of the protesting farmers drove their tractors to Red Fort complex. Chaos reigned for nearly 90 minutes as some protesters, including 'Nihangs' (traditional Sikh warriors), forced their way into the Red Fort and hoisted a flag from the staff from which the prime minister unfurls the tricolour on Independence Day. Later, Delhi police were able to remove the troublemaking farmers from Red Fort premises where they had barged in. Earlier, a clash broke out between police and protesting farmers after the latter reached ITO and tried to push towards Lutyen's Delhi, prompting the force to resort to lathi-charge and use tear gas shells against them. Chaotic scenes were witnessed at ITO, where hundreds of protesters could be seen chasing police personnel with sticks and ramming their tractors into the buses parked by police. At the ITO, a bus was vandalised by angry farmers. Police on Tuesday fired tear gas shells and lathi-charged farmers when they clashed with the force in parts of city. Police used tear gas on groups of farmers and resorted to baton charge as protestors broke past barricades with tractors at different border points and did not take the pre-decided routes for their march in the national capital. The Delhi Police had given permission to farmers protesting the three farm laws to hold their tractor parade on selected routes only after the official Republic Day parade on the Rajpath concludes. However, chaos ensued as the farmers were adamant on heading towards central Delhi. In the morning, groups of protesting farmers camping at Singhu and Tikri border points of the national capital broke police barricades to force their way into the city. The ITO resembled a war zone as restive crowds of farmers and uniformed security personnel could be seen in the area. Police fired tear gas shells at hundreds of farmers who wielded sticks and clubs and entered ITO, a few kilometres away from Parliament, in an effort to move towards Rajpath. Police baton-charged farmers at Chintamani Chowk in Shahdara when they broke barricades and smashed windowpanes of cars. A group of 'Nihangs' (traditional Sikh warriors) clashed with security personnel near Akshardham Temple. At Nangloi Chowk in west Delhi and at Mukarba Chowk farmers broke cemented barricades and police used tear gas to disperse them. An official said police personnel used tear gas to disperse groups of farmers coming from the Singhu border point as they tried to hold a march on the Outer Ring Road much ahead of the allotted time. Meanwhile, senior farmer Balbir Singh Rajewal said farmers were following the pre-decided route. No one from the Sankyukt Kisan Morcha went to the Outer Ring Road. "We condemn violence against farmers, appeal to all to maintain peace," Rajewal told PTI. The Delhi Police appealed to the protesting farmers to not take law in their hands and maintain peace as clashes between the force and protesting farmers broke out at a number of places in the national capital. The police also asked the farmers to head back to their pre-decided routes for the tractor parade. "We request to the protesting farmers to not take law in their hands and maintain peace," Additional PRO Anil Mittal said. A member of the Sankyukt Kisan Morcha, an umbrella body of 41 unions, leading the protest against the three central farm laws at several border points of Delhi, said those who broke the barricades at Tikri border points belonged to the Kisan Mazdoor Sangharsh Committee. He said the Sankyukt Kisan Morcha's tractor parade will start as scheduled after police give farmers way. The Kisan Mazdoor Sangharsh Committee on Monday announced that they would hold their march on Delhi's busy Outer Ring Road on Republic Day. The entry and exit gates of more than 10 metro stations in central and north Delhi were temporarily closed on Tuesday following clashes between police and protesting farmers in part of the national capital. The Delhi Metro Rail Corporation took to Twitter to inform the public about the temporary closure of metro station gates. "Entry/exit gates of Indraprastha metro station are closed. Entry/exit gates of Samaypur Badli, Rohini Sector 18/19, Haiderpur Badli Mor, Jahangir Puri, Adarsh Nagar, Azadpur, Model Town, GTB Nagar, Vishwavidyalaya, Vidhan Sabha and Civil Lines are closed," the DMRC tweeted. Earlier in the day, chanting 'rang de basanti' and 'jai jawan jai kisan' numerous farmers rode tractors, motorbikes, horses and even cranes to cross the national capital's borders into the city for their proposed parade against the three contentious farm laws. Locals stood on both sides of the roads at various locations showering flower petals on the farmers amid drum beats. Standing atop vehicles decked up with flags, the protesters danced to the tune of patriotic songs such as 'Aisa desh hai mera' and 'Sare jahan se achcha'. Thousands of farmers, mostly from Punjab, Haryana and western Uttar Pradesh, have been camping at several Delhi border points since November 28, demanding a complete repeal of three farm laws and a legal guarantee on minimum support price for their crops.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-387
26-01-2021||India||'Mooktijoddha' team from Bangladesh in R-Day parade of many firsts||In a display of India's military might, Rafale fighter jets took part in the Republic Day flypast for the first time as the armed forces showcased its T-90 tanks, the Samvijay electronic warfare system and Sukhoi-30 MKI fighter jets on the Rajpath on Tuesday. Depicting the nation's rich cultural heritage and economic progress, 17 tableaux from states and union territories and nine from different Union ministries and paramilitary forces took part in the 72nd Republic day parade. Six tableaux of the defence ministry also attended the event. School children performed folk arts and crafts displaying skills and dexterity handed down from generations. Bajasal, a folk dance from Kalahandi in Odisha, the Fit India Movement and Aatmanirbhar Bharat were also displayed on the Rajpath. This year, the attendance to the Republic Day parade was limited due to the COVID-19 pandemic. Those below 15 years of age and above 65 were not allowed among the visitors at the venue. The parade also witnessed several major changes. The contingents only marched a distance of 3.5 km instead of the usual 8.5 km and for the first time in 55 years, no foreign dignitary attended the January 26 parade. However, a 122-member contingent of the Bangladesh armed forces marched on Rajpath. They carried the legacy of legendary muktijoddhas of Bangladesh, who fought against "oppression and mass atrocities" and liberated the country in 1971. India is currently celebrating the Swarnim Vijay Varsh -- the Golden Jubilee year -- commemorating the country's victory over Pakistan in the 1971 war that led to the creation of Bangladesh. The Indian Army showcased its main battle tank T-90 Bhishma, infantry combat vehicle BMP-II-Sarath, mobile autonomous launcher of the BrahMos missile system, multi-launcher rocket system Pinaka, electronic warfare system Samvijay among others during the parade on Tuesday. The Navy's tableau at the Republic Day parade this year displayed models of Indian naval ship (INS) Vikrant and naval operations that were conducted during the 1971 India-Pakistan war. The Air Force exhibited models of light combat aircraft Tejas and indigenously developed anti-tank guided missile Dhruvastra on its tableaus during the parade. Scaled-down models of the Light Combat Helicopter, Sukhoi-30 MKI fighter jet and Rohini radar were also part of the IAF tableaux. A total of 38 IAF aircraft, include Rafale, and four planes of the Indian Army participated in the flypast. The Defence Research and Development Organisation (DRDO) presented two tableaus at this year's parade, one showcasing light combat aircraft Tejas' successful take off from aircraft carrier INS Vikramaditya in 2020, and another displaying full complement of the anti-tank guided missile systems. The Republic Day parade ceremony commenced with Prime Minister Narendra Modi visiting the National War Memorial in the morning. The tricolour was unfurled followed by the national anthem with a booming 21-gun salute. The parade commenced with President Ram Nath Kovind taking the salute. Seventeen tableaux from various states and union territories, namely, Gujarat, Assam, Tamil Nadu, Maharashtra, Uttarakhand, Chhattisgarh, Punjab, Tripura, West Bengal, Sikkim, Uttar Pradesh, Karnataka, Kerala, Andhra Pradesh, Arunachal Pradesh, Delhi and Ladakh were showcased during the parade, depicting the geographical and rich cultural diversity of the country. The tableaux highlighted the vision for Ladakh to be carbon neutral, the Sun temple at Modhera in Mehsana District of Gujarat, tea-tribes of Assam, shore temple and other monuments of Pallava Dynasty in Tamil Nadu, Bhakti Movement and saints of Maharashtra, among others.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-387
26-01-2021||India||Rafale aircraft makes debut in R-Day flypast||The newly inducted Rafale fighter aircraft featured for the first time in India's Republic Day flypast as it carried out the 'Brahmastra' formation alone and was part of the 'Eklavya' formation with four other fighter jets. The fighter jet conducted Eklavya formation by flying at a height of around 300 meters along with two Jagaur and two MIG-29 aircraft. The five jets resembled a V shape with Rafale leading the pack. The 25,000 strong audience was able to see Rafale fighter jet again when it culminated the flypast by conducting the Brahmastra formation wherein it traversed at a low altitude for some distance, then pulled up vertically at 90 degrees and conducted rolls before stabilising at a higher altitude. In a major boost to India's air power capability, five French-made multirole Rafale fighter jets were inducted into the IAF on September 10 last year. A total of 38 IAF aircraft and four planes of the Indian Army participated in the flypast on Tuesday. As is traditionally the case on Republic Day, flypast was divided into two blocks: the first was along with the parade and the second was after the parade. In the first block, there were three formations. The first was the 'Nishan' formation comprising of four Mi17V5 aircraft that carried the national flag and logos of all three services. It was followed by the 'Dhruv' formation by four helicopters of Army Aviation Corps. The last was the 'Rudra' formation -- comprising a single Dakota aircraft flanked by two Mi17V5 helicopters -- which celebrated the 50th anniversary of the country's victory in the 1971 war. Dakotas played a major role during that war. On December 16 last year, India launched year-long celebrations of its victory over Pakistan in the 1971 war that led to the creation of Bangladesh. The second block of the flypast consisted of nine formations. These nine formations were 'Sudarshan', 'Rakshak', 'Bhim', 'Netra', 'Garuda', 'Eklavya', 'Trinetra', 'Vijay' and 'Brahmastra'. Sudarshan formation had one Chinook and two Mi17V5 helicopters, Rakshak formation comprised one Mi-35 and four Apache helicopters, Bhim formation consisted of three C-130J aircraft and Netra formation comprised indigenously developed early warning and control aircraft Netra flanked by two Sukhoi-30 fighter jets. Garuda formation had one C-17 Globemaster plane with two MIG-29 and two Sukhoi-30 MKI aircraft. Trinetra formation comprised three Sukhoi-30 MKIs. Vijay formation showcased three advanced light helicopters. The IAF showcased models of Light Combat Aircraft (LCA) Tejas and indigenously developed anti-tank guided missile Dhruvastra on its tableaus during the Republic Day parade. They also showcased scaled-down models of Light Combat Helicopter (LCH), Sukhoi-30 MKI fighter jet and Rohini radar on the tableaus. Indigenously developed next-generation anti-radiation missile Rudram and anti-tank guided missile Dhruvastra were displayed on the LCA and the LCH respectively, on the tableaus. Sukhoi-30Mki was displayed with indigenously developed Astra and Brahmos missiles at the tableau. Indigenously developed Akash missile was displayed along with the Rohini radar. The IAF's marching contingent at the parade consisted of four officers and 96 soldiers marching in a box formation of 12 rows and eight columns. The marching contingent was led by Flight Lieutenant Tanik Sharma and three supernumerary officers -- Flight Lieutenant Manjeet Singh, Flight Lieutenant Apoorva Yadav and Flying Officer Kuttapa.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-387
26-01-2021||India||Farmer groups break barricades with tractors in Delhi areas ||Thousands of farmers protesting against the three farm laws began their first of a kind tractor parade in the national capital, much before the time they were granted permission by Delhi Police for the event. At Delhi's Mukarba Chowk, security personnel used tear gas on groups of farmers as they tried to break barricades and cemented barriers erected there with tractors. While farmers' unions assured the Delhi Police that their tractor parade would only start after the official Republic Day concludes, farmers camping at Singhu, Tikri and Ghazipur started marching into the national capital on their tractors before that. A member of the Sankyukt Kisan Morcha, an umbrella body of 41 unions, leading the protest at several border points of Delhi, said those who broke the barricades belonged to the Kisan Mazdoor Sangharsh Committee. Security personnel tried to convince farmers to stick to the decided plan, but they did not relent and forced their way into the city. Clearly, police were out-numbered. Tractors bearing flags were seen, along with men and women dancing with dhols, with local residents on both sides of the road showering petals on their cavalcade. Standing atop vehicles decked up with flags, the protesters danced to the tune of patriotic songs like “Aisa desh hai mera” and “Sare jahan se achcha”. "People think farmers are only meant to plough their fields. But there is much more to a farmer's life. We also ride motorbikes and horses though we worship our tractors as it helps in earning our bread and butter. "Today, everything is on display in this historical rally," said Gagan Singh, a protestor riding a horse to the parade. Parmajeet Bibi, a woman in her late 40s, who was riding a tractor said, "Women are not just cooking at community kitchens. We help men in the fields and we are riding tractors in this rally to send out a strong message". Farmers also held their tractor parade in other parts of the country as they intensified their agitation against the three contentious farm laws. An official said that police personnel used tear gas on groups of farmers coming from the Singhu border point to disperse them after they tried to hold their march on Outer Ring Road. Gyan Singh, 65, from Punjab's Firozpur walked on foot, said it is a test of his physical and mental strength, adding they "will keep walking till the last point." "We have been enduring the vagaries of weather for months now. It doesn't deter us. This should give a message loud and clear... we accept nothing but a win," said Rampal Singh, 62, from Haryana's Kaithal. The protesting unions has also announced a foot march to Parliament on February 1, when the annual Budget is presented, to press for their demands including a repeal of the three agriculture laws. Heavy security has been deployed in view of the 'Kisan Gantantra Parade' that will move into Delhi from the Singhu, Tikri and Ghazipur border points. On Sunday, Delhi Police had allowed the tractor rally after the annual Republic Day parade. The protesters were told they can't disrupt the celebrations at Rajpath even as the farmers insisted their parade will be "peaceful". Thousands of farmers, mostly from Punjab, Haryana and western Uttar Pradesh, have been camping at several Delhi border points since November 28, demanding a repeal of three farm laws and a legal guarantee on minimum support price for their crops. Enacted in September last year, the three laws have been projected by the Centre as major reforms in the agriculture sector that will remove middlemen and allow farmers to sell their produce anywhere in the country. However, the protesting farmers have expressed their apprehension that the new laws would pave the way for eliminating the safety cushion of MSP (minimum support price) and do away with the "mandi" (wholesale market) system, leaving them at the mercy of big corporates.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-387
26-01-2021||India||At Ghazipur, the tractors are being revved  ||There is a frisson here, an air of uncharted course. This is Republic Day for India. Like always. Unlike any other. Here there are farmers gathered, scruffy, grey-stubbled, in T-Shirts, in jeans, men, women, sons, daughters, wives, sisters, brothers, singles. This is putting the public in republic. As of now, the tractors are being revved. It is not yet past noon. They, the farmers protesting here, have been told that they can venture out of this encampment only past noon. The farmers gathered here are mostly from Western Uttar Pradesh and Uttarakhand and the Terai, the undulating land that has gentle rolls before climbing up hills. "You have been here and you know what is happening. Till the government cancels these laws we will be here. Already, we are planning for the February 1 march to Parliament", Ram Charan Tripathi, who I have met earlier, tells The Telegraph Online.  The official Republic Day parade that is an annual feature began at 9am. It is according to the set timeline to conclude at 11.47 am. The parade is curtailed because of Covid. There is also no foreign chief guest this time, pandemic reason. In 20-plus years of covering the military for The Telegraph, I have lost count of the number of parades I have attended. Yet, the frisson this time sets it apart. The loudspeakers are blaring Punjabi songs. The hit is Kanwar Grewal the lithe singer with a depth of voice that belies his frail frame. There have been more than 10 rounds of talks between the leaders of the farmers' unions and the government. The government delegation has been headed by Narendra Tomar, the agriculture minister. The farmers' delegations have totalled 40 at last call, too numerous to name. Balbir Singh Rajewal, a sardar, a farmer, an economist, stands with Rakesh Tikait, the astute Jat leader from Western Uttar Pradesh. Rakesh Tikait says the farmers who are here voted for the BJP but are now so aghast with Narendra Modi that they resort to lampooning and ridicule with placards and pictures. "We are here because the government is not listening to us. My son is in Ladakh, facing the Chinese," a Sardar tells me. I am not identifying him, save from reporting that he is here for 58 of the 62 days since the farmers stormed to the gates of Delhi. In Delhi's outskirts, but within the National Capital Region (NCR), people are braced for the traffic barriers put up by the polices of three states (Delhi, Haryana and Uttar Pradesh). On a morning that has afforded 2km of visibility, the Rafale fighter aircraft is booming through in the traditional flypast.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-388
26-01-2021||India||Fresh Covid cases below 10,000 for the first time in over eight months||India reported 9,102 fresh coronavirus cases in a day, the lowest in around eight months, as the infection tally reached 1,06,76,838, according to Union Health Ministry data on Tuesday. During the same period, 117 fatalities were recorded, also the lowest in over eight months, taking the death toll to 1,53,587. India had reported a single-day rise of 8,909 cases on June 3 and 103 deaths on May 16. According to the health ministry, 1,03,45,985 people have recuperated from the disease so far pushing the national COVID-19 recovery rate to 96.90 per cent. The case fatality rate stood at 1.44 per cent. There are 1,77,266 active cases of coronavirus infections in the country which comprises 1.66 per cent of the total cases reported so far. It was for the seventh consecutive day that the active caseload remained below 2 lakh. India's COVID-19 tally had crossed the 20-lakh mark on August 7, 30 lakh on August 23, 40 lakh on September 5 and 50 lakh on September 16. It surpassed the one-crore mark on December 19 last year. According to the Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR), 19,30,62,694 samples have been tested for COVID-19 detection up to January 25 with 7,25,577 of them being tested on Monday. Among the fresh fatalities, 30 were from Maharashtra, 17 from Kerala, 13 from Chhattisgarh, seven each from West Bengal and Uttar Pradesh and five each from Delhi and Punjab. Of the total coronavirus-related deaths reported so far in the country, Maharashtra registered 50,815 fatalities, Tamil Nadu 12,320, Karnataka 12,200, Delhi 10,813, West Bengal 10,122, Uttar Pradesh 8,624 and Andhra Pradesh 7,149. The health ministry stressed that more than 70 per cent of the deaths occurred due to comorbidities. "Our figures are being reconciled with the ICMR," the ministry said on its website, adding that state-wise distribution of figures is subject to further verification and reconciliation.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-388
26-01-2021||India||Chaos at Delhi border as farmers’ group break barricades ||Police fired teargas shells to try and stop thousands of farmers who knocked down police barricades at Singhu border and entered Delhi on foot on Tuesday morning amid huge police presence ahead of a tractor rally permitted after the Republic Day parade at the iconic Rajpath. It was not immediately clear whether these farmers were part of the Samkyukt Kisan Morcha, an umbrella body of 41 unions, leading the protests against the three Central farm laws at several border points of Delhi. A member of the Morcha said those who broke the barricades belonged to the Kisan Mazdoor Sangharsh Committee, one of two farmers’ groups that was unhappy that the Morcha had agreed to go ahead with the tractor rally on the outskirts of the national capital instead of the Outer Ring Road, as had been initially planned. On Monday, the Kisan Mazdoor Sangharsh Committee, along with the Bharatiya Kisan Union-Ekka (Ugrahan), had announced that they would hold their march on Delhi's busy Outer Ring Road on Republic Day. According to officials on Tuesday, security personnel tried to convince the farmers that they had been permitted to hold their tractor parade in Delhi after the Republic Day parade at Rajpath concluded. “But some groups of farmers did not relent and started moving towards the Outer Ring Road breaking police barricades," an official said. NDTV reported that chaos unfolded at the Singhu border, which divides Delhi and Haryana, and Tikri border in the western part of the national capital where thousands were seen marching with flags, many of them on tractors. A video from Akshardham showed policemen firing tear gas shells as the protesters looked for cover. The farmers' tractor rally against the new agricultural laws - Kisaan Parade - was expected to be held after 12 PM. However, huge crowds gathered on the borders at around 8 AM. More than 5,000 protesters near the Singhu border were adamant to march ahead. At Tikri, farmers' leaders asked the protesters to maintain calm after the march began at around 9am. The representatives decided to hold a meeting with police to decide the timing of the rally. "Our rally will be peaceful and we will stick to the routes assigned," a leader said, reported ndtv.com. The protesting farmer unions have also announced a foot march to Parliament on February 1, when the annual Budget is presented, to press for their demands including a repeal of the three new agriculture laws.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-388
26-01-2021||India||Republic Day celebrations in full swing around the country||||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-388
26-01-2021||India||Group of farmers break police barricade, enter Delhi ||Groups of protesting farmers camping at Singhu, Tikri and Ghazipur border points of the national capital broke police barricades on Tuesday morning to force their way into the city, much ahead of the time they were granted permission by Delhi Police for their tractor parade. Tractors bearing flags could be seen, along with men and women dancing on dhols, and locals on both sides of the road showering petals on cavalcades, as security personnel tried to convince farmers to stick to the decided plan of holding the tractor parade after the conclusion of the Republic Day parade at the Rajpath. Farmers also marched on foot in large numbers holding flags of different farmer unions and raising slogans. Some were seen riding motorcycles and horses. People also perched atop their tractors and raised slogans and sang revolutionary songs. Locals were also seen distributing food and water bottles to the protesting farmers who were part of the march. A senior police officer who was at the spot said that a group of farmers entered the national capital after breaking the barricades. "As per the agreement, they were supposed to start their parade at the time specified but they forcefully entered Delhi and are currently peacefully sitting at Mukarba Chowk. They are supposed to head towards Bawana side as per the route but they are adamant that they want to go towards Outer Ring Road. "The situation is peaceful and we are trying to convince them to go towards the designated route at the specified time, he said. On Sunday, Delhi Police had allowed the tractor rally after the annual Republic Day parade. The protesters were told they can't disrupt the celebrations at Rajpath even as the farmers insisted their parade will be "peaceful". "But some groups of farmers did not relent and started moving towards the Outer Ring Road breaking police barricades," an official said. A member of the Sankyukt Kisan Morcha, an umbrella body of 41 unions, leading the protest against the three central farm laws at several border points of Delhi, said those who broke the barricades belonged to the Kisan Mazdoor Sangharsh Committee. He said the Sankyukt Kisan Morcha's tractor parade will start as scheduled after police give farmers way. The Kisan Mazdoor Sangharsh Committee on Monday announced that they would hold their march on Delhi's busy Outer Ring Road on Republic Day. The protesting unions have also announced a foot march to Parliament on February 1, when the annual Budget is being presented, to press for their demands, including a repeal of the three new agriculture laws. Heavy security has been deployed in view of the 'Kisan Gantantra Parade' that will move into Delhi from the Singhu, Tikri and Ghazipur border points. Patrolling has been intensified at power substations in Delhi following a threat from the banned Sikhs for Justice outfit to disrupt the city's supply during the Republic Day celebrations. An official said around 6,000 security personnel have been deployed to maintain vigil. Facial recognition systems have also been set up at vantage points for suspect identification, the official said. The security personnel are keeping a hawk-eyed vigil over Rajpath, where President Ram Nath Kovind and Prime Minister Narendra Modi will be celebrating the occasion along with other dignitaries and thousands of people. Thousands of farmers, mostly from Punjab, Haryana and western Uttar Pradesh, have been camping at several Delhi border points since November 28, demanding a complete repeal of three farm laws and a legal guarantee on minimum support price for their crops.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-388
26-01-2021||India||Odisha doctor hunt outside the state   ||The Odisha government will recruit medical graduates from other states to meet the crisis arising out of acute shortage of doctors in the state. Nearly 3000 posts of doctors are lying vacant in the state, which has hit health services seriously. The government has decided to suitably amend rules to lure doctors from other states. The move has received the nod of the state cabinet. “The Odisha Public Service Commission has been asked to issue job notification,” said health secretary P.K. Mohapatra.As per the earlier provision, only residents of Odisha who are eligible to read, write and speak Odia and those who have passed the Class VII examination in Odia as a language or passed matriculation or equivalent in Odia medium were eligible for recruitment in state-run hospitals. Now the medical graduates from other states can register their names in the Odisha Council of Medical Registration system. They will be given four years’ time to pass the Odia language examination . Naveen on Monday urged Orissa High Court judges, two Union ministers from the state and all ministers, MLAs and MPs of Odisha to adopt government schools under the Mo School initiative, adds PTI.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-388
26-01-2021||India||Indian and Chinese troops clash in Sikkim||Indian and Chinese troops exchanged fisticuffs at the Naku La sector in north Sikkim last week after People’s Liberation Army soldiers tried to transgress the Line of Actual Control, sources in the security establishment said on Monday. Several soldiers from both sides were injured in the incident, termed “minor” by the army, which comes amid an eight-month-old border standoff in eastern Ladakh that began with the Chinese intruding into India-claimed territory. Naku La had witnessed a similar brawl on May 9 last year, four days after a fists-and-stones battle between Indian and Chinese troops at the Pangong Lake had kicked off the eastern Ladakh standoff. Both May scuffles had resulted from attempted Chinese intrusions but the Naku La tensions were quickly doused after talks between the local commanders of the two armies, officials said. Sources in the security establishment leaked the news of the January 20 fracas in Sikkim just a few hours after 16-hour-long military talks to defuse the tensions in eastern Ladakh ended without any breakthrough at 2.30am on Monday. Soon after, India’s army issued a brief statement terming the Sikkim exchange a “minor faceoff”. It did not explain what led to the hand-to-hand fight at an altitude above 15,000 feet, or reveal how many were injured on either side. “We have received several queries regarding a faceoff between Indian Army and PLA troops in the Sikkim sector,” the army statement said. “It is clarified that there was a minor faceoff at Naku La area of north Sikkim on January 20 and the same was resolved by local commanders as per established protocols. Media is requested to refrain from overplaying or exaggerating reports which are factually incorrect.” A security official attached to the Union home ministry said: “The PLA troops tried to cross the border and were challenged by Indian soldiers. A heated argument took place, leading to a scuffle that injured several soldiers of both armies.” He said the initial reports suggested the injuries were minor. “The situation is tense,” he said. “Injuries were reported on both sides. The situation is under control now,” an army official said. After a meeting between the local commanders the official disengagement took place in the shape of a customary banner drill, during which both sides held up banners before marching back to their respective positions. Transgressions and border skirmishes are not uncommon along the 3,488km-long, disputed border between India and China. The site of the January 20 clash is near Doklam, a plateau at the tri-junction of the two countries’ borders with Bhutan, where their troops had been locked in a standoff in 2017. The defence ministry issued a statement late on Monday night on the ninth round of military talks with China, which stretched from 10.30am on Sunday to the early hours of Monday. Like all the Indian statements issued after talks with China over the past few months, it contained no references to any demand for the restoration of status quo ante – a trend military veterans have repeatedly deplored. Fear is growing in the security establishment that the Chinese are working to establish a “revised status quo” that will allow their army to hold on to its newly acquired positions within India-claimed lines. “The two sides agreed that this round of meeting was positive, practical and constructive, which further enhanced mutual trust and understanding. The two sides agreed to push for an early disengagement of the frontline troops,” the defence ministry statement said. “The two sides agreed to continue their effective efforts in ensuring the restraint of the frontline troops, stabilise and control the situation along the LAC in the western sector of the China-India border, and jointly maintain peace and tranquillity.” Indian and Chinese troops are locked in a faceoff at multiple points in eastern Ladakh, such as the Pangong Lake, Hot Springs and the Depsang Plains, with 21 rounds of military and diplomatic talks having yielded little result. The Chinese are estimated to have taken over close to 1,000sqkm of India-claimed territory. Sources said the Chinese army has been increasing troops and strengthening its positions in the friction points, violating a September agreement by both sides not to send more troops to the frontlines. India too has engaged in mirror deployment, establishing habitat facilities for 50,000 additional troops backed by battle tanks, missile systems and frequent air force sorties.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-388
26-01-2021||India||Scientists decry cow dung 'anti-radiation' claim ||A group of Indian scientists has decried a Union government agency’s invocation of experiments by physicists at Gujarat’s Saurashtra University to claim cow dung can shield people from radiation. The experiments purportedly showed that cow-dung cakes partially blocked radiation from radioactive caesium. The Rashtriya Kamadhenu Aayog, a unit under the Union fisheries, animal husbandry and dairying ministry and tasked with cow conservation, has cited these findings to support a claim made last October by its chairman, Vallabhbhai Kathiria, about cow dung being “anti-radiation”. The scientists said on Monday that the experiments represent a “classic example” of a study designed to reach a predetermined conclusion, and that they are “sad to see” physics teachers in a state university willing to indulge in pseudoscience. Some have likened the cow-dung study by the Saurashtra University physicists to “papers” on heaven and hell published by scientists in Pakistan in the 1980s during the reign of Zia-ul Haq. Parallels have been drawn with what Pakistani physicist Pervez Hoodbhoy had documented in Pakistan during the 1980s. One university professor of physics in Pakistan had written a paper on the speed at which heaven was departing from Earth and another scientist had published a paper on the temperature of hell, Hoodbhoy had once recalled to this newspaper. “Both (the Indian instance now and the Pakistani parallel decades ago) illustrate cases of academics betraying their training to please political dispensations,” said Aniket Sule, an astronomer at the Homi Bhabha Cent­re for Science Education, Mumbai. Sule was among the 600-odd scientists from across the country who had last October questioned Kathiriya’s claim, made at a media conference. “Cow dung protects everybody. It is anti-radiation. It prevents radiation. If it comes home, the entire home will be eco-friendly, free of radiation. This has been proven through science,” Kathiriya had said. He had then held up a device that he claimed could be used to reduce radiation from mobile phones. In response to the challenge from the scientists, Kathiriya wrote back asserting that cow dung was “radio-protective”. He attached a single-page document describing how the experiments at Saurashtra University had shown that cow dung cakes can partially block radiation. In the experiments, Saurashtra University physics teachers used a radiation counter to show how hexagonal, spherical and chip-shaped cakes of cow dung blocked about 50 per cent of radiation. The scientists, in a public statement on Monday, underlined flaws in the experiment’s design, highlighting that it lacked “controls” to determine how other substances would impact the radiation. What would have happened if instead of using cow-dung cakes, the experimenters had used camel-dung or donkey-dung cakes, the scientists asked. “Without these comparisons, the data only points to the fact that introducing some solid partition in the path reduces the (radiation) count,” they said. The scientists also underlined that radioactivity is a statistical phenomenon and that experiments measuring radiation counts require multiple readings, not single readings. They added that the experiments had not shown any meaningful difference in radiation counts when the cow-dung cakes’ thickness changed – something that should have occurred if cow dung indeed blocked radiation. “Either they (the experimenters) are themselves ignorant about the flaws in their study or they are willingly peddling such a false narrative for petty favours,” the scientists said in the statement, signed by the Breakthrough Science Society, a non-government network of researchers across the country. “We resent the use of a section of the academic community to peddle pseudoscience.” Soumitro Banerjee, professor of physics at the Indian Institute of Science Education and Research, Calcutta, said the claim on cow dung and radiation could not be ignored because it came not from “fringe groups” but from a central government agency. “This has a detrimental effect on the health of science,” Banerjee said. “Some scientists are likely to divert attention to cow dung research because it is easy to get funding support for that topic.” Sule said that to enhance public understanding of science, the scientific community needed to voice its opposition to misleading claims.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-388
26-01-2021||India||Tractor-Day: Republic Day in its true sense||A day before tractors roll into the capital to celebrate “Republic Day in its true sense”, farmer leaders announced a march on foot to Parliament on February 1, signalling to the government and the protesters massed on Delhi’s borders that the struggle for their rights continues. The farmers, who had marched to the capital to make themselves heard on November 26 — 71 years to the day “We, the People of India” gave to “ourselves” the Constitution that governs us — but found its gates slammed shut, will fittingly enter Delhi on the day the Constitution came into effect and made India a republic — a government where supreme power rests with the citizens. “It will be a big event in Indian democracy. We will celebrate Republic Day in its true sense tomorrow,” farmer leader Darshan Pal said at a news conference of the Samyukta Kisan Morcha, the banner under which nearly 500 farmer unions and collectives are fighting for the repeal of three new farm laws and for a legally guaranteed minimum support price for crops. On the evening before the Kisan Parade, the Morcha was working overtime to ensure it goes smoothly. Two farmer groups — the Bharatiya Kisan Union-Ekta (Ugrahan) and the Kisan Mazdoor Sangharsh Committee — were unhappy with the routes for the tractor rally, finalised by the Morcha in consultation with the police. Both insisted that the Kisan Parade should be conducted on the Outer Ring Road as originally planned. The police have not allowed that, restricting the rally to areas just inside the capital’s borders. The Ugrahan group, which has marshalled more protesters from Punjab than any other group, held out till evening but eventually came around. But the Kisan Mazdoor Sangharsh Committee announced late on Monday evening that it would move towards Outer Ring Road at 8am on Tuesday. The panel, which is not part of the Morcha, has been charting its own course from the time the unions began their struggle in Punjab in June, when the farm ordinances were promulgated. Before the protest moved to Delhi, the committee had defied the decision of the Punjab unions to lift their rail roko in that state. In the afternoon, asked about the committee’s insistence on going its own way, Darshan Pal asked reporters to directly speak to the organisation but added that efforts were on to bring it around. The committee’s defiance has become a cause for concern because Delhi police are unlikely to allow the tractors to proceed towards Outer Ring Road, creating a possible flashpoint that could eclipse the whole movement. As always, the Morcha leadership stressed on Monday that it was the non-violent nature of the movement that was its most effective weapon. Amid indications that came through social media posts that the youth were not happy with the compromise route, veteran farmer leader Balbir Singh Rajewal urged them to remain peaceful and be wary of rumours so that they were not provoked. “The government is spreading rumours and agencies are trying to mislead. Be alert because it is clear that we will win if we remain peaceful. If we turn violent, Modi will win,” Rajewal said. He urged the Narendra Modi government not to treat the protesting farmers as political opponents. Refuelling the tractors has become an issue in Uttar Pradesh, with the state police allegedly instructing petrol pumps not to supply diesel to tractors or sell the fuel in bottles. Given the support the protest has among local residents, diesel tankers are being arranged to move along with the parade, as will at least 100 ambulances. Besides, langars are being set up along the route to provide food and water though all those participating have been urged to move with food supplies for at least 24 hours because it may take that long for them to return to their respective points of origin. Given the enthusiasm for the tractor parade, the Morcha has decided to organise five such parades in Haryana and Rajasthan apart from the three that will enter Delhi from the Singhu, Tikri and Ghazipur borders that have seen the biggest mobilisations. Although the no-objection certificate given to the Morcha for the parade specifies that 5,000 tractors and 5,000 people will be allowed to enter from each of the three borders, Darshan Pal said: “There is no limit.” The police had not spoken of any limit on number during the discussions, suggesting only that trolleys be left out, to which the Morcha has agreed.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-388
26-01-2021||India||Nudge to IIT professors to speak up on EVMs||Former chief election commissioner S.Y. Quraishi on Monday questioned the silence of the Election Commission’s technical experts committee on the complaints and suspicions aired repeatedly about electronic voting machines’ vulnerability to tampering. Speaking at Sabrang news portal’s webinar on “the EVM conundrum”, Quraishi tried to uphold the poll panel’s guarantee that the voting machines cannot be tampered with. However, he was critical of the experts committee that is supposed to advise the commission on technical aspects of the voting machines and the voter-verified paper audit trail (VVPAT) devices. “The five IIT professors in the committee of independent experts, who we have been talking about, behind whom we take shelter that we are technologically illiterate... they should be more proactive, they should be more visible, they should come out and say these machines are fine,” Quraishi said. In 2019, the technical experts committee had three members from three IITs and was headed by professor emeritus D.T. Shahani. The commission has not announced any changes to the committee since then. “Why are they keeping quiet?... Are they scared of anything? The EC values them so highly that any comment from them would give us sleepless nights,” Quraishi said. “Let those five experts come out in the national interest. Just keeping quiet will not help. In fact, people have started doubting the expertise of these experts and also the bona fides of the experts.” The previous speaker, activist and IAS officer Kannan Gopinathan, had reiterated his 2019 claim that the paper trail machines were vulnerable to being used as Trojan horses to rig the voting machines. When he had first made the complaint, the commission had said a “rigorous scrutiny” was being done although no evidence of “transfer of vote from one candidate to another has been found” in the Lok Sabha polls earlier that year. After the Lok Sabha polls, five voting machines and paper trail devices were randomly tallied in every Assembly segment (or parliamentary constituency in Union territories that lack legislative assemblies). The counts on eight paper trail devices did not match those on the corresponding voting machines, an occurrence the commission blamed on “human error”. It said election officials had failed to clear these voting machines after mock polls held ahead of the actual voting. The biggest mismatch was of 34 votes, and none of the mismatches altered the outcome of an election. However, such mismatch figures relate only to the voting machines and paper trail devices sampled during the test –the commission does not carry out any further checks in the Assembly segment after a discrepancy is found. None of the technical expert committee members, nor the commission, responded to emails seeking their comments on Quraishi’s remarks. In January 2019, a man who introduced himself as Syed Shuja at a news conference in London had claimed the 2014 general election was rigged with tampered voting machines but did not furnish any proof. He said he was a former contractual employee of the Electronics Corporations of India Limited, one of the two public sector undertakings that make voting machines. He alleged that former minister Gopinath Munde, National Investigation Agency officer Tanzil Ahmed, journalist Gauri Lankesh and several of Shuja’s own colleagues had been killed to prevent the 2014 rigging from being exposed. The technical experts committee had at the time issued a detailed rebuttal. Quraishi said: “Anybody who points out the possibility of a flaw in our system is a friend and not an enemy…. Perhaps this is a mistake we have been making of late.” He suggested that the top two candidates in any election be given a fixed number of opportunities to get the voting machines and the paper trail devices tallied irrespective of the random sampling that takes place. His other suggestion was more radical. “Let us count 100 per cent of VVPAT (slips) instead of counting the EVM…. VVPAT count takes 20 to 25 minutes; EVM count also takes 20 to 25 minutes. This is almost a return to the ballot paper without returning to the ballot paper,” Quraishi said. He said this measured ruled out the stuffing of ballot papers. He also suggested the introduction of an additional measure – allowing the voter to record or destroy a vote after reading the paper slip. IIT Delhi computer engineering professor Subhashis Banerjee said any audit of the paper trail devices should be linked to the margin of victory in an election. The lower the margin, the more such devices need to be tallied, he said, arguing that the current matching of only five devices per Assembly constituency was unlikely to detect tampering, if any. “It is well known that testing can never be a substitute for verifiability. A machine cannot be tested for all situations, and it cannot be determined by testing that a machine has not been hacked,” he said. Samajwadi Party politician Ghanshyam Tiwari said: “The most complicated systems are the easiest to hack.” He suggested the use of CCTVs that would record the vote but not the voter, and the introduction of systems that even illiterate voters can verify.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-388
26-01-2021||India||Gallantry awards for Galwan soldiers  ||Colonel Bikumalla Santosh Babu, the commanding officer of 16 Bihar Regiment who was among 20 Indian soldiers killed in a “violent face-off” with Chinese troops in the Galwan Valley on June 15 last year, has been posthumously awarded the Mahavir Chakra, the second-highest gallantry award granted in wartime. Five soldiers who fought in Galwan have been awarded the Vir Chakra, the third highest wartime gallantry award. Four of them were killed in the battle — Naib Subedar Nuduram Soren, Havildar K. Palani, Sepoy Gurtej Singh and Naik Deepak Singh. Havildar Tejinder Singh, who survived, is the fifth recipient. Subedar Sanjiv Kumar of the Special Forces has been posthumously awarded with Kirti Chakra, the peacetime equivalent of the Mahavir Chakra, for his supreme sacrifice against terrorists in April.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-389
26-01-2021||India||Filmmaker’s plea in Supreme Court seeks media tribunal||The Supreme Court on Monday sought responses from the Centre and five other organisations on a petition seeking a statutory “media tribunal” to deal with complaints against media outlets relating to the promotion of hate speeches, sectarian reporting, paid news and misinformation. Filmmaker Nilesh Navalakha and social activist Nitin Memane have filed the public interest plea, which comes at a time several news channels stand accused of aggressively promoting the government line on everything, earning themselves the epithet “godi (lapdog) media”. Notices have been issued to the Press Council of India, News Broadcasters Association, News Broadcasters Federation, News Broadcasting Standards Authority and the Press Trust of India by the bench of Chief Justice S.A. Bobde and Justices A.S. Bopanna and V. Ramasubramanian. The petition asks the top court to direct the government to establish “an independent, regulatory tribunal/ judicial body, known as ‘media tribunal’, to hear and expeditiously adjudicate upon complaint petitions against the media businesses filed by the viewers/ citizens”. It also asks the court to set up an “independent high-powered committee headed by a retired chief justice or judge” of the Supreme Court or a high court, and “consisting of distinguished citizens from different fields/ professions and concerned stakeholders”, that will review the “legal framework relating to media-business regulation”. “Today, electronic media has become the most powerful medium with unprecedented influence over the minds of the people. (There’s a) lack of accountability on the electronic media channels, which have the power and impetus to set the country ablaze with their hateful and fissiparous discourse,” the petition says. “Over the last few years, media trials, hate speech, propaganda news, paid news, have become the order of the day, thereby impeding the right to a fair trial of victims and right to fair and proportionate reporting. It is submitted that reckless reportage by the electronic media without accountability can, by no stretch of imagination, be read into the right to freedom of speech and expression enjoyed by the electronic media.” The petition seeks “appropriate guidelines outlining the broad regulatory paradigm within which media houses, i.e., broadcasters and electronic media, can exercise their (freedom of speech) so as to judicially regulate the same”. Some of the questions raised by the petition, filed through advocate Amit Pai: The petition clarifies that its intention “is not to curb the fundamental rights of the media-business, but only to bring about some accountability for misinformation, inflammatory coverage, fake news, breach of privacy, etc, which the media business has indulged in, only with the aim to further their business, and to bring about consequences for acting in a fashion that is contrary to constitutional goals and morality”. “It is submitted the exercise of power by the electronic media without any accountability is severely detrimental to the due process of law, and contrary to the rule of law,” the petition adds. In the petition, Navalakha says he has produced nine films on social issues and received national awards for three: Shala, Fandry and Anumati.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-389
26-01-2021||India||Rahul Gandhi hints at Modi-Palani deal ||Rahul Gandhi on Monday hinted at a deal between Tamil Nadu chief minister E.K. Palaniswami and Prime Minister Narendra Modi that ensured stopping of investigations in corruption cases whereas Opposition leaders were being targeted across the country. Participating in a roadshow in Karur city of Tamil Nadu, Rahul said: “The Prime Minister is using the CBI, ED (Enforcement Directorate) to attack the Opposition everywhere. Why has the investigations in corruption cases stopped in Tamil Nadu? What has the Tamil Nadu chief minister given the Prime Minister in exchange? How is the Prime Minister remote-controlling the Tamil Nadu government?” This charge, of Modi possessing the remote control of the Tamil Nadu government, evoked thunderous applause as the AIADMK, after the demise of former chief minister Jayalalithaa, has been accused of acting like the BJP’s puppet. Amidst lusty cheering, Rahul said: “Modi feels that he controls the people of Tamil Nadu because he controls the government. Modi cannot control you just because your chief minister is corrupt. The people of Tamil Nadu are going to remove the batteries of the remote control and throw it away.” Tamil Nadu will go to polls in a few months along with Assam, Bengal, Kerala and Puducherry. Rahul, who completed his three-day tour of the state on Monday evening, his second in a fortnight, has been trying to make Tamil identity the central theme of his discourse, accusing the RSS-BJP of conspiring to impose one-language, one-culture on the entire country. He repeatedly argued that the government will have to deal with states such as Tamil Nadu, Bengal or Punjab with respect and affection instead of imposing a unified culture on them. At another function in Karur district, Rahul asked the farmers if anybody knew the details of the new farm laws. To his delight, one farmer bitterly complained about contract farming and removal of stock limit by amending the Essential Commodities Act and wondered how they  would bargain with a big player like Adani instead of dealing with the so-called middlemen and commission agents who are from their own community. This farmer also wondered how a law can be framed which prevents farmers from approaching the court in case of a dispute. This is the same language that is being spoken at the farmers’ protest going on outside Delhi’s borders, exploding the false propaganda of the Modi government that only farmers from Punjab and Haryana were angry. This farmer also explained how sugar mills were refusing to pay despite entering into a contract, compelling Rahul to say: “He will make a better agriculture minister than the current one in the Modi government.” Agriculture minister Narendra Tomar, who steamrolled similar objections from the Opposition in Parliament, including the horrendous clause that farmers can’t approach the court for redress of grievances in case of a dispute with the corporate entity, finally agreed to make amends under pressure from protesting farmers. Both the Opposition and the farmers have accused the government of framing the laws without application of mind or with the ill-intent to help in the corporate takeover of agriculture. While other farmers also expressed their anguish — from poor quality of seeds to inadequate marketing facilities and prices — there were complaints about intrusion of corporate players, falling incomes and even unauthorised selling of farming data to multinationals by the government. Rahul described the farm laws as “criminal” — intended to break the backbone of India by weakening the farmers and workers — and argued that the government was trying to impose a failed economic model borrowed from America. The Congress leader also probed the people’s mind on demonetisation, asking women whether they liked banning of currency notes or not. That question triggered angry responses with people narrating how demonetisation destroyed lives and livelihood across the state. This allowed Rahul to repeat his pet theme — that Modi is by design attacking the foundations of India to facilitate control by five-six big industrialists and exhorted everybody to join hands to thwart this sinister plot.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-389
26-01-2021||India||Farmers' protest: NCP chief Sharad Pawar hits out at Maharashtra governor ||The Centre may pass any law undermining the Constitution on the back of its majority, but once the common man and farmers rise, they will not keep quiet until the new farm acts and the ruling party are destroyed, NCP chief Sharad Pawar said on Monday. Addressing a rally organised here to express solidarity with the farmers agitating near Delhi, Pawar also hit out at Maharashtra governor Bhagat Singh Koshyari for heading to Goa at a time when peasants from the state were to submit a memorandum against the new farm laws. Pawar alleged that Koshyari, who is also the Goa governor, had time to meet Bollywood actress Kangana Ranaut after the BMC last year demolished parts of her office here, but has no time for farmers. The former Union agriculture minister accused Prime Minister Narendra Modi of not enquiring about the condition of farmers agitating near Delhi’s borders against the farm laws for two months now in cold weather. Maharashtra revenue minister and state Congress chief Balasaheb Thorat, All India Kisan Sabha general secretary Hannan Mollah and others also addressed the rally held at the Azad Maidan in south Mumbai. “You may pass any law undermining the Constitution, not keeping in with the reputation of Parliament and destroying the parliamentary system on the back of your majority. But remember one thing, once the common man and farmers of the country rise, whether you withdraw the laws or not, they will not keep quiet until they destroy you and the law,” Pawar said. Pawar alleged that the farm laws were passed without detailed discussion in Parliament despite the Opposition parties demanding deliberations on the bills concerned. The bills could have been discussed by a select committee, but it did not happen, he said. “...People (leaders from Opposition) opposed it. But the laws were declared passed without discussion. This is the insult of the Constitution,” he alleged. He said the farmers’ fight is not easy as those who are in power are not affectionate towards the protesters. Pawar hailed the farmers from Punjab for their contribution in the country’s freedom struggle and protecting it during the wars against China and Pakistan post-Independence. “It has been 60 days since the farmers from Punjab, Haryana, western Uttar Pradesh and Rajasthan are protesting near Delhi. Did the country’s PM enquire about (the farmers)? It was mentioned that the farmers are from Punjab. Does Punjab mean Pakistan?” Pawar asked. “We have not seen such a governor in the history of Maharashtra. Lakhs of people have come here (at Azad Maidan). They were to submit a memorandum to the governor. But the governor has gone to Goa. He has time to meet Kangana, but not my farmer,” Pawar alleged. The NCP chief said it was the moral responsibility of the governor to meet the farmers, but Koshyari did not fulfil his duty. But he does not have that courtesy. He should have at least sat in the Raj Bhavan, Pawar charged on Twitter later. However, the Raj Bhavan later clarified that the representatives of the Samyukta Shetkari Morcha, which organised the rally, were informed in advance that the governor would not be able to meet the delegation on Monday as he would be in Goa to address its Assembly. Thorat termed the farmers’ agitation near Delhi as unprecedented. The farm laws are for capitalists, hoarders and profiteers. the laws were passed without discussion, the Maharashtra minister alleged. Thorat claimed there will be no MSP (minimum support price) and market committees (APMCs) once the farm laws are implemented. The Congress leader said the Maharashtra government wants to pass laws which will be in the interest of farmers. No Shiv Sena leader or minister was seen at the rally, but the farmers’ bodies claimed the ruling party had extended its support to the agitation. The Shiv Sena heads the Maha Vikas Aghadi government in which the Congress and the NCP are partners. The new agri laws seek to encourage private trade, contract farming and remove stock limit on foodgrains. The protesting farmers have expressed apprehension that the new laws would leave them at the mercy of big corporates.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-389
