27-01-2021||India||Farmers’ Budget day march to Parliament stands cancelled after R-Day clashes||Farmers’ plan to march to Parliament on February 1 when the Budget would be presented, stood cancelled on Wednesday as cracks began to appear in their ongoing agitation against the agri laws. The decision by farmer unions came a day after massive violence during their tractor parade in the national capital that left nearly 400 police personnel injured. The farmer leaders, however, alleged that there was a conspiracy behind Tuesday’s incidents and demanded a probe. They said their agitation against the farm laws will continue and public meetings and hunger strikes will be held across the country on January 30. “The tractor parade was hit by a government conspiracy. Deep Sidhu is an RSS man. Police let him go after he hoisted a religious flag at Red Fort,” farmer leader Darshan Pal, who has been accused by police of making inflammatory speeches, alleged at a press conference. Sidhu is a former aide of actor and BJP MP Sunny Deol. Deol had distanced himself from Sidhu in December after he supported the farmers' agitation. “We have cancelled our plan for a march to Parliament on budget day on February 1. But our agitation will continue and there will be public meetings and hunger strikes across the country on January 30,” Pal said. Another farmer leader Balbir Singh Rajewal claimed that over two lakh tractors and lakhs of people participated in Tuesday's parade and “99.9 percent of the protesters were peaceful”. Even as the farmer unions continued to allege that “anti-social” elements had perpetrated the violence to “torpedo” their peaceful agitation against the farm laws, Tuesday’s incidents that have been widely condemned started taking a toll with Bharatiya Kisan Union (Bhanu) and All India Kisan Sangharsh Coordination Committee withdrawing from the protests on the Delhi's borders. Swaraj India leader Yogendra Yadav, who has been supporting the farmers’ agitation, said, “We regret the Red Fort incident and accept its moral responsibility. The incident should be probed. There is a conspiracy behind it.” Responding to a question on farmer leaders being named in FIR, Yadav said, “FIR, jail and torture are rewards of movements.” “We have video clippings and we will expose how a conspiracy was hatched to defame our movement,” Shivkumar Kakka said. As many as 37 farmer leaders, including Rakesh Tikait, Yogendra Yadav, Darshan Pal and Gurnam Singh Chaduni, have been named in an FIR in connection with the violence during the tractor parade.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-383
27-01-2021||India||Those responsible for R-Day violence won’t be spared: Delhi Police Commissioner||Delhi Police on Wednesday alleged that farmer leaders made inflammatory speeches and were involved in the violence during the tractor parade by agitating farmers that left 394 of its personnel injured, and warned that no culprit will be spared. Addressing a press conference, Delhi police commissioner S N Srivastava said farmer unions did not follow conditions set for the tractor rally that was supposed to be held from 12 noon to 5 PM and accused them of betrayal. He said not a single life was lost as the Delhi Police showed extreme restraint. As many as 25 FIRs have been registered so far, Srivastava said. “We are using the facial recognition system and taking the help of CCTV and video footage to identify the accused. Strict action will be taken against those identified. No culprit will be spared,” he said He alleged that some farmer leaders like Satnam Singh Pannu and Darshan Pal gave inflammatory speeches. Thereafter protesters broke barricades. “By January 25 evening, it became clear that they were not keeping their words. They brought forward the aggressive and militant elements who occupied the stage and delivered provocative speeches,” he said. He said that 394 police personnel were injured while 30 police vehicles were damaged in the violence on Wednesday. Earlier in the day, police officials said that six  Delhi Transport Corporation (DTC) buses and 70 iron barricades were damaged when over 10,000 protesting farmers on nearly 600 tractors stormed the ITO area. Officials also said that 200 people have been detailed in relation with the incident. According to police, the detained people are being questioned. Police said they are likely to detain and question more people in connection with Tuesday's violence in the national capital. According to the FIR, the farmers smashed the barricades and hit DTC buses stationed at ITO with their tractors and also tried to run over police personnel. The national capital witnessed clashes between protesters and police during the tractor parade by farmers on the Republic Day to press their demand of repealing three new agri laws.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-384
27-01-2021||India||Cinema halls with more audience, swimming pools open for all: MHA||Cinema halls and theatres can operate with more people from February 1, while swimming pools have been allowed to reopen for all, according to a fresh Covid-19 guideline issued by the Ministry of Home Affairs on Wednesday. There shall be no restriction on inter-state and intra-state movement of people and goods including those for cross land-border trade under treaties with neighbouring countries, it said. No separate permission/ approval/ e-permit will be required for such movements, the MHA said. All activities have been permitted outside containment zones, except a few which will be subject to strict adherence of SOPs. Social, religious, sports, entertainment, educational, cultural, religious gatherings have already been permitted up to a maximum of 50 per cent of the hall capacity, with a ceiling of 200 people in closed spaces; and keeping of the size of the ground or space in view, in open spaces. “Now such gatherings will be allowed subject to SOP of the state and UT concerned. Cinema halls and theatres have already been permitted up to 50 per cent of seating capacity. Now they will be permitted to operate at higher seating capacity, for which a revised SOP will be issued by the Ministry of Information and Broadcasting in consultation with MHA,” the guidelines said. Swimming pools have already been permitted for use of sports persons. Now these will be permitted for use by all, for which a revised SOP will be issued by the Ministry of Youth Affairs and Sports in consultation with MHA. Business to Business (B2B) exhibition halls have already been permitted. Now all types of exhibition halls will be permitted, for which a revised SOP will be issued by the Department of Commerce in consultation with MHA. The main focus of the guidelines is to consolidate the substantial gains that have been achieved against the spread of Covid-19 which is visible in the steady decline in the number of active and new cases in the country over the last four months. “It is, therefore, emphasised that to fully overcome the pandemic, there is need to maintain caution and to strictly follow the prescribed containment strategy focussed on surveillance, containment and strict observance of the guidelines and SOPs issued by MHA and Ministry of Health and Family Welfare (MOHFW),” the guidelines said. Containment zones, if required, shall be carefully demarcated by the district authorities at the micro level, taking into consideration guidelines prescribed by the MoHFW in this regard. Within the demarcated containment zones, containment measures, as prescribed by MoHFW shall be scrupulously followed. Local district, police and municipal authorities shall be responsible to ensure that the prescribed containment measures are strictly followed and state and union territory governments shall ensure the accountability of the officers concerned in this regard. The MHA said state and union territory governments shall take all necessary measures to promote COVID-19 appropriate behaviour and ensure wearing of face masks, hand hygiene and social distancing. The National Directives for Covid-19 Management shall continue to be followed throughout the country, so as to enforce Covid-19 appropriate behaviour. For further opening up of international air travel of passengers, the Ministry of Civil Aviation (MOCA) may take a decision in consultation with MHA based on the assessment of the situation. The SOPs, as updated from time to time, have been prescribed for various activities. These include: movement by passenger trains; air travel; metro trains; schools; higher educational institutions; hotels and restaurants; shopping malls, multiplexes and entertainment parks; yoga centres and gymnasiums, etc. These SOPs shall be strictly enforced by the authorities concerned, who shall be responsible for their strict observance, the guidelines said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-384
27-01-2021||India||Deep Sidhu under scanner for joining farmers’ stir ||On the 72nd Republic Day of India, a group of protesters taking part in the tractor parade organised by farmers stormed the Red Fort and put up a religious flag atop it -- and Deep Sidhu was among them. The actor-turned-activist is in the eye of a storm since then, as many farmers’ unions blamed him for inciting protesters to head towards the Red Fort on Tuesday. The unions also accused 36-year-old Sidhu of allegedly trying to defame the farmers’ peaceful agitation against the agri reforms introduced by the central government. Ever since he joined the farmers’ movement against the three agri laws at the Delhi borders, Sidhu has been considered by several farm bodies as an agent of the government. “Deep Sidhu is an agent of the government and he did it at the behest of the Centre to defame the farmers' agitation,” alleged Bharti Kisan Union (Ekta Ugrahan) general secretary Sukhdev Singh Kokrikalan on Wednesday. “He took youth towards the Red Fort by misleading them. We never allowed people like Deep Sidhu at our stage. We knew that he could bring disrepute to the agitation. We never trusted him,” he further said. Bhartiya Kisan Union (Chaduni) leader Gurnam Singh Chaduni also condemned the action of Deep Sidhu, saying there was no plan for the farmers to go to the Red Fort. “Whatever Deep Sidhu has done, we condemn it in the strongest possible words and we feel that he was an agent of the government. He always speaks against the farmer leaders and incites people against them,” said Chaduni in a video message, stressing that farmers did not have any plan to go to the Red Fort. Before associating himself with the farmers' agitation, Sidhu, hailing from Punjab's Muktsar district, had acted in a few Punjabi films. He has also studied law. The model-turned-actor made his debut in Punjabi romantic film Ramta Jogi, which was directed by Guddu Dhanoa in 2015. He has also acted in Punjabi movies Jora Dus Numbaria, Saade Aale and Jora the second chapter. He got into the limelight when he joined a dharna at Shambhu near Haryana border in support of the protesting farmers last year. Sidhu was also a close aide of BJP MP Sunny Deol, who contested from the Gurdaspur seat in Punjab during the 2019 Lok Sabha elections. He remained with Deol during the poll campaigning. Deol had distanced himself from Sidhu in December last year after he joined the farmers’ agitation. Amid a massive outrage over protesters hoisting a religious flag at the Red Fort during the tractor rally on Republic Day, Sidhu had defended their action, saying they did not remove the national flag and had put up the ‘Nishan Sahib’ as a symbolic protest. The ‘Nishan Sahib’ flag, a symbol of Sikh religion, is seen at all gurdwara complexes. In a video posted on Facebook on Tuesday evening, Sidhu had claimed that it was not a planned move and that they should not be given any communal colour or dubbed as fundamentalists or hardliners. “To symbolically register our protest against the new farm legislation, we put up ‘Nishan Sahib’ and a farmer flag and also raised the slogan of Kisan Mazdoor Ekta,” Sidhu had said. He had also stated that the national flag was not removed from the flagpole at the Red Fort and that nobody raised a question over the country’s unity and integrity. Sidhu, who had been associated with the farmers’ agitation for the last many months, said “anger flares up” in a mass movement like this when the genuine rights of people are ignored.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-384
27-01-2021||India||Two farmers’ unions withdraw from farmers’ protest||In a blow to farmers protesting against the three contentious agri laws, two unions withdrew their support from the agitation at the borders of Delhi. The announcement came a day after  violence broke out in the national capital during the tractor parade on Republic Day. Talking to reporters, Bharatiya Kisan Union (Bhanu) president Thakur Bhanu Pratap Singh said he was deeply pained by whatever happened during the tractor parade in the national capital, adding that his union was ending its protest. The union was staging the protest at the Chilla border. VM Singh of All India Kisan Sangharsh Coordination Committee said that it is withdrawing from the ongoing agitation as they cannot carry forward a protest with someone “whose direction is something else”. The tractor parade on Tuesday that was to highlight the demands of the farmer unions to repeal three new agri laws dissolved into anarchy on the streets of the city as tens of thousands of protesters broke through barriers, fought with police, overturned vehicles and hoisted a religious flag on the ramparts of the iconic Red Fort. The Kisan Samyukta Morcha, an umbrella body representing 41 farmers’ unions, had distanced themselves from the “antisocial elements” that caused violence in their otherwise peaceful movement. On Wednesday, it alleged that “antisocial” elements, like actor Deep Sidhu, attempted to "torpedo" their peaceful agitation as per a “conspiracy”, but asserted they would not allow “the government and other forces inimical to the peaceful movement to break this struggle”. In a statement, the morcha said, “The Union government has been severely shaken by this peasant agitation. Therefore, a dirty conspiracy was hatched with Kisan Mazdoor Sangharsh Committee and others against the peaceful struggle of other farmer organisations, who had set up their own separate protest site after 15 days of beginning of this farmers' agitation. They were not part of the organisations which jointly undertook the struggle.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-384
27-01-2021||India||Kisan morcha blames ‘antisocials’ for dirty conspiracy||Farmers' collective Samyukta Kisan Morcha has alleged that "antisocial" elements, like actor Deep Sidhu, attempted to "torpedo" their peaceful agitation as per a “conspiracy”, but asserted they would not allow "the government and other forces inimical to the peaceful movement to break this struggle". The morcha, which represents 41 farmer unions, called an emergency meeting later on Wednesday to decide the future course of action. Earlier in the day, Delhi Police announced they had registered 22 FIRs detailing Tuesday’s the violence and specifying injuries and damage to property. The FIRs claimed that six Delhi Transport Corporation (DTC) buses and 70 iron barricades were damaged when over 10,000 protesting farmers on nearly 600 tractors stormed the area. Union Home Minister Amit Shah also took stock of the security situation and measures taken to ensure peace in the city at a meeting with Union home secretary Ajay Bhalla, and senior officers of the ministry and Delhi Police. Referring to the violence during Tuesday's tractor rally, the farmers’ morcha slammed actor Deep Sidhu and Kisan Mazdoor Sangharsh Committee, alleging that they attempted to torpedo the farmers' agitation.
In a statement, the morcha said, “The Union government has been severely shaken by this peasant agitation. Therefore, a dirty conspiracy was hatched with Kisan Mazdoor Sangharsh Committee and others against the peaceful struggle of other farmer organisations, who had set up their own separate protest site after 15 days of beginning of this farmers' agitation. They were not part of the organisations which jointly undertook the struggle." The Samkyukt Kisan Morcha is leading the protest against the three central farm laws at several border points of Delhi. "When the farmer organisations declared a programme of Kisan Parade on 26 January, antisocial elements like Deep Sidhu and others, along with the said farmer organisation attempted to torpedo the farmers' agitation. "Under this conspiracy, the said Kisan organisation and other persons announced that they would march on Ring Road and unfurl a flag on the Red Fort. As a corollary of conspiracy, the Kisan Mazdoor Sangharsh Committee started marching on the Ring Road, two hours before the scheduled march of the struggling organisations. It was a deep rooted conspiracy to knock down the peaceful and strong farmers' struggle," the statement said. The morcha appealed to farmers to stay at the protest venues and continue their struggle peacefully. "The farmers' organisations resolved to continue this agitation and harshly condemned the government and its administration, the said farmers' organisation and anti-social elements, who tried to damage the peaceful farmers struggle. "We will not allow the government and other forces inimical to the peaceful movement to break this struggle. Yesterday's events exposed and isolated the anti-farmer forces clearly. An emergency meeting of 32 organizations is called today (Wednesday) to chalk out the future programme," he said. Tens of thousands of farmers, most of them on tractors broke barriers to storm the national capital on Tuesday to highlight their demands. But the tractor parade dissolved into unprecedented scenes of anarchy as farmers fought with police, overturned vehicles and  hoisted a religious flag from the ramparts of the Red Fort.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-384
27-01-2021||India||Amit Shah reviews law and order situation in Delhi||A day after farmers' tractor rally turned violent in Delhi, Union Home Minister Amit Shah on Wednesday took stock of the security situation and measures taken to ensure peace in the city, officials said. Union Home Secretary Ajay Bhalla and senior officers of the Ministry of Home Affairs and Delhi Police attended the meeting. "The home minister reviewed the law and order situation in Delhi, which witnessed violence during the farmers' tractor rally on Tuesday," a Home Ministry official said. Shah was also briefed by the officials about the steps taken to ensure peace in the national capital, the official said. There is a possibility of police taking action against farmers leaders, who signed an agreement with the police on the carrying out peaceful tractor rally through designated routes but failed to keep the promise, another official said. The central government has already deployed around 4,500 paramilitary troops to assist the Delhi Police in maintaining law and order. After the violence, the MHA on Tuesday had ordered the temporary suspension of the Internet for 12 hours in parts of Delhi. Rapid Action Force personnel have also been repositioned in the national capital and vigil has been intensified in view of the evolving situation. Tens of thousands of farmers broke barriers to storm the national capital on Tuesday, their tractor parade to highlight their demands dissolving into unprecedented scenes of anarchy as they fought with police, overturned vehicles and delivered a national insult hoisting a religious flag from the ramparts of the Red Fort, a privilege reserved for India's tricolour. From Rajpath to Red Fort, the day unfolded in scenes of contrasts. One that Indians have seen for seven decades and the other that seared itself into collective memory with its imagery of protesters demanding a repeal of the three farm laws storming the Mughal era monument, the centrepiece of India's Independence Day celebrations. Clashes broke out in multiple places, leading to violence in well-known landmarks of Delhi and its suburbs, amid waves of violence that ebbed and flowed through the day. While there were no exact estimates of how many farmers were hurt, Delhi Police officials said 86 of their men were injured through the day. Of these, 41 were injured at the Red Fort. A protester died after his tractor overturned near ITO, one of the major flashpoints of trouble.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-384
27-01-2021||India||'Tandav' makers in trouble as SC denies protection against arrests||The Supreme Court Wednesday declined to grant interim protection from arrest to Ali Abbas Zafar, Director of web series ''Tandav'', and others seeking quashing of FIRs against them for allegedly hurting religious sentiments of Hindus and issued notices Uttar Pradesh, Madhya Pradesh and other states on their pleas. A bench comprising justices Ashok Bhushan, R Subhash Reddy and M R Shah was hearing as many as three separate petitions of Zafar, Amazon Prime India head Aparna Purohit, producer Himanshu Mehra, the show's writer Gaurav Solanki and actor Mohammed Zeeshan Ayyub. Besides seeking quashing of the FIRs, the pleas have sought clubbing of FIRs. The bench has sought responses from states such as UP, MP, Karnataka, Maharashtra, Bihar and Delhi on the pleas. "Tandav", a nine-episode political thriller starring Bollywood A-listers Saif Ali Khan, Dimple Kapadia and Mohd Zeeshan Ayyub, started streaming recently.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-384
27-01-2021||India||Delhi police register 22 FIRs on R-Day violence||Several police personnel were injured and five of their vehicles were damaged in the violence that broke out at ITO during the farmers’ tractor parade in the national capital on Republic Day, according to an FIR registered regarding the incident. The FIR also claimed that six  Delhi Transport Corporation (DTC) buses and 70 iron barricades were damaged when over 10,000 protesting farmers on nearly 600 tractors stormed the area. Officials also said that 200 people have been detailed in relation with the incident. According to police, the detained people are being questioned. Police said they are likely to detain and question more people in connection with Tuesday's violence in the national capital. “The Delhi Police has registered 22 FIRs so far in connection with the violence that broke out during the farmers’ tractor parade in the national capital leaving over 300 policemen injured,” officials said on Wednesday. It further stated the protesters tried to enter Luytens’ Delhi from Tilak Bridge despite not being given permission to hold the tractor parade in the jurisdiction of IP Estate Police station where the first information report (FIR) was registered. According to the FIR, the farmers smashed the barricades and hit DTC buses stationed at ITO with their tractors and also tried to run over police personnel. “Police tried to convince the agitating farmers. However, they were adamant about going to Luytens’ area. They also damaged vehicles and equipment of media persons,” it stated, adding that police used tear gas to disperse the protesters from the spot. A tractor parade on Tuesday that was to highlight the demands of the farmer unions to repeal the three new agriculture laws descended into anarchy as tens of thousands of protesters broke through barriers, fought with police, overturned vehicles and hoisted a religious flag from the ramparts of the iconic Red Fort. While police used teargas shells to disperse the restive crowds in some places, hundreds of farmers were seen chasing them with sticks at the ITO in the heart of the national capital. “Police personnel were present at Ram Charan Aggarwal Chowk, ITO. Around 12 pm from Sarai Kale Khan towards MGM Marg, 500 to 600 tractors carrying around 9,000 to 10,000 protestors entered the ITO,” the police said in the FIR. It claimed that a tractor, going to DDU Marg from Ram Charan Chowk, hit a barricade placed near Andhra Public School while being driven rashly, and overturned. While police personnel and others were trying to rescue the driver from under the tractor, the other protesters on tractors reached there and tried to run over the police, it stated. Some of the protesters took the driver to ITO Chowk. Later, they took him and his tractor along with them and left the area. The deceased was later identified as Navneet Singh, a resident of Rampur district in Uttar Pradesh, the FIR stated. An official said multiple videos and CCTV footage are being scanned to identify farmers involved in the Tuesday violence and strict action will be taken against them. Security has been beefed up in several places across the national capital, especially at the Red Fort and farmer protest sites, with deployment of additional paramilitary forces following the violence.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-384
27-01-2021||India||SC puts controversial Bombay HC verdict on hold||The Bombay High Court, days ago, had ruled that  groping a minor’s breast without “skin to skin contact” cannot be termed as sexual assault under the rotection of Children from Sexual Offences (POCSO) Act, thus acquitting him of the offences. The Supreme Court on Wednesday stayed the order after Attorney General K K Venugopal mentioned the case. A bench of Chief Justice S A Bobde and Justices A S Bopanna and V Ramasubramanian stayed the high court order that had sparked outrage and debate across the nation. The top court also issued notice to Maharashtra government and permitted the AG to file an appeal against the January 19 verdict of the Nagpur bench of the Bombay High Court. On January 19, the high court had said that groping a minor's breast without “skin to skin contact” cannot be termed as sexual assault as defined under the POCSO Act. It held however that since the man groped her without removing her clothes, the offence cannot be termed as sexual assault and, instead, constitutes the offence of outraging a woman's modesty under IPC section 354. The high court had modified the order of a sessions court, which had sentenced a 39-year-old man to three years of imprisonment for sexually assaulting a 12-year-old girl.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-384
27-01-2021||India||Plea in SC seeks inquiry commission to look into R-Day violence||A plea was filed on Wednesday in the Supreme Court seeking setting up of a commission, headed by a retired apex court judge, to inquire the violence during the protesting farmers' tractor rally in the national capital on the Republic Day. The plea has also sought a direction to the concerned authority to lodge First Information Report (FIR) under relevant penal provisions against the individuals or organisations responsible for the violence and causing dishonour of the National Flag on January 26. The tractor parade on Tuesday that was to highlight the demands of farmer unions to repeal three new agri laws dissolved into anarchy on the streets of Delhi as thousands of protesters broke through barriers, fought with the police, overturned vehicles and hoisted a religious flag from the ramparts of the iconic Red Fort. Delhi Police has registered 22 FIRs so far in connection with the violence in which over 300 policemen were injured, officials said on Wednesday. The plea, filed in the apex court by advocate Vishal Tiwari, has said that a three-member inquiry commission under the chairmanship of a former top court judge and comprising of two retired high court judges should be set up for collecting and recording evidence in the matter and submit a report to the court in a time-bound manner. It said that farmers' protest against the three new agri laws is going on for over two months but it took a violent turn during the tractor parade. "Unfortunately, the tractor march took a violent turn leaving injuries and destruction of public property. This incident also affected the daily life of the public. The internet services were interrupted as the government ordered the operators to suspend the same. In the present time, the internet services are very essential to carry out the work in different professions especially in advocacy as the courts and our Supreme Court of India is functioning online," Tiwari has said in his plea. The petition said that clash between the farmers and police on the Republic Day has caught the attention of the entire world. The matter is serious because when the protest was going on peacefully for last two months then suddenly, how it turned into violent movement and led violence on January 26. The question for consideration in national security and public interest arises that who is responsible for creating the disturbance and how and who turned the peaceful farmer protest into violent movement or how and who created the circumstances which let the protest turn violent, it said. The blames are from both sides and the matter is to be inquired by an independent agency i.e by setting up an inquiry commission under the chairmanship of retired Supreme Court Judge, the plea said. It said there may be some conspiracy by some notorious forces or organizations to cause disturbance and damage the peaceful protest and create clash between police and protesting farmers. On January 20, the Centre had withdrawn its application seeking an injunction against the proposed tractor march on January 26 after the apex court had said that issue of tractor rally by farmers protesting against the new farms laws was in executive domain.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-384
27-01-2021||India||Expelled AIADMK leader VK Sasikala released from prison after four years||Expelled AIADMK leader VK Sasikala was released on Wednesday after serving four years imprisonment in a corruption case at a prison here. The formalities for her release were done at the state-run Victoria Hospital, where she is undergoing treatment for COVID-19 infection, which she had contracted a week ago, along with her sister-in-law J Ilavarasi. "Yes, she has been formally released," Parappana Agrahara Jail Superintendent V Sheshamurthy told PTI. According to hospital sources, prison officials sporting PPE kits completed the formalities inside the COVID-19 ward of the hospital. However, she would remain at the Victoria hospital for another three days as mandated under the COVID-19 protocol, though she is now asymptomatic and her symptoms have reduced. "As per protocol, she will be discharged on 10th day (January 30) if she is asymptomatic and free for oxygen support for at least three days," the hospital said in an official bulletin. A large number of supporters of the 66-year-old close aide of former Tamil Nadu Chief Minister late J Jayalalithaa lined up outside the Victoria Hospital, raised slogans in her favour and distributed sweets in celebration. Independent legislator T T V Dhinakaran, Sasikala's nephew and founder of Amma Makkal Munnetra Kazhagam (AMMK) visited the hospital after she was released by jail officials. Sasikala was in prison since February 2017 along with Ilavarasi and late Jayalalithaa's foster son V N Sudhakaran in connection with the Rs 66 crore disproportionate assets case. Sasikala was charged with hatching a criminal conspiracy with Jayalalithaa, with whom she was closely associated, and amassing wealth disproportionate to the known source of her income. The September 27, 2014, order of the Special Court awarding imprisonment and fine of Rs 10 crore each, was upheld by the Supreme Court on February 14, 2017. Sasikala, Ilavarasi and Sudhakaran had held huge properties in their names to the tune of crores of rupees from July 1991 to April 1996, though they did not have such a source of income. Ilavarasi will be released in the first week of February. Sasikala's release from prison comes close to Assembly elections in Tamil Nadu, due in April-May this year.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-385
27-01-2021||India||Farmer unions call meeting to discuss R-Day violence||Samkyukta Kisan Morcha, an umbrella body of protesting unions, has called a meeting later on Wednesday to discuss the violence that broke out during the farmers' tractor parade in the national capital. Before the Morcha meeting, representatives of 32 Punjab unions will also meet at the Singhu border, a major protest site against the three new farm laws. A senior farmer leader said, "The Samkyukta Kisan Morcha will meet around 3 pm on Wednesday and discuss all aspects pertaining to violence that happened during the tractor parade in Delhi". The Samkyukt Kisan Morcha, an umbrella body of 41 farmer unions, is leading the protest against the three central farm laws at several border points of Delhi. After violence broke out during the tractor parade on Tuesday, the Samyukt Kisan Morcha had called off the parade and appealed to participants to immediately return to their respective protest sites. The tractor parade on Tuesday that was to highlight the demands of the farmer unions to repeal three new agri laws dissolved into anarchy on the streets of the city as tens of thousands of protesters broke through barriers, fought with police, overturned vehicles and hoisted a religious flag from the ramparts of the iconic Red Fort. The Delhi Police has registered 22 FIRs so far in connection with the violence in several area that has left over 300 policemen injured. The Kisan Morcha had disassociated itself from those who indulged in violence during the tractor parade, and alleged that some "antisocial elements" infiltrated their otherwise peaceful movement. Farmers, mostly from Punjab, Haryana and western Uttar Pradesh, have been camping at several Delhi border points, including Tikri, Singhu and Ghazipur, since November 28, demanding a complete repeal of three farm laws and a legal guarantee on minimum support price for their crops.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-385
27-01-2021||India||Delhi's minimum temperature rises slightly||Delhi's minimum temperature rose to 5.4 degrees Celsius on Wednesday, though it was still three notches below normal, the India Meteorological Department said. A cold wave had gripped the city on Tuesday with the minimum temperature dropping to 2.1 degrees Celsius, seven notches below normal. An IMD official said cold wave conditions are likely to make a comeback in Delhi as the minimum temperature is predicted to dip by four degrees Celsius over the next two days. "Icy winds barrelling through the plains are likely to bring the mercury down again," he said. In the plains, the IMD declares a cold wave if the minimum temperature dips to 4 degrees Celsius. A severe cold wave is when the minimum is 2 degrees Celsius or less. Delhi had recorded a "cold day" on Sunday with the maximum temperature dropping to 15 degrees Celsius, six notches below normal and the lowest this month.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-385
27-01-2021||India||India logs 12,689 new Covid cases, 137 casualties in a day||India's Covid-19 tally mounted to 1,06,89,527 with 12,689 new cases in a day, while 1,03,59,305 people have recuperated from the infection so far pushing the national recovery rate to 96.91 per cent on Wednesday, according to the Union Health Ministry's data. With 137 more fatalities, the death toll reached 1,53,724, the data updated at 8 am showed. The COVID-19 case fatality rate stands at 1.44 per cent. There are 1,76,498 active cases of coronavirus infection in the country which comprise 1.65 per cent of the total caseload, the data stated. According to the ICMR, a cumulative total of 19,36,13,120 samples have been tested up to January 26 with 5,50,426 samples being tested on Tuesday. India's COVID-19 tally had crossed the 20 lakh-mark on August 7, 30 lakh on August 23 and 40 lakh on September 5. It went past 50 lakh on September 16, 60 lakh on September 28, 70 lakh on October 11 and crossed 80 lakh on October 29 and 90 lakh on November 20 and one crore on December 19. The 137 latest fatalities include 47 from Maharashtra, 19 from Kerala, 14 from Chattisgarh, 11 from Punjab, nine from West Bengal, eight from Uttar Pradesh and seven from Delhi. The total 1,53,724 deaths reported so far in the country include 50,862 from Maharashtra followed by 12,325 from Tamil Nadu, 12,204 from Karnataka, 10,820 from Delhi, 10,131 from West Bengal, 8,632 from Uttar Pradesh, 7,150 from Andhra Pradesh, 5,571 from Punjab and 4,381 from Gujarat. The health ministry stressed that more than 70 per cent of the deaths occurred due to comorbidities. "Our figures are being reconciled with the Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR)," the ministry said on its website, adding that state-wise distribution of figures is subject to further verification and reconciliation.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-385
27-01-2021||India||Farmers protest: tractor parade sparks violence in Delhi||Scenes of chaos at the Red Fort dominated television on Republic Day, eclipsing the long and patient protest by farmers, after a deviation from the agreed route by some participants of the Kisan Parade led to violence that left one farmer dead and many protesters and policemen injured. The Samyukta Kisan Morcha, the banner under which almost 500 farmer unions have been seeking repeal of three new farm laws, condemned the violence and distanced itself from those who had broken through police barricades and reached Red Fort where they hoisted the Nishan Sahib and farmer union flags. The Morcha pointed out that the majority had stuck to the designated routes for the tractor rally and had marched peacefully as promised. At 6pm, it called off the parade and appealed to all participants to return immediately to their respective protest sites amid reports of a continuing face-off between the group at Red Fort and the police that was in turn encouraging other farmers to move towards the Old City. It took time for the word to get out, with the Centre snapping Internet and mobile services at five protest sites. At the time the parade was called off, there were still queues of tractors waiting at the Singhu border for their turn to enter Delhi to join a parade that they had hoped would win the hearts of the country. The farmers had even made tableaux representing different states and showcasing their lives for the parade. But none of this got any notice, as clashes between the protesters who broke away from the schedule and the police hogged the limelight. In the run-up to the parade, Morcha leaders had issued repeated appeals for peace and order, wary that any breach might spiral out of control because patience had been running thin among the farmers, protesting peacefully on the road for 60 days now. The government had come across to them as unfeeling, with the Prime Minister not even uttering a word of sympathy for the around 160 farmers who have died at the protests, many because of the biting cold and several by suicide. Ministers had repeatedly come late to talks with the farmer leaders and have been dismissive of the protesters. Several farmer unions and the police seemed to agree that actor Deep Sidhu and gangster-turned-social worker Lakha Sidhana were responsible for instigating the youth to march towards Red Fort and hoist the Nishan Sahib, the Sikh flag. Some of the farmer unions saw a conspiracy in the whole turn of events and asked how the group could breach Republic Day security and reach Red Fort. Bharatiya Kisan Union (Kadian) leader Harmeet Singh Kadian issued a statement asking whether this could have happened without the involvement of the agencies, and should not the home minister resign for this breach in security. Along with the BKU (Kadian), at least two other unions, the BKU-Ekta (Ugrahan) and the BKU (Dakaunda), have accused Deep Sidhu of trying to damage the movement. Joginder Singh Ugrahan — who heads the largest farmer union in Punjab — accused Sidhu and Lakha Sidhana of inciting youths to take over the movement and give it a religious colour. Sidhu, who was the campaign manager for BJP MP Sunny Deol in the 2019 elections, said in a video statement that to register their symbolic protest, “we hoisted the Nishan Sahib and a union flag”. He added that they did not remove any flag. It had been alleged that the National Flag had been taken down. Pointing out that the Tricolour was flying high above the two flags they had hoisted, he projected it as a reflection of India’s “unity in diversity”. The Morcha had much earlier barred Sidhu, who has been seen at the Singhu border, from using their stage. Deol also had distanced himself from Sidhu after he backed the agitation. Sidhu has received NIA summons in a case against the Khalistani group Sikhs for Justice. Trouble began early in the morning when followers of the Kisan Sangharsh Mazdoor Committee (KSMC), which is part of the talks with the Centre but is not part of the Morcha, breached barricades at the Singhu border and moved towards Delhi before the designated hour. The KSMC had announced on Monday that it would not follow the route the Morcha had agreed on with the police. Once the border was breached, it became difficult for the Morcha leaders to rein in the others and the rally began moving towards Delhi though it had been agreed that the tractors would enter the national capital only after the main Republic Day Parade. The KSMC decision had left the Morcha leaders worried because they were afraid it might lead to violence as patience had been running thin among the farmers. As word broke of the rally beginning at Singhu, the Bharatiya Kisan Union-Ekta (Ugrahan) — which too was not happy with the designated route but had decided to go along with it — began moving at Tikri, and the farmers converged at Ghazipur also followed suit. At all three sites, the police did not seem to use their full force to stop the farmers in what appeared to be a spirit of accommodation. But this spirit was abandoned when some of the farmers sought to deviate from the designated routes and move towards Outer Ring Road. The ITO witnessed particularly aggressive behaviour by a section of farmers. In the melee, one farmer was killed. While the farmers alleged that he died in police firing, another version was that he died when his tractor overturned while trying to ram into a barricade. Hours before they called off the parade, several union leaders issued appeals on social media on behalf of the Morcha to stick to the designated routes and to unequivocally condemn the violence. The Morcha asserted that their peaceful movement against the three farm laws would continue. ITO and Red Fort: The farmers clashed with police at ITO before moving to Red Fort, where some hoisted the Nishan Sahib on a flag pole. While many in the crowd vacated the fort after the police and union leaders issued appeals, some refused to leave till evening. Karnal bypass: A group that deviated from the prescribed route and tried to move towards Outer Ring Road was teargassed and water cannoned at the Muqarba Chowk on the Karnal bypass. Akshardham: The group of farmers moving from Ghazipur tried to push past the barricades and head towards Outer Delhi on the eastern side of the city and were teargasssed. Some pushed past the police cordon and went on to the Outer Ring Road before returning to Uttar Pradesh via the DND flyover. Others moved towards ITO. Nangloi: Nangloi was tense all day as farmers insisted on going towards Peeragarhi to take the Outer Ring Road in the western side of the capital. As news reached about 
the developments at Red Fort, many wanted to proceed there, resulting in a confrontation with the police.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-385
27-01-2021||India||Delhi chaos points to massive intelligence failure||The unprecedented scenes of chaos in Delhi on Republic Day point to a massive intelligence failure and also put a question mark on the strategy adopted by the Union home ministry to prevent the situation from spiralling out of control, many felt. Protesting farmers broke through police barricades and checkposts, clashed with cops and entered the heart of the capital after deviating from the designated routes, prompting the law-enforcers to fire tear smoke canisters and lathicharge those descending on Delhi on tractors. One farmer died near central Delhi’s ITO after his tractor overturned, the police said. Protesters, however, claimed that he was killed in police firing. At many places the police were outnumbered as thousands of farmers fought through barricades and tear gas to enter the Red Fort complex. They were on foot and in tractors. As they headed towards central Delhi, many of them were heard raising slogans: “Delhi is not just for Modi and his ministers but ours too.” Maintaining law and order in Delhi is the primary responsibility of the Union home ministry and Delhi police directly report to Union home minister Amit Shah. The ministry also controls the intelligence agencies. Shah held a security review meeting in the evening where home secretary Ajay Bhalla and Delhi police commissioner S.N. Srivastava were present. During the meeting, which lasted for an hour, the minister was briefed on the clashes. Sources said Shah asked the police to take stringent action against those who violated the route agreement between the force and farm leaders. Additional paramilitary forces have been deployed in Delhi following the protests. A former Delhi police commissioner said the violence during the tractor rally was a “complete intelligence failure” on the part of the central government. “What were intelligence agencies doing over the past few days? It also puts a big question mark on the political leadership,” he said. “Such protests are never a guided tour and it is common knowledge that in such a huge rally, protesters will try and enter Delhi and violate the designated routes to prove their point. But our security agencies completely failed to control it,” he said. He also criticised the government for not resolving the farm protest and allowing it to fester for months as over 150 farmers died at protest sites. “Over the past two months the government did not do anything to defuse the situation despite several rounds of meetings with farmer unions. Over 150 farmers have died but the government turned a blind eye. The violence and chaos that we witnessed today would have never happened had the government consulted farmers before passing the farm laws,” he said. Actress and one-time Aam Aadmi Party candidate from Chandigarh Gul Panag said in a tweet. “It appears that the government has got what it wanted from day one! It was waiting for an opportunity to show the entire protest in poor light, by design or default. Constant attempts at needling/provoking the protesters, undermining, subverting, debasing the protests. Sad.” Crowds swelled at the three borders around 9am on Tuesday. Farmers were seen breaching barriers at the Singhu border near Haryana. At Delhi’s Akshardham, the police were seen firing tear gas shells from an overbridge as protesters looked for cover. At Mubarka Chowk, a group of protesters reportedly hurled stones at cops. A video showed policemen lathicharging protesters. Confrontations between farmers and the police were reported at several points. Farmers at several entry points appeared to have followed the agreed routes but a section of protesters broke through barricades. At ITO, which is on the route to central Delhi, policemen clashed with protesters, lathicharged them and used tear gas. By afternoon, a large group had reached the Red Fort. “We came here to deliver a message to the Modi government. Our job is done. We will go back now,” said a farmer.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-385
27-01-2021||India||Farmers protest: Congress blames ‘insensitive’ Modi govt||Opposition leaders have condemned the violence during the tractor rally by farmers, insisting that protests must be peaceful in a democracy but blaming the Narendra Modi government’s “insensitive” handling of the agitation for the eruption of anger after months of endurance. As images of unruly scenes, including clashes with police, were beamed on television channels, Congress leader Rahul Gandhi tweeted: “Hinsa kisi samasya ka hal nahin hai. Chot kisi ko bhi lage, nuksan hamare desh ka hi hoga. Deshhit ke liye krishi-virodhi kanoon waapas lo (Violence is not the solution to any problem. Whoever gets hurt, our country becomes the loser. Withdraw the anti-farmer laws in national interest.)” The Congress kept posting messages throughout the day in support of the farmers’ movement and attacked the Modi government’s insensitive attitude. Rajasthan chief minister Ashok Gehlot said in Jaipur: “Violence is unfortunate but why was the protest allowed to continue for such a long time in this harsh winter? First, the government did not follow the due process by thrusting the unjust laws on farmers and then they showed insensitivity by not respecting the overwhelming sentiment. Are decisions  not changed in democracy?” Asking if “Jai Jawan, Jai Kisan” was a hollow slogan, Gehlot said: “Should the government behave in this manner with the farmers? Only a government that does not have faith in democracy can handle a people’s movement with such insensitivity. The world is watching what is happening in India. It is, after all, not easy to maintain peace in such a vast movement for such a long time. I congratulate farmers for maintaining peace.” Shiv Sena leader Sanjay Raut said: “What is happening in Delhi is a national shame. The government should have stopped this violence. Nobody supports what is happening in Delhi on Republic Day. But how did such a situation develop? Why didn’t the government scrap these laws? Is any unseen force doing politics?” The RJD hinted at mischief. Party spokesperson Manoj Jha said: “What happened today was wrong. At times, certain things are done mischievously to delegitimise a movement. The farmers are sitting at Delhi’s borders for 60 days and the government has shown only insensitivity and arrogance. We heard the language of autocracy. We can’t demonise the entire movement on the basis of certain incidents today.” Congress communications chief Randeep Surjewala issued a statement expressing “shock” at the “violent and anarchic scenes” in the capital.  “There is no place for such incidents in democracy. The farmers’ unions dissociating themselves from such acts is a step in the right direction. Peaceful protest is the real strength of kisan-mazdoor. The standoff for the last 61 days clearly show people are frustrated with the government. The Prime Minister should introspect whether the strategy to tire out farmers with the pretence of dialogue was right.” NCP chief Sharad Pawar on Tuesday called the violence during the tractor parade an indefensible act, but said one also could not ignore the reasons that led to the chaotic situation in the national capital, PTI adds. The former Union agriculture minister wondered “what was the difficulty” in Prime Minister Modi earlier holding talks with the farmers. Pawar feared that Punjab could head towards restlessness if the Centre used force against the protesters and asked the Modi government to not commit that “sin”. He said the authorities needed to keep in mind that the farmers had been protesting for 60 days. None can defend what happening on Tuesday “but we also cannot ignore why it is happening, Pawar said. “It is my expectation that the Centre will show prudence and give up its extreme position on the issue while holding dialogue with these (farmer) bodies,” the MP said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-385
27-01-2021||India||Protesting farmers allege brutality and provocation by police||The farmers who took part in the tractor rally on Republic Day alleged provocation and brutality by police and made it clear that the peasants didn’t intend to indulge in violence. They alleged that the police had planned badly, allowing some tractors to pass and then stopping others at several points, creating confusion and anger. A group of agitated farmers from Uttarakhand who had moved towards central Delhi, an unsanctioned route, said they had only followed the tractors in front that had demolished barricades and moved on. They said they were clueless about where to go and unintentionally went with the tide but figured out on the way that none of the farmers had planned violence although some younger participants were keen to register their presence in central Delhi. “Whatever violence happened was because of the police lathicharge and attempts to push us back,” Gurmeet Singh, the oldest of the lot, said. Ashish Mittal, general secretary of the All India Kisan Mazdoor Sabha, told The Telegraph after returning to the Ghazipur camp in the evening: “Why were the police determined to ensure that the farmers do not enter Delhi? There was no consultation with the majority of the unions while deciding the route, which largely remained on the outskirts of Delhi. This was a huge disrespect to the farmers who had promised not to disturb the official Republic Day Parade. Does the national capital not belong to farmers? Are corporate people ever stopped from coming to Delhi?” Asked about the abnormally high number of people and tractors seeking to enter Delhi on Republic Day, which could have created law-and-order problems, Mittal said: “Shouldn’t the nation know an abnormally high number of people are distressed by these laws and the tractors have come to Delhi’s borders from remote corners of India? “Those who feel outraged today couldn’t feel the pain of these people who have been protesting for months, sitting on the roads for 60 days? Has the Prime Minister uttered a word on the death of 162 farmers so far?” The farmer leader also contested allegations of violence, saying: “If the farmers had any ulterior motive, why did they return after the rally? Clearing up barricades is violence and firing tear gas canisters and resorting to a lathicharge is not? “We saw the police breaking glasses of cars and buses themselves. They threw barricades on farmers who had fallen. While two farmers have died, several of us are injured. It is unthinkable that a government doesn’t allow farmers to enter Delhi for two months and when they want to register a symbolic protest inside Delhi on Republic Day, police force is unleashed to block them. The media abusing us for violence should introspect about the essence of democracy.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-385
27-01-2021||India||Tractor rally in Bangalore||Thousands of farmers descended on the tech city of Bangalore with their tractors and lorries on Republic Day to express solidarity with their brethren protesting in Delhi against the three new farm laws. Although Bangalore police restricted the number of tractors entering the city, farmers marched in large numbers from the railway station to Freedom Park, a distance of about 3km, for their “Jana Ganarajyotsava Parade” in solidarity with the farmers protesting in Delhi for over two months. Similar protests were held in many districts of Karnataka. The farmers started arriving from distant parts of Karnataka to Bangalore on Monday evening itself. The flow intensified on Tuesday morning as they rode on hundreds of tractors and lorries from across the state to converge in the Karnataka capital. Hundreds of tractors were stopped at police barricades erected at entry points on highways heading to Bangalore. One large group of farmers who arrived from Kolar near the city told reporters outside the railway station that the police allowed only 10 tractors to enter Freedom Park. Similar complaints were heard from farmers who arrived from other parts of the state and had to park their tractors several kilometres away and then hop on to lorries to reach Bangalore railway station from where they marched to the protest venue. The president of the Karnataka Sugarcane Growers Association, Kurbur Shanthakumar, criticised the police for detaining a large number of tractors before they could enter the city. “The police stopped hundreds of tractors from entering the city. We condemn this action that violated our right to organise peaceful protests,” Shanthakumar told reporters. The farmers sang, danced and raised slogans against “anti-farmer” Prime Minister Narendra Modi and the BJP governments in the state and at the Centre. Farmers from several frontline organisations such as the Karnataka Rajya Raitha Sangha (Karnataka state farmers’ organisation), Left trade unions and Dalit outfits participated in the protest. Freedom fighter H.S. Doreswamy, 102, defied his age to address the gathering and expressed solidarity with the farmers protesting in Delhi. “This government has allowed corporates to do whatever they want with the farm sector…. Modi doesn’t have any shame in treating Adani and Ambani as great personalities of this country,” he said. “I express solidarity with our brothers from Punjab and Haryana who have endured the cold winter to protest in Delhi,” he added. Mavalli Shankar, secretary of the Dalit Sangarsh Samithi (Ambedkar Group), described chief minister B.S. Yediyurappa as a “fake farmer leader”. “Yediyurappa always calls himself a farmer leader. Yet, he did his best to stop farmers from protesting today, which makes him a fake farmer leader,” Shankar said. “This protest has helped remove the mask of people like Yediyurappa and show to the people that they are taking away our rights and livelihood,” he added.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-385
27-01-2021||India||Netaji birthplace rejects politics||No politics please. That is what the people of the millennium Cuttack city seem to be telling political parties trying to claim the legacy of Netaji Subhas Chandra Bose. The resentment is mounting following the BJP’s bid to steal the show during a programme at the Victoria Memorial where hostile vibes between Prime Minister Narendra Modi and Bengal chief minister Mamata Banerjee were visible to all. “Why the Prime Minister did not organise the 125th birth anniversary of Netaji here at Cuttack where he was born? I still remember the words of my father who used to tell us about little Subhas Chandra playing in our backyard, his days in the Ravenshaw Collegiate School. It would have been a fitting tribute to the martyr had his birth anniversary been organised here and not in Bengal,” said senior advocate of the Odisha High Court Suryakanta Sanganeria. Most of the people who this correspondent spoke on Sunday, a day after Netaji Jayanti, also wondered why Netaji Subhas Chandra Bose Jayanti is being celebrated as Parakrama Diwas. “Why no such Diwas was being organised for the last 70 years and even during the last six years of Modi government? This is perhaps being done with Bengal elections in mind,” said Biswanth Das (63), president of the Odia Bazar Puja committee and general secretary of Netaji Seva Sangha, which is working hard to popularise the life and books of Netaji. Odia Bazar is where Netaji’s ancestral house is located. A roadside vendor Baidyanath Das said: “Why can’t the day be celebrated as Desh Premi Diwas.... no one can be more patriotic than Netaji. He had sacrificed his life for the country.” However, most of the people felt that Netaji’s anniversary should be celebrated as “Netaji Jayanti”. They feel that politicising such an important occasion is wrong. “People will forget whose name the Parakrama Diwas was held. He is known as Netaji and dear to all. By giving such a name you are only denigrating his contribution,” said Sanjit Kar, a small time businessman. Sayeed Khan, a tuition teacher, said though most of the people Muslims had played a great role in the success of Netaji’s Azad Hind Fauz they are hardly given credit. “More efforts need to be made to spread awareness about Netaji’s life and struggle. I would have been personally happy if Modiji come to Cuttack and visit the birthplace where Netaji had taken birth. Why did he go to Calcutta? It seems people and leaders are more interested in doing politics over Netaji rather than taking steps to immortalise his life and work,” Khan. Interestingly, the Naveen Patnaik government has dissociated itself from the politics being indulged in over the issue. Though on Netaji’s birthday Naveen went to Netaji’s birthplace at Cuttack, he didn’t make any comments on the Parakrama Diwas. There he had said, “Netaji is the son of Cuttack’s soil. He was born and brought up here. The sacred soil of Cuttack inculcated in him the mantra of service, struggle and sacrifice. Hence the state government has decided to celebrate the 125th birth anniversary of Netaji through out the year.” “Sometimes silence sends a strong message,” said a BJD leader.  The parental house, Janakinath Bhavan, where he was born, has been converted into Netaji Birth Place Museum. It has galleries displaying rare photographs of Netaji’s early life, his time with INA, provisional government of Azad Hind, Azad Hind radio.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-385
27-01-2021||India||BMC ropes in transgenders to collect parking fees||The Bhubaneswar Municipal Corporation (BMC) has roped in transgenders to collect parking fees from vehicle owners at major parking lots in the city. The initiative, which began on January 21, is expected to fetch good results while providing gainful employment to the transgender community. In the first phase, they will issue parking tickets to people at nine parking lots in the city under two parking allotments. Gradually the scope of collection will be widened with allotments of more parking lots to the transgenders who have been demanding jobs from the government. The civic body earns around Rs 2 crore from 54 parking lots in the city. Bhubaneswar Municipal Corporation commissioner Prem Chandra Chaudhary said: “The members of transgender community are involved in various works of the BMC. Earlier, we had involved them in revenue collection. They did a good job. Now we have decided to give them the job of collecting parking fees. We had a meeting with the transgender community in this regard earlier.” “We have confidence in the members of the community who work very efficiently. They have already proved their mettle by collecting Rs 2 crore as taxes from major revenue defaulters last year,” BMC deputy commissioner Srimant Mishra told The Telegraph. He added: “We have only taken nominal security deposits from them as our aim is to empower the community and strengthen their livelihood. The parking fee collection job has been entrusted to them on a pilot basis for two months. If the experiment is successful, we will extend it further. In the first phase, around 17 transgenders will benefit from the move and later 36 more will be engaged for the purpose. They will be given uniforms and required equipment so that vehicle owners can identify them.” Earlier, a tender had been invited to allot the parking lots. However, because of the coronavirus pandemic, it failed to get any response. No one turned up to run these parking lots with the auction money of Rs 44 lakh. Later, the transgender community members had approached the civic authority to hand over the parking lots to them but they asked for concessions as they did not have the requisite money to participate in the tender process. Meghna, a member of Swikruti, a transgender help group, said: “When the tender for the parking lots was invited, we did not have the required 40 per cent money to deposit with the BMC. Then we approached the commissioner and he helped us. Now we have decided to deposit the money with the BMC on a weekly basis.” While the parking fees for two-wheelers and three-wheelers is Rs 5 for two hours, it is Rs 20 for four-wheelers. If a two-wheeler is parked for four to five hours, the parking fees will go up to Rs 35 and it will be Rs 50 for three-wheelers and Rs 80 for four-wheelers. The corporation is hopeful that besides the economic empowerment of transgenders, the move will reduce the number of conflicts and violent incidents taking place at parking lots over fees. “People will be hesitant to argue with transgenders. They will listen to their request to pay the money,” said a BMC official.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-386
27-01-2021||India||BJD and BJP fight over paddy buying||The war of words between the ruling Biju Janata Dal (BJD) and the BJP over the contentious issue of paddy procurement intensified on Friday with both sides accusing each other of neglecting the interest of farmers. The state BJP, which organised a farmers’ convention at Sambalpur on Thursday and gheraoed the office of Revenue Divisional Commissioner (RDC) in the town followed by a nightlong dharna by its senior leaders at the town police station, has alleged massive irregularities in paddy procurement by the state government. The party has accused the food supply department of failing to implement the token system for procurement properly and harassing the farmers by not lifting their paddy, which has been lying in the mandis. On the other hand, the BJD had accused the BJP of trying to politicise the issue of procurement deliberately to divert public attention from the nationwide protest by farmers against the controversial farm laws of the NDA government. BJD spokesperson Srimayee Mishra also asserted that every single grain of paddy that farmers want to sell will be procured by the government at the minimum support price. She also claimed that paddy procurement this time has been more than last year. The choice of Sambalpur for farmers’ rally and RDC office gherao by the BJP was obviously aimed at strengthening the party’s base in western Odisha which has been its stronghold. But the protest outside the RDC office worked up political heat with the BJP workers and leaders engaging in a scuffle with the security men deployed at the office. State BJP president Samir Mohanty, Leader of Opposition in the state Assembly Pradipta Nayak, BJP MPs and some other leaders courted arrested. Later, the leaders staged a night-long “dharna” at the town police station demanding the acceptance of their demands. Suresh Pujari, the party MP from the adjoining Bargarh constituency, told The Telegraph, “The Odisha government has failed to lift the paddy. Thousands of quintals of paddy are lying on roads near the market yards (mandis). If the state fails to lift it, it should hand over the procurement exercise to the Centre.” He also criticised state’s policy of limiting the paddy procurement to 19 quintals from one acre of irrigated land and 13 quintals from non-irrigated land. “What will the farmer do with the surplus paddy?” asked Pujari. However, the BJD hit back. “The BJP’s agitation is aimed at diverting the attention from the ongoing agitation of farmers against the controversial farm laws,” said BJD minister Samir Ranjan Dash. He also hit out at the Centre for refusing to lift parboiled rice from state farmers. His comments came in the backdrop of state food supplies and consumer welfare minister, Ranendra Pratap Swain’s letter to Union consumer affairs, food and public distribution minister, Piyush Goyal asking him to direct the FCI to take steps to ensure smooth lifting of rice from the state. “Odisha is primarily a parboiled rice consuming state. Raw rice is consumed only in six districts. Most of the rice mills in the state are parboiled mills. Therefore, asking the state to deliver surplus rice in the form of raw rice in Rabi and to limit procurement of parboiled rice in the Kharif to the extent of 50 per cent of last year FCI delivery will have far reaching adverse consequences for the state,” Swain said in his letter. Addressing a press conference here BJD spokesperson Srimayee Mishra said that paddy procurement in the state in 2018-19 was to the tune of 65.5 lakh metric tonnes and Rs 11,400 crore of MSP was transferred to the farmers of the state that year. In 2019-20, the procurement rose to 70.56 lakh metric tonnes and MSP worth Rs 12,808 crore was credited in the accounts of farmers. “The BJD government stands guarantee that every single bag of paddy of genuine farmers will be procured,” asserted Mishra alleging that the BJP was trying to protect the interest of middlemen (dalals) by resorting to agitation on the issue when the actual procurement of paddy in the state was so high.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-386
