28-01-2021||India||India Today takes Rajdeep off-air for two weeks||Prime-time anchor Rajdeep Sardesai has been yanked off-air for two weeks by his employers India Today after he tweeted that Punjab farm protester Navneet Singh had been “killed allegedly in police firing” during the Republic Day tractor rally and that farmers had told him “the ‘sacrifice’ will not go in vain.”  Sardesai also repeated his statement on-air. The news anchor, though, retracted his statements on Twitter and on-air after the police released a video showing Singh losing control of the tractor and the vehicle overturning near New Delhi’s ITO crossing. A post-mortem confirmed that Navneet Singh had not been shot. On Tuesday afternoon, a group of protesters had refused to allow Singh’s body to be moved. They insisted to journalists that he had been shot though they refused to show the body to the reporters. “While the farm protesters claim that the deceased Navneet Singh was shot at by Delhi police while on a tractor, this video clearly shows that the tractor overturned while trying to break the police barricades. The farm protestors’ allegations don’t stand. Post-mortem awaited,” Sardesai said in a later tweet. The anchor, whose long reporting career has made him a household name in many quarters, had been reporting from what he called “ground zero” on the protests. He also tweeted that the police had exercised “great restraint despite grave provocation by the farm protesters” in dealing with the Republic Day demonstrations. Sardesai, who’s consulting editor at India Today, is said to have denied rumours that he has put in his resignation. It’s not the first time that the veteran journalist has been first with disseminating information that turned out to be wrong. Sardesai, who’s been a familiar face on our screens for over 20 years and is known for strongly supporting fact-based journalism, is just one more victim of today’s highly competitive 24/7 breaking news culture where TV channels, newspapers and online portals are all racing to be first with the scoop of the day to drive up ratings and views. Sardesai, himself, had last August prematurely announced that former president Pranab Mukherjee, who was in Delhi’s Army Hospital, had passed away. After being called out almost immediately, he quickly put out a tweet expressing his apologies: “My deep deep apologies for falling for fake news being circulated on Pranab Mukherjee passing away. I am deeply distraught for falling for this fake news… it was unprofessional of me not to reconfirm it before tweeting. Apologies to all.. and prayers with the family.” BJP party stalwarts have been calling for an FIR to be lodged against the TV celebrity over his Republic Day coverage and demanding that India Today dismiss him. The television anchor’s long-standing screen career has also made him a Twitter star with nine million followers. He believes that keeping up a high-profile Twitter presence is part of his job and he devotes around 30 minutes daily to the site. On Twitter, he’s ahead of his former colleague at NDTV Barkha Dutt who has 7.2 million followers. Both journalists, though, are way behind Prime Minister Narendra Modi who’s the country’s top Twitter star with 55 million followers. Besides Modi, India’s big names on Twitter are either movie stars or cricketers like Sachin Tendulkar and Virat Kohli. Deepika Padukone, is in 10th place with 27 million followers. The race to be first with the news has led to many other stumbles by many channels and newspapers. NDTV, for instance, called the 2015 Bihar elections for the BJP early in the counting and ended up apologising profusely when the RJD led the way, followed by the JD(U).||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-381
28-01-2021||India||Government trying to end protest by blaming us, say farmers||The Samyukta Kisan Morcha, an umbrella body of 41 farmers’ union, alleged on Thursday that  the government was trying to put an end to the farmers’ movement against the contentious agriculture laws by blaming it for the violence during the January 26 tractor rally. It also said that they won’t be intimidated by the notices sent to its leaders by Delhi Police. The Morcha has been protesting against the Centre’s three farm laws at various border points of Delhi. In a statement, it said, “We will not be intimidated by the notices being sent by the Delhi Police and will respond to the same. The BJP government (at the Centre), along with its state governments, is trying its best to put an end to this movement by blaming SKM for the events of 26th January and this is not acceptable. The police are doing their best to evacuate several dharnas.” “Instead of taking action against the real criminals, the police are instead arresting farmers who were protesting peacefully. Police have also seized their vehicles. We condemn the eviction of protesters at Palwal where the police instigated locals and flared up divisive sentiments,” it added. The Delhi Police on Thursday issued lookout notices against farmer leaders named in FIRs in connection with the violence during the farmers’ tractor parade on Republic Day. According to officials, the farmer leaders who have been named in the FIRs will also be asked to surrender their passports. “We condemn the action by Uttar Pradesh police in cutting off basic facilities for the protesting farmers at Ghazipur and its attempts to evict the farmers forcibly today. Leaders like Rakesh Tikait, Tajinder Virk and K K Ragesh resisted this police behaviour peacefully. “The government's efforts to discredit the ongoing farmers' movement are continuing. The nervousness of the government is evident from how it is installing security forces on all borders. The government wants to show this movement as ‘violent’ again and again, but the Samyukta Kisan Morcha has a unanimous approach to ensure that the movement will remain peaceful,” it said. On Thursday, a Sadbhavana Yatra was taken out by farmer union leaders at the Singhu border protest site. “This was against the divisive forces trying to divide the protesting farmers along religious lines and as per states and to reinforce the feeling of unity between the farmers,” the morcha said. The Delhi Police detained 15 more people on Thursday, for their suspected involvement in the violence during the farmers' tractor parade in the national capital on January 26, officials said. Nearly 30 farmers who were camping at DDA Ground in Burari were also moved towards the Singhu border to clear the site, they said. The police also stepped up security at the Red Fort, which was stormed by a large number of protesting farmers who deviated from the designated parade route on Tuesday, and Singhu and Tikri borders, the officials said. Thousands of farmers protesting against the Centre’s new farm laws had clashed with the police during the tractor rally called by farmer unions to highlight their demand for the repeal of the legislations. Many of the protesters reached the Red Fort and entered the monument. Some of them even hoisted religious flags on its domes and the flagstaff at the ramparts. “Around 15 people have been detained for their suspected involvement in the violence on Republic Day and for violating laws,” Additional Delhi Police PRO Anil Mittal said. Nearly 30 farmers who were protesting at DDA Ground in Burari have been moved towards the Singhu border, he said. The ground will be cleared soon, the police said. A senior police officer said security at the Red Fort has been stepped up after Tuesday’s incident. Police personnel have also been deployed in large numbers at the city's Singhu and Tikri borders, the officer said. Earlier in the day, the Delhi Police said its Special Cell will investigate the “conspiracy” and “criminal designs” behind the violence on Republic Day. As of Thursday, the police had filed 25 criminal cases, arrested 19 people and detained 200 in connection with the violence. Nearly 400 police personnel were injured in the clashes with the protesters, according to officials.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-382
28-01-2021||India||UP govt asks farmers to vacate Ghazipur border||The situation at Delhi's Ghazipur border, one of the prominent sites where farmers have been protesting for two months, has turned tense with the Uttar Pradesh government issuing an ultimatum to protesting farmers: vacate UP Gate by Thursday midnight or else be prepared to be removed. The “verbal” communication, routed through the Ghaziabad administration, comes a day after three unions pulled out of the farmers' collective that has been protesting against the three central farm laws over the violence in Delhi on Republic Day. “Ghaziabad District Magistrate Ajay Shankar Pandey has communicated to the protestors camping at the UP Gate at Delhi border to vacate the spot by tonight or the administration will remove them,” a district official told PTI. However, according to a report by ndtv.com, farmers have refused to move, while their leader Rakesh Tikait said he is ready to face bullets. “The Supreme Court has justified the peaceful sit-in,” NDTV quoted Tikait as saying. “There has been no violence on the Ghazipur border. Despite this, the government is adopting a repressive policy. It is the face of the Uttar Pradesh government,” he added. Thousands of protesting farmers had clashed with the police during the tractor rally called by farmer unions to highlight their demand for repeal of the Centre’s three farm laws on Tuesday. Many of the protesters, driving tractors, reached the Red Fort and entered the monument. Some protesters even hoisted religious flags on its domes and the flagstaff at the ramparts, where the national flag is unfurled by the prime minister on Independence Day. The Delhi Police meanwhile said that its Special Cell will investigate the case. It has already registered several FIRs against farmer leaders, including Tikait.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-382
28-01-2021||India||India to make available many more Covid vaccines, says PM||India will soon make available many more COVID-19 vaccines to other countries after two Made-In-India jabs have already been introduced to the world, Prime Minister Narendra Modi said on Thursday while emphasising the country's global responsibility in fighting the pandemic. In a special address at the World Economic Forum's online Davos Agenda Summit, Modi also said he wants to assure the global business community that situation will now change rapidly on the economic front also and invited businesses from all over to participate in the country's growth journey. Modi said that some had said in February-March 2020 that India would be the worst affected country by COVID-19 and would face a "tsunami of corona infections". "Some had talked about 70-80 crore people expected to get infected in India, while some talked about over 20 lakh possible deaths but India did not let the disappointment get better of it," he said. Modi said, "We transformed fight against coronavirus into a people's movement and today India is among the most successful countries in saving lives." "We focussed on developing COVID-specific health infrastructure, we trained our human resources to fight against this pandemic and we made full use of tech for testing and tracking," he said. Modi said India has started the world's largest coronavirus vaccination programme and its speed can be imagined from the fact that over 23 lakh health workers have been vaccinated in just 12 days. He said India has ensured that it follows its global responsibility by sending essential medicines to over 150 countries while COVID-19 vaccines are also being sent to other countries. "While two India-made vaccines have already been introduced to the world, many more vaccines will be made available from India," he said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-382
28-01-2021||India||Munawar Faruqui denied bail as 'investigation is in progress' ||Munawar Faruqui, the stand-up comedian who has been jailed  in a case against him for allegedly passing indecent remarks against Hindu deities, was denied bail by the Madhya Pradesh High Court on Thursday. It observed that it was the constitutional duty of every citizen and the states to promote harmony among people irrespective of the diversities. Justice Rohit Arya of the Indore bench of the high court also turned down the bail application of Nalin Yadav, another accused in the case. The single-bench had on Monday reserved the order on their bail pleas. Police had arrested Faruqi and four others on January 1 following a complaint by a BJP MLA’s son that objectionable remarks were made by him and others about Hindu deities during a comedy show at a cafe in Indore. One more person was arrested later. Faruqui and Yadav are currently lodged in Indore Central Jail. A magistrate court and a sessions court had earlier rejected their bail pleas. In its order passed on Thursday, the court, while dismissing the bail pleas, said it refrains from commenting upon the contentions of the parties touching on merits, but based on the material seized, the statement of the witnesses and considering that the investigation is in progress, no case is made out for grant of bail. “The observations, if any, made in the order on facts are only for the purpose of deciding these bail applications and shall have no bearing on pending trial,” the order said. While dismissing the bail plea, the judge ruled, "This court has carefully perused the case diary. The statements of witnesses recorded under section 161 CrPC, particularly the statements of the complainant Eklavya Singh Gaud and witness Kunal." “Emphasis laid on some portions of the statements by the learned public prosecutor have already been reproduced in the form of his contention,” it said. “The evidence/material collected so far suggests that in an organised public show under the garb of standup comedy at a public place on commercial lines, prima facie, scurrilous, disparaging utterances, outraging religious feelings of a class of citizens of India with deliberate intendment, were made by the applicant,” it said. The ruling also pointed out that the counsel for the applicant tried to submit that the applicant, Faruqui, came on an invitation from the organisers of the comedy show and though present on the spot at the show, did not utter anything as alleged. “In the light of the statements of the complainant and the witnesses referred above, the seized articles, viz, video footage of the show and the seizure memos detailed above, at this stage it is difficult to countenance to the submissions of the learned counsel for the applicant as complacency of the applicant cannot be ruled out, besides vulnerability of his acts in public domain. It is not a case of no evidence. More so, the investigation is in progress,” it said. “The possibility of collection of more incriminating material and complacency of other persons cannot also be ruled out. Further, it has come on record that a similar nature of offence has been registered against the applicant at Police Station Georgetown, Prayagraj, state of Uttar Pradesh,” the order further said. “That apart, there is also specific assertion by the counsel for the complainant that the applicant, along with other co-accused persons, allegedly making outraging filthy jokes in social media deliberately against Hindu Gods, Lord Shriram and Goddess Seeta, hurting religious sentiments of Hindus for the last 18 months, despite protest on various social media platforms. There is nothing on record to the contrary,” it said. “Before parting with the case, it is considered apposite to observe that our country is a beautiful country and sets an example of coexistence amid diversities, be it religion, language, culture, geographical locations etc, to the world at large,” the order said. “Mutual respect, faith and trust amongst all citizens of India are basic tenets of coexistence, in a welfare society governed by the principles of rule of law. “It is the constitutional duty of every citizen of the country and also of the states to promote harmony and the spirit of common brotherhood amongst all the people of India irrespective of religious, linguistic, regional or sectional diversities and to value and preserve the rich heritage of our composite culture (Article 15A (e) and (f) of the Constitution of India,” it said. “States must endeavour that ecosystem and sustenance of coexistence in our welfare society is not polluted by negative forces and must strive for achievement of goals as enshrined under Article 51A(e) and (f) of the Constitution of India, in particular as these provisions are part of our vibrant Constitution and not dead letters,” the order said. According to the police, the comedy show was held at a cafe in 56 Dukan area of Indore on January 1. Eklavya Singh Gaud (36), son of local BJP MLA Malini Laxman Singh Gaud, had filed a complaint against Faruqui and others. Gaud said that he and his associates had gone to watch the show and when they heard the “indecent” comments, they forced the organisers to stop the programme. The complaint said that indecent remarks were passed against Hindu gods and goddesses and Union Home Minister Amit Shah during the show. Faruqui and four others were later arrested by the police. All of them were booked under IPC sections 295-A (outraging religious feelings), 269 (unlawful or negligent act likely to spread the infection of any disease dangerous to life) and other relevant provisions. One more person was arrested in this connection later.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-382
28-01-2021||India||Deep Sidhu floats conspiracy theory after snub||Actor-turned-activist Deep Sidhu, who has been accused by farm bodies of trying to defame their agitation and termed a "traitor", has hit out at farm leaders for allegedly spreading false propaganda and hatred against him. The 36-year-old Sidhu, who is in the eye of a storm for being among the protesters who put up a religious flag atop the Red Fort on Republic Day, claimed that youth did not agree to follow the route which was decided by farmer leaders and the Delhi Police. He claimed people on their own marched towards the Red Fort from all the Delhi borders on January 26 and that not many people took the route as decided by farmer leaders. Slamming the farm leadership for accusing him of being a BJP and RSS man , he said, Will RSS or BJP's man put up the 'Nishan Sahib' and a farmer flag at Red Fort? At least think over it". Sidhu was present at the Red Fort when a religious flag and a farmer flag were put at the flagpole at the historic monument, triggering massive outrage. He sought to dismiss the claims of several farmer leaders who accused him of inciting protesters to head towards the Red Fort during the farmers' tractor parade January 26. "I am seeing that false propaganda and hatred is being spread against me," Sidhu charged in the latest video uploaded on his Facebook post. Sharing details about what happened on the night of January 25, Sidhu said youth and many people had told farmer leaders that they (farm leaders) had invited them to hold a protest inside Delhi on January 26 and that they had now changed their stand at the last moment. Sidhu said he reached the Red Fort after its gate was broken. Thousands of people had reached there, but there was "no farmer leader" present there, said Sidhu while claiming that nobody indulged in violence or damaged any public property. They put up the 'Nishan Sahib' and a farmer flag at the flagpole to register their protest, said Sidhu adding that many people were carrying 'Nishan Sahib' flags, farmer flags and the tricolour. "If you say by doing so I have turned traitor then those who were present there were traitors too," said Sidhu. "If you impose all these things on one person and give him a certificate of traitor then I think you should be ashamed of yourself," said Sidhu. "Had our farmer leadership and each person taken a stand and said that look, the scenario would have been different. It would have sent a message that these farmers can do anything to achieve there goal. "But I was given a traitor certificate by our own men," he rued. Farmer leaders on Wednesday had called Sidhu as a traitor and had given a call for his boycott in the state. They had also dubbed him as an agent of the government. Sidhu said lakhs of people could not come on the call of only one person, while rubbishing the accusation of farmer leaders that he had incited people to head towards the Red Fort. Stating that he did not bring any disrepute to the farmers' agitation, Sidhu further accused the farmer leaders of being "arrogant" and said that they wanted whatever decisions they take should be accepted by all. "You are so jealous and so arrogant that you do not listen to anyone. Whatever decision is taken must be accepted by all, If I reveal the deep secrets, then there will be no way to flee (for farm leaders)," he said. He also alleged that the government would send people after him to hurt him. On January 26, Sidhu, hailing from Punjab's Muktsar district, had sought to defend the action of protesters at the Red Fort, saying they did not remove the national flag and had put up the 'Nishan Sahib' as a symbolic protest. Sidhu was also a close aide of BJP MP Sunny Deol, who contested from the Gurdaspur seat in Punjab during the 2019 Lok Sabha elections. He remained with Deol during the poll campaigning. Deol had distanced himself from Sidhu in December last year after he joined the farmers' agitation.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-382
28-01-2021||India||16 Opposition parties to skip President’s parliamentary address on Friday ||As many as 16 opposition parties have decided not to attend the President’s address to the joint sitting of both the Houses of Parliament in solidarity with the farmers protesting the new farm laws, senior Congress leader Ghulam Nabi Azad said on Thursday. The 16 Opposition parties also demand a probe into the Centre’s role in violence on Republic Day in Delhi, said the leader of the Opposition in Rajya Sabha while speaking to the media with Congress’ chief whip in Lok Sabha, K Suresh, by his side. The Congress also released a statement on its Twitter handle, announcing the decision. The other parties who have decided to boycott the address include the SP, NCP, Shiv Sena and the CPI(M), among others. President Ram Nath Kovind would address the joint sitting of the two Houses of Parliament on January 29. The Congress had also accused the Modi government of being part of a concerted conspiracy to malign the farmers' agitation by allowing some miscreants to enter the Red Fort complex and hoist a religious flag, in their bid to ensure that the farmers bury their demand for the repeal of the three new agri laws. It has demanded the immediate dismissal of Union home minister Amit Shah, holding him “directly responsible” for the “anarchy” in the national capital on Republic Day and describing the Red Fort fiasco as a government-sponsored conspiracy to defame the peaceful farmers’ movement.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-382
28-01-2021||India||India capable of meeting challenges on all fronts, says Modi||India showed last year that it is capable of taking all measures to overcome challenges, be it the Covid-19 pandemic or at its borders, Prime Minister Narendra Modi said on Thursday. Addressing a rally of the National Cadet Corps (NCC) in New Delhi, Modi said India has shown its capabilities on all fronts as he referred to production of Made in India vaccines against the virus. “Whether it is developing protective shields of the vaccine or destroying with modern missiles intentions of those challenging India, the country is capable on all fronts,” he said. India has been engaged in a border standoff with China for months now, along the Line of Actual Control (LAC). If India is ‘aatmanirbhar’ in the field of vaccines, it is also trying with equal vigour to modernise its armed forces, Modi said. The prime minister asserted that all steps are being taken to ensure that every wing of India’s armed forces is the best, adding that the country now has excellent “war machines”. Referring to the mid-air refuelling of Rafale fighter aircraft while they were on way to India, Modi said it was done in UAE and Saudi Arabia and Greece also helped. This highlights our growing ties with Gulf countries, he said. Speaking of his government’s efforts to boost domestic defence manufacturing, he said, “India will soon be known as a big producer of defence equipment instead of a big market as it is today.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-382
28-01-2021||India||Jaishankar offers remedies to mend India-China ties||External Affairs Minister S Jaishankar on Thursday outlined eight broad principles for repairing ties between India and China that included strict adherence to all agreements on the management of the Line of Actual Control, mutual respect and sensitivity, and recognising each other's aspirations as rising Asian powers. In an address at an online conference on India-China ties, Jaishankar said the events in eastern Ladakh last year have profoundly disturbed the relationship and asserted that any attempt to unilaterally change the status quo along the LAC is "completely unacceptable". The external affairs minister said any expectation that the situation at the border "can be brushed aside and life can carry on undisturbed" is simply not realistic. Jaishankar said the India-China relationship is truly at the crossroads today and choices that are made will have profound repercussions not just for the two nations but for the entire world. He said the Chinese actions in eastern Ladakh not only signalled a disregard for commitments about minimising troops level but also showed a willingness to breach peace and tranquillity. "Significantly, to date, we have yet to receive a credible explanation for the change in China's stance and massing of troops in border areas," he said at the All India Conference on China Studies. Elaborating on eight points for moving forward in bilateral ties, the external affairs minister said agreements already reached on management of the LAC must be adhered to in their entirety and in letter and spirit. "Whether handling of the border areas is concerned, the Line of Actual Control must be strictly observed and respected. Any attempt to unilaterally change the status quo is completely unacceptable," he said. While both nations are committed to a multi-polar world, Jaishankar said, there should be a recognition that a multi-polar Asia is one of its essential consequences. "Obviously each state will have its interests, concerns and priorities, but sensitivity to them cannot be one-sided. At the end of the day relationships between major states are reciprocal in nature," he said. Jaishankar said as rising powers, each nation will have its own set of aspirations and their pursuit to it cannot be ignored. He said peace and tranquillity in border areas is the basis for the development of ties with China in other domains and if it is disturbed, "so inevitably is rest of the relationship". The external affairs minister said far from mitigating already existing differences, events of 2020 have actually put the relationship under "exceptional stress" Any expectation that the situation at border can be brushed aside and life can carry on undisturbed is simply not realistic, he said. He said if ties are to progress, policies must take into account the learnings of the last three decades.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-382
28-01-2021||India||Delhi police slaps notice on 20 farm leaders for R-Day violence||The Delhi Police have issued notices to around 20 farmer leaders, including Yogendra Yadav and Balbir Singh Rajewal, over the violence during the farmers' tractor rally, asking why legal action should not be taken against them, officials said on Thursday. The police have asked them to submit their responses within three days, an official said, adding that the notices have been issued to these farmer leaders as they did not comply with the conditions set for the tractor parade on Tuesday. The action comes after Delhi Police Commissioner S N Shrivastava on Wednesday alleged that the farmer leaders were involved in the January 26 violence and warned that no culprit would be spared. "We have issued notices to around 20 farmer leaders, including Yogendra Yadav. They all have been asked to send their replies within three days," the official said. On Wednesday, the police had issued a notice to another farmer leader Darshan Pal, noting that the vandalisation at the Red Fort on Republic Day was "the most deplorable and anti-national act". Meanwhile, the Delhi Police will also issue lookout circular against farmer leaders who have been named in the FIRs registered after the violence on Republic Day. The officials said that farmer leaders named in the FIRs will also be asked to surrender their passports. The decisions have been taken following a series of meetings chaired by Union Home Minister Amit Shah since Tuesday when the large scale violence took place in the national capital during the farmers' tractor rally, a home ministry official said. The tractor parade on Tuesday that was to highlight the demands of the farmer unions to repeal the three new agri laws turned violent as protesters deviated from routes, attacked police, overturned vehicles and hoisted a religious flag on the ramparts of the iconic Red Fort. The Delhi Police on Wednesday said that 25 criminal cases were registered in connection with the violence in which 394 personnel were injured and 30 police vehicles damaged.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-382
28-01-2021||India||AAP to contest elections in six states, says Kejriwal||Delhi Chief Minister and AAP national convenor Arvind Kejriwal on Thursday said the party will contest elections in six states -- Uttar Pradesh, Uttarakhand, Goa, Punjab, Himachal Pradesh and Gujarat. He made the announcement at the ninth National Council meeting of the Aam Aadmi Party. "Other parties have no vision and that is why they are talking about the past. AAP is the only party talking about the future and has the vision of 21st and 22nd century," Kejriwal said. "In next two years, AAP will be contesting elections in six states - UP, Uttarakhand, Goa, Punjab, Himachal Pradesh and Gujarat," the AAP national convenor said. Kejriwal urged AAP members to strengthen the party at the grassroots level. "I urge party members to strengthen the AAP grassroots-level hold of the party across the country. The organisation has to be strengthened on a very large scale. The country is important for us and AAP is the vehicle and we need to work towards the development of the party," he added.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-382
28-01-2021||India||Shah to visit hospitals to enquire about injured cops in R-Day violence||Union Home Minister Amit Shah on Thursday will visit two hospitals to enquire about the health of policemen injured in the violence that broke out during the farmers' tractor parade in the national capital on Republic Day, officials said. Nearly 400 policemen were injured during the tractor parade of the farmers who have been protesting against three central farm laws at Delhi's borders since November. The home minister will visit two hospitals -- Shushrut Trauma Centre and Teerath Ram Hospital -- to enquire about the health of the injured police personnel, an official from the Home Ministry said. Both the hospitals are located in Civil Lines. The Delhi Police on Wednesday had alleged that farmer leaders made inflammatory speeches and were involved in the violence during the tractor parade by agitating farmers that left 394 of its personnel injured, as it warned that no culprit will be spared. Addressing a press conference here, Delhi Police Commissioner S N Srivastava said farmer unions did not follow conditions set for the parade that was supposed to be held from 12 pm to 5 pm with 5,000 tractors and accused them of betrayal. Tens of thousands of farmers broke barriers to storm the national capital on Tuesday, their tractor parade to highlight their demands dissolving into unprecedented scenes of anarchy as they fought with police, overturned vehicles and delivered a national insult hoisting a religious flag from the ramparts of the Red Fort, a privilege reserved for India's tricolour. From Rajpath to Red Fort, the day unfolded in scenes of contrasts. One that Indians have seen for seven decades and the other that seared itself into collective memory with its imagery of protesters demanding a repeal of the three farm laws storming the Mughal era monument, the centrepiece of India's Independence Day celebrations. Clashes broke out in multiple places, leading to violence in well-known landmarks of Delhi and its suburbs, amid waves of violence that ebbed and flowed through the day. A protester died after his tractor overturned near ITO, one of the major flashpoints of trouble.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-383
28-01-2021||India||India records 11,666 fresh Covid cases, 123 casualties in a day||India's Covid-19 tally of cases crossed 1.07 crore with 11,666 new coronavirus infections being reported in a day, while the national recovery rate climbed to 96.94 per cent, according to the Union Health Ministry data updated on Thursday. The total infections have mounted to 1,07,01,193. The death toll increased to 1,53,847 with 123 daily new fatalities, the data updated at 8 am showed. The number of people who have recuperated from the disease surged to 1,03,73,606 pushing the national COVID-19 recovery rate to 96.94 per cent. The COVID-19 case fatality rate stands at 1.44 per cent. The COVID-19 active cases remained below 2 lakh for the ninth consecutive day. There are 1,73,740 active coronavirus infections in the country which comprises 1.62 per cent of the total caseload, the data stated. India's COVID-19 tally had crossed the 20-lakh mark on August 7, 30 lakh on August 23, 40 lakh on September 5 and 50 lakh on September 16. It went past 60 lakh on September 28, 70 lakh on October 11, crossed 80 lakh on October 29, 90 lakh on November 20 and surpassed the one-crore mark on December 19. According to the ICMR, 19,43,38,773 samples have been tested up to January 27 with 7,25,653 samples being tested on Wednesday. The 123 new fatalities include 32 from Maharashtra, 20 from Kerala, 10 from Punjab and 9 from Delhi. A total of 1,53,847 deaths have been reported so far in the country including 50,894 from Maharashtra followed by 12,333 from Tamil Nadu, 12,207 from Karnataka, 10,829 from Delhi, 10,139 from West Bengal, 8,636 from Uttar Pradesh and, 7,152 from Andhra Pradesh. The health ministry stressed that more than 70 per cent of the deaths occurred due to comorbidities. "Our figures are being reconciled with the Indian Council of Medical Research," the ministry said on its website, adding that state-wise distribution of figures is subject to further verification and reconciliation.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-383
28-01-2021||India||Cold wave grips Delhi as mercury plummets below 3 degrees Celsius||A cold wave gripped the national capital on Thursday as the minimum temperature dropped to 3.8 degrees Celsius due to cold, dry westerly winds barreling through the plains, the India Meteorological Department said. In the plains, the IMD declares a cold wave if the minimum temperature dips to 4 degrees Celsius. A severe cold wave is when the minimum is 2 degrees Celsius or less. A cold wave had swept the city on Tuesday, too, with the minimum temperature dropping to 2.1 degrees Celsius, seven notches below normal. An IMD official said cold wave conditions are likely on Friday as well. The minimum temperature is predicted to settle around four degrees Celsius. Delhi had recorded a cold day on Sunday with the maximum temperature dropping to 15 degrees Celsius, six notches below normal and the lowest this month. On New Year's Day, the city had recorded a minimum of 1.1 degrees Celsius, the lowest for the month in 15 years. Meanwhile, a low-intensity earthquake of magnitude 2.8 hit Delhi on Thursday morning, the National Centre for Seismology said. The epicentre of the earthquake was West Delhi and it occurred at a depth of 15 kilometres at 9.17 am.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-383
28-01-2021||India||Samyukta Kisan Morcha takes moral responsibility for R-Day chaos ||The Samyukta Kisan Morcha on Wednesday took moral responsibility for the chaos during the Republic Day tractor rally and said January 30 — the anniversary of Mahatma Gandhi’s martyrdom — would be observed as a day of penance with a daylong fast. The Morcha, under whose banner almost 500 farmer organisations have gathered, called off its planned march to Parliament on February 1 but said the agitation for repeal of the three farm laws and the enactment of a legal guarantee for a minimum support price would continue, however long it took. “The call for the tractor rally was given by us, so we have taken moral responsibility,” Shiv Kumar Sharma Kakkaji of the Rashtriya Kisan Mazdoor Mahasangh said at a late evening news conference of the Morcha. “We erred in not singling out those who had infiltrated our movement, and we are taking ownership of our mistake.’’ While accepting moral responsibility and offering regret, the Morcha leaders accused the Modi-Shah duopoly of orchestrating the violence through their agents to torpedo a movement that had gone national. On Republic Day, a tractor rally was held in Bangalore; protesting farmers hoisted the Tricolour at Azad Maidan in Mumbai; and Hyderabad saw a huge rally against the farm laws. The leaders acknowledged that the scenes of violence in the national capital had eroded support for the movement, but veteran farmer union leader Balbir Singh Rajewal said the Kisan Parade was historic and that 99.9 per cent of those who participated in it had remained peaceful. “Still, it became a victim of a government conspiracy to break the movement after several earlier attempts to discredit it and weaken it had failed,” Rajewal said, alleging the police themselves had directed the farmers towards central Delhi. The farmer leaders held actor Deep Sidhu, whom they described as an agent of the Modi-Shah duopoly, and the Kisan Mazdoor Sangharsh Committee (KMSC), a group that refused to stick to the designated parade route, responsible for the violence. About Deep Sidhu, who did a Facebook Live from Red Fort as the Nishan Sahib was hoisted, Rajewal said: “He was planted by Narendra Modi and Amit Shah. There is enough evidence of his association.” Sidhu, who has from the start been persona non grata for the Morcha, was BJP MP Sunny Deol’s campaign manager in the 2019 polls. Deol has since distanced himself from Sidhu. The Morcha leaders asked why the police did not act when the KMSC publicly announced on Monday that it would not abide by the agreed parade route. The KMSC was neither among the 32 Punjab unions agitating at the Singhu and Tikri borders nor a member of the Morcha, they underlined. Accusing the KMSC of acting as an agent of the state, the Morcha underlined that it had arrived at the Singhu border 13 days after others but was allowed to sit right in front on the Delhi side of the barricade, where the police are posted, while the rest of the protesting unions were behind the barriers. “Why this special treatment for the KMSC?” a farmer leader asked, adding that senior police officers visited the KMSC regularly. Among the other questions they had was how the tractors were allowed to proceed to the heart of Delhi and reach the Red Fort on Republic Day, when security is at its highest, and how they were allowed to enter the complex and run riot for four hours. “It is the police who are squarely responsible for what happened at the Red Fort,” Rakesh Tikait said, asking the protesting farmers not to be disheartened by the turn of events. Tikait, who is from Uttar Pradesh, and Kakkaji, who is from Madhya Pradesh, smelt a government conspiracy to defame the farmers from Punjab. Countering allegations that the farmers had disrespected the national flag, the Morcha leadership underlined that practically every tractor had a Tricolour flying high. Even at the Red Fort, where the Tricolour had been hoisted for the first time by Jawaharlal Nehru in 1947, the protesters had not touched the national flag, Kakkaji stressed. Yogendra Yadav said the Sangh ecosystem had not much of a leg to stand on in the matter of honouring the Tricolour, considering the national flag was not hoisted at the RSS headquarters till 2002. Amid questions about the Morcha leadership’s ability to control a movement that is growing and inspired rallies across the country on Tuesday, several union leaders said it was this very leadership that had saved the day by deciding to stop the tractors from leaving the borders when word reached them about the breach at Red Fort. “The SKM leadership intervened effectively in a timely manner to resist a small section which was trying to force tractors to deviate from the designated route towards the Red Fort. It stopped movement of tractors from Singhu Border at 2pm itself and also called off the parade at 6pm,” the All India Kisan Sabha, a member of the Morcha, said in a separate statement. “This effectively isolated the group that played into the hands of the government.... The events point clearly to the complicity of the BJP government with the disruptive elements.” The AIKS asked why the police had allowed an alternative route for a small section of farmers when they drew up the route plan in consultation with the Morcha, and why Deep Sidhu had not been arrested yet. Asked about the possibility of police action against the farmer leaders, many of whom have been named in FIRs, Yogendra Yadav said this was part and parcel of organising protests.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-383
28-01-2021||India||Amit Shah silent, FIRs filed against farmer leaders||Union home minister Amit Shah, under fire for the intelligence failure and police’s lack of preparation after several places in Delhi witnessed chaos and violence on Republic Day, caused surprise by remaining silent through Wednesday. Delhi police commissioner S.N. Srivastava accused farmer leaders of making provocative speeches and “betraying” his force’s trust, and threatened stringent action. An FIR has been filed against several senior leaders of the Samyukta Kisan Morcha. Sources said Shah, who has charge of law and order in Delhi, had at a meeting directed strict action against farmer leaders who had given the police a written undertaking of a peaceful tractor rally through designated routes. But the rally deviated from the assigned routes at some places, leading to chaos and violence. Many farmers believe the police facilitated the chaos by allowing those at the front of some of the convoys to veer off route, and then cracking down when those behind innocently tried to follow them. Srivastava told a news conference that the police had made thorough preparations and this was why “no one died in the violence”. One of the protesters died near the ITO when his tractor overturned, which the police say was an accident. The farmers claim that police action caused the mayhem that led to the accident. Some have alleged the farmer was shot by the police. Srivastava said 394 police personnel had been injured in the violence but did not specify the nature of the injuries. There is still no estimate of how many farmers were injured. Srivastava claimed the police had realised by Monday evening that the farmer leaders planned to deviate from the agreed plan and were pushing aggressive and militant elements to the forefront. He did not explain why the police, with such advance knowledge, had failed to prevent the chaos. Srivastava said: “The farmer unions have betrayed us by not honouring the agreement. Nineteen accused have been arrested and 50 detained so far for questioning.” He said 25 FIRs had been registered. Sources said FIRs had been registered against farmer leaders Darshan Pal, Rajinder Singh, Balbir Singh Rajewal, Buta Singh Burjgil and Joginder Singh Ugrahan for allegedly breaching the terms of the no-objection certificate issued for the tractor rally. An FIR also names Bharatiya Kisan Union spokesperson Rakesh Tikait. Late in the evening, the name of Deep Sidhu, a Khalistani sympathiser and former BJP campaigner, was added to an FIR. Srivastava said the police’s crime branch, special cell and district police would work on the case and a special investigation team would be formed. “Leaders like Satnam Singh Pannu delivered provocative speeches at Mukarba Chowk. Darshan Pal Singh too violated the agreement. From Ghazipur, they started their movement from 8.30am while the time given to them was noon,” Srivastava said. “The leaders were instigating the farmers. They were the ones refusing to move along the predetermined routes. We have videos showing how the leaders were instigating the farmers. From Ghazipur, many from Rakesh Tikait’s team broke barriers and marched forward. The police had many options but showed restraint.” But Srivastava did not explain how a few groups of farmers had succeeded in reaching the ITO in central Delhi and the Red Fort despite the heavy police presence. Some of the farmers who had arrived at the Red Fort said the police had not put up any barricades on the way. “As we approached the Red Fort, the police did not stop us at all. They were mute spectators. This suggests the police wanted the protesters to enter the Red Fort and engage in violence,” said Jagvir, a farmer.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-383
28-01-2021||India||Supreme Court  won’t bin Tandav FIRs||The Supreme Court on Wednesday refused to stay multiple FIRs registered across the country against streaming platform Amazon Prime and the makers of the web series Tandav but agreed to examine a plea for the clubbing of the cases for trial at one place. The court’s order means the series makers and actors can be arrested unless they get an anticipatory bail or the FIRs are quashed. Many have objected to what they have termed derogatory references to Lord Shiva in the series, with BJP members protesting in different parts of the country and also expressing anger at its depiction of a farmers’ protest and the machinations of a politician played by Saif Ali Khan. A bench of Justices Ashok Bhushan, R. Subhash Reddy and M.R. Shah said the petitioners were free to approach the respective state high courts for quashing of the FIRs. A battery of senior lawyers, including Fali S. Nariman, Mukul Rohatgi and Sidharth Luthra, had pleaded for the scrapping of the FIRs. The top court, however, issued notices to various states and complainants for their response on the possibility of clubbing the cases. Although Nariman and the other counsel pleaded that “no coercive action” be taken against the petitioners, the bench declined to pass any direction. While Nariman and Rohatgi represented Aparna Purohit, the creative head of Amazon Prime, Luthra appeared for Tandav producer Himanshu Mehra and director Abbas Zafar. Nariman had told the bench that the FIRs had no relevance since the makers of the series had already tendered apologies and had also withdrawn the scenes that had allegedly hurt the sentiments of Hindus. “You want the FIRs to be quashed. But why can’t you approach the high courts?” Justice Bhushan, heading the bench, asked. The senior counsel said they were registered in six states and it would be difficult for the petitioners to approach multiple high courts. “We have removed the objectionable content and still there are cases being filed,” Nariman said. But the court said the petitioners could not directly invoke the jurisdiction of the Supreme Court under Article 32 for alleged violation of their fundamental right to free speech. Justice Shah said the police could also file closure reports if apology had been sought and the objectionable content removed. Rohatgi referred to the recent case of Republic TV managing director Arnab Goswami when the apex court had agreed to examine his plea for clubbing multiple FIRs registered against him. “In Arnab Goswami’s case it has been established that after a violation of Article 19(1)(a) we can move the Supreme Court. Parties (petitioners) are in Mumbai, how many states will they go to to defend themselves? Rohatgi said. “People get offended with anything and everything these days. Please protect us with no coercive steps. We deleted content without any protest. Scenes have been deleted. It’s a political satire. (If) people are so sensitive in this country, then 19 (1)(a) would be destroyed. Arnab Goswami was also protected,” he argued. Article 19(1)(a) deals with freedom of speech and expression. “Your right to freedom of speech is not absolute. It is subject to restrictions,” Justice Shah told Luthra. Luthra said the court had a duty to step in when there was an infraction of fundamental rights. He referred to the T.T. Anthony case wherein the Supreme Court had abhorred the practice of multiple FIRs being registered over the same offence. “I (the petitioners) am being dragged all across the country and prosecuted. There are multiple FIRs against me,” he said. Advocate Siddharth Aggarwal, appearing for Mohd Zeeshan Ayyub who plays the role of a reformist student leader, said: “I am an actor who was contracted to play a character. Views ascribed on screen cannot be prescribed to me in person.” However, Justice Shah shot back: “You cannot take up a role without reading the script…. You cannot play a role hurting the religious sentiments of others.” Rohatgi argued that at the end of the day, this was a single offence. “If a murder is reported 100 times, then there cannot be 100 offences against me. It is a genuine innocent case. Everyday there is an FIR. Where will a man go? At least club them in one place. This is not a transfer plea. This case will put a lot of people under great harassment. Article 19(1)(a) was completely brushed away,” Rohatgi said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-383
28-01-2021||India||Congress seeks immediate dismissal of Amit Shah||The Congress has demanded the immediate dismissal of Union home minister Amit Shah, holding him “directly responsible” for the “anarchy” in the national capital on Republic Day and describing the Red Fort fiasco as a government-sponsored conspiracy to defame the peaceful farmers’ movement. Congress communications chief Randeep Surjewala told a news conference on Wednesday: “Amit Shah is directly responsible for the premeditated violence and anarchic scenes in the national capital during the farmers’ tractor rally. This is the second time when Delhi had been thrown into the vortex of violence and lawlessness, exposing Shah’s failure as home minister. If Prime Minister Narendra Modi does not sack him now, it will indicate he was part of the conspiracy.” By “second time”, the Congress was referring to the February 2020 Delhi riots in which 53 people lost their lives. Surjewala also alleged that the conspiratorial tactics visible during the anti-CAA protests at Shaheen Bagh and other places and the violence on the JNU and Jamia Millia Islamia campuses had been deployed to quell the farmers’ protest too. “Shah is the weakest home minister in India’s history,” the Congress spokesperson said. Wondering how could a group of 300-400 people capture India’s pride — Red Fort — Surjewala said: “Some people made public announcements at the protest sites on the night of January 25 that they would enter Delhi, defying the agreement reached between the farmers’ unions and Delhi police. What were the police doing? Sleeping? Why did the government not act on intelligence inputs? How were 30-40 tractors allowed to reach Red Fort when the police had acted brutally with protesters elsewhere? How were those who climbed atop Red Fort and hoisted a flag allowed to go back? Why were they not arrested?” Deep Sidhu, an actor accused of leading the group that hoisted the flag at Red Fort, was seen driving away from the spot on a motorcycle. Arguing that never in the history of independent India had any group succeeded in capturing Red Fort, Surjewala said: “Videos showed policemen sitting quietly when vandalism was going on. Who facilitated the passage (of the protesters) to Red Fort and the hoisting of the flag? Why was the main door not closed? What happened was a planned conspiracy. Photographs of Deep Sidhu with the Prime Minister and the home minister are everywhere.” Surjewala said: “It was a government plot. Deep Sidhu and his gang were allowed to escape from Red Fort as part of a strategy. The police remained a mute spectator. This conspiracy was hatched to defame the peaceful movement of the farmers and to break the unity among the unions.” Recalling that innocent people were now being targeted, much like what had happened in other instances of violence in the recent past including the Delhi riots, Surjewala said: “It is on Shah’s instructions that false cases are being slapped on leaders of farmers’ unions while Deep and gang have been spared. No FIR has been registered against the main culprits. “Shah has no moral right to stay in office for a minute.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-383
28-01-2021||India||Protesting farmers recount confusion, celebration ||Some farmers who took part in Tuesday’s Kisan Parade spoke of a “wonderful experience”, with people showering flowers from the roadside and agitation leaders ever alert to prevent any deviation from the agreed route. Some others described how they had unwittingly deviated from the route “just by following the tractor in front”. They suggested the confusion was a result of lapses, if not a conspiracy, by police who let some tractors veer off route and then cracked down on those following behind. It was difficult on Wednesday to find any farmer who defended whatever transgressions had happened during the Republic Day tractor rally. While many refused to talk after learning about FIRs being registered against their leaders, and some spoke guardedly, others were candid, having nothing untoward to report. Bhimlal, who had started off from the Ghazipur border with Uttar Pradesh, said confusion had led him and others to inadvertently violate the prescribed route despite their determination to play it by the book. “We had refused to join those who ventured out around 9am because our leaders had said the tractor rally had to begin only after the official Republic Day parade was over,” he told The Telegraph. “We started off at 11.30am. I was on a tractor along with other farmers but it appeared that nobody was familiar with the route. We learnt that some tractors starting from Ghazipur had reached the ITO and presumed we were allowed to go there. But the police stopped us, directing us to move towards Seelampur. “We were in a convoy of 1,200 tractors. There were barricades on the sanctioned routes but no policeman was present. Farmers pushed the barricades aside and proceeded. We reached Ghaziabad and then heard of clashes at the ITO and learnt that some tractors had reached the Red Fort. “We were astonished and wondered how the Red Fort had come into the plans. Local people offered us something to eat near Ghaziabad and then we were waylaid by the police on the way towards Meerut. We realised we were on the wrong route and turned back. We reached Ghazipur around 4pm.” Bhimlal suggested that most farmers’ lack of precise knowledge of the official route and the police’s initial failure to enforce it caused the mayhem. “We found out that the tractors that had reached the ITO had been allowed to do so by the police. They didn’t encounter any resistance while reaching the ITO, a place that wasn’t on the sanctioned route,” he said. Another farmer who was driving a tractor and requested anonymity backed up Bhimlal’s account. “We crossed Akshardham and reached the ITO. I just followed the tractors moving ahead of mine — this was my first visit to Delhi. I didn’t know I was committing any violation. The police didn’t stop us. Those who came later were stopped,” he said. “There was a jam at the ITO and we could hear some sort of ruckus at the front. We were told a few hundred tractors had been allowed to move, but the police started firing teargas after that. We were in a panic. “But after an hour, the tractors resumed moving and we all followed, presuming that was the route to be taken. We reached the Red Fort, oblivious of the circumstances that had led us there. “Hundreds of tractors were already parked there haphazardly. We presumed our leaders had negotiated with the police and we had been allowed to come to the Red Fort. We didn’t know what happened there. After some time, we returned.” On the other routes, most of the farmers were not even aware of any disturbances. Jasbir Kaur, who had set out with other women from the Tikri border with Haryana, said: “We had a wonderful experience. There was some confusion at Nangloi when we entered Delhi. Some tractors took a road that was not part of the sanctioned route but our leaders appealed over loudspeakers to stick to the route. “They repeatedly said our objective was to get the three laws repealed and not to damage public property or cause inconvenience to people. Our convoy of 2,000 tractors took the sanctioned route. “We were delighted to see people lined up on the roadside, showering flowers and distributing fruits, biscuits and water. People walked up to us and said they supported our cause. We felt proud and emboldened to sustain our peaceful struggle. “There was no police presence after Nangloi. We stopped at two places for refreshments. We arrived back at our camps at 7pm. There was no problem at all; we heard about the trouble on some routes only after returning to Tikri.” But Kaur’s sense of pride and achievement got somewhat injured when she heard how the electronic media had portrayed the parade. “We knew the media spoke for Modi and tried to defame us. But we never anticipated being projected as terrorists and rioters conspiring to ravage Delhi,” she said. “Initially, we were rattled. But we have regained our composure — our resolve to carry on despite the false propaganda and the government’s onslaught is intact. We aren’t going to cry off midway.” Ashish Mittal of the All India Kisan Mazdoor Sabha accused the police of deliberately creating confusion. “Attributing motives to the farmers, saying they intended to trigger violence, is criminal. The media is behaving irresponsibly, calling us terrorists. There was utter confusion about the routes and the innocent farmers were perplexed,” he said. “Barricades had been put up on sanctioned routes, teargas was fired on tractors moving peacefully, routes were curtailed — all this to create chaos deliberately. Some tractors were initially allowed to reach the ITO and the Red Fort as part of a conspiracy by the government.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-383
28-01-2021||India||Farmers had rejected actor Deep Sidhu||Punjabi actor turned activist Deep Sidhu, accused of inciting farmers to deviate from their assigned route and storm the Red Fort on Tuesday, has from the start been persona non grata for most farmer unions because of his BJP past and open Khalistani sympathies. Sidhu’s Facebook Live webcast on Republic Day showed him at the spot where the Sikh pennant Nishan Sahib was hoisted in front of the Red Fort’s ramparts — one of the protesters’ acts that has drawn the heaviest condemnation. Videos from the Red Fort, however, show Sidhu being chased away by some farmers after the flag-hoisting. Sidhu had campaigned for Bollywood actor and BJP candidate Sunny Deol during the 2019 general election but publicly distanced himself from the BJP and Deol after jumping onto the farmer-protest bandwagon in September last year. However, his pro-Khalistan utterances at a farmers’ demonstration in Shambhu, Punjab, in October as well as in interviews to journalist Barkha Dutt in November had made him unacceptable to the majority of the farmer unions that have historically opposed separatism. The hoisting of a religious flag at the Red Fort on Republic Day, in which Sidhu seems to have colluded, has played into the hands of a government that has been alleging Khalistani infiltration into the farmers’ movement. Amid these allegations, however, judicial activist Prashant Bhushan on Tuesday tweeted photos of Sidhu with Deol, Prime Minister Narendra Modi and current home minister Amit Shah. On Wednesday, BJP parliamentarian Subramanian Swamy tweeted: “There is a buzz, could be fake, or fake IDs of enemies that a BJP member close to high places in PMO acted as a (sic) agent provocateur in the Red Fort drama. Please check out and inform.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-383
28-01-2021||India||BJP blames Congress and the Left of instigating farmers||The BJP on Wednesday accused the Congress and the Left of instigating farmers and also intensified its effort to discredit the peasants’ struggle by calling the Republic Day violence an “insurrection against a democratically elected government”. At a media conference at the BJP headquarters in the evening, information and broadcasting minister Prakash Javadekar accused “the Congress and the Left of instigating violence”. He said the two political forces were desperately trying every means to “spread anarchy” in the country to defame the Narendra Modi government. “All those who are facing defeat in elections have come together and are trying to anyhow launch violence and anarchy in the country,” Javadekar said. He referred to the Congress’s and Rahul Gandhi’s tweets in support of the “non-violent” tractor parade of the farmers and pointed to the violence that ensued. “Everybody saw policemen were attacked with swords, lathis and tractors.… How was it a non-violent protest?” the BJP leader asked. Javadekar said a similar attempt had been made during the protests against the Citizenship Amendment Act, claimed it had failed and predicted that the current agitation would fail, too. “India will not tolerate the insult of the Tricolour at Red Fort. Action should be taken against all those who instigated the protesters,” he said. A Sikh religious flag had been hoisted atop a vacant pole at Red Fort during Tuesday’s violence and the Tricolour had not been touched. At a media briefing on cabinet decisions earlier in the day, Javadekar denied that the government had closed its doors for further talks with the farmers. The foot soldiers of the regime on Wednesday intensified their campaign to malign the farmers’ protest. “The anarchy we saw on the streets of Delhi, in the name of farmers, has nothing to do with either farm laws or farmers...,” tweeted the BJP’s social media head, Amit Malviya. “It is insurrection against a democratically elected government and if we the people, who elected this government, don’t stand up, they will come for us next!” he added. The BJP campaign was countered with multiple images on social media showing actor Deep Sidhu, who led the group that hoisted the flag at Red Fort and has been named in an FIR filed by Delhi police, with Modi, party MP Sunny Deol and other leaders.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-383
28-01-2021||India||Concern on appointment of judges to high courts ||The Supreme Court on Wednesday termed “a matter of great concern” the manner in which the Centre was delaying the appointment of judges to high courts by not responding to collegium recommendations. “We need the update on pending names as on January 29. Suppose you have reservations and send back names to us, then we can reiterate. But if you don’t give comments for five months on collegium recommendations, it is a matter of great concern,” Justice Sanjay Kishan Kaul, one of the judges on the bench told attorney-general K.K. Venugopal during a hearing. “Tell us what is your timeline to respond to these recommendations of judges’ appointments…. We need to put the house in order,” the bench, also having Chief Justice of India S.A. Bobde and Justice Surya Kant, told the government. The CJI said the court would ask the high courts for details of vacancies so that suitable orders could be passed on both the judicial and the administrative side. He pointed out that 189 names were pending with the government for the past several months. Justice Kaul noted that during the past five or six months the collegiums had cleared the names of nine judges, but six of them were still pending with the government. The court said that if the government had any reservations, it could certainly send back the names for reconsideration. “The government has taken more than a year to respond. You say something is pending with the Intelligence Bureau and then some chief minister…. But we want to know your timeline” Justice Surya Kant observed. The court was dealing with the plea of an NGO to expedite the process of filling up vacancies in the high courts. The CJI told Venugopal that Justice Kaul had prepared a chart on the vacancies and the proposals pending with the government and the collegium. CJI Bobde noted that whenever the collegium makes a recommendation, there is a spate of complaints questioning the names.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-384
28-01-2021||India||SC stays Bombay High Court's ‘skin contact’ ruling||The Supreme Court on Wednesday stayed a Bombay High Court judgment that had acquitted a man on the ground that groping a child’s breasts without “skin-to-skin contact” does not amount to sexual assault under the Protection of Children from Sexual Offences Act. Attorney-general K.K. Venugopal had rushed to the top court and sought an urgent stay on the January 19 judgment by Justice Pushpa Ganediwala, saying it would otherwise “set a dangerous precedent”. Making an oral request on behalf of the Centre, Venugopal said the government would file its appeal on Thursday. The bench of Chief Justice S.A. Bobde and Justices A.S. Bopanna and V. Ramasubramanian then stayed the judgment. The accused, Satish, had been awarded three years’ imprisonment by a lower court for sexually assaulting a 12-year-old girl, whose breasts he had pressed over her dress. But Justice Ganediwala of the Nagpur bench of Bombay High Court ruled there must be “skin-to-skin contact with sexual intent” for an act to be considered sexual assault under the Pocso Act. “The act of pressing of breast of the child aged 12 years, in the absence of any specific detail as to whether the top was removed or whether he inserted his hand inside the top and pressed her breast, would not fall in the definition of sexual assault,” the single-judge bench said. However, it added, under the Indian Penal Code’s Section 354 (assault or criminal force to outrage a woman’s modesty), “the act of pressing breast can be a criminal force to a woman/ girl with the intention to outrage her modesty”. Punishments for sexual assault under the IPC, however, tend to be lighter compared to those for similar offences under the Pocso Act. The apex court order said: “We permit the learned attorney-general to file an appropriate petition against the said judgment. In the meantime, we stay the acquittal of the accused..... Issue notice to the accused and the state of Maharashtra returnable two weeks.” A lawyers’ body, the Youth Bar Association of India, too filed a petition in the apex court on Wednesday challenging the high court judgment.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-384
28-01-2021||India||Covaxin works on coronavirus variant from UK||India’s homegrown Covid-19 vaccine, Covaxin, generates immune responses against the fast-spreading coronavirus variant from the UK, scientists said on Wednesday after a study that they say should dispel speculation that the mutant might evade vaccine-generated antibodies. The study at the National Institute of Virology, Pune, has found that antibodies generated by Covaxin “neutralise” the UK variant that displays multiple mutations and had stirred concerns in some scientific circles that it might be able to resist effects of vaccines. The NIV researchers collaborating with the vaccine maker Bharat Biotech extracted sera from 38 recipients of Covaxin and observed through lab experiments that the vaccine-generated antibodies were able to neutralise the UK variant as efficiently as other novel coronavirus variants. “It is unlikely that the (UK) variant would be able to dampen the potential benefits of the vaccine,” Pragya Yadav, a scientist at the NIV, a unit of the Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR), and her colleagues said in a preprint paper on bioRxiv but not peer-reviewed yet. Covaxin is the third in the club of Covid-19 vaccines shown through lab studies as capable of neutralising the UK variant. Over the past week, Pfizer-BioNTech and Moderna have also independently announced that their vaccines retain neutralising activity against the UK variant. Several research groups across the world have in recent weeks expressed concern that the emerging mutant coronavirus variants — the UK version marked by a mutation designated 501Y and others — could escape antibodies and reduce the efficacy of vaccines. “The UK variant doesn’t appear to be a problem for vaccines — but another emerging coronavirus variant from South Africa could be a challenge,” said Shahid Jameel, a senior virologist and director of the Trivedi School of Biosciences at Ashoka University, Sonipat (Haryana). Scientists in recent weeks have tracked another coronavirus variant with a mutation designated E484, seen in South Africa and other countries, including India. The E484 variant is capable of evading three antibodies and thus appears to have a better chance at escaping vaccine actions than the UK variant. But such concerns about certain variants evading immune responses are for now “largely hypothesis-driven”, Nikhil Patkar, associate professor at the Tata Memorial Centre Advanced Centre for Treatment Research and Education in Cancer, Navi Mumbai, told The Telegraph. Patkar and his colleagues at ACTREC had last year detected three cases of the E484 variant in Maharashtra. The ICMR, the Council of Scientific and Industrial Research and the department of biotechnology have initiated a genome surveillance initiative that will sequence 5 per cent of coronavirus samples nationwide to gain insights into the variants circulating across the country.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-384
28-01-2021||India||Guard dies in Odisha 3 days after Covid jab||A 25-year-old security guard at the Nuapada district hospital in western Odisha has died three days after taking a Covid-19 vaccine shot, prompting health authorities to launch an investigation into the “exact” cause of death. Doctors said guard Nanikram Keut, who was posted at the hospital for the past 13 months, appeared “perfectly healthy” and had no history of pre-existing health disorders prior to the vaccination. Nanikram was due to be married next month. Nuapada chief medical officer K.P. Behera told The Telegraph: “The security guard was perfectly healthy before being administered the vaccine on January 23. However, on January 25, he developed an illness and was admitted to the district hospital.” The district hospital referred the guard to the Veer Surendra Sai Institute of Medical Sciences and Research (VIMSAR), Burla, where he died on January 26 while undergoing treatment. Preliminary reports indicate that he had developed anaemia, an imbalance in his platelets, and an increase in his white blood cell counts. Behera said the investigations will try to determine why Nanikram developed anaemia. “We have preserved his viscera. An expert team is trying to ascertain the reasons for his death. We are all waiting for the post-mortem report.” Another security guard, who was senior to Nankiram, told this newspaper on the condition of anonymity: “Nanikram joined only 13 months back. He had also done duty at the Covid hospital. We have not seen any health related complication with him during the last 13 months. Though we get a paltry sum of Rs 7,500 as salary, he did his duty faithfully. He never refused any shift duty.” Nankiram’s brother Rupchand Keut, also a security guard, told this paper: “We are three brothers,. Nanikram was the youngest among us. He had no health complications. Our village is only four kilometres from the district headquarters. He used to come to hospital either on motorcycle or on his bicycle. He died only because of the vaccine. But we doubt if doctors will admit this in their report.” He said the whole family was shaken by the premature death of his brother who was to get married on February 19. Meanwhile, Garib Sena, a non-political outfit working for the cause of the poor, has demanded that Nanikram be declared a Covid warrior. “We have already launched an agitation. He should be given compensation as per the government guidelines. His family members should be given a regular job,” said its president Ravi Mangaraj. Earlier two health workers in the state, who took the Covid-19 vaccine last week, were admitted to a hospital after they reported Adverse Event Following Immunisation (AEFI). They were released from the hospital after their condition improved. The Union health ministry has said none of the deaths among people who have received vaccine shots so far are related to the vaccine. Among over 2.3 million people who have received vaccines nationwide, the ministry’s AEFI tracking mechanism had until January 26 detected eight deaths.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-384
28-01-2021||India||Nitish Kumar nixes BJP ministry push for Bihar cabinet ||Bihar chief minister Nitish Kumar has thrown a spanner in the much overdue cabinet expansion by objecting to a couple of names suggested by partner BJP to be sworn in as ministers and refusing to meet its state in-charge Bhupender Yadav over the issue. This has left ally BJP wringing its hands and mulling about its future course of action. “Our party sent some names to Nitish to be included in the cabinet of ministers, but he objected to a few of them, and asked to replace them with others. This is not the way things are done in an alliance. We do not interfere in the affairs of the Janata Dal United (JDU) and do not want it to interfere in ours,” a senior BJP leader told The Telegraph on the condition of anonymity. As the situation unfolded, Bhupender landed in Patna on Tuesday to meet Nitish and resolve the issue. However, he was not given an appointment. “Our party’s Bihar in-charge (Bhupender Yadav) tried meet Nitish to discuss his objections on some of the names proposed for a place in the cabinet, but the latter did not give him time. Avoiding our senior leaders is against the spirit of the coalition,” the senior BJP leader added. With the cabinet expansion going into a deadlock, the BJP leaders are going to fall back on Union home minister Amit Shah to rescue the situation. “Where has been the delay? Everything (cabinet expansion) will happen on time,” BJP’s Bihar unit president Sanjay Jaiswal told mediapersons on Wednesday, but could not give any timeframe for it. On the other hand, Nitish has always held the BJP responsible for the delay in cabinet expansion. However, the cabinet expansion has been due in the state for the last two-and-a-half months since the new government was formed on November 16 last year following the Assembly elections. At present there are 14 ministers, including the chief minister, in the cabinet. Several of them have been given the charge of four to six departments, bringing development work and decision-making to a virtual halt. The state can have 36 ministers. Sources in the BJP said that the names which Nitish objected to include former ministers Samrat Chaudhary and Nitish Mishra, among others. Both of them were associated with the JDU till a few years ago, but had left it subsequently to join the BJP. In fact, Nitish is said to have chosen to make his party MLA Mewalal Choudhary a minister in an attempt to stymie the chances of Samrat as both hail from the Khagaria area and are from the same Kushwaha caste. Among the other reasons behind the deadlock in cabinet expansion has been that the BJP, which is now the bigger partner in the alliance with 74 seats, wanted more ministers than the JDU that won 43 seats. But the JDU wanted that the two allies should have an equal number of ministers. Moreover, the JDU is not in a mood to forget and forgive Lok Janshakti Party (LJP) chief Chirag Paswan’s concerted move during the Assembly polls to harm its prospects. The JDU holds the BJP responsible for it and wants to be compensated by having more ministers than its strength.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-384
