29-01-2021||India||Minor IED blast outside Israeli Embassy in Delhi, no injuries||A minor IED blast took place outside the Israeli Embassy in the heart of Lutyens’ Delhi on Friday evening, police said on Friday. No one was injured. Some cars were damaged in the blast, an official said, adding that three fire tenders were rushed to the embassy on APJ Abdul Kalam Road. “A very low intensity improvised device went off... No injury to any person was reported and nor was there any damage to property except the glass panes of three vehicles parked nearby,” Delhi Police Additional PRO Anil Mittal said. He said initial impressions suggest it could be a mischievous attempt to create a sensation. The fire department received the call at 5.11 pm, as the Beating Retreat ceremony was going on at Rajpath a few kilometres away. President Ram Nath Kovind, Prime Minister Narendra Modi and other high-level officials were present at the Vijaya Chowk during the event, barely 1.4 kilometres away from the site. The bomb disposal squad of the Delhi Police carried our searches to find out if there were more explosives in the area. Forensic experts are also examining the blast site, an official said. There is a heavy deployment of police personnel and APJ Abdul Kalam Road road has been cordoned off. Officials said that they are scanning footage of CCTV cameras installed nearby to ascertain the sequence of events. Senior officers of the Delhi Police are on the spot. Reacting to the blast, Delhi Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal said any attempt to disturb peace should be firmly dealt with. “Concerned by the news of a blast near Israeli Embassy in Delhi. Agencies are determining the nature and cause of the blast. Thankfully, no loss of life has been reported yet. Any attempt to disturb the peace of Delhi should be firmly dealt with,” he tweeted. After the blast, the Central Industrial Security Force (CISF) which guards vital installations in the nuclear and aerospace domain, civil airports and central government buildings in the national capital has put on alert all its units across the country, official sources said. It has asked its personnel to enhance vigil and maintain a "high level of alert", they said. Taking notice of the incident, the Israeli foreign ministry on Friday said all its diplomats and embassy staff are “safe and sound” following the blast. “An explosion occurred a short while ago, close to the Israeli Embassy in New Delhi. There are no casualties and no harm was done to the building. All Israeli diplomats and embassy staff are safe and sound,” a foreign ministry release said. “The event is being investigated by the Indian authorities who are in contact with Israeli officials,” it said, adding that the foreign minister is frequently being updated on the situation and has directed to take all necessary precautions,” it said. “We will report further developments as they occur,” the release added.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-378
29-01-2021||India||Throw agri laws to waste paper basket, says Rahul||Congress leader Rahul Gandhi on Friday said the only solution to the farmers' issue was throwing the new agri laws in the "waste paper basket" and warned that if not resolved, the agitation will spread to other parts of the country. In a no-holds-barred attack at the Centre, Gandhi accused the government of trying to intimidate and discredit the farmers, using the National Investigation Agency. "It is very obvious that the farmers are very agitated because the government is destroying their livelihood. It is destroying the livelihood of our labourers and it is going to give the middle class a shock in the coming times because the prices of food are going to skyrocket," the former Congress chief said at a press conference. "What is being done to the farmers is absolutely criminal. You (government) are beating them, you are threatening them, you are bullying them, you are trying to discredit them," he said. The government needs to talk to the farmers and provide a solution to them, he said. Gandhi asserted that the only solution is repealing these laws and "putting the laws into the waste paper basket". "The government must not think that the farmers are going back home. They are not going home and my concern is that this situation is going to spread. We do not need this situation to spread, we need a conversation with farmers and we need a solution," Gandhi asserted. Responding to a question, he said the farmers' movement is going to spread to other states and cannot be suppressed. The whole issue is not just about farmers and this will go from farmers to workers to urban areas and slums, he said. Asked about the Republic Day violence, he said, "Who allowed the farmers to enter the Red Fort; is it not the home ministry's job to stop them from doing so."||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-378
29-01-2021||India||Anna Hazare backs off from indefinite fast against farm laws||Social activist Anna Hazare on Friday said he won't be proceeding with the indefinite fast against the new farm laws and claimed that the Central government has agreed to some of his demands.
"The Union government has agreed to some of my demands and also announced setting up a committee to improve the lives of farmers. I have decided to suspend my proposed indefinite fast starting from Saturday, Hazare said. In a statement earlier in the day, Hazare (84) had announced that he will be starting the hunger strike from his village Ralegan Siddhi in Maharashtra on Saturday. In that communication, Hazare had said he had written to the prime minister and Union agriculture minister five times on the plight of farmers but to no avail. "I have been demanding reforms in the agriculture sector, but the Centre doesn't seem to be taking right decisions," he said in a statement issued on Thursday. "The Centre has no sensitivity left for farmers, which is why I am starting my indefinite fast at my village from January 30," he said. Hazare, 83, also appealed his supporters not to flock to his village in Ahmednagar district in view of the coronavirus pandemic. Thousands of farmers have been protesting at Delhi's borders demanding rollback of the Farmers' Produce Trade and Commerce (Promotion and Facilitation) Act, 2020, the Farmers (Empowerment and Protection) Agreement on Price Assurance and Farm Services Act, 2020 and the Essential Commodities (Amendment) Act, 2020.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-379
29-01-2021||India||Virus battered economy to grow by 11 per cent in FY22, says Economic Survey||India’s coronavirus-battered economy will grow by 11 per cent in the financial year beginning in April, fired up by a mega-vaccine rollout and rebounding consumer demand, forecasts the Economic Survey tabled in Parliament on Friday. As impressive, though, as the headline growth number looks in the survey it is key to remember the projected double-digit expansion comes off an extremely low base. India’s growth rate is estimated to have contracted an estimated 7.7 per cent in the current financial year due to the pandemic, said the survey, a snapshot of the government’s annual pre-budget economy. India’s Covid lockdown at the end of March decimated businesses and wiped out jobs, resulting in the economy shrinking an unprecedented 23.9 per cent in the June quarter from a year earlier. Recovery began in the second quarter. But growth remained in negative territory throughout 2020. The massive contraction in output means that it will take time for the economy to recover ground lost in the pandemic. The survey forecasts India’s growth will slow to trend levels of 6.5 per cent in 2022-23. “This path would entail a growth in real GDP by 2.4 per cent over the absolute level of 2019-20, implying that the economy would take two years to reach and go past the pre-pandemic level,” the survey said. Even looking out to 2025, India will still fall short of achieving 6 per cent to 7 per cent expansion in actual terms if we use the pre-pandemic 2019-20 economic output as a base, the International Monetary Fund says. The government uses the survey data to draft the budget to be announced by Finance Minister Nirmala Sitharaman on Monday. The survey’s growth projections broadly echo the IMF’s prediction of 11.5 per cent growth for India in 2021-22 and 6.8 per cent the following year. “The rebound will be led by the low base and continued normalisation in economic activities as the rollout of Covid-19 vaccines gathers traction,” the survey said. India’s growth for the next two years would allow the country to reclaim its title as the world’s fastest-expanding major economy ahead of China, whose expansion the IMF pegs at 8.1 per cent in 2021 and 5.6 the following year. China returned to its pre-pandemic projected output level in the fourth quarter of 2020, ahead of all large economies. India’s ambitious vaccination programme will curb the pandemic and a more benign inflation climate should allow the central bank to lower interest rates which would spur investment and business activity, the Economic Survey says. Through the “early, intense” lockdown, India “benefited from successfully pushing the peak of the pandemic curve to (last) September," said Chief Economic Advisor Krishnamurthy Subramanian. Nominal economic growth, which indicates inflation for next year of 4.4 per cent, is pegged at 15.4 per cent for 2021-22. “Agriculture has remained the silver lining while contact-based services, manufacturing, and construction have been hit the hardest by the pandemic. Government consumption and net exports have cushioned the growth from diving further,” said Subramanian. But “with the economy’s returning to normalcy brought closer by the initiation of a mega-vaccination drive, hopes of a robust recovery in the services sector, consumption, and investment have been rekindled,” the survey said. At the same time, the survey said that the government will have to maintain an “expansionary” fiscal policy to support economic recovery. In other words, this means the government is going to miss its fiscal deficit target -- and by a wide margin. The government’s fiscal deficit for the financial year 2020-21 is projected at 6.5-7.5 per cent, way beyond the budget estimate of 3.5 per cent. Economists project a fiscal deficit target of around 5.5 per cent for the next fiscal year. IMF Chief Economist Gita Gopinath said the IMF hiked its 2021 forecast by 2.7 percentage points from its estimate issued in October on the back of an unexpectedly strong economic pickup which started the second half of 2020. Boosting India’s outlook is the fact the country has not faced a strong second and third wave of the pandemic as experienced in other countries, she said. According to the IMF, the US economy will expand by 5.1 per cent in 2021, driven by strong second-half momentum and a $900-billion relief scheme. US President Joe Biden is also looking for Congressional approval for a further $1.9 trillion in assistance. The IMF revised up its 2021 forecast for growth in Japan to 3.1 per cent from 2.3 per cent in October on the back of an over $700 billion Japanese stimulus plan. But due to the pandemic’s resurgence in Europe, it cut its euro-area forecast by a percentage point to 4.2 per cent. The IMF also lowered the UK’s projected expansion to 4.5 per cent, a drop of almost 1.5 percentage points. Still, overall, the IMF sees a much rosier outlook for the world economy than it did a few months ago, thanks to multiple vaccine approvals and the start of vaccination programs in many nations as well as the fiscal stimulus by many large countries. “Multiple vaccines have seen unexpectedly strong success and some countries have started ambitious vaccination drives,” Gopinath. The global economy is estimated to have shrunk by 3.9 per cent in 2020, nearly a full percentage point less than the IMF projected in October, but that would still be the worst peacetime contraction since the 1930s Great Depression. Growth will jump by 5.5 per cent in 2021, buttressed by strong US output, the IMF said. At the same time, Gopinath warned the global economy continues to face “tremendous uncertainty” and overall global output will be far below economic forecasts made before the outbreak of the devastating pandemic. In just three months since October, “deaths have doubled to over two million, as new waves have lifted infections past previous peaks in many countries,” said Gopinath. “Much now depends on the outcome of this race between a mutating virus and vaccines to end the pandemic and on the ability of (government) policies to provide effective support until that happens,” she added. Also, “because of the partial nature of the rebound, over 150 economies are expected to have per-capita incomes below their 2019 levels in 2021,” Gopinath said. That number declines only modestly to around 110 economies in 2022. “At $22 trillion, the projected cumulative output loss over 2020–2025 relative to the pre-pandemic projected levels remains substantial,” she said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-379
29-01-2021||India||India reaping 'lockdown dividend' by saving lives and livelihood||India's economy is likely to rebound with a 11 per cent growth in the next financial year as it makes a “V-shaped” recovery after witnessing a pandemic-led carnage, the Pre-Budget Economic Survey said on Friday.

The Gross Domestic Product (GDP) is projected to contract by a record 7.7 per cent in the current fiscal ending March 31, 2021.

India witnessed its last annual contraction of 5.2 per cent in fiscal year 1979-80.

The Economic Survey 2020-21 said the agriculture sector is the only silver lining while services, manufacturing and construction were most hit by the lockdown that was imposed to curb the outbreak of the COVID-19 pandemic.

"After an estimated 7.7 per cent pandemic-driven contraction in 2020-21, India's real GDP is projected to record a growth of 11.0 per cent in 2021-22 and nominal GDP by 15.4 per cent. These conservative estimates reflect upside potential that can manifest due to the continued normalisation in economic activities as the rollout of COVID-19 vaccines gathers traction," the survey said.

The growth will further be supported by supply-side push from reforms and easing of regulations, push for infrastructural investments, boost to manufacturing sector through the Productivity Linked Incentive Schemes, recovery of pent-up demand for services sector, increase in discretionary consumption subsequent to roll-out of the vaccine and pick up in credit given adequate liquidity and low interest rates, it said.

The survey tabled in Parliament by Finance Minister Nirmala Sitharaman said there is likely to be a fiscal slippage during the year based on the available trends for April to November 2020. The document also said despite the hard-hitting economic shock created by the global pandemic, India is witnessing a V-shaped recovery with a stable macroeconomic situation aided by a stable currency, comfortable current account, burgeoning forex reserves, and encouraging signs in the manufacturing sector output.

"India is reaping the 'lockdown dividend' from the brave, preventive measures adopted at the onset of the pandemic...," it said in the opening chapter titled 'Saving Lives and Livelihoods Amidst a Once-in-a-Century Crisis'.

Unlike Oscar Wilde's cynic, 'who knows the price of everything and the value of nothing,' India's policy response to the pandemic stemmed fundamentally from the humane principle advocated eloquently in the Mahabharata that 'Saving a life that is in jeopardy is the origin of dharma.'

India is expected to witness current account surplus during the current financial year after a gap of 17 years, the survey said. India has recorded a current account surplus of 3.1 per cent of GDP in the first half of the year largely supported by strong services exports.

"Given the trend in imports of both goods and services, it is expected that India will end with an annual current account surplus of at least 2 per cent of GDP after a period of 17 years," it said.

The contraction of 7.7 per cent in the current fiscal is on account of disruption in normal activities due to the pandemic. However, India is expected to be the fastest growing economy in the next two years, the survey said.

Earlier in the week, the International Monetary Fund projected an impressive 11.5 per cent growth rate for India in 2021, making the country the only major economy of the world to register a double-digit growth this year amid the pandemic.

As per the advanced estimates of national income released by the National Statistical Office (NSO), India's GDP is estimated to contract by a record 7.7 per cent during 2020-21 as the COVID-19 pandemic severely hit the key manufacturing and services segments.

Other global agencies too have projected contraction in the country's economic growth for the fiscal 2020-21.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-379
29-01-2021||India||Clashes break out at Singhu border||Violence broke out at the Singhu border protest site after large groups of people claiming to be locals reached there to vacate the area, leading to a clash between them and agitating farmers and prompting police to resort to baton charge and use tear gas shells. Delhi Police SHO (Alipur) Pradeep Paliwal was injured in the violence after a man attacked him with a sword, an official said, adding that some people were also wounded. The official said that police detained the man who attacked the station house officer. The locals demanded that the farmers vacate the Singhu border protest site as they had "insulted" the national flag during their tractor parade on Republic Day. Armed with sticks, the group of locals reached the site and asked the farmers to leave while raising slogans against them. Both sides also pelted stones at each other. The protestors at the Singhu border, much of which is barred for entry from outside, were coming out in numbers to resist the locals. However, they were promptly stopped by farmer union volunteers which helped the situation from turning ugly. "They are not locals, but hired goons. They were throwing stones, petrol bombs at us. They attempted to burn down our trolleys also. We are here to resist them. We won't leave the place," said Harkirat Mann Beniwal, 21, from Punjab's Khana district. The security forces turned the border into a fortress on Friday by arranging multi-layered security, putting barricades everywhere and sealing all entry points. The nerve-centre of the ongoing farmer's protest is being thronged with thousands of security personnel marching at the site. No one, even media personnel, are being allowed to enter the protest site with the area cordoned off by multiple concrete barricades and intermodal containers. "These batons, tear gas shells and ammunition can't scare us. We won't budge, we won't leave till our demands of repealing three farm laws are met," said 26-year-old Manjeet Dhillon, from Haryana's Kaithal, while standing on the other side of the barricade. While there was a sense of unease among some protestors, nothing changed at the respective stages of the Samyukta Kisan Morcha (SKM) and the Kisan Mazdoor Sangharsh Samiti (KMSC), where decibel levels, courtesy the fiery speeches, were high like before. The SKM has blamed the KMSC, actor-turned-activist Deep Sidhu and the central government for the violence during the farmers' tractor parade in Delhi on January 26. Ram Bhados, the only shop open at the whole stretch, said he opened it after being asked to do so by the security forces. "I didn't want to open the shop. I am afraid things might get violent. They (the security personnel) asked me to open the tea-shop and serve them. They said they'll protect me," said the visibly-tensed 18-year-old. The tractor parade on Tuesday that was to highlight the demand of the protesting farmer unions for a repeal of three new agriculture laws turned violent as the protesters deviated from the pre-designated routes, attacked police personnel, overturned vehicles and hoisted a religious flag on the ramparts of the iconic Red Fort. The police issued lookout notices against farmer leaders on Thursday and announced a probe into the "conspiracy" behind the Republic Day violence. The police have so far registered 33 FIRs in connection with the violence and issued lookout notices against 44 people, including most of the farmer leaders.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-379
29-01-2021||India||Contribute to fulfill people’s needs, Modi tells MPs ahead of Budget||On the first day of the Budget Session, Prime Minister Narendra Modi asked MPs to debate and discuss all the issues that concern people of the country. The session, which commenced on Friday, is set to be stormy with the opposition parties boycotting the President’s address to the joint sitting of Parliament. Modi also hoped that the members will not shy away from contributing to fulfill people’s aspirations, by making full use of Parliament and following all the propriety of democracy. He added that Finance Minister Nirmala Sitharaman had to give four-five mini-budgets in the form of packages in 2020 and expressed confidence that the upcoming budget would also be seen as part of that series. In his remarks to the media before the commencement of Parliament’s Budget Session, Modi said the first session of this decade commences on Friday and emphasised that this decade is very important for the bright future of India. “And, therefore, a golden opportunity has come before the nation to fast fulfill the dreams seen by the freedom fighters. There should be proper utilisation of this decade and, therefore, there should be discussions and presentation of different views this session for meaningful results keeping in mind this entire decade,” he said adding that these are the expectations of the country. The prime minister expressed confidence that the hope and expectation with which the people of the country have sent all MPs to Parliament, they will not shy away from contributing to fulfill the aspirations of the people, by making full use of Parliament and following all the propriety of democracy. “I have full faith that all the Members of Parliament will make this session more productive,” Modi said. The Prime Minister’s remarks came even as 19 opposition parties boycotted the President’s address to a joint sitting of both houses, in solidarity with the farmers agitating against the three contentious farm laws. He also said,”Perhaps, for the first time in the history of India it has happened that our Finance Minister (Niramala Sitharaman) had to present four-five mini budgets in the form of separate packages in 2020.” “The series of mini budgets continued in a way in 2020,” he said. Modi expressed confidence that the upcoming budget will also be seen as a part of the series of those four-five budgets. “I along with all the MPs of both the Houses are committed and will strive to further the message of the President under his guidance,” he said. Sitharaman is scheduled to present the annual Union Budget in Parliament on Monday.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-379
29-01-2021||India||BJP slams Opposition for boycotting Kovind speech||The BJP on Friday lashed out at Opposition parties for boycotting President Ram Nath Kovind's address to the joint sitting of Parliament, calling it "unfortunate" and noting that he as the constitutional head of the country is above political differences. BJP leader and Union minister Ravi Shankar Prasad singled out the Congress, the largest Opposition party which is among the 20 parties that boycotted the address, in his attack, saying its "arrogance" is the "real problem" as it believes that it is bound to rule the country despite not having the popular mandate. Opposition parties violated parliamentary conventions, he said, adding that the BJP never boycotted a presidential address to Parliament despite many "scams" during the Congress-led UPA government. Attacking the Congress, Prasad said it has not denounced the violence and alleged insult to the national flag at the Red Fort during the farmers' tractor rally on January 26. That Congress MP Ravneet Singh Bittu raised slogans during Kovind's address was very painful and unfortunate, he said. Opposition parties boycotted the address in support of the protesting farmers' demand for repeal of the three agri laws.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-379
29-01-2021||India||Kovind condemns R-Day violence in Parliament speech||President Ram Nath Kovind on Thursday strongly defended the three contentious agri laws that have sparked intense protests from a section of farmers and condemned as "'very unfortunate" the Republic Day violence and the "insult" to the tricolour during the farmers' tractor parade here on January 26. In his customary address to the joint sitting of Parliament that marks the start of the Budget session, Kovind also referred to the Chinese aggression on the border and asserted that his government is vigilant and fully committed to protecting the country's interests. Additional forces have been deployed to safeguard India's sovereignty, he said while paying tributes to the 20 soldiers who made supreme sacrifices in a clash with the Chinese army at the Galwan valley in eastern Ladakh in June last year. India and China are locked in a tense military standoff in eastern Ladakh since May 5 last. He also noted that the new farm reform laws enacted in September last year have immediately benefited 10 crore small farmers, and said various parties in the past had supported these measures. Criticising the violence which marred the farmers' protest on the Republic Day, he said if the Constitution gives us the right to freedom of expression, it also teaches us to take laws and rules seriously. The President's hour-long address was boycotted by over 20 opposition parties in support of the demand of the protesting farmers for the repeal of the three farm laws. Congress MP Ravneet Singh Bittu raised slogans like 'Jai Jawan Jai Kisan' during the address and demanded repeal of the three laws. Some opposition MPs were heard raising slogans in the Central Hall's gallery. Noting that the Supreme Court has put the implementation of the three laws on hold, Kovind said the government will respect whatever is the decision of the apex court. "My Government has always respected freedom of expression and holding of peaceful agitations in a democratic set up. However, the recent acts of dishonouring the National Flag and showing disrespect to the auspicious occasion of the Republic Day are unfortunate," he said. The President also said the rights and facilities available under the system prevailing before the enactment of the three new laws are not affected in any way. "Rather, through these agricultural reforms, the Government has provided new facilities to the farmers and has empowered them". Acknowledging that the Budget session is being held at a challenging time of COVID-19, the President said no matter how big the challenge is, India will not stop. Whenever India is united, it has achieved impossible goals, he added. The President expressed sadness that in the fight against the pandemic, India has lost many countrymen and paid homage to his predecessor Pranab Mukherjee and six MPs who passed away during the period last year. Kovind expressed his satisfaction over the government's measures to fight the pandemic and asserted that its timely decisions saved lives of millions of people while also helping the economy. Over 80 crore poor people were provided free ration for eight months, he said. In his speech, the President highlighted the views of the government approved by the Union Cabinet. Lauding the 'Aatmanirbhar Bharat' programme, the President said it is not just confined to manufacturing in India but is also a campaign aimed at elevating the standard of living of every Indian as well as boosting the self-confidence of the country. Referring to the country's vaccination programme, he said, "It is a matter of immense pride that India is conducting the world's largest vaccination programme. Both the vaccines rolled out under this programme are produced indigenously."||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-379
29-01-2021||India||Kunal Kamra defends his tweets in SC, says hyperbole an essential tool||Stand-up comedian Kunal Kamra defended in the Supreme Court on Friday his alleged scandalous tweets against the judiciary saying if the court believes he has crossed the line and wants to shut down his internet indefinitely, then he too will write Happy Independence Day postcards every 15th August, "just like my Kashmiri friends." He said irreverence and hyperbole are essential tools for the comedic enterprise and a comic raises questions on issues of public interest in his own unique way. "We would be reduced to a country of incarcerated artists and flourishing lapdogs if powerful people and institutions continue to show an inability to tolerate rebuke or criticism," he said. Kamra, who filed his reply affidavit in a plea seeking contempt action against him for the alleged scandalous tweets said, I may disagree with many decisions by many courts in many matters, but I promise this bench that I will respect any decision that comes my way with a broad smile. I will not vilify this bench or the Supreme Court in this matter specifically because that would actually be contempt of court. "Should powerful people and institutions continue to show an inability to tolerate rebuke or criticism, we would be reduced to a country of incarcerated artists and flourishing lapdogs. If this court believes I have crossed a line and wants to shut down my internet indefinitely, then I too will write Happy Independence Day post cards every 15th August, just like my Kashmiri friends," he said. The comedian said that he believes that there is growing culture in intolerance in this country, where taking offence is seen as a fundamental right and has been elevated to the status of a much loved national indoor sport. "We are witnessing an assault on the freedom of speech and expression, with comedians like Munawar Farooqi being jailed for jokes that they have not been made, and school students being interrogated for sedition. At such a time, I hope that this court will demonstrate that the freedom of speech and expression is cardinal constitutional value, and recognise that the possibility of being offended is a necessary incident to the exercise of this right," he said. "The Language and style I resort to are not with the intention to insult, but to draw attention to and prompt an engagement with issues that I believe are relevant to our democracy and which have also been raised in the public domain by more serious and learned commentators," he said. Kamra further said he believes that constitutional offices -- including judicial offices -- know no protection from jokes. "I do not believe that any high authority, including judges, would find themselves unable to discharge their duties only on account of being the subject of satire or comedy, he said. Defending his tweets he said, that they were not published with the intention to diminish the faith of the people in the highest court of our democracy. He said the suggestion that the tweets could shake the foundation of the most powerful court in the world is an over-estimation of his abilities. "Just as the Supreme Court values the faith the public places in it (and seek to protect it by the exercise of its criminal contempt jurisdiction), it should also trust the public not to form its opinion of the court on the basis of a few jokes on Twitter. The public's faith in the judiciary is founded on the institution's own actions, and not on any criticism or commentary about it," he said. Kamra said that jokes are based on a comedian's perception, which they use to make the audience that shares that perception laugh. "Most people do not react to jokes that don't make them laugh; they ignore them like our political leaders ignore their critics. That is where the like of joke must end. The truth about the attention economy is that the more attention one gives to criticism or ridicule, the more credible it appears to be," he said. On December 18 last year, the top court issued a show-cause notice to Kamra for his alleged scandalous tweets against the apex court and exempted him from personal appearances. Attorney General K K Venugopal had granted consent for initiation of criminal contempt proceedings against Kamra, saying the comedian's tweets were in "bad taste" and it was time that people understand that attacking the apex court brazenly would attract punishment. The consent of either the attorney general or the solicitor general is necessary under Section 15 of the Contempt of Courts Act for initiating contempt proceedings against a person. Criminal contempt of the Supreme Court is punishable with a fine of up to Rs 2,000 and imprisonment of up to six months. One of the petitions in the Kamra case has been filed by law student Shrirang Katneshwarkar and others. They have claimed that the stand-up comedian had started publishing tweets on November 11 last year when the top court was hearing the appeal of Arnab Goswami against the Bombay High Court's order rejecting the journalist's plea seeking interim bail in a 2018 abetment-to-suicide case. The plea alleged that after the top court granted interim bail to Goswami on November 11, Kamra "again published various tweets and thereby scandalized" the apex court and "further lowered" its authority. PTI MNL ABA SJK||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-379
29-01-2021||India||Will join investigation, says Deep Sidhu||Actor-turned-activist Deep Sidhu, who has been booked in connection with the religious flag incident at Red Fort, has said he needs some time to bring out the truth and then will join the investigation. The 36-year-old Sidhu is in the eye of a storm for being among the protesters who put up a religious flag atop the Red Fort on Republic Day. "An arrest warrant has been issued against me and also a lookout notice has been issued against me. First I want to give this message that I will join the investigation," Sidhu said in a video uploaded on Facebook. He said he needed some time to bring out the truth. "Because whatever has been spread, it is false information and it is misleading the public at large. Therefore, I need a couple of days to bring out the truth and then I will join the investigation," said Sidhu. "I am requesting the investigation agencies...I have not done anything wrong then why should I run away and why should I be scared. I am not scared.I have done nothing wrong and that will come out," he said. He told the investigation agencies and the police department that he will come to them in two days. The kind of rumours being spread is not based on facts. I need two days to bring out the truth based on the facts and I will collect all the evidence and proof, he stated. The Delhi Police had named actor Deep Sidhu in an FIR lodged in connection with the Red Fort incident. Sidhu was present at the Red Fort when a religious flag and a farmer flag were put at the flagpole at the historic monument, triggering massive outrage. Sidhu had been accused by farm bodies of trying to defame their agitation and termed a "traitor". On Thursday, he had hit out at farm leaders for allegedly spreading false propaganda and hatred against him. On January 26, Sidhu, hailing from Punjab's Muktsar district, had sought to defend the action of protesters at the Red Fort, saying they did not remove the national flag and had put up the 'Nishan Sahib' as a symbolic protest. Sidhu was also a close aide of BJP MP Sunny Deol, who contested from the Gurdaspur seat in Punjab during the 2019 Lok Sabha elections. He remained with Deol during the poll campaigning. Deol had distanced himself from Sidhu in December last year after he joined the farmers' agitation.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-379
29-01-2021||India||Spike in fresh Covid cases, tally crosses 1.7 crore mark||With 18,855 fresh cases, India's COVID-19 tally has gone up to 1,07,20,048, while the number of people who have recuperated from the disease has surged to 1,03,94,352, pushing the national recovery rate to 96.96 per cent, the health ministry said on Friday. The death toll due to the viral disease in the country has climbed to 1,54,010 with 163 more fatalities, the ministry's data updated at 8 am showed. The number of people who have recuperated from the disease has surged to 1,03,94,352, pushing the national COVID-19 recovery rate to 96.96 per cent, while the case fatality rate stands at 1.44 per cent. The number of active COVID-19 cases in the country remained below two lakh for the 10th consecutive day. There are 1,71,686 active coronavirus cases in the country, which account for only 1.60 per cent of the total number of cases, the data stated. India's COVID-19 tally had crossed the 20-lakh mark on August 7 last year, the 30-lakh mark on August 23, the 40-lakh mark on September 5 and the 50-lakh mark on September 16. It went past 60 lakh on September 28, 70 lakh on October 11, 80 lakh on October 29, 90 lakh on November 20 and the one-crore mark on December 19. According to the Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR), a total of 19,50,81,079 samples have so far been tested for the viral disease across the country, including 7,42,306 on Thursday. The 163 new fatalities include 50 from Maharashtra, 35 from Chhattisgarh, 19 from Kerala, nine each from Punjab and West Bengal, six each from Delhi, Tamil Nadu and Uttar Pradesh. Of the total 1,54,010 deaths caused by the viral disease, Maharashtra accounts for the highest number of 50,944, followed by Tamil Nadu (12,339), Karnataka (12,209), Delhi (10,835), West Bengal (10,148), Uttar Pradesh (8,642) and Andhra Pradesh (7,152). The ministry stressed that more than 70 per cent of the COVID-19 deaths in the country occurred due to comorbidities. "Our figures are being reconciled with the Indian Council of Medical Research," the ministry said on its website, adding that a state-wise distribution of the figures is subject to further verification and reconciliation.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-379
29-01-2021||India||Cold wave prevails in Delhi as mercury stays below 4 degrees Celsius||Cold wave conditions prevailed in Delhi on Friday as the minimum temperature settled at four degrees Celsius, five notches below normal, the India Meteorological Department said. In the plains, the IMD declares a cold wave if the minimum temperature dips to 4 degrees Celsius. A severe cold wave is when the minimum is 2 degrees Celsius or less. This is the third cold wave day this week. No relief is predicted on Saturday, too, it said. The minimum temperature on Tuesday and Thursday had settled at 2.1 degrees Celsius and 3.8 degrees Celsius, respectively, due to the cold and dry northwesterly winds barreling through the plains, the IMD said. Delhi had recorded a cold day on Sunday with the maximum temperature dropping to 15 degrees Celsius, six notches below normal and the lowest this month. On New Year's Day, the city had recorded a minimum of 1.1 degrees Celsius, the lowest for the month in 15 years.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-380
29-01-2021||India||Vaccines safe for those on aspirin: ICMR||People on blood thinners such as aspirin may take Covid-19 vaccines without hesitation, Balram Bhargava, the head of India’s health research department, said on Thursday. He said the country’s drug regulatory authority would clarify this soon. Bhargava’s assurance is relevant to people prioritised for Covid-19 vaccination but taking blood thinners such as aspirin or clopidogrel. Doctors say a significant proportion of the elderly are likely to be on either of these two drugs. The fact sheets for the two Covid-19 vaccines currently used in India — Covishield and Covaxin — flag blood thinners. The Covaxin document says people “on a blood thinner” should not receive Covaxin, while the Covishield document says people on a blood thinner should mention this to their healthcare providers before they receive Covishield. Bhargava, director-general of the Indian Council of Medical Research, said both companies have written to the Drugs Controller-General of India (DCGI) about changing these points on the fact sheets. He said there are two classes of blood thinners — anti-platelet medications such as aspirin or clopidogrel, and anti-coagulant medications such as heparin. “Aspirin and clopidogrel — (they) are not a problem at all,” Bhargava said. People who are on anti-coagulants have a higher tendency to bleed. “The only worry is that there can be a local hematoma or a local swelling at the site of the injection,” Bhargava said. He said people on anti-coagulants may stop the medication for one or two days before receiving the vaccination. These points, Bhargava said, will be incorporated into the corrected fact sheets once approved by the DCGI.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-380
29-01-2021||India||Karnataka BJP strikes deal with Opposition JDS||The ruling BJP in Karnataka has reached an understanding with Opposition Janata Dal Secular with the sole aim of wresting control of the Legislative Council where it doesn’t have the sufficient number to pass crucial bills. According to the arrangement, which comes more than a year after the BJP toppled the JDS-Congress coalition by poaching 17 of their lawmakers, a JDS member would be made the chairman of the council while the BJP would settle for deputy chairmanship. The ruling party was quick to fulfil its promise to JDS by nominating M.K. Pranesh for  the post of deputy chairman on Thursday. Senior JDS leader Barasavaraj Horatti, who is tipped to replace council chairman K. Pratapchandra Shetty of the Congress, has already held meetings with chief minister B.S. Yediyurappa. Horatti had on Wednesday told reporters that he had already sent his resume to BJP national president J.P. Nadda. “This deal was in the making for sometime,” said a JDS functionary who declined to be named. “But this arrangement will be limited to the Legislative Council and not the Assembly, at least for now,” the JDS leader added. Yediyurappa had taken the initiative for a rapprochement with JDS leaders, former Prime Minister H.D. Deve Gowda and former chief minister H.D. Kumaraswamy, after sensing strong opposition from within the BJP, with several leaders wanting a change in leadership. The current presiding officer, Shetty, has proved more than a handful for the ruling party to control the Upper House. He had twice adjourned the House before the government could table a contentious cattle slaughter bill after passing it in the state Assembly in December last year. With the JDS joining hands with the BJP, the ruling party would enjoy a clear majority in the Upper House, as well. This would help the government “pass crucial bills without the Opposition and Shetty coming in the way”, the JDS functionary said. In the House of 75 seats, the BJP is the single-largest party with 31 members, Congress has 29, including the chairman, JDS 13, one Independent and one vacancy. Indications of a possible truck between the BJP and JDS was evident on December 15 when a one-day special session of the council was convened to move a no-trust motion against Shetty and pass The Karnataka Prevention of Slaughter and Preservation of Cattle Bill 2020 that provided for up to seven years in jail for violators. The BJP had made deputy chairman S.L. Dharmegowda of the JDS occupy the chairman’s seat after closing the doors of the chairman’s chamber to stop Shetty from entering the hall. But that led to the Congress members physically removing Dharmegowda from the chair. On December 29, Dharmegowda was found dead after being run over by a train in Chickmagalur in a case of suicide. His family had then admitted he was under treatment for depression, which apparently worsened after the ruckus in the council. The state government had then taken the ordinance route to enact the cattle slaughter law, which has come into force. The relationship between the JDS and Congress had gone sour after the collapse of their coalition government. The two parties had come together to keep the BJP out of power after the 2018 state polls produced a hung Assembly.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-380
29-01-2021||India||Congress fears conjurer’s budget||The Congress on Thursday expressed fear that the Union budget, to be presented on February 1, would be dressed up with “false numbers” to create a “conjurer’s illusion” for the next financial year. It predicted a slow and painful recovery for the Indian economy, which it accused the Narendra Modi government of having wrecked. “We are afraid that the finance minister will present dressed-up revised estimates for 2020-21 and attempt to build an attractive narrative for 2021-22,” former finance minister P. Chidambaram told a news conference. “The revised estimate for 2020-21 will be a set of false numbers and, therefore, the budgetary estimate for 2021-22 will be a conjurer’s illusion.” Rahul Gandhi too took at dig at the government a day before the budget session of Parliament starts. “Mr Modi’s governance is a lesson in how to ruin one of the world’s fastest growing economies,” he tweeted. Chidambaram argued that the government was “exceptionally obstinate, impervious to good advice and uncaring about the calamitous consequences of its economic policies”. He said the Opposition had a duty to show the mirror to the finance minister, who is presiding over the country’s first recession in four decades. Chidambaram rued that the six years of Modi’s rule had witnessed “the slow but inexorable descent into a deep hole”. “The conclusion of a recent study by Brookings using IMF and World Bank data is humiliating but not surprising at all: the biggest rise in poverty will be in India and India will overtake Nigeria and become the country with the largest number of poor people,” he said. He recalled how the Congress had earlier emphasised that the assumptions behind the 2020-21 budget were wrong and the targets set were unattainable. “Even without the pandemic, the economy would have continued on the downward path that had begun in the first quarter of 2018-19 and continued for eight successive quarters,” Chidambaram said. “The pandemic pushed the economy into an abyss: minus 23.9 per cent in Q1 of 2020-21 and minus 7.5 per cent in Q2. The year 2020-21 will end with negative growth. None of the numbers estimated at the beginning of the year will be achieved. “The revenue targets will be missed by a large margin, capital investment will take a hit, the revenue deficit will be close to 5 per cent and the fiscal deficit will exceed 7 per cent.” Chidambaram predicted that GDP growth in 2021-22 (in constant prices) will not be more than 5 per cent and that the unemployment rate would remain high. He said agriculture would grow at a satisfactory rate if the government does not arbitrarily disrupt the sector with anti-farmer laws and retrograde import-export policies for farm products. Chidambaram flagged hurdles such as inadequate credit growth, protectionism, crony capitalism, encouragement of monopolies, the climate of distrust and vindictive administrative actions. He suggested certain measures on behalf of his party. “Impart a large fiscal stimulus, make direct cash transfers to 20-30 per cent of the families at the bottom for at least six months, formulate a rescue plan for MSMEs, reduce tax rates (especially GST and other indirect tax rates, eg, on petrol and diesel), increase government capital expenditure and recapitalise public sector banks,” the Congress leader said. He advised the government to abandon protectionist policies, re-engage with the world, enter into bilateral trade agreements with as many countries as possible, and remove the bias against imports, apart from formulating sector-specific revival packages for telecommunication, power, mining, construction, aviation, and tourism and hospitality.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-380
29-01-2021||India||Opposition to boycott President’s speech at joint Parliament session||The Congress and 15 other Opposition parties have decided to boycott the President’s address to the joint session of Parliament on Friday in protest against the government’s “insensitive” handling of the farmers’ movement. In a joint statement, the Opposition parties also accused the government of “orchestrating” the chaos and violence witnessed at some places during Tuesday’s tractor rally by the farmers in Delhi. The boycott of the President’s address heralds a stormy Parliament session, and the Opposition has not ruled out boycotting the budget presentation too although the final decision has not been taken yet. All the Opposition parties are agreed, however, that it cannot be business as usual in the House given the government’s treatment of the farmers. If the government tries to clear the protest sites by force, one of the consequences could be a washed-out budget session. Some in the Opposition, however, favour participating in the parliamentary proceedings to highlight the government’s failures and misdeeds on issues ranging from the economy and China to the farmer protest. Senior Congress leaders P. Chidambaram and Mallikarjun Kharge on Thursday repeated the allegation that the Red Fort transgression during Tuesday’s Kisan Parade had been instigated by people close to the BJP. They wondered why the police had stood and watched when a few hundred people climbed atop the fort and hoisted a flag, and said this inaction showed “the government’s connivance”. Chidambaram and Kharge said the home minister must own responsibility for what happened and demanded a probe into the “link between the BJP and those involved in the Red Fort incident”. The Opposition parties’ joint statement that announced the boycott of the presidential address said: “India’s farmers have been collectively fighting against the three farm laws arbitrarily imposed by the BJP government that threaten the future of Indian agriculture which sustains over 60 per cent of India’s population and the livelihood of crores of farmers, sharecroppers and farm labour. “Lakhs of farmers have been agitating at the gates of Delhi braving biting cold and heavy rain for the last 64 days for their rights and justice. Over 155 farmers have lost their lives. “The government remains unmoved and has responded with water cannons, tear gas and lathi-charge. Every effort has been made to discredit a legitimate mass movement through government-sponsored disinformation campaign. The protest and the agitation have been largely peaceful. “Unfortunately, there were (a) few acts of violence on January 26, 2021... which was condemned universally and unequivocally. We also express our sadness over the injuries sustained by Delhi police personnel while handling the difficult situation. But we believe that an impartial investigation will reveal the central government’s nefarious role in orchestrating those events.” The statement added: “The Prime Minister and the BJP government remain arrogant, adamant and undemocratic in their response. Shocked by this insensitivity of the government, we, the following Opposition political parties, reaffirming the collective demand for the repeal of the anti-farmer laws and in solidarity with the Indian farmers, have decided to boycott the President’s address to both the Houses of Parliament on Friday.” The signatories were the Congress, Trinamul Congress, Nationalist Congress Party, DMK, Shiv Sena, CPM, CPI, National Conference, Samajwadi Party, Rashtriya Janata Dal, Indian Union Muslim League, RSP, People’s Democratic Party, MDMK, Kerala Congress (M) and the AIUDF. The statement described the three farm laws as an assault on the rights of the states that violated the federal spirit of the Constitution. “If not repealed, these laws will effectively dismantle the edifice of national food security that rests upon MSP (minimum support price for crops), government procurement and public distribution system (PDS). The farm bills were brought without any consultations with states and farmer unions and lacked national consensus,” it said. “Parliamentary scrutiny was bypassed and the laws were pushed through muzzling the Opposition, in brazen violation of parliamentary rules, practices and conventions. The very constitutional validity of these laws remains in question.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-380
29-01-2021||India||Tractor rally: Sedition FIR on journalists, Shashi Tharoor||Noida police have registered an FIR for sedition and other offences against Congress MP Shashi Tharoor, six journalists and an unknown person over their tweets and comments about a farmer’s death during Tuesday’s tractor rally. Tharoor, Rajdeep Sardesai, Mrinal Pande, Zafar Agha and three editors of The Caravan magazine — Paresh Nath, Anant Nath and Vinod K. Jose — and the unknown person stand accused of “spreading violence and disharmony” through their social media posts. Lookout notices were issued against 30 farmers and leaders named in the FIR on the violence during the tractor rally, police sources said. However, actor Deep Sidhu, seen at Red Fort during the hoisting of a Sikh pennant and a farmer union flag there, was missing, the police sources said. Farmer leaders have accused Sidhu of acting as a government agent.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-380
29-01-2021||India||Govt whip ignites farmers' demoralised spirits||The government’s apparent attempt to evict farmers protesting on Delhi’s borders and crack down on their leaders seemed on Thursday night to have injected fresh energy into the movement, which had appeared demoralised after the turn of events on Republic Day. Overnight, thousands of farmers from Uttar Pradesh, Haryana and Punjab set out for the Ghazipur, Singhu and Tikri borders after emergency village meetings. Earlier in the day, huge police contingents had been deployed at all three sites as the government tried to strike at a time public support to the farmers seemed to have eroded because of the chaos in the tractor rally. At Singhu, the approach road from Delhi was barricaded and earthmovers deployed on the road from Haryana amid speculation that the roads would be dug up. This would cut the supply lines of food and other essentials, and also make it difficult for the protesters to take turns at the site before returning home when a new batch arrives. But it was at Ghazipur that the administration moved first, snapping water and power lines, removing the makeshift toilets and ordering the farmers to vacate the site by Thursday night. Rakesh Tikait of the Bharatiya Kisan Union, who has become the face of the protest at Ghazipur, said he would rather commit suicide than end the dharna without the repeal of the three new farm laws. “No violence has taken place at the Ghazipur border but still the Uttar Pradesh government is resorting to a policy of suppression,” he said, breaking down on camera as he accused the BJP regime of being bent on destroying farmers. The farmers had for two months been protesting peacefully on the highway, braving dangerously cold weather, seeking repeal of the farm laws that they believe will leave them at the mercy of big corporates and reduce them to labourers on their own lands. At least 150 farmers had died in the protests. But on Republic Day, during the tractor rally some participants breached the agreed route and schedule and clashed with the police. They also breached the Red Fort, where a Sikh pennant and a peasant union flag were hoisted from an empty flagpole. The turn of events left the farmers and their leaders upset and on the backfoot. But as the government appeared to be rolling up its sleeves to force out the protesters, the Samyukta Kisan Morcha declared it would not be cowed down and appealed to farmers from Punjab, Haryana and Uttar Pradesh to join in larger numbers. By night, visuals from Tikait’s village of Sisauli in Muzaffarnagar showed a crowd of farmers converging and shouting slogans against the BJP. Late-night emergency khaps were held in Haryana’s villages. And overnight, farmers began leaving for Delhi. Even before this late mobilisation, union leaders at Tikri, which was relatively free of tension on Thursday, had expected 20,000 more tractors to join them. Lookout circulars had been issued against the farmers and their leaders, and the leaders were served with notices asking why there should not be action against them over the chaos at the tractor rally. The Morcha leaders in turn questioned the police delay in acting against those actually responsible for the violence. They had earlier blamed actor Deep Sidhu, who did a Facebook Live from the Red Fort, of acting as an agent of the government and instigating the trouble. Since the use of force against farmers who have decided not to retaliate to any provocation could once again turn opinion in their favour, the administrations in Uttar Pradesh and Haryana had through Thursday tried to make it difficult for them to continue the protest. At most sites, from the largest at Singhu on G.T. Karnal Road to a comparatively tiny one at Palwal, people claiming to be residents turned up shouting slogans against the farmers and demanding action against them for the chaos on Republic Day. The Morcha said: “RSS-BJP-sponsored people came to Ghazipur site, and (the farmer) leaders explained to the public to remain peaceful against the government (plans) to sabotage the farmers’ struggle.” Police in Haryana and Uttar Pradesh, both BJP-ruled, were busy through the past 24 hours evicting the local-level protests that have mushroomed across the two states in support of the demand for the repeal of the three laws. Jai Kisan Andolan leader Yogendra Yadav’s apartment block in East Delhi was targeted by a group of protesters on Thursday evening. Yadav also alleged that his phone number had been made public and he was receiving threat calls.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-380
29-01-2021||India||Haryana leader quits BJP in support of farmers’ protest||A senior farmer leader of the BJP in Haryana quit the party on Thursday in support of the farmers’ movement against the Centre’s new agriculture laws. The resignation of former MLA Rampal Majra came a day after Abhay Chautala, the lone MLA of the INLD, resigned from the Assembly to protest the Centre’s refusal to repeal the farm laws. Abhay is the first MLA from Haryana to quit over the farm laws. Majra, a three-time MLA, was a top INLD leader before he joined the BJP after the 2019 Haryana elections. “The BJP has failed to understand the farmers’ plight and safeguard their interests,” he said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-380
29-01-2021||India||Tractor rally returnees ‘beaten’ in UP||Police evicted 8,000 to 9,000 protesting farmers from a roadside venue some 100km from Delhi in a late night operation on Wednesday, allegedly baton-charging them brutally, damaging their tents and leaving many injured. The farmers at the site in Baghpat district — most of whom had just returned from Tuesday’s tractor rally in Delhi and would have left for their homes on Thursday — said the police took away all their belongings in trucks. Police officers denied any brutality, saying it was a simple exercise to clear the Delhi-Saharanpur highway. The farmers said they had been on a dharna against the three new farm laws for the past 40 days on a tract of fallow farmland about 10 metres from the highway, and had never blocked the road. The protest site in the Baraut area of Baghpat has been a transit point for farmers heading to or returning from the protest site at the Ghazipur border with Delhi. Its occupancy fluctuated between 20,000 and 8,000, with some sleeping in the 30-odd tents pitched there and the rest in the open. All the arrangements had been made by local khap panchayats. “Police officers had since Wednesday morning been trying to persuade us to leave. Just after 11pm, some 500 police and Provincial Armed Constabulary personnel arrived in trucks and brutally lathi-charged us. Many farmers have been admitted to hospital,” Chaudhary Surendra Singh, a farmer leader, said. He said that most of the farmers present had just returned from Delhi and were tired. “Most of us were asleep and didn’t realise what was happening. We started running helter-skelter. They tore our tents, scattered the food and took away our blankets, clothes, hookahs and other belongings,” Singh said. Baghpat additional district magistrate Amit Kumar Singh said: “We removed the farmers from the national highway peacefully. The National Highway Authority of India had written to the government saying the farmers’ protest was hampering its functioning.” The protesting farmers said Baghpat had sent the highest number of participants from Uttar Pradesh to Tuesday’s tractor parade in Delhi. “Baghpat is a stronghold of Chaudhary Ajit Singh’s RLD and Rakesh Tikait’s Bharatiya Kisan Union. Ajit Singh had asked his workers to support the farmers’ protest, and the BKU has been active in the protests at Delhi’s borders since the beginning,” said Mahendra Pal, a farmer. The leader of the Opposition in the Uttar Pradesh Assembly, Ram Govind Chaudhary of the Samajwadi Party, on Thursday said instead of farmers, an FIR should be registered against the Delhi police commissioner and top BJP leaders for the violence in New Delhi on Republic Day.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-380
29-01-2021||India||Arundhati Roy flags Delhi riots ‘parallel’ with R-Day clash||Author Arundhati Roy on Thursday flagged a similar “pattern” between the Republic Day clashes in Delhi and the communal riots last February, speaking at an online event to mark the 59th birth anniversary on Friday of murdered journalist Gauri Lankesh. “The pattern is so similar — spinning it into a pogrom. Politicians calling for violence and you could see police supporting that,” she said when Ahmedabad-based activist Teesta Setalvad asked her about an article on the pandemic Roy had written for London’s Financial Times that mentioned the protests in the winter of 2019. “During Republic Day, once again you see a person close to the ruling establishment using it to try and slide the ground under the feet of the spectacular and very peaceful protest. The farmers have shown a great deal of wisdom and political spine and I don’t think you can turn them over easily,” Roy said. Punjabi actor and former BJP campaigner Deep Sidhu is accused of inciting the farmers from the tractor parade who stormed the Red Fort, clashed with police and hoisted a Sikh pennant. The police were accused of complicity in the violence, which killed 53 people of whom 40 were Muslim. On Thursday, supporters of the new farm regime held counter protests at the sites of the farmers’ agitation, calling for the eviction of those protesting against the new laws. The similarity was unmistakable with the mobilisation of Right-wing groups and individuals against the anti-CAA (Citizenship Amendment Act) last winter. One such mobilisation was led by BJP leader Kapil Mishra who made an incendiary speech just hours before the riots began. Roy reminded the audience — in line with the work of Lankesh who was assassinated in Bangalore in 2017, allegedly by Hindu extremists — about the prophecy activists had made decades ago about an alliance between crony capitalism and religious ultra-nationalism. “There were these two locks which were opened in the ’80s and ’90s: the lock of the Babri Masjid and the lock of the bazaar. And they created two kinds of fundamentalism — economic fundamentalism and Hindu Right-wing fundamentalism — which produce their own cycles of violence. “Both led to this country increasingly becoming a police state, passing laws that could not possibly be called democratic. There are laws but how they are applied depends on your caste, ethnicity, gender and religion. You see the institutions of democracy being hollowed out.” Roy, a Booker Prize winner, quoted Oxfam studies that show that the cumulative wealth of India’s 63 richest people outstripped the 2018 budget outlay, and that the wealth of the country’s 100 richest grew exponentially during the pandemic that last April witnessed a loss of 170,000 jobs per minute. “If you critique these, they turn around and say, what is the alternative? Because we are then supposed to look for the person with the bigger chest or more money or more power, another king,” Roy said. “Whereas we actually need to look for people who understand this country, who have a heart, who love the people in this country. We have become a country of ordinances and ambushes and secret announcements. The citizenry is being treated as an enemy, including people who vote for it.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-380
29-01-2021||India||Main accused in tractor rally violence Deep Sidhu goes missing||Police sources on Thursday said that Deep Sidhu, accused of inciting Tuesday’s violence during the farmers’ tractor rally and dubbed a “government agent” by farmer leaders, is “missing”. They said the police had issued lookout circulars against 44 people, including 30 farmers and agitation leaders, who have been named in 25 FIRs registered in connection with Tuesday’s violence. These circulars mean they cannot leave the country. The farmer leaders named in the FIRs will be asked to surrender their passports. It’s not clear whether there’s a lookout notice against Sidhu, a Punjabi actor turned activist, about whom an officer said: “His whereabouts are not known.” The Khalistani sympathiser and former BJP campaigner is accused of inciting farmers to deviate from the assigned tractor rally routes and storm the Red Fort on Tuesday. He had done a Facebook Live webcast as the Sikh pennant Nishan Sahib was hoisted at the Red Fort. Late on Wednesday night, Sidhu was named in an FIR on the violence. Officers were, however, tight-lipped on whether he had been named as an accused or a suspect. Farmer leaders believe Sidhu was “planted” by the government to sabotage and defame the protest against the new farm laws. Sidhu had campaigned for Bollywood actor and BJP candidate Sunny Deol during the 2019 general election but they publicly distanced from each other after Sidhu jumped onto the farmer protest bandwagon in September last year. Photographs of Sidhu with Deol, Prime Minister Narendra Modi and current home minister Amit Shah began circulating on social media after Tuesday’s violence, but they appear to have been taken during the 2019 general election campaign. The decision to issue the lookout circular was taken on the instructions of Shah, whose ministry is in charge of law and order in Delhi, sources said. Shah has been under fire for the intelligence failure and lack of planning that allowed the situation to get out of hand on Tuesday. “The home minister has asked the police brass to take stringent action against the accused farmer leaders,” an IPS officer said. The farmers say thDeep e police engineered the chaos, misdirecting and misleading the farmers into veering off the designated routes and approaching the Red Fort and other unscheduled spots. Shah, who has so far been silent on Tuesday’s incidents, visited two hospitals on Thursday to enquire about the injured policemen admitted after the violence.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-381
29-01-2021||India||Arvind Kejriwal offers unqualified support to the farmers’ protest||Delhi chief minister Arvind Kejriwal on Thursday offered unqualified support to the farmers’ protest and focused his attack on the BJP by deviating from the Aam Aadmi Party’s stand of targeting the Congress. The AAP leader also announced plans to contest all elections in six states. “The violence that happened on January 26 was unfortunate. Whoever is responsible, whoever is actually responsible, not the false cases that are being filed, whichever party is actually responsible, they should get the strictest punishment. But because of violence that day, it does not mean that farmers’ issues are over. Those issues for which they are sitting there (Delhi’s borders) for 60 days are still alive. How will the movement just end?” Kejriwal said. “A country where the farmers are unhappy can never prosper. We all have to support the farmers in our states, and our support should be non-violent. Whenever you do that, leave your party caps and flags in your homes. The support should be non-political, and you should support them as a common man,” he added. The Delhi chief minister’s stand is significant at a time when the BJP has launched a campaign against the farmers for the violence on Republic Day. The AAP has blamed people linked to the BJP, such as actor Deep Sidhu, for leading the violence. “Now, these three bills (farm laws) will snatch the livelihood of farmers, giving it to a few corporates. For the farmers, it is a question of existence. How will the farmers feed their families if farming is taken away from them? It is a question of their existence. If they do not sit in the biting cold, they would not be able to retain their livelihoods,” Kejriwal said. He announced plans to fight local body and Assembly polls in Uttar Pradesh, Uttarakhand, Goa, Punjab, Himachal Pradesh and Gujarat in the next two years. Of these, only Punjab — where most of the protesting farmers are from — is ruled by the Congress, with the AAP as the main Opposition. “Despite (the BJP) getting 325 seats, the UP government has not worked. They tell us that they too want free electricity, good hospitals, good schools, free medicines, free water, free road infrastructure, but since our governments are not able to do it despite a huge mandate, it’s only the AAP that can save the state,” Kejriwal said, naming BJP ministers in Uttar Pradesh and Uttarakhand for allegedly making false promises of development. The AAP leader added: “All parties play the religion card, which is appealing to Hindus to vote for a Hindu party, appealing to Muslims to vote for a Muslim party, appealing to Thakurs and Pandits to vote for a Thakur and Pandit party. That’s how they please people to vote for their parties.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-381
29-01-2021||India||Odisha’s Nandankanan zoo gears up for guests||Odisha’s Nandankanan zoo is gearing up to welcome new guests. Eighteen animals, including a pair of Himalayan black bears and three pairs of Asian brown tortoises, will soon be arriving at the zoo from the Aizawl Zoological Park in Mizoram. The animals are being brought to Nandankanan, located on the outskirts of Bhubaneswar, as part of an exchange programme. “We have received the approval of the Central Zoo Authority for the exchange. The approval was granted under Section 381 of the Wildlife Protection Act, 1972, for the purpose of breeding, pairing and conservation,” said a senior official of Nandankanan zoo. While the Himalayan black bears will be the main attractions, other animals, including a pair of wild dogs, the brown tortoises, a pair of Assamese macaques and three pairs of stump-tailed macaques, will also add to the appeal of Nandankanan, considered among the best zoological parks of the country. According to the agreement, the Odisha zoo has to bring these animals within six months. If it fails to do so within the stipulated timeframe, the permission will get cancelled. In return, Nandankanan zoo will send two pairs of common peafowls to the Aizawl Zoological Park.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-381
