30-01-2021||India||Delhi Police receive 1,700 videos related to R-Day violence||The Delhi Police has received 1,700 video clips and CCTV footage from public so far related to the violence during farmers' Republic Day tractor rally and is taking help from forensic experts to analyse the material and identify the culprits, Joint Commissioner of Police (Crime) B K Singh said on Saturday. Singh said the Crime Branch, which is investigating the nine cases related to the violence including at the Red Fort and ITO, is also examining dump data of mobile phone calls and registration numbers of tractors. He said a team from the National Forensic Sciences University has been called to analyse the video clips and CCTV footage related to the violence that left 394 police personnel injured and one protester dead. On Friday, the Delhi Police had issued an appeal in leading newspapers asking people to share any evidence or information about the violence. "After our appeal, Delhi Police has received 1,700 video clips and CCTV footage from public related to the violence that took place during the tractor parade on Republic Day. Through videos, we will identify culprits who indulged in the violence," Singh told PTI. He said that investigators are also analysing footage and photos taken from drone-mounted cameras and carrying out 3D mapping of the area vandalised at the Red Fort. A team of forensic experts on Saturday visited the Red Fort to collect samples. Delhi witnessed violence during the January 26 tractor rally organised by protesting farmer unions to highlight their demand for repeal of the Centre's three farm laws. Many of the protesters, driving tractors, reached the Red Fort while some of them hoisted religious flags on its domes and the flagstaff at the ramparts, where the national flag is unfurled by the prime minister on Independence Day. In its appeal, the Delhi Police said, "All members of the public, including media persons, who are witnesses to the incidents or have any information about the incident or have captured any activity on their mobile phones or camera, are hereby requested to come forward and give their statements/footage/picture in their possession at room number 215, second floor, Old Delhi Police Headquarters, ITO during office hours, on any working day or contact on 8750871237 or 011-23490094 or send e-mail on kisanandolanriots.26jain2021@gmmail.com." (PTI)||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-376
30-01-2021||India||Security beefed up at Singhu border a day after violence||Security has been increased on Saturday at Delhi’s Singhu border as several barricades have been put up, a day after violence erupted during a demonstration by 'locals' against agitating farmers.Presence of increased security personnel was also observed in the area. The venue on the GT Karnal road, one of the major protest sites, also had a thinner presence than previous days even though protesting farmers asserted that it was "swelling" with more people from Punjab and Haryana coming to join them. The entry to the farmers' protest venue was closely guarded by police and para military personnel with even mediapersons finding it difficult to reach there. A senior police officer, on condition of anonymity, said "There is a blanket order not to allow free movement across the protest site in view of yesterday's violent protest as any mischief could aggravate the situation." Police fired tear gas and baton-charged on Friday to break up a clash between farmers and a large group of men claiming to be local residents who hurled stones at each other at the Singhu border. A police officer had sustained serious injury when attacked by a man carrying a sword. The GT Karnal road leading to the protest site at Singhu border was blocked with five layers of barricades erected by using concrete blocks, that were manned by large numbers of police and para military personnel. The final barricade near a toll booth at Singhu border was further buttressed with inland containers and concrete blocks and soil was being dumped there to prevent movement of vehicles. Even a street along the highway was dug up to 8-10 feet and rimmed with concrete blocks to prevent any vehicular movement to and from the farmers' protest venue. The protesting farmers expressed their resolve to continue the agitation against the Centre's farm laws, saying it will gather momentum in the coming days. "The presence of farmers had dipped after the incident of violence and vandalism on Republic Day but now more are coming from Punjab and Haryana to join in," said a protester from Patiala refusing to be named. Randhir Singh, a social activist from Nabha said the farmers were determined to continue their struggle against the farm laws till the Centre repealed it. The 'langars' at the protest site were seen to be less crowded, as umbrella organisation of the protesting farmers- Samyukta Kisan Morcha- had given call for a one day fast to observe Sadbhavna Divas (Harmony day) on the death anniversary of Mahatma Gandhi on Saturday.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-376
30-01-2021||India||Myntra to change logo after complaint it is 'offensive' to women||Fashion e-tailer Myntra has decided to change its log following a complaint by a Mumbai-based activist, who alleged that the brand’s signage was offensive to women. Sources close to the company confirmed the development and said Myntra is changing the logo across its website, app and packaging material. Myntra did not respond to queries. The complaint had been lodged last month with the cyber cell in Mumbai. “A complainant (woman) had approached the cyber crime police station in the matter. We called a meeting with Myntra following the complaint, they (Myntra) came and agreed to change the logo. They have sent an email as well on the same,” DCP Rashmi Karandikar of Mumbai Police’s Cyber Crime Department said. In a tweet, Avesta Foundation said, “Congratulations to our founder. She did what apparently seemed impossible. Thank you everyone for your support. We’re overwhelmed by the response. Kudos to @myntra for addressing the concerns and respecting the sentiments of millions of women”. However, the matter has drawn a mixed response from netizens. While some welcomed the company’s decision to change the logo, many said such demands seemed whimsical. Myntra is one of the largest fashion retailers in the country. During its End of Reason Sale last month, it sold 11 million items while catering to more than 5 million orders.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-376
30-01-2021||India||BJP scripted R-Day violence with Delhi Police’s help, claims AAP||The violence that took place during the tractor parade on January 26 was scripted by the BJP with the help of Delhi Police to “defame and discredit” the farmers’ movement, the Aam Aadmi Party claimed on Saturday. Addressing a press conference, AAP spokesperson Saurabh Bhardwaj called BJP leaders the “greatest anti-nationals” and demanded that cases of sedition must be filed against them and probed by the NIA. An immediate reaction was not available from the BJP. “Police and BJP together scripted the violence of January 26 and the days after. This script was prepared by the BJP with the help of Delhi Police to defame and discredit the farmers’ movement,” the AAP leader claimed. He said on January 26, BJP agent Deep Sidhu was allowed by the Delhi police to start his march to enter Delhi much before the farmers. “On BJP's instructions, the Delhi police allowed this person to reach and vandalise the Red Fort. The BJP and the Delhi police also allowed this person to hoist a flag of Nishan Sahib at the Red Fort and to create a ruckus,” Bhardwaj claimed. Tens of thousands of farmers broke barriers to storm the national capital on Tuesday, their tractor parade to highlight their demands dissolving into unprecedented scenes of anarchy as they fought with police, overturned vehicles and delivered a national insult hoisting a religious flag from the ramparts of the Red Fort, a privilege reserved for India's tricolour. The AAP leader claimed that “BJP goons” on Saturday attacked the farmers at Singhu and Tikri borders and were not local residents. “To push their divisive agenda, the BJP set up this script. Immediately after the event, if you see the chronology, you will understand how the events unfolded. “Suddenly some people arrive and talk about some Panchayat where a decision was taken to push these protestors out of the borders. I am from Delhi but I have not heard about any such panchayat from the local people who want the farmers to leave the borders,” he said. He said,”Yesterday these so-called local people reached the Singhu and Tikri border and assaulted the farmers. The police have barricaded these borders. Despite that, how can these people reach the protest venue?”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-376
30-01-2021||India||Govt offer on farm laws still stands, says Modi at all-party meet||Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Saturday told floor leaders of various political parties that his government's offer on agri laws made to protesting farmers "still stands" and it was a "phone call away" for talks, days after violence broke out in parts of the national capital on Republic Day. Addressing these leaders at the customary all-party meeting convened by the government for the smooth conduct of the Budget Session, the Prime Minister, responding to the references by Opposition leaders about the "unfortunate incident" on Republic Day, said that the "law will take its own course". Sharing the details of the meeting chaired by Modi and attended by Defence Minister Rajnath Singh, Parliamentary Affairs Minister Pralhad Joshi said, "The Prime Minister assured that the Centre is approaching the farmers issue with an open mind." "The Prime Minister said the Centre's stand is same as it was on January 22, the last meeting between the protesting farmers and the Centre and proposal given by Agriculture Minister on the farm laws still stands. Modiji reiterated what Tomarji had said - that he (Narendra Singh Tomar) is phone call away for talks," Joshi said quoting Modi. Emphasising on the need for the smooth functioning of Parliament, Modi said smaller parties suffer the most due to disruptions as they do not get chance to raise their issues. "It is for the bigger parties to ensure Parliament functions smoothly, there are no disruptions and thus, the smaller parties are able to voice their views in Parliament," Joshi said citing Modi's remarks. The all-party meeting is convened for the government to put forth its legislative agenda before political parties. Leaders from various parties flag issues they wish to raise during the meeting. The Prime Minister also condemned the vandalism of Mahatma Gandhi's statue in California in the US, the parliamentary affairs minister said. At Friday's meeting, various leaders including Ghulam Nabi Azad of Congress, Sudip Bandyopadhyay of Trinamool Congress, Balwinder Singh Bhunder of Shiromani Akali Dal and Vinayak Raut of Shiv Sena raised the issue of protesting farmers, sources said. All major Opposition parties sought discussions on farmers' issues during the meeting. While almost all Opposition parties condemned the violence and vandalism at Red fort by a group of protesting farmers on Republic Day, they asserted that other farmers protesting peacefully should not be held responsible for it. Meanwhile, the BJD demanded the passage of women's reservation bill during the budget session which was supported by the YSR Congress and the TRS. TMC's Bandyopadhyay said boycott of President's address by 20 Opposition parties was a strong message for the government to withdraw the farm laws, the sources said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-376
30-01-2021||India||Delhi blast: Police team finds most CCTVs non-functional||Investigators probing the minor blast near the Israeli Embassy have not come across "anything concrete" yet as most of the CCTV cameras near the site of the explosion were "non-functional" at the time of incident, official police sources said on Saturday. An investigation team of Delhi Police's Special Cell had earlier in the day visited the site near the embassy to collect more evidence as part of its ongoing probe, sources said, adding that it managed to get access to footage from some of the CCTV cameras in the area. "We have recovered some CCTV footage but have not obtained anything concrete yet as most of the CCTV cameras in the area near the embassy are non-functional," an official source said. Earlier, footage retrieved from CCTV cameras showed a vehicle moving suspiciously near the embassy just before the explosion, sources said. Another source said that forensic experts have also collected some samples from the crime scene that will ascertain the chemical composition used in the low-intensity improvised explosive device (IED). Official sources said ball bearings seized from the spot were found scattered on the ground and the impact of the explosion was felt within a radius of 20-25 metres. The minor blast took place on Friday evening in a high-security zone of the national capital. No one was injured. An envelope addressed to the Israeli Embassy and containing a note was found at the site of the blast, sources had said. A case has been registered and the Delhi Police's Special Cell is investigating the matter. Initial investigations revealed that the IED was planted in a flower pot on the median near Jindal House on A P J Abdul Kalam road outside the Israeli embassy, sources said on Friday. A 10-member team from the Forensic Science Laboratory (FSL) had on Friday visited the blast site and collected residues which include metallic swab and ball bearings. Delhi Police Commissioner S N Shrivastava too had visited the site in the evening and took stock of the situation. All materials seized from the spot have been handed over to the investigating officer of the Delhi Police, a source said. "We are yet to receive the samples collected from the spot. Once the investigating officer submits the samples conclusively, we will be sending them to our explosives team. Only a chemical test will help us identify the exact composition of the samples," FSL sources said. The blast took place when President Ram Nath Kovind, Vice President M Venkaiah Naidu and Prime Minister Narendra Modi were present a few kilometres away at the Beating Retreat ceremony at the culmination of the Republic Day celebrations. The explosion took place on a day when India and Israel marked the completion of the 29th anniversary of establishment of their diplomatic relations.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-376
30-01-2021||India||R- Day breach: forensics team at Red Fort||A team of forensic experts on Saturday visited the Red Fort to collect evidence in connection with the violence that broke out at the iconic monument on Republic Day. Thousands of protesting farmers had breached the monument on January 26 after deviating from their tractor rally route triggering a conflict with the police. The Crime Branch of Delhi Police is investigating the matter and several teams have been formed to identify the culprits. The force has termed the vandalisation at the fort as an "anti-national act". "A team of forensic experts visited Red Fort and it is collecting evidence," an official said. The protesting farmers had clashed with police during the tractor parade called by farmer unions to highlight their demand for repeal of the Centre's three farm laws. Around 50 police personnel were injured. Many of the protesters, driving tractors, reached the Red Fort while some of them hoisted religious flags on its domes and the flagstaff at the ramparts, where the national flag is unfurled by the prime minister on Independence Day. On Friday, the Delhi Police had issued an appeal in leading newspapers asking people to share any evidence or information about the violence. "All members of the public, including media persons, who are witnesses to the incidents or have any information about the incident or have captured any activity on their mobile phones or camera, are hereby requested to come forward and give their statements/footage/picture in their possession at room number 215, second floor, Old Delhi Police Headquarters, ITO during office hours, on any working day or contact on 8750871237 or 011-23490094 or send e-mail on kisanandolanriots.26jain2021@gmmail.com," the appeal stated.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-376
30-01-2021||India||MHA orders suspension of internet at Delhi borders||The Ministry of Home Affairs (MHA) has temporarily suspended internet services at the Singhu, Ghazipur, and Tikri borders, where farmers have been protesting against the new agri laws, an official said on Saturday. Apart from the three borders of Delhi, internet services will remain suspended in their adjoining areas too.This will be effective from 11 pm of January 29 to 11 pm of January 31, the official said. The decision has been taken to “maintain public safety and averting public emergency” under Temporary Suspension of Telecom Services (Public Emergency or Public Safety) Rules 2017, the official said. In a notification quoted by NDTV, the home ministry said, “...it is necessary and expedient to order the temporary suspension of internet services in the areas of Singhu, Ghazipur and Tikri, and their adjoining areas in the NCT of Delhi from 11 pm on January 29 to 11 pm on January 31.” On Friday, the Haryana government has also suspended internet services in as many as 17 districts till 5 pm. These restrictions come after January 26, when large scale violence was reported during the farmers’ tractor rally, internet services were temporarily suspended in some parts of Delhi. The tractor parade on Tuesday that was to highlight the demand of the protesting farmer unions for a repeal of three new agriculture laws turned violent as the protesters deviated from the pre-designated routes, attacked police personnel, overturned vehicles and hoisted a religious flag on the ramparts of the iconic Red Fort. The police issued lookout notices against farmer leaders on Thursday and announced a probe into the “conspiracy” behind the Republic Day violence. The police have so far registered 33 FIRs in connection with the violence and issued lookout notices against 44 people, including most of the farmer leaders.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-376
30-01-2021||India||Collegium rescinds nod to 'skin verdict' judge of Bombay HC ||The Supreme Court Collegium is understood to have withdrawn its approval to a proposal for the appointment of an additional judge of the Bombay High Court, Justice P V Ganediwala, as a permanent judge of the court following her two controversial verdicts in sexual assault cases. The decision was taken after the judge faced flak for her interpretation of sexual assault under the Protection of Children from Sexual Offences (POCSO) Act, a source said. Justice Pushpa Ganediwala recently acquitted a man accused of groping a 12-year-old girl's breast because he did not make skin-to-skin contact and days earlier, ruled that holding the hands of a five-year-old girl and unzipping the trousers do not amount to "sexual assault" under the POCSO Act. On January 27, the Supreme Court stayed the Bombay High Court order acquitting the man after Attorney General K K Venugopal said the order would set a dangerous precedent. The collegium headed by Chief Justice S A Bobde, at a meeting held on January 20, had okayed the proposal for making Justice Ganediwala a permanent judge. In two other judgments this month, Justice Ganediwala acquitted two men accused of raping minor girls after noting that the testimonies of the victims did not inspire confidence to fix criminal liability on the accused. "No doubt the testimony of the prosecutrix (victim) is sufficient for conviction of the accused. However, the same ought to inspire confidence of this court. It ought to be of sterling quality," she said in one of the judgments. Justice Pushpa Virendra Ganediwala was born on March 3, 1969 at Paratwada in Maharashtra's Amravati district. She was a panel advocate for various banks and insurance companies and was also an honorary lecturer in various colleges of Amravati and gave lectures to the MBA and LLM students of the Amravati University. She was directly appointed as a district judge in 2007 and was elevated as an additional judge of the Bombay High Court on February 13, 2019. Besides the CJI, justices N V Ramana and R F Nariman are part of the three-member collegium, which takes decisions with regard to high court judges.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-376
30-01-2021||India||Farm leaders on day-long fast on Gandhi's death anniversary||Farmer leaders agitating against the Centre's new agri laws are observing 'Sadbhavana Diwas' on Mahatma Gandhi's death anniversary on Saturday and holding a day-long fast at the various protest sites. Farmer leader Abhimanyu Kohar, a senior member of Samkyukt Kisan Morcha -- an umbrella body of farmer unions -- said the ongoing agitation will gain strength as farmers in large numbers will join them in coming days. During a press conference on Friday, the leaders slammed the ruling BJP at the Centre and accused it of trying to "destroy" their "peaceful" agitation. The farmer leaders claimed that the number of agitators at all the protest venues including Ghazipur, Singhu and Tikri borders is swelling after the police allegedly tried to remove farmer leader Rakesh Tikait from Ghazipur border on Thursday night. Tikait’s emotional outburst in the face of an eviction order and massive force deployment led to a spontaneous mobilisation of people from several hundred miles away through the night. By Friday morning, a depleted and dispirited protest site on the Delhi-Uttar Pradesh border was throbbing with a much bigger and boisterous crowd, ever more resolved to stand up to any bullying tactics.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-377
30-01-2021||India||President, PM pays tribute to Gandhi on his death anniversary||The nation on Saturday remembered Mahatma Gandhi on his 73rd death anniversary with President Ram Nath Kovind, Vice President M Venkaiah Naidu and Prime Minister Narendra Modi leading the country in paying homage to the Father of the Nation. President Kovind, Vice President Naidu, Prime Minister Modi and Defence Minister Rajnath Singh, among others, also paid floral tributes to Mahatma Gandhi at Raj Ghat in Delhi. Gandhi was shot dead on this day in 1948 by Nathuram Godse. His death anniversary is observed as Martyrs' Day. Paying tributes to Mahatma Gandhi, Kovind said people should adhere to his ideals of peace, non-violence, simplicity, purity of means, and humility. "On behalf of a grateful nation, my humble tributes to the Father of the Nation, Mahatma Gandhi who embraced martyrdom this day. We should adhere to his ideals of peace, non-violence, simplicity, purity of means and humility. Let us resolve to follow his path of truth and love," he tweeted. On Twitter, Naidu shared a quote of Mahatma Gandhi - "Ahimsa is the highest duty. Even if we cannot practice it in full, we must try to understand its spirit and refrain as far as is humanly possible from violence." "Gandhiji was a crusader of peace, non-violence & selfless service. Both, through his words and actions, he left an indelible imprint on the sands of time. He inspired countless people worldwide to follow the path of ahimsa," Naidu said. "Mahatma Gandhi worked relentlessly for the uplift of the vulnerable sections, downtrodden and socially backward. Gandhiji's glorious life and principles continue to inspire the entire world. As we remember him, let us emulate his teachings and resolve to follow the path shown by him," he said in another tweet. Paying homage to Mahatma Gandhi, Modi said his ideals continue to motivate millions "Tributes to the great Bapu on his Punya Tithi. His ideals continue to motivate millions. On Martyrs' Day we recall the heroic sacrifices of all those great women and men who devoted themselves towards India's freedom and the well-being of every Indian," he said in a tweet. Delhi Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal also paid tributes to Mahatma Gandhi, saying his principles of truth and non-violence are still relevant through which any struggle for rights can be won. "Truth, non-violence, patience, bravery and 'Satyagrah'. These principles of Gandhiji that rendered ineffective bigger powers are relevant even today, through which any struggle for rights can be won," he tweeted in Hindi. In his tribute to Mahatma Gandhi on Twitter, Congress leader Rahul Gandhi shared a quote of the Father of the Nation - "Truth stands, even if there be no public support. It is self-sustained". Congress general secretary Priyanka Gandhi Vadra paid homage to Mahatma Gandhi, remembering that he had said the "ruler who defies public opinion is cruel and any unjust law is a form of violence in itself". "Gandhiji was killed with the purpose of killing his ideas. But Gandhiji's 'Satyagraha' is the strength of the whole country and it is our responsibility," she tweeted in Hindi. CPI(M) general secretary Sitaram Yechury said, "We must never forget the forces that assassinated the Father or the Nation - Mahatma Gandhi. The ideology of hate and fratricide that killed him will never be allowed to succeed." "Its inheritors will be fought and pushed back," he said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-377
30-01-2021||India||India logs more than 13,000 cases, 137 casualties in a day||With 13,083 fresh cases, India's COVID-19 tally has gone up to 1,07,33,131, while 1,04,09,160 patients have recuperated so far, pushing the national recovery rate to 96.98 per cent, the health ministry said on Saturday. The viral disease has claimed 137 more lives in the country in a span of 24 hours and the death toll now stands at 1,54,147, it added. There are 1,69,824 active coronavirus cases in the country currently, which account for only 1.58 per cent of the total number of cases, the ministry's data updated at 8 am showed. The COVID-19 case fatality rate stood at 1.44 per cent, it stated. According to the ICMR, a total of 19,58,37,408 samples have so far been tested for the viral disease across the country, including 7,56,329 on Friday. India's COVID-19 tally had crossed the 20-lakh mark on August 7 last year, the 30-lakh mark on August 23 and the 40-lakh mark on September 5. It went past 50 lakh on September 16, 60 lakh on September 28, 70 lakh on October 11, 80 lakh on October 29, 90 lakh on November 20 and the one-crore mark on December 19. The 137 latest fatalities include 56 from Maharashtra, 22 from Kerala, 11 from Punjab, seven from West Bengal, six from Delhi and four from Uttar Pradesh. Of the total 1,54,147 COVID-19 deaths reported so far in the country, Maharashtra accounts for the highest number of 51,000, followed by Tamil Nadu (12,345), Karnataka (12,211), Delhi (10,841), West Bengal (10,155), Uttar Pradesh (8,646), Andhra Pradesh (7,152), Punjab (5,601) and Gujarat (4,385). The health ministry stressed that more than 70 per cent of the COVID-19 deaths in the country occurred due to comorbidities. "Our figures are being reconciled with the Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR)," the ministry said on its website, adding that a state-wise distribution of the figures is subject to further verification and reconciliation.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-377
30-01-2021||India||Delhi experiences slight rise in minimum temperature||The minimum temperature in the national capital rose slightly to 5.4 degrees Celsius on Saturday, but is likely to dip again on Sunday, the India Meteorological Department said. Cold wave conditions had prevailed in Delhi on Friday with the minimum temperature settling at 4 degrees Celsius, five notches below normal. A cold wave is predicted on Sunday, too. In the plains, the IMD declares a cold wave if the minimum temperature dips to 4 degrees Celsius. A severe cold wave is when the minimum is 2 degrees Celsius or less. The minimum temperature on Tuesday and Thursday had settled at 2.1 degrees Celsius and 3.8 degrees Celsius, respectively, due to the cold and dry northwesterly winds barrelling through the plains, the IMD said. Delhi had recorded a "cold day" on Sunday with the maximum temperature dropping to 15 degrees Celsius, six notches below normal and the lowest this month. On New Year's Day, the city had recorded a minimum of 1.1 degrees Celsius, the lowest for the month in 15 years.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-377
30-01-2021||India||Kunal Kamra to SC: No one beyond criticism||Comedian Kunal Kamra has told the Supreme Court in an affidavit that “to believe any institution of power in a democracy is beyond criticism is like saying migrants need to find their way back home during an ill-planned, nationwide lockdown: it is irrational and undemocratic”. The affidavit was filed in response to a notice asking why contempt proceedings should not be initiated against him for his tweets about the judiciary. Excerpts: “Some people who did not find my tweets funny have approached this court seeking that I be prosecuted…. “I believe there need be no defence for jokes. Jokes are based on a comedian’s perception, which they use to make the audience that shares that perception laugh. These jokes are not reality, and don’t claim to be so. Most people do not react to jokes that don’t make them laugh; they ignore them like our political leaders ignore their critics.” Kamra’s affidavit continued: “Through my work, I attempt to abide by comedy’s tenet of comforting the afflicted, and afflicting the comfortable. “Take for instance the joke ‘Behind every successful Indian businessman there is a nationalised bank’. The humour attempts to blunt the grimness of the situation, and offers a measure of comfort to the afflicted, including the families of citizens who find themselves unable to withdraw their hard-earned money from their bank accounts. “Jokes like these at best make the comfortable squirm in their plush chairs, even as they sit secure in the knowledge that a joke cannot make the heavens fall. “My tweets were not published with the intention of diminishing the faith of the people in the highest court of our democracy…. The suggestion that my tweets could shake the foundations of the most powerful court in the world is an overestimation of my abilities. “Just as the Supreme Court values the faith the public places in it (and seeks to protect it by the exercise of its criminal contempt jurisdiction), it should also trust the public not to form its opinions of the court on the basis of a few jokes on Twitter. The public’s faith in the judiciary is found(ed) on the institution’s own actions, and not on any criticism or commentary about it…. “Judges of our constitutional court are amongst the most powerful people in our country. They have extraordinary powers over the fundamental rights and lives of citizens of this country, and their office and tenure are constitutionally protected to shield them from political interference. “However, I believe that constitutional offices — including judicial offices — know no protection from jokes. I do not believe that any high authority, including judges, would find themselves unable to discharge their duties only on account of being the subject of satire or comedy. “Irreverence and hyperbole are essential tools for the comedic enterprise. A comic raises questions on issues of public interest in their own unique way. The language and style I resort to are not with the intention of insult, but to draw attention to and prompt an engagement with issues that I believe are relevant to our democracy and which have also been raised in the public domain by more serious and learned commentators. “Comedy does not permit an artist the luxury of articulating the basis of jokes through long, nuanced essays or measured prose. Brevity… continues to be the soul of comedy (and Twitter — with its 280 character limit)…. “We are witnessing an assault on the freedom of speech and expression, with comedians like Munawar Farooqi being jailed for jokes that they have not even made, and school students being interrogated for sedition. “At such a time, I hope that this court will demonstrate that the freedom of speech and expression is a cardinal constitutional value, and recognise that the possibility of being offended is a necessary incident to the exercise of this right. “Should powerful people and institutions continue to show an inability to tolerate rebuke or criticism, we would be reduced to a country of incarcerated artists and flourishing lapdogs. If this court believes I have crossed a line and wants to shut down my Internet indefinitely, then I too will write Happy Independence Day postcards every 15th August, just like my Kashmiri friends.” In the affidavit filed on Thursday, Kamra said he would respect the court’s decision. “I will not vilify this bench or the Supreme Court in this matter specifically because that would actually be contempt of court.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-377
30-01-2021||India||Kisan Parade: diversion allegation to lead marchers towards Red Fort||A group of Calcuttans who had driven to Delhi to participate in the Kisan Parade on Republic Day have alleged the police set up “selective barricades” on the designated routes to “divert” marchers towards the Red Fort. The Calcuttans saw police barricades in at least two places that they said were part of the scheduled routes for the tractor rally: under a footbridge near the Majnu Ka Tilla gurdwara and near Nangloi Chowk in west Delhi, some 3km from the Tikri border. “The police stopped the marchers from proceeding along the designated routes. This infuriated many participants, some of whom then headed towards the Red Fort,” said Ranjit Singh, 51. “The rallies had thousands of participants, and those at the tail were confused about the directions. In hindsight, it seems to have been a ploy by the police to instigate chaos and violence.” Ranjit and his group of 19 had left Calcutta in four cars on January 24 and reached Singhu on Tuesday morning. They returned to Calcutta on Friday evening. Around noon on Republic Day, a rally from the Singhu border that the group was part of reached the Majnu Ka Tilla gurdwara only to be met with police barricades. The rally had hundreds of tractors and thousands of marchers, among them elderly men and women, Ranjit said. The Calcuttans were in their cars at the rear of the march. “The marchers asked the police why the route had been barricaded. There was a heated argument that led to a brawl. Some of the marchers at the head of the rally broke through the barricade and headed towards the Red Fort, around 6km from the gurdwara,” Ranjit said. He spoke of “a massive police deployment” on a footbridge at the spot and the road below. “As soon as the clash started, the cops started firing smoke canisters from the bridge,” Ranjit said. The alleged police assault prompted the members of the Calcutta contingent to leave the site and join another rally, coming from the Tikri border. A large police team met the rally near Nangloi Chowk in west Delhi. “The marchers were supposed to take a U-turn from the site and head back towards the Tikri border. But the police set up barricades before they could take the U-turn,” said Inderdeep Singh, 30, resident of Deodar Street in Ballygunge. “The angry marchers broke the barricades. Within minutes, the police came charging in.” A short clip shared by Ranjit, taken apparently from a flyover at Nangloi Chowk, shows thousands of marchers on the road below, some on tractors, cars or two-wheelers and some walking barefoot. A large number of Tricolours are seen fluttering. The high-decibel slogans against the Narendra Modi government are halted by scores of marauding policemen in riot gear, who are seen charging in and wielding their batons to disperse the protesters. The Calcuttans returned to the Singhu border in the evening. Internet connectivity was suspended at most places in Delhi for most of the day. But word spread soon that television and social media were highlighting the Red Fort breach and the violence rather than the largely peaceful movement. “Many of the farmers were bruised. But they were more hurt by the attempts to malign the movement. They also rued the role of the agents the government had planted to discredit the campaign,” Ranjit said. While accepting moral responsibility and regretting the violence and the breach of the Red Fort, the Samyukta Kisan Morcha — under whose banner the tractor rally was held — has accused the Modi-Shah duopoly of orchestrating the violence through their agents to defame the movement. Members of the Calcutta group said they would take back memories of the goodwill and friendship they witnessed among the protesters rather than those of the sporadic violence. They said they had received a warm welcome at the Singhu border, with the farmers elated at receiving moral support from “Bangaal”. “We spent close to 48 hours at the Singhu border. We saw hundreds of residents — auto drivers, labourers and street dwellers — eating at the langars. Nobody who came to Singhu went back hungry,” said Ravi Saha, another member of the Calcutta group. An octogenarian woman from Punjab won his heart in particular. “She had been camping at Singhu for days. Every day, she would prepare rotis for hundreds of people,” Saha, a trader in fans and their spare parts, said. He said the woman told him: “My time is nearly up, but I cannot desert the fight for the future.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-377
30-01-2021||India||Groups chanting 'goli maaro…' attack farmers at Singhu border||Groups chanting “goli maaro…” attacked farmers at the Singhu border on Friday, demanding they vacate the protest site because they had “insulted” the national flag on Republic Day, as policemen stood watching. One of the men in the group had the Tricolour crumpled up in his fist as he charged towards the farmers. The men, who claimed to be Singhu residents, wielded sticks and threw stones at the protesters, who have been sitting on a peaceful dharna on Delhi’s borders for two months to seek the repeal of three new farm laws. “They are not locals but hired goons. They were throwing stones and petrol bombs at us. They attempted to burn down our trolleys also,” PTI quoted farmer Harkirat Mann Beniwal, 21, as saying. The attack came a day after farmers at Ghazipur thwarted an eviction attempt. A group claiming to be locals chanted slogans against the protesters at Tikri too. The chaos during the Republic Day tractor rally, when some protesters clashed with police and a group hoisted the Nishan Sahib and a peasant union flag on an empty flag pole at Red Fort, had eroded public support for the movement and demoralised the farmers. But the heavy-handed action at Ghazipur border, where the administration cut off water and power supply and ordered the protesters to vacate, and Friday’s attack at Singhu where the so-called locals chanted the slogan “goli maaro… (shoot them down)” that was the clarion call for the Delhi riots last year have angered the farmers, instead of cowing them down, and infused new energy into the movement. These have also encouraged farmer union leaders to name the RSS-BJP as the villains. Union leader Yudhveer Singh said: “We do not need lectures on nationalism from those who had refused to hoist the national flag at their headquarters till some years ago. Farmers send their children to the border to fight and have received their bodies draped in the Tricolour.” Until now, most union leaders had been careful about only discussing the farm laws and not getting into the politics, but the “conspiracy” to malign them and weaken their movement appears to have forced a change in stand. According to the union leaders, the government and the BJP-RSS were not only trying to sabotage the farmers’ movement, but were also attempting to divide the farming community along religious lines. Alleging that a group had held a protest at Gurdwara Sis Ganj in Chandni Chowk, veteran union leader Balbir Singh Rajewal said the government was trying to turn this into a “Hindu-Sikh” issue. Some of the union leaders admitted the ploy had almost worked after the Nishan Sahib was hoisted at the Red Fort and BJP leaders flooded social media with pictures. Some people falsely alleged that the Tricolour had been displaced. The Haryana contingent of farmers was apparently upset, seeing it as a bid by the Sikh farmers to give the protest a communal colour. But the crackdown on Ghazipur on Thursday pushed back these concerns as farmers once again felt the need to rally together. On Thursday night, two BJP MLAs from Ghaziabad had been seen at the Ghazipur border with a group of “locals”, demanding that the farmers vacate the site. At Singhu, the “locals” were able to enter the protest arena despite additional barricading since Thursday, and threw stones at the protesters in front of the police. This triggered a retaliation. The large police force eventually intervened, firing tear smoke canisters and resorting to a lathicharge. Delhi police station house officer Pradeep Paliwal was left with a bleeding hand when he intervened in a clash between a sword-wielding protester and the alleged locals. A police officer said some farmers and policemen had been injured. The police have detained 43 people, including the man wielding the sword. Although the crowd of “locals” did not have any known face of the BJP, their slogans were similar. “Goli maaro” was a slogan some BJP leaders had chanted last year. As the call to proceed towards Delhi spread like wildfire, the Haryana administration ordered a clampdown on Internet services across the state till Saturday evening, drawing criticism from the farmers who see it as yet another part of government repression against them as it comes in the face of attempts to cut off facilities to the protest sites.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-377
30-01-2021||India||Rahul Gandhi asks farmers not to yield an inch to govt coercion||Congress leader Rahul Gandhi on Friday warned the government against using conspiracies and coercion to break the farmers’ resolve as the entire country was supporting their cause and urged the peasants not to yield an inch. After boycotting the presidential address to the joint session of Parliament and demonstrating in front of Mahatma Gandhi’s statue along with other Opposition MPs, Rahul told a media conference: “You cannot frighten the farmers by deployment of forces, arranging stone-pelting and hatching conspiracies to defame them. The entire country is standing with them. What is being done to the farmers is absolutely criminal. You are beating them, you are threatening them, you are bullying them, and you are trying to discredit them.” Insisting that nothing except scrapping of the three new farm laws would solve the crisis, Rahul said: “The government needs to talk to the farmers. It needs to give a solution to the farmers and the only solution, as I have said again and again and again, is repealing these laws and throwing them into the waste-paper basket. The government must not think that the farmers will go home. My concern is that this situation is going to spread. We do not need this situation to spread; that will be bad for the country.” Asked about the Red Fort fiasco during the tractor rally on Republic Day, the Congress leader said: “Who allowed those people to enter the Red Fort? Is it not the task of the home ministry to ensure nobody entered the Red Fort? Who is responsible? Ask the home minister what was the idea behind allowing them.” In response to another question on Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s silence on the farm protest, Rahul said: “As I have said in a speech in Kerala, this is the biggest transfer of wealth from the largest number of people to the smallest number of people. You have seen what happened during Covid. During Covid, the poor have got poorer and a handful of rich people, five-six rich people have just got richer and richer. This anger that you are seeing among the farmers, this is that anger that five people, seven people have everything, we have nothing. What belonged to us is also being snatched. Modi works for these five-six persons. He did note-bandi for them, GST for them. He is now destroying the farmers. What will he say?” Rahul urged the farmers not to yield an inch and assured them that the entire Opposition was standing with them. “So far, the farmers of every state haven’t fully understood the depth of the crisis. The Prime Minister must not presume this movement will end. This will spread to unemployed youths. This will cause huge damage. Scrap the laws now. This instability is not good for the country,” he said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-377
30-01-2021||India||President Ram Nath Kovind defends farm laws in Parliament||President Ram Nath Kovind on Friday defended the new farm laws as beneficial for the majority and condemned the “dishonouring” of the Tricolour and Republic Day, making an oblique allusion to the farmers’ tractor rally. Addressing the customary joint sitting of Parliament on the first day of the budget session, Kovind spoke at length on the farm sector as the government benches thumped their desks and the few Opposition MPs present protested. Most Opposition parties had boycotted the President’s address in protest at the government’s “insensitive” treatment of the agitating farmers. Some MPs such as former BJP ally Hanuman Beniwal, Congress member Ravneet Singh and Aam Aadmi Party members chanted slogans and demanded the repeal of the new farm laws. Punjab MP Ravneet, whose party boycotted the event, wanted to be present to register his protest. Seated in the Central Hall, he chanted “Jai kisan, jai jawan (Hail the farmer, hail the soldier)” in the middle of the President’s address and demanded the withdrawal of the contentious laws. Rajasthan MP Beniwal and AAP members protested from the Lower and Upper House. The AAP members later posted videos of their protest. The President’s address reflects the voice of the central government, which prepares the speech and has it approved by the cabinet. “After extensive consultations, Parliament approved three important farm reform bills seven months ago,” the President said. “The benefits of these three important farm reforms started reaching more than 10 crore small farmers instantly.” Kovind said these 10 crore-odd farmers with landholdings of one or two hectares made up 80 per cent of the community, and that the government “accords priority to these small and marginal farmers too”. Kovind referred to the farmers’ tractor rally, saying: “The recent acts of dishonouring the national flag and showing disrespect to the auspicious occasion of Republic Day are unfortunate.” Some participants in the tractor rally had not taken the designated route and had instead swarmed into the Red Fort, where some of them hoisted the Sikh pennant Nishan Sahib and a farmer union flag from an empty pole. The Tricolour atop the fort was not touched. Farmer leaders have alleged a government conspiracy, saying the security forces deliberately spread confusion about the route and did nothing to stop the storming of the Red Fort. The government has used the Red Fort breach to crack down on the protesters and farmer union leaders. Kovind dwelt on what the government claims are measures to increase the farmers’ income, prompting Prime Minister Modi and other ministers to break into applause.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-377
30-01-2021||India||Farmers protest: How Ghazipur turned from despair to new hope||Television images of a peasant leader’s teardrops at the Ghazipur border on Thursday night helped galvanise the protesting farmers and their supporters, turning desolation into sudden determination and stalling a government plan to throw them out by intimidation or force. Bharatiya Kisan Union leader Rakesh Tikait’s emotional outburst in the face of an eviction order and massive force deployment led to a spontaneous mobilisation of people from several hundred miles away through the night. By Friday morning, a depleted and dispirited protest site on the Delhi-Uttar Pradesh border was throbbing with a much bigger and boisterous crowd, ever more resolved to stand up to any bullying tactics. A pall had earlier descended on the site in the face of the eviction order served by the Yogi Adityanath administration and a heavy police and paramilitary build-up that triggered speculation of a midnight swoop. With the crowds having thinned since the Republic Day controversy and the remaining protesters demoralised by the authorities’ attempts to use the Red Fort breach to blacken the movement, it looked like a cakewalk for the police. Senior bureaucrats from the Meerut division had arrived and ordered Tikait to clear the site by midnight. Tikait, younger son of the late farmer leader Mahendra Singh Tikait, appeared to have buckled under the pressure. He flared up, screaming about the presence of BJP politicians and their armed supporters who he said were beating the farmers. Breaking down before the television cameras, he said: “Now the BJP goons will beat up the farmers. I know what will happen after my arrest. I’m not going anywhere now; I shall commit suicide.” Tikait went on: “Electricity and water supply have been disconnected. The government wants to kill the farmers. I’m not going to drink water till I get water from my village.” The impassioned speech seemed to electrify his supporters and farmers across swathes of Uttar Pradesh. Within minutes, thousands of farmers had assembled at Tikait’s home in Sisauli village of Muzaffarnagar district, with appeals made to reach Ghazipur as soon as possible. A hurriedly called mahapanchayat of farmers sent out a message to the Adityanath government that the situation might slip out of hand. Thousands ventured out in the cold winter night towards Ghazipur. The protesters at the site said at least 5,000 people had joined them by early Friday morning, and the stream of arriving tractors and cars was continuing through the day. Reports spoke of bigger convoys heading towards the protest site but slowed down by hurdles put up by the Adityanath government. The Bijnor administration had allegedly blocked thousands of agitation supporters, whom the police were trying to browbeat with threats. The tenor of the discussions at Ghazipur seemed to have changed, too, with the farm laws taking a backseat to talk of the BJP’s “cruelty” and the need to save the country from “tanashahi (dictatorship)”. Satwant Singh Bains, who just arrived on Friday from Bajpur village in Udhamsingh Nagar, Uttarakhand, told The Telegraph of the emotions he felt when he saw Tikait weeping on television. “I had a sinking feeling when I saw Tikait sahib weeping. Television channels were calling the farmers terrorists, and such a heavy deployment of forces in the night looked frightening,” he said. “I wanted to come here immediately, but my family pleaded with me not to. My 94-year-old mother said this cruel government would not spare anyone. “So I waited till 11.30pm for her to fall asleep. Then I took my car and drove 250km to arrive here at 4.30am. I now feel relaxed seeing thousands coming. I had been here since December but left after I fell ill. I’m not going anywhere now.” Sukhwinder, who works in Noida, said he used to come here on Sundays to express his solidarity. He said he felt a surge of emotion on Thursday night and travelled to Ghazipur with his friends. He sent a text message to his employer in the morning, seeking leave for a few days to be here. A senior executive with a private firm who didn’t want to reveal his name said: “I’m not a farmer. But I eat. I didn’t like the Red Fort conspiracy and when I learnt of the eviction threat last night, I decided to come here.” He continued: “This government treats everybody as its enemy; every section of society is terrorised. Governments do commit mistakes but they never work on an agenda to suppress and control citizens.” He said he once supported the BJP but no longer. “I supported the BJP because I felt religion should have a moral oversight on politics. Now I’m distressed as a devout Hindu that religious leaders and saints are not berating Modi for traversing this path,” he said. “Adani and Ambani can build a statue to Modi in gold but people will never remember him fondly, never respect him after all this.” Pramod Kumar, a sugarcane farmer from Hapur, western Uttar Pradesh, said: “It is now a fight against tanashahi. From diesel prices to these laws, the intention is to weaken the farmers. “I don’t understand how potatoes sold at Rs 50 a kilo when farmers didn’t have the crop and businessmen had the stocks in cold storage. Now the farmers’ crop is ready, and potatoes are selling at Rs 10 a kg. “If unlimited storage is allowed, big corporate houses will manipulate the prices. Modi is at war with the farmers on behalf of the corporate sector. What can be more unfortunate?” Tikait seemed in a different mood on Friday in the presence of the huge crowds. He told the farmers from the dais: “Don’t misbehave with the media. Kalam, camera aur kisan par bandook ka pehra hai (The pen, TV camera and the farmers are under the watch of the gun). The reporters are doing whatever they can to help us. Please raise both hands and promise you will maintain peace.” Thursday night’s defeatism, when Tikait had talked of committing suicide, had given way to hope, even a swagger. “Farmers will write the destiny of India. Ham hi jawan, ham hi kisan (We the farmers are the soldiers). Farmers will decide what has to be done with farming,” Tikait said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-377
30-01-2021||India||Protest axe on Odisha hospital guards ||The Nuapada district administration in Odisha has sacked three security guards of a hospital and issued showcause notices to 14 others after they staged a protest demanding adequate financial assistance to the family of their colleague who died on January 26, three days after taking a Covid-19 vaccine shot. The guards, who are employed at the district headquarters hospital at Nuapada, were expressing solidarity with the family of their 25-year-old colleague Nanikram Keut who passed away three days after being administered the vaccine. Doctors had said that Nanikram, posted at the hospital for the past 13 months, appeared “perfectly healthy” and had no history of pre-existing health disorders prior to the vaccination. Nanikram was to get married next month. The guards had been deployed at the hospital by a security agency. Sources said the Nuapada collector had asked the security agency to fire the protesting guards. The district administration has been consistently maintaining that Nanikram’s death was not caused by the side-effects of the vaccine. “The entire administration was perturbed following the negative publicity generated by the news about the death of a security guard because of the vaccine. The action taken by the administration is a reaction to the development,” said a senior official. Nuapada chief district medical officer K.P. Behera told The Telegraph: “After the death of security guard Nanikram on January 26, his colleagues lodged a protest. The action has been taken on disciplinary grounds according to the direction of the higher authorities.” Behera said Nanikram had died because of a blood-related disease. “We have the post-mortem report. He did not die because of the vaccine. His death was caused by some disorder which needs to be studied closely. He was alright before taking the vaccine,” he said. A senior official of the security agency told this newspaper: “Even if their colleague had died, the security guards should not have protested. They should have come to us for a discussion. We have an agreement with the government.” The security agency in its termination letter accused the guards of conspiracy, degrading the values and ethics of the company, misbehaving with senior staff, creating unhealthy atmosphere in the work area, gross irregularities and neglect of duty, acting in a manner prejudicial to the interests of the company or the government and violation of the rules and procedures of the company. It also said that the guards were illegally demanding some financial help from the chief minister’s relief fund under the leadership of an outsider while being on duty. Garib Sena, a non-political outfit working for the cause of the poor, threatened to launch an agitation over the action against the guards. “They are poor people. What’s their fault? They were demanding financial help for the family members of their colleague who died three days after being vaccinated. The government should take a lenient view of the matter. If the termination order is not withdrawn, we will launch an agitation including road blockade,” said its president Ravi Mangaraj.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-378
30-01-2021||India||Elderly farmer at Ghazipur pledges to protest till law repeal||Unlike his two sons, Ilam Singh has never been in the army. Now, at the age of 97, he is ready to take a bullet. “Pehli goli hum khayenge, lekin ab yeh andolan nahin rukega agar krishi kanoon wapas nahin liya (I shall take the first bullet, but this movement will not stop until the farm laws have been repealed),” the Jat farmer from Muzaffarnagar told reporters at the Ghazipur protest site at 2am on Friday. He and many other protesters were up at that unearthly hour in the biting cold because a build-up of security forces had triggered rumours of an impending attack on the gathering of 50,000 people. However, the government reinforcements were withdrawn on Friday morning. “Kal hum ghabra gaye theh sarkar ki chalaki se, aaj hum jyada taqat ke sath yahan baithe hain (Yesterday, the government’s tricks scared us but today we are sitting here with more determination),” Ilam said. He was referring to the propaganda in the electronic media about the farmers “insulting the national flag” on Republic Day, when a group from the tractor rally had stormed the Red Fort and hoisted the Sikh pennant Nishan Sahib. Ilam, who had joined the two-month-old dharna on January 26 and taken part in Tuesday’s Kisan Parade, is being looked after by two middle-aged companions from his village. However, one of them had his right arm broken by the police during the tractor rally, the nonagenarian alleged. He said he would be up all night “to monitor everything and boost morale” in the face of a momentary confusion about the future of the Ghazipur protest. On Republic Day evening, the Yogi Adityanath administration had asked the protesting farmers at Ghazipur, Ghaziabad district, to leave and had cut off power and water. Currently, the protesters are bringing water on their tractors and have arranged for solar lights and large batteries. However, a piece of miscommunication about something that BKU (Tikait) president Naresh Tikait had said in Baghpat on Thursday resulted in a rumour that the dharna was being called off. Ilam said the langars that had been functioning round the clock for over two months suddenly began closing at 11pm on Thursday. But a couple of hours later, everything was back in place. “Any farmer or reporter who needs food or tea can visit our langars. There is free service. We have also made arrangements to charge the batteries of mobile phones and cameras,” Ilam said. “We have arranged for makeshift washrooms too. We have enough bedrolls and quilts for lakhs of people.” Told that the protesters now risked losing popular support because of the hoisting of the Nishan Sahib at the Red Fort on Republic Day, Ilam echoed the farmer leaders’ allegation that it was a government conspiracy to defame the movement. “Chowkidar wahin baitha tha aur chori ho gayi (The watchman was there and yet the theft happened),” he said. Farmer leaders have said there was heavy police and paramilitary deployment in and around the Red Fort but the personnel just stood and watched as a group approached the high-security structure and raised the pennant. The police are also accused of allowing — if not misdirecting — some tractors to veer off the designated route and approach the ITO, and then cracking down on those following the vanguard’s lead. Ilam said he wasn’t sure whether his tractor had violated the assigned route but said one of his two helpers was beaten up about half a kilometre from the ITO and had his right arm fractured. “The central government’s agents created the ruckus at the Red Fort under the supervision of the paramilitary forces. And Modi’s baton left many farmers injured,” he said. “Such treachery is strengthening our commitment to our children that we will not let the government control the way we farm.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-378
30-01-2021||India||Bihar Opp. plans human chain for protesting farmers ||The Opposition Grand Alliance in Bihar has announced plans to form a human chain across the state to express support for the farmers protesting at Delhi’s borders and challenged chief minister Nitish Kumar to speak up for the “annadata (food-giver)”. “We are asking Nitish Kumar why is he mum on the farmers’ protest? We want to ask him whether he supports the three black farm laws that affect 80 per cent of the people of the country. He is not even uttering two words on the issue. Why is he so helpless? The central government has brought these laws not for the annadata, but for the fund-data (fund-givers),” RJD leader Tejashwi Prasad Yadav said. The leader of the Opposition in the Assembly was speaking to journalists in Patna after chairing a meeting with the allies to discuss the formation of the human chain. All the members of the Grand Alliance — the RJD, Congress, CPI-ML, CPI and the CPM — will participate in the human chain that will be formed from 12:30pm to 1pm on Saturday. Apart from party members and supporters, common people have been urged to join the chain. Coordination committees have been formed in all 38 districts and preparations are going on in full swing to make the event a success. “This human chain will not mark the end of our support for the farmers. We will keep supporting them with our relentless struggle,” Tejashwi said. Nitish has had a way with human chains of record length over the recent years, forming them every January since 2017 in support of prohibition and environment protection, and against child marriage, dowry and other ills. Tejashwi asked Nitish to bring back the Agriculture Produce Market Committee (APMC) Act his government had repealed in 2006. He said the chief minister should say whether the scrapping of the act had benefited the farmers or harmed them instead. “The condition of the farmers in Bihar is miserable. They migrated to other states to work as labourers after the APMC Act was repealed. They never got the MSP (minimum support price) for their produce. The three new farm laws will now turn them from labourers to beggars,” the RJD leader said. He also attacked Nitish for being busy in “protecting his chair”, which has brought a stagnancy in the government and stalled development. “The chief minister is going to hike diesel prices in the state. This will further hurt the farmers. He is murdering democracy and implicating his opponents in false cases,” Tejashwi said. Congress Legislature Party leader Ajit Sharma pointed out that his party and Rahul Gandhi were standing firmly with the farmers and were determined to oppose the three controversial farm laws. “It’s time that the central government understands that the farmers do not want the new laws. The Congress is going to wage a struggle from the roads to Parliament to ensure that these black laws are repealed,” Sharma said. Later in the day, CPI-ML general secretary Dipankar Bhattacharya said Bihar and Uttar Pradesh would have to stand with Punjab and Haryana to ensure the victory of the protesting farmers. He also appealed to the common people to join the human chain.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-378
30-01-2021||India||Tractor rally: Mehbooba Mufti sees Kashmir template extended to other parts of country||Former chief minister Mehbooba Mufti on Friday accused the Narendra Modi government of exporting the Kashmir-specific template of “terrorising” people into “silence” to other parts of the country, holding up as examples the steps taken to quell the farmers’ protest and the anti-Citizenship Amendment Act movement earlier. Drawing attention to Delhi’s iron-fist policy while dealing with dissent in Kashmir, the People’s Democratic Party chief tweeted: “GOI’s template of terrorising Kashmiris into silence by using draconian laws & othering them is being extended to other parts of the country.” “Be it CAA or farmer law protests, both were termed anti-national & anti-terror laws like UAPA (were) invoked to quell these peaceful movements,” she added. Police have filed over two dozen cases against farmer leaders, journalists, politicians and activists for allegedly inciting violence on Republic Day. Several others are facing summons from the premier investigating agencies. Successive governments have often been accused of using brute force to deal with separatists and pro-azadi protesters, but the Modi dispensation has gone one step further and attempted to crush the Valley’s pro-India camp too. Three former chief ministers — Mehbooba, Farooq Abdullah and Omar Abdullah — were among thousands who were jailed in 2019 to prevent protests against the abrogation of Jammu and Kashmir’s special status. Delhi had unleashed the National Investigation Agency, the Enforcement Directorate and other agencies in the Valley to carry out daily raids to deny these leaders any breather. Similar tactics have also been used on those supporting the farmers’ movements, its leaders have alleged. In November, the NIA arrested key Mehbooba aide Waheed-ur-Rahman Parra and booked him in a terror case. He was granted bail early this month only to be arrested again by Jammu and Kashmir’s counter-insurgency wing. Mehbooba alleges that Waheed’s persecution by the Centre is emblematic of the situation that “Kashmiri politicians find themselves in today”. “Disliked and mistrusted by the people in Jammu and Kashmir for their faith in the Indian Constitution on one hand and punished by the Centre for not toeing their line on the other,” Mehbooba recently said of these leaders. The former chief minister has fiercely supported the farmers in their fight against the new farm laws and has sought their repeal. Mehbooba says the NIA is being unleashed on farmer unions, the way it was done in the Valley. “The rot that has set into India’s premier terror investigative agency can be gauged from the manner in which they are fabricating charges on Kashmiris, farmers and those who dare to dissent,” she said recently. Referring to the chaos in Delhi on Republic Day, Mehbooba alleged that it was orchestrated to defame the farmers. Without naming actor Deep Sidhu, accused by several farmer leaders of inciting violence, Mehbooba said he was a BJP aide. “We saw on TV what happened on Republic Day. The man who did it is an aide of the BJP. He has been with the Prime Minister, the home minister and campaigned for the BJP during Sunny Deol’s election,” Mehbooba told reporters in Jammu. She said the farm laws were against the fundamental rights and the bills were passed without consulting the farmers.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-378
30-01-2021||India||CBI raids grain godowns in Punjab and Haryana||The CBI conducted raids on around 30 godowns in Punjab and 10 in Haryana and seized samples of rice and wheat stocks, amid the ongoing agitation against the new farm laws by farmers mostly from the two states. The raids started late on Thursday night and continued till Friday evening. Multiple teams of the CBI along with CRPF personnel swooped down on the godowns. The godowns that were raided include those belonging to the Punjab Grains Procurement Corporation and the Food Corporation of India. Sources in the CBI said multiple teams of the agency conducted surprise checks at these premises in Punjab and Haryana following a large number of complaints of irregularities in FCI godowns. “The surprise checks were part of preventive vigilance,” said a CBI spokesperson. An agency official said CBI teams were checking the quantity and central pool foodgrain stocks in those godowns. “Samples of wheat and rice from the stocks of 2019-20 and 2020-21 have been collected from the godowns. The agency is checking the quantity and quality of foodgrains,” he said. The agency has got complaints that a section of FCI officials were involved in a racket that has led to the supply of sub-standard rice, the official said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-378
30-01-2021||India||Tractor rally: Editors Guild of India sound alarm at sedition case on journalists||Media collectives on Friday picked up cudgels for prominent members of the profession against whom the police of Uttar Pradesh and Madhya Pradesh have filed cases for their reporting on the tractor rally and the ensuing violence on Republic Day, demanding that the FIRs be withdrawn. The police of both states have registered FIRs for sedition and other offences against Congress MP Shashi Tharoor and six journalists, among others, for their tweets and comments about a farmer’s death on Tuesday. The Editors Guild of India, in a statement, condemned the intimidating manner in which the Uttar Pradesh and Madhya Pradesh police have registered FIRs against senior editors and journalists (including current and former office-bearers of the Guild). “The journalists have been specifically targeted for reporting the accounts pertaining to the death of one of the protesters on their personal social media handles as well as those of the publications they lead and represent. It must be noted that on the day of the protest and high action, several reports were emerging from eyewitnesses on the ground as well as from the police, and therefore it was only natural for journalists to report all the details as they emerged. This is in line with established norms of journalistic practice,’’ the statement said. Referring to the charge in the complaint that the tweets “were intentionally malicious and were the reason for the desecration of the Red Fort”, the Guild said: “Nothing can be further from truth.” They billed the FIRs as an attempt to intimidate, harass, browbeat and stifle the media.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-378
30-01-2021||India||Jobs lost to the pandemic may not be retrieved soon: Economic Survey||The jobs lost to the pandemic may not be retrieved soon, the Economic Survey tabled in Parliament on Friday says. The document says the lockdown disrupted local, regional and global supply chains and hit economic activity and the demand for consumption. It warns against falling into the trap of low wage growth and favours stimulating the economy through public investment packages. According to the document, the lockdown led to a lowering of demand in two ways: through disruption of the labour market, which affected household incomes, and through the precautionary motive to save arising from the uncertainty amid the health crisis. “As argued above, the Covid-19 pandemic has created a significant negative shock to demand. The various costs of financial distress that firms face even before potential bankruptcy… combined with possible firm bankruptcies in a choked bankruptcy system, on the one hand, and the possibility that jobs lost during the lockdown may not get fully retrieved, on the other hand, create the possibility of economic hysteresis that must be avoided at all costs,” the report says. The survey has not provided data on the job losses, but multiple agencies have. Prominent among them is the Centre for Monitoring Indian Economy, which says India lost a third of its white-collar jobs in the four months from May to August last year. An estimated 59 lakh jobs were lost during this period. “If we fail to stimulate the economy, we risk the temporary weakness in demand leading to lower potential growth,” the report says. It advocates multi-year public investment packages that would contribute to lifting the growth expectations. “At a time of excessive risk aversion in the private sector, which is characteristic of any economic crisis, risk-taking via public investment can catalyse private investment and unleash a virtuous circle,” the report says. “It will crowd in private investment, rather than crowd it out. Second, there is a risk of the Indian economy falling into a low wage-growth trap, as has happened in Japan during the last two decades.” Several academics have favoured more public spending on social welfare and infrastructure to stimulate the economy. Labour economist Santosh Mehrotra has suggested transferring money to poor households apart from investing in infrastructure. “To revive India’s growth story and to cash in on our rapidly closing demographic dividend window, essential features must be included in the Budget 2021,” he said. “This includes an increased expenditure in infrastructure and the health sector and an urban employment guarantee. There should be a minimum income guarantee of Rs 500 per month to poor households.” The Economic Survey suggests the government has a target of providing skill training to about eight lakh people, including migrant workers, under the Pradhan Mantri Kaushal Vikas Yojana 3.0. The migrants workers were among the worst sufferers of the suddenly announced lockdown, left without jobs and money and with many of them forced to walk hundreds of miles back home.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-378
30-01-2021||India||Blast near Israel embassy in Delhi||A very low-intensity blast took place near the Israeli embassy in central Delhi on Friday, barely 2km from where the Beating Retreat Ceremony was underway. No injury was reported. Delhi police said the low-intensity blast took place at 5.05pm. “A very low-intensity improvised device went off at 5.05pm near 5 APJ Abdul Kalam Road. There was no injury to any person, nor any damage to property. Windowpanes of three cars parked on a pavement were found to be damaged,” a spokesperson for Delhi police said. He said the blast “appears to be an act of mischief”. “Initial impressions suggest a mischievous attempt to create a sensation,” the spokesperson added. A preliminary probe revealed the bomb was planted on a flower pot on the pavement. “The area has been cordoned off. A forensic team has reached the spot to examine the explosive used for the blast. The CCTV footage from the area is being scanned to see who planted the explosive. Security has been tightened in and around the high-security area,” a police officer said. In a tweet, foreign minister S. Jaishankar said: “Spoke just now to Israeli FM @Gabi_Ashkenazi about the explosion outside the Israeli Embassy. We take this very seriously. Assured him of the fullest protection for the Embassy and Israeli diplomats. Matter is under investigation and no effort will be spared to find the culprits.” In February 2012, an Israeli diplomat’s wife was among four people injured in a blast after a magnetic bomb stuck to a vehicle went off in Delhi.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-378
