31-01-2021||India||Rahul says those who fear truth, arrest honest scribes||On Sunday, the Grand Old Party on Sunday slammed the BJP-led Centre over the arrest of a freelance journalist from the Singhu border with party leader Rahul Gandhi saying those who fear truth arrest honest scribes. Journalist Mandeep Punia was arrested from Singhu border on Sunday for allegedly misbehaving with the police personnel on duty at the farmers’ protest site there, officials said. A case was registered against him, following which he was, a senior police officer said, a day after the scribe was detained. Reacting to the development, former Congress chief Rahul Gandhi tweeted in Hindi, “Those who fear truth arrest honest journalists.” He also tagged a video purportedly showing Punia being held by police at the Singhu border. Congress general secretary Priyanka Gandhi Vadra said journalists covering the farmers’ movement are being arrested, cases are being slapped against them and the internet is being shut down in many places. “The BJP government wants to trample upon the voice of the farmers, but they have forgotten that the more you suppress, the more voices will rise against your atrocities,” she also tweeted in Hindi. Congress’ chief spokesperson Randeep Surjewala, in a tweet in Hindi, addressed PM Modi and said by slapping false cases at the BJP’s behest against journalists exposing the attack on farmers and shutting down mobile internet at protest sites, “you will not be able to suppress the farmers’ movement and shut out the country’s voice”. At a press conference, Congress spokesperson Supriya Shrinate hit out at the government, saying it is the 70th day of the farmers’ protest and they have been forced to sit at the borders by an “insensitive, obstinate and stubborn government that itself dug trenches and refused the farmers any entry in Delhi”. “For anybody who tries to show their plight, their pain, this government will go after them - whether it is people in social life, in political life or journalists. A very young journalist by the name Mandeep Punia was arrested and was presented before the court even before his Defence lawyer could reach,” she said, slamming the government over the scribe’s arrest. “We strongly condemn the sedition cases they have filed against our own MP Shashi Tharoor or the kind of sedition cases that have been filed against Mrinal Pande, Rajdeep Sardesai, Vinod Jose, Zafar Agha, Paresh Nath and Anant Nath,” Shrinate said. Tharoor and the six journalists have been booked by police, including in BJP-ruled states such as Uttar Pradesh and Madhya Pradesh, over their allegedly misleading tweets on the violence during the farmers’ tractor rally in Delhi on Republic Day. The Congress condemns it as these are the people who are trying to show the real face of the farmer, who are trying to bring to light the plight of the farmer and instead of standing with them and letting them do their jobs honestly, this government goes after them, she said. “I am not surprised that all this began in Uttar Pradesh. It had to begin in UP, because in UP to tell the truth, to open your mouth, to speak the truth will lead you to jail,” she said citing action against several journalists. Instead of going after the perpetrators, the culprits, they actually go after people, who bring truth to light, Shrinate said. “The Wire has been penalized, Siddharth Varadarajan faces the case as of yesterday because his platform showed what the slain farmer’s father had said,” she alleged. Referring to the Red Fort incident, Shrinate said the Congress is extremely upset with what happened on January 26 and the party stands in solidarity with “our forces, we stand in solidarity with the policemen, who have been hurt physically, but we would want to ask who fed them as fodder”. “Are they pawns in a conspiracy that the government tries to stitch,” she asked. “It has been 120 hours, people, who are responsible for demonising our farmers, people, who are responsible for the kind of incidents that we saw at the Red Fort are still at large and at some point the Home Minister will have to be answerable, the government and the prime minister will have to be answerable for all of this,” she said. Asked about the clash between ‘locals’ and farmers protesting at Delhi's Singhu border, Shrinate alleged that it was not locals but BJP leaders who have actually taken people at the protest sites against the farmers. “They are actually pelting stones, they are attacking the farmers and truth be told, the police has just been a silent bystander, a mute spectator, that is unacceptable,” she said. “We should stop demonizing the farmers, because this has been done at the behest of the BJP by their very own people and the farmers are not blocking the way, the farmers wanted to come and protest at Ramlila Ground very peacefully,” Shrinate said. Democracy is being “weakened” with every passing day and institutions are being “destroyed”, Shrinate said. Thousands of farmers, mostly from Haryana, Punjab and Uttar Pradesh, have been protesting at several border points into Delhi since November-end, demanding repeal of the three agri laws and a legal guarantee to the minimum support system for their crops. Meanwhile, earlier in the day, ahead of Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s Mann ki Baat programme, Rahul Gandhi cited a media report to attack the PM, saying in a tweet in Hindi, “Don’t be so scared, talk about China”.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-374
31-01-2021||India||Agri Minister Tomar counters Sharad Pawar's tweets on farm laws||Expressing dismay over Nationalist Congress Party (NCP) supremo Sharad Pawar’s tweets criticising the farm laws, Agriculture Minister Narendra Singh Tomar, said that they were a mix of “ignorance and misinformation” about the legislation, and hoped that the veteran leader would change his stand after knowing the “facts”. In a series of tweets, Pawar had said that the new agriculture laws of the Union government would adversely impact the Minimum Support Price (MSP) procurement and weaken the `Mandi' system, on Saturday. The tweets by Pawar ‑ who as the Agriculture Minister during the UPA period had pitched for these reforms - comes at a time when talks between the Centre and the 41 protesting farmers’ unions have reached a deadlock. Responding to the NCP leader’s remarks, Tomar said that Pawar, who is a veteran leader, is also considered to be well-versed with the issues and solutions related to agriculture. “Pawar himself tried hard to bring the same agriculture reforms earlier,” said Tomar “Since he speaks with some experience and expertise on the issue, it was dismaying to see his tweets employ a mix of ignorance and misinformation on the agriculture reforms. Let me take this opportunity to present some facts,” Tomar said on Twitter. The minister countered Pawar’s tweet which said that the amended Essential Commodities (EC) Act “may lead to apprehensions that corporates may purchase commodities at lower rates and stockpile and sell at higher prices to consumers”. “The apprehension has no basis. Under the EC Act, the central government can intervene in case of extraordinary circumstances including war, famine, extraordinary price rise and natural calamities of grave nature,” Tomar said. He maintained that the new laws encourage additional choice channels for farmers so that they can sell their produce to anyone, anywhere without any hassle in and outside the state to realise a competitive and better net price for their produce. “This doesn’t affect the current MSP (minimum support price) system,” he added. Under the new ecosystem, the minister said, the mandis would not get affected. Instead, they would become more competitive and cost-effective in terms of services and infrastructure; and both the systems would synergistically co-exist for the common interest of farmers. Tomar said: “As he (Pawar) is such a veteran leader, I would like to believe that he was genuinely misinformed of the facts. Now that he has the right facts, I hope he will also change his stand and also explain the benefits to our farmers.” Pawar, in his tweets on January 30, had expressed concern over the removal of stock limits on food commodities under the amended EC Act. “Stock piling limits have been removed on food grain, pulses, onion, potato, oilseeds etc. It may lead to apprehensions that Corporates may purchase commodities at lower rates and stock pile and sell at higher prices to consumers,” he had tweeted. The NCP chief also said that reform is a continuous process and no one would argue against the reforms in the APMCs or Mandi System. “...a positive argument on the same does not mean that it is done to weaken or demolish the system,” he noted. The government has offered some concessions including keeping the new farm laws on hold for 1-1.5 years and the Supreme Court has set up a panel to look into the matter keeping the contentious legislation in abeyance for two months. However, the agitating farmers’ unions have rejected both and intensified their over two-month-long agitation on the borders of the national capital.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-374
31-01-2021||India||Expelled AIADMK leader VK Sasikala discharged from hospital||V K Sasikal, the expelled AIADMK leader, was discharged from a hospital here on Sunday after recovering from COVID-19, days after she was set free by the prison officials on completion of her jail term in a corruption case, authorities said. Sending a strong signal, Sasikala, a close aide of late Tamil Nadu chief minister J Jayalalithaa, travelled in a car that sported the AIADMK flag from the hospital, with the ruling party questioning the propriety of her action when she had been ousted from the party. The party has time and again made it clear that the 66- year old Sasikala would not be taken back and that her release would not have any impact on the party, which is keen retain power in the assembly elections, expected in April-May. It has already declared incumbent K Palaniswami as the chief ministerial candidate for the polls. Sasikala was expelled from the party in September, 2017 along with her nephew TTV Dhinakaran and others by the general council of the combined AIADMK under the leadership of Palaniswami and his deputy O Panneerselvam after the two merged their respective factions. On Sunday, the AIADMK in its twitter handle said the use of its flag by Sasikala was against the law. “How Sasikala, who is not even a party member could use the party flag? This is against the law,” said senior party leader D Jayakumar, who is also the Fisheries Minister, said. Defending Sasikala, Dhinakaran, who is the general secretary of Amma Makkal Munnetra Kazhagam floated by him in March, 2018 as an arrangement to retrieve the AIADMK, claimed, “she (his aunt) is the general secretary of the AIADMK”. Cases relating to her so-called ‘expulsion’ and connected matters were pending before the court in Tamil Nadu, he told reporters, adding, “I have already told you that legal fight will continue (to retrieve the AIADMK).” The very purpose of floating the AMMK was to retrieve the AIADMK in a democratic way and ‘Thiyaga Thalaivi Chinnamma’ (leader of sacrifices, junior ‘Amma’) would continue legal efforts to win back the party, he said. Dhinakaran said as per doctors’ advice she would stay back here and take rest for a week before returning to Chennai. Political analyst Sumanth Raman tweeted “#Sasikala coming out of hospital in a car with an AIADMK flag on it seems to be a clear signal of her intentions. Game on.” Soon after she was discharged, Sasikala reached a resort near the scenic Nandi Hill at Devanahalli in North Bengaluru. Sasikala was admitted to the Victoria Hospital after she tested positive for COVID-19 recently while under judicial custody. Prison authorities here had formally released her on January 27 after she completed the four-year jail term in a Rs 66 crore disproportionate assets case. On the advice of doctors, she remained in the hospital and was discharged on Sunday after her latest test reports came negative for COVID-19, hospital officials said. A huge crowd of her supporters greeted Sasikala as she came out of the hospital. More than 300 police personnel were deployed in the area to ensure law and order, police said. Sambasivan, one of her supporters from Hosur in the border district of Krishnagiri in Tamil Nadu, told PTI that this was like a festival for him. Sasikala's release comes ahead of the assembly elections in Tamil Nadu and the course of action taken by her would be keenly watched. The Apex Court sentenced her to four year simple imprisonment on February 14, 2017 at a time when she was set to take over as the Chief Minister subsequent to her election as the AIADMK legislature party leader. After the sentence that also barred her from contesting elections for six years after completion of the term, she chose Palaniswami to be the chief minister. Before coming here to serve the sentence, Sasikala had made a dramatic vow at the ‘samadhi’ of Jayalalithaa, though she did not openly declare what it was all about.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-374
31-01-2021||India||Deploy state police for security of farmers protesting on Delhi borders: AAP to Punjab CM||The Aam Aadmi Party on Sunday asked Punjab Chief Minister Amarinder Singh to deploy the state police for the security of farmers protesting at Delhi borders against the three new Central laws. In a letter to Singh on Sunday, AAP spokesperson Raghav Chadha said the Punjab Police must provide protection to farmers so that no harm is done to them and they can continue to protest against the "black farm laws" in a peaceful manner. "The Aam Aadmi Party demands that you deploy Punjab Police in sufficient numbers to surround the camps where the peaceful protests are being held from all sides," Chadha said. "This protection to the farmers is absolutely essential in the light of recent attacks on them, engineered and executed by goons from BJP," he said. Chadha also attacked the BJP over the issue, alleging the party proposes to continue its "attitude of intimidating" any person who dares to raise a voice in opposition. "It is very obvious from the recent behaviour of goons that have been disrupting meetings by pelting stones and other violent behaviour that the BJP will, in keeping with its standard modus operandi, (keep) attempting to intimidate our farmer sisters and brothers," he added. On Saturday too, Chadha had asked Singh to deploy the state police at the protest sites. However, Punjab's ruling Congress had ridiculed the demand of the main opposition party, saying the party was not running an "anarchist" government in the state, "like Arvind Kejriwal (was) in Delhi".||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-374
31-01-2021||India||Government schemes in line with Vivekanada’s vision to help poor, says Modi||India is now providing solutions to world’s problems from the Covid-19 pandemic to climate change, Prime Minister Narendra Modi said on Sunday, citing a list of measures taken by his government. He asserted that these measures are in line with Swami Vivekananda’s vision to help the poor. Addressing the 125th anniversary celebrations of ‘Prabuddha Bharata’, a monthly journal of the Ramakrishna Order started by Swami Vivekananda in 1896, Modi listed several schemes, including opening of bank accounts and health insurance for the poor, to assert that they were in line with Swami Vivekananda's vision. “If the poor cannot access banks, banks must reach them -- that is Jan Dhan Yojana. If the poor cannot access insurance, it must reach them -- that is the Jan Suraksha scheme. If the poor cannot access healthcare, it must reach them -- this is the Ayushman Bharat scheme,” Modi said. Swami Vivekananda had said the remedy for weakness is not brooding over it, but thinking of solutions, the prime minister stated. “When we are thinking in terms of obstacles we get buried in them, but when we think in terms of opportunities, we get the way to move forward,” he said. “Take the Covid-19 pandemic as an example. What did India do? It did not just see the problem and remain helpless, India focused on solutions. From producing PPE kits to becoming a pharmacy for the world, our country has gone from strength to strength,” the prime minister said. India is at the forefront of developing Covid-19 vaccines and just a few days ago the country launched the world's largest vaccination drive, he said. “We are using these capacities to also help other nations,” Modi added. Noting that climate change is another obstacle that the whole world is facing, he said, “We did not only complain about the problem, we brought a solution in the form of the International Solar alliance.” “We are also advocating greater use of renewable resources. This is the Prabuddha Bharata of Swami Vivekananda's vision being built. This is an India which is giving solutions to the world's problems,” he said. Swami Vivekananda named this journal as Prabuddha Bharata to manifest the spirit of the nation as he wanted to create an awakened India, Modi said. “Swami Vivekananda saw India as a cultural consciousness that has been living and breathing for centuries, an India that only emerges stronger after every challenge despite contrary predictions,” he said. The journal ‘Prabuddha Bharata’ has been an important medium for spreading the message of India's ancient spiritual wisdom. Its publication was started from Chennai (erstwhile Madras), where it continued to be published for two years, after which it was published from Uttarakhand’s Almora. In April 1899, the place of publication of the journal was shifted to Advaita Ashram in Uttarakhand’s Mayavati and it has been published from there ever since. Some of the greatest personalities have left their imprint on the pages of ‘Prabuddha Bharata’ through their writings on Indian culture, spirituality, philosophy, history, psychology, art, and other social issues. Luminaries like Netaji Subhas Chandra Bose, Bal Gangadhar Tilak, Sister Nivedita, Sri Aurobindo, former president Sarvepalli Radhakrishnan, among others, have contributed to the journal over the years.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-374
31-01-2021||India||Farmers dance to folk tunes as police put up barricades at Ghazipur border||Hundreds of farmers, who reached a key protest site on the Delhi-Meerut highway in Ghazipur on the national capital's border with Uttar Pradesh, danced to upbeat tunes overnight as more supporters continued to pour in on Sunday. Security measures were strengthened with multi-layer barricading and barbed wires coming up on both sides of the highway stretch that has become the Bharatiya Kisan Union's (BKU) camping site since November 28 last year in a major farmers' stir over three new farm laws of the Centre. Farmers reached the Ghazipur border from western Uttar Pradesh, Haryana, Rajasthan, Uttarakhand as a turban-clad Rakesh Tikait led the charge for the BKU, the appeal of which coupled with a clarion call from a January 29 "mahapanchayat" of farmers in Muzaffarnagar has re-energised the stir, which was fast losing its sheen and momentum after the Republic Day violence in Delhi. According to the Ghaziabad administration, senior officials and police officers are regularly monitoring the situation at the Ghazipur border. Vehicles proceeding towards and coming from the protest site are being checked while drones have been deployed for aerial monitoring at the site, officials said. "The situation is under control and is being regularly monitored," an officer of the district administration said. The groups of farmers camping at the site braving the cold nights were seen dancing to folk tunes and songs eulogising the nation and farmers as some young protesters carried music systems to Ghazipur on their tractor-trollies. Thousands of farmers have been protesting at Delhi's borders with Haryana and Uttar Pradesh, demanding a rollback of the Farmers' Produce Trade and Commerce (Promotion and Facilitation) Act, 2020, the Farmers (Empowerment and Protection) Agreement on Price Assurance and Farm Services Act, 2020 and the Essential Commodities (Amendment) Act, 2020. The protesting farmers have expressed the apprehension that these laws would pave the way for the dismantling of the minimum support price (MSP) system, leaving them at the "mercy" of big corporations. However, the government has maintained that the new laws will bring better opportunities to farmers and introduce new technologies in agriculture.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-374
31-01-2021||India||Farmers respect PM’s dignity, but will also protect self-honour, says leader||Farmers will respect the dignity of the prime minister, but are also committed to protect their self-respect, leader Naresh Tikait said on Sunday. His comment comes a day after Narendra Modi said his government was just a phone call away for talks with them. Tikait said the government should release our men and prepare an environment conducive for talks . “A respectful solution should be reached. We will never agree to anything under pressure,” he told PTI at the Ghazipur border between Delhi and Uttar Pradesh. Prime Minister Narendra Modi had on Saturday said his government’s offer on agri laws made to protesting farmers still stands and it was a just phone call away for talks, days after violence broke out in parts of the national capital on Republic Day. “We will honor and respect the dignity of the prime minister. Farmers don’t want the government or Parliament to bow down to them,” Tikait said. “We will also ensure that the self-respect of farmers is protected. A middle way should be found. Talks should be held,” he added. During their January 26 parade, many of the protesters, driving tractors, reached the Red Fort while some of them hoisted religious flags on its domes and the flagstaff at the ramparts, where the national flag is unfurled by the prime minister on Independence Day. Tikait said, “The violence on January 26 was part of a conspiracy. The Tricolor is over and above everything. We will never let anyone disrespect it. It will not be tolerated.” The Delhi Police has registered nearly 40 cases and made over 80 arrests in connection with the violence and vandalism. The government should release our men and prepare an environment conducive for talks. A respectful solution should be reached. We will never agree to anything under pressure, Tikait asserted. In his monthly Mann Ki Baat radio broadcast Sunday, Prime Minister Modi also referred to the Red Fort incident, saying the country was much pained at seeing the dishonour to the Tricolour on Republic Day.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-374
31-01-2021||India||Cinema halls can operate with 100 per cent occupancy from Monday, says govt||Union Minister for Information and Broadcasting Prakash Javadekar announced on Sunday that cinema halls across the country will be permitted to operate at 100 per cent capacity from February 1 in adherence to Covid-19 safety protocols. Digital booking of tickets and staggered show timings will be encouraged, the minister said, releasing a set of the Standard Operating Procedures (SOPs). “There is good news. In February, people can watch and enjoy films in theatres as we are allowing full occupancy in all cinema halls. Cinema halls can now open at 100 per cent capacity. We encourage as much online booking (of tickets) as possible,” Javadekar told reporters here. “Staggered show timings will be encouraged so that the entry and exit of the crowd can be managed better. Sanitisation and all Covid-19 safety protocols must be followed,” the minister added. The development comes days after the Ministry of Home Affairs (MHA) allowed cinema halls and theatres to operate with more people as per fresh Covid-19 reopening guidelines, to be effective from February 1. Javadekar said he hopes people will “welcome” this move as the government is working towards relaxing several restrictions imposed due to the abnormal challenges posed by the coronavirus pandemic. "Customers can also buy food and beverage from the stalls at the theatres and can carry it with them inside (the auditorium). These are all normal things but when the situation became abnormal due to Covid-19, we had to put these restrictions. These restrictions are on the verge to be relaxed," the minister added. Post lockdown, the Centre had allowed reopening of theatres and multiplexes in several regions, including Delhi, parts of Madhya Pradesh and Gujarat on October 15, 2020 with 50 per cent occupancy, functioning with stringent dos and don'ts, keeping in view the new normal. Theatres in Maharashtra and Chhattisgarh opened last November, whereas cinema halls in Tamil Nadu and Kerala resumed operation in early January.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-374
31-01-2021||India||India hurt to see dishonour of Tricolour on R-Day, says Modi||India was pained to see the dishonour to the Tricolour on Republic Day, Prime Minister Narendra Modi said on Sunday, referring to the religious flag incident at the Red Fort during the farmers’ tractor parade. Addressing the first ‘Mann Ki Baat’ radio programme of the year, Modi also said the government is committed to modernising agriculture and is taking many steps in this regard. “In Delhi, on January 26, the country was very pained seeing the dishonour to the Tricolour,” he said. Thousands of protesting farmers had breached the monument on January 26 after deviating from their tractor rally route triggering a conflict with the police. They planted a religious flag atop the Red Fort, an incident which has sparked national outrage. In his broadcast, the prime minister also said that India has not only rolled out the world’s largest vaccination drive but is also vaccinating its citizens at the fastest rate. “The country has vaccinated over 30 lakh corona warriors in 15 days”, he said, adding the US and the UK took 18 and 36 days to reach this figure. He said the government is committed to modernising agriculture and is taking many steps in this regard. Modi added that the government’s efforts in this direction will continue. The prime minister’s remarks come amid ongoing protests by thousands of farmers, mostly from Haryana, Punjab and Uttar Pradesh, at several border points into Delhi since November-end, demanding a repeal of the three new agri laws and a legal guarantee to the minimum support system for their crops. The prime minister also hailed the Indian cricket team’s performance in its historic series win in Australia, saying the team's hard work and teamwork was inspirational. Modi also touched upon the Padma awards announced last week, and said the country has continued the recent tradition of honouring unsung heroes.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-374
31-01-2021||India||Mercury dips to 3.1 degrees Celsius in Delhi, cold wave prevails||A cold wave swept the national capital on Sunday morning, with the minimum temperature dipping to 3.1 degrees Celsius, the India Meteorological Department said. However, clear skies and plenty of sunshine are expected to provide some relief. The maximum temperature is likely to settle around 22 degrees Celsius, an IMD official said.
This is the fourth cold wave day in Delhi in a week.
In the plains, the IMD declares a cold wave if the minimum temperature dips to 4 degrees Celsius. A severe cold wave is when the minimum is 2 degrees Celsius or less.
The minimum temperature on Tuesday and Thursday had settled at 2.1 degrees Celsius and 3.8 degrees Celsius, respectively, due to the cold and dry northwesterly winds barreling through the plains, the IMD said.
Cold wave conditions had prevailed in Delhi on Friday, too, with the minimum temperature settling at four degrees Celsius, five notches below normal.
On Saturday, the minimum temperature in the national capital rose slightly to 5.4 degrees Celsius.
On New Year's Day, the city had recorded a minimum of 1.1 degrees Celsius, the lowest for the month in 15 years.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-375
31-01-2021||India||Covid: over 13,000 cases in a day||With 13,052 new coronavirus infections being reported in a day, India's Covid-19 tally has gone up to 1,07,46,183, while the number of people who have recuperated from the disease has surged to 1,04,23,125, according to the Union Health Ministry data updated on Sunday.
The national recovery rate has climbed to 96.99 per cent.
The death toll increased to 1,54,274 with 127 new fatalities, the data updated at 8 am showed.
The number of people who have recuperated from the disease surged to 1,04,23,125. The Covid-19 case fatality rate stands at 1.44 per cent.
The total Covid-19 active cases remained below 2 lakh for the 12th consecutive day. There are 1,68,784 active coronavirus infections in the country which comprises 1.57 per cent of the total caseload, the data stated. India's Covid-19 tally had crossed the 20-lakh mark on August 7, 30 lakh on August 23, 40 lakh on September 5 and 50 lakh on September 16. It went past 60 lakh on September 28, 70 lakh on October 11, crossed 80 lakh on October 29, 90 lakh on November 20 and surpassed the one-crore mark on December 19. According to the ICMR, 19,65,88,372 samples have been tested up to January 30 with 7,50,964 samples being tested on Saturday.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-375
31-01-2021||India||Academics raise quality questions on Centre's virtual university plan||The NDA government has announced plans to set up virtual universities that will offer programmes entirely online, causing concern among academics who say that global experience raises questions about the quality of the education delivered by such varsities. Education minister Ramesh Pokhriyal revealed the virtual varsity plan at a meeting on Friday. The plan is premised on the National Education Policy’s (NEP) aim of increasing the gross enrolment rate (GER) in higher education among young Indians from the current 26 per cent to 50 per cent by 2035. “The minister informed that government will soon take necessary steps to establish virtual universities, which is different from the concept of open universities (and) will help in achieving the desired GER in higher education as envisaged in NEP,” a government media release said. An education ministry official said the virtual universities would be likely to offer courses that do not require laboratory experiments. The students will receive all the study material online, including video lectures. They can clarify doubts through chats or email. The examinations will be held online too. There’s no clarity yet whether any interactive online classes would be held through videoconferencing. Some universities like Ignou that conduct offline distance-education courses hold about 20 per cent of the classes face-to-face at designated centres relatively close to the students’ homes. The exams too are held physically at designated centres. Global experience suggests that online courses lack rigour. A research paper, “Virtual classrooms: how online college courses affect students”, published in the American Economic Review in September 2017 said that taking a course online reduces a student’s chances of successfully completing it. The researchers studied undergraduates at an American college where each course was offered online as well as in-person. Both modules featured the same syllabus, textbooks, assignments, tests, grading rubrics and class strength. Another study, by two teachers from the Massachusetts Institute of Technology, too found that the proportions of students successfully completing online courses remained abysmal, and was declining. The paper, “The MOOCs (massive online open courses) pivot”, published in January 2019 in the journal Science, analysed data relating to students of online courses at MIT and Harvard University. It found that only 3.13 per cent of these students had completed their course in 2017, compared to 4 per cent in each of the previous two years. Abha Dev Habib, former member of Delhi University’s executive council, said that everywhere in the world face-to-face education was valued more than virtual or distance-mode learning. “In the western countries, students use the virtual learning modules to supplement their face-to-face learning,” Habib said. “Some do short-term programmes to gain additional qualifications for professional development. But the virtual mode is not a preferred model for the longer degree courses anywhere in the world.” She said the government should clarify whether the virtual universities would hold any live online classes. If the students lack any contact with their teachers or peers, she said, they would have to bank entirely on self-study, which means the quality of education might be poorer compared even to the usual distance-mode courses. JNU computer science professor Rajeev Kumar said virtual varsities were a good idea but their success would depend on how rigorously the institutions guarded against exam malpractices. “It’s a good step but there should be checks and balances to ensure rigour in the delivery of the programme,” he said. “There’s enough scope for manipulation in learning as well as in evaluation. For success, the academia should strive for higher standards and higher levels of academic integrity.” An Ignou professor said a virtual university implied distance education in the online mode. This, he said, required the preparation of online course material and the formulation of regulations, which had not been done yet.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-375
31-01-2021||India||Arrested Kerala journalist Siddique Kappan seeks interim bail to visit ailing mother ||The Kerala Union of Working Journalists has approached the Supreme Court seeking five days’ interim bail for Siddique Kappan to visit his 90-year-old mother who is on her deathbed. The application was filed on Friday, a day after Siddique made a video call to his family from jail but could not speak to his mother since she was unconscious at a hospital in the family’s hometown of Vengara, Malappuram district. The apex court had on January 22 allowed a single video call between Kappan and his mother, who had been asking about her son since his arrest on terror charges in October, while her health was steadily deteriorating. “We tried our best to wake her up so she could see her son. But her condition was so bad that she didn’t even realise her son was at the other end of the video call,” Kappan’s wife Raihanath told The Telegraph on Saturday. Hospitalised on January 22, Kappan’s mother was discharged on January 29 — still unconscious and without any improvement in her health — after the doctors said there was little they could do for her any more. A medical certificate submitted to the Supreme Court has confirmed that she is suffering from uncontrolled diabetes that has led to reduced food intake and general debility. “Our only hope is that the court will allow interim bail to Siddique to be with his mother for at least a few days,” Raihanath said. Kappan, 41, Delhi-based retainer of Malayalam news portal azhimukam.com and secretary of the Delhi unit of the KUWJ, was arrested on October 5 while on his way to Hathras in Uttar Pradesh where a Dalit girl had been brutally gang-raped, leading to her death. Uttar Pradesh police have accused him and three others who were travelling with him of being members of the Muslim Right-wing group Popular Front of India, a charge Kappan denies. They have been accused of planning to foment trouble and booked under the Unlawful Activities Prevention Act and other penal provisions. Raihanath said a prison official who had allowed Kappan to use his phone to make the video call had ensured there was no media presence while the call was made.
While Kappan could not speak to his mother, his family members and children got to see him. “He was wearing winter clothes and a cap. But he looked tired and downcast and started tearing up on seeing his motionless mother lying on the hospital bed,” Raihanath said. She said the interim bail plea was the last resort since the regular bail application would come up only in March. “This is our only option to get him here to see his mother,” she said. Lawyer Wills Mathew, who filed the interim bail application, said that if the plea was allowed, Kappan could be flown directly to Kozhikode, about 17km from his home, and taken back to Mathura along the same route.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-375
31-01-2021||India||BJP wary as protest spotlight shifts to UP ||Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s statement on Saturday that his government’s offer to suspend the three new farm laws for 18 months still stands is being seen as an indication of the ruling establishment’s discomfort with the movement, which has gone from strength to strength and seems to have beaten back efforts to discredit and subdue it after the Republic Day chaos. The government had swooped down on the protests after the incidents of violence during the tractor parade on Republic Day, but the crackdown proved counter-productive as more and more farmers joined with renewed vigour, braving a slander campaign and attacks from mobs. Modi, who has not reached out to the protesting farmers directly even after more than 150 have died while on dharna, referred to the offer to suspend the laws after several Opposition leaders strongly raised the farmers’ protest and the farm laws at an all-party meeting ahead of the budget session of Parliament. The farmers had already rejected the government’s offer, made earlier this month, to keep the laws in abeyance for 18 months and said nothing short of a repeal was acceptable. The sacrifices of those who have died during the protest would not go in vain, they said. The all-party meeting was held a day after most Opposition parties boycotted the President’s address to both Houses of Parliament over the farm issues, raising the spectre of a stormy budget session. The Uttar Pradesh administration had on Wednesday served an eviction notice to the protesters at the Ghazipur border and deployed a large police contingent. But the government had to withdraw after farmer leader Rakesh Tikait’s tearful appeal turned the tide, propelling large crowds from the adjoining hinterlands of western Uttar Pradesh and Haryana to rush to Ghazipur and other protest sites, simmering with anger against the Modi government. The BJP appears not to have bargained for such a spirited pushback from the farmers, especially with the Uttar Pradesh elections scheduled early next year. The Modi government had till now been treating the farmers’ protest as primarily a Punjab-specific movement that had some support in Haryana but the crackdown seems to have spread the fire to western Uttar Pradesh and beyond. Many in the BJP fear that western Uttar Pradesh could now turn into the epicentre of the farm protests, which would not be good news for the Yogi Adityanath government. The BJP had in 2014 managed to sway the Jats, the dominant land community in Uttar Pradesh, by using the 2013 Muzaffarnagar communal riots to infuse Hindutva feelings. In the 2019 polls, too, the party had raised the Pakistan bogey in the aftermath of the Pulwama terror attack to influence large sections of Jats despite anger in the community over agricultural issues. BJP leaders now fear that the farm protests could make it impossible to mollify the community. In adjoining Haryana, the BJP government already finds itself in danger with Jat anger intensifying against the Manohar Lal Khattar government over the farm laws. The BJP government relies on the support of Jannayak Janata Party leader Dushyant Chautala, who is under huge pressure from his Jat constituency to snap ties with the saffron party.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-375
31-01-2021||India||AAP dares cops on farmer sword attack ||The Aam Aadmi Party on Saturday released pictures of alleged BJP supporters saying they had described themselves as residents of Dakha Singhu and attacked the protesting farmers on Friday. At a news conference, MLA and party spokesperson Saurabh Bharadwaj offered to resign from the Assembly if it was proved that a farmer had indeed attacked a Delhi police inspector with a sword. A Delhi police statement on Friday had said: “While the Insp. Pradeep, SHO PS Alipur, was pacifying the farmers to stop stone pelting from their side, he was suddenly attacked by a sword-wielding person, who was subsequently overpowered and apprehended from the spot.” The police statement added: “The officer sustained grievous sword injuries and other 5 police persons were also injured.” A 22-year-old Punjab resident named Ranjeet Singh was arrested from the spot and charged with offences that include attempt to murder. In response to a question about his party’s stand on the sword attack, Bharadwaj said: “I want Delhi police to release the video which shows how the farmer was attacked, where did the farmer attack. I will resign as an MLA if proved wrong.” He alleged: “The police protected BJP goons who attacked the farmers. The police saved the attackers and helped them flee. This farmer (Ranjeet) chased the attackers. The police caught him... and all the cops pounced on this farmer with their lathis and mercilessly beat him. “When did he strike — I did not see in the (ANI) video (purportedly of the incident).” The AAP has released images of three men — whom it has identified as Pradeep Khatri Tholedar, Aman Kumar and Sudama Singh — from the footage of the brawl along with other pictures and their Facebook profile photos that suggest they are BJP activists. A recent poster describes Tholedar as the BJP Kisan Morcha president of northwest Delhi. Kumar is the husband of BJP municipal councillor Anju Devi and has been seen in BJP events in the past. Naveen Kumar, media head of the Delhi BJP, neither confirmed nor denied the trio’s party membership. He told The Telegraph: “No BJP worker is involved.... None of our elected representatives have gone to these protests.... When the police tried to remove these protesters who indulged in violence on Republic Day, AAP was standing with these protesters. AAP MLA Sahi Ram is seen in photos of the January 26 protests.” Bharadwaj said: “More than 2,500 Delhi police officials and central force (personnel) were present at the venue. On the instructions of the BJP, these police officials allowed BJP goons to enter the protest site and assault the farmers. The police are not allowing water tankers to reach the protest venue but have allowed the BJP goons.” He added: “In a planned manner, the BJP goons kept stones in two trucks near the venue which they used. In front of the police and with the help of the police these around 300 BJP goons assaulted the farmers.” In Friday’s statement, the police claimed that local people had come to meet the farmers to “press for the local demand that the protesters vacate the said space and open the border and said that they have been providing all kind of help to the protesters for the last 2 months but now their livelihood is getting affected, hence they are requested to open the border and vacate the road. They came yesterday also with the same request. This was resisted by some farmers and pushing-pulling of the police barricades kept to secure the langar tents ensued. During this stone pelting started.” The police had on Friday said they had arrested 44 people after six personnel including inspector Pradeep, the Alipur station house officer, were injured during a clash between “local villagers” and “some farmers” at the Singhu border. At least 15 farmers too were injured.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-375
31-01-2021||India||Modi: Offer to hold farm laws still stands||Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Saturday told an all-party meeting that the offer to suspend the farm laws for 18 months still stood, marking his first direct intervention at a time the farmers’ protests have made an electrifying turnaround after the Republic Day setback. “During the all-party meet, PM @narendramodi assured that GOI (government of India) is approaching the farmers’ issue with an open mind,” parliamentary affairs minister Pralhad Joshi tweeted after the virtual all-party meeting before the budget session. “The PM said GOI’s stand is the same as it was on January 22nd — proposal by agriculture minister Narendra Singh Tomar still stands. He (Modi) reiterated what Tomar ji said — that he (Tomar) is a phone call away for talks.” Modi has so far resolutely backed the three new farm laws and claimed they have the support of the majority of farmers. He has not reached out directly to the protesters.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-375
31-01-2021||India||Govt shuts down Net to cut off farmers||The Narendra Modi government on Friday ordered an Internet shutdown at all the three sites of protest along Delhi’s borders and adjoining areas for 48 hours, deploying a tactic tried and tested in Kashmir to cut off the farmers. The decision forced union leaders and prominent activists to travel outside the blackout zone to upload posts to bust the rumours that are being simultaneously spread about the situation at Ghazipur, Singhu and Tikri. The Union home ministry invoked the Temporary Suspension of Telecom Services (Public Emergency or Public Safety) Rules 2017 in the Indian Telegraph Act to shut down the Internet in these areas where tens of thousands of men, women and children have been agitating peacefully since November-end for the repeal of three new farm laws. The clampdown comes after the protesting farmers succeeded in turning the narrative built against them, through television media in particular, since the chaos during the Republic Day tractor rally. Flow of information out of the protest sites had helped mobilise farmers over the past two days, with visuals of the crackdown at Ghazipur on Thursday night shared over social media turning the tide against the government. Through the Kisan Ekta Morcha platform, the protesting farmers were not only disseminating information and galvanising support with targeted hashtags daily, but were also seeking out videos and photographs from the public about the tractor rally. The farmers believe the chaos on Republic Day was orchestrated to defame them. Saturday’s hashtag was “ModiPlanningFarmerGenocide” with the image of Jaggi Singh — a protest participant bleeding from the head, hair flowing and fist raised in defiance — after his turban was ripped apart during the attack at the Singhu border on Friday. The attacks on the protesting farmers caught the attention of lawmakers overseas. British Labour MP Tanmanjeet Singh Dhesi posted Jaggi Singh’s pictures and those of Ranjit Singh, a protester pinned down on the ground with a policeman’s boot on his face, and tweeted: “Shocked to see mobs and police trying to intimidate and clear Delhi #Farmers Protest, after stopping their water, electricity and Internet. Violence can’t be condoned, but if people in power abuse peaceful protesters, it’ll merely make their movement stronger. #TheWorldIsWatching.” Jagmeet Singh, leader of Canada’s New Democratic Party, tweeted: “I am deeply concerned about the violence against farmers in India. Those calling to harm farmers must be held accountable and the right to peaceful protest must be protected. I am calling on Justin Trudeau to condemn the violence, immediately.” In a video message attached to the tweet, he called upon leaders of the world to “denounce the Indian government’s violent response to these peaceful protesters”. Despite the flow of information from the three borders reducing to a trickle on Saturday, mobilisation across Punjab, Haryana and western Uttar Pradesh continued uninterrupted. INLD leader Abhay Singh Chautala, who quit his Haryana Assembly seat earlier this week in protest against the farm laws, left Ambala on Saturday for Ghazipur. Nineteen khap panchayats in Haryana’s Jind district have issued a call to boycott the BJP and its ally, the Jannayak Janta Party, and announced they would hold a padyatra from the Khatkar toll plaza to Delhi’s borders on February 7. They criticised the decision to block Internet services in the state saying it was affecting the education of students whom the pandemic has forced to study from home.
The Hissar and Bhiwani districts too witnessed big protest meetings in support of the farmers. The Bharatiya Kisan Union-Ekta (Ugrahan), by far the largest farmers’ organisation in Punjab, said the police had stopped a convoy of hundreds of farmers on their way to the Kundli border. The Samyukta Kisan Morcha, in a late night statement, took note of Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s statement at an all-party meeting that the government stood by its offer to suspend the implementation of the farm laws for 18 months. Stating that the farmers had come to Delhi’s doorstep to converse with their elected government, the SKM said it was always open to talks but iterated the demand for full repeal of the three laws and a legally guaranteed MSP for all farmers. A daylong fast was observed at all the three border protest sites to mark the anniversary of Mahatma Gandhi’s martyrdom. The farmers took a pledge to keep fighting for their demands peacefully. Freelance journalist Mandeep Punia was detained by police at Singhu on Saturday. Hartosh Singh Bal of The Caravan tweeted that Punia was a regular contributor and shared a video of policemen purportedly dragging him away. Bal tweeted: “We’ve learnt Mandeep had spent the morning trying to track down those from BJP claiming to be ‘locals’ at Singhu.” A policeman told PTI Punia was removing barricades.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-375
31-01-2021||India||Human chain defies biting cold to express solidarity with farmers||A large number of people braved icy winds and chilly weather across Bihar on Saturday on Mahatma Gandhi’s death anniversary (Martyrs’ Day) to come out and form a human chain to express solidarity with the farmers protesting against the three controversial farm laws in Delhi. The Opposition Grand Alliance of the Rashtriya Janata Dal (RJD), the Congress, the CPI-ML, the CPI and the CPM had given a call to form the human chain in support of the protesting farmers. Apart from their workers and supporters, the parties had also appealed to the common people to participate in the human chain to protect farmers, agriculture and the country. Thousands of people in all 38 districts of the state came out waving national flags, party signs, banners and placards and assembled neatly on major roads and thoroughfares, including national highways. They shouted slogans against the central government and the new farm laws. At many places farmers came with bullock carts and tractors to participate in the human chain, disrupting the movement of normal traffic, but the short time of half-an-hour from 12.30pm ensured that the commuters did not suffer much. The farmers spoke about the poor condition of agriculture in Bihar and demanded that their produce be bought at MSP (minimum support price). The state government officially procures paddy and wheat at MSP, but the benefit seldom trickles down to the farmers. Top Opposition leaders participated in the event with their supporters in Patna and asserted that their struggle will continue till the three farm laws are repealed. “The central government has planned to hand over the land of the farmers to the capitalists. It is making the jawans (soldiers) and kisans (farmers) fight with each other so that the nefarious plan to favour its fund-givers succeeds,” RJD leader Tejashwi Prasad Yadav, who joined the human chain in Patna, said. Asserting that the Grand Alliance was completely in support of the farmers, Tejashwi added: “We are seeing that that the rights of the farmers are being usurped. We will never let this happen. We will keep on protesting till the three black farm laws are rolled back. If the farmers are asking for it, these laws should go.” CPI-ML general secretary Dipankar Bhattacharya thanked the people of Bihar for standing in support of the farmers’ protest. He said that the agitation will now attain greater heights. “The BJP was publicising that there was no protest in Bihar. Its leaders should see how the people have come out to form a human chain against the black farm laws. The demand for giving legal guarantee on the MSP and bringing back the Agriculture Produce Market Committee (APMC) Act is also becoming stronger,” Bhattacharya said. The Congress leaders and supporters also participated in the human chain across the state. AICC in-charge for Bihar, Bhakta Charan Das, joined the protest near Bhitiharwa Ashram that was established by Gandhi in West Champaran district, while other senior leaders participated in the human chain formed outside the state Congress headquarters at Sadaquat Ashram in Patna.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-375
31-01-2021||India||Video shows Indore municipal workers bid to dump homeless||The Madhya Pradesh government has suspended a municipal deputy commissioner and sacked two civic employees in Indore after a video showed elderly street dwellers being dumped on a highway on the city’s outskirts. Indore has been ranked India’s cleanest city for four years straight, and has a reputation for not letting garbage or street dwellers be visible. The video, shot by a man named Rajesh Joshi, shows municipal workers offloading from a truck elderly men and women, bent and wrinkled, on a roadside with their meagre belongings. After protests by local people, the Indore Municipal Corporation staff are seen hauling the homeless people back into the truck. Following a public outcry, chief minister Shivraj Singh Chouhan tweeted on Friday: “Inhuman treatment towards the elderly will not be tolerated at any cost.” The elders have now been moved to a shelter for the homeless.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-375
31-01-2021||India||NSG scans Israeli embassy explosives||The Union home ministry on Saturday directed the National Security Guard’s bomb disposal squad to examine the explosives used in the low-intensity blast near the Israeli embassy in high security Lutyen’s Delhi. Sources said investigators probing the “very low-intensity blast” were still groping in the dark and have so far not come across “anything concrete”. “A probe is already in progress and nothing can be presumed now. It is too early to reach any conclusion. We are probing all angles,” a Delhi police officer said. No one was injured in the minor blast that took place around 5.05pm on Friday while the Beating Retreat ceremony was underway at Rajpath barely 2km away. Windowpanes of three cars parked on a pavement were found to be shattered. Sources in Delhi police said a purported white envelope addressed to the Israeli embassy and containing a handwritten note was found at the site of the explosion. The bomb was planted in a flowerpot on the pavement, police said. Sleuths of the police’s special cell probing the blast again visited the spot on Saturday to collect more evidence. “Some ball bearings were found scattered near the blast site. The residues, including metallic swab and ball bearings, collected from the spot have been sent to the forensic science laboratory for examination,” said a police officer. Officers probing the case, he said, have also scanned footage retrieved from the CCTV cameras installed in the neighbourhood and spotted a vehicle moving suspiciously near the embassy moments before the explosion. The explosion took place on a day when India and Israel marked the completion of the 29th anniversary of the establishment of their diplomatic relations. Sources said the special cell was also probing any link to the 2012 explosion in which an Israeli diplomat’s wife was among the four persons injured after a magnetic bomb stuck to a vehicle went off in Delhi. Delhi police’s spokesperson had said on Friday that initial impressions suggested a “mischievous attempt to create a sensation”.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-376
