01-12-2021||India||HTLS 2021 — Olympic gold medallists Abhinav Bindra and Neeraj Chopra on learning to live with pressure||New Delhi: When a 25-year-old Abhinav Bindra hit that golden number — a 10.8 — with his last shot in 10m air rifle at the 2008 Beijing Olympics and turned around, his face barely registered any emotion. A fist pump, followed by a blank look of sheer exhaustion. Just looking at him, it would have been impossible to say that he had just won India’s first individual Olympic gold medal. It was his third Olympics, his third attempt at a childhood goal (the first came in 2000, when he was just 17). Thirteen years later, at the Tokyo Olympics, Neeraj Chopra strode into the Olympic Stadium on the night of August 7 with a swagger and a smile that suggested that he was made for the big stage. It was his first Olympics, but he had already built quite the reputation. He flung his javelin like a gladiator, flexing his muscles and letting out a roar. As the javelin flew, another dream became reality: Chopra had won India’s first medal in athletics at the Olympics, and only the second individual gold after Bindra. The only two Olympic gold medallists from India came together at the Hindustan Times Leadership Summit on Wednesday, for an engrossing conversation on their journeys, the way forward, and the things that drove them to success. “I cannot be satisfied because I have won a gold medal,” Chopra, 23 said. “I have time on my side. Sportspersons ka dimag kuch ulta hota hai (sportspeople think a little differently). Yes, I have won a gold, but I won’t leave any stone unturned to win another gold, to better my distance, to go for an Olympic record. I have to improve my strength, work on my technique and go beyond 90m. I have been chasing that for some time now, but I lost one year because of injury and then one year because of Covid.” Chopra’s best throw, 88.07m, came this year at the Asian Games, where he won gold and rewrote his own national record. “Neeraj, what is better than one gold? Bindra said, smiling. “Two gold medals!” For Chopra’s journey ahead, Bindra, when asked by the thrower, offered some important advice. “There will always be pressure,” Bindra said. “Many athletes try to run away from pressure and make their own strategies to not feel pressure. Reality is different. You will go to Paris with so much expectations, pressure will be there. There is a human tendency to resist pressure, but you cannot do that. It will make your job tougher. Accept that there will be pressure and find ways to coexist with pressure. “Yes, I have been to five Olympics, but every time, I was a different individual. My body, attitude, mindset, technique, were different. The mistake we make is that we repeat the same things when we are doing good. Never be afraid of getting out of your comfort zone. Tiger Woods changed his swing at his peak. We have to keep pushing.” Chopra said that despite winning a medal on his Olympic debut, he has no problem motivating himself because “in our sport, we have something extra, something more than an Olympic gold and that’s the distance we can throw. You can keep shifting your goal, keep working with distance.” At the Games in Tokyo, Chopra showed great spirit when he had egged on Germany’s Johannes Vetter — his fiercest rival, the runaway favourite going into the event and someone who has multiple 90m plus throws to his name — encouraging him to do better when Vetter was struggling during the qualifying round. “If I sit hiding in some corner and hoping he does not throw well, it won’t make any difference,” Chopra said. “He will still throw what he has to throw. It’s much better to encourage each other. Vetter was egging me on too. My encouragement may not make any difference to his throws either, but it makes me feel good.”It’s a deep camaraderie that exists in athletics, Chopra said. “You should see the pole vaulters, they are even more involved with each other. If Mondo Duplantis (world record holder and reigning Olympic champion) clears a big height, his rivals will come and hug him. You can look at sports two ways: you can see it as winning or losing, or you can see it as something you enjoy, something that gives you joy. Good to be with that joy and let the winning or losing happen automatically.”Bindra could not agree more, for him, sports was about the journey and the relationships he forged along the way. He hardly ever thinks back about the day he won the Olympic gold, he said. “My journey of 22 years in sports was so much more than that one day or that one medal hanging on my wall,” Bindra said. “Sports allowed me to have a wonderful relationship with my mother who travelled with me as a 12-year-old when I went to Germany to train. “It allowed me to spend a lot of time with my father, to build beautiful relationships with other shooters and coaches and it taught me discipline, and certain values that I will always live by.” One thing that both Bindra and Chopra hoped would change as a result of their achievements is the sporting culture of India. “I think things are already changing,” Chopra said. “Yes, we don’t have enough stadiums, at the rural level there aren’t enough stadiums or coaches and that’s where the athletes come from, but there is definitely a lot more interest.” Bindra added that thinking about sports at the elite level was not enough. “Elite sport is a small number, we need to build the opportunity for many young people to play and to enjoy it,” he said. “Sport can play a very important role in defining a nation. We are very addicted to the soft power that winning medals at international competitions brings, but what I am interested is in the real power of sports, of the way it teaches you values, of how to lose, how to win, how to live.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/htls-2021-olympic-gold-medallists-abhinav-bindra-and-neeraj-chopra-on-learning-to-live-with-pressure-101638383296290.html
01-12-2021||India||Southern states logged highest Nov rains since 1901, says IMD||The south peninsular region, which receives the northeast monsoon during winter months, recorded its highest ever rainfall in November since 1901, the India Meteorological Department (IMD) said on Wednesday.The region is most likely to see above-normal rainfall in December, it added.Also Read | Deep dive: Why does Chennai flood every time it rains heavily?The states of Andhra Pradesh, Tamil Nadu, Puducherry, Kerala and south interior Karnataka gauged 169% excess rainfall last month, mainly due to the presence of five low pressure systems over Andaman Sea compared to 2.4 systems forming on an average during this period, the weather bureau said.In 1901, only 50% of long period average (117.5 mm) was recorded.The northeast monsoon was also in its active phase last month, it added.As many as 100 people were killed across Kerala, Karnataka and Tamil Nadu in various rain-related events in the southern peninsula last month.Also Read | Heavy rainfall continues in Chennai, over 20k in relief camps“Sea surface temperature over the north equatorial Indian Ocean has been higher than normal in recent months. Easterly waves are also coming to the Indian Ocean region from the northwest Pacific. These are then forming into low pressure systems over the Indian Ocean. A warm Indian Ocean may be a result of intra-seasonal variability and may also be because of climate change,” DS Pai, who heads climate research and services at IMD, Pune, had said on Tuesday.The weather body said the region is most likely to see above-normal rainfall (more than 132 per cent of the long period average) in December. The LPA of rainfall over south Peninsular India during December, based on the data of 1961-2010, is about 44.54 mm.Also Read | These southern states to get above normal rainfall from Dec till Feb: IMDMeanwhile, the country saw 645 events of heavy rainfall (64.5 to 115.5 mm) and 168 events of very heavy rainfall (115.6 to 204.5 mm) last month, the highest in the month in five years, the weather bureau said.The country also recorded 11 extremely heavy rainfall events (more than 204.5 mm) in November, with most of them concentrated around the peninsula region, it added.‘Normal’ winter likely over northwest IndiaThe IMD has also issued a probabilistic forecast for minimum and maximum temperatures for winter months of December to February.Models suggest that ‘normal’ to ‘above normal’ minimum temperatures are likely over many parts of northwest India, most parts of south and northeast India and some areas along the Himalayan foothills, it said. Minimum temperatures are likely to be below normal over some parts of the north interior peninsula, it added.According to IMD director general M Mohapatra, there is a higher probability of normal temperatures during winter in Haryana, Punjab and Delhi.“This doesn’t mean that there will be no cold waves or no cold periods. It only means that the minimum and maximum temperatures will be as expected during winter months over northwestern states,” he said.Maximum temperatures are likely to be below normal over most parts of the country, except only some parts of northwest India and most parts of northeast India where normal to above normal temperatures are likely, IMD scientists said.The rainfall forecast suggests that normal to above normal rainfall is likely over most parts of south peninsular India in December. It also suggests that below normal rainfall is most likely over most areas of northwest India and some parts of central and northeast India this month.Currently, the sea surface temperatures (SSTs) and the atmospheric conditions over the equatorial Pacific Ocean indicate weak La Niña conditions.The latest forecasts from global models suggest that La Niña conditions are likely to strengthen and peak to moderate conditions during the upcoming winter season. In addition to El Nino- Southern Oscillation (ENSO) conditions over the Pacific, other factors such as the Indian Ocean SSTs also influence the Indian climate. At present, neutral Indian Ocean Dipole (IOD) conditions are prevailing over the Indian Ocean.Andhra Pradesh and Odisha on cyclone watchThe IMD has issued a cyclone alert for north Andhra Pradesh and Odisha coasts.According to the weather body, a depression is likely to form over southeast and adjoining east-central Bay of Bengal by Thursday and intensify into cyclonic storm Jawad over central parts of the Bay of Bengal during the subsequent 24 hours.It is then likely to move northwestwards, intensify further and reach near north Andhra Pradesh – Odisha coasts around December 4 morning.The maximum impact is likely to be felt in north Andhra Pradesh and Odisha but Gangetic West Bengal is also expected to record very heavy rain on December 5, IMD said.In view of this, oil industries, off-shore and alongshore operations along north Andhra Pradesh, Odisha and West Bengal coasts have been advised to be regulated on December 3 and to be suspended on December 4 to ensure safety of life and property, it added.Standing crops in coastal districts, which include paddy and horticulture crops, are likely to be impacted.Mohapatra advised farmers to keep paddy that has already been harvested, away from the rain and strong winds.The IMD cautioned against flooding of roads, inundation and water logging in low lying areas, disruption of traffic in major cities due to water logging in roads leading to increased travel time, damage to vulnerable structures, landslides/mudslides and flooding of river catchments in both Andhra Pradesh and Odisha.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/southern-states-logged-highest-nov-rains-since-1901-says-imd-101638383056502.html
01-12-2021||India||UP elections: SP chief Akhilesh Yadav rebuts PM Modi’s ‘parivaarwad’ remark||Samajwadi Party (SP) national president Akhilesh Yadav on Wednesday intensified his attack against Prime Minister Narendra Modi and Uttar Pradesh chief minister Yogi Adityanath, alleging that “those who do not have families, cannot relate to the pain of those with families”.The statement comes months after PM Modi, during a rally in Purvanchal on October 21, alleged that the SP has moved away from ‘samajwad’ (socialism) to ‘parivaarwad’ (family-run).“We Samajwadi people, we understand the problems of the poor, we are ‘parivaar waale log’ (family-oriented people) so we understand what it means for a labourer or a farmer to lose their life. We are family-oriented people so we have helped people in the past. ‘Parivaar waale hi parivaar waalon ka dukh samajh sakte hain, jinke paas parivaar nahin hain woh aapka dukh kya samjhenge (those who have families can understand the plight of others with families; how will those who don’t have families understand this),” Yadav said during the fifth leg of his Samajwadi Vijay Rath Yatra in the Bundelkhand region of Uttar Pradesh.The former UP CM also took a dig at the ruling BJP’s “Damdaar Sarkar” advertisement across the poll-bound state,  asking people if they wanted a “Yogi sarkar” (Yogi government) or a “yogya sarkar” (able government).“Aap ko Yogi sarkaar chahiye ya yogya sarkaar chahiye (do you need a Yogi government or an able government?). These people have taken back Uttar Pradesh by many years. There is politics of hate and loot... Their progress is only in pictures...”He further slammed the state government’s recent move to provide tablets and smartphones to students, saying that one cannot expect a chief minister, who “cannot operate laptops and smartphones”, to extend such facilities.“You are just getting assurances for the last four years and a half from the government for laptops. Now, when elections are approaching, they are promising laptops and tablets. He will not give them. Those who cannot operate a laptop cannot give it to the young people either,” he said.Yadav also alleged that the Yogi government deliberately leaked the question paper of the Teachers’ Eligibility Test (TET) as it would not be in a position to provide jobs to successful candidates. He promised that the Samajwadi Party will employ those with Basic Teachers Training and Bachelor of Education certification if voted to power.Yadav said though the people of Bundelkhand extended full support to the BJP in the previous assembly and Lok Sabha polls, the region saw no development.“The government’s ‘double engine’ failed by the time it reached Bundelkhand,” he said. The SP chief alleged that the government’s incapacity had left its citizens like “orphans” during the worst period of the Covid-19 pandemic a few months back.Hitting back at Yadav, UP BJP secretary Chandramohan said, “A political party which has never looked beyond its family and caste, and whose political chief openly talks about love for Jinnah, can hardly be deemed trustworthy. Naturally, fearing rejection, the SP leadership appears to have lost the plot altogether. The 2022 UP polls would establish this.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/up-elections-sp-chief-akhilesh-yadav-rebuts-pm-modi-s-parivaarwad-remark-101638382821717.html
01-12-2021||India||Sirsa switches over to BJP before Punjab polls||Former Shiromani Akali Dal leader Manjinder Singh Sirsa on Wednesday joined the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) ahead of the assembly elections in Punjab. The announcement came hours after he resigned as the president of Delhi Sikh Gurdwara Management Committee (DSGMC).The two-time MLA from Rajouri Garden assembly constituency and a prominent Akali Dal face in Delhi, Sirsa joined the BJP in the presence of Union ministers Gajendra Singh Shekhawat and Dharmendra Pradhan, and other senior leaders. He also met Union home minister Amit Shah and BJP president JP Nadda later in the day.Also Read | Prominent Sikh face Sirsa gives BJP a shot in the arm in poll-bound Punjab“There are several issues concerning the Sikh community across the country, and these can be resolved only by the government. I have always raised these issues. I discussed some with home minister Amit Shahji today. I’m happy to inform you that the minister said that he wants to address all these issues,” Sirsa said, adding, “In the national capital, Baba Banda Singh Bahadur Ji was martyred…But we couldn’t even get one university for the Sikh community in the past 70 years due to our weak leadership (it was unclear whether he was talking about the community or SAD leader). What’s the point if the concerns of the community which fights on the borders are not addressed for years? I’m joining the party (BJP) to work for our community, its welfare and continue humanitarian work.”Sirsa, who won the Delhi assembly election in 2013 and 2017, has been actively working as DSGMC president for the past few years. Under his leadership, the DSGMC was actively involved in providing medical facilities and other essential services during the peak of the Covid-19 pandemic, especially during the second wave when there was an oxygen crisis in the capital.Hours before he joined the BJP, Sirsa tweeted, “With gratitude to all office bearers, members, staff & people who worked with me; I am resigning from Delhi Sikh Gurudwara Management Committee as President. I will not contest the upcoming DSGMC internal elections. My commitment to serving my community, humanity & nation remains the same!”Akali Dal spokesperson Daljit Singh Cheema said the BJP poached Sirsa using pressure tactics by involving him in false cases. “Sirsa has been fighting for issues related to the Sikhs under difficult circumstances, but our party feels sad that he succumbed to the pressure this time. However, other leaders of our party, including Akali Dal’s Delhi unit President Harmeet Singh Kalka are standing tall against the odds,” he added.Also Read | A conspiracy and a new low: SAD on DSGMC chief Manjinder Sirsa’s switch to BJPShiromani Akali Dal left the National Democratic Alliance last year over the three contentious farm laws, which were recently repealed.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/sirsa-switches-over-to-bjp-before-punjab-polls-101638382757413.html
01-12-2021||India||CCS takes up ₹5.1k-cr AK-203 deal ahead of Putin’s visit||The Cabinet Committee on Security (CCS), headed by Prime Minister Narendra Modi, on Wednesday took up a ₹5,100-crore deal with Russia to jointly manufacture AK-203 assault rifles at a facility in Uttar Pradesh’s Amethi, ahead of Russian President Vladimir Putin’s two-day visit to India on December 6 for an annual summit with the Indian prime minister, officials familiar with the matter said on Wednesday.Also Read | PM Modi to host President Putin for one-to-one meeting on Dec 6The AK-203 deal was on the CCS’s agenda and a deal could be signed soon, said one of the persons cited above. There was no official word on the committee green-lighting the proposed deal, which was cleared by the defence ministry last month, as previously reported. HT spoke to four senior government officials, none of whom confirmed if CCS had cleared it, although the deal faces no hurdles and there’s no reason for any delay.All outstanding issues relating to cost and indigenous content in the weapons have been ironed out, and India is looking at an early conclusion of the deal, officials said last month.The joint venture between Kalashnikov and a new weapons manufacturing division carved out of the erstwhile Ordnance Factory Board (OFB) seeks to provide a push to the government’s Atmanirbhar Bharat Abhiyan (self-reliant India campaign).It envisages the production of up to 700,000 AK-203 assault rifles, and the Amethi facility is ready to kick off production next year once the deal is signed, officials said.Last month, the defence acquisition council (DAC) – India’s apex military procurement body – granted some key approvals to accelerate the acquisition of AK-203 assault rifles to be made in India with the transfer of technology from Russia.Putin’s two-day visit to India will have a major defence and security overhang. The delivery of the first squadron of S-400 air defence systems – part of a $5.4-billion contract with Russia for five systems – is expected to coincide with Putin’s visit.India and Russia last week announced they would hold the maiden 2+2 dialogue of their defence and foreign ministers on the margins of the annual summit between Modi and Putin.This will only be Putin’s second foreign visit since the Covid-19 outbreak – he travelled to Geneva in June for his first meeting with US President Joe Biden. Putin’s decision to travel to New Delhi reflects the importance attached by Russia to its special and privileged strategic partnership with India.Also Read | India-Russia 2+2 dialogue to be held on margins of Modi-Putin summit on Dec 6India and Russia are also expected to renew their military-technical cooperation arrangement for the period 2021-31 and sign several defence-related agreements during the summit. A key pact that could be inked is the Reciprocal Exchange of Logistics Agreement (RELOS), which will allow militaries of the two nations to access logistics and support facilities at each other’s bases.The government has taken several measures to boost self-reliance in the defence sector. These include raising the foreign direct investment limit in defence manufacturing, creating a separate budget for buying locally made military hardware and notifying 209 defence items, including assault rifles, which cannot be imported. India set aside ₹70,221 crores this year for domestic defence procurement, accounting for 63% of the military capital budget. Last year, the ministry spent more than ₹51,000 crores, or 58% of the capital budget, on domestic purchases.
01-12-2021||India||India joins G20 Troika, to work to ensure consistency of agenda||India on Wednesday joined the G20 Troika comprising the current, previous and incoming presidencies of the grouping, the Ministry of External Affairs said.The G20 Troika consists of Indonesia, Italy, and India. The G20 is the premier forum for international economic cooperation, which reflects a recognition that global prosperity is interdependent and the economic opportunities and challenges are interlinked, the MEA said in a statement. G20 countries have come together to better prepare for the future, it said. As a founding member of the G20, India has used the platform to raise issues of vital importance and those that impact on the most vulnerable around the world, the MEA said.Taking over from Italy, Indonesia assumed the G20 Presidency on Wednesday and will convene various G20 meetings throughout the year culminating with the G20 Leaders' Summit on October 30-31, 2022 under the overall theme of "Recover Together Recover Stronger". As a Troika-member, India will work closely with Indonesia and Italy to ensure consistency and continuity of the G20's agenda, the MEA said.India will assume the G20 Presidency on December 1, 2022 from Indonesia, and will convene the G20 Leaders' Summit for the first time in India in 2023.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/india-joins-g20-troika-to-work-to-ensure-consistency-of-agenda-101638381765336.html
01-12-2021||India||Centre issues FAQs for international passengers amid Omicron variant scare||As concerns over the new variant of coronavirus Omicron grew, the ministry of civil aviation (MoCA) on Wednesday issued a set of Frequently Asked Questions (FAQs) to clear the air regarding the rules and requirements concerning the international passengers arriving from 'at-risk' countries and other nations. The FAQs were issued for better understanding of the passengers and to enable them for a safe, secure and hassle-free international air travel, the ministry said, according to news agency PTI.Check out FAQs issued by the ministry of civil aviation here:Post-arrival testing can be exempted if a person is travelling from a not 'at-risk' country and has only a transit (without leaving immigration) in 'at-risk' country before taking the destination flight.“However, if the person has travelled to any at-risk country in the last 14 days, he/she will be asked for post-arrival testing and other additional restrictions...,” the release said.Once the negative report is received, the passenger may not wait for the report of all the co-passengers and can exit the airport or take a connecting flight.Notably, the 'at-risk' list issued by the Centre includes "countries in Europe including The United Kingdom", South Africa, Brazil, Botswana, China and Mauritius. Other countries in the list are New Zealand, Zimbabwe, Singapore, Hong Kong and Israel. (With inputs from agencies)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/centre-issues-faqs-for-international-passengers-amid-omicron-variant-scare-101638380997930.html
01-12-2021||India||Calcutta HC asks Bengal poll panel to file report on civic election plans||The Calcutta high court on Wednesday directed the West Bengal election commission to file a report by December 6 on how it plans to hold elections in the 120-odd municipal corporations and municipalities in the state apart from the Kolkata Municipal Corporation (KMC) where polls will be held on December 19. The division bench of Chief Justice Prakash Shrivastava and Justice Rajarshi Bhardwaj passed the direction after hearing arguments on a petition filed by the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) seeking simultaneous election in all civic bodies on a single day. The bench took on record the affidavit filed by the state election commission and the Bengal government that opposed the BJP’s demand citing logistical problems. The bench asked the state government to declare the time frame within which it wants to hold elections to the remaining municipal bodies. The ruling Trinamool Congress (TMC) controls most of the civic bodies in Bengal. The terms of the elected boards ended over the last two years but elections were not held because of the Covid-19 pandemic. As a stop-gap measure, the government appointed the elected heads of the civic boards as administrators. The state government wants to hold the civic polls in phases. It had planned to hold the elections in Kolkata and Howrah town on December 19 but the BJP moved the high court demanding simultaneous polls in all civic bodies across Bengal. The petition was filed by BJP state vice-president Pratap Banerjee who is also in charge of his party’s election committee for the Kolkata civic polls. Appearing for Banerjee, advocate Pinky Anand on Wednesday argued that the commission was deliberately staggering the election process at the behest of the state government. She raised objection to the November 25 notification for the KMC polls, saying the commission had promised to withhold the process till the hearing on the petition was over. She also prayed to the bench to quash the notification for the KMC elections. Anand argued that polls to the civic bodies were due before the Covid-19 pandemic started and hence these cannot be postponed citing health protocols as the situation has improved drastically. Appearing for the commission, advocate Jayanta Mitra told the bench that the commission did not tell the court during the first hearing of this case that it would stop the election process altogether. After hearing both sides the Chief Justice wanted to know how much time the commission needs to decide the election schedule. He also went through the record on availability of electronic voting machines and asked if the polls could be held in two phases. Appearing for the state government, advocate general S N Mookherjee said the KMC polls were being held first because of the better vaccination status of Kolkata residents and healthcare facilities in the city. He opposed the petition seeking simultaneous polls and said there was no Constitutional provision that made this mandatory. The matter will be heard again on December 6.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/calcutta-hc-asks-bengal-poll-panel-to-file-report-on-civic-election-plans-101638381255950.html
01-12-2021||India||Supreme Court gives bail to 74-yr-old arrested in 2012 NIA case against Maoists||Keeping a person in jail without a speedy trial violates the constitutional guarantee of the right to life, the Supreme Court observed on Wednesday as it ordered the release on bail for a 74-year-old retired man arrested by the National Investigating Agency (NIA) in July 2012 on charges that he helped Maoists.A bench of justices Ajay Rastogi and Abhay S Oka said the charges against the accused “are undoubtedly serious but the charges will have to be balanced with certain other factors like the period of incarceration which the appellant has undergone and the likelihood period within which the trial can be expected to be finally concluded.”Asim Kumar Haranath Bhattacharya, who faces multiple charges along with 13 others under various provisions of the Unlawful Activities (Prevention) Act (UAPA), Indian Penal Code (IPC), Explosive Substances Act and Arms Act, was arrested by NIA in 2012, allegedly on charges that he helped Maoists make weapons.Bhattacharya was arrested in a case linked to March 2012 raids by a joint team of Bengal and Andhra Pradesh police at locations that allegedly led authorities to weapon-making units to fabricate weapons such as rocket launchers, land mines and hand grenades. A top Maoist leader Sadanala Ramakrishna was also arrested in this case.NIA filed the first charge sheet in the case in August 2012 - the last one was filed in July 2017 - and the designated court framed charges against the accused in 2019.The bench noted that NIA was unable to indicate a definite time period for completing the trial and noted, on perusal of records, that the trial court on average was taking up this case once every month since there was only one NIA special court in West Bengal.“Deprivation of personal liberty without ensuring speedy trial is not consistent with Article 21 of the Constitution (right to life),” the two judges observed.“While deprivation of personal liberty for some period may not be avoidable, period of deprivation pending trial/appeal cannot be unduly long. At the same time, timely delivery of justice is part of human rights and denial of speedy justice is a threat to public confidence in the administration of justice,” the judges ruled, underlining that NIA Act mandated day-to-day trial of cases.The court also noted that the law allowed the special court to give priority to try offences investigated by NIA over other cases.“If this procedure is being followed in conducting the trial under the 2008 NIA Act, it frustrates the very purpose with which the special courts are designated,” the top court said.The bench also ordered the West Bengal government to designate more courts as special courts to try cases investigated by NIA. At the same time, the bench also directed the Centre to take up the matter with the chief justice of Calcutta high court to ensure that trials pending under NIA Act are expedited.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/supreme-court-gives-bail-to-74-yr-old-arrested-in-2012-nia-case-against-maoists-101638380175712.html
01-12-2021||India||Make Gorukhuti an example of Assamese pride, says CM 2 months after eviction drive||Two months after clashes between police and settlers left two dead and 18 injured during an eviction drive, Assam Chief Minister Himanta Biswa Sarma visited the site in Darrang district on Wednesday and urged people to make the area an example of Assamese pride. Two civilians were killed in police action on September 23 at Dholpur in Darrang district as part of the state government’s move to evict nearly 77,000 ‘bighas’ of encroachers to make way for Gorukhuti Project, an ambitious agricultural scheme for indigenous youth. “Let us make Gorukhuti a shining example of Assamese pride and prestige which will inspire our youth to work hard and prosper. Assamese defeated Mughals 17 times and it is time to regain our lost glory with hard work and dedication,” Sarma said during his day-long visit to the area. This was Sarma’s second visit to the area since assuming charge in May this year. It was following his first visit in June that the state government decided to evict illegal settlers, most of whom are Bengali-speaking Muslims, and start the Gorukhuti multipurpose agricultural project. Stating that Assamese people have been resilient against outside aggressors, Sarma said that the time has come to prove that again by taking control of the state’s farming lands. Appreciating the work done following eviction of settlers, the CM urged everyone to support the project so that it can become one of the best agriculture projects in India. “We have to import egg, fish, chicken, pork from outside and to prevent this Assam must become self-reliant for its food products to become a developed state,” he said. Sarma informed that over 5000 ‘bighas’ of land at Gorukhuti have been turned into agricultural fields of which 2731 ‘bighas’ have been used for mustard cultivation. He urged youths to take up agriculture instead of running after government jobs. During his visit, the CM laid the foundation of a prayer hall and weaving centre, distributed warm clothes to over 600 ‘agro soldiers’, visited the agriculture fields and piggery and distributed farm equipment and goods carrying vehicles to the project. Sarma also visited the ‘goshala’ (cow shelter) set up in the area with high-yielding breeds of cattle imported from Gujarat. He also launched a fishery, solar power project and afforestation drive. 
01-12-2021||India||Over 2 million Indian accounts banned by WhatsApp in October: Compliance Report||Over 2 million Indian accounts were banned by WhatsApp, while 500 grievance reports were received by the messaging platform in October, according to its compliance report.In its latest report released on Monday, WhatsApp said 2,069,000 Indian accounts were banned on WhatsApp during the said period.An Indian account is identified via a 91 phone number, it added."WhatsApp is an industry leader in preventing abuse, among end-to-end encrypted messaging services. Over the years, we have consistently invested in Artificial Intelligence and other state-of-the-art technology, data scientists and experts, and in processes, in order to keep our users safe on our platform," a WhatsApp spokesperson said.In accordance with the IT Rules 2021, the platform has published its fifth monthly report for the month of October, the spokesperson said."This user-safety report contains details of the user complaints received and the corresponding action taken by WhatsApp, as well as WhatsApp's own preventive actions to combat abuse on our platform. As captured in the latest monthly report, WhatsApp banned over 2 million accounts in the month of October," the spokesperson said.Previously, the Facebook-owned company had stated that more than 95 per cent of bans are due to the unauthorised use of automated or bulk messaging (spam). The global average number of accounts that WhatsApp bans to prevent abuse on its platform is around 8 million accounts per month.Over 2.2 million Indian accounts were banned by WhatsApp, while 560 grievance reports were received by the messaging platform in the month of September.WhatsApp, in its latest report, said it received 500 user reports spanning across account support (146), ban appeal (248), other support (42), product support (53), and safety (11) during October.During this period, 18 accounts were "actioned" under the ban appeal category based on the reports received.WhatsApp explained that "Accounts Actioned" denotes reports where it took remedial action based on the report.Taking action denotes either banning an account or a previously banned account being restored as a result of the complaint.Also, reports may have been reviewed but not included as 'Actioned' for many reasons, including the user needing assistance to access their account or to use some features, user-requested restoration of a banned account and the request is denied, or if the reported account does not violate the laws of India or WhatsApp's Terms of Service.The new IT rules - which came into effect in May - require large digital platforms (with over 5 million users) to publish compliance reports every month, mentioning the details of complaints received and action taken.Previously, WhatsApp had emphasised that being an end-to-end encrypted platform, it has no visibility into the content of any messages.Besides, the behavioural signals from accounts, it relies on available unencrypted information, including user reports, profile photos, group photos, and descriptions as well as advanced AI tools and resources to detect and prevent abuse on its platform, it had said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/over-2-million-indian-accounts-banned-by-whatsapp-in-october-compliance-report-101638378511166.html
01-12-2021||India||'Trying to give 75% reservation to all locals in Haryana': Dushyant Chautala||The Haryana government is trying to give 75 per cent reservation to locals in multiple job sectors, deputy chief minister Dushyant Chautala said on Wednesday. His comments come in connection with Haryana State Employment of Local Candidates Act, 2020, which will be applicable from January 15, 2022.“We're trying to give 75 per cent reservation to all Haryana residents in the state's multiple industries before January 15,” news agency ANI quoted Chautala has saying at a press conference in Rohtak.In November, the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP)-Jannayak Janta Party (JJP) government had notified the law to implement 75 per cent job reservations for locals in the private sector. It envisages reservation for local youth in the private sector with an upper limit of gross monthly salary upto ₹30,000.The Haryana assembly had passed the legislation on November 5 last year, and the governor gave his assent to the bill on March 2 this year.The law will be applicable for a period of 10 years. The state government also relaxed the residency (domicile) requirement from 15 to five years for a person to get a bona fide resident certificate in the state to provide some flexibility to the private companies in hiring.Defending the move, chief minister Manohar Lal Khattar had said that the need of the hour is to create a harmonious environment for industry as well as the youth along with creating the right balance between the progress of industries and the economy.India Inc, however, called for a re-look at the legislation, saying it could lead to multinational firms moving out of the state.The private sector job quota move was piloted by Dushyant Chautala’s JJP, coalition partner of the BJP in Haryana.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/trying-to-give-75-reservation-to-all-locals-in-haryana-dushyant-chautala-101638378308599.html
01-12-2021||India||All steps taken to control pollution due to Central Vista construction: Centre tells SC||The Centre has informed the Supreme Court that the work on the new Parliament and Central Vista Redevelopment does not cause pollution as every measure has been taken to arrest the dust rising from these projects.In an affidavit filed on Wednesday in the Supreme Court, which is monitoring the air pollution levels due to dust and stubble burning in a petition filed by a minor, Aditya Dubey, the Centre said, “As far as the Parliament building and Central Vista Avenue site is concerned, it complies with construction and demolition (C&D) waste management rules and each and every condition which is put to ensure that it does not cause any pollution.”Delhi’s air quality index (AQI) reached hazardous levels by Wednesday evening, recording an average of 374. The Supreme Court bench headed by the chief justice of India (CJI) will take up the petition along with the affidavit on Thursday.At the last hearing earlier this week, the Court had asked the government to take instructions on whether the Central Vista project or related construction work contributed to the air pollution in the Capital. This fact was brought to the top court’s notice by senior advocate Vikas Singh appearing for the petitioner. He wondered how Central Vista work was going on when the Supreme Court had re-imposed the ban on all construction activities in Delhi-NCR from November 24, with the exception of permitting non-polluting activities such as plumbing work, interior decoration, electrical work and carpentry.The affidavit filed by Ravi Kumar Verma, Director, Central Vista in the ministry of housing and urban affairs said, “So far as construction of new Parliament building and redevelopment of Central Vista Avenue is concerned, the respondent (Centre) has taken all measures as contemplated under C&D waste management rules which includes measures like use of anti-smog gun, mist spray system, use of dust suppressant like magnesium chloride, use of conveyor belt to transfer construction material, keeping all construction material in wet condition, etc.”The Centre indicated that apart from the Central Vista and new Parliament projects, all remaining construction activities undertaken by the Central Public Works Department (CPWD) in Delhi and the national capital region have been stopped.The commission for air quality management for NCR and adjoining areas, the statutory body monitoring pollution from all sources in Capital, had on November 16 passed a slew of directions, including a ban on all construction activities. But as the air quality improved in Delhi, the ban was lifted by the commission on November 21.The top court was not impressed with ad hoc measures and directed the commission to carry out a detailed study by engaging expert agencies with domain knowledge in meteorological data and statistical modelling. The judges said, “The Commission must commission a scientific study of air quality based on available data of previous years bearing upon recorded levels of air pollution. The study must factor in seasonal variations and other relevant parameters.”The Court was of the view that once a scientific model is available, factoring wind velocity as well as natural and man-made phenomena, “the graded response plan can be modulated to provide for measures being taken in advance, based on anticipated changes in air quality without waiting for the air quality to deteriorate.” The Commission was asked to carry out this exercise within a month and report compliance to the Court. In the meantime, the top court directed the Centre and states in NCR to take appropriate steps to deal with the deteriorating pollution situation.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/all-steps-taken-to-control-pollution-due-to-central-vista-construction-centre-tells-sc-101638377595242.html
01-12-2021||India||HT THIS DAY: December 2, 1949 — UN assembly rejects soviet plan for 5-power peace pact||Flushing Meadows- The 59 Nation U.N. General Assembly today (December 1) rejected the Soviet Union’s call for a five-Power peace pact and adopted a counter Anglo-U.S. resolution calling on U.N. members to obey the principles of peace laid down in the Charter. The Anglo-U.S. resolution also called on U.N. members to co-operate to obtain international regulations on conventional armaments and control of atomic energy so as to restrict it to peaceful purposes and on the five permanent members of the Security Council-Britain, the U.S.A., the Soviet Union, France and China-to exercise restraint in the use of the veto. The resolution was carried by an overwhelming vote of 53 in favour, only the Soviet Union, Byelo-Russia, the Ukraine, Poland and Czechoslovakia opposing it, while Yugoslavia abstained. The resolution, containing 12 points, was voted on paragraph by paragraph. Between 51 and 54 nations favoured each clause, while the Soviet Union and Eastern European countries, excluding Yugoslavia, varied between negative votes and abstentions. Voting on the Soviet recommendations for a five-Power peace pact was opposed by 41 nations with ten abstentions. The paragraph of the Soviet resolution condemning “preparations for a new war now being conducted in a number of countries particularly in the U.S.A. and the United Kingdom” was opposed by all except the Soviet group, with Yugoslavia and Yemen abstaining. Thirty-nine nations voted against that part of the Soviet resolution calling for unconditional prohibition of atomic weapons enforced by international control. Fifteen abstained. Today’s vote ended one of the most heated debates during the present Assembly session.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/htthisday-december-2-1949-un-assembly-rejects-soviet-plan-for-5-power-peace-pact-101638373457047.html
01-12-2021||India||States owe staggering sums towards crop insurance subsidy: Centre tells Parliament||Several large states have yet to pay thousands of crores towards their share of subsidy for premiums under the flagship farm insurance programme, the Pradhan Mantri Fasal Bima Yojana, delaying payouts to cultivators amid rising climate risks to farming. Subsidy state governments owe over the past three financial years in a row stood at ₹4,744 crore as on November 24, 2021, according to figures revealed by agriculture minister Narendra Singh Tomar in Parliament in a written reply. Premiums under the crop insurance premium are arrived at through a bidding process, depending on the nature of risks, cropping season and agro-climatic zones. Farmers who opt for crop insurance have to pay 2% for kharif or summer-sown crops and 1.5% for rabi-sown food crops and oilseeds. For commercial and horticultural crops, cultivators have to pay 5% of the fixed premium. The balance is paid by the central and state governments, shared on a 50:50 basis. The share is 90:10 in case of north-eastern states. Delay in paying compensation for crops ruined by weather shocks and payment of subsidies can push millions of farmers into poverty, leaving them with little money for the next sowing season. Also, payment delays hamper farmers’ ability to service their agricultural loans, pushing them closer to the brink of default. For 2020-21, Maharashtra had the highest pending amount of ₹1,345.86 crore, the figures showed. Tamil Nadu owed the next highest sum of ₹879 crore, followed by Rajasthan’s ₹246 crore. The total pending amount for the year by states stands at 2,863.79 crore. “Some states have not released their share of premium subsidies for certain seasons, however, any specific reasons for such default have not been communicated,” the minister said in his written reply. For 2019-20, the total amount owed by states towards premium subsidy stood at 1,558.28 crore. Gujarat owes the highest amount at ₹858.72 for that year, followed by Telangana’s outstanding of ₹320.64 crore. For 2018-19, the total due pending from states stood at ₹321 crore. The premium rate of crops depends on the risks and the total liability of the state depends on actuarial premium rate, sum insured of crops, the total area insured and the number of crops notified by the states. 
01-12-2021||India||Amid Omicron scare, 3 Covid positive foreigners in Vrindavan leave India without informing authorities: Report||As many as three foreign devotees, who were found to be infected with the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) in Uttar Pradesh’s Vrindavan, have left India without informing the authorities, news agency PTI reported citing officials.Four non-Indians were recently found to be Covid-19 positive in the pilgrim town of Vrindavan, which draws multiple foreigners all year long.On Wednesday, Vrindavan coronavirus control room in-charge Bhudev Prasad Singh told PTI that the number of the infected foreign devotees in the city has now shot up to 10. Chief medical officer Dr Rachna Gupta confirmed the same, and added that of the 10 infected foreigners, three have returned to their home country.The CMO said that police have been informed about the three foreigners, who left Vrindavan without informing the authorities and thereby defying Covid-19 protocols.On Monday, Hindustan Times reported that an Austrian woman aged 41 became the fourth foreign national to test positive for Covid-19 in Vrindavan, a health official said. She was residing in the same ashram where three other foreigners – also Europeans, were found to be infected with the virus.Notably, the three other infected Europeans hailed from Lithuania, Spain and Switzerland. All the four samples were sent to labs in Lucknow for genome sequencing to find out if they are omicron variant of Covid-19.The latest PTI report, however, doesn’t specify if the three foreign nationals who returned to their homeland are the aforementioned Europeans.Omicron variant, which was first discovered in South Africa, has so far spread to more than a dozen nations, including the UK, Japan, Israel and Canada. The strain has been classified as a ‘variant of concern’ by the World Health Organisation (WHO). Scientists have noted that Omicron can undergo multiple mutations – about 50, in the spike protein, which determines how fast the virus can spread among people.India on Wednesday deferred the resumption of international flights from December 15 onwards amid Omicron scare, and also laid down revised guidelines for all international travellers.India is among more than 50 countries that have tightened its security as well as Covid-19 norms amid the emergency of Omicron Covid-19 variant – all in the hope of combatting this new strain after the Delta variant. Several countries, including the US, UK, and Japan, have also imposed travel bans from affected nations of southern Africa.However, the WHO on Tuesday discouraged blanket travel bans, and said that the move will not prevent the “international spread” of the Omicron Covid-19 variant, but will “place a heavy burden on lives and livelihoods,” AFP reported.The United Nations (UN) health agency recommended that people who are sick or at risk of developing severe Covid-19 and dying of it, “including people 60 years of age or older or those with co-morbidities,” should postpone their travel plans.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/3-covid-positive-foreigners-leave-india-without-informing-authorities-report-101638372260106.html
01-12-2021||India||News updates from HT: EU special envoy on Afghanistan visits Delhi and all the latest news||Here are today’s top news, analysis and opinion. Know all about the latest news and other news updates from Hindustan Times.India and the European Union (EU) had an opportunity to exchange notes and discuss the way forward in Afghanistan as EU special envoy Tomas Niklasson visited New Delhi on Wednesday. Read morePakistan has issued visas to more than 130 Indians to visit the country for the birth anniversary celebrations of Hindu saint Shiv Avtari Satguru Sant Shadaram Sahib in the Sindh province, the high commission to India said on Wednesday. Read moreThe grand Kashi Vishwanath Corridor, which connects the Ganga river and the famous and ancient Kashi Vishwanath temple (of Lord Shiva) in Uttar Pradesh's Varanasi, is nearing completion, the city's divisional commissioner Deepak Agarwal said on Wednesday. Read moreTeam India produced an impressive outing with the ball in the first Test against New Zealand in Kanpur. The visitors barely clung to a draw after Ajaz Patel and Rachin Ravindra survived in the fag hours of the final day against India's spin-heavy attack. Read moreAhan Shetty and Tara Sutaria's Tadap got a star-studded premiere in Mumbai on Wednesday. Ahan arrived with his girlfriend Tania Shroff for the screening. Read more||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/news-updates-from-ht-eu-special-envoy-on-afghanistan-visits-delhi-and-all-the-latest-news-101638371826893.html
01-12-2021||India||6 test Covid positive on Day 1 of new guidelines, samples sent for Omicron test||The Centre said that it found six coronavirus disease (Covid-19) positive cases after screening 3,476 passengers from "at risk" countries on the first day of the implementation of the revised travel guidelines.The Centre said that it found six coronavirus disease (Covid-19) positive cases after screening 3,476 passengers from "at risk" countries on the first day of the implementation of the revised travel guidelines.|#+|Also Read | Comprehensive list of guidelines implemented by IndiaThese passengers came from 11 flights which landed at various airports of the country from midnight to 4 pm on Wednesday (December 1).All 3,476 passengers were administered RT-PCR tests, the government further said.The samples of Covid-19 positive passengers have been sent to INSACOG labs for genomic sequencing to identify if they contain the new Omicron variant. The government said that it continues to keep track of the evolving situation.Also Read | Eye on Omicron: India defers resumption of international flightsFour of the passengers, who tested positive today, flew into Delhi from the Netherlands and the United Kingdom. All four have been admitted to the LNJP Hospital, where a dedicated ward has been set up for isolating and treating such patients, they added."Four flights originating from Amsterdam and London and carrying 1,013 passengers landed at the Indira Gandhi International Airport between 12 night and 6 am. Of these passengers, four have tested positive," news agency PTI reported quoting officials.According to the Centre, the countries designated as "at-risk" are European countries, including the UK, and South Africa, Brazil, Botswana, China, Mauritius, New Zealand, Zimbabwe, Singapore, Hong Kong and Israel.Travellers from these "at-risk" countries are following additional measures on arrival in India from Tuesday midnight.Under the new norms, RT-PCR tests are mandatory for passengers arriving from the "at-risk" countries and they will be allowed to leave the airport only after the results come.Also, five per cent of the passengers arriving in flights from other countries will be subject to the test randomly.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/6-test-covid-positive-on-day-1-of-new-guidelines-samples-sent-for-omicron-test-101638371390430.html
01-12-2021||India||EU special envoy on Afghanistan Tomas Niklasson visits New Delhi||India and the European Union (EU) had an opportunity to exchange notes and discuss the way forward in Afghanistan as EU special envoy Tomas Niklasson visited New Delhi on Wednesday. Niklasson travelled to India after holding talks in Doha over the weekend with a Taliban delegation led by acting foreign minister Amir Khan Muttaqi. The EU made it clear the two-day dialogue did not imply recognition of the interim government in Kabul but was part of an “operational engagement in the interest of the EU and the Afghan people”.This is Niklasson’s first visit to India since he became the special envoy and comes weeks after India hosted a meeting of top security officials of regional countries, including Iran and Russia, to discuss the situation in Afghanistan. Foreign secretary Harsh Shringla met Niklasson on Wednesday and exchanged views on the “current situation in Afghanistan” and agreed to “continue the ongoing coordination between India & EU on Afghanistan”, according to external affairs ministry spokesperson Arindam Bagchi.Security ties between India and the EU have been on the upswing in recent years in areas ranging from the Indo-Pacific to maritime security. People familiar with the matter said on condition of anonymity that the EU special envoy’s visit will be an opportunity for the two sides to exchange views on the latest developments in Afghanistan, including the urgent need to provide humanitarian aid to the Afghan people. The people further said that India’s position on Afghanistan remains unchanged and is based on the UN Security Council resolution 2593, which calls for the formation of an inclusive government and steps to ensure that Afghan soil is not used to plan and execute terrorist actions against other countries. India has no immediate plans to reopen its embassy in Kabul, which was closed after all the diplomats and security personnel were evacuated in August, the people said.The immediate focus for India is ensuring unhindered and unimpeded access for humanitarian efforts in order to rush relief materials and medicines to the Afghan people as winter sets in, the people added. The Taliban delegation led by Muttaqi also held talks in Doha with the new US special representative on Afghanistan, Thomas West, who emphasised the “importance of the Taliban fulfilling its public commitment not to allow anyone to pose a threat to any country from the soil of Afghanistan” and the protection of the rights of all Afghan citizens.The US side indicated there were no plans to lift American sanctions, as the treasury department had issued general licenses for the continued flow of humanitarian aid to Afghanistan. The EU delegation, in its talks with the Taliban, highlighted the importance of democracy and called on the interim government to take “swift, meaningful and concrete steps towards an inclusive government” with all ethnic, political and religious affiliations in order to pave the way for national reconciliation.
01-12-2021||India||122 new Kendriya Vidyalayas set up in last five years: Centre||A total of 122 new central government-run Kendriya Vidyalayas (KVs) have opened in the country in the last five years, the Union ministry of education has informed Parliament on Wednesday.Responding to a written question regarding the government’s initiative on opening new KVs in the last five years, Union education minister Dharmendra Pradhan said that between 2016 and 2021, 122 new KVs have been set up across the country.The Kendriya Vidyalayas Sangathan, an autonomous body under the ministry of education, runs 1,248 KVs across the country. As many as 1,43,7363 students are benefiting from these schools.According to the data provided by the ministry to the Upper House on Wednesday, of these 122 new KVs, 18 have come up in Madhya Pradesh, 13 in Uttar Pradesh (13), nine in Jharkhand, eight each in Haryana, Chhattisgarh, Odisha and Rajasthan, and seven in Karnataka, among others.Pradhan also informed that efforts are being made to fill up vacancies in KVs. “Filling up of vacancies is a continuous process and action is taken from time to time as per the provisions of the relevant recruitment rules...Teachers are also engaged on contractual basis for temporary duration by KVS to ensure that the teaching-learning process is not hampered,” the minister said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/122-new-kendriya-vidyalayas-set-up-in-last-five-years-centre-101638369734414.html
01-12-2021||India||Looked impossible, but Kashi Vishwanath Corridor almost complete, say officials||The grand Kashi Vishwanath Corridor, which connects the Ganga river and the famous and ancient Kashi Vishwanath temple (of Lord Shiva) in Uttar Pradesh's Varanasi, is nearing completion, the city's divisional commissioner Deepak Agarwal said on Wednesday. PM Modi is due to inaugurate it on December 13.“The corridor has decongested the temple complex, which was earlier surrounded by buildings on three sides. The project will connect the two things Varanasi is well known for - the Kashi Vishwanath Temple (KVT) and the Ganga river,” Agarwal said while speaking to the media persons at a press briefing. The corridor is built over 5.5 lakh square feet.Prime Minister Modi laid the foundation of the corridor in March, 2019. Over 300 buildings were purchased and demolished to create the space for the project. Chief minister Yogi Adityanath has inspected the work on it three dozen times.Agarwal said initially it looked like an impossible thing considering the dense structure of the temple premises. "But, with the organised and dedicated efforts of both the Centre and the state governments, despite two waves of the Covid-19 pandemic, the entire process is being completed in record time with utmost transparency," he added."The project was taken forward on a war-footing basis right from getting the properties vacated to compensating the owners," he further said, adding, "The execution of the project was done in the most transparent manner, as a result of which the project faced no litigations."The demolition of buildings in the corridor area led to the recovery of at least 40 ancient temples. All these temples were buried under other construction around them and people had built kitchens, bathrooms and much more atop them.They are now visible, will be preserved and opened to the public.The architect of the project Bimal Patel, who was also present at briefing, informed that without tampering with the original structure of the Kashi Vishwanath Temple, the facilities for the tourists have been increased.“The work includes construction of Temple Chowk, Varanasi city gallery, museum, multipurpose auditoriums, hall, devotee facilitation centre, public convenience, salvation home, Godowlia gate, Bhogshala, shelter for priests and sevadars, spiritual book space, and others. About 70% of the 5.50 lakh sqft area of the project would be kept open for the green cover,” informed Patel.Divisional commissioner Deepak Agarwal said that nearly ₹1,000 crore has been spent on the entire project, which includes ₹70 crore spent on the rehabilitation of people living in the redeveloped area.An over 7,000 square metre temple platform for meditation for 10,000 people, seven grand entrance gates, a cafeteria, a food court, a Vedic and spiritual library, a virtual gallery, tourist centre, a multi-purpose hall, and a security hall are part of the corridor. A special sky beam light system was also being installed along the corridor.Over seven million devotees and tourists visit the Kashi Vishwanath Temple annually. On average, over 10,000 devotees, mostly from Varanasi and adjoining areas, visit it daily. On Mondays, over 40,000 to 50,000 people offer prayers at the temple. The number goes up to 30,00,00 on Mondays during the holy month of Shravan (July-August).||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/looked-impossible-but-kashi-vishwanath-corridor-almost-complete-say-officials-101638368270923.html
01-12-2021||India||‘Only govt can resolve’: Akali Dal’s Delhi leader explains why he joined BJP||NEW DELHI: Shiromani Akali Dal leader Manjinder Singh Sirsa, one of the party’s most prominent faces in national capital Delhi, on Wednesday joined the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP), hours after he resigned as the president of Delhi Sikh Gurdwara Management Committee (DSGMC).“There are several issues concerning the Sikh community across the country and these can be resolved only by the government. I have always raised these issues. I discussed some of the issues faced by the community with home minister Amit Shahji today. I’m happy to inform you that the minister said that he wants to address all these issues,” Sirsa said after making the switch ahead of the Punjab elections.The two-time former legislator from Rajouri Garden in west Delhi joined the BJP in the presence of Union ministers Gajendra Singh Shekhawat and Dharmendra Pradhan, and other senior leaders. He also met Union home minister Amit Shah and BJP president JP Nadda.The Akali Dal, which left the BJP-led National Democratic Alliance last year over the now-repealed three contentious farm laws, mounted a strident attack on the BJP, alleging that the ruling party arm-twisted Sirsa into joining the party.SAD spokesperson Daljit Singh Cheema said the BJP poached the Akali leader using pressure tactics by involving him in false cases. “Sirsa has been fighting for issues related to the Sikhs under difficult circumstances but our party feels sad that he succumbed to the pressure this time. However other leaders of our party including Akali Dal’s Delhi unit President Harmeet Singh Kalka are standing tall against the odds,” he added.Sirsa told reporters that he was joining the BJP to work for his community, its welfare and to continue humanitarian work.“There are several issues concerning the Sikh community which are unresolved for the past 70 years. In the national capital, Baba Banda Singh Bahadurji was martyred…But we couldn’t even get one university for the Sikh community in the past 70 years due to our weak leadership... What’s the point if the concerns of the community, which fights on the borders, are not addressed for years?” he said.Sirsa, who won the Delhi assembly election in 2013 and 2017, has been Delhi Sikh Gurudwara Management Committee (DSGMC) president for the past few years. Under his leadership, DSGMC was actively involved in providing medical facilities and other essential services during the peak of the Covid-19 pandemic, especially during the second wave when there was an oxygen crisis in the capital.Hours before he joined the BJP, Sirsa tweeted a thank you note to his former colleagues at the gurudwara body, “With gratitude to all office bearers, members, staff & people who worked with me; I am resigning from Delhi Sikh Gurudwara Management Committee as President. I will not contest upcoming DSGMC internal elections. My commitment to serve my community, humanity & nation remains same!”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/only-govt-can-resolve-akali-dal-s-delhi-leader-explains-why-he-joined-bjp-101638367514126.html
01-12-2021||India||Akali Dal leader Manjinder Singh Sirsa joins BJP ahead of Punjab polls||Shiromani Akali Dal leader Manjinder Singh Sirsa on Wednesday joined the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) in the presence of Union ministers Dharmendra Pradhan and Gajendra Singh Shekhawat, reported news agency ANI.A prominent face of the Akali Dal in the national capital, Manjinder Singh Sirsa quit as president of Delhi Sikh Gurdwara Management Committee (DSGMC) hours before joining the BJP.While addressing the media, Sirsa said, “There are several issues concerning the Sikh community across the country and these can be resolved only by the government. I have always raised these issues. I discussed some of the issues faced by the community with home minister Amit Shahji today. I’m happy to inform you that the minister said that he wants to address all these issues.”“There are several issues concerning the Sikh community which are unresolved for the past 70 years. In the national capital, Baba Banda Singh Bahadurji was martyred…But we couldn’t even get one university for the Sikh community in the past 70 years due to our weak leadership (Akali). What’s the point if the concerns of the community, which fights on the borders, are not addressed for years? I’m joining the party (BJP) to work for our community, its welfare and continue humanitarian work.”He has also been a strong supporter of the farmers' protests against the three farm laws, which were repealed by the Centre recently.Manjinder Singh Sirsa's induction into the BJP comes ahead of the crucial Punjab assembly polls, which Shekhawat, who is the BJP's in-charge for the upcoming Punjab assembly polls, said will help the party in the state elections.Pradhan said the BJP will be strengthened with Sirsa's induction and added that he had quit his position in the DSGMC before joining the party.Parliament recently passed a bill to annul the three laws in what has been seen as the BJP's effort to placate the protesting farmers, a large number of whom are Sikhs from Punjab.The assembly elections to Punjab are slated to be held early next year.(With agency inputs)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/akali-dal-leader-manjinder-singh-sirsa-joins-bjp-ahead-of-punjab-polls-101638367117024.html
01-12-2021||India||Pakistan issues visas to Indian pilgrims to visit Shadani Darbar in Sindh||Pakistan has issued visas to more than 130 Indians to visit the country for the birth anniversary celebrations of Hindu saint Shiv Avtari Satguru Sant Shadaram Sahib in the Sindh province, the high commission to India said on Wednesday.“Today, Pakistan High Commission in Delhi issued 136 visas to Indian Hindu pilgrims,” an official of the Pakistan high commission was quoted as saying by news agency ANI.“They are visiting Pakistan to participate in the 313th birth anniversary celebrations of Shiv Avtari Satguru Sant Shadaram Sahib at Shadani Darbar Hayat Pitafi in Sindh from December 4-15,”Last year, the high commission said 44 Indian pilgrims visited Pakistan to participate in celebrations marking the 312th birth anniversary of Shadaram Sahib from December 15 to December 21.Also read | ‘Pleasing that Kartapur corridor has reopened’: PM Modi in address to the nationShadani Darbar in Sukkur was founded in 1786 by Sant Shadaram Sahib, who was born in Lahore in 1708. The temple is more than three centuries old and is visited by devotees from around the world.The Pakistan high commission also issued visas to a group of 47 Indian pilgrims in 2020 to visit Katas Raj temple in Chakwal district of Punjab during December 23-20. The temple is also known as Qila Katas.Sikh and Hindu pilgrims from India visit Pakistan under the bilateral Protocol on Visits to Religious Shrines of 1974 to participate in religious festivals and events every year.The Kartarpur Corridor, which allows Indian nationals to make visa-free visits to the gurdwara built at the site in Pakistan where Guru Nanak spent the final years of his life, was recently reopened.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/pakistan-issues-visas-to-indian-pilgrims-to-visit-shadani-darbar-in-sindh-101638365358837.html
01-12-2021||India||Three killed in explosion at fireworks factory in Bengal village||Three people were killed and two injured in an explosion at a fireworks factory at Mohanpur village in the Nodakhali area of Bengal’s South 24 Parganas district on Wednesday morning, police said. Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) leaders claimed that according to locals five men were killed. This was, however, not confirmed by the police. The factory was located inside a residential building in a densely populated area, said a local police officer who did not want to be named. The village is located around 45 km to the south of Kolkata. “A probe is on. Local people said the house belonged to Ashim Mondal. It was damaged in the explosion which also set the building on fire. The bodies were badly charred. The incident happened early in the morning. We are trying to find out if the factory had a licence,” the officer added. A police contingent rushed to the spot. Senior district police officers did not make any official statement on the identity of the victims till 4 pm. “The incident has reminded us once again that West Bengal is sitting on a keg of gunpowder. The area where the explosion took place today is known for criminal activities. The area witnessed violence after the recent assembly polls. The explosion should be probed and the culprits booked immediately,” said BJP national vice-president Dilip Ghosh. TMC leaders did not react to the BJP’s allegation. Partha Sarathi Ghosh, inspector-in-charge of Nodakhali police station, told HT that two of the victims were men while one was a woman. “The deceased used to live in that house. Investigation has revealed that it was a small factory where sparklers, rockets etc. used to be made before festivals. We have not found any evidence of terrorist activity that is being alleged,” said Ghosh, indirectly hinting at the BJP leaders. The Bengal BJP, however, mounted pressure on the ruling party since Nodakhali is part of the Diamond Harbour Lok Sabha constituency represented by TMC national general secretary and chief minister Mamata Banerjee’s nephew Abhishek Banerjee. “The National Investigation Agency (NIA) should take up this investigation as this is not the first time that explosives have claimed lives in Bengal. I will write to Union home minister Amit Shah and urge him to order an NIA probe,” said BJP state president Sukanta Majumdar.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/three-killed-in-explosion-at-fireworks-factory-in-bengal-village-101638365713903.html
01-12-2021||India||These southern states to get above normal rainfall from Dec till Feb: IMD||Most states in the Indian peninsular region will continue to receive heavy rainfall until February, the India Meteorological Department (IMD) said on Wednesday.This forecast comes after the peninsular region logged the highest-ever rainfall in November since 1901 with the southern states of Kerala, Puducherry, Tamil Nadu, Andhra Pradesh and south interior Karnataka – which includes Bengaluru — receiving 169% excess showers.The weather department on Wednesday made a forecast of above-normal rainfall between December and February in coastal Andhra Pradesh, south interior Karnataka, inner Puducherry, Tamil Nadu, Kerala, and Rayalaseema.The IMD, however, predicted below-normal rainfall in the northwestern India's regions, thereby the area’s average temperature is likely to stay normal. Haryana, Punjab and west Rajasthan are some of the states where the normal average temperature is expected between December and February.Also Read | Parts of Mumbai, Thane may see heavy rain today, cyclone alert for Odisha on SaturdayThe Met department said that while it’s difficult to predict if the temperature in east and west Uttar Pradesh, Gujarat and east Rajasthan will be “above or below normal,” the “maximum temperature” in these regions is likely to stay below-normal.The highest rainfall in the peninsular region happened primarily because of five low-pressure systems over the Andaman Sea in November, and also the active phase of northeast monsoon last month.Meanwhile, a cyclone alert has been issued in Odisha and Andhra Pradesh due to the formation of cyclone Jawad on the morning of December 4. The IMD has said that a depression is expected to form over southeast and adjoining east-central Bay of Bengal by Thursday, which is likely to strengthen into a cyclonic storm around December 3. “[The cyclonic storm will] move northwestwards and reach north Andhra Pradesh-Odisha coast around December 4 morning,” the IMD tweeted.Owing to the cyclonic formation, the IMD has issued rainfall alerts not just in Andhra Pradesh and Odisha but also in Assam, Meghalaya, Tripura, and Gangetic West Bengal, among others.(With inputs from ANI)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/these-southern-states-to-get-above-normal-rainfall-from-dec-till-feb-imd-101638364656568.html
01-12-2021||India||Centre red-flags Maharashtra’s 4 new Covid rules for flyers, wants them scrapped||PUNE: The Union ministry of health and family welfare on Wednesday told the Maharashtra government to scrap additional Covid-19 conditions imposed by the state for international and domestic passengers and align the state’s guidelines to the ones issued by the central government, people aware of the matter said.The Centre’s missive came hours after Maharashtra, in a late evening order on Tuesday, mandated Covid-19 testing for all international travellers at the Mumbai airport irrespective of their country of origin, 14-day home quarantine for all international passengers despite testing negative on arrival and require passengers taking connecting flights to first clear a Covid-19 test.Besides, Tuesday’s order issued by Maharashtra chief secretary Debashish Chakrabarty also requires domestic passengers to get themselves tested within 48 hours of flying to Maharashtra.These four conditions are more stringent than the guidelines notified by the Union health ministry a few hours before Maharashtra issued its version, leading to some confusion and outrage among flyers who called them unfair.Also Read: 40 million fully vaccinated against Covid-19 in Maharashtra; cases dip by 57.51%In a letter to Maharashtra additional chief secretary Pradeep Vyas, Union health secretary Rajesh Bhushan told the state government to align its guidelines to the ones issued by the Centre on these four points.“This (Maharashtra government’s order) is in divergence with the SoPs (Standard operating procedure) and Guidelines issued by Ministry of Health & Family Welfare, Govt. of India. I would, therefore, urge you to align the orders issued by the state with the guidelines issued by the Ministry of Health & Family Welfare, Govt. Of India, so that uniform implementation of the guidelines may be ensured across all States/UTs,” Rajesh Bhushan said.HT has reviewed a copy of the letter.Bhushan also asked Maharashtra to give “wide publicity” to the modified orders, once they are issued “to obviate any inconvenience to travellers”.Also Read: Six test Covid positive in Maharashtra after return from high-risk countriesPune resident Ajit Thakhalkar, who is currently in Jammu and Kashmir and is scheduled to fly back to the city on December 3, said the Maharashtra government’s new rules have created problems for him.Thakhalkar said he was in a remote area of Jammu and Kashmir which did not have a Covid-19 testing facility. “How am I supposed to get the test done before coming to Pune,” he asked, saying his only option at the moment was to try getting a test done at Srinagar airport but wondered when the report would come in. He planned to fly to Delhi and take a connecting flight to Pune.Another passenger who was scheduled to travel from Jaipur to Pune on Wednesday said the government should have given them 4-5 days notice before coming up with such a rule.“Such sudden changes in travel requirements create panic,” he said, pointing that it will take him at least a day to get the report.Mahratta Chamber of Commerce Industries and Agriculture president Sudhir Mehta said they were in favour of reasonable restrictions but “reintroduction of RT-PCR Covid tests for domestic travel as done in Maharashtra serves little purpose for those already vaccinated.This needs a review, he said, wondering why it was safe for a passenger flying from Nagpur to Pune, but not from Delhi.As per the Centre’s guidelines, international passengers arriving from At-Risk countries were asked to remain under home quarantine for seven days and get tested again on the eighth day. While travellers coming from countries other than the flagged countries were allowed to leave the airport and were asked to “self-monitor” their health for 14 days from the arrival.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/centre-red-flags-maharashtra-s-4-new-covid-rules-for-flyers-wants-them-scrapped-101638360373467.html
01-12-2021||India||Terror-related incidents down in J&K after abrogation of Article 370, says govt||The Centre informed the Rajya Sabha on Wednesday that the number of terror-related incidents have come down in Jammu and Kashmir after abrogation of Article 370. The reply was given by Union minister of state for home affairs Nityanand Rai."The overall statistics shows that there has been decline in terrorist attacks on civilians and army in Jammu and Kashmir," Rai said.The minister said that from August 05, 2019 to November 22, 2021 (841 days since the abrogation), 496 terror-related incidents have been reported from Jammu and Kashmir. This is down from 843 such incidents reported in a same span of time before the abrogation.He also said that between April 16, 2017 and August 04, 2019, 86 civilians and 78 army personnel were killed in terror-related incidents.In response to a separate question, Rai said during the last 12 months from December 2020 to November 2021 (up to November 26), 14 terrorists have been apprehended and 165 terrorists have been killed.The minister said in the Lok Sabha on Tuesday that 40 civilians have been killed and 72 injured in Jammu and Kashmir in terror-related incidents till November 15 this year.Rai also informed about the steps taken by the government to protect civilians from anti-terror operations. These include proactive operations against terrorists, identification and arrest of over ground workers/supporters of terrorism, action against members of banned organizations, intensified night patrolling and checking at Nakas, security arrangements through appropriate deployment, coordination meetings amongst security agencies, high level of alertness maintained by the security forces and legal action in cases of terror funding.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/terrorrelated-incidents-down-in-j-k-after-abrogation-of-article-370-says-govt-101638359958548.html
01-12-2021||India||Centre says no data on farmers’ death, so no compensation||The Union government has told Parliament it had no data on farmers who died during the course of their year-long protests against the three farm laws repealed on November 29, sparking criticism from the Opposition and farm unions. In a written reply to six related questions in Lok Sabha, agriculture minister Narendra Singh Tomar said the government did not have any record of farmers who died during the protests and therefore there was no question of compensation to their families. This is the second time the Union government has informed Parliament it had no information on farmers’ death at various protest sites. During Parliament’s Monsoon Session too held during July-August, the government had said it did not have any such data. “The ministry of agriculture and farmers welfare has no record in the matter and hence the question does not arise,” the minister told Parliament. His reply also said the Union government did not have records on the number of cases registered by police against farmers in various states. Farm unions have claimed nearly 700 farmers lost their lives during the protests and their pending demands include compensation as well as withdrawal of all criminal cases lodged against protesting farmers. On November 19, the Samyukt Kisan Morcha, a platform of protesting farm unions, had said “nearly 700” protestors” had died during the agitation. Congress leader Malikarjun Kharge attacked the Union government after the agriculture minister’s reply. “This is an insult to farmers. How can the government say it has no records?” he asked. Prime Minister Narendra Modi on November 19 had announced a decision to repeal the three agricultural laws farmers say would have jeopardized their livelihoods, paving the way for Parliament to scrap the legislation. The laws had led to a massive farmers’ uprising across states, such as Punjab, Haryana Uttar, Pradesh and Rajasthan. Farm unions called it their “first major victory” but wrote to the prime minister, enlisting their remaining demands. These include bringing a law to ensure minimum prices for farm produce, revocation of proposed electricity bill farmers say will make power costlier and compensation for all farmers who died during protests. “We won’t withdraw our agitation until all out demands are met. Farmers have been injured in police atrocities. So many have died. A minister’s son killed farmers. They need compensation,” Gurnam Singh Charuni a farm leader said. 
01-12-2021||India||'Baba chief minister': Akhilesh slams Yogi over UP govt's promise to provide smartphones to youth||Samajwadi Party chief Akhilesh Yadav took a swipe at Uttar Pradesh chief minister Yogi Adityanath on Wednesday, saying those “who do not have a family” will not understand what a common household goes through when somebody in the family dies. His remarks came ahead of the upcoming Uttar Pradesh assembly election which has incited a war of words among the opposing parties."We are having families which is why we understand what the family members of a labourer or a farmer go through when he dies. Those raising a family understand the pain of an ordinary family. Those who do not have one will not and hence they will not care," news agency PTI quoted Yadav as saying at the 'Samajwadi Vijay Rath Yatra' in Banda, a city in Uttar Pradesh.In another stinging attack on Yogi Adityanath over his government's promise to provide tablets and smartphones to students, the SP chief said one cannot expect a “baba chief minister” to extend such facilities. Notably, Yogi Adityanath is a mahant (chief priest) of the revered Gorakhnath temple."Can a baba chief minister operate a laptop? Now it is heard that he cannot even operate a smartphone. If he could, the government would have given them to our youth by now," PTI quoted the SP chief as saying."The BJP had assured jobs to shikshamitras. However, after four-and-a-half years, it has only killed the dreams of the youth who were expecting to be gainfully employed," he further alleged.Akhilesh Yadav, who is also the former UP chief minister, asked the people if they wanted the "Yogi government or a yogya (capable) government".Yadav also alleged that the Yogi government deliberately leaked the question paper of the Teachers' Eligibility Test as it would not be in a position to provide jobs to successful candidates. The former chief minister then went on to promise that if the Samajwadi Party comes to power in the state, he will employ those with Basic Teachers Training and Bachelor of Education certification.Elections to 403 assembly constituencies in Uttar Pradesh are due early next year. In the 2017 assembly elections, the BJP received a landslide victory by securing 312 assembly seats and registered a 39.67% vote share.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/baba-chief-minister-akhilesh-slams-yogi-over-up-govt-s-promise-to-provide-smartphones-to-youth-101638359655776.html
01-12-2021||India||200 e-Emergency X-visas issued to Afghans till Nov 24: Govt informs Parliament||The Union home ministry on Wednesday informed Parliament that 200 e-Emergency X-miscellaneous visas have been issued to Afghan nationals till November 24. This new category of visa was introduced for Afghan nationals after the Taliban took over the country in August.The special category e-Emergency X-miscellaneous visa was a special category electronic visa introduced by the government to fast-track urgent applications for entry into India. It is issued to foreigners who are not covered in the available categories of visa but need to visit India due to an emergency. The government reviews the emergency application as per the prescribed rules and issues the e-emergency visa accordingly.Replying to a question in the Lok Sabha, Union minister of state for home affairs Niryanand Rai further said that 4,557 Afghan nationals are presently staying in India after the extension of their visas."In view of the prevailing situation in Afghanistan, the Government of India has started an 'e-Emergency X-Misc visa' for a period of six months for Afghan nationals," Rai said while replying to question asked by Nationalist Congress Party (NCP) MP Vandana Chavan.Giving details about the legislation, policy and schemes undertaken by the government of India to ensure safety and standards of living of refugees in India, the minister said, "All foreign nationals (including Asylum seekers) are governed by the provisions contained in the Foreigners Act, 1946, The Registration of Foreigners Act, 1939, The Passport (Entry into India) Act, 1920 and The Citizenship Act, 1955 and rules and orders made thereunder.""The data of foreign nationals who enter into the country without valid travel documents in a surreptitious and clandestine manner, claiming to be refugees or asylum seekers are not maintained centrally," Rai clarified.Afghanistan came under the control of the Taliban in the wake of the withdrawal of American forces. While the deadline for the US forces to leave Afghanistan was August 31, the insurgent group captured the presidential palace in capital Kabul a fortnight before that.The lightning speed at which the Taliban seized provincial capital cities like Gardez, Sharana, Asadabad, Maymana, Mihtarlam, Nili, Mazar-i-Sharif, and finally Kabul, left the world in shock.Thousands of Afghans fled in the country in the wake of Taliban’s advance and sought asylum in nearby countries, including India.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/200-e-emergency-x-visas-issued-to-afghans-till-nov-24-govt-informs-parliament-101638358582727.html
01-12-2021||India||EU special envoy for Afghanistan to visit India next week||India and the European Union (EU) will have an opportunity to exchange notes and discuss the way forward in Afghanistan when EU special envoy Tomas Niklasson visits New Delhi this week. Niklasson is set to travel to India after holding talks in Doha over the weekend with a Taliban delegation led by acting foreign minister Amir Khan Muttaqi. The EU made it clear the two-day dialogue did not imply recognition of the interim government in Kabul but was part of an “operational engagement in the interest of the EU and the Afghan people”. This will be Niklasson’s first visit to India since he became the special envoy and comes weeks after India hosted a meeting of top security officials of regional countries, including Iran and Russia, to discuss the situation in Afghanistan. Security ties between India and the EU have been on the upswing in recent years in areas ranging from the Indo-Pacific to maritime security. People familiar with the matter said on condition of anonymity that the EU special envoy’s visit will be an opportunity for the two sides to exchange views on the latest developments in Afghanistan, including the urgent need to provide humanitarian aid to the Afghan people. Also Read: 4,557 Afghan nationals residing in India on ‘stay visa’: Nityanand Rai in RSThe people further said that India’s position on Afghanistan remains unchanged and is based on UN Security Council resolution 2593, which calls for the formation of an inclusive government and steps to ensure that Afghan soil is not used to plan and execute terrorist actions against other countries. India has no immediate plans to reopen its embassy in Kabul, which was shuttered after all the diplomats and security personnel were evacuated in August, the people said. The immediate focus for India is ensuring unhindered and unimpeded access for humanitarian efforts in order to rush relief materials and medicines to the Afghan people as winter sets in, the people added. The Taliban delegation led by Muttaqi also held talks in Doha with the new US special representative on Afghanistan, Thomas West, who emphasised the “importance of the Taliban fulfilling its public commitment not to allow anyone to pose a threat to any country from the soil of Afghanistan” and the protection of the rights of all of Afghan citizens.The US side indicated there were no plans to lift American sanctions, as the treasury department had issued general licences for the continued flow of humanitarian aid to Afghanistan. The EU delegation, in its talks with the Taliban, highlighted the importance of democracy and called on the interim government to take “swift, meaningful and concrete steps towards an inclusive government” with all ethnic, political and religious affiliations in order to pave the way for national reconciliation.
01-12-2021||India||News updates from HT: Mamata Banerjee meets NCP chief Sharad Pawar in Mumbai and all the latest news||Here are today’s top news, analysis, and opinion. Know all about the latest news and other news updates from Hindustan Times.Mamata Banerjee meets Sharad Pawar on Mumbai visit, talks of opposition allianceWest Bengal chief minister and Trinamool Congress supremo Mamata Banerjee on Wednesday met Nationalist Congress Party (NCP) chief Sharad Pawar in Mumbai. Read more.On Centre’s 'no data of farmer deaths', Cong’s Mallikarjun Kharge has a questionReferring to the Centre’s claim about not having data on farmer deaths during the agitation, Rajya Sabha leader of opposition Mallikarjun Kharge said that it is “farmers’ insult.” Read more.4,557 Afghan nationals residing in India on 'stay visa': Nityanand Rai in RSAt least 4,557 Afghan nationals are currently residing in India on the ‘stay visa’ after the Indian government extended their special temporary visas, Union minister of state for home affairs Nityanand Rai informed during Parliament's winter session on Wednesday. Read more.The Power of the Dog movie review: Benedict Cumberbatch-led Western brims with foreboding and erotic tensionJane Campion’s repressed protagonists wrestle with desire that assumes transgressive power usually due to societal mores and circumstances. Read more.Deepika Padukone proves she is the Queen of classy looks in ₹50k denim jacket-pants setThe denim-on-denim trend is not going away anytime soon. Read more.Triumph marks a million motorcycle production with special edition Tiger 900British two-wheeler manufacturer Triumph Motorcycles has hit a major milestone which coincides with the brand's 120th anniversary next year. Read more.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/news-updates-from-ht-alert-issued-in-odisha-andhra-for-cyclone-jawad-formation-101638356356380.html
01-12-2021||India||Tirumala Ghat Road suffers damages due to landslides, sealed for traffic||The ghat road connecting Tirupati town to Tirumala hills, the abode of Lord Venkateshwara in Andhra Pradesh’s Chittoor district, suffered damages due to landslides early on Wednesday morning, forcing the Tirumala Tirupati Devasthanam authorities to close the road for vehicular traffic.This is the second time in less than two weeks that the ghat road has been closed for traffic due to landslides caused by heavy rain that lashed the temple town, along with several parts of south coastal Andhra and Rayalaseema districts, which are still reeling under the impact of a depression in the Bay of Bengal.A TTD spokesperson said there were landslides at three places on the second ghat road (meant for the uphill journey of pilgrims from Tirupati to Tirumala). At one place, a massive boulder has fallen on the ghat road, which has caved in completely under its impact.Landslides at two other places also damaged the road. However, there were no untoward incidents as no vehicle was passing through the road at the time of landslides. A bus carrying pilgrims stopped a few metres away from the spot, after being alerted by the TTD vigilance and security authorities about the landslides.“The TTD authorities and the police swung into action and sealed the road completely. There are no landslides on the first ghat road (bringing pilgrims from Tirumala down the hill). We are allowing the uphill traffic also on the same route,” the spokesperson said.TTD chairman Y V Subba Reddy, along with the senior officials rushed to the spot to inspect the damaged road. “While the vigilance and police officials have removed the rocks and other debris, the engineering department authorities have been pressed into service to study the situation. A team of experts from IIT Madras are also expected to arrive by evening to assess the extent of damage,” the spokesperson said, adding that it might take two to three days to restore normalcy on the damaged stretch.In the third week of November, too, Tirumala and Tirupati witnessed unprecedented heavy rainfall and both the ghat roads were closed for a day due to landslides on the hills. The temple premises and its surroundings were submerged in water for nearly two days. The traffic was restored gradually, as the water subsided.The pedestrian route -- Srivari Mettu, which was severely damaged due to landslides and heavy rainfall, continues to remain shut for pilgrims as the TTD authorities have been undertaking repairs along this route.
01-12-2021||India||Mamata Banerjee meets Sharad Pawar on Mumbai visit, talks of opposition alliance||West Bengal chief minister and Trinamool Congress supremo Mamata Banerjee on Wednesday met Nationalist Congress Party (NCP) chief Sharad Pawar in Mumbai.Among others, the two veteran leaders spoke on the need for a collective leadership at the national level. Banerjee, who is on three-day visit to Mumbai, also met Shiv Sena leader Sanjay Raut and Maharashtra chief minister Uddhav Thackeray's son Aditya.“Today, my colleagues and I had a long chat with her (Mamata Banerjee). Her intention is that in today's situation like-minded forces have to come together at national level and set up collective leadership,” Sharad Pawar was quoted as saying after his meeting with Mamata Banerjee.Meanwhile, Banerjee said that there is no United Progress Alliance (UPA) left. However, NCP chief Sharad Pawar said that they want to work together to take everyone along who wanted to be part of it and ready to work hard.“What UPA, where is UPA? Now there is no UPA left. We will make one (alternative front),” Banerjee said.On being asked whether the Congress would be part of the “alliance”, Pawar said any party that is against the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) are welcome if they come together. “We have to provide a strong alternative to leadership. Our thinking is not for today, but for the election. This has to be established and with that intention, she has visited and had a very positive discussion with all of us,” Pawar said.ALSO READ | 'Not constitutionally mandated': Mamata Banerjee on why she didn't meet Sonia GandhiHer meeting with Thackeray and Pawar, two of the three coalition partners in the ruling Maha Vikas Aghadi (MVA) in Maharashtra, comes amid her party’s widening rift with the Congress, which is an ally of MVA.The meeting also holds significance as the Trinamool Congress is trying to expand its national footprint with Banerjee spearheading efforts to unite opposition parties against the Bharatiya Janata Party ahead of the 2024 Lok Sabha elections in the country. Several leaders joined the Trinamool Congress recently with the defection of 12 Congress MLAs in Meghalaya, including the state’s former chief minister Mukul Sangma, being the latest.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/mamata-banerjee-meets-sharad-pawar-on-mumbai-visit-talks-of-opposition-alliance-101638356744136.html
01-12-2021||India||Eye on Omicron: India defers full resumption of international flights||The Directorate General of Civil Aviation (DGCA) on Wednesday postponed the full resumption of commercial international passenger flights from December 15 citing the new coronavirus variant of concern - Omicron.The Directorate General of Civil Aviation (DGCA) on Wednesday postponed the full resumption of commercial international passenger flights from December 15 citing the new coronavirus variant of concern - Omicron.|#+|“In view of the emerging situation, we are postponing the resumption of international flight operations. We will, however, continue flights under the air bubble agreement,” said DGCA director general Arun Kumar.Also Read | 6 test Covid positive on Day 1 of new guidelines, samples sent for Omicron testIndia has air bubble agreements with 28 countries such as the UK, Netherlands, France and Germany.Earlier in the day, the DGCA issued a circular and said it is monitoring the situation related to Omicron and will notify the date of full resumption of commercial international passenger services from December 15 accordingly. “In view of the global scenario with the emergence of the new variant of concern, the situation is being watched closely in consultation with all stakeholders and an appropriate decision indicating the effective date of resumption of scheduled commercial international passenger services shall be notified in due course,” the DGCA said in the circular.Also Read | Amid Omicron scare, 3 Covid positive foreigners in Vrindavan leave India without informing authorities: ReportThe World Health Organisation on Friday classified Omicron detected in South Africa as a variant of concern. It came on the day India said it will allow the full schedule of regular international flights to resume with all countries from December 15. A day later, Prime Minister Narendra Modi asked officials to review the plan to ease international travel restrictions after the new variant triggered a global alarm. He called for the need to be “proactive in light of the new threat”.Also Read | WHO confirms Omicron Covid-19 variant in 23 countries. Here’s the full listThe guidelines were on Monday revised and mandate all international travellers arriving in India to mandatorily fill up self-declaration forms and upload their negative RT-PCR test reports. Airlines have been asked to ensure that passengers have negative test reports before boarding flights.Travellers coming from countries “at-risk” will have to mandatorily undergo RT-PCR testing on arrival. If tested negative, they will have to undergo home quarantine for seven days and get re-tested. If tested positive in the initial test or on repeat testing, the passengers will be sent to isolation facilities while their samples will be sent for genomic testing.Also Read | Centre issues FAQs for international passengers amid Omicron variant scareA random 2% of the travellers coming from countries other than those classified as “at-risk” will undergo RT-PCR testing at the airports on arrival. If they are found to have Covid-19, their samples will be sent for genome testing for the omicron variant and treatment shall be conducted as per protocols. If tested negative the traveller will be asked to monitor health for at least the next 14 days.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/monitoring-omicron-situation-decision-on-international-flights-resumption-accordingly-dgca-101638356592257.html
01-12-2021||India||Sustained protests preceded Uttarakhand’s Char Dham legislation withdrawal||The Uttarakhand government’s announcement on Tuesday of the withdrawal of the law that brought temples including Badrinath, Kedarnath, Gangotri, and Yamunotri under the purview of a board followed a sustained two-year-long agitation of priests. The priests staged protests on the premises of the Himalayan Char Dham shrines seeking the board’s scrapping. One of them wrote a letter to Prime Minister Narendra Modi in his blood reiterating the demand. The priests last week gheraoed residences of ministers and warned they will vote against the ruling Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) in the assembly elections next year if the law is not withdrawn.KK Kotiyal, the head of a priests’ body, credited their struggle and protests for the announcement. “When we started our agitation, we said that our intention is pious and sacred and no force can hold us back, nothing can stop us from winning this sacred battle. I will call this victory of truth even as the government announced (the repeal) when elections are nearing.”The Char Dham Devasthanam Management Board Act was enacted in December 2019 when Trivendra Singh Rawat was the chief minister. The priests opposed the board formation, saying they were kept in the dark about the law for full government control of issues related to the temples. They accused the government of snatching away their traditional rights.BJP leader Subramanian Swamy filed a plea in the high court challenging the constitutional validity of the law in February 2020. He said the legislation was ultra vires (beyond legal power or authority) under the Constitution. The court in July that year dismissed the plea against the government takeover of the temples. It said the ownership of the temple properties would vest in shrines and the board’s power would be confined only to the administration and management.Also Read: My decision, says Dhami on scrapping Char Dham law. Then makes a promiseChief minister Tirath Singh Rawat announced a review of the board formation after he took over from Trivendra Singh Rawat amid calls for dissolving it. The proponents of the dissolution maintained the priests have been managing the shrines for centuries and should be allowed to continue doing so.The priests intensified their agitation by the time Pushkar Singh Dhami became the chief minister in July. Dhami formed a committee the same month to review the law.Santosh Trivedi, a Kedarnath shrine priest, in August wrote the letter with his blood to Modi demanding to scrap the board and allowing priests to manage the shrines as they have been done for centuries.The priests on November 1 prevented Trivendra Singh Rawat from praying at the Kedarnath shrine. On the same day, ahead of Modi’s November 5 Kedarnath visit, the priests warned that they will also not allow him to pray at the shrine if their demand for scrapping the board was not accepted. This prompted Dhami to visit Kedarnath on November 2 to assure the priests the government will make a decision by November 30 after receiving the report from the committee. The assurance prompted priests to call off their protest coinciding with Modi’s visit.On November 23, the priests gheraoed residences of Cabinet ministers in Dehradun and warned of state-wide protests if the decision on scrapping the board was not taken by November 30.
01-12-2021||India||After Munawar Faruqui, stand-up comic Kunal Kamra says all shows in Bengaluru cancelled||Stand-up comic Kunal Kamra on Wednesday said that all his shows in Bengaluru, which were scheduled over the next 20 days, have been cancelled. Kamra gave two reasons behind why the shows have been scrapped, one of which included him receiving threats to shut down the venue if he were to ever perform there. “I suppose I am seen as a variant of the virus now,” the comedian said sarcastically in a tweet, adding a word about Munawar Faruqui, another stand-up artist who was recently faced with a similar fate, wherein all 12 of his shows in the past two months – the latest of which was a Bengaluru event – were cancelled because of threats.In a post captioned “Cancelling comedy shows 101”, stand-up artist Kunal Kamra wrote, “They [the shows] have been cancelled for two reasons. Firstly, we didn't get special permissions to seat 45 people in the venue that can seat more. Secondly, threats have been made to shut down the venue if I were to ever perform there. I guess this is also part of the Covid protocol & new guidelines. I suppose I am seen as a variant of the virus now.”Cancelling comedy shows 101.😎😎😎 pic.twitter.com/fN0U7N8QrXTaking note of what his fellow stand-up compatriot Munawar Faruqui had to go through earlier, Kamra wrote with a hint of morbid sarcasm, “For those on Twitter that have been wondering how ‘A Kamra goes on to perform while a Farooqui has had to quit comedy’ we can find solace in the fact that the ruling class is at least trying to oppress with equality.”He added, “Maybe if we continue down the road of equal oppression, we would get to a point of equal liberation, in a post-climate change era.”For the uninitiated, comedian Munawar Faruqui had on Sunday posted a statement on Instagram, styled like an open mic, which ended with him signing off perhaps for the last time, as he wrote, “This is the end. Good bye! I am done.”“Hatred won and the artist lost”, the comedian had said, recounting how his 12 shows have been cancelled in the last two months because of threats. Notably, the Bengaluru police, too, have confirmed that permission had been denied as “Munawar Faruqui” is a controversial figure.“It is learnt that Munawar Faruqui is a controversial figure...Many states have banned his comedy shows. It is learnt that a case has been registered against him in the Tukoji police station in Indore of Madhya Pradesh,” the inspector of the Ashokanagar Police station had said in a letter.This is not the first that abrasive humour from Indian stand-up comics has made waves in the backdrop of the political situation in the country. Kamra, whose comedy acts often target the current government, is no stranger to threats and curbs imposed on him. Last year, he was banned by a number of airlines, including IndiGo and the government-owned Air India, after confronting a popular news anchor aboard an aircraft. The comedian, however, later issued a legal notice to IndiGo against the travel ban demanding a compensation of ₹25 lakh.Earlier this month, actor-comedian Vir Das also received backlash for his international show, Two Indias, which described two contrasting faces of the country and referred to many controversial topics. Although the Netflix comedy special was severely criticised back home, it later received an official nomination in the Comedy category at the 49th International Emmy Awards.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/after-munawar-faruqui-stand-up-comic-kunal-kamra-says-all-shows-in-bengaluru-cancelled-101638353287595.html
01-12-2021||India||Omicron: Comprehensive list of guidelines India implemented from December 1||The omicron variant has heightened the security scare across the globe. Many countries have banned trave to southern African countries where the variant emerged last month.India too has revised its travel guidelines, asking state governments to enhance screening of all incoming international passengers.The new rules came into effect from Wednesday, December 1.Here’s a look at what has changed in the wake of the new omicron variant of the coronavirus:Testing and contract tracingAccording to the new guidelines, RT-PCR test has been made mandatory for all international flyers at major airports, besides the Covid-19 test report. Passengers arriving in India are required to submit the self-declaration form on the online Air Suvidha Portal before the scheduled travel. They are also required to submit their travel details for the last 14 days.The guideline also mandate that the RT-PCR test should have been conducted within 72 hours prior to undertaking the journey.For travellers coming from ‘at risk’ countriesIn case of a negative test result, the traveller will be asked to home-quarantine for seven days as a precautionary measure. They will have to take a retest on eighth day and if negative, further self-monitor for the next seven days.In case of a positive test result, the samples will be sent for genomic testing at the INSACOG laboratory network. Meanwhile, the passenger will be taken to a separate isolation facility and will be treated as per the protocol laid down by the health ministry.The authorities have also enhanced testing and contract-tracing of those testing positive.For travellers coming from countries not identified as ‘at risk’A random sample of 2% of the travellers (chosen at the discretion of the airlines) will undergo RT-PCR testing at the airport on arrival. This number has been revised from the earlier 5% in the fresh guidelines issued on November 30.If these come back positive, the sample will be sent for genome testing for the omicron variant. If the result is negative, the traveller will be asked to monitor own health for at least 14 days.What happens is a traveller develops symptoms during the quarantine period?According to the revised guidelines issued on November 30, such passengers will be asked to report to the nearest health facility or contact the national Covid-19 helpline (1075) or any of the state helpline numbers.Quarantine guidelinesMandatory 14-day quarantine at designated places for Covid-19 positive casesStates have made seven-day quarantine must for travellers arriving from countries of concern (‘at-risk’ nations) as identified by the World Health Organization (WHO) and who test negative at airports. These countries are: The UK, South Africa, Brazil, Bangladesh, Botswana, China, Mauritius, New Zealand, Zimbabwe, Singapore, Hong Kong and Israel.Maharashtra has issued even stringent guidelines, making RT-PCR testing must for all travellers, irrespective of the country of origin. It has also made 14-day home quarantine mandatory for all international passengers, despite being tested RT-PCR negative upon arrival. Domestic travellers too will have to present RT-PCR negative report, not older than 48 hours, before entering Maharashtra.Meanwhile, Tamil Nadu has appointed nodal health officers at airports to ensure international flyers are tested and sent to quarantine.Infrastructure boostThe states have designated special Covid-19 hospitals to handle a surge in cases, if it happens. For example, the Delhi government has designated Lok Nayak Narayan Hospital for omicron cases.In Mumbai, civic body BMC has directed all jumbo Covid care centres to make necessary preparations.The Centre, on its part, has increased the ‘Har Ghar Dastak’ (door-to-door) vaccination programme till December 31. It has asked the state governments to increase vaccination coverage.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/omicron-comprehensive-list-of-guidelines-india-implemented-from-december-1-101638355006950.html
01-12-2021||India||‘If you don’t have record of 700 people…’: Mallikarjun Kharge’s question to Centre on no data of farmer deaths||Referring to the Centre’s claim about not having data on farmer deaths during the agitation, Rajya Sabha leader of opposition Mallikarjun Kharge called the same “farmers’ insult.” “More than 700 farmers lost their lives during protests against three farm laws. How can [the] Centre say they don’t have any record of it?” he told news agency ANI.The Congress leader also wondered how the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP)-led government at the Centre collected data of lakhs of people during the Covid-19 pandemic if they don’t have a record of 700 people.“Over 50 lakh people lost their lives due to Covid-19 in the last two years, but according to [the] government, only four lakh people died due to the virus,” Kharge was quoted as saying by ANI."If Govt doesn't have a record of 700 people then how they had collected data of lakhs of people during pandemic. Over 50 lakh people lost their lives due to #COVID19 in the last 2 years but according to govt, only 4 lakh people died due to the virus," Mallikarjun Kharge addedHis remarks come after Union agriculture minister Narendra Singh Tomar informed Parliament earlier in the day that the Centre doesn’t possess any record of farmers, who lost their lives during the year-long stir against the three contentious farm laws.“The ministry of agriculture and farmers welfare has no record in the matter and hence the question does not arise,” Tomar told the House when asked if the Centre plans to render financial compensation to the next of kin of farmers who died during the agitation.Opposition leaders as well as protesting farmer unions have consistently maintained that a total of 700 farmers died during the protest. On Tuesday, Congress leader Manish Tiwari moved an adjournment motion in the Lok Sabha urging the Centre to “create a record of farmers who lost their lives during farm laws’ protest and give compensation to their families,” according to ANI.Also Read | Release correct data on Covid deaths, give ₹4 lakh as compensation: Rahul GandhiNotably, Prime Minister Narendra Modi announced on November 19 about his government’s decision to roll back all the three farm laws. Five days later on November 24, the Union cabinet gave its nod to the Farm Laws Repeal Bill 2021.However, Congress leaders have been unhappy despite the revocation of the farm laws, alleging that they have not been allowed to discuss the matter during the ongoing winter session of the Parliament that commenced on November 29.“The way they (farm laws) were repealed, without discussion in the Parliament…shows that the government…knows they have done wrong. And that the government is scared,” Congress leader Rahul Gandhi said.He added that the Congress party wanted to discuss the minimum support price (MSP) issue, the deaths of 700 farmers during the stir, and the Lakhimpur Kheri incident.Meanwhile, the Centre has reached out to Samyukt Kisan Morcha (SKM) for the names of five people, who could represent the farmers on a panel proposed by PM Modi to look into MSP and other issues. In a statement, the SKM said that it will take a decision regarding the five names and other matters at a meeting on December 4.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/on-centre-s-no-data-of-farmer-deaths-cong-s-mallikarjun-kharge-has-a-question-101638354565894.html
01-12-2021||India||4,557 Afghan nationals residing in India on 'stay visa': Nityanand Rai in Parliament||At least 4,557 Afghan nationals are currently residing in India on the ‘stay visa’ after the Indian government extended their special temporary visas keeping in view the evolving situation following the Taliban takeover of the war-torn country, Union minister of state for home affairs Nityanand Rai informed during Parliament's Winter Session on Wednesday.In a written reply to a question in Rajya Sabha, the minister said, "In view of the prevailing situation in Afghanistan, the Government of India has started an 'e-Emergency X-Misc visa' for a period of six months for Afghan nationals."The minister further said, “Stay visa is granted to Afghan nationals staying in India keeping in view the present situation in that country. Presently, 4,557 Afghan nationals are staying in India on Stay Visa after extension of their visas. As on 24.11.2021, 200 e-Emergency X-Misc visas have been issued.”The statement was issued in reply to a question asked by Nationalist Congress Party MP Vandana Chavan on whether the government “maintains data on refugee foreign nationals residing in India" and "the steps being taken to aid Afghan asylum seekers in India”."All foreign nationals (including Asylum seekers) are governed by the provisions contained in the Foreigners Act, 1946, The Registration of Foreigners Act, 1939, The Passport (Entry into India) Act, 1920 and The Citizenship Act, 1955 and rules and orders made thereunder," Rai stated.He, however, added that the data on foreign nationals “who enter the country without valid travel documents in a surreptitious and clandestine manner, claiming to be refugees or asylum seekers” are not maintained by the government.As many as 60,000 visa applications of Afghan nationals were brought under consideration after the government launched the special 'e-Emergency X-Misc Visa' to aid the asylum process for those fleeing Afghanistan.Scores of Afghan Sikhs and Hindus fled the war-torn country and took shelter in India and other countries as the Taliban seized seven provincial capital cities and ousted the Afghanistan government on August 14 this year. Such nationals who are staying in India are being granted a six-month visa which will be later converted into a 'stay visa' with a one-year validity and it can be extended further.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/4557-afghan-nationals-residing-in-india-on-stay-visa-nityanand-rai-in-parliament-101638354418805.html
01-12-2021||India||Centre asks Maharashtra to modify quarantine guidelines||The Union health ministry on Wednesday sent a letter to the Maharashtra government, urging it to align the orders given in the wake of the new coronavirus variant omicron with Centre's guidelines. The letter, signed by Union health secretary Rajesh Bhushan, calls for uniform implementation of guidelines across all the states and union territories.The Centre’s letter has identified four points from Maharashtra government’s guidelines, which were issued on November 30. These are:• Mandatory RT-PCR testing of all international travellers at the Mumbai airport, irrespective of country of origin.• Mandatory 14-day home quarantine for all international passengers, despite being tested RT-PCR negative upon arrival• Mandatory RT-PCR test for passengers planning to undertake connecting flights after disembarking at Mumbai and further travel subject to a negative RT-PCR result• Requirement of negative RT-PCR test 48 hours prior to date of journey, for domestic passengers travelling from other states to MaharashtraIn the letter sent to Maharashtra’s additional chief secretary, Bhushan advised that such modified orders of the state government are given wide publicity to obviate any inconvenience to travellers.Unlike Maharashtra, the guidelines issued by the Centre are meant only for 'at-risk' countries.The Maharashtra government had announced these guidelines on Tuesday, and said they will come into effect immediately in order to restrict the transmission of the said virus variant into the state.The order copy read, "The restrictions imposed by the Government of India guidelines dated November 28, 2021 as well as future restrictions, if any, shall act as minimum restrictions to be imposed."But on Wednesday, the BrihanMumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) said that a window of two days shall be granted to all passengers from ‘at-risk’ countries, since many fliers will have already finalised their plans of travel, may be on the move, or might even be airborne, and unaware of these guidelines. These revised guidelines will now come into effect from December 2, at 11.59pm.The BMC has also directed the Mumbai airport operators to communicate to all domestic airlines not to allow any passengers landing in Mumbai, to board flight without negative RT-PCR report taken within 72 hours of travel.It said that testing may be allowed at the airport on arrival only in exceptional cases.Apart from the above-mentioned points, the Maharashtra government has also asked DCP immigration and Foreigners Regional Registration Office (FRRO) to draft a proforma of declaration for all arriving passengers on international flights to declare details of the countries visited in the last 15 days. The authorities at Mumbai International Airport Limited (MIAL) has been asked to share the proformas with all airlines and the information regarding travel in the last 15 days will be cross-checked by immigration on arrival. Incorrect information furnished by the passengers will lead to action under relevant sections of the Disaster Management Act, 2005, the state government said in its order.
01-12-2021||India||Peace talks at important stage, says Nagaland CM||Nagaland chief minister Neiphiu Rio on Wednesday said the peace talks between the Centre and Naga insurgent groups have reached a stage where he is hopeful of an early resolution to the decades-old issue. He said the Nagas continue to earnestly wait for a solution. He added the state’s elected leaders have come together to form an Opposition-less government (United Democratic Alliance) to facilitate an early settlement of the problem. “Through this united front, we aim to convey the voice of the people to all stakeholders involved in the negotiations,” Rio said on the occasion of Nagaland’s 59th statehood day.He said Nagaland achieved statehood close to six decades earlier and the quality of life of its people has improved significantly since. “...despite achievements in various fields, a lot remains to be done. The government is committed to taking necessary steps for all-round development and to ensure that people are provided with the best opportunities for growth and progress.”Nagaland governor Jagdish Mukhi, in his message on the statehood day, said Nagaland has endeavoured over decades to achieve peace.“Peace is more than desired; it is a must for the advancement and achievement of the fullest potential of the state. I am hopeful that with the collective efforts of all, we will succeed in ushering stable peace in our state and the desire of the people for a vibrant and thriving Nagaland will no longer remain elusive but materialise before long.”Also Read: Nagaland takes travel inspiration from USA’s Sturgis, aims for off-road tourismIn 2015, the Centre signed the Framework Agreement with the Isak-Muivah faction of the National Socialist Council of Nagalim (NSCN-IM) after 18 years of truce. The talks were halted in October 2019 over issues pertaining to the agreement. The NSCN (IM) remained firm on its demand for a separate Naga flag and constitution. This is believed to be the main reason for the delay in a final deal to settle the issue. Negotiations resumed in September after the Centre named former Intelligence Bureau special director AK Mishra as its emissary to revive the stalled process.The Centre also signed “Agreed Position” with seven other Naga national political groups in 2017. Leaders of the groups, NSCN (IM) and Nagaland’s top politicians led by Rio are believed to have held a series of meetings in Delhi on how to take forward the dialogue. The Centre has sought two months to iron out certain contentious issues and the talks are likely to resume in early 2022.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/naga-peace-talks-at-imp-stage-hopeful-for-early-resolution-nagaland-cm-101638353352804.html
01-12-2021||India||Cyclone Jawad: IMD issues alert for north Andhra Pradesh, Odisha coasts||The India Meteorological Department (IMD) has issued an alert for the formation of Cyclone Jawad, which may reach the coasts of Andhra Pradesh and Odisha on the morning of December 4.IMD said in its latest bulletin that Tuesday’s low pressure over south Thailand and its neighbourhood emerged into central Andaman Sea in the evening and persisted over the same region at 8:30am on Wednesday.“It is likely to move west-northwestwards and concentrate into a Depression over southeast & adjoining east-central Bay of Bengal by tomorrow, the 2nd December and intensify into a Cyclonic Storm over central parts of the Bay of Bengal during the subsequent 24 hours,” the IMD said in its latest bulletin.Also read | Two intense systems likely to bring widespread rain and thunderstormsIt is then likely to move northwestwards, intensify further and reach near north Andhra Pradesh and Odisha coasts around the morning of December 4.Here are the warnings issued by IMD:RainfallLight to moderate rainfall is likely at most places with heavy rainfall at isolated places very likely over Andaman and Nicobar Islands on Thursday, December 2.On December 3, the IMD has forecast light to moderate rainfall at many places with heavy rainfall at isolated places over north coastal Andhra Pradesh and south coastal Odisha from the evening.Light to moderate rainfall at most places with heavy to very heavy rainfall at a few places and extremely heavy falls at isolated places are very likely over north coastal Andhra Pradesh and coastal Odisha on December 4, according to IMD.Also read | Parts of Mumbai, Thane may see heavy rain today, cyclone alert for OdishaIt also predicted heavy to very heavy rainfall at isolated places over adjoining interior districts of Odisha and heavy falls at isolated places over Gangetic West Bengal on December 4.According to IMD, on December light to moderate rainfall at most places with heavy to very heavy rainfall at isolated places is likely over West Bengal and adjoining north coastal Odisha. Heavy rainfall at isolated places over Assam, Meghalaya and Tripura, it also said.Sea conditionThe sea condition will be rough to very rough over Andaman Sea, along and off Andaman and Nicobar Islands and adjoining southeast Bay of Bengal on Wednesday.It will become very rough to high over the southeast and adjoining eastcentral Bay of Bengal, Andaman and Nicobar Islands and the Andaman Sea on Thursday, December 2.Also read | Peninsular India recorded highest rainfall in November since 1901For the next day, IMD said the sea condition will be high over the central Bay of Bengal and high to very high over westcentral and northwest Bay of Bengal from the early morning of December 4 for the subsequent 24 hours.Sea condition will be rough to very rough over along and off north Andhra Pradesh and Odisha coasts from the mid-night of December 3 and become high to very high from the afternoon of December 4 for the subsequent 12 hours. It will be very rough to high along and off the West Bengal coast from December 4 morning and high to very high from the same evening for the subsequent 12 hours.Warning for fishermenFishermen out at sea have been advised by IMD to return to the coast by Thursday morning.They have also been advised not to venture into the Andaman Sea on Wednesday and Thursday and into the southeast and adjoining east-central Bay of Bengal on December 2 and 3.Also read | Heavy, widespread rain likely in Gujarat, north Konkan on Wednesday, ThursdayIMD also said they should nor go to the westcentral and northwest Bay of Bengal and along and off north Andhra Pradesh, Odisha and West Bengal coasts during December 3 to December 5.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/cyclone-jawad-imd-issues-alert-for-north-andhra-pradesh-odisha-coasts-101638352165558.html
01-12-2021||India||'Sentiments of rhetoric fell': Rahul's veiled dig at Centre over LPG price hike||Congress leader Rahul Gandhi launched a veiled attack on the Narendra Modi led-Central government on Wednesday over the price of LPG that went up by ₹100. Taking to Twitter, Gandhi said, “As inflation rose, the sentiments of the rhetoric fell," and followed it with hashtags “#LPG” and “#Pricehike”.The national oil marketing companies on Wednesday increased the price of commercial 19kg LPG cylinder by ₹100.50, which pushed up tthe price to ₹2,101 in Delhi. This marked the second-highest price of a 19kg commercial cylinder after 2012-13, when it used to cost around ₹2,200 per cylinder.There has been no increase in the prices of domestic cylinders weighing 14.2kg, 5 kg, 10kg composite or 5kg composite cylinders.Also read | Delhi govt slashes VAT on fuel to 19.4%, petrol gets cheaper by ₹8 per litreMeanwhile, Congress MP Manish Tewari gave an adjournment motion notice in the Lok Sabha to discuss the high rate of inflation during the ongoing winter session of Parliament.“The high rate of inflation has hurt the economically weaker sections of the country. Prices of Oil and vegetables has skyrocketed and fuel is breaking new price records almost every day with petrol going way beyond the 100-rupee mark and LPG cylinders having more than doubled in price since 2014, now cost more than ₹900,” Tiwari said in his letter to secretary-general of lower house."According to data released by RBI, the CPI (combined) inflation rate in oils and fats for October 2021 on a year-on-year basis stands at 33.50 per cent while the same numbers for fuel and light and transport and communication are 14.19 and 10.90 respectively. This high rate of inflation not only breaks the back of the low-income group of the country but also aggravates the already increasing inequality in income distribution. Thus, I want to raise this urgent issue of Inflation in the house," he added.The price of LPG cylinder is revised monthly for all over the states and union territories in India. Last month, prices of 19kg commercial cylinders saw a steep rise of ₹266, increasing the prices to ₹2,000.50.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/sentiments-of-rhetoric-fell-rahul-s-veiled-dig-at-centre-over-lpg-price-hike-101638352372460.html
01-12-2021||India||India defers resumption of international flights with an eye on Covid-19 variants||The Directorate General of Civil Aviation (DGCA) on Wednesday delayed the resumption of scheduled commercial international passenger airline services to or from India, mentioning that it will notify its decision on the same in due time. In a meeting late last month, the central government had announced that commercial international flights shall resume from December 15, after a long hiatus of more than 20 months in between. That decision, however, came under renewed scrutiny as recently as last Sunday, when the government reviewed the strategy following reports of omicron's emergence.Now, a notice issued by the regulatory body on civil aviation today confirmed that the central government is indeed hitting the brakes on the resumption of commercial international flights and that the relevant authorities are monitoring the global coronavirus disease (Covid-19) situation, especially in the wake of the emergence of the new omicron variant which is said to be highly contagious and capable of undergoing rapid mutations.“In view of the evolving global scenario with the emergence of new variants of concern, the situation is being watched closely in consultation with all stakeholders, and an appropriate decision indicating the effective date of resumption of scheduled commercial international passenger services shall be notified in due course,” read the circular issued by the office of the DGCA on Wednesday.A decision on the resumption of commercial international flights will likely only be taken after the government finds it relatively safer to do so amid the prevailing pandemic situation. However, the international ‘air bubble’ agreements with different countries shall continue to function as they are now, officials have said.Earlier this week, junior aviation minister Gen (retired) VK Singh told the ANI news agency that there has been “tremendous pressure” from the public for the last two months to resume international scheduled flights. However, the omicron variant of the coronavirus has clouded the future of commercial international travel and put both the central and multiple state governments in a state of high alert.From December 1, India has instituted a set of new rules for arriving international passengers, especially from ‘at risk’ countries. Under the new norms, there are separate protocols for travellers arriving from countries enlisted as “at risk” of the omicron variant and nations excluded from the said list. It involves detailed guidelines on testing, sampling, and quarantine of cases detected at the airport, if any.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/india-defers-resumption-of-international-flights-with-an-eye-on-covid-19-variants-101638348499452.html
01-12-2021||India||Ahmedabad announces smartphone to lucky winner taking Covid vaccine second dose between Dec 1, 7||The Ahmedabad civic body, as part of its efforts to boost vaccination rate in the city against Covid-19, has announced a lucky draw contest on Wednesday. The winner will take home a smartphone worth ₹60,000.People who will be inoculated with the second dose of the Covid-19 vaccine, between December 1 and 7, will also eligible to enter the contest, news agency PTI reported citing the Ahmedabad Municipal Corporation (AMC). The winner of the contest would be declared later, the AMC also said.However, this is not the first occasion in which the AMC has announced incentives for people to come forward and get vaccinated against Covid-19. Earlier too, the civic body came up with incentives such as free-of-cost edible oil and a lucky draw for beneficiaries who take the Covid-19 vaccine. The aim was to create awareness about the immunisation programme and also to achieve 100% vaccine coverage, the civic body officials had said. Further, it had also announced additional gifts worth ₹10,000 for 25 people who won the lucky draw.Also read | Omicron variant: Now, Gujarat imposes curbs on passengers from ‘at risk’ nationsThe practice is not confined just to Ahmedabad. Uttarakhand announced a ‘vaccination mela’ back in October and people being jabbed during the period were told that they were eligible for a lucky draw in which they could win prizes like electric scooty, LED TV with sound system and double-door refrigerator in addition to the consolation prizes such as smartphone, tablet, microwave, kitchen appliances, food processor, oven, induction, tracksuit and shoes.Meanwhile, the Gujarat government extended the night curfew in the state’s eight big cities in view of the emergence of the Omicron (B.1.1.529) variant till December 10. The cities are Ahmedabad, Rajkot, Surat, Vadodara, Jamnagar, Bhavnagar, Gandhinagar and Junagadh.On Tuesday, the state saw 40 new Covid-19 cases and no related deaths. So far, 827,475 confirmed infections have been reported along with 10,092 deaths. Active caseload was recorded at 275.The Union health ministry said that 81,097,973 doses of the vaccine, including 45,827,741 first doses and 35,270,232 second doses, have been administered in the state as of 7am on Wednesday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/ahmedabad-announces-smartphone-to-lucky-winner-taking-covid-vaccine-second-dose-between-dec-1-7-101638349850594.html
01-12-2021||India||Indian govt looks to tackle problem of anaemia among pregnant women||The Indian government is working closely with the World Health Organisation (WHO) to tackle the problem of anaemia that affects more than 50% of pregnant women in the country.Dr. Bharati Pravin Pawar, minister of state for health and family welfare, told Parliament on Tuesday, “According to recently released National Family Health Survey V data, 52.2% pregnant women in India, who are in the age group of 15-49 years, are estimated to be anaemic.” She pointed out that the issue is prevalent across the country, with Ladakh, Bihar and Gujarat seeing the highest percentages - 78.1%, 63.1% and 62.6%, respectively. In contrast, Lakshadweep, Nagaland and Arunachal Pradesh have the lowest percentages - 20.9%, 22.9% and 27.9%, respectively. Also Read: Survey shows increase in cases of anaemia across IndiaDr. Pawar informed Parliament about the measures taken by the Centre to tackle the problem. “In 2018, the government launched the ‘Anaemia Mukt Bharat’ strategy with the aim to reduce anaemia among women, children and adolescents,” she said. The mission includes multiple measures such as testing for anaemia using digital methods, addressing non-nutritional causes of anaemia, and managing cases of severe anaemia in pregnant women through IV iron sucrose treatment or blood transfusion.The data from the survey shows a 1.8% increase in the number of pregnant women reported to be anaemic, in the age group of 15-49 years, between the periods spanning 2015-16 and 2019-2021.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/indian-govt-looks-to-tackle-problem-of-anaemia-among-pregnant-women-101638350352404.html
01-12-2021||India||‘I will be free soul’: MP woman constable who got nod to change gender||Madhya Pradesh home department permitted a woman constable on Wednesday to undergo gender change through sex reassignment surgery without affecting her service. The permission, a first for the state, was described by the constable as “life changing”. “This permission will change my life. Now, I will be a free soul and will live my life to the fullest,” she said, while talking to state home department’s additional chief secretary Rajesh Rajora.Giving details of her case, ACS Rajora said the constable was diagnosed with Gender Identity Disorder since childhood and had been working “like a man”. The constable Namita (name changed), whose real identity is not being revealed by the HT, said she has been working “fearlessly” in the police department.“I belong to a village and people used to call me ‘Tomboy’ since childhood. I have been selected as a constable through the woman’s quota seven years ago. I am the only earning member of the family. My family was very happy for my fearless work,” she said. She applied to police headquarters for permission to change her sex after a notification of her intention was published in the Gazette of India in 2019. Amita said it was not easy for society to accept her decision.“They always appreciated my way of talking like male but when I told them that I want to go for sex reassignment surgery, they were shocked. They thought it was impossible for a female to change her sex to become a male. They are opposing it but a social organisation helped me in it [going forward with the decision],” Amita said. Also Read: Covid patients to be hospitalised, no isolation at home in BhopalFollowing her application, the police headquarters sought permission from the home department for the employee to undergo gender change without affecting her employment. The home department released the order on Wednesday to the Director General of Police (DGP), permitting Amita (name changed) to change her sex, Rajora said. Amita says the permission means she now has the freedom to end the duality.“I am a man trapped in a woman’s body. From outside, I have changed my lifestyle like a man but I always feel suffocated for befooling myself with just materialistic change, not by physical changes,” she said, giving a glimpse of her battles. Director general of police Vivek Johri said, “It is happening for the first time in MP and we are glad that the woman constable succeeded in changing the course of her life”.
01-12-2021||India||Peninsular India recorded highest rainfall in November since 1901||India’s peninsular region recorded the highest ever rainfall in November since 1901 with Andhra Pradesh, Tamil Nadu, Puducherry, Kerala and south interior Karnataka receiving 169% excess rainfall last month, the India Meteorological Department (IMD) said on Wednesday. It was mainly because of five low-pressure systems over the Andaman Sea in November compared to 2.4 on an average in November. The northeast monsoon was also in its active phase last month. The IMD said 645 heavy (64.5 to 115.5 mm), 168 very heavy (115.6 to 204.5 mm), and 11 extremely heavy rainfall events (over 204.5 mm) in November were also the highest over the last five years in the country. It also issued a probabilistic forecast for minimum and maximum temperatures for the winter months-- December to February. IMD said normal to above normal minimum temperatures were likely in parts of northwest India, most parts of south and northeast India, and some areas along the Himalayan foothills. Minimum temperatures are likely to be below normal in parts of the north interior peninsula. There is a higher probability of normal temperatures during winter in Haryana, Punjab, and Delhi. Also Read: Parts of Mumbai, Thane may see heavy rain today, cyclone alert for OdishaMaximum temperatures are likely to be below normal in most parts of the country except some in northwest India and most parts of northeast India, where normal to above normal temperatures are likely, IMD said. The rain in December in the peninsular region is likely to be above normal at around 132% of the long-period average. A cyclone watch has also been issued for the north Andhra Pradesh and Odisha coasts. Depression likely to form over the southeast and adjoining east-central Bay of Bengal by Thursday was expected to intensify into Cyclonic Storm Jawad over the central Bay of Bengal during the subsequent 24 hours. Subsequently, it is likely to move northwestwards, intensify further and reach near north Andhra Pradesh-Odisha coasts around December 4. The maximum impact of the storm is likely to be in north Andhra Pradesh and Odisha. Gangetic West Bengal is also expected to record very heavy rain on December 5.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/peninsular-india-recorded-highest-rainfall-in-november-since-1901-101638348552140.html
01-12-2021||India||OPS-EPS duo amends AIADMK bylaws to shut doors on VK Sasikala||The All India Anna Dravida Munnetra Kazhagam (AIADMK) on Wednesday amended its bylaws to strengthen norms that will help retain the present leadership structure of top two positions held by O Panneerselvam (also known as OPS) and Edappadi K Palaniswami (EPS).The amendments to the bylaws effectively closes the door on VK Sasikala, who has recently started claiming to be the 'general secretary’ of the main opposition party in Tamil Nadu.The amendments effected at the Executive Committee meeting of the AIADMK held in Chennai mandate a 'single vote' by 'primary members' to elect the top leadership, which is the two positions of coordinator and joint coordinator.Also read | AIADMK boots out minority wing secy Anwhar Raajhaa for supporting VK SasikalaWhile the changes introduced in 2017 had bestowed all the powers vested with the top position of general secretary to the then newly created positions of party coordinator (Panneerselvam) and joint coordinator (Palaniswami), the current tweaks further strengthen that top party structure.While the posts are two, there cannot be separate votes, as the twin positions together constitute the party top leadership.According to the AIADMK, Sasiakala is not a member of the party, though she has claimed to be the general secretary. Senior leader D Jayakumar told reporters that only those who have been primary members for five years or more are eligible to vote to elect the party leadership(With inputs from agencies)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/opseps-duo-amends-aiadmk-bylaws-to-shut-doors-on-vk-sasikala-101638346872628.html
01-12-2021||India||Elgar Parishad case: Bombay high court grants bail to Sudha Bharadwaj||: The Bombay high court on Wednesday granted default bail to activist Sudha Bharadwaj but rejected the applications of eight co-accused facing terrorism and conspiracy charges for allegedly fomenting violence in Maharashtra’s Bhima Koregaon village in 2018.This is the first time that a person accused in the high-profile case has been granted default bail, which can be given if a person is jailed for more than 90 days without a charge sheet. One of the other accused, poet Varavara Rao, is out on medical bail, and a second accused, Jesuit priest Stan Swamy, died in July. All other 14 accused are in custody as under-trial prisoners.Also Read | Elgar Parishad case: Sudha Bharadwaj moves Bombay HC, seeks default bailA division bench of justices S S Shinde and N J Jamadar said Bharadwaj filed her default bail application on November 26, 2018 -- before the expiry of the detention period cutoff on January 25, 2019 -- but her application was valid. The charge sheet was filed on February 21, 2019.Also Read | Elgar Parishad case: Furnish records of Sudha Bharadwaj’s default bail plea, HC tells Maharashtra govt“On the touchstone of the guarantee of personal liberty under Article 21 of the Constitution, in our view, to deprive the applicant Sudha Bharadwaj of the indefeasible right on the premise that the application preferred on 26th November 2018 was premature, would be taking a too technical and formalistic view of the matter,” said the 120-page order.“In our view, all the requisite conditions to release the applicant Sudha Bharadwaj on default bail stood fully satisfied,” the judges added.The bench directed Bharadwaj, currently lodged in the Byculla women’s jail in Mumbai, be produced before the Mumbai special National Investigation Agency (NIA) court on December 8 to decide the conditions of her bail and date of release. It rejected NIA’s request for a stay on Bharadwaj’s bail for two weeks.But the court held that Bharadwaj’s co-accused -- Rao, Sudhir Dhawale, Mahesh Raut, Vernon Gonsalves, Arun Ferreira, Rona Wilson, Shoma Sen and Surendra Gadling -- didn’t qualify for automatic bail.Also Read | No illegality in Elgar Parishad case accused Sudha Bharadwaj’s detention: Maharashtra govt to HCAt least 16 activists, lawyers and authors are facing charges under the Unlawful Activities Prevention Act (UAPA) for participating in an alleged Maoist conspiracy to trigger violence on January 1, 2018, in Bhima Koregaon village in Maharashtra’s Pune district. The event, attended mostly by Dalit communities, marked the bicentennial celebration of a British-era war.The activists are accused of delivering inflammatory speeches during an event called Elgar Parishad organised in Pune on December 31, 2017. The NIA took over the probe from the Pune Police on February 12, 2020 after the Central government had ordered the transfer on January 24, 2020. The activists have denied all charges and accused the prosecution of planting evidence.Bharadwaj, arguably the most prominent of the arrested activists, applied for default bail arguing that sessions judge K D Vadane, who granted Pune Police a 90-day extension on November 26, 2018, to file the charge sheet, did not have jurisdiction to do so as only a special NIA court could hear UAPA cases.Her advocate, Yug Chaudhry, cited responses from the high court’s registry under the Right to Information Act to say that Vadane was not competent to hear matters under UAPA. He added that Vadane was not even authorised as a special judge to take cognisance of the Pune Police’s supplementary charge sheet filed on February 21, 2019.Chaudhry cited a Supreme Court judgement that held only special courts can hear cases under the UAPA.The other applications argued that additional sessions judges of the Pune sessions court had not been designated as special judges and therefore, could not have taken cognisance of their case registered under UAPA.But the high court found that the other petitions were not filed before the charge sheet or supplementary charge sheet were submitted, and therefore couldn’t be allowed.“We have seen that where the accused fails to apply for default bail when the right accrues to him and subsequently a chargesheet is filed before the magistrate, the right to default bail would get extinguished as it cannot be said that the accused ‘availed of’ his right to be released on default bail,” said the court orderBharadwaj was first placed under house arrest on August 28, 2018. She was taken into custody on October 27, 2018 by Pune police. On November 22, 2018, Pune Police sought an extension for filing the chargesheet and Bharadwaj subsequently filed a plea seeking default bail on the ground that the 90-day period of her custody was over. On November 26, 2018, judge Vadane granted an additional 90 days to Pune Police to file their chargesheet.“A crucial condition of ‘availing of’ the right so as to cement it as an indefeasible right, has not been fulfilled and the right stood extinguished by the filing of the charge-sheet on 21st February 2019. Failure to take cognizance or defect in the jurisdiction in taking cognizance, once the charge sheet was laid, does not entail the consequence of default bail,” the court held.Advocate general Ashutosh Kumbhakoni, who represented the state, opposed Chaudhry’s argument saying Bharadwaj was booked under UAPA but as per the NIA Act, hearings were to be held before a special judge only during the trial and not during pre-trial proceedings. Kumbhakoni also argued that special judges were required only when the NIA probed a case. He added as the NIA took over the probe after the Centre ordered its transfer from Pune Police on January 24, 2020, there were no lapses in Vadane’s November 2018 order.Additional solicitor general Anil Singh, who appeared for NIA, opposed Bharadwaj’s bail arguing the extension did not prejudice her rights.A default bail application under section 167 (2) of the Code of Criminal Procedure (CrPC) can be filed when an investigating agency does not file a charge sheet within 90 days of arresting an accused. The 90-day period can be extended by a court if it feels that the prosecution deserves more time. But the HC found that the sessions judge was not authorised to do so under law.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/elgar-parishad-case-hc-grants-bail-to-sudha-bharadwaj-101638343691724.html
01-12-2021||India||News updates from HT: ‘Pray Gandhi gives them wisdom,’ says Joshi in Parliament and all the latest news||Here are today’s top news, analysis and opinion. Know all about the latest news and other news updates from Hindustan Times.Parliament: Pray Gandhi gives them wisdom, says Joshi as suspended MPs continue stirUnion minister of parliamentary affairs Pralhad Joshi said on Wednesday he would pray that Mahatma Gandhi gave wisdom to the suspended Rajya Sabha MPs who were staging a protest near his statue on Parliament premises. Read morePetrol price in Delhi likely to come downThe petrol price in the Capital is likely to come down as the Delhi government is planning to reduce VAT on it. Read more‘No record of farmers’ death during protests’: Govt informs ParliamentThe government has no record of the farmers who had died during the year-long farmers’ protests and hence there was no question of providing compensation to their families, the Union government informed Parliament on Wednesday. Read moreChill in hills: Snow, rain forecast in Himachal Pradesh till December 4The western disturbance active over the region will bring rain and snow in Himachal Pradesh till December 4. Read moreTwinkle Khanna shares how she and Akshay Kumar divide the bills, reveals she pays for Aarav-Nitara’s educationTwinkle Khanna opened up about how she and her husband Akshay Kumar divide expenses between themselves. Read more‘Not like he has not been among the runs in 1-2 Tests': Karthik wants India senior to be dropped, says there's 'no harm'Indian cricketer Dinesh Karthik believes there will be no harm in dropping Ajinkya Rahane for the second India-New Zealand Test in Mumbai as there is no way Shreyas Iyer can be dropped after his dream debut in Test and that a break can also work in favour of the stand-in captain. Read moreKatrina Kaif's ₹2 lakh pink saree for Dubai event is made for wedding cocktails, brides-to-be take notesActor Katrina Kaif, rumoured to be tying knot with Vicky Kaushal in December, recently attended an event in Expo 2020 Dubai. The star took to Instagram today to share photos of herself at the occasion, and she looks absolutely divine in them. Details hereKia Carens RV set for unveil this month. The name, target audience explainedWhile the name has been doing the rounds for quite some time now, Kia India on Wednesday confirmed that its next offering for the country will indeed be called Kia Carens. Read more||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/news-updates-from-ht-petrol-price-in-delhi-likely-to-come-down-101638342122396.html
01-12-2021||India||‘New anti-trafficking law sans clarity on AHTUs will be toothless’||The quality and outcome of investigations of human trafficking cases done by specialised Anti Human Trafficking Units (AHTUs) are starkly different from those done by the local police stations. While the investigation by the local police is mostly restricted to the jurisdiction of the police station, AHTU investigations spread across both source and destination states, linking the chain of events and crimes with the traffickers. leading to a robust investigation. It is trite law that in a case of circumstantial evidence, unless the chain of circumstance is complete, conviction cannot be based on the same. The said chain cannot be said to be complete if no investigation happens at all the seats of crime. However, unfortunately, the AHTUs across the country are running on the basis of state notifications. There is no statutory support regarding these specialised units. The Immoral Traffic (Prevention) Act, 1956 does not mention anything about AHTUs, neither does Section 370 IPC. AHTUs get their power from what we call ‘subordinate legislation’, namely the executive notifications. Unless these bodies get statutory recognition and support their roles, responsibilities and accountability will remain a grey area. Under the Code of Criminal Procedures, there are specific provisions dealing with the power and functioning of the police. Similarly, the power and functioning of the AHTUs needs to be clarified in the legislation meant to combat human trafficking. Without that, these units will lose its teeth and or will remain unempowered to take action against the organised crime of trafficking.Research on the functionality of AHTUs, conducted in 2019, shows that the progress in creating and legitimising AHTUs across the country has not been a priority with a majority of them having remained notional offices with no dedicated officers and nominal budgets for infrastructure and operational costs coming from the central government, often diverted and used for other matters than what they were meant for. However, the issue of slack in formalising AHTUs has not been drawn into concern by any agency, including anti trafficking NGOs which, in turn, to strengthen the anti-trafficking response. Evidence from several cases in West Bengal show that even when local police stations conducting investigation of trafficking cases are urged to transfer the cases to AHTUs, they are reluctant. This is despite the direction by the Calcutta high court in the case of “Sangita Sahu” (2018) that all cases of human trafficking must be sent to thr AHTU within 24 hours of its registration.  Writ petitions had to be filed in several cases to get the investigation transferred to the AHTUs. One speculates that this is a systemic resistance to avoid having to create and empower AHTUs in every district of the country as has been suggested by the Union ministry of home affairs multiple times to the state governments. Thus, AHTUs need a legislative mandate. That the crime of human trafficking is required to be responded with organised law enforcement is something even the Immoral Traffic Prevention Act of 1956 had envisioned and therefore directed that Special Police Officers be appointed in every state to investigate crimes of human trafficking with special powers. However, this has been neglected then. In 2006, the MHA passed a directive to state government to constitute AHTUs. In most states there are a handful of AHTUs and a number of notional AHTUs without any kind of notification or appointment of officials.  According to a recent study by Sanjog, only 27% of AHTUs are functional and 51% being notified with all the powers and resources. The study based on RTI responses from 22 states and UTs also revealed that 225 AHTUs are set up only on paper with no centralised process to notify them.The draft Trafficking in Persons (Prevention, Care and Rehabilitation) Bill, 2021, for which the women and child development ministry had asked for feedback in July, mentioned that the National Investigation Agency (NIA) will be responsible for investigation, prosecution and coordination in cases of trafficking in persons. Unfortunately, it does not clarify the role, functioning and accountability of AHTUs. If the trafficking Bill do not define the role and functions of the AHTU and the relationship between AHTU and NIA is not clarified, and if all of this are kept under the state model rule as being speculated, this would be completely arbitrary because state rules cannot go beyond the statute. So, if the legislation comes in without clarifying the roles and responsibilities of the AHTU, it would lead to local police stations continuing to register cases and not sending those to AHTU, and the investigation will be perfunctory as they do not have either human or financial resource to conduct interstate investigation nor are they well equipped to coordinate with other state agencies. Therefore, the conviction rate will remain low and trafficking will continue in its full force.  According to the NCRB data, the conviction rate in human trafficking cases in 2020 was 10.6 per cent which might be due to the lack of easy transportation due to the pandemic. It was 29.4% in 2018 and 22% in 2019.The local police will continue to conduct arbitrary raids and rescues in brothels and will neglect cases of labour trafficking cases because they will only act on complains received. However, the AHTU has the ability and recourses to gather intelligence and identify trafficking victims and not criminalise them. If the proposed trafficking law does not elaborate on the functions of AHTU, as a lawyer I find it is going to be a real disappointment.(Kaushik Gupta is an advocate at Calcutta high court who provides legal counsel to more than 75 survivors of human trafficking in India)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/new-anti-trafficking-law-sans-clarity-on-ahtus-will-be-of-no-use-101638340237258.html
01-12-2021||India||Qualcomm’s Snapdragon 8 Gen 1 chips will power Android flagship phones in 2022||Android flagship phones will get a new top-of-the-line processor next year. Qualcomm has announced the Snapdragon 8 Gen 1 will be available to phone makers sometime in the next few weeks, much ahead of the next line of flagship phone launches. This will succeed the Snapdragon 888 chip and see Qualcomm ditch the triple-digit naming scheme. The headline improvements which the Snapdragon 8 Gen 1 chips usher in include the usual suspects—a new mobile camera platform including updates to the image signal processing, new 5G modem and support for Wi-Fi 6 and Wi-Fi 6E standards, improvements to the artificial intelligence (AI) engine, lossless audio support on wireless streaming, a new Adreno GPU for graphics as well as gaming, and a dedicated platform for data security, a first for a Snapdragon chip. If you’re looking for the core specs (which you must be), you’ll be impressed. The Snapdragon 8 Gen 1 chips introduce a new architecture for the 8-core Kryo CPU. This will have a primary core that will clock up to 3GHz for performance tasks, three cores that will clock up to 2.5GHz and four cores that will be tuned for efficiency and for apps which don’t need any more processing power (these will clock at 1.8GHz). The Snapdragon 8 Gen 1 chips are 4-nanometer, which is a step forward from the 5-namometer process used in the Snapdragon 888. Also Read: Nokia T20 can stop the budget Android tablet market from drifting aimlesslyQualcomm confirms that phone makers have already confirmed flagship phones with the Snapdragon 8 Gen 1 chips. These include OnePlus, OPPO, iQoo, Realme, Redmi, Sony Corporation, Vivo, Xiaomi, Sharp, Motorola, Black Shark, Honor and ZTE. Qualcomm indicates the performance benefit will be as much as 20 percent compared with the predecessor and will also be 30 percent more power efficient. The Adreno GPU is also 30 percent faster with rendering and up to 25 percent more battery efficient.“As the world’s most advanced mobile platform, Snapdragon is synonymous with premium Android experiences and the new Snapdragon 8 Gen 1 sets the standard for the next generation of flagship mobile devices,” said Alex Katouzian, senior vice president and general manager of mobile, compute, and infrastructure, Qualcomm Technologies, Inc. It is again a triple ISP (image signal processor) system in place. The Qualcomm Spectra Image Signal Processor will support recording of 8K videos with HDR 10+ format. This has an 18-bit ISP which Qualcomm says can process 4,000 times more data than the 14-bit Spectra ISP in the Snapdragon 888. These camera systems, when maxed out, can shoot at up to 3.2 gigapixels per second—that’ll help in processing data from higher-spec cameras at the same time, something which is now common in triple-camera systems in phones.
01-12-2021||India||Delhi govt slashes VAT on fuel to 19.4%, petrol gets cheaper by ₹8 per litre||The Delhi government on Wednesday slashed the value added tax (VAT) to fuel price from 30% to 19.40%, making petrol cheaper by ₹8 per litre in the national capital.The decision was taken during a Cabinet meeting chaired by chief minister Arvind Kejriwal earlier in the day.Taking to Twitter, soon after announcing the decision, Kejriwal said once implemented the fuel price would become cheaper in Delhi as compared to other cities in the national capital region.दिल्ली में आज हमने पेट्रोल काफ़ी सस्ता कर दिया। VAT की दर 30% से घटाकर 19.4% कर दी। NCR के अन्य शहरों के मुक़ाबले दिल्ली में पेट्रोल और डीज़ल सस्ता हो गया। मैं उम्मीद करता हूँ कि इस कदम से दिल्ली के लोगों को महंगाई से राहत मिलेगी।The Centre cut excise duty on petrol by ₹5 per litre and ₹10 per litre on diesel to bring down the retail prices across the country on the eve of Diwali last month.Following the Centre's surprise move, several states and Union territories, especially those governed by the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) and allies, also followed suit. The price of fuel remained unchanged for the 28th straight day on Wednesday across the country, following the Centre's decision. Before the Delhi government's decision to slash VAT on fuel price, petrol fetched ₹103.97 a litre while diesel was being sold for ₹86.67 per litre earlier in the day.On the day, the rates of petrol and diesel varied across several cities. While petrol cost ₹95.51 a litre in neighbouring Noida, in Gurugram it fetched ₹95.9 for each litre, ₹94.23 in Chandigarh, ₹95.28 in Lucknow and ₹107.06 in Jaipur. The price of petrol in other metro cities also remained above the 100-mark. While in Mumbai it cost the highest at ₹109.98 a litre, in Kolkata it came for ₹104.67, while in Chennai, Bengaluru and Hyderabad it cost ₹101.4, ₹100.58 and ₹108.2, respectively.Similarly, diesel fetched ₹87.01 a litre in Noida while it cost ₹87.11 in neighbouring Gurugram. In Chandigarh, diesel cost ₹80.9 for each litre, ₹86.8 in Lucknow and ₹90.7 in Jaipur. Among the metros, diesel came for ₹94.14 in Mumbai, ₹89.79 in Kolkata, ₹91.43 in Chennai while in Bengaluru and Hyderabad it cost ₹85.01 and ₹94.62, respectively.Government-run oil refiners such as Indian Oil, Bharat Petroleum, and Hindustan Petroleum revise the fuel rates on a daily basis, by taking into account the crude oil prices in the international markets, and the rupee-dollar exchange rates.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/delhi-govt-slashes-vat-to-19-40-petrol-gets-cheaper-by-rs-8-per-litre-101638341169010.html
01-12-2021||India||Parliament: Pray Gandhi gives them wisdom, says Joshi as suspended MPs continue stir||Union minister of parliamentary affairs Pralhad Joshi said on Wednesday he would pray that Mahatma Gandhi gave wisdom to the suspended Rajya Sabha MPs who were staging a protest near his statue on Parliament premises.“If the 12 suspended members of the Rajya Sabha want to come to the House, then they should express remorse. Let them sit on dharna… I pray Mahatma Gandhi gives them wisdom,” Joshi was quoted as saying by news agency ANI.Earlier, Rajya Sabha Chairman Venkaiah Naidu, expressing his dismay at the conduct of Opposition leaders inside the House, said the suspended MPs had shown no remorse, and there was no question of revoking their suspension.As the din continued for the third day of the winter session of Parliament, followed by an adjournment, Naidu ordered that nothing that the Opposition MPs say would go on record but said their conduct in the Well of the House should be shown to the people of the country.Oppn MPs protest near Gandhi statue over suspension of 12 RS membersRajya Sabha proceedings were on Wednesday adjourned for almost an hour as placard-carrying opposition MPs trooped into the well of the House and shouted slogans against the suspension of 12 MPs for their "unruly" behaviour.Among those suspended six MPs MPs are from the Congress, two each from the Trinamool Congress and Shiv Sena, and one each from the CPI and CPM.The12 opposition MPs were suspended from the Rajya Sabha on Monday for the entire Winter session of Parliament for their "unruly" conduct in the previous session in August, even as the Opposition termed the suspension as "undemocratic and in violation of all the Rules of Procedure" of the Upper House.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/parliament-pray-gandhi-gives-them-wisdom-says-union-minister-as-mps-protest-101638340525331.html
01-12-2021||India||‘No record of farmers’ death during protests’: Govt informs Parliament, says no plans for compensation||The government has no record of the farmers who had died during the year-long farmers’ protests and hence there was no question of providing compensation to their families, the Union government informed Parliament on Wednesday.“The ministry of agriculture and farmers welfare has no record in the matter and hence the question does not arise,” the Union ministry of agriculture told the House in reply to a question asking if the Centre intends to provide financial assistance to the families of those who died during the protests."The Ministry of Agriculture and Farmer's Welfare has no record in the matter and hence the question does not arise,": Government in Parliament to the question on whether it proposes to provide financial assistance to the kin of farmers who died during the agitation'Leaders from the Opposition and the protesting farmer unions have said that as many as 700 farmers lost their lives during the demonstrations at Delhi’s borders against the Centre’s three contentious laws, repealed by the government on Monday after passing the Farm Laws Repeal Bill, 2021. The Opposition had criticised the Centre for passing the bill in both houses without any discussion.Meanwhile, the government’s statement on having no record of data about the farmers’ death is also likely to be criticised by the opposition.Earlier on Tuesday, Congress leader Manish Tewari moved an adjournment motion in the Lok Sabha requesting “to direct the government to create a record of farmers who lost their lives during farm laws protest and give compensation to their families” and called it a matter of “urgent importance” according to a report by ANI.“During the course of the agitation, many farmers lost their lives to the harsh weather, alleged use of force by the state and violent attacks on farmers lives notably the incident that happened in Lakhimpur Kheri where farmers were allegedly run over by fast moving vehicles,” he said in his letter to the Secretary-General of the Lower House. “The government should create a record of farmers who lost their lives protesting the farm laws and give compensation to their families. Sir, I wish to raise this grave matter of disregard of lives of farmers by the government,” he added. He had also moved a similar adjournment motion on Monday.The Samyukt Kisan Morcha, an umbrella body of several farmer unions spearheading the protests, is also demanding compensation for farmers who died during the protests, along with a legal guarantee on minimum support price (MSP).||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/no-record-of-farmers-death-during-protests-govt-informs-parliament-says-no-compensation-101638339553521.html
01-12-2021||India||Bombay HC says activist Sudha Bharadwaj entitled to default bail in Elgar Parishad case||The Bombay high court on Wednesday allowed an application of default bail to activist and Elgar Parishad accused Sudha Bharadwaj, who has been kept in Byculla women’s prison, and directed her to approach a special court of the National Investigation Agency (NIA) in the city for bail.A bench of Justices SS Shinde and NJ Jamadar court said the lawyer-activist is entitled to default bail in the case and directed the special court to decide on bail conditions.However, the HC rejected the default bail pleas of the other eight co-accused, including P Varavara Rao, Sudhir Dhawale, Mahesh Raut, Vernon Gonsalves, Arun Ferreira, Rona Wilson, Shoma Sen and Surendra Gadling.Bharadwaj had applied for default bail on the grounds that the sessions judge of Pune court who had passed the order extending the time for Pune Police to file the chargesheet by 90 days did not have jurisdiction to hear the application, while a special NIA court was already present to hear cases of accused booked under the Unlawful Activities (Prevention) Act (UAPA).The court directed Bharadwaj to approach the special NIA court by December 8 so that it may decide on her release and bail conditions.(With inputs from bureau)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/bombay-hc-says-sudha-bharadwaj-entitled-to-default-bail-in-elgar-parishad-case-101638336853774.html
01-12-2021||India||151 inmates died in police custody this year: Govt||As many as 151 inmates have died in police custody this year, the union home ministry told Parliament on Tuesday in response to Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) member Varun Gandhi’s question. Gandhi sought a state-wise division of custodial deaths.The ministry cited the National Human Rights Commission (NHRC) data and added Maharashtra reported 26 such deaths, the highest among the states. At least 13 states did not register any custodial deaths, it added.A recent National Crime Records Bureau (NCRB) report identified suicides, illness, injuries sustained before and during police custody, attempts to escape from custody among the causes of deaths in custody.The ministry said police and public order are state subjects and added that because of this, the Centre does not intervene directly in the matters of custodial deaths.“It is primarily the responsibility of the State Government concerned to appropriately prevent and ensure non-occurrence of police atrocities and protect the human rights of the citizens,” the ministry said.In response to BJP member Jagdambika Pal’s separate question, the ministry said there has not been an increase in the number of custodial violence cases. It said that during the last three years, 19 cases of prison violence have been registered with NHRC. No death resulted from such violence, it added.Also Read: Main accused in student leader’s killing dies in accident, say policeThere is a mismatch in the data provided in the two responses and in the NCRB findings. NCRB reported 76 deaths in police custody in 2020 compared to 85 in 2019.“Information on deaths in police custody in India is officially reported by the NHRC and the NCRB. It is extremely unfortunate that even for something as grave and unambiguous as a police custody death, there has always been a mismatch in the data reported by both these institutions,” said Raja Bagga, senior researcher, Police Reform Programme, Commonwealth Human Rights Initiative.He added that in 2019 and 2020, according to the NCRB reports, police custody deaths were 85 and 76 whereas NHRC’s data for the same years showed 117 and at least 83 deaths. “One of the possible reasons for this is the absence of any standard definition and categorisation of police custody deaths.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/151-inmates-have-died-in-police-custody-in-2021-govt-101638336939995.html
01-12-2021||India||Parliament: Oppn MPs protest near Gandhi statue over suspension of 12 RS members||Leaders of Opposition parties on Wednesday staged a protest beneath the Mahatma Gandhi statue on the Parliament premises seeking revocation of suspension of 12 Rajya Sabha members.Among the MPs who participated in the agitation were Congress leaders Rahul Gandhi, Mallikarjun Kharge, Trinamool Congress’ Sougata Roy and Mohua Moitra and Sena MP Priyanka Chaturvedi.“We are demanding the revocation of suspension of 12 Opposition members of the Rajya Sabha. We will hold a meeting and decide the future course of action,” Kharge said.The 12 MPs from the opposition parties were suspended from the remainder of Parliament's winter session for allegedly creating ruckus on the last day of the monsoon session.The suspension came after Union minister of parliamentary affairs Pralhad Joshi on Monday wrote to Rajya Sabha chairman M Venkaiah Naidu, who is also the Vice President, over the alleged violence on the last day of the monsoon session and sought action for the ‘indiscipline’.The suspended MPs include six from the Congress -- Phulo Devi Netam, Chhaya Verma, R Bora, Rajamani Patel, Syed Nasir Hussain and Akhilesh Prasad Singh -- TMC’s Dola Sen and Shanta Chhetri, Priyanka Chaturvedi and Anil Desai of the Shiv Sena and CPM’s Elamaram Kareem and Binoy Viswam of the CPI.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/parliament-oppn-mps-protest-near-gandhi-statue-over-suspension-of-12-rs-members-101638335755078.html
01-12-2021||India||Uttar Pradesh exam paper leak: Top official arrested||Uttar Pradesh Police’s Special Task Force (STF) on Wednesday arrested Sanjay Kumar Upadhyay, the suspended secretary of Exam Regulatory Authority, in connection with the teachers’ eligibility test question papers leak. As many as 37 people have been arrested in connection with the leak over the last four days.Additional director general (STF) Amitabh Yash said Upadhyaya was arrested after hours of questioning related to the leak. Rai Anoop Prasad, the director of a Delhi-based printing press, was earlier arrested on Tuesday over his alleged involvement in the matter.Another STF officer said Prasad told investigators that Upadhyay issued an order to his company on October 26 for printing the question papers. He added the two were found to have allegedly violated the secrecy protocol while printing the papers.Also Read: Main accused in student leader’s killing dies in accident, say policeUpadhyay was on Tuesday suspended for being allegedly negligent in ensuring smooth and fair conduct of the test and failing to maintain confidentiality.The state-level exam is conducted once a year for the recruitment of primary and upper primary school teachers.The state government cancelled the test on Sunday after the leak came to light following the arrest of 29 people from five districts and recovery of question papers from some of them on Saturday night.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/uttar-pradesh-exam-paper-leak-top-official-arrested-101638334839241.html
01-12-2021||India||Main accused in student leader’s killing dies in accident, say police||The main accused in a student leader’s lynching in Assam’s Jorhat district on Monday was killed when he jumped off a police van and was hit by an escort vehicle in the early hours of Wednesday, a police officer said.Jorhat police superintendent Ankur Jain said during interrogation, Niraj Das, a criminal with a record of drug trafficking who was among the 13 people arrested for beating All Assam Students Union office-bearer Animesh Bhuyan to death, told them about a consignment drugs. “Our team took him to recover it, but when the vehicle reached an empty stretch of road on the outskirts of Jorhat, he managed to jump out of the moving vehicle. The incident happened around 2:10 am.” Jain added the escort vehicle hit Das. “Our driver tried to avoid hitting him but could not. The driver of the vehicle lost control and hit a nearby wall injuring three policemen. An injured Das was rushed to the Jorhat Medical College Hospital where he was declared brought dead.”Police said Das fought with policemen accompanying him before jumping off.Also Read: Northeast witnessed 187 insurgency-related incidents till Nov 15, Lok Sabha toldDas was alleged to have led a mob that assaulted Bhuyan and two others over suspicion of hitting the former’s father, Mohan Das, who was riding a scooter, with their vehicle. Police found that Mohan Das lost his balance and fell down. But when the three tried to help, he claimed they hit his scooter. The mob soon gathered at the spot and assaulted the three. A video of the incident, which went viral, showed a group of men including Niraj Das assaulting Bhuyan. A police team rushed to the spot and rushed Bhuyan to the hospital where he was declared dead.On Tuesday, police produced 12 of the 13 accused in a local court, which sent seven of them in police custody for five days. The remaining were sent in judicial custody. Niraj Das was not produced in court on Tuesday.. 
01-12-2021||India||61 elephants died due to train hits between 2016 and 2019: CAG report||A Comptroller and Auditor General (CAG) audit analysis report presented in the Rajya Sabha on Tuesday said that at least 61 elephants had died between 2016 and 2019 across the country due to Indian Railway’s deficiency in providing elephant passage corridors and enforcement of precautionary measures like speed restrictions.The audit also pointed out that the forest department along with the railways had not prioritised construction of underpass/ overpass across railway tracks to facilitate elephant movement. The report also mentioned that several elephant corridor signage boards were incorrectly positioned, defeating their very purpose of forewarning loco drivers.The report said that a committee of senior officials of ministry of railways (MoR) and the ministry of environment and forests (MoEF) was constituted in January 2013 to evolve an action plan for eliminating instances of elephant mortalities due to train hits. However, the elephants continued to die on railway tracks. According to the CAG report, from 2016-17 to 2018-19, 61 elephants died due to collisions with trains including 37 deaths in the identified passages and 24 deaths outside it. The report stated that precautionary measures like speed restrictions were not being enforced in the notified elephant passages. Also Read: Farmer killed by big cat in Dudhwa buffer zone“There was no uniformity in dimension, height, colour and content of the elephant signage boards in Indian Railways. They were also placed in incorrect position defeating their purpose of forewarning the drivers. Honey bee sound devices were not installed in some of the zonal railways,” the report added. The report pointed out that the advisories for imposition of 50 kmph speed restriction in identified elephant passages were not being “scrupulously” followed by the zonal railways. “The partial implementation of speed restrictions was causing death of elephants,” the report read. It also said that the periodical review of vegetation clearance was not being conducted by railways and the forest officials jointly. Moreover, deployment of elephant trackers by forest departments in elephant passages and their communication with railway authorities was not found effective in the audit.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/61-elephant-deaths-between-2016-19-in-train-hits-cag-report-101638333759656.html
01-12-2021||India||India reports 8,954 new Covid-19 cases, active cases below 100,000-mark after 547 days||With 8,954 new Covid-19 cases reported across the country on Wednesday, India witnessed a slight uptick in the daily infection tally, a day after it reported 6,990 cases on Tuesday. As many as 267 people lost their lives to the viral infection in the past 24 hours, which is also higher than the 190 casualties reported on Tuesday. The total confirmed infections reached 34,596,776 while the death toll stood at 469,247.#Unite2FightCorona#LargestVaccineDrive𝐂𝐎𝐕𝐈𝐃 𝐅𝐋𝐀𝐒𝐇https://t.co/poZlRihr3q pic.twitter.com/Xu5UOLtZAkThe active caseload fell below the 100,000-mark after 547 days, the Union health ministry said. It declined by 1,520 cases and stood at 99,023, the data showed. “Active cases account for less than 1% of total cases, currently at 0.29%; Lowest since March 2020,” the ministry said in a statement.Also read | Omicron: New curbs in place for arrivals from ‘at-risk’ nations at Delhi, Mumbai airportsThe daily recoveries continued to remain higher than daily infections. Data updated on Wednesday showed 10,207 people were discharged from hospitals during the previous 24 hours as the total recoveries reached 34,028,506 with a recovery rate of 98.36%, the highest since March 2020, the ministry said.Medical workers in the country tested 1,108,467 samples for the disease in the last 24 hours as the cumulative number of samples tested reached  642,412,315, the Indian Council for Medical Research (ICMR) said. As far as vaccinations are concerned, the cumulative number of doses administered under the country’s vaccination drive exceeded the 1.24 billion-mark. “With the administration of 80,98,716vaccine doses in the last 24 hours, India’s COVID-19 vaccination coverage has exceeded 124.10 Cr (1,24,10,86,850) as per provisional reports till 7 am today,” the ministry said in a statement. Also, more than 241 million vaccine doses are remaining unutilised with states and Union territories.The Union government’s new guidelines governing the arrival of international passengers in the country, in light of the new Omicron variant, came into effect on the day. The Centre has also asked states and UTs to enhance testing against the disease and strengthen their testing infrastructure to better monitor the transmission of the new variant in the country. Union health minister Mansukh Mandaviya on Tuesday informed the Rajya Sabha that no cases of the new variant was detected in India as of November 30.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/india-reports-8-954-new-covid-19-cases-active-cases-below-100-000-mark-after-547-days-101638332841166.html
01-12-2021||India||RT-PCR, home quarantine: India revises rules for int’l arrivals over Omicron concerns||Starting Wednesday, a new set of rules will come into effect for international travellers arriving in the country. The rules have been revised in view of the rising concerns over the emergence of the new coronavirus variant, named 'Omicron', that has been termed as a "variant of concern" by the World Health Organisation (WHO).Among the latest guidelines, the Union health ministry has mandated RT-PCR test passengers arriving from ‘at-risk’ nations’.According to the health ministry, the countries designated as "at-risk" are the European countries, including the UK, South Africa, Brazil, Botswana, China, Mauritius, New Zealand, Zimbabwe, Singapore, Hong Kong and Israel.Here are the key points to know:> According to the new guidelines, passengers arriving in India are required to submit the self-declaration form on the online Air Suvidha Portal before the scheduled travel. They are also required to submit the last 14 days travel details.> The guidelines also mandated uploading of negative RT-PCR test reports on the Air Suvidha portal before the journey. The test should have been conducted within 72 hours prior to undertaking the journey.> Travellers from 'countries at-risk' will need to take the Covid-19 test post-arrival. They will be then asked to wait at the airport premise until the result comes.> In case of a negative test result, the traveller will be asked to home-quarantine for seven days as a precautionary measure. They will have to take a retest on eighth day and if negative, further self-monitor for the next seven days.> In case of a positive test result, the samples will be sent for genomic testing at the INSACOG laboratory network. Meanwhile, the passenger will be taken to a separate isolation facility and will be treated as per the protocol laid down by the health ministry.> A subsection (5 percent of the total flight passengers) shall undergo post-arrival testing at random at the airport on arrival.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/rtpcr-home-quarantine-india-revises-rules-for-int-l-arrivals-over-omicron-concerns-101638332784369.html
01-12-2021||India||Two terrorists killed during encounter in Kashmir's Pulwama||At least two terrorists were killed during an encounter that broke out with security forces in Jammu & Kashmir's Pulwama district on Wednesday morning, police officials familiar with the development said.Inspector general of police in Kashmir, Vijay Kumar, was quoted as saying by news agency ANI that a top JeM commander, Yasir Parray, and a foreign terrorist, identified as Furqan, were among those killed during the gunbattle that began in early hours at Qasba Yar area of Pulwama.Kumar said Parray was an IED expert and was allegedly involved in several terrorism-related activities in the Union territory. #PulwamaEncounterUpdate: 02 #terrorists killed. Identification & affliation being ascertained. #Search going on. Further details shall follow. @JmuKmrPolice https://t.co/RCe0s345AfA search operation was underway.Last month, the Central Reserve Police Force nabbed a Lashkar-e-Taiba terrorist, Sarwir Ahmed Mir, from Pulwama's Mirgund area following a search operation and seized explosives from him.The terror-related incidents have seen a significant surge in the Valley in the past few months. On Tuesday, Union minister of state for home affiars Nityanand Rai told the Lok Sabha that at least 40 civilians have been killed and 72 sustained injuries in terror-related incidents in Jammu & Kashmir till November 15 this year. During the similar period, as many as 35 security personnel were also killed and 86 injured.(The is a developing story and will be updated with further details)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/two-terrorists-killed-during-encounter-in-kashmir-s-pulwama-101638331705456.html
01-12-2021||India||Stalled bills to be tabled in Parliament today||The Assisted Reproductive Technology (Regulations) Bill has been rescheduled for introduction in Parliament on Wednesday after Union health minister Mansukh Mandaviya was unable to table it on Monday and Tuesday.The Assisted Reproductive Technology (Regulations) Bill has been rescheduled for introduction in Parliament on Wednesday after Union health minister Mansukh Mandaviya was unable to table it on Monday and Tuesday.|#+|The proposed law seeks to regulate assisted reproductive technology services. It was on the agenda on the first day of the Winter Session on Monday, but could not be presented amid Opposition protests. The Opposition parties on Tuesday staged a walkout from both Houses of Parliament in protest against the suspension of 12 lawmakers from the Rajya Sabha.Also Read | Parliament winter session: Suspended MPs should apologise, says GoyalThe Dam Safety Bill has also been on the agenda since Monday but could be discussed in the Rajya Sabha. It seeks to provide for the surveillance, inspection, operation, and maintenance of dams across the country. The bill was passed in Lok Sabha in 2019 and is still pending in Rajya Sabha.Reports of committees including those related to information technology, science, and climate change are expected to be tabled in Parliament on Wednesday. Nineteen ministries are scheduled to take up questions.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/stalled-bills-to-be-tabled-in-parliament-today-101638331839095.html
01-12-2021||India||Trespassers cannot object to acceptance of nomination: HC||Trespassers cannot object to the acceptance of nomination of a candidate at the time of scrutiny of nominations, the Bombay high court’s Nagpur bench said on Monday. The court said this while dismissing Akola councillor Parag Kamble’s plea questioning the acceptance of nomination of Bharatiya Janata Party’s Vasant Khandelwal for Maharashtra legislative council.“If the law has given no right to a person like the petitioner to attend the scrutiny of nomination forms, there would be no question of letting such person inside the scrutiny room and then allowing him to raise an objection,” said a division bench of justices Sunil Shukre and Anil Pansare. “If such unauthorised persons or the trespassers are allowed in, sanctity and purity of election process may possibly be endangered.”The bench cited the Representation of People Act and Election Manual and added only the candidate, election agent, proposer, and one more person is allowed to enter the scrutiny room when nomination forms of candidates are scrutinised.Also Read | Assam lynching: Main accused killed in road accident while trying to flee copsThe court said Kamble was not one such authorised person to enter the scrutiny room and he managed to get entry inside the scrutiny room and raised objection on the sheer strength of his heckling.“The starting point of the petitioner (his entry in the scrutiny room itself) in the whole process of making an exception to acceptance of nomination form of respondent No 3 was thus founded upon a violation of law,” said the bench and accepted the preliminary objection to the petition raised on behalf of Khandelwal that Kamble had no authority to raise an objection to his nomination and file the petition.Kamble moved the high court contending that the acceptance of Khandelwal’s nomination form was based upon suppression of facts.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/trespassers-cannot-object-to-acceptance-of-nomination-hc-101638331359073.html
01-12-2021||India||40 million fully vaccinated against Covid-19 in Maharashtra; cases dip by 57.51%||Maharashtra has fully vaccinated 40 million residents out of the state’s 91.44 million eligible population by administering 114,292,368 doses of anti Covid-19 vaccines including double doses to around 40,004,550 residents by Tuesday evening, authorities said. Maharashtra is currently only behind Uttar Pradesh (UP) which has fully vaccinated 50,320,917 residents till Tuesday, as per official data. Maharashtra achieved full vaccination of 10 million residents on July 26 and touched the 20 million mark in less than two months’ time on September 17 and the 30 million target was achieved on October 26. The state has also reported a drop in the number of Covid-19 cases by 57.51 % with 25,588 infections recorded in November, compared to 60,222 in October. On Tuesday, Maharashtra recorded 678 Covid-19 cases and 35 related deaths taking the state’s tally of coronavirus infections to 6,635,658 and the death toll to 140,997. Mumbai saw 180 new cases with two deaths. 91,277 tests to detect Covid-19 were done on Tuesday across the state, which currently has a positivity rate of 0.74%. Also Watch | Omicron scare: India’s new rules for international travellers starting December There are currently 7,555 active Covid patients across the state including 2,029 patients in Mumbai, followed by 1,912 and 1,085 cases in Pune and Thane respectively. State surveillance officer Dr Pradeep Awate said, “We are in control of the virus.” He, however, added that the emergence of the Omicron variant means there is need to take fresh guard. “We are not letting our guards down,” he added. Dr Satyendra Nath Mehra, medical director at Masina Hospital at Byculla, Mumbai, said, “Our immunisation programme has played a major role in fighting the virus. Despite crowding during the festivals, we did not witness any surge in cases, as residents may have gradually developed herd immunity.” 
01-12-2021||India||Assam lynching: Main accused killed in road accident while trying to flee cops||The main accused in the lynching of a student leader in Assam was killed on Tuesday night in a road accident. Niraj Das alias ‘Kola Lora’, died while in a bid to escape police custody.Das reportedly jumped out of the police car in which he was being transported and was hit by another police vehicle in the back while attempting to flee. He later succumbed to his injuries.Local reports said three police personnel were also injured in the incident.As many as 13 people have been arrested so far in connection with the lynching of the All Assam Students' Union (AASU) leader Animesh Bhuyan in which two others were injured on Monday.Twelve of the accused arrested in the case were manhandled by an angry crowd on Tuesday in front of a local court, where they were to be presented. All the accused were arrested within hours as the Jorhat Bar Association decided not to fight for any of the accused persons during the trial.Meanwhile, the main culprit, Neeraj Das, arrested on Tuesday morning, was to be produced before the court on Wednesday. According to officials, he was a known criminal with past record of drug trafficking.A huge number of people had gathered outside the chief judicial magistrate's court, shouting slogans and demanding justice for the 28-year-old AASU leader killed in the gruesome act on Monday. The crowd kept demanding that the police hand over the accused to them, instead of presenting them before the court.Bhuyan was beaten to death while two others accompanying him were seriously injured by a group of people following a heated argument over an accident in Jorhat city on Monday.Scores of onlookers witnessed the act but did nothing to stop it and were instead busy filming the incident on their mobile phones.Bhuyan was declared dead when taken to the hospital. He was the education secretary of Brahmaputra Regional Committee of AASU's Golaghat district unit.One of his companions was a local reporter, Mridusmanta Baruah, and the other was Pranay Dutta, both AASU members.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/assam-lynching-main-accused-killed-in-road-accident-while-trying-to-flee-cops-101638327587640.html
01-12-2021||India||Two intense systems likely to bring widespread rain and thunderstorms||Two intense weather systems are likely to bring widespread rain to west, northwest and parts of the east coast during the next 5 days according to India Meteorological Department. A low pressure area is likely to form over east central Arabian sea off Maharashtra coast on Wednesday even as a trough (line of low pressure) at mean sea level is running from the cyclonic circulation over Arabian Sea to the north Maharashtra coast. A western disturbance is lying as a trough which is likely to affect the Western Himalayan region and northwestern plains on Thursday and Friday. Under the influence of these systems, widespread rain/thunderstorm with isolated heavy to very heavy rainfall, accompanied with thunderstorms with lightning at isolated places, is likely over Gujarat, north Madhya Maharashtra and north Konkan on December 1 and isolated heavy rainfall is likely over Gujarat region and north Madhya Maharashtra on December 2. Isolated to scattered rainfall accompanied with thunderstorm/lightning is likely over West Madhya Pradesh, East Rajasthan, Haryana, West Uttar Pradesh on Thursday and Friday with maximum activity on Thursday, the IMD bulletin said. Also Read | Cyclone Jawad may form on Friday: IMDScattered to fairly widespread rainfall/snowfall accompanied with isolated thunderstorm/lightning is likely over Uttarakhand and Himachal Pradesh during Thursday and Friday with maximum activity on Thursday. A low pressure area is lying over central parts of Andaman Sea & neighbourhood. It is likely to move west-northwestwards and concentrate into a depression over south east & adjoining east-central Bay of Bengal on Thursday and intensify into a cyclonic storm, Jawad, over central parts of the Bay of Bengal during the subsequent 24 hours. Subsequently, it is likely to move northwestwards, intensify further and reach near north Andhra Pradesh – Odisha coasts around December 4 morning. Under its influence, very heavy and widespread rainfall is likely over parts of Odisha, north Andhra Pradesh and parts of West Bengal on December 4 and 5||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/two-intense-systems-likely-to-bring-widespread-rain-and-thunderstorms-101638329259081.html
01-12-2021||India||Omicron: New curbs in place for arrivals from ‘at-risk’ nations at Delhi, Mumbai airports||Several airports across the country, including the ones in Delhi and Mumbai, have imposed new restrictions in the wake of the Union government’s new travel rules for international passengers that is set to come into effect from Wednesday due to the threat from the new Omicron Covid-19 variant.On Tuesday, Union health secretary Rajesh Bhushan held a meeting with states and Union territories, during which he asked them to enhance testing against Covid-19 and improve the testing infrastructure. States were also asked to test international passengers arriving from ‘at risk’ countries on their day of arrival and also send samples of people found positive to designated labs for genome sequencing.Currently, European nations, including the UK, South Africa, Brazil, Botswana, China, Mauritius, New Zealand, Zimbabwe, Singapore, Hong Kong and Israel have been listed as ‘at risk’ countries by the Union health ministry.Here are some of the arrangements made at Delhi and Mumbai international airports in view of the new guidelines.Also read | From December, India imposes new rules for international arrivals over omicron scareDelhiThe Delhi Disaster Management Authority (DDMA) has issued an order regarding international passengers arriving at the airport stating that the Centre’s new guidelines would have to be strictly followed.Airlines are expected to inform passengers from ‘at risk’ countries that they would be tested upon arrival in Delhi. They would also be subjected to mandatory quarantine, on testing positive, and their samples would be collected for genome sequencing.If negative, the passengers would be sent for home quarantine for a week and on the eighth day, they would again be tested. On testing negative again, they would be advised self monitoring for another week. However, such restrictions do not apply to those arriving from other countries. Also, children below five year of age are exempted, except if found symptomatic.A dedicated ward of 40 beds has been created in the Lok Nayak Jaiprakash Hospital for accommodating passengers testing positive.MumbaiThe Chhatrapati Shivaji Maharaj International Airport (CSMIA) in Mumbai on Tuesday said that passengers arriving from the ‘at risk’ countries would be segregated from those arriving from other nations.Adequate RT-PCR testing facilities for international arrivals in the form of 48 registration counters and 40 sampling booths have been set up, an ANI report said. It also said that these facilities would be ramped up, if the need arises.To facilitate testing of passengers with connecting flights in Mumbai with shorter time durations, 30 Rapid PCR machines have also been made available.A large sitting area for arriving passengers, QR codes at various locations at the arrival corridor and amenities like washrooms, food and beverages have also been arranged, the CSMIA said.Those arriving from ‘at risk’ countries would be subjected to a seven-day institutional quarantine and would be tested for Covid-19 on the second, fourth and seventh days.(With agency inputs)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/omicron-new-curbs-in-place-for-arrivals-from-at-risk-nations-at-delhi-mumbai-airports-101638329085240.html
01-12-2021||India||News updates from HT: ‘Heavy rain’ alert in parts of Mumbai, Thane today and all the latest news||Here are today-’s top news, analysis and opinion. Know all about the latest news and other news updates from Hindustan Times.Parts of Mumbai, Thane may see heavy rain today, cyclone alert for Odisha on SaturdayParts of Mumbai, Thane and Palghar may see heavy rainfall on Wednesday due to the likely formation of a low pressure area over east central Arabian Sea off Maharashtra coast and a western disturbance. Read moreOutreach in mind, Mamata to meet Sharad Pawar in Mumbai todayWest Bengal chief minister Mamata Banerjee is scheduled to meet senior politician and Nationalist Congress Party (NCP) supremo Sharad Pawar at his residence in Mumbai on Wednesday. Read moreUP: Case filed against Mark Zuckerberg over ‘defamatory’ post against Akhilesh, dropped laterFacebook founder and chief executive officer (CEO) Mark Zuckerberg along with 49 others have been named in a case related to an alleged defamatory post against Samajwadi Party's Akhilesh Yadav. However, police later dropped Zuckerberg's name from the case, according to reports. Read moreIPL 2022 Retention: Full list of players retained by all 8 franchisesA total of 27 players were retained by their respective franchises ahead of the Indian Premier League mega auctions, which will see ten teams battle it out between themselves to rope in the finest cricketing talents. Read moreWhen Priyanka Chopra cried inconsolably during Jai Gangaajal shoot, repeatedly apologised to Manav Kaul. WatchActor Priyanka Chopra started crying and was inconsolable during the shoot of Jai Gangaajal after she accidentally kicked co-star Manav Kaul. In an old interview, Manav had said that he had to stop the shoot for an hour and console Priyanka. Read morePeople with A, B blood groups and Rh+ more vulnerable to Covid-19, says new studyA new study suggests that people with blood group A, B and those with Rh factor (Rhesus factor) positive are more "susceptible to Covid-19 infection" compared to those having O or AB group and Rh negative. Read more||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/news-updates-from-ht-heavy-rain-alert-in-parts-of-mumbai-thane-today-and-all-the-latest-news-101638328539029.html
01-12-2021||NA||Parliament Highlights: Lok Sabha adjourned till tomorrow||Din continued to prevail on the third day of the Parliament Winter Session as opposition parties' demand for revocation of the suspension of 12 Rajya Sabha MPs was rejected by chairman Venkaiah Naidu yet again.While the Opposition raised slogans of “we want justice” in Lok Sabha, the suspended lawmakers sat on dharna in front of the Gandhi statue inside the Parliament premises.After a chaotic beginning to the Winter Session of Parliament on Monday, the stalemate in the Rajya Sabha was expected to end as opposition parties had said they would maintain House order and take part in the proceedings on Wednesday.On Monday, 12 lawmakers were suspended for the remainder of Parliament winter session under Rule 256 for their “unruly and violent behaviour” on the last day of the monsoon session on August 11. The leaders included six from Congress, two each from TMC and Shiv Sena and one each from CPM and CPI. This was the biggest such action in the history of the Upper House.Follow all the updates here:Lok Sabha adjourned till tomorrow, 2nd DecemberThe Lok Sabha has been adjourned till tomorrow (December 2). Earlier in the day, the Rajya Sabha was adjourned amid continued pandemonium owing to the suspension of 12 opposition MPs.LS passes the Assisted Reproductive Technology (Regulation) BillLok Sabha on Wednesday passed the Assisted Reproductive Technology (Regulation) Bill, which proposes setting up of a national registry and registration authority for clinics and medical professionals serving in the industry, PTI reported. The bill was tabled by Union health minister Mansukh Mandaviya.Lok Sabha BJP MP urges govt to implement Uniform Civil CodeBJP member Nishikant Dubey urged the Centre on Wednesday to bring a law soon to implement a Uniform Civil Code in the country.Raising the issue in the Zero Hour in the Lok Sabha, Dubey said the Allahabad High Court had last month asked the Centre to consider setting up a panel for implementing the mandate of Article 44 of the Constitution, which speaks about a Uniform Civil Code for the citizens throughout the territory of India."Even after 75 years of Independence, we have not been able to bring in a Uniform Civil Code. I urge the government to soon bring a law to implement a Uniform Civil Code," he said. (PTI)Rajya Sabha adjourned till Thursday amid ruckus in ParliamentRajya Sabha adjourned for the day as the Opposition continued ruckus over the suspension of 12 Opposition members of the House.'This is insult': Mallickarjun Kharge on govt saying ‘no record’ on farmers' deaths“This is farmers' insult. More than 700 farmers lost their lives during protests against 3 farm laws. How can Centre say that they don't have any record of it?” says Leader of Opposition Rajya Sabha, Mallikarjun Kharge."If government doesn't have a record of 700 people then how they had collected data of lakhs of people during pandemic. Over 50 lakh people lost their lives due to Covid-19 in the last 2 years but according to govt, only 4 lakh people died due to the virus," he added. Read more.Rajya Sabha adjourned till 3pmRajya Sabha proceedings adjourned till 3pm following sloganeering by Opposition MPs.Dam Safety Bill to be tabled in Rajya Sabha, LS to discuss reproductive tech regulation billThe Dam Safety Bill will be tabled in Rajya Sabha after it resumes at 2pm. Meanwhile, Lok Sabha is expected to discuss the Assisted Reproductive Technology (Regulation) Bill, 2020. ₹1 lakh ex-gratia paid to next of kin of J&K civilians: MoS HomeAn ex-gratia amount of ₹1 lakh is paid to the Next of the Kins of civilians killed in terrorism-related violence under the existing scheme of J&K govt. In addition, ₹5 lakhs is given under a separate Central scheme, says MoS Home Nityanand Rai in Rajya Sabha.Infiltration, terrorist attacks fell significantly in J&K, says MHAIn a written reply to Rajya Sabha, Union ministry of home affairs said that the incidents of infiltration and terrorist attacks have decreased significantly since 2018 in Jammu and Kashmir, reports ANI. Suspended MPs should express remorse: Union minister Pralhad Joshi“If the 12 suspended members of Rajya Sabha want to come to the House, then they should express remorse. Let them sit on dharna...I pray Mahatma Gandhi gives them wisdom," said Union Minister Pralhad Joshi.Parliament proceedings resumeLok Sabha and Rajya Sabha proceedings have resumed after being adjourned till noon.‘No record on farmers’ death during protests: Govt in Parliament"The Ministry of Agriculture and Farmer's Welfare has no record in the matter and hence the question does not arise," says government in Parliament when asked whether it proposes to provide financial assistance to the kin of farmers who died during the agitation'.Lok Sabha, Rajya Sabha adjourned till noon amid sloganeering by OppositionLok Sabha adjourned till 12 noon following uproar by Opposition MPs. Rajya Sabha has also been adjourned till 12pm.Will continue dharna till we get justice: TMC MPAt the protest site in front of Gandhi statue, TMC MP Dola Sen says, “The suspension of MPs shows the arrogance of those in the majority. When they were in opposition they also used to disrupt Parliament proceedings. We will continue our 'dharna till the time we don't get justice.”Congress MP Rahul Gandhi was among opposition MPs protesting against the suspension of 12 opposition members of Rajya Sabha.Congress, DMK MPs walk out from Lok SabhaCongress and DMK MPs stage walkout from Lok Sabha amid Question Hour.Amid sloganeering, Congress' Adhir Ranjan Choudhary raise issue of farmers' deathLeader of Congress Party in Lok Sabha Adhir Ranjan Chowdhury raises the issue of death of farmers during farm laws protest in Lok Sabha. Opposition MPs raise slogans of "We want justice" during the Question Hour in the House.Demanding revocation of suspension of 12 MPs: LoP Rajya Sabha Mallickarjun Kharge“We are demanding the revocation of suspension of 12 Opposition members of the Rajya Sabha. We will hold a meeting and decide the future course of action,” said Leader of Opposition Rajya Sabha, Mallikarjun Kharge at the Parliament.Cabinet meet at 1pm in Parliament todayMeeting of Union Cabinet scheduled to be held at 1320 hours in Parliament today. Cabinet Committee on Economic Affairs (CCEA) will meet ahead of it at 1310 hours.Congress MP Manish Tewari gives adjournment notice in Lok SabhaCongress MP Manish Tewari gives adjournment motion notice in Lok Sabha on "high rate of inflation, price hike of LPG cylinders".Congress MP Manickram Tagore gives adjournment notice in Lok SabhaCongress MP Manickam Tagore gives adjournment motion notice in Lok Sabha to "discuss the actual number of Covid-19 deaths and direct the Govt to ensure that the poor get ₹4 lakhs each."Congress leader in RS gives suspension of business notice over price rise of essential goodsCongress Rajya Sabha MP Shaktisinh Gohil has given a suspension of business notice in the House over the issue of 'price rise of essential commodities like food grains, edible oils, petrol-diesel and LPG cooking gas'.Health minister to move reproductive technology regulation bill in Lok SabhaHealth minister Mansukh Mandaviya will move the Assisted Reproductive Technology (Regulation) Bill, 2020 in Lok Sabha today. The Bill is for regulation and supervision of assisted reproductive technology clinics, prevention of misuse, safe and ethical practice of reproductive technology services.Centre demands apology from 12 suspended Rajya Sabha MPsLeader of the House in Rajya Sabha Piyush Goyal defended the Chair's decision to suspend the Opposition members and condemned the behaviour of the members during the Monsoon session."It is regrettable that the Leader of Opposition lowered the dignity of the House by making allegations regarding the suspension of 12 MPs." he said, demanding that the suspended MPs apologise.12 suspended Rajya Sabha MPs to sit in dharna at Gandhi statueThe 12 suspended MPs from the Rajya Sabha have decided to sit on a protest in front of Gandhi statue on Parliament premises, reportedly at 10am. Leaders of various Opposition parties will also be joining the protests. Congress party has asked all the MPs from Rajya Sabha and Lok Sabha to be there as a mark of solidarity for them.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/parliament-winter-session-2021-live-updates-101638325672985.html
01-12-2021||India||UP: Case filed against Mark Zuckerberg over ‘defamatory’ post against Akhilesh, dropped later||Facebook founder and chief executive officer (CEO) Mark Zuckerberg along with 49 others have been named in a case related to an alleged defamatory post against Samajwadi Party's Akhilesh Yadav. However, police later dropped Zuckerberg's name from the case during the course of the investigation, a PTI report said.The case was registered on the order of a court in the Kannauj district of UP. On Monday, chief judicial magistrate Dharamveer Singh in Kannauj district directed the police to lodge the case on the complaint of one Amit Kumar, a resident of Sarahati village.In his application, Kumar had complained that a page on the social media website Facebook, is attempting to tarnish the image of Yadav. He mentioned the page's name as 'Bua Babua.'The term "Bua Babua" was coined when Bahujan Samaj Party (BSP) chief Mayawati and Akhilesh Yadav had entered into an alliance during the parliamentary election in 2019.Following the court order, a case was registered at Thatia police station, the report said citing SHO Prayag Narayan Bajpayee. Other people named in the case include an administrator of the (Facebook) page.Kumar said an application was sent to the superintendent of police through a registered post on May 25, but no action was taken, following which he moved the court and urged that a case be registered.Large social media companies such as Facebook, Twitter, YouTube and WhatsApp lost legal protection for the user content posted on their platforms in May this year after the government in the country enacted the new Information Technology Act.According to the new ACt, the companies can be prosecuted for the user-generated content and stands answerable to India civil and criminal laws just like any other citizen of the country.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/up-case-filed-against-mark-zuckerberg-over-defamatory-post-against-akhilesh-dropped-later-101638324113573.html
01-12-2021||India||Parts of Mumbai, Thane may see heavy rain today, cyclone alert for Odisha on Saturday||Parts of Mumbai, Thane and Palghar may see heavy rainfall on Wednesday due to the likely formation of a low pressure area over east central Arabian Sea off Maharashtra coast and a western disturbance.The India Meteorological Department (IMD) said under the influence of the systems fairly widespread rain/thunderstorm with isolated heavy to very heavy rainfall accompanied with thunderstorms and lightning are likely over Gujarat, north central Maharashtra and north Konkan region Wednesday and Thursday.According to the IMD, parts of Maharashtra, including Mumbai and Thane, are very likely to witness thunderstorm accompanied with lightning/gusty winds and heavy rain at isolated places. West Madhya Pradesh, east Rajasthan, Haryana, west Uttar Pradesh may also see Isolated to scattered rainfall accompanied with thunderstorm/lightning is likely over during December 1-2 with maximum activity on Thursday.Cyclone alertThe IMD has also sounded an alert of a possible cyclone hitting the coastal areas of Odisha on Saturday with the Regional Meteorological Centre urging fishermen out in the sea to return by December 2 morning. The is because of a low pressure area that is likely to form over south Andaman Sea and move west-northwestwards before concentrating into a depression over South east and adjoining east central Bay of Bengal. The Odisha government has instructed the district collectors to remain prepared to face any eventuality.In West Bengal fishermen have been warned not to venture into the sea from December 3 to 5. In wake of the IMD’s forecast of heavy to very heavy rainfall due to the possible cyclone, Odisha special relief commissioner PK Jena has asked district collectors to monitor the situation closely.“Fishermen are advised not to venture into the southeast and adjoining east central Bay of Bengal on December 2 and 3, west central and adjoining northwest BoB and along and off north Andhra Pradesh-Odisha-West Bengal coast from December 3 to December 5,” director of the Regional Meteorological Centre, Bhubaneswar, HR Biswas, said.Under its influence, isolated heavy to very heavy rainfall is also likely over Andaman and Nicobar Islands till Wednesday.(With inputs from agencies)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/parts-of-mumbai-thane-may-see-heavy-rain-today-cyclone-alert-for-odisha-101638320728939.html
01-12-2021||NA||Highlights: Brazil confirms 3rd Omicron case, reports AP||Welcome to hindustantimes.com live updates platform where you can find breaking news from India and across the world. Find fast updates about the latest news as it breaks.Missed an important news update? Worried about what is happening in the world of finance and how it will impact you? Want to know about the latest update on Covid-19? Don't worry, we have you covered.Follow all the updates here:Brazil confirms 3rd Omicron case, reports APHealth officials on Wednesday confirmed Brazil's third case of the Omicron coronavirus variant as the government examined possible new measures to contain the virus, reported news agency AP.Expecting number of countries reporting Omicron variant to grow: WHO chiefThe emergence of the Omicron variant has understandably captured global attention. At least 23 countries from five of six WHO regions have now reported cases of Omicron, and we expect that number to grow: WHO chief Tedros Adhanom GhebreyesuAmit Shah welcomes Manjinder Singh Sirsa to BJP“I welcome Manjinder Singh Sirsa to BJP. Placing his trust in the BJP's resolve for the welfare of the Sikh community, under the leadership of PM Narendra Modi, he joined the party. I believe that his joining will further strengthen this resolve,” news agency ANI quoted Union home minister Amit Shah as saying.World War 2-era bomb explodes in Munich injuring 3, reports APA World War II bomb exploded at a construction site next to a busy railway line in Munich on Wednesday, injuring three people, one of them seriously, AP quoted German police as saying.Chennai airport slashes RT-PCR test from ₹900 to ₹700The Chennai airport on Wednesday slashed RT-PCR test price from ₹900 to ₹700 amid Omicron Covid-19 variant scare. Read moreAct to repeal farm laws may be called 'Farm Laws Repeal Act, 2021, Centre says#FarmLaws | Act may be called Farm Laws Repeal Act, 2021. Farmers (Empowerment&Protection) Agreement on Price Assurance&Farm Services Act, 2020, Farmers' Produce Trade&Commerce (Promotion & Facilitation) Act, 2020 & Essential Commodities (Amendment) Act, 2020 are hereby repealed. pic.twitter.com/8JHvEs34bRThe Act to repeal farm laws may be called 'Farm Laws Repeal Act, 2021, the Centre said on Wednesday.Time to 'think about mandatory vaccination', says EU chiefIt is time for the European Union to "think about mandatory vaccination" against Covid, AFP quoted European Commission chief Ursula von der Leyen as saying on Wednesday. Akali Dal's Manjinder Singh Sirsa joins BJP ahead of Punjab electionsShiromani Akali Dal leader and Delhi Sikh Gurdwara Management Committee president Manjinder Singh Sirsa on Wednesday joined the BJP in the presence of Union ministers Dharmendra Pradhan and Gajendra Singh Shekhawat, reported news agency ANI.Nigeria detects first case of omicron variant from October, reports APNigeria has detected its first case of the omicron coronavirus variant in a sample it collected in October, news agency AP quoted the country’s national public health institute as saying on Wednesday.Delhi Police summons Rajasthan CM's officer on special duty for interrogation in phone tapping case, reports PTIThe Delhi Police has summoned Rajasthan CM's officer on special duty for interrogation in phone tapping case, reported news agency PTI.Saudi Arabia confirms first case of Omicron in GulfSaudi Arabia has recorded the Gulf's first confirmed case of the Omicron variant of the coronavirus in a citizen returning from North Africa, a health ministry official said Wednesday. Read moreDecision on date of resumption of international flights in due course: DGCAThe Directorate General of Civil Aviation on Wednesday said it will notify its decision regarding the date of resumption of scheduled commercial international airline services to/from India in due course. It also said that the situation is being closely-watched in view of emergence of new Covid-19 variant.US and Russian foreign ministers to hold talks on Ukraine, reports AFP citing officialsUS and Russian foreign ministers to hold talks on Ukraine, reports AFP citing officials.If all regional parties come together..: Mamata's pitch to defeat BJP“If all regional parties come together, then it will be easy to defeat the Bharatiya Janata Party,” news agency ANI quoted West Bengal chief minister Mamata Banerjee as saying on Wednesday, during an interaction with civil society members in Mumbai.15 new Covid-19 cases found in 2 nursing colleges in Tumkur, KarnatakaIn Karnataka's Tumkur district, 15 new Covid-19 cases were detected in two nursing colleges, reports ANI citing the district health officer.Depression likely to form on Dec 2, to develop into cyclone, reach AP-Odisha coast on Dec 4: IMD Pre Cyclone watch for North Andhra Pradesh-Odisha coast. A Depression is likely to form by tomorrow. It is likely to intensify into a Cyclonic storm around 3rd Dec. To move northwestwards and reach north Andhra Pradesh-Odisha coast around 4th Dec morning.The India Meteorological Department has issued a pre-cyclone alert for North Andhra Pradesh and Odisha coast, in which it said that a depression is likely to form on Thursday and is expected to intensify into a cyclonic storm on December 3. It will move further northwest and reach Andhra Pradesh - Odisha coast around December 4 morning.Omicron: Nigeria confirms first caseNigeria, Africa's most populous country, confirmed its first identified case of the Omicron Covid-19 variant.Omicron alert: Ranchi airport begins Covid-19 testing of all passengersIn view of the Omicron variant, the Ranchi airport in Jharkhand has begun testing all arriving passengers for Covid-19, reports ANI. Delhi govt slashes VAT to 19.40%, petrol gets cheaper by ₹8 per litreDelhi government slashed the VAT on petrol from 30% to 19.40% that would reduce petrol prices by ₹8 per litre, reports ANI. The new rates would come in to effect from midnight today.PM Modi to visit Dehradun, Uttarakhand, on Dec 4, inaugurate projects worth ₹18,000 crorePM Narendra Modi is set to visit Dehradun, Uttarakhand and lay foundation stone for multiple projects worth around ₹18,000 on December 4, reports ANI citing his office. The Delhi-Dehradun Economic Corridor to be built at a cost of around ₹8300 crore is among the list of projects. Anil Deshmukh, Sachin Vaze appear before commission to probe corruption allegationsFormer Maharashtra home minister Anil Deshmukh and dismissed police officer Sachin Vaze appeared before the Chandiwal Commission, formed to probe corruption allegations made by former Mumbai commissioner Param Bir Singh, reports ANI. PM Modi wishes people of Nagaland on Statehood DayOn the special occasion of Nagaland’s Statehood Day, greetings to the wonderful people of the state. Naga culture personifies valour and humane values. The people of Nagaland are making rich contributions to India’s growth. I pray for Nagaland’s progress in the years to come. pic.twitter.com/wR2l9DppdOPrime Minister Narendra Modi wished the people of Nagaland on Statehood Day. “On the special occasion of Nagaland’s Statehood Day, greetings to the wonderful people of the state. Naga culture personifies valour and humane values. The people of Nagaland are making rich contributions to India’s growth. I pray for Nagaland’s progress in the years to come,” he tweeted.Plea in SC seeks future censoring on Kangana Ranaut's social media postA plea has been filed in the Supreme Court against actor Kangana Ranaut that sought future censoring of all social media posts by the actor in order to maintain law and order in the country, reports ANI.India reports 8,954 new Covid-19 cases, 267 deaths in 24 hours, active cases fall below 100,000India reports 8,954 new Covid-19 cases and 267 deaths in the last 24 hours. Active caseload fell by 1,520 cases, went below the 100,000-mark and stood at 99,023.Pulwama encounter: 2 terrorists killed, identification being ascertained, say police#PulwamaEncounterUpdate: 02 #terrorists killed. Identification & affliation being ascertained. #Search going on. Further details shall follow. @JmuKmrPolice https://t.co/RCe0s345AfKashmir police said that two terrorists were killed during the encounter in Qasbayar area of Pulwama, Kashmir. The forces are trying to ascertain the identities of the militants. Delhi air quality in ‘very poor’ category, AQI recorded at 362The air quality index (AQI) in Delhi was recorded at at 362 (overall) and it remained in the 'very poor' category, according to the System of Air Quality and Weather Forecasting And Research, reports ANI. ‘Work towards ensuring people affected live without discrimination, stigma’: Mandaviya on World Aids Day 2021  On #WorldAIDSDay, let us all pledge to work towards ensuring that people infected with & affected by HIV/AIDS lead a normal life sans discrimination and social stigma. pic.twitter.com/2zJuDRW5DN“On #WorldAIDSDay, let us all pledge to work towards ensuring that people infected with & affected by HIV/AIDS lead a normal life sans discrimination and social stigma,” Union health minister Mansukh Mandaviya tweeted.Bengal CM to meet Sharad Pawar in Mumbai today West Bengal chief minister Mamata Banerjee, currently on a visit to Mumbai, is scheduled to meet Nationalist Congress Party leader Sharad Pawar today.70-year-old priest killed by suspected thieves in Jalore, RajasthanIn Jalore, Rajasthan, a 70-year-old priest was beaten to death inside his hut near a temple by suspected thieves on Monday night, reports ANI citing the police."Postmortem was conducted and the body handed over to his family. Police teams have been formed to nab the accused," DSP (Bhinmal) Shankar Lal said.Encounter breaks out between police, militants in Pulwama, Kashmir#Encounter has started at #Qasbayar area of #Pulwama. Police and security forces are on the job. Further details shall follow. @JmuKmrPoliceAn encounter broke out between the police, security forces and militants in Qasbayar area of Pulwama, Kashmir, during the early hours today, the police said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/breaking-news-updates-december-1-2021-101638319784564.html
01-12-2021||India||Rahul Gandhi’s group photo signals a new Goa alliance. It also hurts the TMC||PANAJI: Signalling the finalisation of an arrangement between the Congress and the Goa Forward Party, Goa Forward supremo Vijai Sardesai and an independent lawmaker who earlier pledged his support to Mamata Banerjee’s Trinamool Congress (TMC) met Congress leader Rahul Gandhi in New Delhi on Tuesday and posted a group photograph on social media. His party captioned it “Team Goa”While no formal announcement of any pre-poll alliance was made, Congress leader and state in-charge Dinesh Gundu Rao said that Sardesai and his fellow MLA Vinod Paliencar met Rahul Gandhi and “expressed their complete support to take on the corrupt and inept BJP Goa government in the ensuing assembly elections.”Also present at the meeting was independent MLA Prasad Gaonkar who barely a few weeks ago expressed his support to the Trinamool Congress and said he was joining the cause with them, but will formally join the party later. It appears he may have now abandoned that mission and has instead pledged support to the Congress.Sardesai didn’t mention the word ‘alliance’ in his statement after meeting Rahul Gandhi. “Met Shri @RahulGandhi along with my colleagues @prasadgaonkr13 (Independent MLA Prasad Gaonkar) and @vinod_palyekar. We agreed to fight resolutely, wholeheartedly and unitedly on behalf of the people of #Goa to end the utterly corrupt, incompetent and undemocratic reign of @BJP4Goa,” Sardesai tweeted along with a photo of the group jointly raising their hands together as a symbol of solidarity.“Continuance of Goa under @BJP4Goa rule is an impossibility! Met with Shri @RahulGandhi. Proud to be working for the 2nd liberation of #Goa with the great-grandson of the person who enabled the 1st! The curse of the communal and anti-Goan @DrPramodPSawant govt will be blown away!” he also said.Sardesai has for long been seeking an alliance with the Congress calling for a united ‘Team Goa’ to take on the BJP. Sardesai also met West Bengal chief minister and TMC supremo Mamata Banerjee during her visit to Goa in October and reiterated his call for a united fight to take on the BJP.Sardesai also suggested that he was on board with the ‘new dawn’, a slogan used by the TMC.On October 12, Sardesai told the media that the time was ripe for a “new dawn in Goa” and that he was willing to make “any sacrifice” to ensure that an alliance to take on the BJP is in place before the polls. However, it quickly became apparent that he was leaning towards the Congress.Prasad Gaonkar’s brother joined the TMC on October 13, and his joining was billed as a ‘major announcement’ by the TMC.“I will join the TMC officially once my term in office comes to an end. My supporters and elected members of Panchayat are joining the TMC today,” Gaonkar said in October.The Trinamool Congress’s comeback was acerbic.“The two real culprits of [the] “Great Betrayal - 2017” are back together, again! Goa will not be betrayed once more and the backroom deals shall yield no fruit. Goans have moved on, sadly you have not,” the Goa TMC said replying to Vijai’s tweet.Vijai Sardesai, who launched the Goa Forward Party prior to the 2017 assembly elections canvassed on an anti-BJP plank prior to the elections but after the elections teamed up with the BJP on the ground that Manohar Parrikar, who was the then Union Defence Minister, was returning to the state as chief minister. Sardesai extended support on the condition that Parrikar is the chief minister. After Parrikar died and 10 Congress MLAs switched sides to the BJP, chief minister Pramod Sawant dropped Sardesai’s Goa Forward Party from his government.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/rahul-gandhi-s-group-photo-signals-a-new-goa-alliance-it-also-hurts-the-tmc-101638304654922.html
01-12-2021||India||After BJP’s spectacular win in Tripura civic polls, CPM’s Manik Sarkar hits back||AGARTALA: Two days after the declaration of the Tripura civic polls results, the leader of Opposition in the assembly and former chief minister Manik Sarkar on Tuesday alleged large-scale fraud in the elections in which the Bharatiya Janata Party won most of the 339 seats;Sarkar, a four-time chief minister, said people were turned back from polling centres and its party workers assaulted. “False voting was done. Many voters were forced to return from the polling centres without casting votes and many were physically assaulted,” he said.Of the total 334 civic body seats in the state, the BJP netted 329 seats including 112 seats uncontested. The CPM won only three seats, one seat each went to the Trinamool Congress and royal scion Pradyot Kishore Debbarma’s party TIPRA Motha.The ruling BJP got a whopping 59.01% votes in the elections held on November 25, leaving the CPM and Trinamool Congress squabbling about the second slot. The State Election Commission data indicated the CPM was a distant runner up with 18.13% of all valid votes cast for the 14 civic bodies as compared to the Trinamool Congress which ended up with a 16.39% vote share.The local body election witnessed a voter turnout of 81.54%, according to the State Election Commission.Sarkar said his party doesn’t accept the results.“Elections were not even conducted... We are not calculating about first, second or third positions. We don’t accept the poll results,” Sarkar told reporters at the CPM headquarters in Agartala.The veteran CPM leader said the poll panel was not able to ensure enforcement of the model code of conduct, accusing the BJP of triggering violence before and during polls because, he said, it knew the people won’t vote for the ruling party.“Democracy came under attack here. People are becoming discontented. Is it impossible for the Prime Minister to know what’s going on here?” he said.“Partisan fascism is increasing here. Examples of such were visible during the civic polls. These incidents can’t occur without conscious political decision, “ he said.For the future, Sarkar said the CPM party will concentrate on bringing people together over food and livelihood issues. “We will unite people to fight for livelihood issues and to exercise their democratic rights”, Sarkar said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/after-bjp-s-spectacular-win-in-tripura-civic-polls-cpm-s-manik-sarkar-hits-back-101638301594436.html
01-12-2021||India||Chase by drug peddler caused accident that killed former Miss Kerala, 2 others: Kochi top cop||A hot chase by suspected drug peddler Saiju Thankachan in his luxury car led to the accident in which three people, including former Miss Kerala Ansi Kabeer, died on November 1, Kochi police commissioner CH Nagaraju said on Tuesday.Also Read | Former Miss Kerala Ansi Kabeer and runner-up Anjana Shajan killed in car crash in Kochi“Our investigation shows the accident took place when they were forced to speed away due to the chase. After the party, he (Thankachan) made some overtures which they turned down and that led to a chase,” the police commissioner said.The special investigation team on Tuesday submitted a report in the court, saying if there were no chase, all three would have been alive. The court then turned down Thankachan’s bail plea and extended his police custody for three more days.“He is a drug addict and involved in many shady deals. We have information that he harassed many girls after late-night parties. If they come up, we will register more cases. We have registered two cases against him for criminal intimidation (Section 506), culpable homicide (section 299) and other sections (of IPC),” said the commissioner. Meanwhile, former Miss Kerala Ansi Kabeer’s uncle met the commissioner on Tuesday and filed a fresh complaint against Thankachan.During investigation, Thankachan told the police that he followed them in his Audi car to warn their driver Abdul Rehman, who was drunk, police said. Rehman, however, told the police that he drove the vehicle (Ford Aspire) at the maximum speed to evade the chasing car. He also said that Thankachan had blocked their car near Kundanoor junction and threatened them to return to the hotel, police added.Also Read | Mystery deepens in ex-Miss Kerala car crash death caseThe accident took place on November 1 at around 1.30 am when the driver was trying to save a motorbike and after hitting it slightly, it turned turtle and hit a tree on the roadside. The car was mangled in the impact and it took some time to retrieve the trapped.While former Miss Kerala Anis Kabeer and runner up Anjana Shajan died on the spot, their friend M Ashiq, an advertising professional, died after a week. Their driver Rehman escaped with injuries since he was wearing the seat belt.Ansi Kabeer, a resident of Attingal in Thiruvananthapuram, was crowned Miss Kerala in 2019. Shajan, a runner up the same year was her close friend.Police suspect Thankachan is a key player who supplied drugs in late-night parties in the port city and started a separate investigation into his financial background. They also suspect that he might have blackmailed many women after such parties. They are also planning to question hotel owner Roy Joseph, his employees and Thankachan together.Also Read | Brother of former Miss Kerala runner-up seeks probe into car crashDuring investigation, police found that employees at the hotel, where the three deceased had gone for a party earlier that night, retrieved storage disk of the party area as directed by the owner, but later threw it into backwaters. The hotel owner and five of his employees were arrested on November 16, but got bail two days after. Though divers searched the backwaters for two days, they failed to retrieve the disk.Later, Kerala director general of police Anil Kant directed the Kochi commissioner to strengthen the investigation after he reportedly got some confidential information. Reports in local media suggested that there was an argument during the party and both Kabeer and Shajan left in hurry, and a vehicle followed their car. Occupants of the Audi car told police that they escorted the ill-fated car since some of the occupants were heavily drunk.
01-12-2021||India||BJP forms 13-member body to strengthen base in Andhra||The Bharatiya Janata Party, which has gained considerable strength in Telangana in the last two years, is now focussing on neighbouring Andhra Pradesh, where the party is on a weak-footing.On Monday, the BJP national leadership announced a 13-member core committee to strengthen the party in Andhra Pradesh.The committee comprises BJP state party president Somu Veerraju, former president Kanna Laxminarayana, party national general secretary Daggubati Purandeshwari, Rajya Sabha members T G Venkatesh, C M Ramesh, Y S Chowdary and GVL Narasimha Rao, party secretary Satya Kumar, former MLC P V N Madhav and senior leaders Madhukar, Nimmaka Jayaraj, Relangai Sridevi and Chandra Mouli.Besides, there would be three special invitees in the core committee: BJP in-charge of Andhra affairs Muralidharan, co-in-charge Sunil Deodhar and Shiva Prakash.“The committee will meet once in a month to chalk out an action plan for taking up various programmes to activate the party at all levels,” a senior BJP leader familiar with the development said.The BJP, which had won four assembly seats and two Lok Sabha seats in alliance with the Telugu Desam Party in 2014 general elections, drew a complete blank in 2019, when it contested independently. It could get only 0.84 per cent of vote share, much lesser than 1.28 per cent of votes polled under NOTA.Even in the subsequent by-elections and local body elections, the BJP could not put up a good show, despite entering into an electoral alliance with Jana Sena Party floated by Tollywood hero Pawan Kalyan.However, with the TDP’s graph going downwards in the recent local body elections, the BJP has realised that it can emerge as a strong alternative to the ruling YSR Congress party in the coming days, if it takes up the cause of the people on various issues.The party leader quoted above said during the recent visit to Tirupati, Union home minister and former BJP national president Amit Shah gave a direction to the senior party leaders to take up various programmes against the Jagan Mohan Reddy government.On his instructions, the BJP leaders took part in the ongoing “padayatra” (foot march) of the farmers of Amaravati and extended support to their agitation against the formation of three capitals for Andhra Pradesh.“It is the first step in the direction of our fight against the government. In the coming days, the people are going to see a rejuvenated BJP,” the party leader said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/bjp-forms-13-member-body-to-strengthen-base-in-andhra-101638301174750.html
01-12-2021||India||Heavy rainfall continues in Chennai, over 20k in relief camps||The number of people staying in relief camps increased to 20,836 people on Tuesday as several regions including Chennai continued to be inundated across the state even though heavy rains continued in several parts of the state.In Chennai, the Cooum River embankment was strengthened by placing about 500 sand bags in view of increase in outflow. Surplus water was being let out from reservoirs and similarly, other districts like Cuddalore too released excess from waterbodies like the Veernam lake. The five key dams that cater to the drinking water needs of Chennai have either touched 100 per cent storage like Kannankottai Thervoy Kandigai or close to full level, such as the Poondi.Thoothukudi district administration issued a flood warning on Tuesday to people living along the banks of the Thamirabarani river due to sudden inflow of water from other dams of nearly 40,000-50,000 cusecs. The Mordhana and Rajathoppu reservoirs in Vellore district too have touched full levels and surplus water is being discharged.Shutters of the Mullaperiyar dam, located in Kerala but under the control of the Tamil Nadu government, were also opened as the water level reached the limit of 142 feet. The Kerala government, however, asked the Tamil Nadu government not to open the gates during early morning hours as it could cause flooding in the low lying areas of the state.In the past 24 hours, 15 districts such as Theni received heavy rainfall, said deputy director of the Regional Meteorological Centre (RMC) in Chennai, V Puviarasan.“In the next 48-hours in Chennai may see isolated moderate rainfall,” he said. The hardship continued for residents in the city as localities such as Ashok Nagar, Kodambakkam, Pattalam, Perumbakkam, Semmechery continued to be flooded. Of the 561 water-logged locations here, water has been drained in 227 and work is on to bail out water from the remaining areas using high-powered motor pumps, according to the Greater Chennai Corporation (GCC) statement, which is using more than 750 heavy duty pumps to remove water.Traffic was diverted on at least six arterial roads where draining of water was on-going and motorists continued to face choc-o-bloks. The rains have led to damage to many roads and craters covered under water often caught motorists off guard. Authorities said repair work to damaged portions of the road is going on.However, the rains have gradually reduced from Tuesday onwards after seeing excessive rainfall throughout this November which is the second highest since 2015 for a single month.According to the RMC, from October 1 up to November 30, the north east monsoon has brought 65 cm rains for Tamil Nadu and neighbouring union territory of Puducherry which is 82% above the average rainfall and Chennai received 115 cm which is 83% in excess. Although no loss of life was reported over the past days, more than 500 cattle were killed and more than 2000 huts were damaged in the rains, said a statement from the department of revenue and disaster management on Tuesday. Tamil Nadu chief minister M K Stalin on Tuesday inspected rain battered areas and distributed assistance to the affected people. The CM inspected the nearby Karappakkam lake that brimmed with flood water and discussed with officials on steps being taken to prevent flooding. Public Works Minister E V Velu inspected the collapsed portion of Palar River bridge (linking Virinjipuram and Kothamangalam regions in Vellore District) in view of heavy inflows in the river.Chennai apartment seeks 11.5 lakh compensation from GCC One of the worst affected areas due the excessive rainfall this November in Chennai has been T Nagar and one of its residential complexes have written to the Greater Chennai Corporation (GCC) seeking a relief of ₹11.5 lakh--the amount of expenditure they are incurring to repair their flat and possessions--which they say is “due to the gross negligence of the civic agencies.” The residential complex comprises 28 flats which were constructed 25 years ago. “Every monsoon, we face flooding in our premises, forcing the residents of ground floor flats to seek shelter elsewhere and the others to endure after-effects,” said the letter written by V S Jayaraman of the Shreebagh Flat Owners’ Association on November 27. The residents argue that to make their apartment habitable again they had to pump out flood water and water from wells and sumps which cost ₹1 lakh. Since the rain had not subsided until November 27, they still had to continue pumping out water and the expenditure had risen to ₹75,000. “Since the well water and the water in the Metrowater sumps get polluted due to flooding, we have to necessarily pump out the entire water incurring heavy expenditure,” they said. So for common purposes the flat had spent ₹1.75 lakh. Due to the flooding, families in the seven apartments on the ground floor had incurred an expenditure of ₹50,000 each totalling ₹3,50,000 while for those on first floor and above it was ₹30,000 each, totalling ₹6,30,000. “We therefore seek a total relief of ₹.11,55,000/- from the government/GCC. In view of the fact that we face the situation as above due to the gross negligence of the civic agencies, we seek the above relief immediately,” their letter noted.They also said that at a time when they purchased these apartments and moved in the road level was four feet below the floor level of the building. The relaying of the roads by the GCC without milling, over the years has led to the road level going up causing more flooding. “The dysfunctional storm water drains also add to the flooding,” they said. Since the main electricity switches and meters of the flats are installed at the ground floor, these too get submerged in the water, forcing them to turn off power to the premises to avoid electrocution. The power gets restored only when the water is fully receded. (With PTI INPUTS)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/heavy-rainfall-continues-in-chennai-over-20k-in-relief-camps-101638300937778.html
01-12-2021||India||Centre forms panel to revisit ₹8 lakh income limit for EWS quota||The Centre has formed a three-member committee to review the ₹8 lakh annual income limit to identify economically weaker section (EWS) for providing 10% quota in public jobs and educational institutions, the social justice and empowerment ministry said in an official memorandum. On Thursday, the Centre informed the Supreme Court that it had taken a “considered decision” to revisit the “criteria” for determining EWS to provide them reservation. The submissions came following repeated grilling by the top court over the last two months as regards to the methodology adopted by the Centre in fixing the income criteria for EWS uniformly across the country.Also Read | Will revisit ₹8 lakh annual income limit for EWS quota, Centre tells SC“In accordance with the commitment given to the Supreme Court to revisit the criteria for determining the economically weaker sections in terms of the provisions of the explanation to Article 15 of the Constitution, the Government hereby constituted a committee, ” the ministry said in the memorandum. The panel consists of former finance secretary Ajay Bhushan Pandey, Indian Council of Social Science Research (ICSSR) member secretary VK Malhotra and Sanjay Sanyal, Principal Economic Advisor to the government.Also Read | EWS quota: No mathematical precision to determine income ceiling, Centre tells Supreme CourtThe ministry said that the committee will re-visit the criterian in determining EWS category keeping in view the observations of the Supreme Court. “It will also examine various approaches so far followed in the country for identifying economically weaker sections, and recommend criteria that may be adopted for identifying EWS category in future,” it said.The 10% EWS quota was introduced under the 103rd Constitution (Amendment) Act, 2019 which is under challenge before a five-judge Constitution bench of the Supreme Court.Also Read | Centre can’t pull ₹8 lakh limit for EWS quota out of thin air: Supreme CourtSince the Act has not been stayed by the apex court, the government issued a notification on July 29 introducing 10% EWS quota along with 27% quota for OBC within AIQ seats for postgraduate medical courses from this academic year. By this decision, 2,500 PG seats in government medical colleges would go to OBCs and 1,000 to those from EWS.This decision was challenged in a clutch of petitions that came up for hearing on Thursday. The income criterion of ₹8 lakh fixed by the Centre was one of the grounds taken by the petitioners to question the July 29 decision.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/centre-forms-panel-to-revisit-8-lakh-income-limit-for-ews-quota-101638300814729.html
01-12-2021||India||Kerala govt protests RBI’s directives on co-operatives||Thiruvananthapuram: The ruling Left Democratic Front (LDF) in Kerala on Tuesday launched a statewide agitation against the latest regulatory measures of the Reserve Bank of India (RBI) to rein in primary co-operative societies and banks, calling it an “attack on the federal structure” of India. Chief minister Pinarayi Vijayan, who sat on a dharna outside the Raj Bhawan on Tuesday, said, “The RBI’s latest move is aimed at crippling the co-operative sector. Since co-operative sector is a state subject it is another attack on federal structure of the country. We will not allow this to happen.” In its directive issued last month, the RBI barred co-operative societies from using the term banks and restrained them from taking deposits from those who do not have voting rights. It also asked co-operative societies not to use locker facilities and other banking norms. The chief minister said his government will talk to other non-National Democratic Alliance (NDA)-ruled states like Maharashtra, Tamil Nadu and West Bengal to evolve a common strategy towards the directive against co-operative societies. HT has learnt that Kerala’s finance minister KN Balagopal and co-operation minister TN Vasavan have been asked to co-ordinate with other states. Vijayan said the co-operative sector is the “first point of the common man in banking solutions and any attempt to weaken it will affect the poor and marginalised sections”. The Kerala government has also decided to approach the Supreme Court over the RBI guidelines this week, Vasavan said on Tuesday. In Kerala, at least 70% of the co-operative societies and banks are being controlled by the ruling Communist Party of India (Marxist). In 2019, the Kerala state co-operative bank and 13 district co-operative banks were merged to float the Kerala Bank, which now has 769 branches across the state. While the new regulations won’t affect the Kerala Bank, there are 1,692 primary agricultural societies, 1,200 rural co-operative banks and 16 urban co-operative banks that are likely to be affected. The RBI came up with provisions to regulate primary co-operative banks based on the Banking Regulation Amendment Act passed by Parliament in September last year. The directive was advertised by RBI in newspapers last week.“Co-operative sector is a state subject. The Supreme Court had made it clear that co-operative banks have right to receive deposits and grant loans. The Centre’s move to interfere with co-operative sector was stalled by the court in a plea related to 97th constitutional amendment,” said Vasavan. In July 2020, the Supreme Court struck down a portion of the 97th constitutional amendment that took away exclusive authority of states over co-operative banks. A three-judge bench of the apex court ruled that co-operative societies come under the legislative power of the state assemblies while taking exception to the fact that the amendment was passed without ratification from states. “The latest RBI announcement has created enough confusion among customers. Such measures will cripple the co-operative sector. During the Covid-19 lockdown we disbursed enough fund to the needy. Since we are facing competition from micro-finance institutions, these steps will annihilate the co-operative sector eventually,” said Sreejith Choyan, president, Kadirur Service Co-operative Bank Ltd (Kannur district). An award-winning bank, it has 11 branches and a total turnover of ₹750 crore. “Many banks have started dishonoring cheques and transactions of the co-operative banks. Customers have started raising questions after the RBI publicized its guidelines in major newspapers. Such steps will cripple co-operative banks,” said a manager of another bank, who did not wish to be named. The Opposition Congress said it will oppose any move to weaken the co-operative sector. “We will give issue-based support to the government,” said Kerala Congress president K Sudhakaran. However, the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) justified the RBI directives. “Recently, the state witnessed several misappropriations in co-operative banks. In Karuvannur co-operative bank in Thrissur alone fraud worth ₹500 crore came to light. There is no proper auditing and supervision and most of them turned extended offices of the ruling party,” said Kerala BJP chief K Surendran. 
01-12-2021||India||Maoist party expels former central committee member||The Communist Party of India (Maoist) on Tuesday said it has expelled its former central committee and politburo member Kobad Ghandy from the outfit for abandoning the key principles of “Marxism-Leninism-Maoist thought” and adopting the bourgeois philosophy of “humanism and spiritualism.” A book written by 70-year-old Ghandy – Fractured Freedom: A Prison Memoir — after his release from jail in 2019 clearly revealed that the Maoist ideologue had completely “given up his ideology and chosen an idealistic path”, Abhay, spokesperson of the banned outfit’s central committee, said in a statement. Abhay’s statement also carried a profile on Ghandy. Born in a wealthy Parsi family in Mumbai in 1951, Ghady studied at the Doon School and graduated at St Xavier’s College, Mumbai. He later pursued chartered accountancy in London, where he was influenced by revolutionary ideology and returned to India without completing the course. He joined the CPI (Marxist-Leninist) People’s War and rose to become a member of its central committee in 1981. He played a key role in the formation of CPI (Maoist) with the merger of the People’s War and the Marxist Communist Centre in 2004, and continued to be its central committee member. The Maoist party has been banned in India and designated as a terrorist organisation under the Unlawful Activities (Prevention) Act since 2009. Ghandy was looking after the international affairs of the Maoist outfit and held meetings with Nepalese Maoist leader Prachanda and others. He was inducted into the politburo and was entrusted with the responsibility of building up mass organisations, the statement further said.His wife Anuradha was also a central committee member, and the couple worked in Maharasthra’s Gadchiroli area, where she died of cerebral malaria in 2008. Ghandy, who was facing various cases related to Maoist activities, including conspiring against the government, was arrested in Delhi in September 2009 and was jailed till 2019. Explaining the reasons for Ghandy’s expulsion, the spokesperson said the ideologue, after his release from jail, had not “contacted the party” and had written the book, in “violation of the party constitution, democratic centralism and ideological principles”. “Ghandy claimed that there is no happiness and freedom in practising Marxism which has failed in reaching its target. With this book, he is trying to inculcate pessimism in the revolutionary camp and false allegations against the Maoist party,” said Abhay, who uses only one name. Ghandy had openly praised criminal gangs and jail authorities, Abhay said. He falsely alleged that the Maoists had close links with the mafia and often led them in jail, the spokesperson said. Ghandy had never raised his voice in support of other prisoners when in jail, Abhay alleged. “Instead, he got favours from jail authorities. He is now alleging that the Maoist party doesn’t have the people’s support and the Maoist squads are nothing but roving rebels. This is nothing but singing the tune of the ruling class,” he said. 
01-12-2021||India||Karnataka: 13 students of govt hostel, 7 of medical college test Covid +ve||Thirteen students of a government-run residential hostel in Hassan and seven medical college students in Chamarajanagar tested Covid positive on Tuesday, according to the Karnataka health department. Following the detection of positive cases, the Morarji Desai hostel of Guramaranahalli village in Channarayapatna taluk of Hassan and Chamarajanagar Medical Sciences Institute have been sealed off by the authorities. All infected students of the hostel have been shifted to a Covid care centre. All are asymptomatic and recovering well, according to the health department. It has been decided to conduct tests on the primary contacts of the infected students. “The infections were found in the routine RT-PCR tests conducted by the health department for every 15 days. The hostel students infected with Covid-19 are studying in classes 6 to 10. All of them have been isolated and are being treated,” said a statement from the health department. Senior health and revenue departments’ officials rushed to the school and shifted them to the Covid care centre. More than 115 students, who are said to be primary contacts of the infected, were also sent to quarantine centres. The school was later sealed and sanitised. Covid-19 tests were also conducted on 325 students of the Chamarajanagar Medical Sciences Institute in which seven tested positive. About 500 primary contacts of the students and staff were tested and their results came negative. The tests were conducted on another 150 students and their test results are awaited. College dean Dr Sajeev Reddy had tested positive last week and is in home isolation. About 500 primary contacts of the students and staff were also tested and their reports are negative. Following this, the district administration has stepped up screening along the Kerala and Tamil Nadu borders and people without RT-PCR negative reports are not being allowed to enter the state. Karnataka government in an advisory following recent Covid-19 clusters said that all social and cultural events, conferences, seminars, academic events, etc. in educational institutions may be postponed for two months. The official statement issued by the Karnataka government said: “All students in medical and paramedical and other such educational institutions should be screened daily for symptoms of Covid-19. And the symptomatic should be tested and treated as per the guidelines already issued.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/karnataka13-students-of-govt-hostel-7-of-medical-college-test-covid-ve-101638300694511.html
01-12-2021||India||Karnataka government mandates RT-PCR test and quarantine for int’l passengers||Karnataka health minister KS Sudhakar on Tuesday said that the government has made it mandatory for all international passengers to undergo an RT-PCR test. “Around 2,500 international passengers arrive in Karnataka daily and it is now mandatory for everyone to undergo RT-PCR testing,” he said after meeting the Covid-19 technical advisory committee (TAC). Even those passengers who test negative will have to undergo home quarantine, Sudhakar told reporters. “For those who are negative will be home quarantined for seven days. Those who are symptomatic and negative will have to undergo testing at home on the 5th day. Asymptomatic will be tested on the 7th day. If positive, they will be immediately hospitalised. And they will be treated separately,” the minister said. A senior health department official said that checking of all international passengers is underway since last week.Covid’s new variant, the Omicron virus, has been found in 12 countries across the world and to prevent this variant, all necessary precautionary measures are being taken in the state, the minister said, answering a specific questions on the variant. “Considering our population and health infrastructure, we need to be more careful than other countries. Preparations for the health care services, including availability of beds, oxygen beds, deployment of doctors and personnel, and supply of medicine, were also discussed at the meeting,” he said. Those who haven’t got vaccination should voluntarily come forward and get vaccinated and stay safe, he said, adding suggestions regarding vaccine drive and measures to increase the numbers were discussed. “41 lakh people are slated to get the second dose of Covid vaccine. Priority will be given to reach out to these people,” Sudhakar said. At the meeting, ways to effectively deal with the Omicron virus, how to control it, and what preparations are to be taken in hospitals and medical colleges were also discussed. “Using technology such as Quarantine App, tele medicine is also being considered. In addition, a panel of 10 experts has been set up to formulate separate guidelines for treatment,” the minister told reporters. Meanwhile, reassuring the people that there is no proposal to impose lockdown in the state, chief minister Basavaraj Bommai has appealed to people not to heed to rumours in this regard. “There is no question of imposing the lockdown now. Normal life should go on. However, we want the people to strictly follow the Covid norms in public places. Institutions too need to function responsibly by adhering to the norms at programmes conducted by them,” the chief minister told reporters. He said the state government is keeping strict vigil against Omicron. Precautions against the Delta variant are also being tightened. “Government is tackling the issue on two fronts. Test swab samples in suspicious cases had been sent to NCBS for genome sequencing to ascertain the exact variant. International passengers are being strictly screened at airports. Those who were in contact with them are also being traced and tested,” he added. The state government has issued the guidelines for setting up clusters where a spurt in the cases had been reported. Those in the clusters are being tested again seven days after they get a positive report of the first test. About 4,000 people have been tested at SDM college in Dharwad. Similar tests are on at clusters in Mysuru, Hassan and Anekal in Bengaluru, Bommai said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/karnataka-government-mandates-rt-pcr-test-and-quarantine-for-int-l-passengers-101638300575410.html
01-12-2021||India||Contacts of two South African nationals test -ve for Covid: Karnataka minister||The primary and secondary contacts of the two South African nationals who tested positive for the Covid-19 have tested negative, Karnataka health minister K Sudhakar said on Tuesday. Sudhakar on Monday had said the sample of one of the South African nationals, who tested positive for Covid-19, is ‘different from the Delta variant’. Refusing to further divulge details, the minister said that he is in touch with the Union health ministry and the Indian Council for Medical Research officials. Two travellers from South Africa tested positive for Covid-19 in Bengaluru and their samples have been sent for genome sequencing to determine the variant. Officials said they tested positive for Covid during the RT-PCR tests conducted at the Kempegowda International Airport (KIA). The first passenger arrived in Bengaluru on November 11 and the second arrived on November 20. Both were in quarantine after the positive result. “We have sent the samples for further genome sequencing and results are expected in two to three days. But both patients don’t have any symptoms. In fact, they didn’t even require hospitalisation but we have kept them in a hospital as a precautionary measure,” he said. A new variant of the coronavirus, classified as Omicron, has spread in several parts of South Africa, forcing many countries to shut their borders. Karnataka has instituted a mandatory test-on-arrival, and a seven-day quarantine thereafter if people are negative. “We are taking every possible step to contain the spread of the new mutant strain. However, it is said to be spreading rapidly and I’m afraid we cannot stop it as India sees an influx of millions of people every day, being a large country. What we can do, however, is contain it,” the minister added. Sudhakar also said that he has sought a detailed report on the Omicron variant. “We will get clear information on December 1 about how the Omicron behaves after the genomic sequencing. Accordingly, we will initiate all measures,” he explained. Speaking about Omicron, Sudhakar, a medical professional, said he has spoken to doctors working in South Africa, who told him that the new variant is not as dangerous as the Delta variant. 
01-12-2021||India||Approached by Centre to join panel proposed by PM Modi: SKM||The Samyukt Kisan Morcha (SKM), a platform of protesting farm unions, on Tuesday said a Union government official reached out to one of its leaders, requesting the names of five people who could represent farmers on a committee proposed by Prime Minister Narendra Modi to look into issues related to cultivation and minimum support prices (MSPs).Farm unions may decide to participate in the committee if it is a “concrete” step towards guaranteeing prices of agricultural produce, farm leader Gurnam Singh Charuni said on Tuesday. If this happens, it could be a breakthrough in the deadlock between tens of thousands of protesting farmers and the Union government.“The SKM confirms that there was a telephone call from the Government of India to a Punjab farmer union leader, wherein the government wanted five names to be suggested from SKM’s side for a committee,” the farmers’ platform said in a statement.Charuni, a leader of the ongoing farmers’ movement against the Modi government’s policies, said farm unions may consider joining the proposed committee if it was “timebound” and its “intention” was to ensure profitable prices for farmers.In its statement, the SKM said it was “premature” to suggest names because “we have received no written communication and no details are available so far about what this committee is about, its mandate or Terms of Reference”.This is the first time since Modi announced a panel to look into farming issues that a senior leader of the Samyukt Kisan Morcha (SKM), a platform of over 40 protesting farm unions, has spoken about the possibility of cooperating with the government.Charuni said farmers would not give up their demand for a legislation to make MSPs in agricultural markets mandatory. An MSP is a floor price for crops meant to help avoid distress sale and farmers want a legal guarantee for it across 23-odd crops.“It doesn’t matter whether I am in the committee or not but if is a concrete and time-bound step towards meeting all our pending demands, which includes a guarantee of MSP, farm unions will have no problems in joining it,” Charuni said.He said the SKM would consider this and all other issues in a meeting on December 4. “The protests would not be withdrawn until all demands are met,” he added. Charuni, along with colleague Rakesh Tikait, bolstered the farm protests by bringing it out of Punjab and expanding its sphere of influence.According to Charuni, farm unions also want monetary compensation to nearly 700 farmers who died during the course of the agitation and withdrawal of all criminal cases registered against farmers in various states.Parliament on Monday passed the bill to repeal the three farm laws, after a year of protests by farmers.Prime Minister Modi had announced during a nationally televised address on November 19 that his government was withdrawing the three agricultural laws because it couldn’t convince farmers about its benefits. Modi also announced a panel would be set up to pare costs of cultivations and making MSPs effective.The government’s decision to scrap the laws came ahead of crucial state elections in Uttar Pradesh, the country’s most populous bellwether state, and Punjab, where farmers are an influential voting bloc.The farmers’ movement against the laws first began as sporadic demonstrations in Punjab in October 2020 but snowballed into a full-blown political uprising against the Modi government, spreading to several states in the course of a year, including Haryana, Uttar Pradesh and Rajasthan.
01-12-2021||India||Seven lose vision in one eye after cataract surgery in Bihar’s Muzaffarpur||At least seven people lost vision in an eye after contracting severe infection after undergoing free cataract surgeries at private hospital in Bihar’s Muzaffarpur, officials familiar with the matter said on Tuesday. Muzaffarpur district magistrate Pranav Kumar said a team has been constituted for the probe. The matter came to light after one eye of each of the seven patients had to be removed owing to panophthalmitis (severe eye infection) after they underwent the surgery at Muzaffarpur Eye Hospital. “Eyes of four people were removed at the same hospital (Muzaffarpur Eye hospital) located in Juran Chhapra area of Muzaffarpur and of three others at Shri Krishna Medical College & Hospital, Muzaffarpur (SKMCH),” said Muzaffarpur civil surgeon Dr Vinay Kumar Sharma. Six others are currently undergoing treatment at SKMCH, Sharma said. He refused to share the date of removal of eyes. Dr Subhash P, one of the four members of the probe team, said, “During preliminary investigation, it was found that as many as 65 patients underwent surgery at the hospital on November 22 itself. We have come across 13 cases in which either patients’ eyes have been removed or are undergoing treatment so far.” The management of Muzaffarpur Eye Hospital admitted all of them were operated on there. “In the wake of the complaints from some patients after the operation, they were referred to other hospitals in Patna. In the meantime, we had to remove the eyes of four patients at our hospital itself,” Deepak Kumar, assistant manager, Muzaffarpur Eye Hospital, said. The matter came to light on Monday after victims’ family members approached Sharma’s office complaining about the doctors’ negligence at Muzaffarpur Eye Hospital. HT spoke to some of the victims’ kin and learnt of a common thread in the tragedy. A resident of Muzaffarpur, Kaushaya Devi, in her 70’s, suffered excruciating pain along with swelling and frequent water discharge from her left eye (operated), hours after she was discharged from the Muzaffarpur hospital on November 22. “We took her to Muzaffarpur Eye Hospital and were told the need for immediate removal of the eye as it has gone past redemption and may affect the sight of the other eye,” said Chandan Kumar, Kaushaya Devi’s grandson. Some others whose eyes had to be removed after cataract surgery are Savatri Devi (Muzaffarpur), Harendra Rajak (Vaishali), Meena Devi (Muzaffarpur) and Kaushalya Devi (Muzaffarpur). Jaitun Khatoon and Jumarati Miyan, residents of separate villages in Muzaffarpur district, complained of extreme pain. “I feel like losing sight completely,” said Khatoon.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/seven-lose-vision-in-one-eye-after-cataract-surgery-in-bihar-s-muzaffarpur-101638299975384.html
01-12-2021||India||Row after empty liquor bottles found in Bihar assembly complex||The Bihar government led by Nitish Kumar of Janata Dal (United) faced criticism on Tuesday after empty liquor bottles were recovered in legislature premises of the state assembly. The bottles were found under a tree in the area earmarked as parking lot for two-wheelers, officials said.Leader of the opposition Tejashwi Yadav raised the matter in the post lunch session of the state assembly, calling it was outrageous.Chief minister Nitish Kumar informed the house that he was not aware of recovery of liquor bottles on the premises of the state legislature and said a probe could be ordered on permission from Speaker Vijay Kumar Sinha to ascertain how the liquor bottles found their way inside the legislature premises.“We will ask the state police chief and chief secretary to carry a thorough inquiry,” Kumar said.Responding to CM, Yadav said, “Please ensure that lower-level officials are not made scapegoats and the big fish do not go unpunished.”Officials familiar with the developments said the chief minister held a meeting with director general of police (DGP) S K Singhal and chief secretary Tripurari Sharan in the assembly in the afternoon. In the evening, the DGP told reporters that the place where empty bottles were recovered was not under CCTV coverage but all angles are being probed.Yadav accused the government of failing to implement the liquor ban. “This is outrageous. The spot is less than 100 metres away from the chief minister’s chamber. Only yesterday, the chief minister presided over a farce wherein NDA legislators took the pledge, inside the central hall here, against liquor consumption,” the leader of opposition told reporters later outside the assembly premises, adding “within 24 hours, liquor bottles have been found in the same premises.” “Prohibition in Bihar is a total failure and administering oath not to drink liquor to people is all a sham,” said Yadav. Criticising government, Yadav said: “The government will not give a logical reply and dub the entire episode of recovery of liquor bottle in the assembly premises as a conspiracy by the opposition. The chief minister must resign as he is also the home minister.”Yadav’s party Rashtriya Janata Dal (RJD) and other opposition parties, including the Congress, have been critical of the state government, especially for the last one month as the state registered 40 alleged hooch-related deaths in Gopalganj, West Champaran and Muzaffarpur districts.Liquor ban in Bihar is in force since April 2016.[Below incident -- is it related to recovery of bottles, please clarify????]Two MLAs exchange expletives in public .The state assembly premises on Tuesday witnessed unsavoury scenes when RJD legislator Bhai Virendra and BJP’s Sanjay Saraogi indulged in an ugly spat, exchanging expletives in full view of media persons before the assembly sat for the day.Reports said the trouble started when Bhai Virendra passed a caustic comment against Saraogi, calling him a person having adulterated roots. The latter hit back, accusing Virendra of being corrupt. The spat soon turned ugly and both the legislators started hurling expletives before they were pacified.
01-12-2021||India||Colour blind student challenges admission denial by FTII, SC says panel to review criteria||Christopher Nolan, the man behind several Hollywood blockbusters such as The Dark Knight, Inception, Memento and Interstellar, is a role model for Patna-based Ashutosh Kumar. Incidentally, Kumar and Nolan have one thing in common – both are colour blind, unable to distinguish between certain colours.On Tuesday, Kumar, 35, convinced the Supreme Court to consider whether he should be barred from admission to the prestigious Film and Television Institute of India (FTII) just because he is colour blind even as Nolan is revered across the globe for his keen eye for cinematic beauty. Moved by Kumar’s passion for filmmaking and his persistence, a bench of justices Sanjay Kishan Kaul and MM Sundresh decided to review of FTII’s admission criteria with respect to colour blind candidates, especially after taking into account the advancement in technology as well as medical science.The bench directed the creation of a panel of experts, comprising an ophthalmologist (a doctor who specializes in eye and vision care), a film director, a film editor, a colourist, a script supervisor, a head of department of FTII and a lawyer. “Role of the committee would be to ascertain whether colour blindness is to be perceived as a disqualification for all courses in FTII,” stated the court order, emphasising that the FTII’s regulation requires a relook on the principle of providing “reasonable accommodation” for disabled persons under the Right to Persons with Disabilities (RPwD) Act of 2016. Kumar applied for the three-year post graduate diploma course in film editing at FTII in 2015 and he was also short listed for the course. But his candidature was declined after he was found to be colour blind during the medical examination. The authorities cited FTII Rules which state that colour blind candidates are not fit for admission in a few courses, including film editing. Kumar approached the Bombay high court in 2016 against denial of admission to him but got no relief. The high court noted that FTII has set up an admission committee of experts from various fields to review the admission criteria and carved out six out of 12 courses at FTII in which colour blind candidates are not found suitable. It rejected Kumar’s plea, holding a court cannot interfere when an expert body has fixed eligibility criteria for FTII courses. Aggrieved by this order, Kumar filed an appeal in the Supreme Court in September 2017 through advocate Satya Mitra, and urged the court to declare that part of FTII’s prospectus disallowing persons with colour blindness from pursing the film editing course is violative of the right to equality and right to life. Arguing for Kumar before the top court on Tuesday, senior advocate Colin Gonsalves highlighted that several leading filmmakers, including Nolan, are colour blind. He also placed on record statements by some FTII’s alumni who maintained that they had no issues with various aspects of film making even though they suffered from colour vision deficiency. Gonsalves further argued that Satyajit Ray Film and Television Institute does not discriminate against candidates with colour blindness or partial defect. Advocate Amit Anand Tiwari, representing FTII, submitted that the institute is sensitive to candidates with disabilities and that decision to hold colour blind candidates unsuitable for 6 out 12 courses was taken after a study by the expert committee, which also took into account the problems faced by two colour blind candidates who were admitted to the institute in a different course in 2013. At this, the bench also wondered if there was a scope for a judicial review in a case like this where FTII had taken a considered decision after a panel went into the issues. However, some recent Supreme Court judgments came in handy for Gonsalves --a 2017 judgment that allowed two colour-blind students to pursue MBBS course; a 2018 judgment that allowed a candidate with “low-vision” to pursue the MBBS course; and a February judgment that cautioned against the adoption of one size fits all approach and called on the Union government to to provide “reasonable accommodation” to persons with disability. Reasonable accommodation means necessary and appropriate modification and adjustments not imposing a disproportionate or undue burden.The bench then found it appropriate to follow the course adopted by the Supreme Court in these judgments and directed for setting up a committee of experts to review if FTII regulations need revamping. “It is an evolving process. We now have documents with details of some renowned filmmakers, some even got national awards in India, who have been colour blind...The best thing to say that with advancement of science, the issue should be revisited by a committee, within the principle of reasonable accommodation. It is futuristic thinking,” observed the bench.The bench then recorded in its order that a committee of experts, including a film director, a colourist, a script supervisor, a film editor, an ophthalmologist and head of department of the course concerned, shall be set up to examine the matter. The panel will submit its report to the court in three months. The bench is expected to name members of the committee on Monday after it consults some experts. In the meantime, Gonsalves and Tiwari have also been asked to submit a few names of the proposed members. FTII is India’s leading film institute based in Pune, Maharashtra. Its list of famous alumni include Adoor Gopalakrishnan, Naseeruddin Shah, Shabana Azmi, Om Puri, Jaya Bachhan, Santosh Sivan and Sanjay Leela Bhansali. 
01-12-2021||India||Covid patients to be hospitalised, no isolation at home in Bhopal||Bhopal: Every coronavirus infected person will have to be admitted to a dedicated Covid-19 hospital in Bhopal as they will not be allowed to live in home isolation, the district collector ordered on Tuesday. The move came after the active Covid-19 cases increased to 79 in Bhopal and 42 in Indore in the past 15 days, the highest since July, and chief minister Shivraj Singh Chouhan asking district administrations to take necessary precautions. On Tuesday evening, Bhopal collector Avinash Lavaniya released detailed guidelines to contain the spread of Covid-19. “The infected people will not be isolated at home. They have to be admitted to a Covid dedicated Katju hospital. Similarly, every person from guests to caterers in functions will have to be fully vaccinated. The district administration can check the certificates through a random visit. In case of any fault, the organiser will have to pay a fine of ₹500 for every unvaccinated person who is allowed in the function.” “The fine for violating Covid-19 protocols has been increased to ₹500 from ₹100. Shop and company owners and head of all private and government offices have been asked to ensure 100% vaccination of their employees,” said Lavaniya. In Indore, district collector Manish Singh issued similar instructions. On Tuesday, 40 shops were sealed for allowing unvaccinated employees, according to the district administration. The CM also asked the districts administration to remain vigilant on new variant of Covid 19, Omicron. “The listing of all the people who returned from foreign countries is being done by the district administration. The contact tracing and genome sequencing will be done of all the returnees who will be tested positive for the virus,” said the CM. The CM said he would make citizens aware about the use of masks and social organisations will also be linked with the awareness campaign. All the medical equipment and important machines should be ready to deal with any surge, he told the officials of health department.A government statement said that instructions were issued to arrange Covid-19 tests at railway stations and airport. At present, rapid antigen tests are being done at the railway station. Instructions were also given to arrange RT-PCR test, the statement said.
01-12-2021||India||Admiral R Hari Kumar takes charge as Navy chief||Admiral R Hari Kumar, 59, on Tuesday took over as 25th chief of the Indian Navy, succeeding Admiral Karambir Singh who retired after 41 years of military service. Kumar was heading the Mumbai-based Western Naval Command before taking over the reins of the navy. The officer, a gunnery specialist, was commissioned into the navy in January 1983. Kumar has taken charge of the navy at a time when the service is in the midst of several critical inductions, including an aircraft carrier, warships, submarines and modern helicopters to bolster its combat potential. He has also assumed the responsibility amid changing power dynamics in the Indian Ocean Region where the Chinese navy is seeking to increase its footprint. “It is a great honour for me to take over as the 25th chief of naval staff of the Indian Navy. The navy’s focus is on national maritime interests and maritime security challenges. For this, we will use our full strength. My predecessors have guided the navy with visionary leadership and I will take the navy forward in the same direction and build on their achievements,” Kumar said. Kumar touched his octogenarian mother Vijayalakshmi’s feet and sought her blessings after taking charge as navy chief. The warships commanded by Kumar in a career spanning 38 years include aircraft carrier INS Viraat (no longer in service), INS Ranvir, INS Nishank and INS Kora. He has attended courses at the Naval War College, US, Army War College, Mhow and Royal College of Defence Studies, UK. In one of his earlier appointments, he served as chief of integrated defence staff to the chairman, chiefs of staff committee. In that capacity, he was closely involved with the ongoing theaterisation drive for optimal use of the military’s resources. The navy will take steps towards jointness, he said on Tuesday. Kumar has taken charge of the navy at a time when the department of military affairs (DMA), headed by chief of defence staff (CDS) General Bipin Rawat, has asked the three services to expedite their ongoing studies on the creation of threatre commands to best utilise the military’s resources for future wars and operations, and submit comprehensive reports within six months. The setting of an April 2022 deadline for the submission of studies focusing on finalising the joint structures seeks to give new impetus to theaterisation, a long-awaited military reform. The deadline for submitting the reports has been advanced from September 2022 to April 2022. The current theaterisation model seeks to set up four new integrated commands for synergy in operations --- two land-centric theatres, an air defence command and a maritime theatre command. The creation of theatre commands could take up to two years.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/admiral-r-hari-kumar-takes-charge-as-navy-chief-101638299195441.html
01-12-2021||India||Six test Covid positive in Maharashtra after return from high-risk countries||Amid rising concerns over new coronavirus variant Omicron, six residents of Maharashtra, who recently returned from high-risk countries, have tested positive for Covid-19, health officials said on Tuesday. The patients’ samples have been sent for genome sequencing and reports are expected within a week, they added.According to the Pune Municipal Corporation (PMC), of the three who tested positive in Pune district, while one patient returned from Zambia, two others came back from Nigeria.A statement from the Public Health Department said: “Currently, six passengers, who arrived from South Africa or other high-risk countries, have tested Covid-19 positive. Of these six, one each has been found in Mumbai Corporation, Kalyan-Dombivali Corporation, Mira-Bhayandar Corporation and Pune limits, while the two Nigeria returnees come under Pimpri-Chinchwad civic body. All their samples have been sent for genetic sequencing and their contact tracing exercise is underway. All these passengers are either asymptomatic or mildly symptomatic. Genetic changes/mutation in viruses is a natural phenomenon and people should not panic.”The Zambia returnee has been identified as a 60-year-old man, who arrived in Mumbai on November 20 and took a cab to Pune. “The patient, along with his family, returned to India on November 20, via Mumbai airport and then they took a cab to Pune. The 60-year old man felt discomfort and stomach pain following which he got himself tested at Deenanath Mangeshkar hospital and tested positive for the infection,” said Dr Ashish Bharti, chief of the PM health department. The patient’s family members and the cab driver have tested negative, while the 60-year-old is stable, asymptomatic and is nearing the completion of his 14-day isolation period, he added.Omicron, first found in South Africa, has been identified in at least 12 other countries. Cases have emerged in Botswana, Italy, Hong Kong, Australia, Belgium, the United Kingdom, Denmark, Germany, Canada, Israel and the Czech Republic. Zambia borders three of the high-risk countries -- Zimbabwe, Botswana and Namibia.In light of this new variant, the central government has revised travel guidelines to check the spread of the Omicron variant of coronavirus.The revised rules for returning international passengers has been revised by the central health ministry which includes self declaration form on Air Suvidha Portal which includes details designation address for contact tracing, details of all travellers to be shared with concerned authorities and random sampling for RT-PCR tests from countries not “at risk”Bharti said the Pune civic body is currently tracking 40 people who have recently returned from the “at-risk” countries. “The Indian Council of Medical Research, in a video conference held on Tuesday, has assured us that the current set of RTPCR kits and Rapid Antigen Test kits would be able to detect the Omicron variant,” he added.Maharashtra chief minister Uddhav Thackeray, too, conducted a meeting on Monday on tracing such international travellers and ensuring contact tracing. “The meeting also discussed the issue of how to check the passengers arriving from abroad without landing directly at Mumbai or other airports in Maharashtra and then travelling at other places in the country by domestic airlines, road or rail. The question is how to test such people and the prime minister should be apprised of this,” a statement quoted Thackeray as saying.The order issued by the Maharashtra chief secretary Debashish Chakrabarty added that passengers from other states would compulsorily require a negative RT-PCR test within 48 hours of arrival. While international passengers arriving from other than at-risk countries too would have to undergo compulsory RT-PCR test and 14-day home quarantine. If found positive, they would be shifted to a hospital.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/six-test-covid-positive-in-maharashtra-after-return-from-high-risk-countries-101638299194337.html
01-12-2021||India||Parliament winter session: Suspended MPs should apologise, says Goyal||Amid vehement protest by opposition members, Union minister Piyush Goyal on Tuesday said the suspension of 12 Rajya Sabha MPs, for their “unruly” behaviour during the last session of Parliament, cannot be reconsidered till they apologise.Also Read | Oppn anger against RS action stalls ParliamentSpeaking in the Upper House, Goyal said: “I want to bring your attention to the last day of the monsoon session. That day some MPs attacked women marshals, some attacked male marshals. They stood firm. We shudder to think what could have happened to the chair. It was important to take action to maintain the dignity of the House.”“We suggested that a committee be formed to deal with the matter. However, many opposition parties refused to be a part of it. Their contention that such a panel can only work when House is in session is wrong as the House is constant. So it’s the House’s decision to suspend them. They can make a mistake but they should apologise as everyone can make a mistake,” he added.Goyal’s remarks came in the wake of allegations by opposition parties that the motion of suspension was not in adherence to the rules and regulations of the Upper House.The minister also praised Parliament staff for showing patience and restraint in dealing with the “unruly opposition members”.“I want to congratulate Parliament officials who bore the brunt of such an attack. But when one member almost attacked the chair, there was no choice but to suspend them for a day,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/parliament-winter-session-suspended-mps-should-apologise-says-goyal-101638299014301.html
01-12-2021||India||Doctor can’t be held guilty of negligence just because a patient died: Supreme Court||No doctor can assure life to his patient but can only attempt to treat everyone to the best of his or her abilities, said the Supreme Court on Tuesday, as it underscored that a doctor cannot be held guilty of medical negligence just because a patient has not survived.“There is a tendency to blame the doctor when a patient dies or suffers some mishap. This is an intolerant conduct of the family members to not accept the death in such cases. The increased cases of manhandling of medical professionals who worked day and night without their comfort has been very well seen in this pandemic,” lamented a bench of justices Hemant Gupta and V Ramasubramanian.The bench added: “In spite of the treatment, if the patient had not survived, the doctors cannot be blamed as even the doctors with the best of their abilities cannot prevent the inevitable...The doctors are expected to take reasonable care but none of the professionals can assure that the patient would overcome the surgical procedures.”It underlined that there must be sufficient material or medical evidence should be available before the adjudicating authority to arrive at the conclusion that death is due to medical negligence. “Every death of a patient cannot on the face of it be considered to be medical negligence,” said the bench.The court said this while allowing an appeal filed by Bombay Hospital and Medical Research Centre against the National Consumer Disputes Redressal Commission’s order to pay ₹14.18 lakh to the family of one Dinesh Jaiswal, who died in June 1998 following unsuccessful surgeries of his gangrene in his limbs.The family attributed Jaiswal’s demise to negligence in conducting surgeries, absence of the treating senior doctor, lack of operation theater, and a broken-down angiography machine. The hospital, however, refuted all allegations, stating the best possible treatment by present medical professionals and within the resources available was provided.In its 2010 judgment, the national consumer commission invoked the principle of “res ipsa loquitur” (mere occurrence of certain event can lead to an inference of negligence of the other side) to hold the hospital guilty of medical negligence.But the top court on Tuesday set aside this judgment, noting the order suffered from legal as well as factual infirmities.“It is a case where the patient was in serious condition impending gangrene even before admission to the hospital but even after surgery and re-exploration, if the patient does not survive, the fault cannot be fastened on the doctors as a case of medical negligence. It is too much to expect from a doctor to remain on the bed side of the patient throughout his stay in the hospital which was being expected by the complainant here. A doctor is expected to provide reasonable care which is not proved to be lacking in any manner in the present case,” held the bench.The court underlined that there was never a stage when the patient was left unattended and mere fact that the main treating doctor had gone abroad cannot lead to an inference of medical negligence because the patient was admitted in a hospital having 20 specialists in multi-faculties.“The patient was in a critical condition and if he could not survive even after surgery, the blame cannot be passed on to the hospital and the doctor who provided all possible treatment within their means and capacity,” it said.On the aspect of delay in re-exploration after the initial surgery threw up complications due to non-availability of an operation theater, the bench noted that it was only a matter of chance that all the four operation theatres of the hospital were occupied when the patient was to undergo surgery.“We do not find that the expectation of the patient to have an emergency operation theatre is reasonable as the hospital can provide only as many operation theatres as the patient load warrants. If the operation theatres were occupied at the time when the operation of the patient was contemplated, it cannot be said that there is negligence on the part of the hospital,” it said.The court added that a team of specialist doctors was available and also attended to the patient but “unfortunately, nature had the last word” and the patient breathed his last. “The family may not have coped with the loss of their loved one, but the hospital and the doctor cannot be blamed as they provided the requisite care at all given times,” it maintained.The deceased’s family was paid ₹5 lakh as interim compensation by the top court in March 2010 when it had agreed to examine the hospital’s appeal. The bench said that this amount shall be treated as ex gratia payment to Jaiswal’s family and will not be recovered by the hospital.
