02-12-2021||India||Undergo 7-day quarantine, Odisha tells 380 residents who returned from ‘at risk’ countries||Bhubaneswar: The Odisha government has decided to advise 380 people who returned to the state after the World Health Organisation declared the Omicron variant of the Sars-Cov-2 as ‘variant of concern’ to undergo quarantine for a period of 7 days.Niranjan Mishra, director of Odisha’s Public Health, said 380 people returned to the state from countries infected with the Omicron variant of Covid by November 29.“All passengers who have arrived from the foreign countries will have to undergo RT-PCR test. Those found positive will immediately be sent to isolation and the swab samples will be sent for genome sequencing. If the test report comes negative, the traveller or returnee will have to remain under seven-day home quarantine mandatorily and again undergo another round of Covid-19 test on the eighth day, Even though all the returnees have been directed to carry Covid negative certificates while travelling, they still have been advised to undergo quarantine for a period of seven days,” said Mishra.Mishra said the details of these travellers have been shared with respective district administrations for follow-up action.Bijay Panigrahi, director, Health and Family Welfare said the total number of Covid-19 vaccines administered in Odisha has reached 4.38 crore.“Odisha had set a target of completing 90% vaccination as per Centre’s ‘Har Ghar Dastak’ or the door-to-door Covid-19 vaccination campaign but managed to reach only 86% so far. We hope the remaining 4% of people will get the dose in December. Our efforts are on to achieve 100% vaccination or to ensure that all are administered with the first dose by the end of December,” said Panigrahi.The state has increased the number of vaccination centres at the village level and teams are visiting villages to provide mobile vaccination facilities. But 46 lakh people are yet to take the first dose of Covid while 31 lakh people are yet to take the second dose.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/undergo-7-day-quarantine-odisha-tells-380-residents-who-returned-from-at-risk-countries-101638469782030.html
02-12-2021||India||26/11 has no parallels... it needed a kinetic response, says Congress MP Manish Tewari||Congress parliamentarian and former minister, Manish Tewari, has caused a stir with his book, 10 Flashpoints, 20 Years: National Security Situations that have Impacted India. In an interview with Harinder Baweja, he speaks about the surgical strikes, the Mumbai attacks, and the UPA and NDA’s handling of security issues. Edited excerpts: You write in the book that the country does not have a national security doctrine. The Modi government certainly believes it does -- It has authored two surgical strikes against Pakistan.  Substantive changes have taken place over the last two decades, and India is now not only looking at how to deal with hijackings and non-state actors. If you look at what the PLA is doing, and the increased weaponisation of the cyber domain, it is clear that India is dealing with new challenges on the security front; challenges we still don’t have a response to. Vis-a-vis Pakistan, the optics suggests that the government has been aggressive but the hard question it should ask itself is: Has there been a change in Pakistan’s strategy to use non-state actors? The answer is, no. You have looked at flashpoints over 20 years. Who has fared better on the security front: UPA or NDA?The challenges are of the same order. In the case of Pakistan, the Modi-led NDA did initiate forward-leaning measures through the Uri and Balakot strikes but the jury is still out on whether Pakistan has changed its behaviour; whether it has stopped deploying non-state actors. Both NDA and UPA have tried to manage the challenges from Pakistan and China in different ways. In terms of trying to get peace, neither has succeeded. To be more precise, who has handled national security better, Modi or Manmohan Singh? To me, the proof of the pudding lies in the eating. I have raised the question of why there was no kinetic response by the Manmohan Singh government after the barbaric Mumbai attacks in 2008. Yes, the Modi government attempted surgical strikes but did the strikes alter Pakistan’s behaviour? The other important question is: Was the Modi government trying to address a domestic audience or trying to bring about a qualitative change in the security situation? To my mind, the Modi government has fallen between these two stools.Are you saying then that the Uri and Balakot strikes were aimed at the domestic audience?The Pulwama attack happened on the cusp of an election. The Kargil war was fought under a caretaker government. For every national security action, there will be domestic repercussions. That cannot be the defining impulse. Did Indira Gandhi create Bangladesh to win an election? No, she just won the election. Nobody accused Vajpayee or Indira Gandhi. Similarly, I would not accuse Modi of doing Balakot for political considerations. The question, and I have raised it earlier, is whether there has been a change in Pakistan’s behavior? The answer is No. You have said, and controversially so, that kinetic action should’ve followed the Mumbai attacks. Did you take up the issue with PM Mammohan Singh or Sonia Gandhi at the time? The UPA stayed in power for six years after and you were the national spokesperson at the time. The 26/11 attacks didn’t happen in isolation. They were a culmination of a nasty proxy war starting with Kargil, terror attacks in Kashmir and the attack on Parliament. 26/11 was a nasty finale to the humiliation meted out in Kargil. On November 28, when the Mumbai attacks were still in progress, when I briefed the media, I had said that we should initiate a kinetic response. I expressed my view as the national spokesman. I was neither in government nor in legislature, at the point and there was no occasion to take it up with the leadership.  Would you have written about kinetic action after 26/11 if you were not part of the 23 leaders that wrote a letter to the Congress President asking for sweeping changes in the party and a full-time President? Is it an attempt at selling the book? It has nothing to do with selling the book. I have been more than fulsome in my praise of Manmohan Singh vis-a-vis his handling of the economy and the nuclear deal. The group of 23 has nothing to do with national security. The reason I wrote this book is because there is not enough discussion and debate about national security and we think it can simply be left to some strategic experts. Is the book an attempt to cozy up to the BJP? There is no question of leaving the Congress party. I have been a Congressman for the last 40 years. In the book, I have been far more critical of the BJP’s handling of national security issues.India’s relations with China have deteriorated...The UPA government under Manmohan Singh maintained a modicum of stability with China. Intrusions in 2013 in Depsang were cleared within 13 days. Relations with China, under Modi, have steadily gone downhill, Modi has failed the China test. We lost 20 soldiers in Galwan and the downhill (slide) continues. That’s the reason why I say that Modi has failed the China test. In the book, you raise the question of why non-conventional means not been actively explored. What are you hinting at? As a democracy, there is a dilemma in the echelons of power, when it comes to hitting out at the fountainheads of terror… You mean Hafiz Saeed and Masood Azhar? You mean, target them, like the US did Osama bin Laden?Yes. The reason we have not gone down that street is because of the ethical dilemma and how that would be perceived internationally. So, in Uri and in Balakot, India’s response was aimed at the larger Pakistani state rather than the kingpins of the terror strike. 26/11 was a watershed in the sheer barbarity of the attack. It has few parallels. That’s why I have argued that there should have been a kinetic response. To end, what’s the way forward on the national security front? To quote from your book -- nuclear tests have not brought strategic windfall, coercive diplomacy has not entirely worked, nor have friendly overtures. The way forward is two-fold: a well articulated security doctrine and a policy that goes beyond partisan lines. Right now, we are not even willing to debate China in Parliament. 
02-12-2021||India||TMC inducts over 50 new members in Haryana, to inaugurate party office on Dec 8||Taking the expansion drive of the party to the next level, the Trinamool Congress (TMC) on Thursday inducted 50 people from Haryana ahead of the inauguration of its party office in the state on December 8.The TMC MP and party's Haryana in-charge Sukhendu Sekhar Roy told ANI that the party will bring up an Ad-hoc committee in Haryana at the state and district level."People supporting TMC, from 22 districts of Haryana, came to meet us. We had a discussion over making the party strong in Haryana. On December 8, we will inaugurate our party office in the state and will reach at the grassroots level there," said Roy.TMC has witnessed a steady stream of leaders joining its ranks after quitting from Congress in the last few months.In September, former Goa chief minister Luizinho Faleiro joined TMC after resigning from the primary membership of Congress. Following Faleiro's shift, nine other leaders from Congress also joined TMC, sources had informed.Congress MP from Assam's Silchar and ex-president of All India Mahila Congress, Sushmita Dev had joined the TMC in August this year. She has been assigned to look after TMC's affairs in Tripura.Moreover, Luizinho Faleiro and Sushmita Dev both were awarded Rajya Sabha seats after joining TMC.Ahead of the 2022 Goa assembly polls, North Goa Congress Seva Dal Chief Ulhas Vaskar and Shiv Sena Block President (Ponda) Vinod Borkar joined the TMC on October 21.Congress leader Kirti Azad and former Haryana Congress president Ashok Tanwar also recently joined TMC. Tanwar was once a close aide of Rahul Gandhi.Two senior Congress leaders of Uttar Pradesh had joined TMC in October including Rajeshpati Tripathi and Lalitpati Tripathi.Rajeshpati is an ex-MLC and Laliteshpati is former Uttar Pradesh Congress vice-president and an ex-MLA. Rajeshpati and Laliteshpati are the grandsons and great-grandson of former Uttar Pradesh chief minister Kamalapati Tripathi, respectively.Banerjee had visited Delhi in July this year. It was her first visit after Trinamool Congress returned to power in the Bengal Assembly polls. During her visit, he had met Sonia Gandhi and Rahul Gandhi amongst other leaders.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/tmc-inducts-over-50-new-members-in-haryana-to-inaugurate-party-office-on-dec-8-101638464299061.html
02-12-2021||India||No decision on special census, says Arunachal after opposition from Chakma group||GUWAHATI: An organization of Chakmas has alleged that the Arunachal Pradesh government is going to conduct an exclusive census of Chakma and Hajong communities in the state, complaining that it amounts to racial profiling of the communities and was designed to expel them from the northeastern state.In a statement issued on Thursday, the Delhi-based Chakma Development Foundation of India (CDFI) urged Prime Minister Narendra Modi to intervene and stop the exercise.“This exclusive census is an act of racial profiling as only the Chakmas and Hajongs are being singled out. Arunachal Pradesh shares borders with China and Myanmar from where illegal migration of population has been taking place since Independence,” said Suhas Chakma of CDFI in a statement. “Further illegal immigration and settlement of people without Inner Line Permit has been taking place regularly and their settlements are visible in most parts of Arunachal Pradesh. Yet, the state government is targeting only Chakmas and Hajongs in clear violations of the Constitution of India,” he added. Authorities at Changlang district in southeastern Arunachal Pradesh, where this census is supposed to take place, have, however, said that there is no immediate plan for such an exercise and the issue is just at a proposal stage.“The move is just at a proposal stage now and nothing has materialised yet. An unnecessary controversy is being created. Before starting any such exercise, we will take all stakeholders into confidence,” Devansh Yadav, deputy commissioner of Changlang, said. “Similar exercises have happened in 2010 and 2015 as well. While local Chakma and Hajong groups don’t seem to have any issue, organisations based outside Arunachal Pradesh seem more bothered. As of now, no census will take place in December and in the near future,” he added.On November 26, Changlang district issued a letter to officials at Miao, Bordumsa, Kharsang and Diyun circles of the district for a “special census” to be conducted in all the Chakma and Hajong inhabited areas of Arunachal Pradesh.The letter reportedly asked officials in the four circles to finalise names of supervisors and enumerators by December 10 so that survey work can be completed by December 20 and the census report submitted to the state government on or before December 31. Chakmas and Hajongs, who are Buddhists and Hindus respectively, migrated to India between 1964 and 1966 from Chittagong Hills Tract (CHT) of then East Pakistan (now Bangladesh) to escape religious persecution and were settled in North East Frontier Agency (NEFA), present Arunachal Pradesh.The migrants were settled with a rehabilitation plan, allotted land and provided with financial assistance depending on the size of their families to help rebuild their lives. As per the 2011 census, there are 47,471 Chakmas and Hajongs in Arunachal Pradesh.
02-12-2021||India||3 contacts of international passengers test positive for Covid-19 in Maharashtra||As many as three close contacts of 25 international travellers, who landed in Maharashtra, have been found positive for coronavirus disease (Covid-19), news agency ANI reported on Thursday. “Samples of all three have been sent for genomic sequencing,” the Maharashtra government's public health department stated.According to the department, field surveillance of all foreign passengers who arrived in the state since November 1 is currently underway. As many as 28 samples collected from both airport as well as field surveillance have been sent for genome sequencing. “Out of these, 25 are of international travellers and three belong to their close contacts,” ANI reported, citing the health department.Until Thursday morning, a total of 861 international passengers have been tested with RT-PCR in Maharashtra to find out if they are infected with Covid-19.Field surveillance of all int'l passengers who have arrived since 1st Nov is underway. A total of 28 samples from both airport & field surveillance have been sent for genome sequencing. Out of these 28, 25 are international travellers & 3 their close contacts: Public Health DeptThis development comes on the day India reported its first cases of Omicron Covid-19 variant, after two people tested positive for the newest strain. Two men, aged 66 and 46, tested for the Omicron variant in Karnataka, with state health minister Dr K Sudhakar informing that the 66-year-old man is a South African national, who has already returned to his homeland.Following the detection of the cases of Omicron Covid-19 variant in India, the country has now joined a list of 30 other nations, which have so far confirmed the presence of the strain. The World Health Organisation (WHO) has classified Omicron a “variant of concern”, but, also stressed on the fact that blanket travel bans from affected countries will not help in combatting the new strain.Also Read | All contacts of India’s 1st Omicron patient test negative, not so for 2nd patientNotably, several countries, including the US, the UK and Japan have imposed travel bans on southern African countries due to Omicron's discovery.The Centre, however, on Thursday asked Indians not to panic. During a press briefing, director general of Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR) Balram Bhargava said Covid-appropriate behaviour must be followed, and that people must not delay getting fully vaccinated against the virus.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/3-close-contacts-of-international-passengers-test-covid-positive-in-maharashtra-101638465062336.html
02-12-2021||India||No new travel curbs yet, says MEA after 2 test positive for Omicron in Bengaluru||India said on Thursday that it has not imposed any travel curbs following the detection of the Omicron variant of the Coronavirus, though surveillance mechanisms and protocols have been intensified for travellers from at-risk countries. “This is a very evolving situation, and two cases [of the Omicron variant] have been confirmed in Karnataka,” external affairs ministry spokesperson Arindam Bagchi told a regular news briefing. “We don’t have travel curbs as such. Some countries have stopped flights from that region or countries they define vis-a-vis Omicron, We haven’t done that. We have instead intensified surveillance mechanisms and protocols for those who happen to come from at-risk countries and not just limited to Omicron,” he said. Travellers from at-risk countries have to take RT-PCR tests on arrival and undergo seven-day home quarantine. There are 11 entries on the list of at-risk countries, which were identified on the basis of facts and evidence from health and regulatory authorities. The list existed prior to the identification of the Omicron variant and it is based on the incidence profile of Covid-19 in those countries. The list includes all countries in Europe, including the UK, South Africa, Brazil, Botswana, China, Mauritius, New Zealand, Zimbabwe, Singapore, Hong Kong, and Israel. India, Bagchi said, has offered to provide medical supplies and vaccines to African countries and also cleared all requests for assistance from that region. “We stand ready to supply essential life-saving drugs, test kits, PPE kits, medical equipment and ventilators depending on the situation,” he said. India is also willing to look at deeper medical collaboration in areas such as genomic surveillance if any country in Africa makes such a request, he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/no-new-travel-curbs-yet-says-mea-after-2-test-positive-for-omicron-in-bengaluru-101638467081869.html
02-12-2021||India||Omicron alert: WHO South-East regional director advises increased surveillance||Hours after India's very first cases of the Omicron variant of the coronavirus, which is said to be highly contagious and capable of undergoing frequent mutations, was detected in Karnataka, Poonam Khetreapal Singh, the regional director of the World Health Organisation's (WHO) South-East Asia region, advised caution and increased surveillance over all variants of the coronavirus disease (Covid-19).Highlighting that all countries in the region should remain alert, Dr Singh said that the priority, as always, remains on taking all Covid-19-related precautionary measures and adhering to social protocols instituted by the respective governments.“The confirmation of Omicron Variant of Concern today by India, the first two cases in WHO South-East Asia Region, was not unexpected in view of the interconnected world that we live in,” said the regional director of the WHO South-East Asia region. “This emphasises the need for all countries to step up surveillance, to be on alert and rapidly detect any importation and take measures to curtail further spread of the virus. The response measures for all variants, including Omicron, is the same as those for SARS-CoV-2.”Dr Singh said that comprehensive, tailored public health and social measures by governments, and strict adherence to preventive and precautionary measures by individuals, is a must.“People must wear well-fitting mask which covers their nose and mouth well, keep distance, avoid poorly ventilated or crowded spaces, keep hands clean, cover cough and sneeze and get vaccinated,” she said. “And continue to take all precautionary measures even after getting vaccinated. All travellers must adhere to public health and social measures at all times and remain vigilant for signs and symptoms of Covid-19.”The WHO regional director pointed out that the Omicron variant of the coronavirus has a large of mutations, some of which are “concerning”. “Researchers around the world are conducting studies to better understand the transmissibility, severity and immune escape capabilities of Omicron,” she said. “WHO commends countries which have been able to quickly detect and report cases of the new Variant of Concern.”The Union health ministry on Thursday confirmed two cases of the Omicron variant of coronavirus. Two men from Karnataka, aged 66 and 46, tested positive for the variant on Wednesday, Lav Agarwal, joint secretary at the Union health ministry told reporters at a press briefing. The health ministry official also gave other information about the Omicron, which since its detection in southern Africa on November 24, has spread to 30 countries (India included).||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/omicron-alert-who-south-east-regional-director-advises-increased-surveillance-101638463227607.html
02-12-2021||India||Instead of travel bans, India is keeping ‘watch’ on ‘at risk’ nations: MEA as Omicron reaches country||Following the detection of Omicron Covid-19 variant in India, the Centre on Thursday said unlike several countries, India is keeping a “watch” on ‘at-risk’ nations and not imposing travel bans of flights from such regions.Addressing a weekly media briefing, ministry of external affairs (MEA) spokesperson Arindam Bagchi said that the situation pertaining to the discovery of Omicron Covid-19 variant is “evolving” and at the moment, India has “increased surveillance and protocols like testing and mandatory home quarantine,” instead of travel bans.Talking about the ‘at-risk’ countries, Bagchi said that the list is decided technically and is “not entirely” based on the Omicron situation as it was prepared prior to the Covid-19 variant’s emergence.The MEA spokesperson pointed out that India is “ready” to supply medical tools, and also offer cooperative and collaboration to any nation amid the Omicron Covid-19 variant’s threat, if one comes forward with such a request.Notably, India implemented revised travel guidelines starting December 1. According to these, all travellers arriving from ‘at risk’ countries have to mandatorily undergo RT-PCR testing upon arrival at the airport. If the result comes back as negative, he or she must compulsorily go through a seven-day quarantine period and take a retest on the eighth day. On the other hand, if the RT-PCR test report turns out to be positive, the sample will be sent for genome testing for detecting Omicron and the person will be treated at a separate isolation facility.Also Read | Don’t delay getting fully vaccinated: Centre after Omicron cases found in IndiaFor passengers coming from other non ‘at-risk’ nations, a random 2% of them will be selected for undergoing RT-PCR testing. If found negative, they will be have to self-monitor their health for 14 days and if the RT-PCR test report comes back as positive, the sample will be sent for genome testing to detect Omicron Covid-19 variant’s presence.Last month, India had expressed solidarity with the countries, especially in southern Africa, where Omicron Covid-19 variant cases have been confirmed. Earlier in the day, India also joined the list after two men aged 66 and 46 were found to be infected with the strain in Karnataka. Notably, the Omicron variant has been classified as a “variant of concern” by the World Health Organisation.At a press briefing earlier in the day, joint secretary of Union health ministry Lav Agarwal said that both the patients in Karnataka have mild symptoms. Karnataka health minister Dr K Sudhakar later informed media persons that as many as five contacts of the 46-year-old Omicron patient, who is a doctor, have been found to be Covid-19 positive.“A total of six people (including the doctor himself) have been isolated, [and] admitted to government hospital. None of them [are] showing serious symptoms. All these people (all six) are fully vaccinated,” Dr Sudhakar told news agency ANI.Also Read | All contacts of India’s 1st Omicron patient test negative, not so for 2nd patientHe further stated that the doctor doesn’t have any travel history, while the other 66-year-old Omicron patient is a South African national, who has gone back to his home country.With India’s confirmation, a total of 30 countries have now reported Omicron Covid-19 cases.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/india-is-keeping-watch-on-at-risk-nations-mea-as-omicron-reaches-country-101638463530724.html
02-12-2021||India||Attention invested has led to very impressive outcomes: Jaishankar on UAE||The United Arab Emirates (UAE) has emerged as one of India’s key partners in the extended neighbourhood as it very important for the country’s national security and is home to a large number of Indian expatriates, external affairs minister S Jaishankar said on Thursday. “This is certainly a relationship where...all the attention that we have invested, and they have invested, it has been repaid in very, very impressive outcomes,” Jaishankar said during a virtual conversation at the Hindustan Times Leadership Summit. In recent years, the Indian government has assiduously courted several key players in West Asia, including the UAE, Kuwait and Qatar, even as it has built up its strategic relationship with Israel. Efforts have been made to diversify relations with these countries from the traditional field of energy by adding new areas of cooperation. The UAE is home to more three million Indian expatriates, the largest ethnic community in the emirates comprising professionals and blue-collar workers and their families. Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s visit to the UAE in 2015 was the first by an Indian premier in 34 years, following a trip by Indira Gandhi in 1981. Jaishankar, who will travel to the UAE on December 4, said the country is important because it is a very big energy partner, has a large Indian expatriate population and a lot of offshore finance and business is done there. However, he noted that the UAE had “seriously suffered from a want of political attention” since the 1980s. He described it as one of the key countries in the extended neighbourhood, and said it is “enormously important” for national security, hugely relevant for economic growth, and is also extremely active in the international scene. The India-UAE relationship is a good example of the kind of things that have changed in the last few years, with New Delhi becoming more clear-headed about its priorities and the countries it should engage with to advance its interests, he said. Jaishankar added that the Abraham Accords signed by Israel and key Arab states such as the UAE had opened up possibilities in connectivity, logistics, trade, technology, innovation and agriculture. Instead of having only three separate relationships with countries such as the US, Israel and the UAE, India could also work with them through a collective to add an additional layer to do many more things, he said. West Asia is an example of the complex world that India operates in, and also how the country deals with partners with contradictory interests, he added. 
02-12-2021||India||‘Can’t have great relations with high friction border’: Jaishankar on China ties at HTLS 2021||NEW DELHI: India and China cannot simultaneously have a “tense, high friction border” and great relations in all other spheres, especially after Beijing violated clear cut commitments in two agreements on not massing forces on the frontier, external affairs minister S Jaishankar said on Thursday.Participating in a virtual conversation at the Hindustan Times Leadership Summit, Jaishankar listed India’s three top foreign policy priorities as focusing on countries in the extended neighbourhood, including Central and West Asia, good relations with big powers shaping the world order to advance the country’s interests, and developing a larger footprint for India.The challenges related to Afghanistan outlined in UN Security Council resolution 2593, which was passed two weeks after the Taliban takeover in mid-August, continue to be “live concerns” and justify the prudence displayed by India, which has been very careful in its assessments regarding the war-torn country, he said during a wide-ranging discussion.Jaishankar said two agreements with China contained no ambiguity on the issue of bringing forces to the border, as everything was laid down in “cold print”. He added, “There were very, very clear cut commitments not to mass forces on the border and those commitments stand violated as of 2020 spring.”He was referring to the standoff in the Ladakh sector of the Line of Actual Control (LAC), which began in May 2020. Bilateral relations are yet to recover from the fallout of a brutal clash at Galwan Valley in June last year that resulted in the death of 20 Indian soldiers and at least four Chinese troops. Both sides have deployed some 50,000 troops each in the sector and several rounds of diplomatic and military talks have not led to disengagement at all the friction points.Jaishankar said: “And as we have made clear – the state of the relationship, at the end of the day, will reflect the state of the border. You can’t have a tense, high friction border and have great relations in all other parts of life. It doesn’t work that way.”It was inevitable that the standoff has “already spilt over into other domains and the expectation that somehow we will contain it in a narrow sense and carry on with the rest of life, I think, is not a realistic one”, he added.“We do have a significant issue there for us, and also for them because I frankly don’t think it’s in the interest of either country that our relationship goes off in this direction,” Jaishankar said.The Chinese side attempted to “unilaterally change the status quo or to violate the LAC”, and troops from both sides were “sometimes uncomfortably closely deployed”. With the standoff in Ladakh continuing for close to two years, there are now question marks against the assumptions, understandings and agreements which guided the management of border areas, he added.Asked about his foreign policy priorities, the foreign secretary-turned-minister said in geographic terms, these are the extended neighbourhood, including the Indian Ocean, Southeast Asia, West Asia and Central Asia, having good relations with the big powers which shape the global order “so that we are treated well and our interests are recognised and advanced”, and steadily developing a larger footprint through more relationships in order to have global visibility.In terms of issues, Jaishankar listed his number one priority as national security, which he put above all considerations in diplomacy as the stakes are very high. He contended that the country “sometimes got confused” on this issue in the past, such as during the 1960s, when the leadership didn’t put the necessary emphasis on security.He listed the two other priorities in terms of issues as economic development and national progress, where India could learn from East and Southeast Asia on using foreign policy to acquire capital and technology, and advancing the standing of the country.While speaking about the situation in Afghanistan, Jaishankar said UN Security Council resolution 2593, passed two weeks after the Taliban takeover, was an “expression of a widespread concern in the world on a set of issues, the most prominent of which was would Afghan soil be used by terrorists [and] foreign fighters to target other countries”.The resolution also addresses issues such as the nature of the regime in Kabul and whether it would be inclusive, and the nature of governance, including the treatment of women, children and minorities, and freedom of movement for Afghans.“I would say a lot of those concerns...remain live concerns,” Jaishankar said. The situation on the ground is complicated and justifies the prudence that India has shown. India has not been in a hurry, it has been deliberative about choices and careful about assessments, while at the same time not being led by arguments made by others, he said.There is also consensus on the humanitarian situation in Afghanistan about not “staying away or being indifferent or unhelpful”. He said the consensus is that “however difficult the politics of the situation may be...we have to do something [for the Afghan people]”.India has helped previous regimes in Afghanistan, and it has offered to send 50,000 tonnes of wheat for the Afghan people. The country is seeking unhindered access to Afghanistan and ia trying to find a way the relief supplies are distributed in a responsible and fair manner, he said, without referring to conditions attached by Pakistan for the shipment of the aid.Jaishankar also indicated that the LAC standoff with China was not a “causal factor” for India’s participation in the Quadrilateral Security Dialogue or Quad, which includes Australia, Japan and the US. He noted that the Quad, in its current incarnation started in September 2017, whereas the current difficulties on the LAC began in 2020.It is important for India as a Quad participant “to be very clear that the Quad is for something, it is not against somebody”, he pointed out. Quad’s efforts are focused on issues such as Covid-19 vaccines, developing more trusted and secure technologies, promoting reliable and resilient supply chains, connectivity projects, and ensuring maritime security and safety.Since no single country can respond to the contemporary big challenges, groups of countries with similar interests and concerns were coming together, he said. In this context, he referred to India’s four-way cooperation with the United Arab Emirates, Israel and the US.These are “combos of countries” that are not interested in a formal relationship and wanting no “detailed obligations or responsibilities”. Instead, they want a practical arrangement to work together to their mutual advantage through “ad hoc, open minded, open ended and comfortable” mechanisms, Jaishankar said.Asked about India’s participation in The Summit of Democracy to be hosted by the US during December 9-10, Jaishankar said he is “very confident” about the state of Indian democracy since elections and the electoral process are not in doubt, popular participation in elections is rising, and all indexes of “how democratised India has become” are growing.“In a way, in the very success lies a problem because to a large extent it has brought to the political forefront a different set of players, people who are not from big cities or from English medium schools,” he said, adding many of these players are self-made and this has led to a “political argumentation between the old order and emerging order within the country”.“Because the world is globalised, the world is polarised and the world is very ideological, a lot of this translates into people being judgemental [and saying] your democracy is not working well, largely because it’s not about people like us anymore,” he added.
02-12-2021||India||Eye on polls, Priyanka assures waiver of farm loan, dues for sugarcane farmers||Congress leader Priyanka Gandhi on Thursday made several promises in the run-up to the Uttar Pradesh legislative assembly elections, scheduled for the next year. Priyanka Gandhi said the Congress will give 2 million jobs and said that every district will have a manufacturing hub.“Congress will contest elections on the basis of development. Will provide 20 lakh jobs. Manufacturing hubs will open in every district,” Priyanka was quoted as saying by news agency ANI. She was addressing the Pratigya Rally in Uttar Pradesh’s Moradabad.She also slammed the Prime Minister and said that he did not show respect towards the farmers who died during the agitation against the now-repealed legislations that were introduced in Parliament’s Monsoon Session in 2020.“The PM didn't pay any respect to farmers who died in agitation against farm laws. It will take only ₹4,000 crore for clearing all dues of sugarcane farmers. Modi bought private aircraft for ₹8,000 crore last year amid Covid-19 pandemic. The Centre is paying ₹20,000 crore for beautification of Parliament but doesn't have the money to clear your dues,” Priyanka said attacking the Centre and the Yogi-led government.Priyanka Gandhi also criticized the government over the issue of farmers’ struggling to get access to fertilizers ahead of winter sowing season. Farmers from different parts of the country have alleged that they are having to buy key crop nutrients, especially DAP (diammonium phosphate) and muriate of potash (MPO), have hit a five-year low, at higher prices, according to a HT report. The DAP is an essential nutrient for the winter-sown wheat. Another report by HT also said that one farmer died as he was waiting in a queue to procure fertiliser in Uttar Pradesh’s Lalitpur earlier in October.“Farmers are committing suicide due to acute shortage of fertilizers. I met family members of two deceased farmers. We will buy paddy and wheat from farmers at ₹2500 per quintal, and sugarcane at ₹400 per quintal. We will waive loans of farmers,” Priyanka further added.--||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/eye-on-polls-priyanka-assures-waiver-of-farm-loan-dues-for-sugarcane-farmers-101638459507629.html
02-12-2021||India||News updates from HT: Goa Forward MLA gets notice over claims of joining BJP and all the latest news||Here are today’s top news, analysis, and opinion. Know all about the latest news and other news updates from Hindustan Times.Goa Forward MLA who skipped meeting with Rahul Gandhi may join BJP, gets noticeGoa Forward Party (GFP), the Vijai Sardesai-led party that is teaming up with the Congress for the 2022 Goa elections, on Thursday issued show-cause notice to legislator Jayesh Salgaocar to explain why he hadn’t rebutted claims that he is headed to join the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP). Read more.Don’t delay getting fully vaccinated: Centre after Omicron cases found in IndiaThe Centre on Thursday asked Indians not to delay getting fully jabbed with Covid-19 vaccine after two cases of the Omicron variant were detected in the country. Read more.India reiterates Pakistan should not attach conditions to shipping aid to AfghanistanIndia said on Thursday it is still engaged in discussions with Pakistan to work out modalities for supplying life-saving medicines and 50,000 tonnes of wheat to Afghanistan but insisted that no conditions should be attached to the shipment of relief materials. Read more.'Modi's informer': Adhir Ranjan slams Mamata after 'there is no UPA' barbA day after West Bengal chief minister Mamata Banerjee remarked "there is no UPA" following her meeting with Nationalist Congress Party chief Sharad Pawar, the Congress on Thursday launched an all-out attack against her. Read more.'Pujara and Rahane have been as bad as each other. Would leave them both out': Harmison wants another debutant for IndiaFormer England fast bowler Steve Harmison has weighed in on India's potential team combination for the second New Zealand Test, and said that if it was up to him, he would drop both Cheteshwar Pujara and Ajinkya Rahane from the XI. Read more.Kapil Dev says Deepika Padukone as Romi Bhatia in 83 trailer got 'mixed' reactions from his familyThe trailer for Ranveer Singh's 83 was launched earlier this week. Read more.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/news-updates-from-ht-goa-forward-mla-gets-notice-over-claims-of-joining-bjp-101638457397447.html
02-12-2021||India||Maharashtra amends travel rules for international passengers after Centre's objection. Check details||The Maharashtra government on Thursday issued a set of fresh guidelines for international passengers arriving in the state amid concerns over Coronavirus' new variant, Omicron.The revised guidelines came a day after the Centre wrote to the state saying its order on travel rules was in divergence with the Covid-19 guidelines issued by the Union ministry of health and family welfare.Responding to the same, the Maharashtra government today amended its air travel rules making seven-day institutional quarantine mandatory for passengers from only three countries -- South Africa, Botswana and Zimbabwe.However, categorisation of 'high-risk countries" is a dynamic exercise based on the evolving situation of the Omicron variant and hence will be updated as required by Government of Maharashtra, the state government said in its guidelines.#Omicron | Govt of Maharashtra revises its guidelines for passengers arriving in the stateIn the case of domestic air travel, Passengers will either have to be fully vaccinated or compulsorily carry RT-PCR Test certificate showing negative result within 72 hours before boarding pic.twitter.com/svHb56CHe8The state government's November 30 order had made institutional quarantine mandatory for passengers arriving from all `at risk' countries in the central government's list in view of the Omicron variant threat.Besides, the state has removed the rule that mandated negative RT-PCR test reports for fliers coming into Maharashtra from other states. Instead, passengers will either have to be fully vaccinated or carry an RT-PCR negative report within 72 hours before boarding.Notably, the 'at-risk' list issued by the Centre includes a number of countries including, The United Kingdom, South Africa, Brazil, Botswana, China and Mauritius, New Zealand, Zimbabwe, Singapore, Hong Kong among others.The new variant was first detected in South Africa last month, and many countries including, the United Kingdom, the US, Germany, have reported cases of the new strain since. India too confirmed two cases of the Omicron variant of coronavirus, identified in two men from Karnataka, on Thursday.The World Health Organization (WHO) has said that most of the cases outside Africa are travel-related even as it expects local transmission in other countries as more information becomes available.(With agency inputs)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/maharashtra-amends-travel-rules-for-international-passengers-after-centre-s-objection-check-details-101638455883552.html
02-12-2021||India||Parliament passes Dam Safety Bill to prevent disasters||The Parliament on Thursday passed a bill to prevent dam disasters through regular surveillance, inspection, operation and maintenance, with Rajya Sabha approving the legislation amid several Opposition parties calling it an assault on federalism and demanding that the bill be sent to the select committee for scrutiny. Lok Sabha had passed the Dam Safety Bill, 2019, which seeks to provide a robust legal and institutional framework for ensuring the safety of dams, in August 2019. The Upper House passed the bill by voice vote even as a motion to send it to the select committee of the house was defeated with 80 lawmakers voting against it and 26 in favour. Responding to a discussion on the bill in which 22 MPs took part, Union minister of Jal Shakti Gajendra Singh Shekhawat alleviated the concerns of several opposition MPs that the Centre’s intention was to encroach on the powers of state governments, saying the government followed the principle of cooperative federalism in its working. Several parties, including the Congress, Trinamool Congress, DMK, CPI (M) and RJD, accused the government of usurping the powers of state governments as dams were a state subject and the Centre could not make rules for the states. Stressing on the need for a country-wide protocol for dam safety, Shekhawat said the government sought the solicitor general’s advice before bringing the bill and the legal opinion was that the government could legislate on dam safety under the relevant Constitutional provisions.The minister recounted several recent dam disasters and the destruction of lives and property caused by the incidents, adding that the dam safety law was essential to protect the country, its citizens and the riverine ecosystem. The bill addresses issues encompassing regular inspection of dams, emergency action plans, comprehensive dam safety review, instrumentation and safety manuals. It also fixes accountability for dam safety on the dam owner and provides for penal provisions for commission and omission of certain acts. It also lays down owners of dams will have to earmark sufficient funds for maintenance. Earlier taking part in the discussion on the bill, Congress MP Shaktisinh Gohil said the government had no right to legislate on a state subject and the bill was against the provisions of the Constitution. RJD MP Manoj Kumar Jha said that the government was always trying to encroach on state subjects and violating the principle of federalism, even as he demanded that bill be sent to the select committee.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/parliament-passes-dam-safety-bill-to-prevent-disasters-101638456100702.html
02-12-2021||India||Goa Forward MLA who skipped meeting with Rahul Gandhi may join BJP, gets notice||PANAJI: Goa Forward Party (GFP), the Vijai Sardesai-led party that is teaming up with the Congress for the 2022 Goa elections, on Thursday issued show-cause notice to legislator Jayesh Salgaocar to explain why he hadn’t rebutted claims that he is headed to join the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP).Jayesh Salgaocar, one of GFP’s three lawmakers in the assembly, did not travel to Delhi with party chief Vijai Sardesai and legislator Vinoda Paliencar to meet Congress leader Rahul Gandhi on Tuesday. It was after this meeting that Sardesai announced his plans to ally with the Congress.The GFP show-cause notice asked Salgaocar to explain his silence after a BJP MLA, without naming him, claimed that he will join the BJP.“The Panaji BJP MLA (Atanasio Monserrate) made clear remarks to the media that one of the Goa Forward MLAs who was missing during the trip to Delhi to meet Rahul Gandhi is soon going to embrace the BJP. In spite of this news going viral, there was no denial or clarification from your side,” the notice said.Also Read: Rahul Gandhi’s group photo signals a new Goa alliance. It also hurts the TMCIt added that his conduct during the last few months indicated that he intended to work with the BJP for personal gains and compromise the values and policies of the party. “These repeated acts of yours clearly indicate that you are involved in unpardonable anti-party activities. You are hereby directed to respond to this show cause notice within 24 hours failing which disciplinary action would be initiated against you without any further notice,” the GFP notice to Jayesh Salgaocar, the Saligao legislator, said.Like his party boss, Vijai Sardesai was once part of the Congress before he switched over to the Goa Forward Party ahead of the 2017 goa elections. He defeated Dilip Parulekar, who was the state’s tourism minister in the outgoing Laxmikant Parsekar cabinet.Salgaocar has been widely perceived to have been to exit the Goa Forward Party ahead of next year’s elections.To be sure, Goa BJP president Sadanand Shet Tanavade claimed that he was “not aware” if any leader is scheduled to join the party. “If there is any announcement to make, we will notify you,” Tanavade said in response to questions about Salgaocar’s entry.Vijai Sardesai’s decision to fight alongside the Congress after his meeting with Rahul Gandhi was a surprise, particularly since he was working to align his party with the Trinamool Congress during West Bengal chief minister Mamata Banerjee’s visit to the state.To be sure, Sardesai did fight the 2017 elections in partnership with the Congress when his party won three of the four seats it contested. But after the results were out, he negotiated a deal with the BJP that enabled Manohar Parrikar to form the government. In exchange, Sardesai became Goa’s deputy chief minister; his two MLAs also got ministerial berths.The three GFP lawmakers, however, were evicted from the Goa cabinet in July 2019 by chief minister Pramod Sawant after 10 Congress MLAs en masse switched to the BJP, and he did not need the party’s support. Sardesai withdrew support from the Sawant-led government but stayed put in the NDA till April this year.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/goa-forward-mla-who-skipped-meeting-with-rahul-gandhi-may-join-bjp-gets-notice-101638455322204.html
02-12-2021||India||HT THIS DAY: December 3, 1989 — VP Singh sworn in as 7th PM of India, Devi Lal is Deputy||New Delhi- Mr. Vishwanath Pratap Singh, leader of the National Front Parliamentary Party, was sworn in as the seventh Prime Minister of India by President R. Venkataraman in the Ashoka Hall of the Rashtrapati Bhavan at 12.15 this afternoon, amidst scenes of wild enthusiasm and much goodwill from all present on the occasion. The new Prime Minister sprang a surprise by naming Mr. Devi Lal, the Haryana Chief Minister, as the Deputy Prime Minister, who was the only other member of the Union Council of Ministers to take oath today (December 2).Both of them took oath in Hindi, with the President first reading the text of the oath in that language, apparently written in the Roman alphabet. The entire assembly at the somewhat small Ashoka Hall, jostling and sweating because of the unprecedented influx of media persons in particular, greeted the two leaders of the new Government with clappings. The ceremony was watched by Vice President Shankar Daval Sharma, former Prime Minister Rajiv Gandhi, his erstwhile Cabinet colleagues, National Front chairman N. T Rama Rao, West Bengal Chief Minister Jyoti Basu, Karnataka Chief Minister Veerendra Patil, BJP leaders Atal Behari Vajpayee and L. K Advani, CPI-M general secretary F M. S. Namboodiripad, CPI general secretary C. Rajeshwar Rao and a large number of leaders of political parties as also newly-elected Members from the non-Congress-I parties. Mrs. Najma Heptullah, Deputy Chairman of the Rajya Sabha, was also present. The Prime Minister, who was mobbed by media persons after the ceremony was over in less than 10 minutes, said he would form the Cabinet within two or three days. In reply to another question, he said he would call Parliament before the specified period of 30 days to prove his majority in the Lok Sabha. He did not however, mention any date as such.The swearing in of Mr V. P Singh as the Prime Minister ends the nearly 10-year-long Congress-1 rule at the Centre, which began on Jan. 15, 1980 when the Congress-I party was returned to power with a huge majority in the 1979 December elections, under the leadership of Mrs Indira Gandhi unseating the Janata Party-S Government led by Mr Charan Singh. The 58-year-old Mr Singh, looking younger than his age, was clad in an achkan and pyjama and a Kashmiri cap on his head, a familiar sight in winter. His wife, Mrs Sita Kumari Devi, and son Ajeya Singh accompanied by his wife also watched the ceremony.The National Front Prime Minister put up with the jostling and pushing at the adjacent hall where refreshments were served, but for at Icast one hour after the ceremony, mediapersons went on mobbing him and shooting all sorts of questions which he answered with characteristic grace and candour. Also to be mobbed in the hall were Mr Rajiv Gandhi, Mr Buta Singh Mr Atal Behari Vajpayee, Mr L. K. Advani, cinestars Shatrughan Sinha and Raj Babbar, the last two had canvassed extensively for the former Opposition parties.Mr Singh exchanged greetings with Mr Gandhi and leaders of his party and of other friendly parties and spent time with the President and the Vice President as also with BJP leader Atal Behari Vajpayee. But most of his time was taken up with the mediapersons whom the security staff failed to keep away from the new Prime Minister. Mr V. P Singh is the eighth Prime Minister of India, taking Mrs Gandhi’s continuous terms of 1966-1977 and 1980-84 as two separate regimes. He is the third non-Congress-I Prime Minister, the other two being Mr Morarji Desai, who was in office from March 1977 to July 1979, and Mr Charan Singh, who remained in office from August 1979 to early January 1980. Mr Gulzarilal Nanda had acted as the Prime Minister on two occasions - in May 1964, when Prime Minister Jawaharlal Nehru had passed away and again in 1966 when Mr Lal Bahadur Shastri had suddenly died at Tashkent in the Soviet Union on Jan. 11. Incidentally, all these leaders were originally Congressmen and the three non-Congress-I Prime Ministers had left the party or were expelled under various circumstances. Only two of them, Mr Desai and Mr Nanda, were from outside Uttar Pradesh. Mr Singh does not have balmy days awaiting him in the weeks to come. For one thing, his Cabinet is not yet complete and it is still an open question if the parties supporting the National Front Government - the BJP and the Left parties - will join the Government. For another, Punjab problem still stares him in his face, and the price situation too is not something that can be swept under the carpet. Mr Singh is believed to have gone into a conclave with party colleagues to tackle the problem of Cabinet formation, which by all expectations should be completed on Monday. It is not known what surprises he may spring that day like the one he did today by nominating ‘Tau” Devi Lal as the Deputy Prime Minister. It is not known if he would appoint another Deputy Prime Minister too, just as Mr Desai had with him Mr Jagjivan Ram and Mr Charan Singh. The latter had made Mr Yeshwantrao Chavan as the Deputy Prime Minister in the Janata Party-S and Congress-S coalition government which was in office till January 1980. As already mentioned, this is independent India’s first multi-party National Government at the Centre and even with all goodwill for the new government, people at large are apprehensive about this experiment but want it nevertheless to succeed unlike in 1977 when the Morarji Desai Government was brought down by people belonging to his own party. That the task of Mr Singh will be an onerous one was indicated by the absence of Mr Chandra Shekhar from the swearing-m ceremony this afternoon. The “young Turk leader of yesteryears had not been too happy with the election of Mr V. P. Singh as the Prime Minister and he had, it must he admitted, made his views known publicly. That the possibility of the BJP and the Left joining the ministry was still an open issue was indicated by Mr Singh’s reply to one question in the presence of Mr Vajpayce. he told a reporter that the formation of the government had only entered the first stage today, and questions about the second had to be awaited. Mr Vapayee. the popular leader with the media, ducked and stepped backward all smiles when another questioner asked what portfolio the B)P leader would be given when he joined the V. P Singh ministry. The elevation of Mr Devi Lal to the post of Deputy Prime Ministership was seen as an expression of gratitude to him by Mr Singh, but it has its own political compulsion too. One of this b the fact that Mr Chandra Shekhar had proposed the Haryana Chief Minister’s name yesterday for the leadership of the parliamentary party. To that extent, it may be an attempt to mollify Mr Chandra Shekhar.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/ht-this-day-december-3-1989-vp-singh-sworn-in-as-7th-pm-of-india-devi-lal-is-deputy-101638454721333.html
02-12-2021||India||Don’t delay getting fully vaccinated: Centre after Omicron cases found in India||The Centre on Thursday asked Indians not to delay getting fully jabbed with Covid-19 vaccine after two cases of the Omicron variant were detected in the country. “Increased vaccine uptake is the need of the hour,” Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR) director general Balram Bhargava said during a press briefing.He added that adhering to Covid-19 appropriate behaviour is also a key measure that individuals must follow in order to keep the Omicron variant from spreading any further in the country. Bhargava pointed out that awareness is “absolutely essential,” but asked people not to panic.The ICMR chief pointed out that not attending as well as organising mass gatherings will help in “breaking the chain of transmission of Omicron.”India has now become the 30th country to have confirmed the presence of Omicron Covid-19 variant, which was first discovered in South Africa last month. Both cases have been detected in Karnataka, with two males aged 66 and 46, testing positive for the variant.The confirmation of Omicron cases in India arrived earlier in the day following genome sequencing results from a laboratory under the INSACOG consortium. Joint secretary of Union health ministry, Lav Agarwal said during the press briefing that all primary and secondary contacts of both the males have been identified and are under isolation.Though the Centre refrained from providing more information about the two positive males from Karnataka, a report by Hindustan Times stated that both had travelled to South Africa.Meanwhile, Dr VK Paul, member (health), NITI Aayog said that the detection of Omicron Covid-19 variant through genome sequencing proves that the existing screening systems are “working well.” However, he sidetracked any discussion on Covid-19 booster shots at the moment, saying that the Centre’s focus is to fully vaccinate all adults in India first.Also Read | Omicron makes its way to India. What we know about the 2 cases from Karnataka“Currently, let’s be very clear, our priority is very clear – complete the task of vaccinating all adults with both doses,” Dr Paul said, adding that “scientific reasoning” for offering Covid-19 booster shots and the nitty-gritties associated with it are “under examination.”Agarwal highlighted that both the patients of Omicron Covid-19 variant in Karnataka have mild symptoms so far, and such is the trend noticed not just in India but in all such cases across the world too. “[The] WHO has said that its emerging evidence is being studied,” he informed the press briefing.Notably, India on Wednesday deferred the resumption of international flights from December 15 onwards in view of the emergence of Omicron Covid-19 variant.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/dont-delay-getting-fully-vaccinated-centre-after-omicron-cases-found-in-india-101638452288600.html
02-12-2021||India||India, Bangladesh to observe Maitri Divas on December 6||India and Bangladesh will jointly observe Maitri Divas or friendship day on December 6 in Dhaka and New Delhi and 18 countries around the world, including Russia, Saudi Arabia and the US. The two countries had decided during Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s visit to Bangladesh in March to commemorate December 6 as Maitri Divas as it was on this day in 1971 that India recognised the new country. This was done 10 days before the liberation of Bangladesh and India was one of the first countries to establish diplomatic ties with Bangladesh, external affairs ministry spokesperson Arindam Bagchi told a regular news briefing. Besides being commemorated in Dhaka and New Delhi, Maitri Divas will be observed jointly by the two countries through events to be held in Belgium, Canada, Egypt, Indonesia, Russia, Qatar, Singapore, the UK, Australia, France, Japan, Malaysia, Saudi Arabia, South Africa, Switzerland, Thailand, the United Arab Emirates, the US. A special event will be organised in New Delhi with the participation of both countries, Bagchi said. “The holding of Maitri Divas is a reflection of the deep and abiding friendship between the people of India and Bangladesh that has been forged in blood and shared sacrifices,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/india-bangladesh-to-observe-maitri-divas-on-december-6-101638453040555.html
02-12-2021||India||India reiterates Pakistan should not attach conditions to shipping aid to Afghanistan||India said on Thursday it is still engaged in discussions with Pakistan to work out modalities for supplying life-saving medicines and 50,000 tonnes of wheat to Afghanistan but insisted that no conditions should be attached to the shipment of relief materials. At the same time, India continues to be part of discussions on Afghanistan with various countries in different formats, external affairs ministry spokesperson Arindam Bagchi told a regular news briefing. Pakistan has linked its decision to allow India to transport the wheat and medicines as humanitarian aid to Afghanistan to the condition that relief materials be moved only by Pakistani trucks. The two sides have been engaged in discussions since last week to find a solution to the impasse in view of the looming humanitarian crisis in Afghanistan. India made the proposal for shipping the wheat and medicines to the Afghan people via Pakistani soil on October 7, and received a response from the Pakistan government only on November 24, Bagchi said. “Since then, we have had discussions with Pakistan on the modalities of this supply. These discussions are ongoing. Let me reiterate our belief that humanitarian assistance should not be subject to conditionalities,” he said. The modalities being worked out by the two sides will cover various issues, Bagchi said without going into details. The Indian side is keen on using its own trucks as it wants to ensure the relief materials directly reach the Afghan people without being diverted. The Indian side also envisages the aid will be distributed only through the UN, people familiar with the matter said on condition of anonymity. Bagchi said the meeting of senior security officials of regional countries, including Iran and Russia, that was hosted by India last month had offered an opportunity for nations with similar perspectives to share views, exchange ideas and “identify from a security perspective what is the way forward” in Afghanistan. “Issues were identified and India continues to be a part of discussions on Afghanistan with various countries in different formats,” he added. India and the world community’s expectations regarding Afghanistan are clearly outlined in UN Security Council resolution 2593, he said. This resolution, adopted in August, states that efforts should be made to form an inclusive government in Kabul and that Afghan soil should not be used to plan or execute terror attacks against any country. 
02-12-2021||India||'Modi's informer': Adhir Ranjan Chowdhury slams Mamata after 'there is no UPA' barb||A day after West Bengal chief minister Mamata Banerjee remarked "there is no UPA" following her meeting with Nationalist Congress Party chief Sharad Pawar, the Congress on Thursday launched an all-out attack against her.Adhir Ranjan Chowdhury, who is the president of the West Bengal Congress Committee (WBCC), has alleged that Mamata Banerjee “wants to break and weaken” the Congress as well as the opposition by “becoming Prime Minister Narendra Modi's informer”.He further slammed Banerjee saying she was more interested in praising her nephew, referring to Abhishek Banerjee, a Trinamool Congress leader, who is also an MP from Diamond Harbour constituency in West Bengal.Also read | ‘UPA will be a body without…’: Kapil Sibal replies to Mamata's ‘what is UPA’“She doesn’t know how to respect the national anthem. Congress is a national party and that is how it approaches issues in different states,” news agency ANI quoted Chowdhury as saying.“20% of popular votes are with Congress while TMC is having only 4% popular votes. Can you fight Modi without this share of 20% votes? She wants to break and weaken Congress and Opposition by becoming Modi’s informer,” he added.Earlier, Adhir Ranjan Chowdhury termed the meeting between Mamata Banerjee and Sharad Pawar as a "premeditated conspiracy" to weaken the grand old party and alleged the TMC chief had become "BJP's oxygen supplier.""What is UPA? There is no UPA," remarked Mamata Banerjee on Wednesday after meeting Sharad Pawar, an ally of Congress in Maharashtra. She made the statement during her three-day visit to Maharashtra's capital city during which she planned meetings with leaders of the NCP and Shiv Sena.Notably, the Trinamool Congress was once part of the UPA or United Progressive Alliance, an alliance of several parties including Congress that remained in power at the Centre for 10 years from 2004 to 2014 when the BJP came to power.Mamata has been continuously pitching for a strong alternative at the national level to take on the BJP, but indirectly attacking Congress.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/modis-informer-adhir-ranjan-chowdhury-slams-mamata-after-there-is-no-upa-barb-101638449589046.html
02-12-2021||India||AAP’s ex-social media head Ankit Lal to help Congress in Uttarakhand polls||NEW DELHI: Ankit Lal, Aam Aadmi Party’s (AAP) former social media head, has been hired by the Congress to be a part of its campaign strategy team for the Uttarakhand Assembly elections scheduled early next year, people familiar with the matter said.Lal handled social media for the Arvind Kejriwal-led AAP for eight years between 2012 and 2020 and was credited with running the party’s successful social media campaigns for the 2013, 2015 and 2020 assembly elections in Delhi.The engineer-turned social media manager dropped out of his role in Kejriwal’s party after the 2020 assembly elections to start his own venture in political consultancy.“I don’t want to comment on that until unless it comes through the party’s media department,” Lal said, declining to comment on his new role in the Congress for the Uttarakhand elections where the Aam Aadmi Party will also be competing for seats in the 70-member assembly.Senior Congress members, however, confirmed that he is being taken on board.Rohan Gupta, head of Congress’s social media department, said: “Lal, in all likelihood, is being hired as part of the team for overall political campaign strategy, not just social media”.Gupta underlined that the Congress’s social media campaign is being handled by people from within the party.“Our social media reach has already surpassed that of the BJP and AAP in Uttarakhand. Recently, we launched the Uttarakhand ki awaaz (Uttarakhand’s voice) campaign to crowdsource ideas for the party’s election manifesto. We are also creating WhatsApp groups for all the proposed candidates and reaching out to people in each constituency through these groups,” he said.Over the past few months, Lal has been associated with the political strategy for Rashtriya Lok Dal (RLD) in the run-up to the Uttar Pradesh election. Prior to that, he also was part of the campaign strategy team for the Janata Dal (United) for the Bihar elections in November last year, a person aware of the matter said.
02-12-2021||India||Omicron 5 times more infectious, mask universal vaccine: 10 points from health ministry briefing||The Union health ministry on Thursday confirmed two cases of the Omicron variant of coronavirus. Two men from Karnataka, aged 66 and 46, tested positive for the variant on Wednesday, Lav Agarwal, joint secretary at the Union health ministry told reporters at a press briefing.He also said that all their primary and secondary contacts have been identified and are under isolation.The health ministry official also gave other information about the Omicron, which since its detection in southern Africa on November 24, has spread to 30 countries (India included).Here are the updates about Omicron and the spread of Covid-19 as informed by the health ministry today:• As on December 1, 375 (two of India’s cases included) cases of the Omicron variant have been found across the world.• The Omicron variant is possibly five times more infectious, and has increased transmissibility.• “We should strictly continue to follow Covid appropriate behavior as a counter measure to protect ourselves from Omicron variant too,” said Agarwal.• “Not fear but responsibility is the mantra we will take forward to face the challenges posed by Omicron. We will face the threats with science-driven, experience-driven, preparedness-driven approach,” said Niti Aayog member Dr VK Paul.• 'Mask' is the universal vaccine which will protect you from any variant from entering your body, Dr Paul further said.• Delta variant has been dominant in India since April 2021.• A surge in Covid-19 cases have been noted globally. Seventy per cent of these have come from Europe.• The South East Asian region, including India, reported only 3.1 per cent of world's Covid-19 cases in last one week.• Eighteen districts in India are reporting a weekly Covid-19 positivity between 5 to 10 per cent. Fifteen districts are reporting more than 10 per cent Covid-19 positivity, on a weekly basis.• Around 49 per cent of adult population in India has been completely vaccinated with two doses of Covid-19 vaccine.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/omicron-5-times-more-infectious-mask-universal-vaccine-health-ministry-101638447853487.html
02-12-2021||India||Omicron variant: At least 375 cases, now in 30 countries. Here's a list||The Omicron variant of the coronavirus disease (Covid-19), deemed highly contagious and capable of undergoing frequent mutations, has now made its way to India as the Union health ministry informed on Thursday that two people from Karnataka have tested positive. These are the first cases of the fast-spreading virus to be reported in India.Also Read | Omicron variant detected in India, two positive cases in KarnatakaAccording to the list shared by the Union health ministry officials on Thursday, the Omicron variant has now been detected in at least 375 cases in 30 countries, including the two cases reported in India.Here's a list of countries where the Omicron variant has now made its way to:The Omicron variant was first detected in southern Africa and since then has spread to 30 countries, the health ministry official informed earlier in the day (India is the 30th country). The Indian government has already implemented strict measures for international travellers to check the spread of the new strain. Those measures have come into effect from Wednesday.Notably, India was set to restart scheduled commercial international flights on December 15, but on Wednesday scrapped that plan and said a resumption date would be announced in due course. The government has advised states to ramp up testing, a week after the health ministry said a recent fall in testing could undermine India's efforts to contain the pandemic.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/omicron-variant-at-least-375-cases-now-in-30-countries-here-s-a-list-101638435616102.html
02-12-2021||India||‘India to have nine nuclear reactors by 2024’: Govt informs Rajya Sabha||India will have nine nuclear reactors by the year 2024. This Minister of state for personnel, public grievances and pensions Jitendra Singh said this in the Rajya Sabha today on behalf of the Centre.He also said that a new nuclear project, the first in northern India, will come up 150 kilometres away from Delhi, in Haryana's Gorakhpur."By 2024 you will have nine nuclear reactors plus 12 new additional ones which were approved during the Covid times with a capacity of 9000 MW. Five new sites are also being identified in different parts of the country," the minister said.He was replying to the supplementary questions during the Question Hour.Asked whether the government is thinking of phasing out nuclear power plants on account of safety, the minister said, "We have not only increased the number but are also trying to make a pan-India generation project."The minister said that nuclear energy will soon emerge as one of the most important sources of alternative or clean energy for the increasing power demand of the country.Singh said it was during the tenure of this government that a bulk approval of 10 indigenous reactors was done in a single cabinet decision, which is a record in itself and has never happened in the history of independent India.On the expansion of Kudankulan nuclear plant, the minister said that "hopefully in 2021, we plan to start the construction of unit 5 and unit 6 as well."India is counting on its nuclear program to help meet its Paris climate commitments to reduce the emissions intensity of its economy by a third from 2005 levels by 2030.India has 6.8 gigawatts of existing nuclear generation capacity, which accounts for roughly 2 per cent of the nation’s total capacity. Coal-fired generation makes up about 53 per cent of India’s installed base, although its share has been declining in favour of cleaner generation and renewable power.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/india-to-have-nine-nuclear-reactors-by-2024-govt-informs-rajya-sabha-101638446023319.html
02-12-2021||India||India’s first Omicron cases detected in Karnataka||Two men in Karnataka have tested positive for the Omicron variant of the coronavirus, the union health ministry said on Thursday. They are the country’s first cases of the new variant of concern.“Two cases of Omicron have been found positive: a 66-year-old male, and a 46-year-old male. We got the results very late last night,” Lav Agarwal, joint secretary at the union ministry of health and family welfare, told reporters. “All primary and secondary contacts have been identified and are under isolation.”The confirmation came after genome sequencing results returned from a laboratory under the INSACOG.While Agarwal refused to divulge any more details about the two positive cases, it is learnt that both men had travelled to South Africa where the new variant of concern (VOC) was first identified.“The detection of Omicron demonstrates that the screening systems are there and the systems are working well. As for the clinical implications or severity of the variant, it is still being studied,” said Vinod Paul, member (health) at NITI Aayog.The World Health Organization (WHO) labelled Omicron a VOC last Friday, and the UN health body suggested that preliminary evidence found an increased risk of re-infection with this variant, as compared to other variants of concern.The new variant is known to be heavily mutated, with up to 30 mutations observed in the spike protein.The number of people testing positive for the Omicron variant of Covid-19 has been rising fast across the world after it was first detected in South Africa.
02-12-2021||India||Omicron makes its way to India. What we know about the 2 cases from Karnataka||The Omicron variant of the coronavirus, deemed highly contagious and capable of undergoing frequent mutations, has now made its way to India as the Union health ministry informed on Thursday that two people from Karnataka have tested positive. Speaking on the matter, the health ministry's joint secretary Lav Agarwal told a news briefing that the patients have not reported any severe symptoms so far. Meanwhile, all immediate contacts of the individuals, at risk of being infected with the Covid-19 variant, have already been identified and are currently being monitored, Agarwal added.Also Read | Omicron variant detected in India, two positive cases in Karnataka“All primary contacts and secondary contacts of both the cases have been traced and are being tested,” the health ministry official was quoted as saying.Agarwal, without divulging additional details about the two cases due to privacy reasons, confirmed that both the Omicron-related cases were found to display mild symptoms so far. “In all such cases in the country and across the world so far, no severe symptom has been noted,” he said, adding, “The World Health Organization (WHO) has said that its emerging evidence is being studied.”Although no details are currently available on the vaccination status of the individuals who tested positive for the Omicron variant from Karnataka, NITI Aayog member VK Paul – who was also present at the news briefing – urged citizens to not delay their vaccinations. “Increased Covid-19 vaccine uptake is the need of the hour, do not delay in getting fully vaccinated,” the official said.Also Read | Will Omicron be as deadly as Delta? Virologist on symptoms, prevention and more“The Omicron variant of Covid-19 is being carefully examined,” he added. “We will take decisions on the basis of it as it is an ongoing discussion within our technical and scientific circle.”Moreover, the health ministry officials confirmed that there are currently no plans of reimposing any nationwide lockdown once again over the emergent variant of the coronavirus. Urging citizens not to panic, they stressed that getting a necessary section of the populace fully vaccinated is the present goal of the government.Notably, India was set to restart scheduled commercial international flights on December 15, but on Wednesday scrapped that plan and said a resumption date would be announced in due course. The government has advised states to ramp up testing, a week after the health ministry said a recent fall in testing could undermine India's efforts to contain the pandemic.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/omicron-makes-its-way-to-india-what-we-know-about-the-2-cases-from-karnataka-101638443715101.html
02-12-2021||India||India sent air bubble proposals to 10 more countries: Jyotiraditya Scindia||Saudi Arabia is among 10 more countries that India has proposed air bubble agreements with and was waiting to hear from them over it, civil aviation minister Jyotiraditya Scindia told Parliament on Thursday.“We have 10 proposals pending for air bubble agreements. We have forwarded the proposals to these countries. Saudi Arabia is one of them,” he said in response to Indian Union Muslim League member E T Mohammed Basheer’s question in Lok Sabha.Saudi Arabia hosts one of the largest Indian expatriate populations of about 2.6 million. India has signed air bubble agreements with 31 countries since commercial international flights were suspended due to the Covid-19 pandemic in March 2020.The Directorate General of Civil Aviation on Wednesday postponed the full resumption of international passenger flight services from December 15, citing the threat from the Omicron variant of concern (VOC) of Covid-19.Also Read: Omicron variant detected in India, two positive cases in KarnatakaSeveral countries have imposed travel bans on people who have visited countries with confirmed cases of the VOC. Some have even shut their borders to all foreign arrivals.VK Singh, the minister of state for civil aviation, separately told Parliament that 7,900 employees in domestic aviation lost jobs from March 2020 to February 2021 due to the pandemic. In response to a question from Biju Janta Dal’s Bhartruhari Mahtab, Singh also said the Airports Authority of India is working on a biometric boarding system as part of the first phase of Digi Yatra Implementation at Varanasi, Pune, Kolkata, and Vijayawada airports from March. He added the facial recognition technology for the purpose is yet to be introduced.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/india-sent-air-bubble-proposals-to-10-more-countries-jyotiraditya-scindia-101638444742744.html
02-12-2021||India||News updates from HT: BMC proposes institutional quarantine amid Omicron scare and all the latest news||Here are today’s top news, analysis and opinion. Know all about the latest news and other news updates from Hindustan Times.BMC proposes institutional quarantine for flyers from 6 ‘ultra risk’ countries, not allThere has been no word from the Maharashtra government on its decision on the BMC proposal, and no order has been issued yet that classifies the six countries in southern Africa as ‘ultra risk’. Read more here. Govt once again forgetting devastation caused by second wave, says Cong’s GogoiGogoi asked for data on second dose given to citizens, aid given to divyang citizens and asked BJP MPs to remember devastation caused by second wave earlier in 2021. Read more here.Not Channi, it's changi govt: Punjab CM presents report card of first 50 daysHitting out at convener Arvind Kejriwal, Channi said comparisons cannot be drawn between him and the Delhi chief minister as the latter is an outsider. Read more here. China summons Japan envoy over ex-PM’s Taiwan remarksChin lodged its protest after former Japanese prime minister Shinzo Abe said neither Tokyo nor Washington could stand by if China attacked Taiwan. Read more here. Will Omicron be as deadly as Delta? Virologist on symptoms, prevention and scare around the new strainOmicron is the latest variant of concern, but is it as dangerous as Delta? A virologist explains. Read more here. Karan Johar’s Dharma Productions crops Kangana Ranaut out of Ungli poster in new tweet, fans say ‘have some shame’Kangana Ranaut was cropped out of the poster of Ungli in Dharma Productions’ tweet to celebrate seven years of the release of the film. Read more here.Bounce Infinity e-scooter, with battery swap, launched. Price, other detailsOne can purchase the Bounce Infinity electric scooter for only ₹36,000, sans battery. Read more here.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/news-updates-from-ht-bmc-proposes-institutional-quarantine-amid-omicron-scare-101638443368583.html
02-12-2021||India||Cyclone Jawad: IMD asks people to stay indoors, Jharkhand to be impacted too | 10 points||The weather experts have issued extensive warning for the low-pressure area brewing in the Bay of Bengal and expected to turn into Cyclone Jawad by Friday. The cyclone is expected to cause heavy rainfall in Odisha, parts of Andhra Pradesh and West Bengal.Also Read | What we know about Cyclone Jawad's formation and movement pathThe wind speed is expected to cross dangerous levels when the cyclone comes close to the landfall. The state governments, in coordination with the Centre, have already made elaborate arrangements to minimise the impact of the cyclonic storm.Here are the latest developments on Cyclone Jawad:• Prime Minister Narendra Modi held a review meeting with senior officials on Jawad. He was briefed by the officials about the movement of the cyclonic storm and its likely impact.• Umashankar Das, a scientist at the India Meteorological Department (IMD), said that there is a possibility of landslides in hilly areas. He advised people to remain indoors. Das also said that the wind speed in coastal areas would be around 60-80 kmph from the afternoon of December 4.• The IMD has already issued red alert for four districts in Odisha and orange for seven. Fishermen have been advised not to venture into the sea from December 3-5.• The chief of the National Disaster Response Force (NDRF) Atul Karwal said that they have deployed 33 more teams at the required places to deal with the situation arising out of the impending cyclone.• Twenty-nine NDRF teams are already deployed in places which lie on the projected path of the cyclone.• Eight of these teams have been deployed in West Bengal and eight more will be sent by Thursday night, said Karwal.• IMD official in Jharkhand said that the cyclone will have moderate impact in the state from December 3-6. They, however, issued no warning for Jharkhand. “On December 3, south Jharkhand districts like Jamshedpur, Seraikela Kharsawan, Chaibasa, parts of Khunti and Ranchi will get light rainfall,” said Abhishek Anand, from IMD's regional office in Ranchi.• The government in Odisha, likely to be the worst-affected state, has asked collectors of 13 districts to prepare for evacuation of the people. It has also asked the officials to chalk out a disaster management strategy by requisitioning NDRF, ODRAF and fire department personnel for rescue and relief operation.• Cyclone Jawad is likely to cross the coasts of Andhra Pradesh and Odisha by the morning of December 4, with wind speeds ranging from 90 kmph to 100 kmph, accompanied by heavy rainfall and tidal waves in the coastal districts of these states.• On Wednesday, Cabinet Secretary Rajiv Gauba chaired a meeting of the National Crisis Management Committee (NCMC) where he reviewed the preparedness of central ministries agencies and state governments to deal with the cyclonic storm.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/cyclone-jawad-imd-asks-people-to-stay-indoors-jharkhand-to-be-impacted-too-101638443143413.html
02-12-2021||India||Cyclone Jawad: What we know so far about its formation and movement path||As many as eight teams of the National Disaster Response Force (NDRF) have been deployed in West Bengal in the wake of the formation and arrival of cyclone Jawad, news agency ANI reported on Thursday. The NDRF teams will be deployed in the eastern state by Thursday night.In its latest bulletin, the India Meteorological Department (IMD) noted that a well-marked low-pressure area currently lies over the southeast Bay of Bengal, and it is expected to move west northwestwards and intensify into a depression during the next 12 hours. The depression will then move northwestwards and turn into a cyclonic storm over the central parts of Bay of Bengal in the subsequent 24 hours. This cyclonic storm – known as cyclone Jawad -- is expected to reach the coast of Andhra Pradesh and Odisha on December 4 morning.To be more specific, the weather department said that the formation of the cyclonic storm over the central Bay of Bengal will happen on December 3.Also Read | These southern states to get above normal rainfall from Dec till Feb: IMDRed, orange and yellow alerts have been issued in multiple districts of Odisha. The state government has also directed collectors of 13 districts to make arrangements for evacuating people in their regions ahead of cyclone Jawad’s landfall.IMD scientist Umashankar Das told news agency ANI that wind speed in coastal areas of states that are expected to be impacted by cyclone Jawad would be around 60-80kmph from December 4 afternoon. He also advised people to stay indoors, citing that there is a possibility of landslides in hilly areas due to the cyclonic storm.Meanwhile, Prime Minister Narendra Modi chaired a vital meeting earlier in the day to discuss the cyclone-related scenario in India.Here are all the latest updates regarding cyclone Jawad’s formation and arrival:||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/cyclone-jawad-what-we-know-so-far-about-its-formation-and-movement-path-101638442023713.html
02-12-2021||India||Omicron variant detected in India, two positive cases in Karnataka||Two people from Karnataka tested positive for the Omicron variant of coronavirus, the Union health ministry informed on Thursday. These are the first cases of the fast-spreading cases to be reported in India."Two cases of Omicron variant have been reported in the country so far. Both cases are from Karnataka," Lav Agarwal, joint secretary, Union health ministry, said at a press briefing today, adding that the patients have not reported any severe symptoms so far."All primary contacts and secondary contacts of both the cases have been traced and are being tested," Agarwal further said.Also Read | Will Omicron be as deadly as Delta? Virologist on symptoms, prevention and scare around the new strainThe Omicron variant was first detected in southern Africa and since then has spread to 29 countries, the health ministry official informed today (India is the 30th country). The Indian government has already implemented strict measures for international travellers to check the spread of the new strain. Those measures have come into effect from Wednesday.As part of the new guidelines, the Centre has made a negative RT-PCR test mandatory for travellers arriving from countries identified as 'at-risk' (where omicron cases have been reported). The central government also directed states to ramp up testing.Niti Aayog member Dr VK Paul, who was also present at the briefing, was asked about the resumption of international flights and administering of booster shots. “The Omicron variant of Covid-19 is being carefully examined, we will take decisions on the basis of it. It's an ongoing discussion within our technical and scientific circles,” he said. India was set to restart scheduled commercial international flights on December 15, but on Wednesday scrapped that plan and said a resumption date would be announced in due course.Scientifically Speaking | The emergence of Omicron was expectedAfter battling a record jump in infections and deaths in April and May, coronavirus disease (Covid-19) cases have come down substantially in India, where the Delta variant is the dominant strain.On Thursday, the country recorded 9,765 new cases of Covid-19 in the last 24 hours, which took its total tally to 34.61 million. Only the United States has reported more Covid-19 cases.The active caseload remained below the 1 lakh mark and now stands at 99,763.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/omicron-variant-detected-in-india-two-positive-cases-in-karnataka-101638442947906.html
02-12-2021||India||Dam Safety Bill, 2021: Opposition MPs want Bill to be sent to Select Committee||Opposition MPs on Thursday demanded that the government send the Dam Safety Bill, 2021 to a Select Committee. The MPs said that dams are a state government subject and the Centre cannot make rules for the state. Several MPs from parties like Trinamool Congress (TMC), Dravida Munnetra Kazhagam (DMK) and the Congress said that the state government takes care of the safety of the dams and maintains them.“Tamil Nadu faced many problems regarding the sharing of water. We have to seek the refuge of the Court. We have certain problems and the Centre did not come to our support. You should not be bothered about dams but water, we are the owners of the dam and it is our concern. Do not follow Article 252 but also the consent of all states,” DMK’s TKS Elangovan said in the Rajya Sabha.Elangovan was referring to the water sharing woes faced by Tamil Nadu, Speaking of Article 252, which allows the Parliament to bring legislation on subjects in State List if two or more states pass a resolution requiring a law, he said power of states also should be taken into consideration, since state governments are also elected . He also pointed out that the Article 17 allows states to make laws on issues of water supply, irrigation and canals, drainage, water storage and water power.TMC’s Nadimul Haque, Congress’ Shaktisinh Gohil and Biju Janata Dal’s Acharya Prasanna also echoed similar concerns. Prasanna also said that Odisha has several committees to do safety checks on dams. He said that state governments should be allowed to function independently.YSR Congress' Vjiaysai Reddy supported the bill and said that Andhra Pradesh does not get fair share of water the state is entitled to. “This adjudicating mechanism is necessary for giving justice to states,” Reddy said.Union minister of Jal Shakti Gajendra Singh Shekhawat said 90% of India’s dams are built on inter-state rivers. He explained that when water is released by states then states downstream are affected due to this. “There have been several efforts undertaken to ensure a national body on dams has been constituted since the last 40 years. The Centre is trying to ensure that the body is constituted to ensure dam safety,” Shekhawat said. The ruling party also highlighted that the bill was first introduced by the Congress in 2010.The Dam Safety Bill, 2021 proposes constitution of National Committee on Dam Safety and National Dam Safety Authority. The National Committee on Dam Safety will form policies and recommend regulations to the National Dam Safety Authority.The National Dam Safety Authority implements the policies advised to it. It will also constitute two state bodies -- State Committee on Dam Safety and State Dam Safety Authority -- if the legislation is passed. The state committees’ functions are restricted at state level and are akin to those of national committees. The Centre, can however, amend the functions of these state committees through a notification, if and when it deems necessary.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/dam-safety-bill-2021-opposition-mps-want-bill-to-be-sent-to-select-committee-101638441979749.html
02-12-2021||India||'Go home and check data': Shah's message to Akhilesh for claiming crime has gone up in UP||Union home minister Amit Shah said on Thursday incidents of looting and murder have gone down in Uttar Pradesh as he attacked Samajwadi Party chief Akhilesh Yadav for claiming otherwise while advising him to “go home and check the data”.“I was listening to Akhilesh Yadav's speech on TV, where he says that crime has increased. Akhilesh'ji, where did you bring your spectacles from? What spectacles do you use? I have brought a comparison between the 5 years of Yogi'ji and you. Dacoity has gone down by 70% in Yogi govt,” news agency ANI quoted Shah as saying“Incidents of looting by using weapons have gone down by 69%. Murders went down by 30%. Deaths due to dowry have gone down by 22.5%,” Shah said.The home minister further said that the Bharatiya Janata Party has ensured a 'riotless' state while in the previous government many riots had taken place in which youths were killed.Union Home Minister Amit Shah lays foundation stone of Maa Shakumbhari University at Punwarka village in Saharanpur. Union Minister Dharmendra Pradhan, Chief Minister Yogi Adityanath, Deputy CM Dinesh Sharma and others also present. pic.twitter.com/POlE5CsQAV"Modi did what the country could not do in the past 70 years. He repealed 370 from the constitution. He provided justice to Muslim women by repealing triple talaq. Samajwadi party used to satire us in 2014 that Ram Mandir banayenge, lekin tithing nahi batayenge. But a grand ram Mandir is now being built," Shah said.Amit Shah's remarks came as he laid the foundation for Maa Shakumbhari Devi University in Saharanpur’s Behat Assembly constituency, just months ahead of the state Assembly elections.Previously, in the 2017 Assembly elections in Uttar Pradesh, the Bharatiya Janata Party bagged 312 seats out of the 403-seat Uttar Pradesh Assembly while Samajwadi Party (SP) bagged 47 seats, Bahujan Samajwadi Party (BSP) won 19 and Congress could manage to win only seven seats. The rest of the seats were bagged by other candidates.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/go-home-and-check-data-shah-s-message-to-akhilesh-for-claiming-crime-has-gone-up-in-up-101638441523427.html
02-12-2021||India||Round 14 of India, China corps commander-level talks in second half of Dec||In a bid to resolve the ongoing stand-off on the Line of Actual Control (LAC), India and China are likely to hold the 14th round of corps commander talks in the second half of December."The invitation for the 14th round of talks has to come from the Chinese side. It is likely that the talks would be held in the second half of December," government sources told ANI.The sources said the timing would be suitable for India as the armed force would be busy with the celebrations as it is the golden jubilee of crushing defeat of Pakistan and Indian victory in the 1971 war till December 16.India and China have been holding the talks on the Line of Actual Control in Eastern Ladakh area to resolve the standoff and 13 rounds have been held so far.The two sides are looking at the resolution of the Hot Springs friction point which emerged after the Chinese aggression least year.The friction points on the banks of the Pangong lake and Gogra heights have been resolved but Hot Springs remains to be addressed, the sources said.India has also been demanding the resolution of the DBO area and CNN junction area which have been there before the April-May timeframe last year and are considered to be legacy issues.India responded very aggressively to Chinese aggression and checked their actions at multiple locations after the PLA managed to spring an initial surprise.The Galwan clash also took place in June there in which both sides suffered casualties.India has been working towards establishing peace in the area but has also maintained a high level of preparedness to thwart any misadventure by the enemy troops.Both sides have deployed a large number of troops in the area along with heavy weaponry. The infrastructure build-up has also been very heavy.China has increased its activities in the areas opposite Ladakh by building habitats for troops very close to the LAC and it seems it has a larger gameplan in view of its aggressive infrastructure build-up.India has also made rapid developments in terms of roads and habitats for troops and sources estimated that India can easily manage over 2 lakh soldiers in the area in extreme winters in case such a large number of troops are required to be there.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/round-14-of-india-china-corps-commander-level-talks-in-second-half-of-dec-101638440931093.html
02-12-2021||India||With 'achchhe' din jibe, Madhya Pradesh minister targets Mamata and Rahul Gandhi||Madhya Pradesh home minister Narottam Mishra on Thursday launched an attack on the leaders of opposition parties, such as Mamata Banerjee (Trinamool Congress chief), Rahul Gandhi (Congress) and Arvind Kejriwal (Aam Aadmi Party chief) saying they remember temples and other places of worship used by Hindus only during electioms. Mishra said these leaders were always busy attending Iftar (the meal eaten by Muslims after evening Namaz during Ramazan) parties, but are now going to temples.In a video posted on social media platform Koo, Mishra, a senior leader of the ruling Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP), said, "Mamata didi is going to Siddhi Vinayak, Kamal Nath ji is reciting Hanuman Chalisa, Kejriwal ji is doing pilgrimage, Rahul ji is becoming a Kashmiri Pandit" and added "how many more 'achchhe din' does the country need?" The MP minister was referring to the ruling BJP's slogan for the 2014 general election - 'Achchhe din aane wale hai (Good days will come)'. Mishra said that this is happening because the politics of the country has changed.He also targeted Banerjee over a row involving of national anthem. Mishra said Banerjee noth only disrespected the country, but Rabindranath Tagore himself (composer of the song) by disrespeting the national anthem. The Mumbai unit of the BJP has alleged that while singing the national anthem during a press conference in Mumbai on Wednesday, Banerjee did not complete the anthem and sat down midway. They have demanded an FIR should be registered against herAccording to Mumbai BJP, Banerjee sang few verses of the national anthem at an event in Mumbai, but stopped midway and concluded by saying "Jai Maharashtra". The video of the same are doing rounds on social media.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/with-achchhe-din-jibe-madhya-pradesh-minister-targets-mamata-and-rahul-gandhi-101638438550187.html
02-12-2021||India||Kishor slams Congress, says Opposition leadership not anybody’s ‘divine right’||Election strategist Prashant Kishor on Thursday attacked the Congress, saying the “idea and space” the party represents is vital for a strong Opposition, but its leadership is not the “divine right” of an individual, especially when it has lost over 90% of elections in 10 years.In a tweet, he said let the Opposition leadership be “decided democratically”.Within minutes of Kishor’s tweet, Congress leader Pawan Khera hit back. “Hell hath no fury like a strategist scorned.”HT in October reported that the Congress put off the plan to induct Kishor into the party this year due to a trust deficit. Kishor held a series of meetings with the Congress leadership. In the spring of 2020, he first met Congress president Sonia Gandhi.Kishor, who is credited with helping chief minister Mamata Banerjee-led Trinamool Congress (TMC) return to power for a third time this summer, is believed to have engineered a series of defections from the Congress to West Bengal’s ruling party.Watch: BJP slams at Mamata for ‘insulting national anthem’; complaint filed in MumbaiHis attack on the Congress came a day after Banerjee said there was no United Progressive Alliance (UPA) left and called for unifying the Opposition parties to take on the ruling Bharatiya Janata Party.Banerjee did not name the Congress, but said if a party is afraid and its leaders are absent from the field, the BJP will “bowl you out”. “What is (Congress-led) UPA? There is no UPA,” Banerjee told reporters after meeting Nationalist Congress Party (NCP) chief Sharad Pawar. On Tuesday, she met leaders of the Shiv Sena, the biggest constituent of Maharashtra’s ruling alliance that includes the NCP and the Congress.In October, Kishor put out a cryptic statement about the Congress’s response to Priyanka Gandhi Vadra’s visit to Uttar Pradesh’s Lakhimpur Kheri after the violence there. The violence was triggered after a convoy, including a car belonging to Union minister Ajay Mishra, rammed into a group of protesting farmers, and left eight people dead.“People looking for a quick, spontaneous revival of GOP (Grand Old Party or Congress)-led opposition based on #LakhimpurKheri incident are setting themselves up for a big disappointment. Unfortunately, there are no quick fix solutions to the deep-rooted problems and structural weakness of GOP,’’ tweeted Kishor.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/kishor-slams-congress-says-opposition-leadership-not-anybody-s-divine-right-101638440002566.html
02-12-2021||India||Govt once again forgetting devastation caused by second wave, says Cong’s Gogoi||Congress MP Gaurav Gogoi on Thursday said that certain MPs of the ruling Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) are forgetting the devastation caused by the second wave of Covid-19 earlier this year.“The Prime Minister asked the nation to remain vigilant regarding Covid-19. Other MPs of the BJP also need to ask citizens to remain vigilant and follow Covid-19 preventive measures. Earlier this year, on several forums the government declared victory over Covid-19 and it was months before the Covid-19’s second wave which caused large numbers of deaths and forced us to ask foreign nations for ventilators and equipment for oxygen generation,” the parliamentarian from Assam said.He said that the government imposed taxes on petrol, GST on several items, increased the price of LPG and taxed the poor while claiming that certain MPs of the ruling party said that it is providing the vaccines for free in an apparent reference to BJP's Dibrugarh MP Rameswar Teli saying back in October that the government procured vaccines using the tax imposed on petrol and diesel. The government, however, reduced taxes on petrol on the eve of Diwali. He said the government should have announced more economic relief as the second wave led to job losses and pay cuts.Gogoi inquired regarding the status of Covid-19 vaccine’s second dose and also sought clarification on the real number of deaths caused during the pandemic. Speaking on the vaccination drive, he said that vaccination records should not be only touched during events like Modi's birthday. “Citing Assam’s vaccination data, I can say that vaccination records rose leading to Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s birthday and it fell days after that and it was also low days before the event,” Gogoi said. He also disapproved of the usage of the Prime Minister's photos on vaccination certificates.He said that the government should own up to the mistakes it made. “Do not accuse us for the achievements you have failed to achieve. The government should take credit for the objectives it has achieved but also take ownership of the failure,” he further added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/govt-once-again-forgetting-devastation-caused-by-second-wave-says-cong-s-gogoi-101638439403900.html
02-12-2021||India||UP issues Omicron rules, makes thermal scanning must for all travelers. Details here||The Uttar Pradesh government on Thursday issued fresh coronavirus disease (Covid-19)-related curbs in view of rising concerns over Omicron, the highly contagious new variant of the virus that has now held the world, and by extension the country, by storm. According to the new guidelines, all travelers coming to Uttar Pradesh will have to mandatorily undergo thermal scanning. If any of them tests positive for Covid-19, they shall be isolated. The government has directed the authorities of railway and bus stations in every district to keep a medical team ready for coronavirus disease sampling, according to the official order accessed by news agency ANI.UP Govt issued new guidelines amid the emergence of new variant #OmicronAll travellers coming to UP will go through thermal scanning; any COVID positive traveller will be isolated. Every district's railway & bus station will have a medical team for COVID sampling: UP Govt pic.twitter.com/wKmRaEha1JThe new Omicron guidelines issued in Uttar Pradesh require the district collectors and chief medical officers to make personal visits to the airports in their jurisdiction and ensure that all arriving passengers are subjected to thermal scanning. Those who test positive for the virus shall be isolated separately as per prescribed protocol, with authorities initiating contact tracing as soon as possible.Meanwhile, the district collectors of Gautam Buddh Nagar and Ghaziabad have been asked to coordinate with the Delhi government and issue specific orders in their respective areas for international passengers, the list of which will be provided to the respective medical officers.Although no cases of the new Covid-19 variant, Omicron, have been reported in the country so far, concerns still run high. According to the Union health ministry, six Covid-19 positive cases were reported on Wednesday after screening 3,476 passengers from 11 international flights from ‘at risk’ countries.Omicron (B.1.1.529), the new variant of the coronavirus, was first reported to the World Health Organisation (WHO) from South Africa on November 25. As per the WHO, the first known confirmed B.1.1.529 infection was from a specimen collected on November 9 this year. Later last month, the global public health body classified Omicron as a ‘variant of concern’.The new Omicron coronavirus variant has been confirmed in 23 countries and their number is expected to rise, WHO director-general Tedros Adhanom Ghebreyesus has said.Dozens of countries have imposed travel restrictions on the southern African nations since the mutation was discovered. India has also added several countries to the list from where travellers would need to follow additional measures on arrival in the country, including post-arrival testing for infection.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/up-issues-omicron-rules-makes-thermal-scanning-must-for-all-travelers-details-here-101638434803525.html
02-12-2021||India||These 4 airports in India will have facial recognition tech by March next year||Facial Recognition Technology (FRT) has not yet been introduced at any of the airports in India, replied Minister of State in the Ministry of Civil Aviation General V K Singh (retd) to a question in Lok Sabha on Thursday.The question was asked by MPs Feroze Varun Gandhi and Ram Shankar Katheria.Singh said FRT has not yet been introduced at any of the airports in India. However, the Airports Authority of India (AAI) is working on a project of FRT-based Biometric Boarding System as part of the first phase of Digi Yatra Implementation at four Airports (Varanasi, Pune, Kolkata, and Vijayawada).He added that the proposed Digi Yatra Central Eco-system is planned to go live in March 2022. It is to be scaled up in a phased manner for adoption across various airports of the country.On being asked about the safeguards taken by the Government to prevent the leakage of passenger data, he said that as per the Digi Yatra policy, registering for the Digi Yatra Central Ecosystem is optional to the passenger. For availing of the Digi Yatra services, passengers would send the travel details (Pax details, PNR and Facial Biometrics) through an app to the Biometric Boarding System of the respective departing airport.Moreover, if for a particular journey, the passenger does not want to avail of the Digi Yatra services then the passenger has an option to not send the data and use the existing manual process at airports."The Digi Yatra Central Ecosystem envisages assessments (by independent teams to assess the level of security and system resilience to protect PII) and periodic audits by governing/regulatory bodies twice every year. Facial recognition is as per Industry ISO standards with best in class National Institute of Standards and Technology (NIST) listed algorithms complying to Data Privacy and Data protection requirement as laid down by Government," he said.Data shared by the Passenger is to be used for the purpose defined and would not be shared with any other external stakeholders. It is important to note that data shared by passengers is to be retained during the transit of the passenger at the airport and will not be retained for more than 24 hours after Take-off/departure of the flight, he replied.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/these-4-airports-in-india-will-have-facial-recognition-tech-by-march-next-year-101638437659674.html
02-12-2021||India||Parliament can't be converted into a closed chamber: TMC's Derek O'Brien on censorship||Trinamool Congress MP Derek O’Brien on Thursday called for an end to censorship of protests in Parliament. Stating that Parliament cannot be converted into a closed chamber, the Rajya Sabha member said he would appeal to presiding officers of both Houses to rectify television coverage that he said was being censored.“I would, on behalf of TMC, like to humbly appeal to the presiding officers of both Houses to rectify television coverage. All protests are censored on the TV and we demand this censorship to be stopped, Parliament cannot be converted into a closed chamber,” O’Brien was quoted as saying by news agency ANI.His statement came amid regular reports of adjournments in both houses of Parliament due to uproar and protests by Opposition MPs during the ongoing and previous sessions.The Mamata Banerjee-led Trinamool Congress has been campaigning for immediate restoration of all facilities to journalists to cover Parliament proceedings.We call for the immediate restoration of all facilities to the journalists to cover parliament so that the institution is strengthened.(2/2) pic.twitter.com/WzBQJmi9SVEarlier in the day, the MP shared a message of solidarity from Banerjee with journalists protesting against restricted access to Parliament.Meanwhile, Opposition MPs continued their protests over the suspension of 12 Rajya Sabha members for the remainder of the session over alleged unruly behaviour in the last monsoon session of Parliament.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/parliament-can-t-be-converted-into-a-closed-chamber-tmc-mp-on-censorship-101638436759899.html
02-12-2021||India||4 more international travellers test Covid positive at Delhi airport: Officials||Four more travellers from “at-risk” countries tested positive for Covid-19 on arrival at the Indira Gandhi International Airport here on Thursday, officials said.Three out of the 243 people on the Air France flight that landed at the airport around 12 midnight tested positive for Covid, an official said.One more person travelling with 195 others on a flight from London was found to be infected with coronavirus, the official said.Their samples have been sent to the National Centre for Disease Control for genome sequencing to ascertain if they have the new variant, Omicron, which has been classified as ‘variant of concern’ by the World Health Organization.A total of eight people from “at-risk” countries have tested positive for Covid-19 since stricter norms for international passengers came into effect on Tuesday midnight.The eight Covid positive travellers and two other passengers who showed “Covid-like symptoms” have been admitted to the Lok Nayak Hospital, where a dedicated ward has been set up for isolating and treating such patients.According to the Centre, the countries designated as "at-risk" are European countries, including the UK, and South Africa, Brazil, Botswana, China, Mauritius, New Zealand, Zimbabwe, Singapore, Hong Kong and Israel.Under the new norms, RT-PCR tests are mandatory for passengers arriving from the "at-risk" countries and they will be allowed to leave the airport only after the results come.Also, five per cent of the passengers arriving in flights from other countries will be subject to the test randomly.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/4-more-international-travellers-test-covid-positive-at-delhi-airport-officials-101638429664254.html
02-12-2021||India||Prashant Kishor attacks Congress again. This time over 'divine right of leadership'||Election strategist Prashant Kishor on Thursday said Congress's leadership is not the divine right of an individual especially when the party has lost more than 90% elections in the last 10 years in a veiled dig at Congress leader Rahul Gandhi. The strategist who was, a few months ago, rumoured to be joining the party did not, however, dismiss the significance of the party in the present political landscape of the country. "The idea and space that Congress represents is vital for a strong opposition," Kishor tweeted. "Let opposition leadership be decided democratically," Prashant Kishor added. The IDEA and SPACE that #Congress represents is vital for a strong opposition. But Congress’ leadership is not the DIVINE RIGHT of an individual especially, when the party has lost more than 90% elections in last 10 years. Let opposition leadership be decided Democratically.The strategist, who is believed to have engineered the recent big-ticket exits from the Congress-- be it former Goa chief minister Luizinho Faleiro or former Meghalaya chief minister Mukul Sangma -- has lately become critical of the Congress leadership. Following the Lakhimpur Kheri incident in which protesting farmers were mowed down by the car of junior home minister Ajay Mishra Teni, Prashant Kishor said Congress was attempting to gain ground overnight over the Lakhimpur Kheri incident. "People looking for a quick, spontaneous revival of GOP led opposition based on #LakhimpurKheri incident are setting themselves up for a big disappointment. Unfortunately, there are no quick-fix solutions to the deep-rooted problems and structural weakness of GOP," Prashant Kishor had tweeted.The criticism of the Congress comes a day after West Bengal chief minister Mamata Banerjee questioned the existence of the UPA, creating a stir in the power corridors. "A firm alternative course should be made as nobody's fighting against ongoing fascism. Sharad Ji is the senior-most leader and I came to discuss our political parties. I agree with whatever Sharad Ji said. There is no UPA," Banerjee said after meeting Nationalist Congress Party chief Sharad Pawar in Mumbai.Mamata Banerjee, who is advised by Prashant Kishor, took a jibe at Rahul Gandhi on Wednesday as she said one needs to be constant in politics. "You can't be abroad most of the time," she said.In another prediction, the strategist recently said the BJP will remain powerful for decades. “The BJP is going to be in the centre of Indian politics, whether they win, whether they lose - like it was for the first 40 years for the Congress. The BJP is going nowhere. Once you secure 30% vote at the India level, you are not going away in a hurry,” Prashant Kishore said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/congress-leadership-not-divine-right-prashant-kishor-s-veiled-dig-at-rahul-101638432683931.html
02-12-2021||India||Cyclone Jawad: 95 trains cancelled for ‘safety of passengers’. Check full list||As many as 95 trains passing over or originating from East Coast Railway has been cancelled due to the threat posed by Cyclone Jawad that may hit Odisha on Saturday morning. The cyclonic storm is likely to form over the central Bay of Bengal on December 3. East Coast Railway said that the trains have been cancelled in view of “safety of passengers” the low-pressure area forms in the south Andaman Sea. The low-pressure area is expected to intensify into a depression and move towards the Odisha coast as a cyclonic storm on December 4. The possible cyclonic storm over the Bay of Bengal has prompted a meeting chaired by Prime Minister Narendra Modi.The Odisha government has requisitioned National Disaster Response Force, Odisha Disaster Rapid Action Force and fire department personnel for rescue and relief operations. Meanwhile, the Andhra Pradesh government has sounded an alert in view of the cyclone threat to the north coastal Andhra region.As Cyclone Jawad heads towards Odisha, PM Modi holds crucial meetingList of trains cancelled in wake of Cyclone Jawad: On Wednesday, Cabinet secretary Rajiv Gauba held a review meeting related to the preparedness of Central ministries agencies and state governments to deal with the situation arising out of the impending cyclone. Gauba, the chairman of the National Crisis Management Committee (NCMC), said that "all preventive and precautionary measures should be taken by the concerned agencies of the state governments and those of the Centre before the cyclonic storm makes landfall, so as to avoid any loss of life and minimize damages to property, infrastructure, and crops."||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/cyclone-jawad-95-trains-cancelled-for-safety-of-passengers-check-full-list-101638430708656.html
02-12-2021||India||Cyclone Jawad: PM Modi holds meeting; red alert in Odisha, NDRF teams on standby||Prime Minister Narendra Modi held a crucial meeting on Thursday, to discuss cyclone-related situation in the country. The meeting comes in the wake of an impending cyclone in the Bay of Bengal.The low-pressure area in the Bay of Bengal is likely to intensify into cyclonic storm Jawad by December 3. It is expected to cross the coasts of Andhra Pradesh and Odisha by the morning of December 4, with wind speeds ranging from 90 kmph to 100 kmph, accompanied by heavy rainfall and tidal waves in the coastal districts of these states.The cyclonic storm is likely to affect the districts of Srikakulam, Vishakhapatnam and Vijayanagaram in Andhra Pradesh and the coastal districts of Odisha. It is also likely to bring heavy to very heavy rainfall in the coastal areas and Gangetic parts of West Bengal.The sea condition is likely to be very rough with squally winds reaching a speed of 45 to 55 kmph, gusting to 65 kmph on December 3. The wind speed is likely to reach 80 kmph gusting to 90 kmph on December 4 morning, according to the weather department.Cabinet secretary Rajiv Gauba held a meeting of the National Crisis Management Committee (NCMC) on Wednesday to review the preparedness of central ministries and agencies ahead of the landfall of the cyclone.Gauba emphasised that fishermen and all vessels at sea must be called back immediately and people in areas likely to be affected by the cyclonic storm are evacuated at the earliest.Director-General of the India Meteorological Department (IMD) Mrutunjay Mohapatra gave a presentation at the meeting where he gave details about the current status of the cyclone and its expected path of movement.The IMD has issued red alert (signifying heavy to very heavy rainfall) in Gajapati, Ganjam, Puri and Jagatsinghpur districts of Odisha. Orange alert has been issued in Kendrapara, Cuttack, Khurda, Nayagarh, Kandhamal, Rayagada and Koraput districts for December 4 after the cyclonic storm reaches near the coast. It also issued yellow al indicating heavy rainfall in Balasore, Bhadrak, Jajpur and Malkangiri districts on the same day.The National Disaster Response Force (NDRF) has deployed 32 teams in Andhra Pradesh, Odisha and West Bengal and additional teams are also being kept on standby. The Army and Navy too are ready along with their ships and aircraft.The Coast Guard has already initiated extensive pre-emptive measures in the eastern coast keeping in view the approaching cyclonic storm. The Coast Guard Disaster Relief Teams (DRTs) with inflatable boats, life buoys and life jackets are on the standby for disaster response operation, a tweet by the Defence public relations officer in Chennai said on Wednesday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/as-cyclone-jawad-heads-towards-odisha-pm-modi-holds-crucial-meeting-101638432340210.html
02-12-2021||India||Bihar minister stopped to make way for DM, SP's car, vows to get officers suspended||A minister of the Nitish Kumar-led NDA government in Bihar got extremely angry on Thursday after his convoy was stopped on Assembly premises to make way for cars in which a superintendent of police and district magistrates were travelling. Minister Jivesh Mishra then vowed to not enter the Assembly till the officers concerned were suspended.In a clip shared by new agency ANI, the minister can be seen telling a police personnel on duty “‘hum sarkaar hain, battameezi karte ho tum log’ (we are the government... this is disrespectful)”.When reporters prodded him to speak further on the issue, Mishra said a minister was being stopped to make way for the DM and SP’s cars. “These officers are responsible for making me wait and let the SP and DM’s cars pass. I will enter the Assembly only after their suspension.”#WATCH Bihar minister Jivesh Mishra gets angry after his car is stopped in Assembly premises by police to give way to SP & DM, demands their suspension#Patna pic.twitter.com/a0JroXccPqThe five-day winter session of the state legislature began on November 29.On November 25, the National e-Vidhan application (NeVA) was inaugurated in the Bihar legislative council to make the functioning of the House paperless.Minister Shahnawaz Hussain said Bihar’s legislative council was the first in the country to go paperless.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/bihar-minister-stopped-to-make-way-dm-sp-s-car-vows-to-get-officers-suspended-101638432239195.html
02-12-2021||India||Delhi suspends physical classes once again owing to pollution after SC rap||Delhi environment minister Gopal Rai on Thursday announced that all schools in Delhi will remain closed from Friday till any further order is issued in this regard, owing to the present pollution levels in the city, news agency ANI reported. The decision comes after the chief justice of India, NV Ramana, rapped the Delhi government on reopening schools amid the threatening levels of pollution. Noting that while elders are allowed to work from home, the Supreme Court bench asked the government why the children are being exposed to the health hazard.“We had reopened schools considering the forecast that air quality would improve. However, the air pollution levels have increased again and we have decided to shut schools from Friday till further orders,” Gopal Rai said. Advocate Abhishek Singhvi, appearing for the Delhi government, informed the Supreme Court that sending their children to schools to attend physical classes is voluntary and if the apex court wants, the government can suspend offline classes. "Don't use our shoulder. You are the government, you have to take action. You are saying whoever wants to come, come; you want to stay at home, stay. If you give an option, everyone will come, who wants to stay at home," the CJI said."We take your statements in court seriously and true. One thing you told was schools are closed. But schools are not closed. Small children have to go in morning in fog. There’s no respect? See today’s paper. Children are going. I know children who are going to school. Don’t attract orders. Everything we need not tell you. We respect you. So elders have work from home and children have to go to school?" Chief Justice NV Ramana said hearing a case related to Delhi's air pollution.The pollution levels in Delhi worsened on Thursday as air quality went into the severe category from Wednesday's 'very poor'. According to the Central Pollution Control Board’ (CPCB) website, the hourly air quality index (AQI)) of Delhi stood at 416 at 7 am on Thursday. The average 24-hour AQI of the city on Wednesday was 370.The Supreme Court had earlier suggested a lockdown to address the issue of health hazards arising out of increasing levels of pollution in the capital. In the middle of November, the Delhi government announced the closure of physical classes and asked offices to work from home. Construction activities were also suspended. After being shut for a brief period, schools resumed physical classes from November 29, as teh air quality saw a little improvement in between.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/delhi-suspends-physical-classes-once-again-owing-to-pollution-after-sc-snub-101638430997941.html
02-12-2021||India||News updates from HT: India slams UN agency for ‘baseless’ allegations against security forces and all the latest news||Here are today’s top news, analysis and opinion. Know all about the latest news and other news updates from Hindustan Times.India slams UN agency for ‘baseless’ allegations against security forces, defends UAPAIndia on Thursday lashed out at the UN human rights agency for making “baseless and unfounded allegations” against the country’s law enforcement authorities and security forces and criticising the arrest of a Kashmiri rights activist under the Unlawful Activities (Prevention) Act, 1967. Read MoreAbe’s warning to China over Taiwan is a blunt message to President XiFormer Prime Minister of Japan Shinzo Abe’s upfront warning to China that Tokyo and Washington will not stand-by if Beijing attacked Taiwan is a message to President Xi Jinping to tone down his belligerence over Taipei. Read MoreOmicron: Tamil Nadu issues new SOPs; unvaccinated people to be restrictedThe Tamil Nadu government implemented new standard operating procedures (SOPs) in the wake of the spread of the new variant of coronavirus, named Omicron. The new SOPs came into effect from December 1. Read MoreIND vs NZ 2nd Test: R Ashwin closing in on 3 huge milestones as Kumble, Harbhajan and Hadlee's records in dangerFour days after becoming India's third-highest wicket-taker in Test cricket, surpassing veteran off-spinner Harbhajan Singh, Ravichandran Ashwin now awaits not one but three massive milestones in the second Test against New Zealand, which will begin from December 3 at Mumbai's Wankhede Stadium. Read MoreNational Pollution Control Day 2021: Eat these foods to fight pollutionNational Pollution Control Day 2021 is observed annually on December 2 to remember the people who lost lives during 1984 Bhopal Gas Tragedy. Read MoreVir Das tells clueless Whitney Cummings how Shah Rukh Khan is ‘world's biggest star’, she googles him right away. WatchVir Das described Shah Rukh Khan as ‘the biggest star in the world’ on a podcast session and also opened up about writing jokes for the superstar. Read More||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/news-updates-from-ht-india-slams-un-agency-for-baseless-allegations-army-101638429394720.html
02-12-2021||India||‘Talk it out’: Venkaiah Naidu’s advice to govt, Oppn on deadlock over suspension||NEW DELHI: Rajya Sabha chairman M Venkaiah Naidu on Thursday urged the government and the Opposition to find a way to end the stalemate over the suspension of 12 members of the House. After the House passed a resolution on Monday moved by the government to suspend the members for “unruly behaviour” on the last day of the Monsoon Session, Opposition lawmakers have been protesting against the decision.“It is human to err and it is also human to make amends. One cannot refuse to amend and insist on glossing over the wrongdoings….I urge both the sides of this august House to talk it out and let the House do its mandated job,” Naidu said.Rajya Sabha has been unable to transact business since the beginning of the Winter Session on Monday due to disruptions by the Opposition over the suspension of 12 members for “unruly behaviour” on August 11 in the House.Also Read: Parliament winter session: Opposition plans to continue protest in Rajya Sabha for a weekAs Opposition members continued to raise the demand for allowing Mallikarjun Kharge, the Leader of the Opposition, to raise the issue, Naidu reiterated that the members had “not expressed remorse.”“This is the fourth sitting of the first session of this august House in the 75th year of our hard-fought Independence. The House could not transact any business during the last three days,” he said. Even as the Opposition members kept pushing for Kharge to be given a chance to speak, Naidu said, “…Since I cannot go public with my anguish in any other way, the only platform to share my anguish and thoughts is to speak in the House. Some of the respected leaders and members of this august House, in their wisdom, chose to describe the suspension of 12 members as ‘undemocratic’. I have struggled to understand if there was any justification in that kind of a narrative being propagated but could not.”The opposition parties have closed ranks and called the suspension unfair. They have maintained the members were suspended without following proper procedure. The government has stuck to its stand that the action will be reconsidered only when the suspended members apologise in the House.“While calling this suspension as undemocratic both within and outside the House, not even a word is being said about the reasons given for the suspension, the disdainful conduct of some members during the last session, which I have categorically called as ‘acts of sacrilege’ on the last day of the last session,” Naidu said. “…I am deeply pained to know from media reports of categorical refusals to express any regret for the acts of misconduct during the last session that led to this round of suspensions. Then what is the way forward?”
02-12-2021||India||'Fire on stranded ship off Lakshadweep brought down, all passengers & crew safe'||The Indian Coast Guard said on Thursday that a fire that broke out in the engine room of a stranded ship a few nautical miles off the coast of Lakshadweep was brought down and all passengers and crew members were safe.A PTI report said the ship, MV Kavaratti, stranded with over 322 passengers and 85 crew members a day ago was safely towed by a Coast Guard vessel, Samarth, to Androth island on Thursday morning.The ship was stranded for about sis hours on the high seas about 16 nautical miles from Kavaratti on Wednesday after the fire broke out in its engine room, following which the engine had to be shut down before extinguishing the flames.The welfare officer of the ship said all the passengers were safe and those who were bound for Androth were disembarked there.The remaining passengers, who were going to other islands of the archipelago, would be transferred to MV Corals which would ferry them to their respective destinations, he added.The report quoted a passenger and resident of Androth, Sameer Babu, as saying that there was no back-end support, like food and water, from the Lakshadweep administration or the mainland while the ship was stranded in the high seas for hours on Wednesday.Babu, who was returning home from Kochi on the ship, said it was the vessel's crew who took care of the passengers' needs like food and water and "they are our real heroes".The ship was en route to Androth from Kavaratti, where it had arrived on Monday from Kochi with over 600 passengers, when the incident occurred. By Thursday morning, the stranded vessel was towed to port by Coast Guard ship Samarth.(With inputs from agencies)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/fire-on-stranded-ship-off-lakshadweep-brought-down-all-passengers-crew-safe-101638429232056.html
02-12-2021||India||Omicron: Tamil Nadu issues new SOPs; unvaccinated people to be restricted||The Tamil Nadu government implemented new standard operating procedures (SOPs) in the wake of the spread of the new variant of coronavirus, named Omicron. The new SOPs came into effect from December 1.According to revised guidelines, RT-PCR test has been made mandatory for passengers who arrive at any of the airports in the state from countries identified as ‘at risk’ by the central government. Such travellers will remain at the respective airport till their RT-PCR test result comes negative, according to S Dharmaraj, Director at Tiruchirappalli International Airport.“Random sampling will be conducted for travellers coming from countries other than the ones categorised as 'at-risk'. The entire area is being sanitised regularly,” the official added.Meanwhile, Tamil Nadu health minister Ma Subramanian on Wednesday said that the state government has instructed officials to take steps to restrict movement of non-vaccinated people."We have instructed district collectors to take steps on restrictions for non-vaccinated people and ensure that they do not come in public places. We want to ensure that people get vaccinated without fail," Subramanian was quoted as saying by news agency ANI.He further said, "In Kanyakumari, customers at government liquor shops will get liquor only if they are vaccinated."The Indian government has implemented strict travel guidelines in the wake of the Omicron variant, which is believed to be spreading faster than the Delta strain. There are also claims that it is more resistant to vaccines and have higher number of mutations.The variant was first identified in southern Africa on November 24 and has been spreading rapidly since then. Till Wednesday, it has already spread to 23 countries.The World Health Organization (WHO) has already categoried Omicron as ‘variant of concern’.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/omicron-tamil-nadu-issues-new-sops-unvaccinated-people-to-be-restricted-101638428839393.html
02-12-2021||India||'Only helping the ruling party:' Mallikarjun Kharge on Mamata Banerjee's 'what is UPA' remark||The Congress on Thursday hit out at West Bengal Chief Minister Mamata Banerjee after she said that United Progressive Alliance (UPA) does not exist. Criticising the Trinamool Congress supremo, Leader of Opposition in Rajya Sabha Mallikarjun Kharge, as reported by news agency ANI, said, "Some people are only helping the ruling party at the Centre.""Mamata Banerjee is absolutely wrong that the UPA does not exist," Kharge said adding, "Congress is raising every issue and is fighting everywhere." "Our aim is to defeat the BJP but some people are helping that party only. Congress is in power in many states and also in Opposition in some places," the senior Congress leader also said.Kharge further said that the opposition should not get divided and fight amongst themselves while noting that Congress has tried to include them (TMC) in various socio-political issues where Congress made its name. "We have to fight against BJP together," Kharge added.On Wednesday, Banerjee who is on a three-day visit to Mumbai, met Nationalist Congress Party (NCP) chief Sharad Pawar to pitch for a united alliance of opposition parties to oust the BJP from the Centre. Speaking after the meeting, Banerjee addressed a press conference, during which she said there is no UPA. "Considering today’s situation and the ongoing fascism, a strong alternative force is required in the country against it. No one can do it alone. We all need a strong alternative and if someone is not ready to fight, then what can be done.”The remarks have since irked the Congress, with senior leaders slamming the West Bengal chief minister and accusing her of "posturing for personal ambition".Trinamool Congress was once part of the UPA, an alliance of several parties headed by the Congress that remained in power at the Centre for 10 years from 2004 to 2014.After the TMC's landslide victory in West Bengal Assembly polls held early this year, Banerjee is continuously pitching for a strong alternative at the national level, in a seeming attempt to go national.On Thursday, reacting to Banerjee's remarks, Digvijay Singh took a swipe as he said, "Can any political alliance formed against BJP be without the participation of Congress?" "Our fight is against the ruling party (BJP). Those who want to join us should come with us and those who don't want to join us are free to do so," ANI quoted Singh as saying.Another senior leader and former Union minister Kapil Sibal also reacted to the remarks and said, without the century-old party, "UPA will be a body without a soul."||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/only-helping-the-ruling-party-mallikarjun-kharge-on-mamata-banerjee-s-what-i-101638427999427.html
02-12-2021||India||India slams UN agency for ‘baseless’ allegations against security forces, defends UAPA||India on Thursday lashed out at the UN human rights agency for making “baseless and unfounded allegations” against the country’s law enforcement authorities and security forces and criticising the arrest of a Kashmiri rights activist under the Unlawful Activities (Prevention) Act, 1967. The ministry of external affairs said that the statement made by the spokesperson of the Office of the High Commissioner for Human Rights (OHCHR) “betrays a complete lack of understanding” of the security challenges faced by India from cross border terrorism and its impact on the ‘Right to Life’ of Indian citizens.“As a democratic country, with an abiding commitment to promote and protect the human rights of its citizens, India takes all necessary steps to counter cross border terrorism,” said MEA spokesperson Adrindam Bagchi in a statement, urging the UN agency to develop a “better understanding of the negative impact of terrorism on human rights.”The statement comes after the OHCHR raised concern over the arrest of Kashmiri human rights activist Khurram Parvez under the UAPA. On Wednesday, UN Human Rights Office spokesperson Rupert Colvill reiterated the call to amend the UAPA to “bring it into line with international human rights law and standards.” Colvill also urged Indian authorities to refrain from using the law in cases involving civil society, media, and activists.The recent civilian killings in the Valley prompted counterterrorism operations in which several terrorists were neutralised by security forces. But the operation also resulted in the killing of two civilians in Hyderpora encounter, triggering protests from human rights activists and kin of the deceased. While calling on security forces to exercise restraint, the UN rights agency said it was increasingly alarmed by the rise in targeted killings by “armed groups” in Kashmir.“Referring to proscribed terrorist organisations as 'armed groups' demonstrates a clear bias on the part of OHCHR,” said Bagchi.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/india-slams-un-agency-for-baseless-allegations-against-security-forces-defends-uapa-101638427066951.html
02-12-2021||India||Amit Shah to inaugurate Maa Shakumbhari university in Saharanpur today||Union home minister Amit Shah will lay the foundation stone of Maa Shakumbhatri Vishwavidyalaya in western Uttar Pradesh’s Saharanpur on Thursday. Chief minister Yogi Adityanath called the occasion a path towards the state’s “beautiful future”.“Today, western UP will witness the creation of beautiful script for his golden future. Union home minister Shri Amit Shah will lay the foundation stone of 'Maa Shakumbhari University' in Saharanpur district. @UPGovt is committed to provide higher education to the students in the state,” he said on social media platform Koo.The ceremony is scheduled to take place at 1pm.This comes just months ahead of the Uttar Pradesh assembly elections in 2022.In the 2017 last assembly elections in Uttar Pradesh, the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) bagged 312 seats out of the 403-seat Uttar Pradesh Assembly while Samajwadi Party (SP) bagged 47 seats, Bahujan Samajwadi Party (BSP) won 19 and Congress could manage to win only seven seats. The rest of the seats were bagged by other candidates.This time, the BJP is determined to retain power and has left no stone unturned to make sure that its dream is realized. All the top leaders of the party, including Prime Minister Narendra Modi, has made multiple visits to the state to give a boost to the party’s campaign.Shah, credited with the BJP’s brilliant performances in the last assembly elections and Lok Sabha polls, is looking after the entire strategy this time too.The BJP, also ruling the Centre, recently announced the scrapping of the three farm laws which triggered protests across the country, especially in farmer-dominant western region of the state. The move is being seen as the party’s efforts to placate the farmers and strengthen its presence in the western region of the state.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/amit-shah-to-inaugurate-maa-shakumbhari-university-in-saharanpur-today-101638427205006.html
02-12-2021||India||Rajya Sabha adjourned amid protests over suspension of 12 MPs||The Rajya Sabha was adjourned minutes after the House convened on Thursday as Opposition members protested against chairman M Venkaiah Naidu’s refusal to allow Mallikarjun Kharge, the leader of the Opposition, to raise the issue of the suspension of 12 members.The Opposition members rose in protest as soon as Naidu referred to the suspension and reiterated the 12 have “not expressed remorse”. Naidu said the House has not transacted business since the beginning of the Winter Session on Monday. “This is the fourth sitting of the first session of this august House in the 75th year of our hard-fought Independence. The House could not transact any business during the last three days.”As the Opposition members kept pushing for Kharge to be given a chance to speak, Naidu said, “…Since I cannot go public with my anguish in any other way, the only platform to share my anguish and thoughts is to speak in the House. Some of the respected leaders and members of this august House, in their wisdom, chose to describe the suspension of 12 members as ‘undemocratic’. I have struggled to understand if there was any justification in that kind of narrative being propagated but could not.”The Opposition parties have closed ranks and called the suspension unfair. They have maintained the members were suspended without following proper procedure. The government has stuck to its stand that the action will be reconsidered only when the suspended members apologise in the House.“While calling this suspension as undemocratic both within and outside the House, not even a word is being said about the reasons given for the suspension, the disdainful conduct of some members during the last session, which I have categorically called as ‘acts of sacrilege’ on the last day of the last session,” Naidu said. “…I am deeply pained to know from media reports of categorical refusals to express any regret for the acts of misconduct during the last session that led to this round of suspensions. Then what is the way forward?”
02-12-2021||India||Army to adopt new combat fatigues next year||NEW DELHI: The Indian Army is set to replace its decades-old battle fatigues with a new combat uniform that will provide soldiers better camouflage, more comfort, and uniformity in design, officials familiar with the matter said on Thursday.The new uniform with the digital camouflage pattern, similar to the one used by the British Army, will be showcased at the 2022 Army Day parade on January 15, said one of the officials cited above. It is expected to be introduced in the army by August 2022, said another official. The digitised print will vary with terrains such as mountains, deserts, and jungles.The new uniform pattern has been selected after a careful study of the army’s working requirements and the need to introduce uniformity in battle fatigues worn by soldiers. Variations in the existing uniform pattern worn by soldiers have drawn criticism from some quarters. The National Institute of Fashion Technology has helped the army finalise the new uniform.Experts said the need for a combat uniform switchover was long felt. “The cloth quality was not that good compared to the uniform of other modern militaries. Also, there was an issue of uniformity of pattern. With the advancement in detection capabilities, it was important to go for digitised prints to achieve proper camouflage,” said former Northern Army commander Lieutenant General BS Jaswal (retd).While soldiers wear the combat uniform in operational areas, officers posted in the Army headquarters in New Delhi also wear the combat dress on Fridays in solidarity with men operating in the forward areas. Unlike in the existing combat uniform, the shirt will not be tucked inside the trouser in the new battle fatigues.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/army-to-adopt-new-combat-fatigues-next-year-101638427161876.html
02-12-2021||India||Parliament: Naidu calls for end to Rajya Sabha stalemate, slams stir over MPs' suspension||Rajya Sabha Chairman M Venkaiah Naidu on Thursday urged the Opposition and government to talk out the ongoing crisis over the suspension of the 12 MPs and let the upper House of Parliament to do its mandated job.Expressing his anguish over repeated adjournments in the Rajya Sabha amid continued uproar by Opposition MPs over the suspension of their colleagues due to their misconduct in the previous session, Naidu said, “You don’t want to regret your misconduct but insist on revoking the decision of this House taken as per due process stipulated under the Rules of the House. Does this amount to upholding the principles of democracy?”“The deputy chairman has urged both sides to talk it out and do the needful to move forward to enable normal functioning of the House… I urge both the sides of this august House to talk it out and let the House do it’s mandated job,” he said.Also read | Oppn leaders wear black bands in protest over MPs suspension, continue stirHe said a message is being sought to be sent out that ‘sacrilege’ of the House is democratic but action against such sacrilege is undemocratic. “I am sure people of the country would not buy this new norms of democracy,” he added.Unfortunately, a message is sought to be sent out that ‘sacrilege’ of the House is democratic but action against such sacrilege is undemocratic. I am sure people of the country would not buy this new norms of democracy: Rajya Sabha Chairman M Venkaiah NaiduNaidu, who is also the Vice President said some Rajya Sabha MPs were describing the suspension as undemocratic, but he failed to understand if there was any justification in that kind of a narrative.He said the latest move was not the first of its kind. “Such suspension of members, starting in 1962 happened on 11 occasions till 2010, further to a Motion moved by governments of the day. Were all of them undemocratic? If so, why was it resorted to so many times?” he added.“Some respected leaders and members of this august House, in their wisdom, chose to describe the suspension of 12 members as ‘undemocratic’. I have struggled to understand if there was any justification in that kind of a narrative being propagated but could not,” Naidu said.“While calling this suspension as undemocratic both within and outside the House, not even a word being said about reasons given for suspension, the disdainful conduct of some members during last session, which I have categorically called as ‘acts of sacrilege’,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/parliament-naidu-appeals-talks-to-end-rs-stalemate-fails-to-understand-suspension-row-101638426690499.html
02-12-2021||India||‘Reflects aspiration for real peace’: CM Rio at launch of 10-day Hornbill Festival||KOHIMA: Nagaland’s iconic Hornbill Festival began Wednesday evening with traditional pomp and gaiety at the Naga Heritage Village Kisama, 10km from the state capital Kohima.The first day of the festival recorded a footfall of 12,400 visitors at Kisama, state tourism officials said. This includes 2,882 domestic tourists and 11 from abroad.Chief minister Neiphiu Rio, the chief host of the 10-day celebration of Nagaland’s indigenous warrior tribes, said after a challenging year due to Covid-19, the state government along with other stakeholders, have put together the 22nd edition of the Hornbill Festival with a renewed zeal to revive the tourism industry and intensify the value to its major stakeholders. “The Hornbill Festival continues to contribute immensely in enhancing the tourism brand of Nagaland and its people as it gathers strength with every edition. Today, it has come a long way, crossing the boundaries of the state onto the global stage where people of all cultures, from all walks of life, gather as one people celebrating the gift of life, of community living, and of humanity. The Hornbill Festival is a team effort: The government of Nagaland and its various departments, community organisations, entrepreneurs, event management teams, youth groups, civil societies and stakeholders work enthusiastically in organising the event,” Rio said in his address at the inaugural event.He said Hornbill Festival celebrates the Naga way of life, showcasing the unity of the Naga tribes and that it reflects their aspiration for real peace. “It (Hornbill Festival) exemplifies the energy, vibrancy and the new-found ambition of the Naga people. Dozens of platforms have attained international recognition and have succeeded in propelling Naga soft power beyond our borders. The icing on the cake is the Hornbill Music Festival, which is the country’s biggest music event,” Rio added.Israel’s Ambassador to India Naor Gilon said his invite to the Hornbill Festival was a reflection of the ties between Israel, India and Nagaland. He said Israel and Nagaland have a deep sense of connection and bond.“The Jewish people who are now celebrating Hanukkah, the victory of the Maccabees around 2000 years ago, also feel close to the tradition of warriors of the Naga tribes. We share the deep commitment to preserve our ancient culture while encouraging the development of modern culture,” the diplomat stated.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/reflects-aspiration-for-real-peace-cm-rio-at-launch-of-10-day-hornbill-festival-101638425481585.html
02-12-2021||India||‘Elders have work from home and children have to go to school’: CJI pulls up Delhi govt||The Supreme Court on Thursday rapped the Delhi government for reopening schools and subjecting children to pollution-related health hazards, while the government has allowed work from home for its employees. Asking Centre, Delhi to take concrete steps to curb pollution, the Supreme Court gave a 24-hour deadline to Delhi and the Centre to come up a plan of real action. "We take your statements in court seriously and true. One thing you told was schools are closed. But schools are not closed. Small children have to go in morning in fog. There’s no respect? See today’s paper. Children are going. I know children who are going to school. Don’t attract orders. Everything we need not tell you. We respect you. So elders have work from home and children have to go to school?" Chief Justice NV Ramana said hearing a case related to Delhi's air pollution.With list of dos and don’ts, Delhi pollution body asks residents to join air pollution fightDelhi government suspended physical classes in schools when the pollution level in the city reached its peak. From November 29, physical classes have resumed with many schools holding exams."We feel there is nothing happening, in spite of air pollution levels rising," the Apex Court observed."As a layman, I am asking this. The question is the day when the matter started, we started monitoring, you started making loud statements. If so many efforts were implemented, you think pollution would have gone further?" the CJI asked.Senior advocate Abhishek Singhvi, appearing for the Delhi government said only willing parents are sending their kids to schools. "If your lordship says, we will stop that," Singhvi said,"Don't use our shoulder. You are the government, you have to take action. You are saying whoever wants to come, come; you want to stay at home, stay. If you give an option, everyone will come, who wants to stay at home," the CJI said.The pollution levels in Delhi worsened on Thursday as air quality went into the severe category from Wednesday's 'very poor'. According to the Central Pollution Control Board’ (CPCB) website, the hourly air quality index (AQI)) of Delhi stood at 416 at 7 am on Thursday. The average 24-hour AQI of the city on Wednesday was 370.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/elders-have-wfh-and-children-have-to-go-to-school-cji-pulls-up-delhi-govt-101638424124522.html
02-12-2021||India||Oppn leaders wear black bands in protest over MPs suspension, continue stir||Members of Opposition parties continued their protest near a statue of Mahatma Gandhi on Parliament premises on Thursday demanding revocation of suspension of MPs from the remainder of the session.Opposition leaders were seen wearing black bands in protest. Among those taking part in the protest were Congress leaders Rahul Gandhi, Mallikarjun Kharge, Adhir Ranjan Chowdhury, KC Venugopal and Trinamool Congress MP Dola Sen.The Opposition MPs were carrying banners and posters with slogans reading "Save India", “Save democracy” and "BJP killing democracy".#WATCH | Congress MP Rahul Gandhi joins the Opposition leaders' protest against the suspension of 12 Opposition members of Rajya Sabha, in Delhi pic.twitter.com/w7Y1gSLTymMembers of Opposition parties continued their protest near a statue of Mahatma Gandhi on Parliament premises on Thursday demanding revocation of suspension of MPs from the remainder of the session.Opposition leaders were seen wearing black bands in protest. Among those taking part in the protest were Congress leaders Rahul Gandhi, Mallikarjun Kharge, Adhir Ranjan Chowdhury, KC Venugopal and Trinamool Congress MP Dola Sen.The Opposition MPs were carrying banners and posters with slogans reading "Save India", “Save democracy” and "BJP killing democracy".|#+|As many as 12 MPs from the opposition parties were suspended from Parliament's winter session for allegedly creating ruckus on the last day of the Monsoon Session.The suspended MPs include six from the Congress, two each from the TMC and Shiv Sena and one each from CPM and CPI. They are Elamaram Kareem (CPM), Phulo Devi Netam, Chhaya Verma, R Bora, Rajamani Patel, Syed Nasir Hussain and Akhilesh Prasad Singh of the Congress, Binoy Viswam of the CPI, Dola Sen and Shanta Chhetri of the Trinamool Congress, Priyanka Chaturvedi and Anil Desai of the Shiv Sena.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/oppn-leaders-wear-black-bands-in-protest-over-mps-suspension-continue-stir-101638423249909.html
02-12-2021||India||'Till when...': Varun Gandhi raises unemployment issue in latest criticism aimed at Centre, UP govt||In a veiled criticism of the Centre and the Uttar Pradesh government, Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) MP Varun Gandhi on Thursday raised the issue of unemployment. Varun Gandhi, who has been critical of his own party over several policy matters, took to Twitter to raise issues of the delays, scams, and paper leaks in the recruitment processes.The Lok Sabha MP from the Pilibhit constituency has intensified his criticism of the governments in Uttar Pradesh and at the Centre, both led by the BJP, after the reports of the Uttar Pradesh Teacher Eligibility Test (UPTET) examination paper leak emerged last month. Highlighting a series of obstacles faced by the youth, Gandhi said that about 1.25 crore applicants of Railway Group D are waiting for the results for two years.“First, there is no government job, yet if some chance comes, the paper gets leaked, if you give the exam, you don't have the result for years, then get cancelled in some scam. 1.25 Crore youth of Railway Group D are waiting for the results for two years. The same is true of recruitment in the army. Till when should the youth of India be patient?” the BJP MP tweeted in Hindi.पहले तो सरकारी नौकरी ही नहीं है, फिर भी कुछ मौका आए तो पेपर लीक हो, परीक्षा दे दी तो सालों साल रिजल्ट नहीं, फिर किसी घोटाले में रद्द हो। रेलवे ग्रुप डी के सवा करोड़ नौजवान दो साल से परिणामों के इंतज़ार में हैं। सेना में भर्ती का भी वही हाल है। आखिर कब तक सब्र करे भारत का नौजवान??The UPTET 2021 examination scheduled for last Sunday was cancelled due to an alleged paper leak. After the cancellation, Prashant Kumar, Additional Director General (ADG), Law and Order, said that at least 23 people have been arrested in connection with the paper leak. Amid the state government’s assurance of investigation by the Special Task Force, Gandhi demanded strict action against the “education mafia” and their “political patrons”."UPTET exam paper leak is like playing with the future of lakhs of youth. Action on small fish of this swamp will not work. Government should take strict action against the education mafia and their political patrons. Most of the educational institutions are owned by political influencers, when will action be taken against them?" Gandhi wrote on Twitter in Hindi.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/till-when-varun-gandhi-raises-unemployment-issue-in-latest-criticism-aimed-at-centre-up-govt-101638421572885.html
02-12-2021||India||Can't see Congress securing 300 seats in 2024 Lok Sabha polls, says Ghulam Nabi Azad||Congress veteran Ghulam Nabi Azad on Wednesday said he does not see his party winning 300 seats in the Parliamentary elections of 2024. Speaking at a gathering in Poonch district of Jammu and Kashmir, Azad said that "only the Supreme Court can decide on reversing the abrogation of Article 370" in Jammu and Kashmir or the Congress "has to come to power with 300-plus seats but he does not see that happening".However, the former chief minister of Jammu and Kashmir added that he prays the grand old party manages to secure over 300 seats in the next elections."Only the Supreme Court can decide on Article 370. Besides the apex court, only the ruling government can do it. The current government has abrogated it, how will they do it? And I cannot assure you that Congress will win 300 seats in the 2024 elections. I pray that Congress wins 300 seats but I don't see that happening now," the Congress leader was quoted as saying.The former Rajya Sabha MP’s statement came at a time when the Congress is facing a serious crisis of inner tussles besides a lot of leaders jumping ship in search of greener pastures. The party is also struggling to stitch a united Opposition during the ongoing winter session of Parliament.On Wednesday, West Bengal chief minister and Trinamool Congress supremo Mamata Banerjee said the United Progressive Alliance (UPA) does not exist anymore. "What is UPA? There is no UPA," said Banerjee. “Considering today’s situation and the ongoing fascism, a strong alternative force is required in the country against it. No one can do it alone. We all need a strong alternative and if someone is not ready to fight, then what can be done,” she said.She said this after a meeting with Nationalist Congress Party (NCP) chief Sharad Pawar in Mumbai to make a pitch for a united front of opposition parties against the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP).The central government led by BJP had abrogated Article 370 in Jammu and Kashmir in 2019 and bifurcated it into two Union Territories. The government has said that the statehood of Jammu and Kashmir will be restored at an appropriate time.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/cant-see-congress-securing-300-seats-in-2024-lok-sabha-polls-says-ghulam-nabi-101638421666703.html
02-12-2021||India||Temples not an election issue for BJP, says UP deputy CM Maurya over Mathura row||Uttar Pradesh deputy chief minister Keshav Prasad Maurya said on Thursday temples and corridors are not election issues for the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP).Reiterating his controversial statement in a tweet wherein he spoke about a grand temple in Mathura, Maurya said while a grand Ram temple is being constructed in Ayodhya and work is underway on the Kashi Vishwanath corridor project in Varanasi, wait is on for the construction of a temple at Krishna Janmabhoomi in Mathura.A grand Ram Temple is being constructed in Ayodhya, work on Kashi Vishwanath Corridor Project in underway in Varanasi and now we are awaiting construction of a temple at Krishna Janmabhoomi in Mathura. For BJP, these are not election issues: Deputy CM KP Maurya on his tweet pic.twitter.com/CMrjJQAxFwMathura is considered to be the birthplace of Lord Krishna. The supposed temple site, a subject of multiple lawsuits, is located inside an Aurangzeb-era mosque in Mathura and shares its premises with a prominent temple.Maurya’s repeated statements on the issue that came despite prohibitory orders being in place in the temple town is likely to have been made in view of the upcoming Assembly election in the state.On November 28, the Mathura district administration imposed prohibitory orders under CrPC Section 144 following an announcement by the Akhil Bharat Hindu Mahasabha to install a Krishna idol at the deity's “actual birthplace”, which it claims is inside the mosque.“Nobody will be allowed to disturb the peace and tranquility in Mathura,” district magistrate Navneet Singh Chahal had said then.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/temples-not-an-election-issue-for-bjp-says-up-deputy-cm-maurya-over-mathura-row-101638420482584.html
02-12-2021||India||‘UPA will be a body without…’: Kapil Sibal replies to Mamata's ‘what is UPA’||Senior Congress leader Kapil Sibal on Thursday said without the Congress, the UPA will be a body without a soul, a day after West Bengal chief minister and Trinamool Congress chief Mamata Banerjee said there was no United Progressive Alliance left in the country. It is time to show opposition unity, Kapil Sibal tweeted on Thursday morning, without referring to Mamata's comment.Senior Congress leader Kapil Sibal on Thursday said without the Congress, the UPA will be a body without a soul, a day after West Bengal chief minister and Trinamool Congress chief Mamata Banerjee said there was no United Progressive Alliance left in the country. It is time to show opposition unity, Kapil Sibal tweeted on Thursday morning, without referring to Mamata's comment.|#+| UPAWithout the Congress , UPA will be a body without a soul Time to show opposition unity"A firm alternative course should be made as nobody's fighting against ongoing fascism. Sharad Ji is the senior-most leader and I came to discuss our political parties. I agree with whatever Sharad Ji said. There is no UPA," Banerjee said after meeting Nationalist Congress Party chief Sharad Pawar in Mumbai. Mamata Banerjee, who is believed to have been harbouring a national aspiration, also met members of civil society in Mumbai, where she raised issues like the victimisation of celebrities by the NDA. “I know Mahesh Bhatt is victimised, Shah Rukh is victimised. There are many more... Some can open their mouths and some can't,” Mamata said.In what is being seen as a veiled dig at Rahul Gandhi, Mamata said continuous endeavours are needed in politics. "You can't be abroad most of the time," she said. The comment at a time when several disgruntled Congress leaders are switching to the Trinamool stirred a row. Congress leaders reacted sharply to Mamata's assertion, as KC Venugopal said it is merely a dream to think that anybody can defeat the BJP without Congress. "No individual party can fight against BJP by directly or indirectly criticising Rahul Gandhi if that party continues to think about its political gain and personal ambitions. The Congress is the only viable option for the country and the democracy," Maharashtra minister and Congress leader Balasaheb Thorat said. “Rahul Gandhi and his entire family were subjected to personal attacks by BJP and other parties. Defamatory campaigns were carried out against him, but Rahul Gandhi did not back down,” Thorat said. “India has seen and supported the aggressive stand the Congress had taken for the withdrawal of the anti-people law of land acquisition and three black farm laws. In future also, this fight for the rights of the common people will continue under the able and strong leadership of Congress president Sonia Gandhi and our leader Rahul Gandhi,” Maharashtra Congress leader Ashok Chavan said. Leader of Opposition in the Rajya Sabha Mallikarjun Kharge on Thursday said the opposition should not get divided and fight amongst themselves. "We've tried to include them in various socio-political issues where Congress made its name," Kharge said.As Mamata interacted with the members of civil society, she said she had suggested to the Congress that an advisory council of prominent personalities from civil society be set up to give a direction to the opposition, but it was not heeded. Defending Mamata's ‘What is UPA’ comment, Trinamool MP Derek O'Brien said Trinamool is a political party and not a football club. "We have to fight elections. We have a right to expand," Derek said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/upa-will-be-a-body-without-kapil-sibal-replies-to-mamata-s-what-is-upa-101638418947483.html
02-12-2021||India||‘Form a media council’: Parliamentary committee led by Tharoor tells government||The Parliamentary Standing Committee on Communications and Information Technology, led by Congress lawmaker Shashi Tharoor, has recommended the establishment of a media commission to address issues facing the media industry.The panel has recommended the commission should include experts for wider consultations among the interested groups and stakeholders to evolve a consensus in this regard.In its report titled “Ethical Standards in Media Coverage”, the panel asked the government to “bestow utmost importance to the freedom and independence of media so that they cover news as impartially as possible without fear and favour”. “It is also incumbent upon the government to ensure the necessary legal and social framework which may encourage the media to respect and follow established values of their profession.”The panel recommended the setting up of a media council with statutory powers over print, television and digital media platforms. It said the current regulatory bodies such as the News Broadcasting Standards Authority (NBSA) are not as effective, and that their “efficacy is limited”. The panel said the NBSA, a self-regulatory body, “depends on voluntary compliance with its orders”.The panel reiterated the Press Council of India’s suggestion to bring e-newspapers, news portals, social media, and other platforms under regulatory control. It also referred to a discussion over an umbrella statute for the entire broadcasting sector covering print, electronic and online media.The panel expressed concern over the circulation of widespread fake news on social media and digital news platforms. It appreciated the establishment of Fact Check Units at 17 regional offices of Press Information Bureau. The panel asked the government to open more such offices. It called for a need to broadly define the term “fake news”.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/form-a-media-council-parliamentary-committee-led-by-tharoor-tells-government-101638419601125.html
02-12-2021||India||India's daily Covid-19 rises for 2nd consecutive day amid Omicron scare||The daily Covid-19 tally of India increased for the second consecutive day on Thursday as the country reported 9,765 new cases in the last 24 hours, according to the numbers updated on the Union ministry of health family welfare's website. On Wednesday, there were 8,954 cases of infections, a jump of 1,964 cases than Tuesday's, when it had logged 6,990 cases. It was the lowest in the last 551 days.The active caseload remained below the 1 lakh mark and now stands at 99,763. Active cases account for less than 1% of total cases, currently at 0.29%. It is the lowest since March 2020.The recovery rate is currently at 98.35%, the health ministry also mentioned. According to the data, 8,548 people were recuperated from the disease in the last 24 hours, pushing the total recoveries to reach 34,037,054.Notably, the daily positivity rate (0.89%) has been less than 2% for the last 59 days, while the weekly positivity rate (0.85%) is less than 1% for the last 18 days.The country has conducted 64.35 crore total tests so far, the health ministry also informed in its daily health bulletin. On the vaccination front, India has administered 124.96 crore doses so far.The uptick in cases comes as the country along with the world is facing the threat of Omicron, a highly contagious mutation of the coronavirus, first detected in South Africa. On Wednesday, six international passengers tested positive for the Covid-19 out of 3,476 passengers from the countries designated as "at-risk" by the Indian government.They were tested on arrival at airports across the country as the Centre’s revised guidelines for Covid testing came into effect. The samples of all six have been sent for whole-genome sequencing to confirm Omicron infection.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/indias-daily-covid-19-rises-for-2nd-consecutive-day-amid-omicron-scare-101638418616594.html
02-12-2021||India||Depression over Bay of Bengal to intensify into cyclone in next 24 hours: IMD||A low-pressure area over the southeast Bay of Bengal and the Andaman Sea is likely to move west-northwestwards and concentrate into a depression over the southeast and the east-central Bay of Bengal on Thursday. The India Meteorological Department (IMD) said the depression will intensify into cyclonic storm Jawad over the central Bay of Bengal during the subsequent 24 hours. The cyclone is likely to move northwestwards, intensify and reach north Andhra Pradesh–Odisha coasts around Saturday morning.The IMD said heavy to very heavy rain is expected in coastal Andhra Pradesh, Odisha, and Gangetic West Bengal over the weekend due to the cyclone.Scattered rain and thunderstorms were expected in parts of northwest India, including Uttarakhand, Himachal Pradesh, Punjab, and the rest of northwestern plains on Thursday, the IMD said.A cyclonic circulation over the east-central Arabian sea and a trough in lower levels are running from the southeast Arabian Sea to Kutch. A western disturbance is lying as a trough in mid and upper tropospheric westerlies.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/depression-over-bay-of-bengal-to-intensify-into-cyclone-in-next-24-hours-imd-101638418341006.html
02-12-2021||India||News updates from HT: Complaint filed against Mamata Banerjee for ‘insulting national anthem', and all the latest news||Here are today’s top news, analysis and opinion. Know all about the latest news and other news updates from Hindustan Times.Samples of 6 international fliers who tested Covid positive sent for genome sequencingSix international passengers tested positive for the Coronavirus disease (Covid-19) out of 3,476 passengers from the so-called at risk countries tested on arrival at airports across the country on December 1, the first day of implementation of the Centre’s revised guidelines for Covid testing, according to a government statement. Read more…BJP leader files police complaint against Mamata Banerjee for 'insulting national anthem' in MumbaiThe BJP has slammed West Bengal chief minister Mamata Banerjee for allegedly disrespecting the national anthem after she was seen standing up midway of the national anthem during a press conference in Mumbai on Wednesday. Read more…Jaish's IED expert, Pak terrorist killed in encounter with forces in PulwamaJaish's IED expert, Pakistan terrorist killed in encounter with Indian forces in J&K’s Pulwama. The encounter took place at Qasbayar area of the south Kashmir district on Wednesday. One of them has been identified as Yasir Parray, an IED expert. The other has been identified as Abu Furkan alias Ali bhai, a resident of Pakistan. Watch for full storyTrump tested Covid positive days before 1st presidential debate, reveals bookFormer US President Donald Trump had tested positive for the coronavirus disease, days before his maiden presidential debate with challenger Joe Biden last year, according to a new book which is written by his then-chief of staff Mark Meadows. Read more…'It'll be our endeavour to go and try for him': CSK CEO confirms Chennai will attempt to bring back ex-star in IPL 2022Chennai Super Kings on Wednesday retained their captain Mahendra Singh Dhoni, Ravindra Jadeja, and Ruturaj Gaikwad among their Indian contingent, with Moeen Ali being the sole overseas retention for the 2022 Indian Premier League. There were many notable absentees in the four-player list - the major being South Africa's Faf du Plessis. Read more…Nokia 3310 that you can eat! Know what's special about this oneThe Nokia 3310 is deemed indestructible, right? Nokia's original “brick phone” has achieved a cult status over the years of flying out unscathed from durability tests. HMD Global, the company that makes Nokia phones now, has now come up with a Nokia 3310 that can be destroyed. It is, in fact so delicate that you can use a knife to cut it and gulp it down. Read more…Inside Priyanka Chopra and Nick Jonas’ anniversary celebration in London: Candles, roses and ‘forever’Priyanka Chopra and Nick Jonas celebrated their third wedding anniversary in London with a romantic candlelight dinner. He took to Instagram to share a video, which showed her beaming as she sat at a table with candles and flowers on it. Larger candles and rose petals adorned the floor. Read more…||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/news-updates-from-ht-complaint-filed-against-mamata-banerjee-for-insulting-national-anthem-and-all-the-latest-news-101638413608485.html
02-12-2021||NA||Parliament Highlights: Surya says Rahul Gandhi did not sound like a responsible leader||Sloganeering and disruptions in Rajya Sabha continued on Wednesday over the suspension of 12 of its members while Lok Sabha passed the Assisted Reproductive Technology (Regulation) Bill. The bill tabled in the Lower House by Union health minister Mansukh Mandaviya proposes the setting up of a national registry and registration authority for clinics and medical professionals serving in the industry. The suspended Rajya Sabha MPs sat on a protest in front of Mahatma Gandhi's statue in Parliament premises. The government has demanded an apology from the suspended members. "It is regrettable that the Leader of Opposition lowered the dignity of the House by making allegations regarding the suspension of 12 MPs," Leader of the House in Rajya Sabha Piyush Goyal said, demanding that the suspended MPs apologise.Follow all the updates here:Karti Chidambaram says govt needs to make sure Made in India vaccines are acceptedThe Sivaganga MP claimed that Austria recently said that it will not allow ‘Made in India vaccines’. Rahul Gandhi does not sound like a responsible leader: Tejaswi SuryaThe Karnataka MP says Rahul Gandhi sounds like a ‘doomsday predicting witch doctor’. He claims Opposition behaved in a petty manner and accused them of spurring vaccine hesitancy among citizens. Vikhe Patil says that viral mutations as well as viral news pose problems to the nationVikhepatil, says that he himself is a doctor, he says the virus is an RNA virus and it is in its nature to mutate. He says people should not become ‘doctors’ amid the pandemic, bats for global vaccination. Sujay Vikhepatil says Opposition looking at every step taken by govt with prism of politicsThe BJP MP from Maharashtra says Opposition MPs did not take the vaccine until PM Modi himself got vaccinated. He says the opposition leaders who themselves were hesitant are now asking if vaccines are working. Navneet Rana says govt should help those who businesses shutdownThe independent MP says that govt, both central and state, should help businesses which shut down during Covid. She said that the govt should take more steps to stop Omicron spread. Rahul Shewale of Sena says ‘Dharavi Model’ is a success storyThe Sena MP says less number of infections in Dharavi, Asia's largest slum, shows that the system followed in order to prevent more Covid-19 infections led to it being a model in terms of Covid prevention. BJP's Rajiv Pratap Rudy says govt learnt lessons and is prepared to deal with challenges Covid will presentBJP MP Rajiv Pratap Rudy says government during the pandemic learnt from the challenges and is fully equipped to tackle any eventualities. Dam Safety Bill, 2021 passed in Rajya SabhaThe Dam Safety Bill, 2021 passed in Upper HouseAdhir Ranjan Chowdhury says amid Omicron scare govt should fully vaccinate everyoneThe Congress leader says govt needs to vaccinate its target population and inform the House on latest steps taken to tackle Omicron surge. In critical cases, states will have representation: Union Jal Shakti ministerShekhawat assures Opposition MPs that states will have state committees will have adequate representation if the Bill is passed. CPI(M)'s Ariff says SC's picture should be vaccine certificateThe Kerala MP says the apex court intervened and made sure pharma companies did not charge state governments inexorbitant prices for the vaccines. Jagdambika Pal says India under Modi fought effectively against CovidJagdambika Pal says India earlier needed to import medical essentials. He says India turned crisis into opportunity and became number one in exporting PPE kits and also gave vaccines to several nations. If we follow what you are asking us to, states will become antiques: Manoj JhaThe RJD MP says Centre will have the power to amend functions of state committees, formed if the legislation is passed, through a notification, which in turn undermines the authority of the ParliamentRahul Gandhi meets 12 suspended MPsCongress leader Rahul Gandhi meets 12 MPs suspended for alleged ‘unruly’ behaviour. YSRCP V Vjiaysai Reddy says passing of Dam Safety Bill necessaryReddy says the bill needs to be passed in order to ensure that dams remain safe and safety checks can be done in order to ensure proper functioning of dams. No time safety for parliament members: Prasanna Acharya, BJDThe Odisha MP quips when he asks the Chair regarding the time allotted to speak. 'Discussion is on dam safety bill, but there is no time safety for members," Acharya says, sharing a light moment. DMK's TKS Elangovan says dams are state subject and Centre cannot make legislationElangovan says states can decide between themselves regarding dam safety and the owner of the dams are states, citing example of dams in Tamil Nadu and its water issues with neighboring states. TMC's Nadimul Haque asks the Dam Safety Bill to be sent to select committeeTMC MP Haque says that the Dam Safety Bill is contentious and should be sent to Select Committee. Gogoi asks data on how may divyangs received benefits from govt during Covid-19Gogoi asks the govt data on divyangs receiving vaccines and items under PDS. He accuses the govt of saving the image of one ‘man’. He also claims certain BJP MPs of not being strict on implementing steps to prevent Covid from spreading. Lok Sabha resumes, discussion begins on Covid-19 and various aspects related to itLok Sabha resumes, Congress' Gaurav Gogoi asks govt if it has data on how many distress calls it received from women and children during the pandemic-induced lockdownsCongress' Gohil says Centre cannot make rules on drainage, flow of waterGohil says people may ask that the Bill was introduced by Congress itself on 2010, but highlights that in the preamble it was highlighted that the central government cannot make a law for the states. RS resumes, discussion continues on Dam Safety BillThe bill will lead to constitution of National Committee on Dam Safety and National Dam Safety Authority, the first will will form policies and recommend regulations to the latter while the latter will implement the policies advised to it. State Committee on Dam Safety and State Dam Safety Authority will also be constituted.  Parliamentarian Tiruchi Siva says he wants the bill to be sent to Select Committee. Opposition parties including Congress, TMC walkout from Rajya Sabha over various issuesCongress, NCP, RJD, TRS and IUML stage walkout from Rajya Sabha over the issue of inflation. Trinamool Congress also followed the suit over various issues including the suspension of 12 Opposition MPs.Rajya Sabha adjourned till 12 noonRajya Sabha has been adjourned till 12 noon after Opposition MPs continued their protest in the House against the suspension of 12 members.Rahul Gandhi joins protest along with TMC, other Opposition MPs#WATCH | Congress MP Rahul Gandhi joins the Opposition leaders' protest against the suspension of 12 Opposition members of Rajya Sabha, in Delhi pic.twitter.com/w7Y1gSLTymCongress leader Rahul Gandhi has joined leaders of Opposition, including the TMC, in the protest against the suspension of 12 Rajya Sabha MPs. Govt to move the 'Dam Safety Bill 2019' in Rajya Sabha for further consideration and passageUnion minister Gajendra Singh Shekhawat will move the 'Dam Safety Bill 2019' in Rajya Sabha today for further consideration and passage. Rajya Sabha MP T. Siva has given a notice to send 'Dam Safety Bill 2019' to the Select Committee.Manish Tewari gives adjournment Motion Notice in Lok Sabha on issue of 'rising inflation'Congress MP Manish Tewari has given adjournment Motion Notice in Lok Sabha on the issue of 'rising inflation'.RJD's Manoj Kumar Jha gives Zero Hour Notice in Rajya Sabha on 'caste-based census' issueRajya Sabha member Manoj Kumar Jha has given Zero Hour Notice on the matter of 'caste-based census'. Bihar chief minister Nitish Kumar has also been demanding a caste-based census.Lok Sabha to have a discussion on Covid-19 pandemic todayAmid concerns over the Omicron variant, Lok Sabha will have a discussion on the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) pandemic today. The discussion will be held under Rule 193.Govt to introduce The National Institute of Pharmaceutical Education and Research (Amendment) Bill, 2021 in Lok SabhaUnion health minister Mansukh Mandaviya will introduce The National Institute of Pharmaceutical Education and Research (Amendment) Bill, 2021 in Lok Sabha today.TRS MP gives adjournment notice in Lok Sabha to discuss legal guarantee for MSP to farmersTRS MP Nama Nageswara Rao has given an adjournment motion notice in Lok Sabha to discuss the issue of "national policy on foodgrains procurement and legal guarantee for Minimum Support Price to farmers."Adjournment notice given in Lok Sabha to discuss damage in TN due to floodsCongress MP Manickam Tagore has given adjournment motion notice in Lok Sabha to "discuss damage followed by heavy floods & excessive rainfall in Tamil Nadu, to direct the Govt to announce compensation of ₹4,626 cr flood relief for affected farmers & people who lost their property."||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/parliament-winter-session-2021-live-updates-december-2-101638411293574.html
02-12-2021||India||Video of official shouting at visa applicant in New York goes viral, consulate responds||A video of an officer at the Indian consulate in New York screaming at a visa applicant has gone viral on social media prompting action from the Consul General of India, New York. Though the video surfaced in the last week of November and the Consul General promised an investigation into the incident at that time, the video is being shared on social media and people are coming up with their experiences of visa troubles.
02-12-2021||India||BJP leader files police complaint against Mamata Banerjee for 'insulting national anthem' in Mumbai||The BJP has slammed West Bengal chief minister Mamata Banerjee for allegedly disrespecting the national anthem after she was seen standing up midway of the national anthem during a press conference in Mumbai on Wednesday. In videos doing rounds on social media platforms, Mamata can be seen sitting again finishing the anthem abruptly. The BJP has slammed West Bengal chief minister Mamata Banerjee for allegedly disrespecting the national anthem after she was seen standing up midway of the national anthem during a press conference in Mumbai on Wednesday. In videos doing rounds on social media platforms, Mamata can be seen sitting again finishing the anthem abruptly. |#+|A leader of Mumbai BJP has also filed police complaint against Banerjee for "showing utter disrespect to national anthem" by allegedly singing it while in sitting position and then "abruptly stopping after 4 or 5 verses," according to a report by news agency ANI.The BJP has slammed West Bengal chief minister Mamata Banerjee for allegedly disrespecting the national anthem after she was seen standing up midway of the national anthem during a press conference in Mumbai on Wednesday. In videos doing rounds on social media platforms, Mamata can be seen sitting again finishing the anthem abruptly. A leader of Mumbai BJP has also filed police complaint against Banerjee for "showing utter disrespect to national anthem" by allegedly singing it while in sitting position and then "abruptly stopping after 4 or 5 verses," according to a report by news agency ANI.The BJP has slammed West Bengal chief minister Mamata Banerjee for allegedly disrespecting the national anthem after she was seen standing up midway of the national anthem during a press conference in Mumbai on Wednesday. In videos doing rounds on social media platforms, Mamata can be seen sitting again finishing the anthem abruptly. A leader of Mumbai BJP has also filed police complaint against Banerjee for "showing utter disrespect to national anthem" by allegedly singing it while in sitting position and then "abruptly stopping after 4 or 5 verses," according to a report by news agency ANI.|#+|On Wednesday, the Trinamool Congress (TMC) supremo was in Mumbai to meet Nationalist Congress Party (NCP) chief  Sharad Pawar to make a pitch for unifying opposition parties against the ruling BJP at the Centre.She also addressed a press conference, during which she sang the national anthem, but stopped midway and concluded by saying "Jai Maharashtra. "Today, as a Chief Minister, she has insulted the culture of Bengal, the national anthem and the country, and Gurudev Rabindranath Tagore!" tweeted the West Bengal BJP unit as it shared the 16-seconds clip showing Banerjee singing the national anthem.Following this, more BJP leaders also came out to slam the leader. "Our national anthem is one of the most powerful manifestations of our national identity. The least people holding public office can do is not demean it. Here is a mutilated version of our national anthem sung by Bengal CM. Is India's opposition so bereft of pride and patriotism?" tweeted BJP leader Amit Malviya.|#+|BJP West Bengal President Dr Sukanta Majumdar also took to the microblogging site and questioned whether the West Bengal chief minister committed the act "knowingly". "Bengal CM Mamata sitting at a constitution post insults the National Anthem at a gathering in Mumbai. Doesn't she know proper National Anthem etiquette or is she insulting knowingly?" Majumdar wrote on Twitter.Maharashtra BJP leader Pratik Karpe also took shots and said, "Isn't this demeaning National Anthem? What were the so-called intellectuals present doing when CM Mamata started the National Anthem in a sitting position. Not only that, then she went ahead and abruptly stopped it in between."No TMC leader has reacted to the incident as of yet.Meanwhile, with an eye on Delhi, the TMC chief on Wednesday met Pawar at his residence on the second day of her three-day visit to Mumbai.Following the meeting, Banerjee said that there was no United Progressive Alliance (UPA) left in the country as he asked opposition parties to come together to oust the BJP at the Centre."What is UPA? There is no UPA," said Banerjee. “Considering today’s situation and the ongoing fascism, a strong alternative force is required in the country against it. No one can do it alone. We all need a strong alternative and if someone is not ready to fight, then what can be done,” she also said without naming Congress.On Tuesday, Banerjee met leaders of the Shiv Sena, the biggest constituent of Maharashtra’s ruling alliance that also comprises the NCP and Congress.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/bjp-targets-mamata-banerjee-for-insulting-national-anthem-in-mumbai-101638405933657.html
02-12-2021||NA||Highlights: 27 students of Telangana welfare school test positive for Covid-19||Welcome to hindustantimes.com live updates platform where you can find breaking news from India and across the world. Find fast updates about the latest news as it breaks.Missed an important news update? Worried about what is happening in the world of finance and how it will impact you? Want to know about the latest update on Covid-19? Don't worry, we have you covered.Follow all the updates here:27 students of Telangana welfare school test positive for Covid-19As many as 27 students of Mahatma Jyothirao Phule Backward Classes Welfare School, in Telangana's Sangareddy district tested positive for Covid-19 on Thursday, ANI reported citing the DMHO. This comes after 46 students from the same district tested positive for the virus on Monday.UN headquarters cordoned off as armed man seen outsideThe United Nations (UN) headquarters have been cordoned off as armed man seen outside, AFP reported quoting official.Uttarakhand CM inspected Dehradun's Parade Ground ahead of PM's visit on December 4Uttarakhand chief minister Pushkar Singh Dhami on Thursday inspected the Parade Ground in capital city Dehradun to take stock of the arrangements ahead of the Prime Minister Narendra Modi's visit on December 4, ANI reported citing the chief minister's office.Three close contacts of international passengers found Covid-19 positive in Maharashtra: State govtAs many as three close contacts of international passengers have been found to be Covid-19 positive in Maharashtra, state government informed on Thursday, according to ANI. “Until today morning, 861 international passengers have been tested with RT-PCR…Samples of all three have been sent for genomic sequencing,” the ANI report, citing the government, added. Read more here.5 contacts of Karnataka Omicron patient test Covid-19 positiveAs many as five contacts of a 46-year-old doctor, who was found to be infected with Omicron Covid-19 variant earlier in the day, have tested positive for Covid-19. “So a total of six people (including the doctor himself) have been isolated, admitted to government hospital. None of them showing any serious symptoms. All these people are fully vaccinated,” Karnataka health Mmnister Dr K Sudhakar told ANI.Germany to impose new restrictions for unvaccinated, says MerkelGermany will impose new curbs for those who are still unvaccinated against Covid-19, AFP reported quoting Chanceller Angela Merkel.Param Bir Singh suspended due to dereliction in dutyFormer Mumbai Police commissioner Param Bir Singh suspended under section 4 of the All India Services Rules for dereliction in duty. The proceeding was initiated for the irregularities and lapses, including absence from duty, without informing the government, according to the order. Full vaccination or negative RT-PCR test report mandatory for domestic air travel in MaharashtraMaharashtra government on Thursday revised its guidelines for passengers arriving in the state. For domestic air travel, passengers will either have to be completely vaccinated against Covid-19 or mandatorily carry RT-PCR test report showing negative result within 72 hours before boarding the flight. The guidelines come as Omicron Covid-19 variant entered India with two cases being from Karnataka.If AAP comes to power in Punjab, people from the US, London, Canada will come to see govt schools in the state: KejriwalLast year when Melania Trump visited Delhi, she wanted to see the govt schools in Delhi. Delhi government schools are popular even in America. If AAP comes to power in Punjab, people from America, Canada, and London will come to see government schools in Punjab: Arvind Kejriwal pic.twitter.com/UAh6aRebbtAam Aadmi Party (AAP) supremo and Delhi chief minister Arvind Kejriwal said on Thursday that if his party comes to power in Punjab, people from Canada, London and the US will come to see government schools in the north Indian state.Increased vaccination ‘need of the hour’: ICMR amid Omicron Covid-19 variant detection in IndiaIncreased vaccination against Covid-19 is the “need of the hour,” ICMR director general Balram Bhargava said during a press briefing on Thursday. He also emphasised on getting inoculated with both doses of Covid-19 vaccines. Read more here.Antony Blinken urges Russia to 'de-escalate' on Ukraine, reports AFPUS Secretary of State Antony Blinken urges Russia to 'de-escalate' on Ukraine, AFP reported on Wednesday.Omicron variant detected in India, two positive cases in KarnatakaIndia confirmed cases of Omicron Covid-19 variant on Wednesday with two people testing positive for the strain from Karnataka.‘Changi government’: Punjab CM Channi presents his report card of 50 days in the chairPunjab CM Charanjit Channi on Thursday presented his report card of 50 days in the chair wherein he said that as many as 50 “pro-people” decisions have so far been taken in his tenue and also implemented. “People say it's Channi government, I say it's changi (good) government,” he added.‘Pakistan ko uske ghar me ghuskar maara’: Shah on surgical strikeAmit Shah said that the current central government under PM Narendra Modi did surgical strike after Uri and Pulwama incidents. “Pakistan ko uske ghar me ghuskar maara,” the Union home minister said, alleging that PM Modi established honour of India in the world.Crime rate 70% less in UP under Yogi's rule as opposed to SP rule: ShahUnion home minister Amit Shah said on Thursday that crime rate in Uttar Pradesh under BJP chief minister Yogi Adityanath is 70 per cent less than what it was under the Samajwadi Party's (SP) regime previously. “Incidents of murder 30 per cent less, loot 69 per cent less, and murder for dowry 22.5 percent less,” Shah added.‘No daughter in western UP has to go outside for studies’: Amit ShahUnion home minister and BJP leader Amit Shah on Thursday said that no daughter of western Uttar Pradesh has to go to other states for studies anymore. His remarks come after he laid the foundation stone of Ma Shakumbhari Devi State university in Saharanpur district in western UP. “There was a time when not only riots occurred here but our daughters had also to be sent to other states for studies because there was no security here. Today…nobody dares to misbehave with them (daughters),” Shah was quoted as saying by ANI.NCP's working committee meeting to be held on Dec 7 in DelhiA meeting of the Nationalist Congress Party (NCP's) working committee chaired by party president Sharad Pawar is scheduled to be held on December 7 in Delhi, ANI reported. This comes after Pawar met Trinamool Congress chief and West Bengal chief minister Mamata Banerjee in Mumbai on Wednesday.PM Modi chairs a meeting on cyclone situationPrime Minister Narendra Modi is chairing a meeting on the cyclone-related situation in the country.Omicron: Tamil Nadu issues new SOPs; unvaccinated people to be restrictedThe Tamil Nadu government implemented new standard operating procedures (SOPs) in the wake of the spread of the new variant of coronavirus, named Omicron. The new SOPs came into effect from December 1. Read MoreNaidu appeals for talks to end Rajya Sabha stalemate, fails to understand suspension rowRajya Sabha Chairman M Venkaiah Naidu on Thursday urged the Opposition and government to talk out the ongoing crisis over the suspension of the 12 MPs and let the upper House of Parliament to do its mandated job. Read More‘Elders have WFH and children have to go to school?’ CJI pulls up Delhi govtThe Supreme Court on Thursday rapped the Delhi government for reopening schools and subjecting children to pollution-related health hazards, while the government has allowed work from home for its employees. Read MoreOppn leaders wear black bands in protest over MPs suspension, continue stirMembers of Opposition parties continued their protest near a statue of Mahatma Gandhi on Parliament premises on Thursday demanding revocation of suspension of MPs from the remainder of the session. Read More‘UPA will be a body without…’: Kapil Sibal replies to Mamata's ‘what is UPA’Senior Congress leader Kapil Sibal on Thursday said without the Congress, the UPA will be a body without a soul, a day after West Bengal chief minister and Trinamool Congress chief Mamata Banerjee said there was no United Progressive Alliance left in the country. It is time to show opposition unity, Kapil Sibal tweeted on Thursday morning, without referring to Mamata's comment. Read MoreIndia's daily Covid-19 tally rises to 9,765India's Covid-19 tally rises by 9,765, while the number of active rises to 99,763. Health minister to chair with meeting on airport screening and surveillanceUnion Health minister Dr Mansukh Mandaviya will chair a meeting at 10 am today with States on airport screening and surveillance with Airport Public Health Officials (APHOs) and Port Health Officials (PHOs), according to ANI.Delhi, adjoining areas to see light rainfall in next 2 hoursThe Indian meteorological Department  (IMD) predicts light intensity rain over parts of Delhi; Farukhnagar, Haryana; Debai, Narora, Sahaswan, Atrauli, Aligarh in UP; Bharatpur and Mahandipur Balaji in Rajasthan during next 2 hours.'If that happens to kill somebody...': UK expert's warning over Omicron variantAmid the global concern over the Omicron variant, UK’s top epidemiologist has warned people against assuming that the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) evolve into a milder infection. Neil Ferguson, the head of the disease outbreak analysis and modelling group at Imperial College London, told British parliamentarians that the threat posed by the Omicron variant will not be clear until the end of December, The Guardian reported.'Didn't pull the trigger': Alec Baldwin on fatal shooting on setAmerican actor Alec Baldwin said that he 'didn't pull the trigger' on the firearm in the fatal shooting that killed cinematographer Halyna Hutchins and injured director Joel Souza. During an interview with abc News, Baldwin said he has 'no idea' how a live bullet got onto the set of his film 'Rust'.Cyclone Jawad: IMD issues red alert for heavy rainfall in some Odisha districtsOdisha government on Wednesday asked collectors to prepare for evacuation from 13 districts amid the forecast of a cyclonic storm, Jawad, reaching the coast on December 4. Read MoreSamples of 6 int'l fliers who tested Covid positive sent for genome sequencingSix international passengers tested positive for the Coronavirus disease (Covid-19) out of 3,476 passengers from the so-called at risk countries tested on arrival at airports across the country on December 1, the first day of implementation of the Centre’s revised guidelines for Covid testing, according to a government statement. The samples of all six have been sent for whole genome sequencing to confirm the strain.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/breaking-news-live-updates-december-2-2021-101638405405136.html
02-12-2021||India||Cyclone Jawad: IMD issues red alert for heavy rainfall in some Odisha districts||Odisha government on Wednesday asked collectors to prepare for evacuation from 13 districts amid the forecast of a cyclonic storm, Jawad, reaching the coast on December 4. The Indian Meteorological Department (IMD) said that the low-pressure area forming in the south Andaman Sea will intensify into a depression and move towards the Odisha coast as a cyclonic storm on December 4.As part of extensive pre-emptive measures, the government has chalked out a disaster management strategy for rescue and relief operations. National Disaster Response Force, Odisha Disaster Rapid Action Force and fire department personnel have been requisitioned for the operations.State relief commissioner P K Jena said in an advisory that the sea condition is likely to get very tough as the wind speed reaches 45 to 55 kmph, gusting to 65 kmph on Friday. After the depression takes the shape of a cyclonic storm, the system will move northwestwards and reach north Andhra Pradesh-Odisha coast around Saturday morning. Cyclone Jawad: IMD issues alert for north Andhra Pradesh, Odisha coastsOn the morning of Cyclone Jawad landfall, the wind is likely to reach 80kmph gusting to 90 kmph.“Though it is clear that the cyclonic storm will approach the Odisha coast, it is too immature to say where it will make landfall and other details. However, under its impact, several coastal districts of Odisha will experience light to moderate rainfall from December 3. South Odisha districts may also experience heavy rainfall on December 3,” IMD director-general Mrutunjay Mohapatra said.“Only after the depression is formed will we be in a position to predict the path and location of the cyclone crossing the coast and its intensity,” Mohapatra added.But the intensity of rainfall in Odisha will pick up from Saturday as the coastal districts and interior districts are expected to experience heavy to very heavy rainfall. The IMD has issued a red alert for Gajapati, Ganjam, Puri and Jagatsinghpur districts. An orange alert has been issued in Kendrapara, Cuttack, Khurda, Nayagarh, Kandhamal, Rayagada and Koraput districts for Saturday.(With agency inputs)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/cyclone-jawad-imd-issues-red-alert-for-heavy-rainfall-in-some-odisha-districts-101638404765105.html
02-12-2021||India||ED can interrogate Unitech promoters in custody: SC||The Supreme Court on Wednesday modified its August order sending former Unitech promoters, Sanjay and Ajay Chandra, to Mumbai jails at the request of the Enforcement Directorate (ED), which wants to interrogate and confront them “with a lot of evidence”.The top court shifted the Chandra brothers out of Delhi’s Tihar jail to Taloja and Arthur Road jails in Mumbai on August 26 after a police probe ordered by the Supreme Court backed ED allegations that jail authorities were helping the two engage in illegal activities, including running an underground office in south Delhi.Also Read | SC orders probe into collusion of Tihar jail officials with Ex Unitech ownersED approached the Supreme Court to amend its August 26 order after jail authorities in Mumbai refused to honour production warrants issued by a Delhi court on the agency’s request and told officials to seek a clarification from the top court. Mumbai jail officials cited provisions of the Supreme Court order that required the two to record their presence in trial court proceedings via video conferencing.Appearing for ED, additional solicitor general (ASG) Madhavi Divan said, “We require their interrogation as they need to be confronted with a lot of evidence. For this, we require a clarification that video conferencing will not come in the way of our request to seek custodial interrogation.”A bench of justices Dhananjaya Y Chandrachud and MR Shah found the request reasonable. “We clarify that our order (of August 26) will not come in the way of the ED moving requisite application before the Special ED court for custodial interrogation,” the bench said. It further stated that once the period of custodial interrogation, if granted, is done, the accused shall be brought back to the respective jails in Mumbai.The also bench asked the senior law officer about the progress made by the Centre to take remedial steps at Tihar.ASG Divan said the ministry of home affairs (MHA) has drafted an affidavit ahead of the December 9 deadline set by the court but she suggested some changes and sought two more weeks beyond the deadline to file it. “We do not want an affidavit but action on the ground,” the bench shot back. “The report by Delhi CP was comprehensive in suggesting installation of body scanners, CCTVs among other steps. Do you want to improve the system? Then tell us what steps you have taken pursuant to the report.”A total of 32 jail officials at Tihar were named in the FIR by the Delhi police in connection with the probe into allegations that Chandra was working in connivance with prison officials was disposing of the proceeds of crime and influencing witnesses.Also Read | Raids at residences, offices of former Unitech promoters, 32 Tihar jail officersDivan said that the situation cannot be remedied just by installing CCTVs as there is a serious issue of grafts involved. The bench eventually agreed to give the Centre two more weeks to file the affidavit but asked the law officer to inform about the steps taken within a week.The Chandra brothers were arrested in April 2017 on charges of duping homebuyers in 74 projects. ED got into the picture after a Supreme Court-mandated forensic audit of Unitech conducted in 2018 revealed that part of the ₹14,000 crore invested by nearly 30,000 homebuyers in 74 Unitech housing projects was laundered to offshore shell companies.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/ed-can-interrogate-unitech-promoters-in-custody-sc-101638392368973.html
02-12-2021||India||When did wealth become a measure of the worth of a man?||“When did money become the be-all and end-all of Indian society?” the man asked. Which I thought was a bit rich (ahem, forgive the pun), given that we were tucking into a lavish Sunday brunch (priced at about ₹5,000 a pop) at the Four Seasons Bengaluru. So there we were, India’s one-percenters talking about money and what it meant to us.We were college friends who had seen each other rise and fall. We had come far from our humble beginnings. Our problem was one that is felt keenly in Bengaluru where millionaires are made overnight: how could we enjoy the fruits of our hard work while ensuring that our kids stayed foolish, hungry and drive, to paraphrase Rashmi Bansal’s terrific book.Many middle-aged Indians who are successful professionals today have a similar trajectory. We have our “unreserved compartment” stories. You know what I mean? Or maybe you don’t. It is the moment when you travel by Indian trains. There you are, after an ungainly undignified scramble, sitting on the upper-berth of the unreserved compartment, surrounded by sweaty bodies. In a scene worthy of a Kannada movie, you swear that you will never put yourself through this again. Mostly you don’t. Every professional I meet at Bengaluru’s great companies, be it Titan or Flipkart, have their “origin tales” of how they struggled and succeeded. Equally, all of us, me included, now lead lives, where we do everything we can so that our kids don’t struggle. Our kids don’t take public transport, they don’t bike to buy vegetables, they have never travelled in the unreserved compartment on their trips home for vacation. Yet, we want them to stay grounded, hungry and driven, just as we were. The question is: can you get your kids to be hungry without letting them-- quite literally-- go hungry? How to keep them grounded if you live atop a glitzy high-rise?Different parents take different strategies. My friend, Leo, for instance, flies business class when he is alone but travels economy whenever the family goes on vacation-- so that his kids can learn the values of frugality. He also wants his kids to be ambitious, have a passion. “We mostly define success and ambition as linked with wealth which I think is totally silly. Ambition to me is about going after what you want and working hard.”As a parent, what are the two or three cardinal values that you would want to pass on to your children? For me, it would be frugality and grit, but it could be different things for you. North Indians tend to use words like courage and determination. Frugality, I find, is valued mostly by South Indians (not including folks from Andhra or Telangana). I think it is because we have a certain uneasiness about wealth. We don’t ‘own’ it emotionally, we have an inherent, and you could argue, well placed suspicion about whether it will change our character. Serial entrepreneur Ramji Srinivasan calls it the “South Indian hang up about financials and wealth.” He says, “My dad always says ‘material goods will never love you back.’ I try to remember that advice to this day.” Discussing frugality at the Four Seasons is a contradiction, you might say. But here lies the nuance. As adults, all of us want to enjoy our champagne brunch. Heck, we’ve earned it. But we don’t want our kids to grow up thinking that this is their reality. We want them to earn it as well. So what is a parent to do? One option that we all came up with was to take our kids to Woodlands for outings rather than, say Zen at The Leela. Let them struggle, let them earn and then let them go out wherever they want was the rationale. Did we do it? Not really. In this day of helicopter parenting, kids tag along everywhere the parents go. All is not lost though.Recently, Namu Kini, owner of the art gallery Kynkyny had put together a weekend market at Hatworks Boulevard, an oasis in the centre of Bengaluru. Titled Uru Collective-- it was a collection of homegrown brands-- all leaning towards plant-based and sustainable solutions. What I saw at the market gave me hope. Most of the founders Bengalureans in their 20s and 30s. They came from privileged backgrounds. Yet, there they were, ambitious if not hungry. They were following their passion even if it didn’t conform to their parents’ traditional notions of success, which in India generally means medicine, engineering, law or accounting. These folks were entrepreneurs who followed their passion and principles. There was Angelo’s Vegan cheeses, Asan menstrual cups, Bare Neccessities zero waste products, Huda Bar cereals and more. Look up Uru Collective’s Facebook page for the full list of local brands. Success has many models, and each model has an expiry date. Today’s youth prioritise work-life balance, personal growth and happiness, over brute-force climbing up the corporate ladder at the cost of pretty much everything. If you are a parent who has a child doing something counterintuitive, supporting them involves internalizing the hardest truth of all: that our children are not our reflections. They are gloriously different individuals who march to a different beat. Ultimately isn’t that what successful parenting is all about?(Shoba Narayan is Bangalore-based award-winning author. She is also a freelance contributor who writes about art, food, fashion and travel for a number of publications)
02-12-2021||India||Months on, Bengaluru roads’ audit stuck in a limbo||An audit of the money spent on road-related works in Bengaluru is not going according to the intent with which it was announced by Karnataka chief minister Basavaraj Bommai in September, a senior government official said on Wednesday. The official said that the audit was more an understanding of where the money was spent or appropriation of the said amount.“It (audit) is being done so that road repair works and the audit happen parallelly,” said the senior government official aware of the developments, requesting not to be named. The official said that even the base of the road needs to be checked. During the monsoon session of the state legislature in September, Bommai said that an amount of ₹20,060 crore was spent on road-related works in Bengaluru alone. The audit was announced to check the expenditure that was purportedly used for road works, which are among the poorest quality in the country. According to the BBMP’s estimates, one kilometre of a two-lane road under Smart City costs anywhere between ₹7.5 to ₹11 crores (including underground ducts), and the same for a tar road is around ₹80 lakhs to ₹1.3 crores. The Bommai government has said that there are around 1,344 kms of arterial and sub-arterial roads in Bengaluru, of which only 295 kms are said to be in good condition, and another 246 kms have now been ridden of potholes. The BBMP has said that it will commence work on repairing roads “as soon as the rains stop”.The government has surpassed many of its deadlines to fill these potholes despite the additional money put into an exercise. Bommai, who holds the Bengaluru portfolio, said that only 1,344 kms of roads, out of the over 11,800 kms, were motorable in the city, admitting to one of the biggest infrastructural challenges. The chief minister, his cabinet colleagues and several others pointed to the presence of multiple civic agencies that do not coordinate while cutting roads and then leaving without relaying them. Bommai has said that the government will try to ensure better coordination. “There is something called the defect liability period, which the BBMP has not been insistent on,” the officials said. The period states that the contractor will be liable for any damages on the roads for a certain amount of time. But contractors said that they cannot be held responsible if civic agencies cut open roads soon after it is asphalted. The poor civic infrastructure had been the cause of at least deaths in Bengaluru last year, according to the National Crime Records Bureau (NCRB), which is several times more than all other major cities combined in the country. Delhi had two deaths attributed to civic negligence while Mumbai had one, according to data.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/months-on-bengaluru-roads-audit-stuck-in-a-limbo-101638386903707.html
02-12-2021||India||More clusters emerge as 15 students test Covid positive in Karnataka||As many as 15 more students have tested Covid positive in two nursing colleges in Tumkuru, said the district health officer on Wednesday. He said that all the infected individuals have been isolated at a quarantine centre and their samples have been sent for additional investigation. This comes a day after 13 students of a government-run residential hostel in Hassan district and seven medical college students in Chamarajanagar had tested positive. According to officials, most of the students who recently tested positive for the viral infection are from Kerala. Owing to fears surrounding the new Omicron variant, the state government has ramped up its testing and tracing measures. With the increase in the number of clusters in educational institutes and the scare over the new variant, several private schools have suspended offline classes, said the office-bearers of the schools’ association. M Srinivasan, president of Management of Independent CBSE Schools’ Association (MICSA), Karnataka, said that over half of their member schools that had resumed offline classes have reverted to offline classes. “There is a fear among parents, so these schools have gone back to online teaching and they are also holding their exams online,” he said. Srinivasan said that Covid-19 clusters have been reported at educational institutions which have residential facilities. He added that other schools may take a decision soon. Talking about reopening schools, he said schools would wait and watch before taking further steps. Primary and secondary education minister BC Nagesh however said there is no need to panic. “As of now the situation is under control. The government is constantly monitoring the situation. No government schools have reported any Covid-19 cluster since offline classes resumed. If and when the Technical Advisory Committee suggests going back to online classes, we will take a decision. As of now, classes will continue as normal,” he said. The minister added that there are over 48,000 government primary and high schools across the state and since the lack of technology have created a gap in education, it is important to continue offline classes. “Many students who didn’t have mobile phones were lagging behind. We are running special classes to make up for this. So at this stage, we will take a decision on closing schools based on the committee’s recommendation,” he said. Chief minister Basavaraj Bommai also dismissed speculations that schools and colleges may be ordered to close in the state. “We have issued instructions on guidelines to be followed at schools and colleges. But educational institutions will not be closed,” said Bommai. Meanwhile, the Karnataka government has issued an advisory on the emergence of the new Covid-19 clusters and said that all social and cultural events, conferences, seminars, academic events, etc. in educational institutions may be postponed for two months.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/more-clusters-emerge-as-15-students-test-covid-positive-in-karnataka-101638386900278.html
02-12-2021||India||‘Plan to keep pot boiling’, SIT tells Supreme Court on Zakia Jafri’s plea in 2002 Gujarat riots||There is a sinister plot behind the complaint to probe the “larger conspiracy” behind the 2002 Gujarat riots, and the original complaint by Zakia Ahsan Jafri was directed by social activist Teesta Setalvad, who levelled allegations just to keep the pot boiling, a special investigation team (SIT) told the Supreme Court on Wednesday.The SIT, which took up Zakia’s complaint in 2011 on an order by the top court, filed a closure report in February 2012 giving clean chit to 63 people, and ruling out any conspiracy by the state or its officials. Prime Minister Narendra Modi, who served as Gujarat’s chief minister at the time, was among the people exonerated.Also Read | Gujarat riots: Wrong to attribute motive to SIT, says SCDefending its findings, the SIT, represented by senior advocate Mukul Rohatgi said, “What was started by the complainant (Zakia) is now being directed by Teesta Setalvad who is being joined by RB Sreekumar (former Gujarat police chief) in making all kinds of allegations against all people with the singular motive to keep the pot boiling.”Also Read | Gujarat riots: No case made out of Zakia Jafri’s complaint, SIT tells SCRohatgi said that the top court should put an end to the matter in the ongoing proceedings, where both Zakia and Setalvad have challenged an October 2017 order of the Gujarat high court refusing to reopen the closure report of the SIT. “This court should give a closure to this case. Further agony should not go on at the instance of the second petitioner (Setalvad) who wants to keep the pot boiling,” he said.Rohatgi further stated that when the matter was assigned by the top court for investigation to the SIT in September 2011, “this court saw the tears of a victim of Gulbarga Society.” He was referring to Zakia, whose husband, former Congress MP Ahsan Jafri, was killed during at Gulbarga Society during the riots.“See what’s the kind of sinister plot coming out, her complaint had named 63 persons and in her appeal before Gujarat high court, further 50 more names were added. There is expansion of this case at every stage,” Rohatgi said, pointing to the 1,200-page protest petition, saying, “See the sinister purpose. No normal person can file such a huge protest petition.”Also Read | Question on Gujarat riots in Class 12 test inappropriate; will take action: CBSEThe bench of justices AM Khanwilkar, Dinesh Maheshwari and CT Ravikumar told Rohatgi to highlight this aspect in the form of a chart. “Give us bullet points on how the improvement in the complaint was made, first before the trial court, then in the high court and finally in the Supreme Court,” the bench said.The SIT gave further proof of the alleged plot by referring to three witnesses who came to depose their statements to the SIT when they were probing Zakia’s complaint. “They brought prepared statements to be taken on record. As the procedure requires the investigating officer to record statement on the spot, upon questioning, they gave different names of accused. Later, they confessed that the prepared statements were given to them by Teesta Setalvad,” Rohatgi said.Denying claims by the petitioners – Zakia and Setalvad – about the Godhra train burning, parading of dead bodies, late reaction by administration to call the army, and statements by police officials, the SIT said, “These are ramblings made on imaginary issues. The petitioner is drawing castles in the air. These are hard-to-swallow allegations without any basis that creates doubts for nothing.”Rohatgi admitted that there was “obviously a failure of administration as they were overrun on the day riots began”, and added: “Ultimately, you can say police was complacent and charge them for dereliction of duty but there is no criminal conspiracy.”He will continue with his submissions on Thursday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/plan-to-keep-pot-boiling-sit-tells-supreme-court-on-zakia-jafri-s-plea-in-2002-gujarat-riots-101638386656824.html
02-12-2021||India||BJP’s rise in Telangana may be behind KCR’s attack||The Telangana Rashtra Samithi (TRS), for long considered what is termed a friendly party in political circles by the Bharatiya Janata Party has finally jumped on to the Opposition bandwagon, a move that analysts attribute to the latter’s growing clout in the southern state of Telangana. For seven years now, the TRS, headed by Telangana chief minister K Chandrasekhar Rao, has largely voted along with the ruling party. The change was evident in the presence of TRS’ parliamentary party leader K Kesava Rao at the meeting of 16 Opposition parties at the office of Congress floor leader Mallikarjun Kharge on Tuesday condemning the suspension of 12 Rajya Sabha members. “The TRS is part of the Opposition team to protest the highhanded attitude of the NDA government. We have been protesting for the last two days and we shall continue,” Kesava Rao said. Back home, KCR, as the TRS chief is popularly called, has also been adopting an aggressive posture against the BJP for the last few days, attacking the local leadership of the party as well as the Narendra Modi government in particular. While the Centre’s refusal to purchase parboiled rice from the state is the trigger for the chief minister’s outburst against the BJP, many party insiders and analysts say the real reason is the growing electoral threat posed by the BJP in the state. The party did well in recent local body and assembly by-polls.Of late, KCR has lashed out at the Modi government on several other issues, such as the controversial farm laws, the Lakhimpur Kheri incident, power sector reforms, rising fuel prices in the country, Chinese aggression on Arunachal Pradesh borders and India’s performance in the hunger index . According to a senior TRS leader who asked not to be identified, the decision to give up the hitherto “neutral” stand of the party was taken at the TRS parliamentary party meeting held in Hyderabad on Sunday, where KCR gave a clear direction to his party MPs, nine in Lok Sabha and six in Rajya Sabha , to step up their offensive against the BJP-led NDA government in coordination with the other Opposition parties. Though KCR made an attempt to float a federal front of various regional parties before the 2019 general elections, there were no takers for his proposal, his party has largely supported the legislative agenda of the government in its first term, and thus far in its second. Analysts said that the change in position also means that KCR and the TRS now see the BJP and not the Congress as their main rival. In the December 2018 assembly elections in Telangana, the BJP could win only one seat in the 119-member assembly and its candidates lost their deposits in as many as 106 constituencies. It also failed to make an impact in the subsequent local body elections. But the party bounced back by winning four Lok Sabha seats in the 2019 general elections, including in Nizamabad where BJP candidate defeated KCR’s daughter Kalvakuntla Kavitha, the TRS became alert. The subsequent win by the BJP in the by-election to Dubbak assembly seat and its showing in the elections to the Greater Hyderabad Municipal Corporation proved that the Lok Sabha performance wasn’t an exception. The recent victory of the BJP in the Huzurabad by-election was a big shock to KCR, the analysts said.  “He is perhaps, made nervous by the meteoric rise of the BJP in Telangana and hence, has decided to join the Congress under Rahul Gandhi’s leadership, even if it is for limited time and purpose,” political analyst Sriram Karri said. Senior TRS leader and former MP B Vinod said the TRS has decided to join hands with the other Opposition parties to fight against the anti-people policies of the NDA government on an issue-to-issue basis. “We shall also take the support of the other Opposition parties on issues concerning Telangana, like the contentious paddy procurement.” The official spokesperson of the Telangana unit of the BJP K Krishna Saagar Rao said KCR’s strategy indicates that he might be preparing ground for an alliance. “We won’t be surprised if the TRS enters into an electoral alliance with the Congress in the coming elections.” Karri said KCR may well be creating a narrative of the TRS as opposed to BJP, while cosying up with the Congress. “His biggest strength is that his two rivals can never come together.” 
02-12-2021||India||Landslides hit hills in Tirumala, 20 pilgrimshave narrow escape||Around 20 pilgrims travelling in a state-run bus to the hill shrine of Lord Venkateshwara in Tirumala escaped uninjured after the bus driver noticed boulders rolling down the ghat road due to rain-triggered landslides in the early hours of Wednesday, Tirumala Tirupati Devasthanams (TTD) chairman Y V Subba Reddy said. Reddy said the incident occurred at around 5.45 am when a series of landslides on the Tirumala hills resulted in huge boulders falling on the second ghat (for the upward journey of pilgrims from Tirupati to Tirumala) at four locations. He said the landslides were the result of recent torrential rains in the temple town and the Tirumala hills, after a gap of nearly 30 years. The retainer walls were broken and the ghat road caved in under the impact of the huge boulders falling on it. “A major accident was averted as the RTC driver stopped the bus on time. There were no injuries to anybody due to the blessings of Lord Venkateswara,” Reddy told reporters. He said the boulders caused huge damage to the road at five to six places and its protection railings at a height of 1,000 feet and 800 feet respectively on the 20 km long extremely curled serpentine road, forcing the Tirumala Tirupati Devasthanam authorities to close the road for vehicular traffic. This is the second time in less than two weeks that the ghat road was closed for traffic due to landslides caused by heavy rains that lashed the temple town, along with several parts of the south coastal Andhra and Rayalaseema districts, which are still reeling under the impact of the depression in the Bay of Bengal. The TTD chairman, along with the senior officials rushed to the spot to inspect the damaged road. “The TTD authorities and the police swung into action and sealed the road completely. There are no landslides on the first ghat road (bringing pilgrims from Tirumala down the hill). We are allowing the upward traffic also on the same route,” Reddy added. “While the vigilance and police officials have removed the rocks and other debris, the engineering department authorities have been pressed into service to study the situation. A team of experts from IIT Madras have inspected the road and another expert team from IIT Delhi will also inspect the site on Thursday morning to assess the extent of damage,” Reddy said, adding that it might take two to three days to restore the normalcy on the damaged ghat road. In the third week of November, too, Tirumala and Tirupati witnessed unprecedented heavy rains, and both the ghat roads were closed for a day due to landslides from the hills. The temple premises and its surroundings were submerged in water for nearly two days. The traffic was restored gradually, as the rains subsided. Reddy appealed to all the devotees who booked their darshan tickets to defer their travel plans to avoid inconvenience. He said all of them would be given options to use the tickets within six months. 
02-12-2021||India||I-T raids Saravana Selvarathinam in Tamil Nadu||A senior official of the Income Tax (I-T) department in Chennai said on suspicion of tax evasion, the department on Wednesday raided various premises of Saravana Selvarathinam which has six stores across Tamil Nadu. More than a 100 of the I-T officials conducted searches at more than 20 premises in the districts of Chennai, Tirunelveli, Madurai and Coimbatore from Wednesday morning. The search operations included eight places in Chennai. “The searches have not concluded and it will continue on Thursday,” said the official requesting anonymity. The retail chain of stores primarily caters to the lower and middle income group. According to their website, their showrooms sell textiles, jewellery, vessels, water, sweets and a host of other products, at affordable prices. It is a major shopping hub in Chennai with four out of the six stores present in the city such as in T Nagar and Purasawalkam. Customers couldn’t enter the stores on Wednesday due to the on-going raids when business had to stop. The department has not released a statement following the raids on Wednesday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/it-raids-saravana-selvarathinam-in-tamil-nadu-101638386356852.html
02-12-2021||India||Kerala rape case: High court cuts down former Catholic priest’s prison term to 10 yrs||The Kerala High Court on Wednesday reduced the sentence of former Catholic priest Robin Vadakumchery, 54, who was found guilty of raping a minor, from 20 to 10 years. The trail court in Thalassery in north Kerala had sentenced him to 20 years rigorous imprisonment and a fine of ₹2 lakh in 2019. Found guilty of rape and other provisions of the Protection of Children from Sexual Offences Act he was sentenced to 60 years but the trial court had fixed his jail term to 20 years. Hearing a plea against the trail court’s verdict the single bench of Justice Narayana Pisharadi altered charges from Section 376 (2) to Section 376 (1) of the Indian Penal Code (misuse of position to influence a victim) which reduced the sentence to 10 years. However charges under the Pocso will remain, the court observed. Vadakumchery, a senior priest, was convicted for impregnating a 17-year-old girl in Mananthavady (Wayanad) diocese in 2018. The case surfaced in early 2017 after the rape survivor, a higher secondary student, gave birth to a baby in the church-run hospital. She was a student of church-run school, one of the many educational institutions managed by Vadakumchery. There were many attempts to hush up the case but it came out. Initially, the victim’s father owned up the crime of raping his daughter and was arrested. However, police found major discrepancies in his statements and during sustained interrogation he broke down and named Vadakumchery. He said he was forced to own up the crime by church authorities. Vadakkumchery, who was once tipped to become Mananthawady Bishop, was arrested near Kochi airport while trying to flee to Canada. The senior priest’s arrest had invited enough embarrassment to the powerful Catholic church in the state. A year after his conviction, he was defrocked by Pope Francis in 2019. In July the Supreme Court had turned down his plea to marry the victim, who is a major now. Both, victim and her tormentor, moved the plea together but the court refused to entertain it.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/kerala-rape-case-high-court-cuts-down-former-catholic-priest-s-prison-term-to-10-yrs-101638386298606.html
02-12-2021||India||AIADMK changes bylaws to strengthen dual leadership||Chennai: In a bid to close the doors on expelled leader Sasikala, who claims herself to be the general secretary of the All India Anna Dravida Munnetra Kazhagam (AIADMK), the party on Wednesday formalised its dual leadership by making a vital change to the bylaws in the party constitution. Now, the coordinator (O Panneerselvam) and joint coordinator (Edappadi Palaniswami) will be internally elected by a ‘single voting system’ directly by the primary members, who have been associated with the party for five continuous years.Hitherto, according to bylaws, the AIADMK’s members of the general council (roughly 3,000 of them) had the power to elect or remove the party leaders. This change has now solidified AIADMK’s dual leadership arrangement which has been in place since J Jayalalithaa’s death in December 2016 and to keep Sasikala and her supporters out. This was part of the 11 resolutions passed by the AIADMK on Wednesday during the meeting of its executive committee, a key decision-making body, in the party headquarters in Chennai.A senior AIADMK leader on the condition of anonymity explained that the change was done due to internal squabbling.“We don’t know who will go against the party in which forum,” he said. For the new process, a party cadre requires to have held a primary membership card of the AIADMK for a minimum of five continuous years to be eligible to vote. “Now, only one box will be kept and the primary member can cast one vote which will go to both posts of coordinator and joint coordinator. During Amma’s (Jayalalithaa) time, the post for general secretary used to be announced and no one would nominate themselves and we would pass a resolution that we have elected Amma unanimously.”Since the party was founded in 1972 by MG Ramachandran as ADMK (later renamed AIADMK) after he broke away from the DMK, the highest post in the party is that of general secretary which was held by him and later by Jayalalithaa. Following Jayalalithaa’s death in office, her close aide Sasikala took over as interim general secretary. But that lasted just for a month as the Supreme Court convicted her in the disproportionate assets case in February 2017 and was sentenced to four years in jail.While she was serving her sentence in a Bengaluru jail, the factions of Palaniswami and Panneerselvam merged on a few conditions which included expelling Sasikala in 2017. During the same year, the AIADMK repealed a bylaw that scrapped the party’s all-powerful general secretary post, and resolved that Jayalalithaa would be their eternal general secretary. It transferred the powers of the general secretary by introducing new posts-- coordinator and joint coordinator which went to Panneerselvam and Palaniswami respectively who were then ruling the state as deputy chief minister and chief minister.The new changes on Wednesday further strengthens the top dual leadership party structure amidst a faction rallying for a single leadership which has been the hallmark of the AIADMK where Jayalalithaa ruled the party and the state. The AIADMK’s resolutions come in the backdrop of several setbacks that the party is facing--voices growing in favour of Sasikala’s re-entry, the Madras high court rejecting government’s acquisition of Jayalalithaa’s residence for a memorial in her name and the re-opening of the investigations in the murder of Jaya’s former aide at her estate in Kodanad.Political experts say that AIADMK has restored the bylaws to the MGR period when all primary members had the powers to vote for the top party leader. “This will be a barricade for Sasikala if she wants to take over. How will she convene and consolidate the entire membership?” pointed out political analyst Maalan Narayanan. “Modifying the bylaws also gives the AIADMK leadership legal validity if it is challenged. And it is good for the Opposition to be led by a leader who enjoys the confidence of the cadre.” Sasikala’s petition against convening a meeting in 2017 to make changes in the bylaws and to expel her is pending at a city court in Chennai. “This move may also be to prevent Sasikala from poaching AIADMK members after the case is over.”Minority wing leader sacked On Tuesday night, the AIADMK removed the party’s minority wing secretary and senior leader A Anwhar Raajhaa for violating party principles. Raajhaa has been speaking in favour of re-inducting Sasikala, against the current dual leadership and he has been vocal that their alliance with the BJP has cost them the votes of the minorities. Sasikala recently found support in Panneerselvam who said that the party will discuss her re-entry which was dismissed by Palaniswami later. However, both leaders signed the party order to remove Raajhaa. “He is removed from the primary membership of the party for speaking against the decisions of the high command and bringing disrepute to the AIADMK,” the joint statement from the dual leadership read on Tuesday. The AIADMK has been sacking cadres who are in touch with Sasikala and have supported her. However, Raajhaa’s removal is the first major expulsion which is expected to cause a stir. A former minister in the Jayalalithaa cabinet and ex-MP from Ramanathapuram, Raajhaa in his interviews recently said that the AIADMK would have fared better in the elections if they had united with Sasikala. Since Jayalalithaa’s death, the AIADMK-led NDA alliance lost the 2019 parliamentary elections, 2021 assembly elections and the rural body polls in October. Former AIADMK minister and spokesperson D Jayakumar justified the expulsion. “We are a party that follows military discipline,” he said. “While he (Raajhaa) is in the party, how can we accept him criticising the party, and sharing what happens in indoor meetings to outsiders. If we allow this, the party will go out of control. It is the right decision taken at the right time.”
02-12-2021||India||Maharashtra govt defers RT-PCR test for domestic fliers after advisory from Centre||A day after it issued orders for stricter air travel curbs amid fears of the new variant of SARS-CoV-2, Omicron, the Maharashtra government on Wednesday deferred the mandatory negative RT-PCR test for domestic travellers.The move came after the Union health ministry asked the state to “align” its orders with the Centre’s guidelines. Maharashtra health minister Rajesh Tope said the state government, however, is not going to scale down its curbs for international passengers, which includes seven-day institutional quarantine and compulsory RT-PCR tests.Also Read | Centre red-flags Maharashtra’s 4 new Covid rules for flyers, wants them scrapped“We have deferred the clause which mandated negative RT-PCR tests for domestic passengers. The necessary order will be issued in the immediate future. I don’t think there is any logic in keeping this clause... I think we have to fall in line with the Government of India’s guidelines,” Tope told HT.On Wednesday, Union health secretary Rajesh Bhushan wrote a letter to Maharashtra’s additional chief secretary (health), Dr Pradeep Vyas, saying the state’s order was in “divergence” with the guidelines issued by the Union health ministry.State’s chief secretary Debashish Chakrabarty, who signed the order on Tuesday, said the letter was an “advisory” and it did not stop the state from including additional conditions.Also Read | State clarifies rules for flyers after Centre redflags Maharashtra’s 4 new Covid guidelines“We have received a letter from the Union health secretary which is an advisory that says we should modify our orders in accordance with directions of the government of India. It is an advisory but that does not prevent the state government to include certain conditions which may be necessary for the containment of the new variant Omicron in the state. It was an advisory and would be considered only to that extent. For now, we are continuing with the guidelines that were issued yesterday (Tuesday),” Chakrabarty told HT.Meanwhile, senior officials said the state government was monitoring the Omicron situation daily, and if the situation improves, it will scale down the orders.The state government on Tuesday issued an order mandating international passengers from the so called at risk countries to undergo seven-day institutional quarantine upon arrival. They will have to take an RT-PCR test on days two, four, and seven. If tested negative, they will have to stay in home quarantine for another seven days. If found positive, the passengers will be shifted to a hospital. The order also makes it mandatory for all other international passengers (apart from those from at risk countries) to mandatory take RT-PCR at the airport upon arrival, and undergo 14 days of home quarantine, if they are found to be negative. If found positive, they will be shifted to a hospital.Also Read | 6 int'l passengers from 'at-risk' countries tested Covid positive in MaharashtraMeanwhile, the Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) in a circular on Wednesday said the Maharashtra government’s order making institutional quarantine of one week compulsory for all international passengers from at risk countries landing in Mumbai, will be effective from 11.59 pm of December 2 (Thursday night). However, all international fliers will still have to undertake mandatory and paid RT-PCR tests at the airport upon arrival, effectively immediately, as per a separate order issued by the Government of India on November 30.BMC has decided to give a window of two days for all international fliers before implementing the government of Maharashtra guidelines — mandating seven days of institutional quarantine for international passengers from risk countries. In its circular on Wednesday, the BMC said since many fliers will have already finalised their plans of travel, maybe on the move, or might even be airborne and unaware of these guidelines, a window of two days shall be given to all passengers arriving in Mumbai from at risk countries. This will avoid major inconveniences to passengers and also give them time to recast their travel plans.When asked if these rules apply to domestic passengers coming to Mumbai if they are fully vaccinated, Suresh Kakani, additional municipal commissioner in-charge of BMC’s public health department, said, “These issues are being considered. We will put up a revision in guidelines to the state tomorrow (Thursday) for approval.”In BMC circular also directed the Mumbai airport operators to communicate to all domestic airlines not to allow any passengers landing in Mumbai, to board flights without negative RT-PCR reports taken within 72 hours of travel. Only in exceptional cases, testing may be allowed at the airport on arrival.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/maharashtra-govt-defers-rt-pcr-test-for-domestic-fliers-after-advisory-from-centre-101638386178113.html
02-12-2021||India||Samples of 6 international fliers who tested Covid positive sent for genome sequencing||Six international passengers tested positive for the Coronavirus disease (Covid-19) out of 3,476 passengers from the so-called at risk countries tested on arrival at airports across the country on December 1, the first day of implementation of the Centre’s revised guidelines for Covid testing, according to a government statement. The samples of all six have been sent for whole genome sequencing to confirm the strain.Also Read | Centre issues FAQs for international passengers amid Omicron variant scareThe passengers are from 11 flights that landed between 12 am and 4 pm on December 1. All of them undertook RT-PCR tests.The new, tighter testing protocol has been put in place following concerns over a new strain of the SARS-CoV-2 virus that causes Covid-19, called Omicron.“The samples of the COVID19 positive passengers were sent to INSACOG labs for Whole Genomic Sequencing. Government of India continues to keep track of the evolving situation, and supporting States/UTs in the fight against the pandemic through whole of government approach,” the statement added.Also Read | Eye on Omicron: India defers full resumption of international flightsIt did not provide details of the airports in which the six arrived, nor the countries from which they arrived.The Union ministry of health and family welfare on Sunday revised its travel guidelines for international passengers arriving in India, making RT-PCR tests mandatory for all the passengers coming from at risk countries, irrespective of their Covid-19 vaccination status. The list of at risk countries has the UK, all European countries, South Africa,Brazil, Botswana, China, Mauritius, New Zealand, Zimbabwe, Singapore, Hong Kong, and Israel..Even passengers testing negative will have to home quarantine for a week and take another test on the eighth day.Also Read | Amid Omicron scare, 3 Covid positive foreigners in Vrindavan leave India without informing authorities: ReportThe earlier travel guidelines, issued on November 11, this year, exempted fully vaccinated passengers from the test.According to WHO, the Omicron or B.1.1.529 variant has a large number of mutations, some of which are concerning. Preliminary evidence suggests an increased risk of reinfection with this variant, as compared to other VOCs.Also Read | WHO confirms Omicron Covid-19 variant in 23 countries. Here’s the full listThe airport health authorities will also do random RT-PCR testing on arrival of 5% travellers coming from countries excluding the countries “at risk”, the guidelines said.There are 11 countries on India’s “at risk” list currently, and travellers coming from these countries will have to follow additional measures.
02-12-2021||India||UP elections: Grand temple to be built in Mathura, says deputy CM Maurya||Uttar Pradesh deputy chief minister Keshav Prasad Maurya stirred up a fresh row in the poll-bound state on Wednesday after he said that preparations were underway for the construction of a grand temple in Mathura on the lines of Ayodhya and Varanasi.“Ayodhya aur Kashi bhavya mandir nirman jaari hai, Mathura ki tayyari hai (grand temples are being constructed in Ayodhya and Kashi and Mathura will be next),” Maurya tweeted.Mathura -- the western UP town believed to be the birthplace of Hindu god Krishna -- has a prominent mosque - the Shahi Idgah - located next to the Krishna janmabhoomi (the site believed to be the god’s birthplace). The mosque has been at the centre of a legal battle for years with Hindu groups claiming that the Idgah was built on land where Lord Krishna was born.The tweet comes days after a right-wing group, Akhil Bharat Hindu Mahasabha, announced plans to install a Krishna idol at the Shahi Idgah after elaborate rituals. The group, however, cancelled the plan on Monday.Also Read | Denied permission, ABHM calls off Dec 6 ‘jalabhishek’ prog at Eidgah in MathuraTalking about the announcement coming close on the heels of the anniversary of the Babri Masjid demolition, on December 6, Maurya said: “During the time of the Ayodhya agitation, we would raise the slogan that Ayodhya is ours, now is the turn of Kashi and Mathura. Now, a Kashi Vishwanath corridor has come up in Varanasi and naturally it would be the turn of Mathura next.”“With the blessings of the people we are confident that the ancient glory of our grand heritage would be restored,” he added.Reacting to the tweet, Samajwadi Party chief Akhilesh Yadav told news agency ANI, “BJP has the agenda of robbing the poor and filling the pockets of the rich, they have always worked to benefit the rich class. No rath yatra or new mantra is going to help BJP in the upcoming polls.”Also Read | Mathura: Sec 144 imposed after right-wing outfits’ threatCongress spokesperson Zishan Haider, too, hit out at the BJP. “The game plan is clear. A day before union home minister Amit Shah’s visit to west UP, a deliberate attempt has been made to polarise the society on religious lines. BJP is back to its favourite play - Hindu-Muslim politics,” he said.UP BJP leader Navin Srivastava, however, defended Maurya, saying: “There is nothing wrong in what Keshav ji said. We all should be proud of our heritage. Shame on these political parties who first tried to stall the construction of Ram temple and now are back to playing their favourite appeasement politics.”
02-12-2021||India||Jaish IED expert among two terrorists killed in J&K||Two terrorists, including an IED expert of the banned Jaish-e-Mohammed terror group, were killed in an encounter in Kashmir’s Pulwama district on Wednesday, police said.According to officials familiar with the matter, the encounter broke out during a search operation in Qasbayar village of Pulwama on Wednesday. Police have identified the terrorists as Jaish IED expert Yasir Parray and Pakistan national Ali Bhai.Confirming the killings, director-general of police Dilbag Singh termed the encounter a big success. “Both of them were involved in the terror activities. Yasir Parray was involved in an IED attack on the army in which two soldiers were killed and many others injured. He (Parray) was considered as an IED expert.”Ali Bhai, too, was involved in a lot of terror activities in the area. “Both of them were working jointly and they had more than one dozen FIRs registered against them.”Inspector-General of Police (Kashmir), Vijay Kumar, too, described both the terrorists as experts in handling IEDs.Army spokesman said that two AK 47s, two pistols and other warlike stores were recovered from the encounter site.Speaking about the growing threat of the The Resistance Force (TRF) -- an offshoot of Pakistan-based Lashkar-e-Taiba -- DGP Singh said: “All the groups active in Kashmir like Jaish and Lashkar and its affiliates are carrying out attacks but TRF is claiming responsibility as if locals are doing this, which isn’t true.” “Furqan alias Ali Bhai was a category “A+” Pakistani terrorist who was known to be active with JeM since June 26 2020. Yassir Ahmad Parrey, of Qasbayar, Pulwama, was a category “B” militant who had joined JeM on June 20 2019. He was known to be associated with various Pakistani terrorists and acted as a guide for bringing them into Kashmir. He was a known associate of Pakistani terrorist Abu Saifullah alias Lambu, who had planned the Pulwama convoy attack on CRPF. He had orchestrated attacks on the Security forces using an improvised explosive device at Arihal on 17 Jun 2019,” the army spokesman said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/jaish-ied-expert-among-two-terrorists-killed-in-jk-101638385639148.html
02-12-2021||India||EU special envoy on Afghanistan Tomas Niklasson visits New Delhi, holds talk with Shringla||New Delhi: India and the European Union (EU) had an opportunity to exchange notes and discuss the way forward in Afghanistan as EU special envoy Tomas Niklasson visited New Delhi on Wednesday.Niklasson travelled to India after holding talks in Doha over the weekend with a Taliban delegation led by acting foreign minister Amir Khan Muttaqi. The EU made it clear the two-day dialogue did not imply recognition of the interim government in Kabul but was part of an “operational engagement in the interest of the EU and the Afghan people”.This is Niklasson’s first visit to India since he became the special envoy and comes weeks after India hosted a meeting of top security officials of regional countries, including Iran and Russia, to discuss the situation in Afghanistan.Foreign secretary Harsh Shringla met Niklasson on Wednesday and exchanged views on the “current situation in Afghanistan” and agreed to “continue the ongoing coordination between India & EU on Afghanistan”, according to external affairs ministry spokesperson Arindam Bagchi.Security ties between India and the EU have been on the upswing in recent years in areas ranging from the Indo-Pacific to maritime security. People familiar with the matter said on condition of anonymity that the EU special envoy’s visit will be an opportunity for the two sides to exchange views on the latest developments in Afghanistan, including the urgent need to provide humanitarian aid to the Afghan people.The people further said that India’s position on Afghanistan remains unchanged and is based on UN Security Council resolution 2593, which calls for the formation of an inclusive government and steps to ensure that Afghan soil is not used to plan and execute terrorist actions against other countries.India has no immediate plans to reopen its embassy in Kabul, which was shuttered after all the diplomats and security personnel were evacuated in August, the people said.The immediate focus for India is ensuring unhindered and unimpeded access for humanitarian efforts in order to rush relief materials and medicines to the Afghan people as winter sets in, the people added.The Taliban delegation led by Muttaqi also held talks in Doha with the new US special representative on Afghanistan, Thomas West, who emphasised the “importance of the Taliban fulfilling its public commitment not to allow anyone to pose a threat to any country from the soil of Afghanistan” and the protection of the rights of all of Afghan citizens.The US side indicated there were no plans to lift American sanctions, as the treasury department had issued general licences for the continued flow of humanitarian aid to Afghanistan.The EU delegation, in its talks with the Taliban, highlighted the importance of democracy and called on the interim government to take “swift, meaningful and concrete steps towards an inclusive government” with all ethnic, political and religious affiliations in order to pave the way for national reconciliation.
02-12-2021||India||SC raps ONGC for haggling over arbitration fee, ‘insulting judges’||A public sector undertaking (PSU) cannot insult former judges of constitutional courts after agreeing to utilise their services as arbitrators, the Supreme Court observed on Wednesday, as it pulled up the Oil and Natural Gas Corporation (ONGC) for haggling over the arbitration fee.A bench, headed by Chief Justice of India NV Ramana, noted that two retired high court judges chose to opt out of the arbitration proceedings involving ONGC and a private entity, just to ward off any embarrassment to them due to the PSU’s conduct.“You (ONGC) are insulting judges because you think you have a lot of money. You think you can say anything, do anything,” the bench, which also included justices AS Bopanna and Hima Kohli, told ONGC’s counsel after taking up the case on its own.The bench also called upon attorney general KK Venugopal to apprise him of the reason why retired judges of the high court did not wish to be part of the arbitral tribunal set up by the apex court to resolve the dispute between ONGC and M/s Schlumberger Asia Services Ltd.The bench read out to A-G a letter written by justice SC Dhamadhikari, former judge of the Bombay high court, who sought to recuse himself in October as an arbitrator following the recusal by justice SJ Vazifadar, former chief justice of the Punjab and Haryana high court in June. Justice Dharmadhikari’s letter stated that ONGC was not agreeable to pay the fee of the arbitrators as decided by the arbitral tribunal, appointed by the top court in January this year. ONGC maintained it would pay the fee only as per the terms of its contract with Schlumberger.“Mr Attorney General, we want to bring to your notice the arrogance, behaviour and conduct of ONGC. We think they have a lot of money so they think they can do anything. Judges are recusing because they don’t want to be embarrassed. What is this attitude of ONGC? We want to issue a notice of contempt,” the bench told Venugopal.The court added: “They don’t have any respect for the judges. Every other day, public sector undertakings are filing frivolous cases but they don’t want to pay fees to the judges and are making such arrogant arguments.”Venugopal said the January order of the bench made it absolutely clear that fee shall be decided by the arbitrators and will be borne equally by all the parties and therefore, ONGC cannot insist on fee as per the contract.“It is a very embarrassing situation. No former judge will come forward to act as an arbitrator for your PSUs. You appoint your own arbitrators and don’t ask for judges as arbitrators if you cannot respect them,” said the bench.As the top law officer assured that he would look into the matter, the bench deferred the proceedings by a week, recording Venugopal’s appearance in the case.Schlumberger, a Hong Kong-based company with its project office in India, is a leading oilfield service provider.By consent of ONGC and Schlumberger, the Supreme Court on January 4 appointed former Calcutta HC chief justice JN Patel and justice Vazifadar as arbitrators. Justice Dharmadhikari was appointed in place of justice Vazifadar in July after the latter recused himself.
02-12-2021||India||Goa BJP’s first response to Congress claim of ‘sex scandal’ is a dare||PANAJI: The Bharatiya Janata Party on Wednesday brushed aside claims by Goa Congress leaders that an unnamed minister in Pramod Sawant’s team sexually exploited a woman, saying the opposition should name the minister if it really wants action to be taken,“The Congress should stop firing in the air and name the minister if they are serious about their allegations,” Goa BJP president Sadanand Shet Tanavade said, his party’s first formal response to a barrage of allegations from the state Congress over the last 24 hours.On Tuesday, Goa Congress president Girish Chodankar claimed that he has accessed a video clip where a minister was seen abusing his status to sexually exploit a young woman, and threaten her. He declined to name the minister concerned, insisting that chief minister Sawant is aware of the case.“When a minister misuses his status and his power in the government to sexually exploit a woman, this is a serious issue,” Chodankar said.“The minister is seen in compromising positions (in the video). And the manner in which he is speaking to a woman… he is not even fit to become an MLA. In the audio, you can hear how after she is sexually exploited, the woman asks for her right and the minister says ‘I am a minister and I can do anything’. He even tells her to go for an abortion, but the woman is clearly reluctant,” Chodankar said.Incidentally, BJP MLA from Vasco Carlos Almeida appeared to agree with the Congress leader and has asked his party to take action against the unnamed minister. Almeida, a two-term MLA, said the minister represents an area “around Vasco”, his constituency, and said that unless action was taken against the minister, it could hurt the party’s chances not just in Goa but in all the five states that go to the polls.BJP leaders said the allegation figured during a meeting of state party leaders where some sought action against the unnamed minister.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/goa-bjp-s-first-response-to-congress-claim-of-sex-scandal-is-a-dare-101638385097929.html
02-12-2021||India||Consider having a council for judicial infrastructure at national level, Supreme Court asks Centre||New Delhi: The Supreme Court on Wednesday urged the Union government to consider setting up a council for judicial infrastructure at the national level, stating that infrastructural requirements of high courts and subordinate courts in the country should not be left to the “mercy of the state governments” anymore.“Why don’t you consider having a council for judicial infrastructure at the national level? Let us tell you that we, as judges, are least interested in having control of this body. Judges obviously are in the know of things about judiciary but we are not interested in retaining control of such a body, if constituted. We would rather like this to go to the people who are experts in managing money,” a bench, headed by justice Dhananjaya Y Chandrachud, told additional solicitor general KM Nataraj.The bench, which also included justices Surya Kant and Vikram Nath, was categorical that chief justices of all the high courts were in unison in judicial conferences that while they were open to all the ideas of enhancing judicial infrastructure, they did not wish to keep pursuing the state governments for funds. “When we were recently interacting with chief justices on digitisation of court records, all of them had to say one thing -- don’t send us to the state government for support. If the Centre can do it, there will be a lot of help...Don’t leave high courts to the mercy of the state governments for funds,” the bench told Nataraj, who was appearing for the Centre in a case relating to judicial infrastructure and judges’ strength at state and district levels. The Centre and states share funds for judicial infrastructure for lower judiciary in the ratio of 60:40. Justice Chandrachud, who is also the chairman of the E-committee of the Supreme Court, pointed to the success of various projects initiated by the E-committee with direct involvement and support of the Union government, adding that this is a perfect example of how things can improve with centralisation of projects relating to judiciary.“Look at the enormous changes that we could bring with support of the central government in providing funds and channelising problems...There has to be an umbrella national organisation or we will have the same problem that bedevils us today,” the bench told the ASG. It highlighted that unlike the US where state and federal judiciary deal with different categories of statutes, judiciary is India is unified. “All judges deal with both central and state statutes. You need to look at judiciary from this perspective. So, you cannot hive off problems to states. It is already not working,” the bench said.The court also suggested that there should be a central pool of funds where states should also put in their share of 40% and the council, which may comprise the Union law minister, state law ministers, Union finance secretary and finance secretaries of all states, can manage the money. “Judges are very conservative about spending money because they are always circumspect. They are misers when it comes to spending money. This is all public money and the judges think hundred times before spending even a single penny. So, we would rather want experts to take control of this money. We may, however, tell you our priorities about courts and infrastructure,” the bench added. The court emphasised that “a radical change” is required to improve the conditions of courts and their infrastructure at state and district levels. “There has to be a more systemised monitoring mechanism at the Centre for disbursal of funds even for the high courts. Create a mechanism for judicial infrastructure. We are not saying you keep on funding and judges will be in-charge. Of course, litigants, lawyers and judges are consumers of this infrastructure. But you manage money,” it told Nataraj.The court gave Nataraj three weeks to meet with all the stakeholders to discuss the proposal of a national council for judicial infrastructure. “We are all working for a better future of the institution. This is a free-flowing dialogue. We are not issuing any direction. Let there be a discussion at an appropriate level. Let us know what their thinking is.” 
02-12-2021||India||Rahul meets Sidhu, Channi and Jakhar to chart Punjab strategy||Punjab chief minister Charanjit Singh Channi, state Congress chief Navjot Singh Sidhu and senior leader Sunil Jakhar met with former party president Rahul Gandhi at his Delhi residence on Wednesday.They are learnt to have discussed several issues, including those related to the party and its strategy for the Punjab assembly polls scheduled early next year.According to party insiders, Gandhi also discussed the formation of election-related committees for Punjab with the state leaders.Jakhar, who was the president of the Punjab unit of the Congress before Sidhu, could also be accommodated as the chairman of one of the poll-related committees of the party, the sources said.Jakhar first met with Gandhi and later, Channi and Sidhu visited him, they added.Sidhu has been questioning the Congress government in Punjab over issues of ensuring justice in the 2015 sacrilege and post-sacrilege police firing incidents in Faridkot.A few days back, he had even threatened to fast unto death if a special task force report on drug menace was not made public.The Punjab Congress chief also questioned his party’s government for not moving the apex court against the “blanket bail” given to former DGP Sumedh Singh Saini by the high court. Last month, Sidhu had even taken a dig at his predecessor Jakhar, saying he never raised the issue, inviting a sarcastic reply on Twitter from him.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/rahul-meets-sidhu-channi-and-jakhar-to-chart-punjab-strategy-101638384978450.html
02-12-2021||India||Parliament winter session: Lok Sabha passes Assisted Reproductive Technology Bill to regulate IVF clinics||The Lok Sabha on Wednesday passed the Assisted Reproductive Technology (Regulation) Bill, 2020, to regulate assisted reproductive technology (ART) services such as in-vitro fertilization (IVF) centres, sperm or egg banks etc that have mushroomed across the country.The bill was passed by a voice vote after Union health minister Mansukh Mandaviya said that it was brought following due consultations and the need to regulate ART services is to protect affected women and children from exploitation.“Many such ART clinics have been running in the country without regulation. A need was felt for regulation of such clinics as there are implications on the health of those who undertake the procedure,” the minister told the Lower House.“If there is no regulation, the unethical practices will increase,” he added.The Union government had been working on the bill to regulate the ART industry since 2008 when it was first drafted by the Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR). The bill was first introduced in Lok Sabha on September 14, 2020 but the House had referred it to a standing committee. Many suggestions came from the standing committee and the government considered them, the health minister had said earlier. The bill proposes the constitution of a national board that will set minimum standards of physical infrastructure, laboratory, diagnostic equipment and expert manpower to be employed by clinics and banks. It also proposes the establishment of a national registry and registration authority to maintain a database of all clinics and medical professionals serving in the field. It further seeks stringent punishment for those practicing sex selection, sale of human embryos or gametes, or found running agencies, rackets and organisations for such practices in violation of the law. The bill is the most recent, in a series of legislations approved by the Union Cabinet such as the Surrogacy Regulation (Amendment) Bill, 2019 and Medical Termination of Pregnancy (Amendment) Act, 2021, to protect and safeguard the reproductive rights of women. Some members in the House said since the surrogacy bill is pending in Rajya Sabha and the two (another one being on ART) draft legislations are inter-linked, both should be passed together.“The surrogacy bill is pending in the Upper House, that has not been passed. How can this House pass a law depending upon another law... My point is that this bill cannot be taken into consideration, this bill cannot be discussed,” RSP’s N K Premachandran said.Responding to this, Mandaviya said that the surrogacy bill was passed in Lok Sabha and now it is in Rajya Sabha, and immediately after that “we brought this ART bill” and both the bills will now be taken up in the Upper House together. Speaker Om Birla ruled that since the surrogacy bill is not pending in Lok Sabha, the Assisted Reproductive Technology (Regulation) Bill, 2021, can be taken up and passed by the Lower House.ART services in the country have seen a significant growth in the past few years, with clinics offering nearly all services -- gamete donation, intrauterine insemination (IUI), IVF etc., and gestational surrogacy. While there is no clear data, at least 3,000 clinics and banks are known to offer such services across the country.However, there are no standard protocols for such centres to follow and reporting remains inadequate in the country. “There was a need to regulate the sector because there is a lot about the sector that is not known, for example, how many clinics are there right now. There are many clinics that claim to be doing IVF, when in reality, they are just doing intrauterine insemination (IUI), and end up fooling couples. The bill will regulate such malpractices,” a senior government official, familiar with the matter, said on condition of anonymity.Any violation of norms listed under the bill may attract a penalty between ₹5 lakhs and ₹10 lakhs for first-time offenders. For subsequent contraventions, these offences will be punishable with imprisonment for a term between eight and 12 years, and a fine between ₹10 and ₹20 lakh, the bill’s provisions stated.Any clinic or bank advertising or offering sex-selective ART will be punishable with imprisonment between five and ten years, or fine between ₹10 lakh and ₹25 lakh, or both, it added. Experts, however, pointed out certain unreasonable penal provisions in the bill that may discourage people from practising in the country.“Many of my friends are already thinking of migrating to other countries as no country has the legal provision for non-bailable arrest for making a clerical error that may happen while filling up a patient form. People will have to employ extra full-time staff, and the cost will be borne by patients. The cost of IVF will definitely shoot up. This is a very wrong way of promoting adoption, if that’s the target,” Dr Shivani Sachdev Gour, senior gynaecologist-obstetrician and IVF expert, said.“Still, we would need to look at the final version of the bill as there seem to be a lot of amendments suggested to the bill,” she added.
02-12-2021||India||Question on Gujarat riots in Class 12 test inappropriate; will take action: CBSE||The Central Board of Secondary Education (CBSE) on Wednesday said that a question on the 2002 Gujarat communal riots asked in the class 12 sociology Term 1 board paper was inappropriate and in violation of its guidelines for external subject experts setting question papers.Acknowledging the error, CBSE said that strict action will be taken against paper setters. School administrators said that the question was based on the syllabus and students did not raise any concerns.Also Read | ‘Plan to keep pot boiling’, SIT tells Supreme Court on Zakia Jafri’s plea in 2002 Gujarat riots“A question has been asked in today’s class 12 sociology Term 1 exam which is inappropriate and in violation of the CBSE guidelines for external subject experts for setting question papers. CBSE acknowledges the error made and will take strict action against the responsible persons,” the board tweeted on Wednesday evening.The question, which came under scanner, was part of the multiple-choice Sociology paper “The unprecedented scale and spread of anti-Muslim violence in Gujarat in 2002 took place under which government?, ” the question read. The options offered in the answer were: “Congress”, “BJP”, “Democratic” and “Republican”.Also Read | Gujarat riots: Wrong to attribute motive to SIT, says SCIt further added that CBSE guidelines for paper setters outlined that questions should be academic-oriented and should be class and religion neutral. “Questions should not touch upon domains that could harm sentiments of people based on social and political choices.”A number of school administrators said students did not raise concerns about the question and were able to answer it, since it was based on the syllabus. Chapter 6 of the textbook, Indian Society, has details of the riots, they added.Sudha Acharya, the chairperson of the National Progressive Schools’ Conference, which has over 120 private Delhi schools as its members, said though students were able to answer the question, it could have been avoided.Also Read | Gujarat riots: No case made out of Zakia Jafri’s complaint, SIT tells SCTania Joshi, principal of The Indian School, added that the question was based on the syllabus. “We have dealt with this topic in political science.”The 2002 Gujarat riots , which resulted in around 1000 deaths according to official estimates was sparked by the burning of a train carrying Hindu pilgrims on February 27 and lasted three days. According to official estimates, the violence left 1044 people dead.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/question-on-gujarat-riots-in-class-12-test-inappropriate-will-take-actioncbse-101638384556470.html
02-12-2021||India||NHAI suffered ₹2,731.32 crore loss due to farmers’ protest, Parliament told||National Highway Authority of India (NHAI) suffered toll losses worth ₹2,731.32 crore in Punjab, Haryana and Rajasthan due to the farmers’ protest since last October, the government informed Parliament on Wednesday. It added that the outstanding debt of NHAI increased by 176% to ₹338,250 crore in three years. While Haryana incurred a loss of ₹1,319.61 crore, Punjab suffered a loss of ₹1,269.42 crore due to the farmers’ agitation. Rajasthan registered a loss of ₹142.29 crore, Union minister for road transport and highways (MoRTH) Nitin Gadkari told Rajya Sabha. “The farmers’ protest started affecting toll collection from October 2020. Initially, toll plazas in the state of Punjab were made non-operational by agitating farmers in October 2020. It eventually spread to the neighbouring states of Haryana and parts of Rajasthan. Overall, 60 to 65 NH toll plazas were affected due to farmer agitation resulting in loss of toll collection of ₹2,731 crore,” Gadkari said in a written reply to a query by Bharatiya Janata Party MP from Uttar Pradesh Anil Agrawal. The government also said that business at the toll plazas continue to remain affected as farmers have not yet vacated the sites, “MoRTH and NHAI have made continuous efforts to operationalise the affected toll plazas through active communication with the state administration, help of toll collecting agencies etc. State governments of Punjab and Haryana had assured to render full cooperation for resumption of toll collection at the affected toll plaza in their respective states. However, toll operation could not be started,” the minister said. “Further, NHAI invited bids for 14 non-operational fee plazas in the state of Rajasthan based on assurance from local administration and two plazas were awarded on September 3, 2021 and September 7, 2021. However, these plazas also could not be operated due to farmers’ protest,” he added. 
02-12-2021||India||CBI arrests 5 CPI (M) activists for murder of Kerala Youth Congress leaders||The Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI) on Wednesday arrested five Communist Party of India (Marxist) workers in connection with the murder of two Youth Congress leaders in north Kerala’s Kasaragod two years ago. People close to the central agency said they will be produced in a court in Ernakulam on Thursday. One of the arrested is CPI (M) branch secretary K Raju and the agency did not rule out more arrests in the case. It is a big setback to the state government which tried its best to stall a central agency probe in the case. In December 2020, the Supreme Court had rejected its plea questioning the CBI probe. Youth Congress workers Kripesh and Sharath Lal were waylaid and hacked to death brutally in Periya (north Kerala’s Kasaragod) in February 2019. Initially the CPI (M) disowned the twin murders and condemned them. Later parents of both young men moved the High Court for a central agency probe saying the investigation was not on the right track and was opposed by the government. Though the crime branch arrested 10 people a week after the murder, all local CPI (M) workers, and parents alleged that it was a well-planned murder and many senior leaders were involved in it. A week before the murder the CPI (M) had organised a protest meeting in the area and senior leader had made a speech threatening both that their days were numbered, their parents said. The Congress and parents of both the victims lauded the latest arrests. “The state tried its best to contain the CBI and even took enough time to hand over the case diary. We are sure the poor parents will get justice,” said party leader Satheesan Pacheni. “We are sure all involved will be made accountable,” said father of Sharath Lal K Sathyanarayanan. CPI (M) leaders are yet to react. The CBI is already probing two political murders in north Kerala in which many senior leaders including former Kannur district secretary P Jayarajan were arrested as accused. So the party opposed the CBI probe fearing that senior party functionaries will be booked again.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/cbi-arrests-5-cpi-m-activists-for-murder-of-kerala-youth-congress-leaders-101638384436428.html
02-12-2021||India||Parliament winter session: Opposition plans to continue protest in Rajya Sabha for a week||The Congress-led opposition on Wednesday decided to continue its agitation against the suspension of 12 MPs in Rajya Sabha for a week but opted out of major protests in Lok Sabha to allow normal functioning of the House, people familiar with the developments said.The opposition parties, which met at 10 am to chalk out the strategy for the floor of the house, decided to continue with the protests over the suspension both inside and outside Parliament.Also Read | Parliament winter session: MPs’ suspension continues to rock House proceedingsThe suspended 12 MPs, who staged a sit-in protest near Mahatma Gandhi statue in Parliament premises on Wednesday, decided to continue doing so tillthe end of the session, the people cited above said.“Opposition leaders from all parties will come and protest in front of the statue before taking the protest inside the House,” CPI(M)’s Elamaram Kareem, who is among the suspended members, said.Senior Congress leader Jairam Ramesh expressed concerns over the “muzzling” of leader of opposition (LoP) in Upper House, Mallikarjun Kharge, who was allegedly not allowed to speak on Wednesday.“The manner in which the LoP, who has a distinguished 50-year legislative career, is being treated by the Chair is unprecedented in Rajya Sabha,” he said.Also Read | Piyush Goyal defends suspension of 12 MPs, demands apologyThe Trinamool Congress (TMC), too, have decided to join the protests against the suspension of the MPS. The party, however, will stay away from the Congress-led opposition strategy meetings in the wake of growing distance between the Congress and TMC, especially after the latter poached several lawmakers and senior leaders from the former in recent months.“We are there on a larger issue but maintaining our own identity,” TMC leader Saugata Ray said.Opposition members, however, have decided not to create major impediments in the functioning of the Lok Sabha. The Telangana Rashtra Samithi, however, is likely to continue its protests over the Centre’s alleged low procurement of foodgrain in Telangana in the House, the people cited above said.Opposition leaders have also decided to seek time for debate on a statutory guarantee for minimum support prices (MSP). They wanted to raise it during a debate on the bill to repeal the farm laws earlier this week, but the bill was passed without debate, triggering protests in both Houses of Parliament.
02-12-2021||India||Behaviour of Opposition MPs not justified, says Speaker Om Birla||Criticising the Opposition for protests, sloganeering and waving placards in the Lok Sabha, Speaker Om Birla said that the behaviour of the MPs is not justified and that Parliament cannot function if the MPs keep disturbing the proceedings.Birla made the remarks during the Question Hour when some members of the Opposition went down to the Well and started raising slogans. Birla requested them to maintain decorum.He said, “You are a member of the House. Senior members are speaking and you are waving placards in front of them. What decorum do you want to create in the House?”Before adjourning the House till 12 noon, Birla said, “I have given your leader enough time, ample opportunity to speak on your issue yesterday (Tuesday).”“You have come to raise slogans, you have brought placards here. This is the wrong way,” Birla said.He also asked the House to take “collective” steps to stop disruptions. “I urge the Houses to make a collective effort to stop such wrong practices and traditions,” Birla said.“The House represents 130 crore people. You want to express the public’s sentiment. Question Hour is an important time. The government is ready to answer everything. You don’t want to hear the answer, this is not the right way,” Birla said.Less than 30 minutes into the Question Hour where only four questions were taken up, the Speaker adjourned the proceedings till noon even as TRS MPs continued their protests. Though the House resumed after 12 noon, the TRS MPs trooped to the Speaker’s podium and disrupted the proceedings, forcing him to adjourn the House again till 2 pm.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/behaviour-of-opposition-mps-not-justified-says-speaker-om-birla-101638383956416.html
02-12-2021||India||India’s active cases drop below 100,000 for the first time in 18 months||After a gap of nearly 18 months, the number of active cases of Covid-19 across India has dropped to fewer than 100,000 – a remarkable and encouraging statistic for a country the size of India. With 99,023 active infections across India as of Wednesday morning, the case burden on the country is at the lowest since June 2, 2020 – a time when the first wave of the pandemic was just beginning.Active cases – those Covid-19 patients still carrying the virus, and thus under treatment at the time – is a crucial metric representing any region’s battle against the coronavirus disease because it directly reflects the pressure on the health care system. A look at how India’s prolonged fight to contain Covid-19 is reflected in this number.Steady recovery from the brutal second waveCurrently, there are 99,023 active Covid-19 cases in India. As stated above, the last time there were fewer active cases in the country was 547 days ago, when there were 94,656 such cases. But, at that time, the country’s first wave was only kicking off. This time, however, cases are declining and most importantly, are doing so at a steady pace since the peak of India’s brutal second wave of infections. Even in the trough between the first and second waves, the number of active cases in India dropped only to 137,552.The volume of active cases during India’s second wave of infections (and the first, for that matter) also provides context to how much things have improved. At its worst, there were more than 3.75 million active cases in the country on May 9. Most importantly, active infections have been declining nearly steadily since the May 9 peak – a period that now spans nearly seven months.During the first wave, active cases soared to a peak of 1.02 million, according to HT’s Covid-19 dashboard. This means that the current active caseload, and by extension the burden on the country’s hospitals and nursing homes, is under a tenth of what the country saw during the peak for the first wave and only 3% of what it witnessed during the second wave.Where India’s active caseload is concentratedKerala, a state that has been one of the key regions that have seen a prolonged spell of the outbreak despite declining trends across the country since the second wave, continues to dominate national statistics. With 44,314 active infections, the southern state alone is responsible for 45% of the country’s active caseload. With 11,226 active cases as of Wednesday morning, Maharashtra – India’s worst-hit state –is currently home to 11% of such cases.Tamil Nadu, with 8,244 active cases, constitutes 8% of the national caseload, West Bengal (7,731 active cases) has 8% of the national tally, and Karnataka (6445) has 7% -- wrapping up the list of the country’s top five biggest states by active cases. Interestingly, Mizoram finds itself on the sixth spot in the country with 3,751 active cases (4% of the national caseload).Another interesting way of looking at this statistic is to factor in the population of the state. This lets us grasp how prevalent infected people are within a state. In such an analysis, the size of the current outbreak in the country’s North-East comes into context. With 3,147 active infections per million residents, Mizoram has the biggest current outbreak in the country respective of its size. It is followed by Kerala (1,262 cases per million), Ladakh (942 cases per million), Lakshadweep (353 cases per million) and Manipur (209 cases per million). For context, there are currently 74 active cases for every million residents in India. Bihar and Uttar Pradesh have the fewest such infections – 0.3 and 0.4 active cases per million, respectively.How it was achieved: Seven months of case declineThe drop in active cases has been a result of a consistent decline in daily infections in the country over the past seven months. In the week ended November 30, India reported 8,896 new cases of Covid-19 every day on average. This is the lowest that the seven-day average (a number that denotes a region’s Covid curve) has dropped to since the week ended June 6, 2020. What is even more positive, is that this trend appears to be holding – in the past week, the case curve has dropped 10%.Rate of vaccination rising againIn other good news, the rate of vaccine administration across the country appears to be rising again. In the past week, 8.1 million daily shots have been administered across the country on average. This is a considerable improvement for a drive that has been patchy for long periods – particularly going through a lull in the past month. At its best, the seven-day average of daily doses has touched 9.8 million (for the week ended September 23). For the week ended November 4, this number dropped to an average of 2.9 million— a lull that has been largely attributed to the festive season by government officials.India has administered a total of 1.24 billion doses of Covid-19 vaccine to 789 million people as of Wednesday morning. Of these, 452 million people have received both doses of the vaccine, while another 337 million people have been partially vaccinated. When these numbers are seen alongside the country’s projected adult population of 940 million (according to the Census of India’s National Commission on Population), this means that 83.9% of people above the age of 18 years have received vaccine shots – 48.1% are fully vaccinated and another 35.8% partially vaccinated. 
02-12-2021||India||HTLS 2021: ‘What’s better than one gold? Two golds’||They belong to the most unique and exclusive club in India — a club that has, out of a population of over 1.3 billion people, just two members. They are the only two people who have managed to win an individual Olympic gold medal in India’s 100-year history at the Olympics — they are, of course, Abhinav Bindra and Neeraj Chopra. No wonder then, that when the two of them came together for a conversation on Day 2 of the Hindustan Times Leadership Summit, they discovered that they had things in common — other than that Olympic gold.“One thing that Neeraj and I have in common is that I hated sports when I was young,” Bindra said. “In school I was very talented in finding excuses to escape from anything that involved running around. I was miserable in boarding school and my father would write me a letter almost every day, and one common thing was that I need to pick up a sport.”Chopra’s origin story is similar — when one of his uncles dreamed that someone from his family of farmers should do something different, he homed in on Chopra. Egged by his him and his parents, Chopra was “forced” to go to a nearby sports stadium to pick up a sport.“For the first few months they forced me,” Chopra said in a session moderated by Hindustan Times managing editor Kunal Pradhan. “I just wanted to come back from school and sleep. But slowly I started enjoying it. Then it got to a point that if I missed training even one day, that day felt incomplete. I got hooked to it.”Like Chopra, it was the “process” that drew Bindra into shooting as his journey began under a mango tree in his coach’s garden.“I loved training,” Bindra said. “Competition was very painful for me, but training was my love. It was like meditation, the time that I got to spend with my own self, learning about myself, and it was a fascinating process.”BREAKING BARRIERSChopra told Bindra about what the former shooter’s gold medal at the 2008 Beijing Olympics meant for him — “what he broke was a mental barrier,” Chopra said. “Physically, we all work hard, but his gold, it showed us that it was possible, how to do it, how to conduct ourselves, and that changed a mindset.“At the time he won the gold, I did not know anything about sports really,” Chopra said, “so I did not know about this. But a couple of years after I came into sports, that’s when I started learning about his gold, our sporting history.”“It was a great weight off my own shoulders,” Bindra said. “For such a long time, being the only one was very lonely. I was happier when Neeraj won, more than when I won. While it was interesting to be known as the only Olympic gold medallist from India, it was also kind of embarrassing…”Chopra recalled that warm Tokyo night — August 7—when under the blazing lights of a spectator-less stadium, he created history with his soaring throw. Did he think, when he threw 87.58m on the second of his six possible attempts, that he had wrapped it up?“No,” Chopra said, “I only knew that I when all throwers had finished all their throws that the gold was mine. To think about the gold before that, it’s tricky, because then if someone throws a really big one, and I have to come up with something even bigger, I won’t be in the right frame of mind.”COEXISTING WITH PRESSUREChopra’s gold came in his debut Olympics, at the age of 23, and Bindra said he believes there will be another first for the thrower: the first Indian to win two Olympic gold medals.“For what’s better than one Olympic gold medal?” Bindra asked. “Two gold medals!”When Chopra asked Bindra — a veteran of five Olympic Games — for some advice going forward, Bindra said that the first thing to do would be to “accept and coexist with pressure…just like we are coexisting with Covid-19”.“The big mistake athletes make is that they try and run from the pressure, they make strategies on how to resist it, but that only makes things tougher,” he said. “The other thing is that we have to take the risk to get out of our comfort zone and get better, even when things are going well for us. We need to have the courage to change. Tiger Woods had the courage to change his swing when he was at his peak. Unfortunately, in sports you can’t stay still. It’s about your next performance. You reached a peak in Tokyo, so how do you get to the next peak? You need to come down, and climb again.”Chopra said that for him, there was something more than Olympic gold in his sport that drove him—the distance that he can get on his javelin.“I can keep shifting the goal,” he said.“When I first threw 70, I was very happy. When I threw 80, I was overjoyed. Then I threw 88. There is another goal now. The Olympic record is 90.58—that could be my goal. I can definitely throw longer (than his current best, 88.07m). The last two years, there was an injury, there was Covid, the time went past. Now my coach and I, we have talked, and he has drawn up a detailed plan with a distance in mind and my job is to follow that plan.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/htls-2021-what-s-better-than-one-gold-two-golds-101638383715783.html
02-12-2021||India||Parliament winter session: MPs’ suspension continues to rock House proceedings||Fierce protests continued to rock the Rajya Sabha in the ongoing winter session of Parliament for the third consecutive day on Wednesday, even as the Lok Sabha returned to partial normalcy by allowing the passage of The Assisted Reproductive Technology (Regulation) Bill, 2020.Proceedings in the Rajya Sabha were disrupted amid unrelenting protests by opposition members over the issue of suspension of 12 MPs due to their “unruly” behaviour in the Monsoon Session. The suspended MPs, meanwhile, held sit-in protests near the Mahatma Gandhi statue in the premises of Parliament.Also Read | Parliament winter session: Opposition plans to continue protest in Rajya Sabha for a weekOpposition members demanded that the House take up the issue of suspension even as chairman Venkaiah Naidu reiterated that the MPs had “not expressed remorse” for the “sacrilege”.“It is sacrilege of the House, I have said (on the conduct of the 12 suspended MPs during the last session in August). There is no remorse by members who have really insulted the parliamentary system,” Naidu said.“…Coming to the well of the House, climbing on the table, throwing papers, snatching papers from the minister and also challenging the Chair... doing everything which is unparliamentary, undemocratic and they have no remorse. What can we do?” he added.Amid the protests, opposition members did not allow Union minister for Jal Shakti, Gajendra Singh Shekhawat, who was moving The Dam Safety Bill, 2019 for consideration in the House, to complete his speech.Also Read | Piyush Goyal defends suspension of 12 MPs, demands apologyCongress leaders wanted leader of opposition, Mallikarjun Kharge be allowed to speak on the suspension of the legislators.The protesting opposition members trooped into the well of the House and continued their sloganeering.The House was adjourned twice in the first half before getting adjourned for the day a little after 3 pm after Shekhawat introduced the Dam Safety Bill.“The government has not reached out to us. They have not initiated any dialogue,” Communist Party of India’s Binoy Visam, who is among the suspended MPs, said.Opposition members, who are united against the suspension of the MPs, asserted that the government will have to break the deadlock.“There has been no response to the letter that the LoP (Mallikarjun Kharge) wrote to the chairman on the suspension. There is no effort from the government’s side to break the deadlock,” Dravida Munnetra Kazhagam’s Tiruchi Siva said.In the Lok Sabha, proceedings were adjourned till noon on Wednesday amid continuous protests by members of the Telangana Rashtra Samithi (TRS) over farmer issues.The Question House was disrupted after TRS leaders shouted slogans and displayed placards over low procurement of the state’s farm produce by the Centre, in the Well of the House.Speaker Om Birla told the protesting members it was not the right thing to do and emphasised that the Question Hour was important.“When a senior member is speaking, you (people) are protesting... what kind of practice are you trying to bring into the House?”“Your behaviour in the House is not right, it is wrong and the House cannot run like this... I had given you time to raise the issue,” Birla added.Later in the day, as normalcy returned for a brief period, the Lower House passed the Assisted Reproductive Technology (Regulation) Bill, 2020.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/parliament-winter-session-mps-suspension-continues-to-rock-house-proceedings-101638383598122.html
02-12-2021||India||No checks on net shutdowns in India, govt must explore app blocking: House panel||The government should explore the possibility of banning particular internet services, such as messengers like WhatsApp and social media websites like Facebook, instead of putting in place blanket internet bans, a panel looking into shutdown of telecommunications and their impact said in its report to Parliament.The standing committee on communications and information technology, headed by Congress MP Shashi Tharoor, made close to a dozen specific recommendations, including for the government to lay down standard operating procedures and for assessments to be done on whether such shutdowns work at all.The recommendations were based on what the committee said was huge impact of such shutdowns, which curtailed access to critical services. “The committee notes that internet is of immense importance in the present digital era. It is the lifeline which is propelling businesses and services, permitting students to enrol for important examination, and enabling home delivery of essentials,” it said in its report.In particular, the committee said that the government must “lay down a clear cut principle of proportionality and procedure for lifting of shutdowns so that these are not extended indefinitely even when the situation comes under control affecting the life and liberty of people”.The panel said it found rules were lacking in clarity, the mechanisms did not include adequate safeguards, and there was limited consultation and oversight in the process. A standing committee’s report is not binding for the government to accept, but if it does not, it will need to outline reasons for not doing so in writing.The committee’s members visited Jammu and Kashmir as it looked into the issue, particularly after the internet shutdown there drew criticism and the intervention of the Supreme Court.“The committee notes that under the present mechanism... no parameters have been laid down to decide the merit or justice of the telecom/internet shutdowns. Internet shutdowns have been ordered purely on the basis of subjective assessment and reading of the ground situations by district-level officer and is largely based on executive decisions,” it said. “The committee, therefore, recommend that a proper mechanism is put in place at the earliest to decide on the merit or appropriateness of telecom/internet shutdowns.”According to a March 2021 assessment by advocacy group Access Now, India “shut down the internet more than any other nation — a total of at least 109 times” out of 105 countries from where data was collated. “It’s quite a strong indictment of the problem and the government’s approach to internet shutdowns is bringing India global infamy. The report enumerates issues of arbitrariness and the overreach, and it takes a position to call on the government to take action in specific ways to address problems. The report has been adopted by its members across party lines so if the government chooses to ignore this entirely, it will be concerning,” said Raman Jit Singh Chima, Asia policy director at Access Now, which coordinates the KeepItOn campaign against internet shutdowns across the world.The panel also noted that there was no centralised data on such orders and that many states did not yet have a review committee. It proposed that “both the department of telecommunications (DoT) and the ministry of home affairs should establish a mechanism at the earliest to maintain a centralised database of all internet shutdown orders in the country” with the reasons and duration for shutdown, the details about the decision of the competent authority, the decision of the review committees and whether any shutdown was ordered by resorting to Section 144 of CrPC. The panel particularly flagged the issue of several states using CrPC section 144 to order internet shutdowns when the proper channel would be to invoke the telecom suspension rules.The committee also said the review committees, which vet suspension orders, must be restructured. “There is a need to make the Review Committees more broadbased by including more non-official members such as retired judges, members of the public etc. so as to enable them to gauge the situation in the right broadest possible perspective and provide a critical and objective assessment of the ground situation,” the report said.The panel suggested that the government carry out assessments to determine whether there are any benefits to internet shutdowns from a law-and-order perspective and study how other democratic countries approach such rules.“The committee are of the view that one of the best mechanisms to deal with any law and order situation is the ability of the law enforcement agency to quickly respond to the crisis. Internet shutdown 57 cannot be a substitute for enforcing law and order,” it said.In its final recommendation, it asked DoT to explore whether it was technically feasible to block some services instead of the internet connectivity as a while. “The committee feel that it will be of great relief if the department can explore the option of banning of selective services, such as Facebook, WhatsApp, Telegram, etc instead of banning the internet as a whole. This will allow financial services, health, education and various other services to continue to operate for business as usual thereby minimising inconvenience and suffering to the general public and also help in controlling spreading of misinformation during unrest. Adoption of such less restrictive mechanisms will be a welcome initiative,” it said.
02-12-2021||India||Resumption of regular international flights put on hold||The Directorate General of Civil Aviation (DGCA) on Wednesday postponed the full resumption of commercial international passenger flight services that was planned to start from December 15, citing the threat from the Omicron variant of concern (VOC) of the coronavirus.Several countries have imposed travel bans on people who have visited countries with confirmed cases of the VOC, with some even shutting their borders to all foreign arrivals. India has instituted a mandatory test-on-arrival and seven-day home quarantine for people coming in from 12 regions, including all of Europe.“In view of the emerging situation, we are postponing the resumption of international flight operations. We will, however, continue flights under the air bubble agreement,” said DGCA director general Arun Kumar told HT.Prime Minister Narendra Modi first suggested the government reconsider the December 15 reopening when he held a meeting to review the threat from Omicron on Saturday. India has air bubble agreements with 28 countries including some that ar part of the 12, including the UK, Netherlands, France and Germany. Earlier on Wednesday, DGCA issued a circular and said it was monitoring the situation related to Omicron and would notify the date of full resumption of commercial international passenger services accordingly.“In view of the global scenario with the emergence of the new variant of concern, the situation is being watched closely in consultation with all stakeholders and an appropriate decision indicating the effective date of resumption of scheduled commercial international passenger services shall be notified in due course,” DGCA said in the circular.The World Health Organisation on Friday classified Omicron as a VOC after initial analysis showed it to carry an unusually large number of mutations, which could make it more resistant, more virulent (leading to severe disease), and perhaps more transmissible. Scientists in several parts of the world are carrying out tests and monitoring epidemic trends, especially in South Africa where most of the cases have been found, to establish if this is indeed the case. The VOC designation came on the day India said it will allow the full schedule of regular international flights to resume with all countries considered “not at risk” from December 15. The guidelines were on Monday revised and mandated all international travellers arriving in India to declare a 14 days’ travel history and upload their negative RT-PCR test reports. Airlines have been asked to ensure that passengers have negative test reports before boarding flights.Travellers coming from countries “at-risk” will have to mandatorily undergo RT-PCR testing on arrival. If tested negative, they will have to undergo home quarantine for seven days and get re-tested. If tested positive in the initial test or on repeat testing, the passengers will be sent to isolation facilities while their samples will be sent for genomic sequencing.A random 2% of the travellers coming from countries other than those classified as “at-risk” will undergo RT-PCR testing at the airports on arrival. If they are found to have Covid-19, their samples will be sent for genome testing for the Omicron variant and treatment shall be conducted as per protocols. If tested negative the traveller will be asked to monitor health for at least the next 14 days.Travel industry experts said they expected the step to be taken and will wait for more clarity.Prashant Pitti, co-founder, EaseMyTrip said, “We understand the importance of taking precautionary actions and minimizing the risk of the spread to ensure the safety of everyone. We are hopeful to see normalcy in international travel as soon as the situation is safer.”Indiver Rastogi, president and country head, global business travel, Thomas Cook India & SOTC said: “While as a precautionary measure, the announcement to hold back restart of scheduled international flights planned for December 15th, is not unexpected, we look forward to a review once more data/clarity on the new variant is received from health experts/authorities.”Rastogi added, “Despite the current capacity constraints and resultant high airfares, consumer demand for travel has not abated and both our air and hospitality partners are witnessing significant high occupancy/loads this winter season.”Scientists have said that a lot remains to be determined about the VOC. “We don’t know many things about this variant yet. How much more transmissible is it? How virulent is it? How well will vaccines protect against it?” said professor Akiko Iwasaki, professor of immunobiology at Yale University, during the session on Covid-19 at Hindustan Times Leadership Summit on Tuesday. “But what we do know is it has a lot of mutations. Therefore any pre-existing immunity from vaccines or a past infection may be less effective in preventing and disease,” she added.According to an analysis of case and hospitalisation numbers in Guateng province -- the region where most cases of Omicron have been found in South Africa -- by the Financial Times, while infections have risen far faster than past waves, the rate of hospitalisations was in step with past surges, suggesting it may only be as virulent as the other variants or even less severe. However, the findings are preliminary and could be skewed by infections being in younger people this time.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/resumption-of-regular-international-flights-put-on-hold-101638383536371.html
02-12-2021||India||Assam: Lynching accused killed while trying to flee, say police||The prime accused in the mob lynching case of a student leader in Jorhat district of Assam was killed in an accident on the early hours of Wednesday while trying to escape from police custody, the police said.Niraj Das, alias Kola Lora, was among 13 people arrested by police in connection with the death of Animesh Bhuyan, an office bearer of All Assam Students’ Union (AASU) on Monday in a busy area of Jorhat town.The death of the accused was followed by a cryptic message by the state’s special director general of police (law and order) GP Singh who tweeted: “For every action, there is an equal and opposite reaction -- Newton’s third law”.Singh’s tweet was shared by chief minister Himanta Biswa Sarma with the message: “Assam will be free of crime and criminal, come what may”. Jorhat police superintendent Ankur Jain tweeted: “Niraj Das @ Kola Lora, you can’t escape every time”.According to officials, Das, a known criminal with a past record of drug trafficking, was taken by a police team to locate a consignment of drugs (which he had claimed to have kept hidden) when he fought with the accompanying policemen and jumped out from the vehicle.“During interrogation, he informed us about a consignment of drugs. Our team took him to recover it, but when the vehicle reached an empty stretch of road on outskirts of Jorhat, he managed to jump out of the moving vehicle. The incident happened around 2.10am,” said Jorhat police superintendent Jain.“Das was hit by the police escort vehicle which was following the vehicle carrying him. Our driver tried to avoid hitting him, but couldn’t. The driver of the vehicle also lost control and hit a nearby wall injuring three policemen. An injured Das was rushed to Jorhat Medical College Hospital (JMCH) where he was declared brought dead,” he added.Das is believed to have led a mob of nearly 20 people who assaulted Animesh Bhuyan and two of his acquaintances- Mridusmanta Mahanta (a journalist) and Pranay Dutta (another AASU leader)- on Monday over suspicion of them hitting his father Mohan Das, who was riding a scooter, with their vehicle.Police investigation has revealed that Mohan Das lost his balance and fell down. But, when Bhuyan, Mahanta and Dutta sought to help him, Mohan shouted that his scooter was hit by the trio’s car. This led to a mob gathering at the spot that brutally assaulted the three.A video, which went viral, showed a group of men, including Niraj Das assaulting Bhuyan in the middle of the road. A police team reached the spot and took the student leader to JMCH, where he was declared dead. The two others, Mahanta and Dutta, who sustained injuries, were released after treatment.On Tuesday, police produced 12 of the 13 accused in a local court, where seven of them were sent to police custody for five days, and the others to judicial custody. Niraj Das wasn’t produced in court on Tuesday.Reacting to Niraj’s death, human rights activist Dibyajyoti Saikia said: “We have seen a rise in so-called encounter deaths in Assam in the past few months. Though the Jorhat incident wasn’t an encounter, the escape of an accused from police custody and his death after allegedly getting hit by a police vehicle is bound to raise questions.”“The entire incident was the outcome of a lynching in which the accused was involved. We need to think of enacting an anti-lynching legislation for Assam. Slow pace of trial and faulty investigation which results in acquittal of criminals have eroded public faith in the justice system and that’s why when accused persons get killed even when they are in police custody, it is applauded by a section. We need to see that rule of law prevails and justice is delivered by courts and not on the roads.”
02-12-2021||India||GST receipts ₹1.31 lakh crore in Nov, 2nd best so far||Goods and Services Tax (GST) collection in November this year surged to over ₹1.31 lakh crore, the second highest since the new tax regime was launched in July 2017, signalling increased compliance, and robust and sustained recovery of business activities after the second wave of the Covid-19 pandemic .This is the fifth consecutive month in which collections have crossed the ₹1 lakh crore benchmark.Also Read | Oct GST revenue hits new high at ₹1.3L-crThe indirect tax collections, a weathervane of economic health, also crossed ₹1.3 lakh crore for the second month in a row; the data comes a day after the country’s statistics office released data that showed that the economy grew at 8.4% in the second quarter ended September on the back of increased public spending, exports and agriculture.Together, the two, analysts said, show that the economic performance has surpassed the pre-pandemic level. According to data released by the Union finance ministry on Wednesday, the GST revenue in November (for transactions in October) at ₹1,31,526 crore is 25% higher than the GST revenues in the same month last year and 27% over the 2019 value. The highest ever GST collection of ₹1,41,384 crore was reported in April, ahead of the second wave.The value plunged below the benchmark in June ( ₹92,849 crore) because of a Covid-19 resurgence in April and May this year. The June collection figure indicates the volume of business transactions that took place in May. In May this year, most of the states were under complete or partial lockdown due to the second wave.MS Mani, partner at consulting firm Deloitte India, said GST revenues are in sync with the economic growth figures and reflect sustained economic recovery along with increased compliances. “There has been a significant increase in the GST surveillance activities in recent times based on the data available with the GSTN, these would have also contributed to the increased collections, over and above the economic growth, which is the key driver of GST collections.” GST Network (GSTN) is the IT backbone of the indirect tax regime.The recent trend of high GST revenues is the result of various policy and administrative measures that have been taken in the past to improve compliance, the finance ministry said in a statement. “Central tax enforcement agencies, along with the state counterparts have detected large tax evasion cases, mainly cases relating to fake invoices, with the help of various IT tools developed by GSTN that use the return, invoice and e-way bill data to find suspicious taxpayers.”In the past year, the GST regime took several initiatives to increase compliance such as enhancing system capacity, nudging non-filers, facilitating auto-population of returns, blocking of e-way bills and stopping input-tax credits to unscrupulous entities.Experts are, however, cautious due to the threat of new Covid variant -- Omicron, which may impact the global economy. Rajat Bose, partner at law firm Shardul Amarchand Mangaldas & Co said, “The collections of November are indicative of a robust economic growth. The collections should continue to see a rise in the months to come, if we don’t see another wave in the country.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/gst-receipts-1-31-lakh-crore-in-nov-2nd-best-so-far-101638383535740.html
02-12-2021||India||Parliament winter session: No data on farmers’ death during protest, says govt||The Union government on Wednesday told Parliament it has no data on farmers who died during the year-long protests against the three farm laws repealed on November 29, sparking criticism from the Opposition and farm unions.In a written reply to six related questions, including whether the Centre proposes to provide financial assistance to the kin of farmers who died during the agitation, agriculture minister Narendra Singh Tomar said the government did not have any record of farmers who died during the protests and therefore there was no question for compensation to their families.
