03-12-2021||India||TTD ropes in experts to find solutions to landslides on Tirumala Hills||The landslides triggered by heavy rainfall on the hills of Tirumala, a major pilgrim centre in Andhra Pradesh’s Chittoor district, in the early hours of Wednesday caused extensive damage to the ghat road so much so that it will take at least three to four weeks to repair it, officials said.The Tirumala Tirupati Devasthanams (TTD), which manages the temple of Lord Venkateshwara on Tirumala, has sought help from a team of engineering experts from the Indian Institute of Technology, Delhi and Chennai, to find a permanent solution to prevent landslides in future, as thousands of pilgrims travel on the ghat road every day.TTD trust board chairman Y V Subba Reddy, who held a meeting with the experts from the IITs and engineering officials on Friday, said the second ghat road (used for the uphill journey of pilgrims from Tirupati to the hill shrine of Tirumala), and its retaining walls, which suffered huge damages due to Wednesday’s landslides, would be restored at least by December end.Reddy asked the engineers to suggest measures to ensure that the remaining part of the hill which caved in, should not witness further landslides.“The parts of the hill, identified as a potential threat to pilgrims travelling on the ghat road should be sealed using chemical technology or removed carefully. The safety of the pilgrims is paramount and we are prepared to spend any amount of money to prevent further landslides,” the TTD chairman said.He asked the experts – K S Rao from IIT, Delhi and S Sripad from IIT Madras, along with retired chief engineer of TTD Ramachandra Reddy – to come up with a report on how to avert landslides in future.A senior official of the TTD said the team of experts, who went round the areas where landslides occurred to study the nature of rocks and the causes for the landslides, is expected to submit a report to the TTD by Tuesday.“According to preliminary assessment, it would take at least three months to come up with a lasting solution for the landslides on Tirumala,” the official said.An expert from Delhi IIT, K S Rao told reporters that unprecedented rains on the Tirumala hills for over a week, resulted in the landslides. “The rocks that rolled down the hills were of the weight of 30-40 tons each and hence caused extensive damage to the ghat road and the retainer walls at four to five places. There is a likelihood of rock falls in five to six other spots in future,” he said.Rao said there were rain-triggered landslides on the Tirumala ghat road in 2017, too, but this time, the magnitude was greater. “During 2017, critical spots were cushioned with mesh fencing, rock belting and other such means of technology,” he said.The experts called for creation of a proper drainage system along the ghat roads and the Seshachalam forest and hill ranges, so that there is no percolation of water on the hills leading to landslides.The TTD chairman directed that the authorities take steps for allowing traffic through a link road that connects the second ghat road beyond the damaged portion, from Saturday, after examining the safety aspects.At present, traffic for to-and-fro travel to Tirumala is being allowed only on the first ghat road on alternate hours – one hour for the uphill journey and one hour for the downward journey. “This is resulting in the pilgrims waiting for hours at Tirumala, Alipiri foothills and bus stand. If the people are allowed to take the link road, it will ease the traffic to a large extent,” Reddy added.
03-12-2021||India||HT THIS DAY: December 4, 1979 — Hockey wizard Dhyan Chand dead at 74||New Delhi- Hockey wizard Dhyan Chand who mesmerized the world with his brilliant stick work for more than three decades, passed away at 4-23 a.m. at the All Indian Institute of Medical Sciences here today (December 3). Dhyan Chand was 74. He is survived by his wife, seven sons and fore daughters.Dhyan Chand had been ailing for some time in Jhansi before he was brought to Delhi on Nov 23 and admitted to AIIMS. He had several complications like cancer of the lever, diabetes and kidney trouble. Eventually he succumbed to the first ailment.Dhyan Chand developed respiration failure last evening and by about 00-30 a.m. the doctors slated intensive resuscitation. He collapsed at about 4-25 a.m.Hundreds of friends, relatives, hockey officials and others thronged the hospital on hearing the news. The body is being flown to his home town Jhansi in the afternoon and according to his son, Ashok Kumar, will be cremated there tomorrow morning.Born at Allahabad on Aug. 28 1905 Dhyan Chand achieved immortal fame with his artistry and skill in hockey. Popularly known as “dada” to friends and admirers, he represented India in three successive Olympics-1928 at Los Angeles, 1932 at Amsterdam and led the victorious India team in the 1936 Berlin Olympics. A story goes about the Berlin Olympics that Dhyan Chand was invited for a cup of tea by Adolf Hitler after India had routed Germany in the final.Dhyan Chand was at that time an ordinary sepoy in the Indian army when Hitler came to know about his rank he was reported to have offered him the title of Field Marshal if he would migrate to Germany.Another story is that most of the Europeans did not believe the way Dhyan Chand used to sprint down with the ball glued to his stick. In fact, some people are reported to have examined his stick to find out whether —some- thing like a magnet was attached to his stick. They were left bewildered when they found nothing.Dhyan Chand rose to the rank of a Major and retained it till his retirement In 1986. He was the recepient of Padma Bhushan in 1956 and then joined the Rajkumari Amrit Kaur coaching scheme in 1961 a0 the chief hockey coach.In the hospital at the AIIMS, last he talked about hockey was his distress at Mehboob not coming upto his expectations.PTI adds: From Amsterdam Olympics in 1928 to those at Los Angeles 1932, and Berlin 1936, Dhyan Chand enthralled the world of hockey. A ‘wizaed’, a ‘juggler’ he was hailed by connoisseur and critic alike. But to Dhyan Chand hockey was not only an art but also a science in which came into play the laws of force, of spatial magnitude.At Berlin, efter India beat Germany in the final 8-1 (six scored by Dhyan Chand), astride the victory stand, he was asked by Hitler “What are you?” Dhyan Chand: “A Sepoy in the Indian Army.”Hitler: “If you were a German, I would have made you at least a major-general.”India was then an enslaved nation, but on freedom. Dhyan Chand was not considered worthier than to be a major, to which rank he was elevated. But more honoured he was in 1956 on conferment of Padma Bhushan by President Rajendra Prasad.World War II blitzed two Olympics, one to have been held In Tokyo in 1940 and another in 1944. It also ended the career of Dhyan Chand who last played international hockey in 1948 leading an Indian team to East Africa. On return he hung up his stick for good.Yet in the shortened span of his career in the international arena, Dhyan Chand scored around 400 goals, a record that has not been equalled in the last 25 years in the course of which eight Olympics were held, nor will it perhaps ever be equalled, let alone surpassed.As a hockey player he was incomparable even among his illustrious contemporaries, Jaipal Singh Dara and his own brother, Roop Singh, with whom he made a perfect combination, the former as centre forward and the latter as inside-left.Hockey in the first quarter of the century was a pastime of the British military officers and confined to cantonments. Dhyan Chand took it to the cities of India to give birth to Indian hockey. The Indian Hockey Federation (IHF) was born in 1925.Born in 1906, in Allahabad, Dhyan Chand joined the Indian Army as a sepoy, spending most of his time in Jhansi. It was here that he perfected his game which he began playing at the age of 17.In 1926, Dhyan Chand was a member of the Indian Army team which toured Australia and New Zealand. The team won all its matches to put India on the world hockey map. That was Dhyan Chand’s preparation for the first Olympics, in which India could only participate under British flag, on the withdrawal of the British national team.After Amsterdam came the Los Angeles Olympics which too India won, defeating the United States by 24 coals of which eight came from the stick of Dhyan Chand. En route matches were played in Japan and on landing in California.For the Berlin Olympics, Dhyan Chand led India. He was at the zenith of his career, that war practically ended.On his retirement in 1948, Dhyan Chand devoted himself to coaching and took a hand in shaping the 1948 and 1952 Olympic teams under Kishan Lal and Digvijay Singh “Babu”.If Dhyan Chand helped in the birth of Indian hockey, he had also the misfortune of seeing its decline and fall at Rome in 1980.Indian hockey is dead, so Dhyan Chand.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/htthisday-december-4-1979-hockey-wizard-dhyan-chand-dead-at-74-101638549532457.html
03-12-2021||India||PM Modi to lay foundation of Delhi-Dehradun Economic Corridor tomorrow. Details here||Prime Minister Narendra Modi will on Saturday inaugurate and lay the foundation stone of multiple projects worth around ₹18,000 crore in Uttarakhand, including the Delhi-Dehradun Economic Corridor. An official release issued by the Union ministry of road transport and highways said a significant focus of the Prime Minister's visit to the state will be on projects to improve the road infrastructure, which will make travel smooth and safer and increase tourism in the region.The Delhi-Dehradun Economic Corridor (from Eastern Peripheral Expressway Junction to Dehradun) is itself being built at a total cost of around Rs. 8,300 crore, and it is in line with the Prime Minister's vision to boost connectivity in the areas which were once considered far-flung.What are the 4 sections of the Delhi-Dehradun Economic Corridor?According to the central government, the entire length of the Delhi-Dehradun Economic Corridor from Akshardham (starting point) to Dehradun will be divided into four sections: Section 1 is being developed to six lanes with 6L service road being in built-up reach, with complete access control, and is divided into 2 packages. Package 1 falls in the Delhi portion in the length of 14.75 km and out of this 6.4 km is elevated. Package 2 falls in Uttar Pradesh in the length of 16.85 km and out this 11.2 km is elevated. This section would start from Akshardham Temple near Delhi-Meerut Expressway (DME) and pass through Geeta colony, Khajurikhas, Mandola, etc. This highway aims to decongest North East Delhi and also enhance the development potential of Tronica city, Mandola Vihar Yojana of the Uttar Pradesh government.Section 2 is planned six lanes fully access controlled and the entire length is in Greenfield, passing through the districts of Baghpat, Shamli, Muzaffarnagar, and Saharanpur. The detailed project report (DPR) is complete. The land acquisition process is currently on and the respective forest and environment clearance proposals have been applied.Section 3 starts from the Saharanpur bypass and ends at Ganeshpur. The entire length has recently been completed to 4 lanes by the National Highways Authority of India (NHAI). Necessary underpasses and service roads are being planned to make it fully access controlled to achieve a minimum speed of 100 km/hr.Section 4 is planned six lanes with complete access controlled. This section primarily passes through a reserve forest in Uttar Pradesh and Uttarakhand. Of the 20 km, 5 km is Brownfield expansion and 15 km is realignment comprising of elevated wildlife corridor (12 km) and approaches to a tunnel (structure 340 m). Rights-Of-Way (ROW) is restricted to 25 metres in general due to wildlife concerns. All forest and wildlife clearances for this section have been obtained.What are the features of the Delhi-Dehradun Economic Corridor?What are the major benefits of the Delhi-Dehradun Economic Corridor?||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/pm-modi-to-lay-foundation-of-delhi-dehradun-economic-corridor-tomorrow-details-here-101638546369110.html
03-12-2021||India||Karnataka imposes fresh curbs, vaccination mandatory to visit public spaces||The Karnataka government on Friday said that only fully vaccinated people will be allowed in public spaces like theatres and educational institutions among other places as fresh restrictions were announced to contain the growing threat of the Omicron variant of the novel Coronavirus.“The entry to malls, cinema halls/theatres shall be allowed only to persons who are vaccinated with two doses of the Covid-19 vaccine,” R Ashok, Karnataka’s minister for Revenue said on Friday in Bengaluru.The minister added that parents of children below 18 years will have to mandatorily be vaccinated in order for the latter to attend physical classes, he added.The statements come a day after the Union government confirmed the first two known cases of the Omicron variant of the virus in Karnataka.The fresh curbs have raised apprehensions in the southern states where unverified Whatsapp forwards of possible lockdowns have been doing the rounds. Conflicting statements from ministers have only added to the prevailing confusion in the state as chief minister Basavaraj Bommai and his cabinet have not been in sync.“It is reiterated that there shall be strict implementation of a five-fold strategy of test-track-treat-vaccination and enforcing adherence to Covid-19. appropriate behaviour,” according to the new guidelines.The government reiterated that all events in schools and other public places have to be put off at least until January 15, 2022.However, the government also said that the scheduled winter session of the state legislature in Belagavi, about 500 km from Bengaluru, will start from December 13.Gatherings in marriages will be limited to below 500.“The cultural activities/fests and functions in all educational institutions should be postponed till 15th January 2022. Compulsory testing of health workers, old persons above 65 years and persons with comorbidities will be undertaken by the Government,” the guidelines issued by the state government read. Even government officials will have to be completely vaccinated.The state government has been trying to increase its vaccination coverage to help reduce the impact of a possible third wave in the state.According to data, coverage for the second dose in the state has increased to 62%. The percentage of those who have received the first dose has reached 92% as a total of 7.50 crore doses have been administered till date.But there appears to be little regulation on election campaigning as all three major political parties continue campaigning for the December 10 MLC polls.“There shall be intensive containment (micro containment measures) and active surveillance in clusters/area reporting higher cases to contain the spread locally,” according to the government.Karnataka has already put in place restrictions for people coming in from Kerala and Maharashtra. The government also made it mandatory to carry out testing of all passengers coming from abroad at Bengaluru and other airports.Dr CN Ashwath Narayan, Karnataka’s minister for higher education, information technology, biotechnology, science and technology on Friday said that several other countries had implemented such restrictions and Karnataka too had similar ideas.“There aren’t any countries that have made it mandatory but there are a few who have made some restrictions for unvaccinated people in public spaces like malls, cinema, schools, colleges, offices,” Narayana said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/karnataka-imposes-fresh-curbs-vaccination-mandatory-to-visit-public-spaces-101638548752325.html
03-12-2021||India||Cyclone Jawad’s storm surge impact to be amplified by spring tide||Cyclone Jawad has formed over westcentral Bay of Bengal on Friday which is likely to touch and move along the Odisha coast on Saturday. Jawad coincides with a new moon night’s spring tide which is likely to amplify the storm surge associated with Jawad.The deep depression over westcentral Bay of Bengal intensified further into Cyclone Jawad (pronounced as Jowad) on Friday afternoon over westcentral Bengal and lay about 420 km south-southeast of Vishakhapatnam (Andhra Pradesh), 530 km south-southeast of Gopalpur (Odisha) and 650 km south-southwest of Paradip (Odisha).Jawad is likely to move north-westwards, intensify further and reach west-central Bay of Bengal off north Andhra Pradesh – south Odisha coasts by Saturday morning. Thereafter it is likely to recurve north-northeastwards and move along Odisha coast reaching near Puri around Sunday noon. Subsequently it is likely to continue to move north-northeastwards along coastal Odisha towards West Bengal coasts. Jawad’s intensity is likely to increase to a severe cyclone with wind speed of 90 to 100 kmph gusting to 110 for some hours on Saturday.“Though we are not expecting major intensification of this cyclone, the impact of Jawad may be amplified because of the new moon and spring tide. The storm surge due to Jawad is expected to be .5 to 1 metre but when coinciding with spring tide it can be two to three times higher. Extremely heavy rainfall is also expected. The impact of tidal waves will be higher. Jawad is expected to touch Odisha coast on Saturday and then it will move along the coast,” said Sunitha Devi, in charge of cyclones at IMD.“Fourth December being a new Moon day, higher astronomical tides of about 2-4 m height are likely along the coast of Odisha & West Bengal,” IMD has warned.Jawad’s track is unusual for December. Cyclone Burevi had formed last year on December 2 and made landfall in Sri Lanka. “Its not unusual for cyclones to develop in December but normally the track is either towards Tamil Nadu or towards Bangladesh and Myanmar, its very unusual to see a tropical cyclone moving towards Odisha and north Andhra Pradesh coasts in December,” added Devi.Moderate rainfall at most places with heavy to very heavy rainfall and extremely heavy rain (over 20 cm) is likely over south coastal Odisha and north coastal Andhra Pradesh and heavy to very heavy rainfall over north coastal Odisha and adjoining interior districts and also over coastal districts of Gangetic west Bengal on Saturday.Moderate rainfall at many places with heavy to very heavy rainfall is likely over Gangetic West Bengal and north Odisha and heavy rainfall at isolated places over Assam, Meghalaya, Mizoram and Tripura. Heavy to very heavy rainfall is likely over Assam, Meghalaya, Mizoram and Tripura and heavy rainfall at isolated places over west Bengal.Gale winds speed reaching 70-80 kmph gusting to 90 kmph is likely to prevail over westcentral & adjoining northwest Bay of Bengal from Friday evening and gradually increase becoming 90-100 kmph gusting to 110 kmph over northwest & adjoining westcentral Bay of Bengal from the evening of Saturday for the subsequent 12 hours. Squally wind speed reaching 45-55 kmph gusting to 65 kmph likely to commence along & off North Andhra Pradesh – Odisha coasts from the mid-night of Friday and increase gradually becoming 80-90 kmph gusting to 100 kmph from Saturday, for the subsequent 12 hours. Squally wind speed reaching 45-55 kmph gusting to 65 kmph also likely to commence along & off West Bengal coast from Saturday evening and become Gale wind speed reaching 60-70 kmph gusting to 80 kmph from the morning of Sunday for the subsequent 12 hours. Sea condition would be High (6 – 9 m wave height) over central Bay of Bengal during next 12 hours and High to very High (9 – 14 m wave height) over west-central & northwest Bay of Bengal from Saturday for the subsequent 24 hours. Sea condition will be rough to very rough over along & off North Andhra Pradesh – Odisha coast from the midnight of Friday and become High to very High from Saturday afternoon, for the subsequent 12 hours.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/cyclone-jawad-s-storm-surge-impact-to-be-amplified-by-spring-tide-101638547852089.html
03-12-2021||India||Goa Archbishop nudges govt to preserve Old Goa heritage precinct||PANAJI: Goa Archbishop Filipe Neri Ferrão has called on the state authorities to preserve the Old Goa heritage precinct lest it loses its world heritage status granted by UNESCO amid continuing protests by civil society groups who want a structure built with dubious permissions, which were recently revoked, to be demolished.At a gathering on the occasion of the feast of St Francis Xavier, revered in Goa as Goencho Saib (lord of Goa), the Archbishop, the much-respected head of the Christian community in Goa, called on the Goa government to “refrain from any acts and decisions which are illegal and detrimental to the preservation of the religious and heritage sanctity of Old Goa.”“We well know that this site is not only a holy site but also a historical and a prominent site of global cultural heritage. Being that as it is, it is our responsibility as well as the law to give this place the respect it deserves,” the Archbishop said. “We should know that any undue or offensive interventions even by legitimate stakeholders in and around these monuments can have grave consequences and even attract the derecognition of their world heritage status which would be a tremendous and severe loss to Goa,” he said.The Archbishop also expressed solidarity with the civil society protests including an ongoing hunger strike being undertaken by the Save Old Goa Action Committee demanding the demolition of a structure built in violation of heritage norms. A two-storeyed structure being built barely metres from the protected monuments within the UNESCO recognised heritage precinct of Old Goa being built by Manish Munot, the husband of BJP national spokesperson Shaina NC and a local collaborator -- Suvarna Lotlikar, the wife of Goa Cricket Association chief Suraj Lotlikar -- has snowballed into a major political controversy. The project proponents applied for licence of repair and reconstruction claiming that there was a damaged structure.While there did exist a small ‘shed’ known as loja in Portuguese - it was used to store coconuts at the site - the project representatives submitted a photograph of an old palatial house that was claimed to be the existing structure.The Goa Town and Country Planning Department has since revoked the permissions granted to the site citing false representation while applying for a licence including incorrect ownership documents, building a structure taller and wider than the original structure they were seeking to ‘repair’ among other illegalities.The Town and Country Planning Department has further written to the local panchayat to “initiate necessary action” on the structure since the permissions have been revoked. Once the capital of the expansive Portuguese maritime empire, much of Old Goa now lies in ruins except for a few churches and other structures that are now being preserved by the Archaeological Survey of India and are also considered sacred from a religious point of view.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/goa-archbishop-nudges-govt-to-preserve-old-goa-heritage-precinct-101638547131957.html
03-12-2021||India||News updates from HT: Nearly 65 trains cancelled in Andhra due to cyclone Jawad and all the latest news||Here are today’s top news, analysis, and opinion. Know all about the latest news and other news updates from Hindustan Times.Trains cancelled and schools shut in Andhra ahead of cyclone Jawad’s landfallNearly 65 trains from Visakhapatnam district of Andhra Pradesh scheduled for Friday and Saturday have been cancelled in wake of cyclone Jawad. Read more.18 out of 16,000 international flyers tested positive for Covid-19: MandaviyaUnion health minister Mansukh Mandaviya on Friday informed Parliament that among 16,000 passengers from 'at-risk' countries who have been tested for Covid-19 with the RT-PCR method, only 18 people have been found to be infected so far. Read more.Congress slams Centre for having ‘no record’ of farmers’ death, demands compensationThe Congress on Friday produced a list of martyred farmers who lost their lives during the agitation against the controversial farm laws and slammed the BJP-led Centre over their remark in Parliament that the government did not have any record of such deaths. Read more.'He didn't seek my counsel. I imposed myself on him': Gavaskar reveals having a word with Mayank Agarwal before 2nd TestThe legendary Sunil Gavaskar has revealed that he got into Mayank Agarwal’s ears during the first India vs New Zealand Test in Kanpur and offered him some advice. Read more.Abhishek Bachchan says Aishwarya Rai ‘allowed’ him to work, said: 'You go act, I'll take care of Aaradhya'Abhishek Bachchan, in a recent interview, said Aishwarya Rai Bachchan has ‘immensely’ contributed to his acting career. Read more.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/news-updates-from-ht-nearly-65-trains-cancelled-in-andhra-due-to-cyclone-jawad-101638544469711.html
03-12-2021||India||Omicron variant: What we know so far on cases in India and vaccine efficacy||Even as fears over Omicron rise across the world, the Union health ministry on Friday said the new variant of the coronavirus disease is expected to cause less severe infections in India, owing to vaccinations and a prior exposure to the Delta variant that had infected nearly 70 per cent of the population during the second wave of pandemic.The country has so far reported two cases of the Omicron variant -- both in Karnataka, following which its state government announced preventive measures, including compulsory two-dose vaccination for entering malls, cinema halls or theatres, and for parents of school or college-going students.Chief minister Basavaraj Bommai has also directed officials to increase screening of international passengers at airports, asked educational institutions to postpone their public events, and limit gatherings, meetings, conferences to 500 people.Here's what we know so far on the Omicron variant in India:||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/omicron-variant-what-we-know-so-far-on-cases-in-india-and-vaccine-efficacy-101638536803021.html
03-12-2021||India||US took 50 years to fine-tune joint structures, integration is complicated, says Navy chief||The US military took almost 50 years to fine-tune its current joint command and control structures after the Japanese attack on Pearl Harbour during World War II highlighted the need for greater coordination among American forces, India’s new navy chief Admiral R Hari Kumar said on Friday. His comments, in response to a question on jointness, were a broader attempt to put across the complications associated with creating integrated commands at a time when India is inching towards rolling out its theaterisation plan to enhance the military’s effectiveness and reshape the conduct of future operations. “Jointness and integration can’t happen in a very, very short time. If you look at the US military, it has taken almost 50 years,” the navy chief said at his annual press briefing on the eve of Navy Day. “The thrust for jointness came after the Pearl Harbour attack. I am not saying that we should take a similar time but it’s a complicated process, and it’s not something which can just be put together in a short time,” the navy chief said.The US military’s joint command and control model is the outcome of the Goldwater-Nichols Defense Reorganization Act passed by the Congress in 1986. Kumar said the navy fully supported the ongoing defence reforms to enhance tri-service synergy. The current theaterisation model seeks to set up four integrated commands --- two land-centric theatres, an air defence command and a maritime theatre command. “We are looking at the establishment of the Maritime Theatre Command in the near future, which would further buttress joint planning and joint application of force. The details are being worked out and may be finalised by the middle of next year,” said Kumar, who took over as navy chief on November 30. He was closely associated with the theaterisation drive in a former role as chief of integrated defence staff to the chairman, chiefs of staff committee (COSC). The department of military affairs (DMA), headed by chief of defence staff (CDS) General Bipin Rawat who is spearheading the theaterisation drive, last month asked the three services to expedite their ongoing studies on the creation of theatre commands and submit comprehensive reports within six months. The deadline for submitting the reports was advanced from September 2022 to April 2022. Elaborating on the proposed Maritime Theatre Command, Kumar said the existing command and control structures would largely remain intact with a lean “theatre command organisation superimposed on them.” The charter of the Maritime Theatre Commander will largely be operations, with little administration or maintenance role, he said. “The navy chief at some point will be responsible only for raising, training and sustaining forces. But certainly, the chief will be in the loop for operations as well because he will be part of the COSC,” Kumar said. . “These are the broad contours that we are looking at. It may happen in six months...it may take a little longer. The timeframe will depend on how we resolve the complexities involved and the nitty-gritty of theatre commands,” Kumar said. Any structural changes to an effective organisation to ensure future readiness require detailed deliberations among stakeholders and smooth transition management, said Lieutenant General Vinod Bhatia (retd), the former director of the Centre for Joint Warfare Studies. “Security challenges dictate that we set up theatre commands at the earliest,” Bhatia added. The armed forces currently have 17 single-service commands spread across the country. The Indian Army and the Indian Air Force have seven commands each, while the Indian Navy has three. Creating theatres would involve merging the existing commands.The army’s Northern Command is the only single-service command that will stay outside the scope of the military’s theaterisation drive because of its critical role. The Udhampur-based command is responsible for guarding the country’s borders with Pakistan and China in the north, and is the nerve centre of counterterrorism operations in Jammu and Kashmir. Kumar said the creation of DMA and the post of CDS two years ago was “the single most important” higher defence organisation reform in the Indian military since Independence. “The benefits include clear dissemination of national policy objectives to the military, greater awareness of national challenges, direct responsibility and accountability to the political executive, faster decisions and approvals and fewer layers of bureaucracy,” the navy chief said. The appointment of a CDS was one of the most significant recommendations made by the K Subrahmanyam-led Kargil Review Committee (KRC) that was constituted in the immediate aftermath of the 1999 Kargil war to examine lapses that allowed Pakistani soldiers to occupy strategic heights, the initial sluggish Indian response, and suggest measures to strengthen national security. On the challenge posed by the Chinese navy seeking to increase its footprint in the Indian Ocean Region, Kumar said the Indian Navy was keeping the region under constant surveillance and tracking the deployments of the People’s Liberation Army Navy (PLAN). “We have our plans in place. There is constant surveillance by our aircraft and mission-based deployed ships. The Chinese activities and deployments are kept under close watch,” he added.
03-12-2021||India||Out of 16,000 international flyers in India, 18 tested Covid-19 positive, says health minister||Union health minister Mansukh Mandaviya on Friday informed Parliament that among 16,000 passengers from 'at-risk' countries who have been tested for Covid-19 with the RT-PCR method, only 18 people have been found to be infected so far. The minister's statement came amid growing fears of the spread of Omicron as India reported two cases of the new variant a day ago.“RT-PCR testing of over 16,000 passengers arriving on 58 flights from 'at risk' countries done so far. Eighteen of these tested positive in RT-PCR testing, their genome sequencing is underway so that it can be determined if they have Omicron variant,” he said while addressing the Lok Sabha during the Question Hour.Mandaviya further said genome sequencing for Omicron detection is underway for such international passengers.India's two of the first cases of Omicron variant of the coronavirus were reported in Karnataka on Thursday. Samples of several other international flyers arriving in Mumbai and Delhi, among other cities, are undergoing tests to identify the strain."A decision on booster dose and jabs for children will be taken on the basis of scientific advice," the health minister added while appealing to opposition parties to trust scientists.Mandaviya said the government has taken several measures to make the country ready for any future challenges and adopted the buffer stock policy to ensure that all states have enough medicines to deal with any further surge in Covid-19 cases."Under the Narendra Modi government, work is going on to strengthen weak health infrastructure. Without blaming previous governments that ignored health infrastructure, the government worked for results. In the last two years, decisions taken under the leadership of PM Modi show that this government works with willpower and not power," he said during a discussion on India's Covid-19 management.Mandaviya also highlighted that with 25,000 cases and 340 deaths per million population, India had "one of the lowest (cases) in the world" and slammed the Opposition's attack for allegedly hiding the actual number of Covid-19 fatalities during the second wave.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/out-of-16-000-international-flyers-in-india-18-tested-covid-19-positive-says-health-minister-101638531560077.html
03-12-2021||India||Cyclone Jawad landfall: Trains cancelled and schools shut in Andhra, 46 NDRF teams deployed in 3 states||Authorities in Andhra Pradesh on Friday ordered closure of schools and cancelled a large number of trains in view of Cyclone Jawad that is likely to reach the coasts of Andhra Pradesh and Odisha in the next few hours.About 65 trains from Visakhapatnam district of Andhra Pradesh scheduled for Friday and Saturday have been cancelled, senior divisional commercial manager of Waltair division of East Coast Railways, AK Tripathi, told news agency ANI.Besides, the district administrations of Srikakulam and Visakhapatnam have ordered a closure of all schools till Saturday.Earlier in the day, the India Meteorological Department (IMD) said the deep depression over the Bay of Bengal intensified into Cyclone Jawad at 11.30am. It is expected to move northwestwards and reach the coasts of north Andhra Pradesh and south Odisha by Saturday morning before changing route to make landfall near Odisha’s Puri on Sunday noon.After the landfall process, the cyclone is expected to reach a maximum sustained wind speed of 80-90kmph gusting to 100kmph. Earlier, the Met department said the cyclone would primarily affect Odisha, Andhra Pradesh, Tamil Nadu and Gangetic West Bengal.In its latest bulletin, the IMD has forecasted heavy rainfall alert over north coastal Andhra Pradesh and south coastal Odisha for Friday and heavy to extremely heavy falls over the same areas for Saturday. Meanwhile, a very heavy rainfall alert has been issued over Gangetic Bengal for Saturday.Visakhapatnam, Srikakulam and Vizianagaram that are located in north coastal Andhra Pradesh are expected to be affected by the cyclone, while Ganjam, Puri, Gagapati and Jagatsinghpur will be impacted in Odisha.Due to the heavy rain, IMD DG Mrityunjay Mahapatra said electric and telephone lines could be disrupted in Andhra Pradesh.Due to heavy rainfall, electric&telephonic lines can be disrupted. Cyclone alerts are announced in the coastal regions of Andhra Pradesh. This can turn into a cyclonic storm and is likely to reach Vishakhapatnam by the evening tomorrow: Mrityunjay Mahapatra(DG, IMD) pic.twitter.com/Imh7bTRPcHMeanwhile, the Odisha government has cancelled leaves of state employees and asked them to report to work on Sunday in view of cyclone Jawad. The state government has also cancelled the popular International Sand Art Festival and the Konark Festival, which commenced from December 1.The National Disaster Response Force (NDRF) has deployed as many as 46 of its teams across Andhra Pradesh, West Bengal and Odisha. “They are prepositioned there. IDS is on alert if the situation arises to airlift any of the teams,” said NDRF director general Atul Karwal, adding that a total of 18 teams are on standby.(With bureau inputs)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/trains-cancelled-and-schools-shut-in-andhra-ahead-of-cyclone-jawad-s-landfall-101638534822384.html
03-12-2021||India||Congress slams Centre for having ‘no record’ of farmers’ death, demands compensation||The Congress on Friday produced a list of martyred farmers who lost their lives during the agitation against the controversial farm laws and slammed the BJP-led Centre over their remark in Parliament that the government did not have any record of such deaths. “The Centre said that the Ministry of Agriculture has no record of these 700 martyred farmers. But we did some homework and as it turns out, there are 403 people who the Government of Punjab has compensated with ₹5 lakh.....Why doesn’t the Government of India have the decency to give compensation to the families of the martyred,” questioned Congress leader Rahul Gandhi at a press conference. He added that if the government is having difficulties procuring the names of the martyred farmers, then they can refer to Congress’ list and provide the families with ex gratia.The Wayanad MP added, “The Prime Minister admitted his mistake and apologized to the nation. As a result of that “mistake”, 700 people have died. The government should pay a minimum compensation for the sacrifices they (farmers) made.” He also alleged that PM Modi would do anything for his industrialist friends.Members of the Bharatiya Janata Party were unavailable for comment.Through a written reply, Agriculture Minister Narendra Singh Tomar told the Lok Sabha on December 1 that the government did not have any record of farmers who died during the protest and therefore there was no question of compensation to the families. This is the second time the Union government has informed Parliament it had no information on farmers’ death at various protest sites. During the Monsoon Session too, held in July and August, the government said it had no data.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/congress-slams-centre-for-having-no-record-of-farmers-death-demands-compensation-101638535070558.html
03-12-2021||India||Karnataka issues new Omicron rules, bans unvaccinated people from public spaces||A day after India's very first Omicron cases were detected in Karnataka, the state government on Friday issued fresh orders related to coronavirus disease (Covid-19) wherein it banned unvaccinated people from accessing certain facets of public life, such as parks, shopping malls, and cinema theatres.The new orders also prohibited any gathering and cultural event at schools till January 22 next year. The decisions were taken at a meeting, chaired by Karnataka chief minister Basavaraj Bommai, to discuss the government's action plan with senior ministers, administration officials, and public health experts.Here are the key pointers from the new Omicron guidelines issued by the Karnataka government:Two men in Karnataka have tested positive for the Omicron variant of the coronavirus, the union health ministry said on Thursday. They are the country’s first cases of the new variant of concern.“Two cases of Omicron have been found positive: a 66-year-old male, and a 46-year-old male. We got the results very late last night,” Lav Agarwal, joint secretary at the union ministry of health and family welfare, told reporters. “All primary and secondary contacts have been identified and are under isolation.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/karnataka-issues-new-omicron-rules-bans-unvaccinated-people-from-public-spaces-101638530508032.html
03-12-2021||India||News updates from HT: Cyclone Jawad to make landfall near Puri and all the latest news||Here are today’s top news, analysis and opinion. Know all about the latest news and other news updates from Hindustan Times.Deep depression intensifies into Cyclone Jawad, to make landfall near PuriThe deep depression in the Bay of Bengal intensified into Cyclone Jawad on Friday afternoon, according to the Indian Meteorological Department. Read moreCovid cases, deaths per million in India one of lowest in world, says Mandaviya in ParliamentUnion health minister Mansukh Mandaviya on Friday said in the Lok Sabha that statistics related to the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) in India were one of the lowest in the world. Read moreOdisha cancels int'l sand festival in Konark in view of Cyclone JawadThe Odisha tourism department on Friday called off the Konark Festival and International Sand Art Festival in view of the impending cyclonic storm ‘Jawad’. Read morePunjab Police recover tiffin bomb, four hand-grenades from Gurdaspur villageClose on the heels of the busting of two Pakistan ISI-sponsored terror modules in Gurdaspur this week, Punjab Police on Friday recovered four hand-grenades and a tiffin bomb concealed in a sack from Salempur Araiyan village of the border district. Read moreTadap movie review: Ahan Shetty makes an aggressive but starry debutA heroic entry on a motorbike driving through hills, a song in the background, a joint being rolled and a few closeup shots of a rugged man. Before we see Ahan Shetty's face on screen, we see his punch breaking the door, making a debut in style. Read moreWATCH: Virat Kohli shows his displeasure as controversy surrounds India captain's dismissal for duck in 2nd Test vs NZVirat Kohli's return to the Indian team was marred with controversy as the captain was dismissed for a four-ball duck against New Zealand on Day 1 of the second Test in Mumbai. Watch hereAnand Mahindra posts incredible pictures of Kerala’s Kochi. Seen them yet?Anand Mahindra often takes to Twitter to share various kinds of posts. From motivating shares to funny posts to pictures capturing the beauty of India, his tweets are of different types. See here||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/news-updates-from-ht-cyclone-jawad-to-make-landfall-near-puri-and-all-the-latest-news-101638530279670.html
03-12-2021||India||On govt's no data of dead farmers, Rahul Gandhi offers to submit list in Parliament||Congress leader Rahul Gandhi on Friday said his party will submit in Parliament a list of farmers who passed away during the protest against three central laws in the past one year.Hitting out at the Narendra Modi government for stating that it had no data on such deaths when asked about compensation, Gandhi said it was a lie.“A question was asked in Parliament whether the government proposes to provide financial assistance to the kin of farmers who died during the farmers' agitation. The ministry answered that it has no record in the matter and hence the question does not arise.”He asked why the PM did not have the dignity to compensate farmers who have died. “The PM himself has said that he has made a mistake and apologised to the nation. As a result of that mistake, 700 people have died. Now you are lying about their names. Why don't you have the decency to give them what is their due?” Gandhi said.“How can the government say they have no data on farmers' death? The Punjab government and others have names, so why such lies?”“The Punjab government was not responsible for farm laws that led to the protests. It still gave ₹5 lakh each to families of 403 deceased farmers. It also gave jobs to 152. We also have a list of 100 names from other states and a third list which is public information of names that can easily be verified. But the government says that such a list does not exist,” he added.He further said the Modi government was unlikely to accept the farmers’ demands beyond repeal of farm laws. “Its intention is not right,” he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/on-govt-s-no-data-of-dead-farmers-rahul-gandhi-offers-to-submit-list-in-parl-101638530739673.html
03-12-2021||India||Taking a new step, says singer Sidhu Moosewala after joining Congress ahead of Punjab polls||Punjabi singer Sidhu Moosewala said on Friday he wants to raise the voice of his people as he joined the Congress party month ahead of the assembly elections in Punjab.Moosewala, whose real name is Shubhdeep Singh Sidhu, hails from Moosa village in Mansa district and his mother is a village head."It's my first press conference. Just three years back, I started singing. Now after four years I am taking a new step. Mansa is not that much developed, a part of this area raised me, I will raise my voice from here," Moosewala was quoted as saying by news agency ANI.Also read | Sidhu Moose Wala 'will be youth icon': CM Channi as Punjabi singer joins CongThe singer has faced criticism for allegedly promoting violence and gun culture in his songs.Nine people, including Moosewala and six policemen, were booked at the Dhuri Sadar police station on May 5, 2020, under Section 188 of the Indian Penal Code and Section 51 of the Disaster Management Act over a video showing the singer firing from a private weapon at the shooting range surfaced on social media.The same people were booked in Barnala on May 4 as Moosewala was seen firing from an official assault rifle at a shooting range at Badbar village of the district in another video.Also read | Court grants bail to singer Sidhu Moose Wala in Sangrur firing caseDeputy superintendent of police (DSP) Daljit Singh Virk, Julkan station house officer (SHO) Gurpreet Singh Bhinder, three assistant sub-inspectors (ASIs) and other police officials were suspended.Sidhu Moosewala was granted bail by a local court in a case involving firing at the Ladda Kothi shooting range in the Sangrur district in July last year.Sidhu Moosewala joined the Congress party in presence of Punjab chief minister Charanjit Singh Channi and the party’s unit president Navjot Singh Sidhu in Chandigarh.Also read | Barnala officer investigating Sidhu Moose Wala firing case changed, two SITs formed"He has won the hearts of everyone. He is a son of a farmer and his father is an ex-army officer. I am sure he will make Congress party proud," Channi said."Sidhu Moosewala is not new to Congress party. His mother is a sarpanch and I am sure he is going to be a youth icon. It's a proud moment for us. Whether or not he will fight the election, it will be decided later. Soon, he will meet the high command of the party as well,” Sidhu said."People like his singing. He is a popular international figure. He writes and sings songs in his own way. We welcome Moosewala Sahab, I am sure he will earn the same name in politics as he earned in singing."Punjab is scheduled to hold assembly polls in 2022.(With agency inputs)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/taking-a-new-step-says-singer-sidhu-moosewala-after-joining-congress-101638528536238.html
03-12-2021||India||Odisha cancels int'l sand festival in Konark in view of Cyclone Jawad||The Odisha tourism department on Friday called off the Konark Festival and International Sand Art Festival in view of the impending cyclonic storm ‘Jawad’. The department said the decision was taken based on reports of the India Meteorological Department (IMD) and advisories issued by special relief commissioner PK Jena on Jawad reaching the coasts of Odisha.“We regret to inform you that the Konark Festival and International Sand Art Festival held in Konark are being called off with immediate effect,” it said in a statement.Jena said the deep depression in the Bay of Bengal may intensify as cyclonic storms in the next eight to 10 hours. “The state administration has prepared its response measures for a possible landfall in Ganjam, Puri or Jagatsinghpur. Expected associated wind speed will be 80-100kmph,” he was quoted as saying by news agency ANI.Also read | Cyclone Jawad: Low-pressure system intensifies into cyclonic storm, to make landfall near Odisha's PuriEarlier, IMD director general said the cyclonic storm is likely to reach the west-central Bay of Bengal off the coast of north Andhra Pradesh and Odisha by Saturday morning. The name of the cyclone -- 'Jawad' -- has been proposed by Saudi Arabia.A low-pressure area had developed over the Andaman Sea on November 30. It intensified into a depression on December 2 and further into a deep depression on Friday morning. It turned into a cyclone on Friday noon, the IMD DG said.Very heavy rainfall is likely to start in north coastal Andhra Pradesh and south coastal Odisha by Friday evening. The intensity of rainfall is likely to increase on Saturday, he said.Also read | States brace as Cyclone Jawad nears, PM holds review meetA red colour warning has been issued for the Gajapati, Ganjam, Puri, Jagatsinghpur districts of Odisha. The red colour warning has also been issued for Andhra Pradesh's Srikakulam, Vizianagaram and Visakhapatnam districts for Saturday.The IMD has forecast heavy to very heavy rainfall at isolated places over West Bengal on Saturday and Sunday, and heavy rainfall at isolated places over Assam, Meghalaya and Tripura on Sunday and Monday.Sea conditions will remain unsafe for shipping and fishermen in central and north Bay of Bengal from Friday to Sunday.The IMD has been issuing regular bulletins with the latest forecast to all the states concerned."Off-shore and alongshore operations along the coast of north Andhra Pradesh, Odisha and West Bengal should be judiciously regulated on Friday and suspended on Saturday and Sunday to ensure safety of life and property," it said.(With inputs from agencies)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/odisha-cancels-int-l-sand-festival-in-konark-in-view-of-cyclone-jawad-101638528516939.html
03-12-2021||India||After a hiatus, Kodiyeri Balakrishnan returns as Kerala CPI(M) secretary||After a gap of one-year, senior leader Kodiyeri Balakrishnan returned to the Communist Party of India (Marxist) as state secretary on Friday, the party’s secretariat said. He was on leave for one-year citing health reasons. The chief reason behind his long leave, however, was the arrest of his second son Bineesh Kodiyeri in connection with a drug haul in Bengaluru last year. After spending one year in jail, his son was granted bail by the Karnataka High Court last month. After his son’s arrest, the party veteran offered to quit but the party granted him long leave citing his health condition. Suffering from cancer, later he went to the United States for treatment. A member of the CPI (M) politburo, Balakrishnan rose from the ranks having started his career as a student activist. Later he was the party district secretary of Kannur and was home minister in VS Achuthanandan’s ministry. Close to Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan, he is known for his organisational prowess but his family life often created problems for him. Besides Bineesh Kodiyeri, his first son Binoy Kodiyeri is also mired in a paternity case. A Mumbai-based woman accused him of raping her for years on the pretext of marrying her. In her complaint with the Mumbai Police, she said, Binoy had been exploiting her and she has an eight-year-old son out of this relationship. The former employee of a dance bar in Dubai said she did not know Binoy was already married and that he repeatedly lied and promised that he would marry her. The case is pending before the Maharashtra High Court now. His second son Bineesh Kodiyeri got into trouble in August 2020 after the arrest of one Anoop Mohammad and two others in Bengaluru and Mohammad later named Bineesh and said he was his business partner. Finally, the ED took over the case and Kodiyeri was arrested and charged under Section 19 (1) of the Prevention of Money Laundering Act. In the charge sheet the ED said he pumped in unaccounted for money into the bank account of alleged drug peddler Mohammad and took hefty returns due to it.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/after-a-hiatus-kodiyeri-balakrishnan-returns-as-kerala-cpi-m-secretary-101638528829799.html
03-12-2021||India||‘Not a subject of politics’: Mandaviya tells opposition over oxygen-related deaths during Covid-19 second wave||Union health minister Mansukh Mandaviya on Friday urged opposition parties to stop doing politics over the deaths related to the shortage of oxygen during the deadly second wave of the coronavirus pandemic in the country.While replying to a question from the opposition on the coronavirus pandemic, the Union health minister asked them to “take note” of the efforts taken by the Centre in mitigating the crisis."Sadly, even in such a situation, many people did not refrain from playing politics. I appeal, take note of our honest efforts. This is not a subject of politics," Mandaviya said during the Question Hour in the Lok Sabha.Also read | Covid cases, deaths per million in India one of lowest in world, says Mandaviya in ParliamentMandaviya also said as many as 19 states responded to the Centre’s query on deaths related to the shortage of oxygen during the second wave and only Punjab replied saying four deaths were being investigated.He said that the Union government had made “all possible efforts” to ensure the availability of oxygen and augmented production after the demand for the life-saving gas swelled during the second wave."The politics around oxygen started with the second wave of Covid-19 and some states went to courts and showed increased demand for oxygen in their respective states to get favourable orders. Prime Minister Narendra Modi asked chief ministers not to hide any number related to deaths due to Covid-19 or oxygen," Mandaviya said.He also said the Centre wrote thrice to states regarding the issue. "We made it public. Still, politics is happening," he added.During Parliament’s Monsoon Session earlier this year, the Centre said no deaths due to oxygen shortage were specifically reported by the states.During the proceedings later in the day, Mandaviya also said the number of Covid-19 cases and deaths per million population in India was among the “lowest in the world.”There were 25,000 cases and 340 deaths reported per million population in India, according to the data provided by the minister.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/not-a-subject-of-politics-mandaviya-tells-opposition-over-oxygen-related-deaths-during-covid-19-second-wave-101638527586824.html
03-12-2021||India||India finds key place in Germany’s new coalition treaty||India and the Indo-Pacific have found a prominent place in the treaty concluded by the three parties that will form the next coalition government in Germany, reflecting the importance of the partnership between the two countries. The recent German elections have resulted in the formation of a tripartite coalition for the first time by the Social Democrats, Greens and Free Democrats. The three parties finalised a deal for governing the country and outlined the way ahead in a coalition document released in Berlin on November 24. This document has a “strong reference” to India and the importance of strengthening the Indo-German strategic partnership. “India is mentioned very prominently in the coalition treaty, signalling the ever-growing importance of the partnership between the two countries,” the German embassy said in a statement. The coalition agreement includes an extensive section on the Indo-Pacific and why the region is important for German foreign policy. The agreement mentions the importance of an “intensive dialogue on peace and security in the Indo-Pacific”, and India is also mentioned in the context of the EU-India connectivity partnership and a planned free trade agreement (FTA). “Germany sees India as a central partner for solving the world’s biggest challenges: Questions of energy, climate change, food security and international peace. The incumbent German government has thus stressed on continuity of the policy towards India, as set forth by Chancellor Angela Merkel for 16 years,” the statement said. The tripartite coalition marks the beginning of a new era in German politics, as Merkel is not running for office after 16 years of being the Chancellor. “The fact that India finds a mention in the new and unprecedented three-party coalition shows the growing significance of India and the region for Germany’s foreign policy,” the statement said. The historically strong India-Germany ties were further strengthened by the strategic partnership agreement signed in 2001. The coalition agreement states this strategic partnership will be strengthened. India-Germany ties were also deepened by the establishment of inter-governmental consultations between the heads of state and their cabinets. Germany is one of two European countries that have unveiled an official policy on the Indo-Pacific region, and its document was published last year. Together with France, Germany pushed at the European Union for an EU Indo-Pacific strategy, which was released in April this year. The coalition agreement also proposes to create a points-based immigration system to draw in qualified workers, to phase out coal by 2030 and commits Germany to 80% renewable energy, to allow immigrants to apply for citizenship after five years and permit dual citizenship, to lower the voting age to 16, and to legalise the regulated sale of cannabis. 
03-12-2021||India||Will Omicron variant cause third wave in India? How to prevent it? FAQs answered||With two confirmed cases and several more suspects of Omicron in India so far, the government has ramped up all measures to contain the worrisome coronavirus variant from spreading further.However, this has not stopped the growing anxiety among citizens after having witnessed the devastation caused by the Delta variant during the second wave of coronavirus pandemic.To keep fears at bay, the Union ministry of health and family welfare along with The World Health Organization (WHO) released a list of frequently asked questions (FAQs).Here are five key questions answered:How did Omicron become a ‘variant of concern’ and how is it detected?Omicron, the latest known coronavirus variant, first reported in southern Africa in November, has shown a “very high” rate of mutation.“Given the collection of mutations in Omicron, which earlier individually have been associated with increased infectivity and/or immune evasion, and the sudden rise in the number of positive cases in South Africa, World Health Organization has declared Omicron as a Variant of Concern (VoC),” the Centre said.Omicron variant is detected using the most accepted testing method for SARS-CoV-2, that is, the RT-PCR method, followed by genome sequencing for final confirmation.What precautions should be taken?Measures to prevent Covid-19 infection with Omicron remains the same as previous strains – wearing a mask properly, taking both doses of Covid-19 vaccine, social distancing and maintaining ventilation to the maximum possible.Are existing vaccines effective against Omicron?“There is no evidence to suggest that existing vaccines do not work on Omicron,” the Centre noted, dismissing speculations that vaccination is ineffective against the latest variant of the coronavirus.While studies show the new strain can cause reinfection among vaccinated citizens, the government said that “vaccines are expected to still offer protection against severe disease and, vaccination with the available vaccines is crucial".Is the third wave likely soon?South Africa has declared the fourth wave of the coronavirus pandemic with the emergence of the Omicron variant.However, the government has said, “given the fast pace of vaccination in India and high exposure to Delta variant as evidenced by high seropositivity, the severity of the disease is anticipated to be low”.“Omicron cases are increasingly being reported from countries outside of South Africa and given its characteristics, it is likely to spread to more countries including India,” the health ministry also said.How is India responding to the Omicron outbreak?The Centre, with the help of the scientific and medical community, is monitoring the situation closely and issuing guidelines from time to time to avoid another surge of infections.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/will-omicron-variant-cause-third-wave-in-india-how-to-prevent-it-faqs-answered-101638519814353.html
03-12-2021||India||Covid cases, deaths per million in India one of lowest in world, says Mandaviya in Parliament||Union health minister Mansukh Mandaviya on Friday said in the Lok Sabha that statistics related to the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) in India were one of the lowest in the world.He said India recorded 25,000 virus cases and 340 deaths per million population and this was one of the lowest tallies in the world. The minister further said a total of 3.46 crore people contracted the virus of whom 4.6 lakh died, adding the fatality figure was 1.36 per cent of the cumulative tally.The minister said instead of blaming previous regimes that ignored health infrastructure, the Narendra Modi-led central government was undertaking work to strengthen the same. “Without blaming previous governments that ignored health infrastructure, we worked for results. In the last two years, decisions taken under leadership of PM Modi show that this government works with willpower and not power,” he said.Mandaviya said the first Covid-19 case in India was reported on January 13, 2020, in Kerala, but the first meeting of the joint monitoring committee constituted by Centre was held on January 8. “It means we were alert, a committee had been formed before the case was reported and it had started working,” he added.Speaking about vaccines and research, the minister said there was a time when it took three years for approval if someone did research on a vaccine. “Hence,  nobody used to do research. We scrapped those rules and the nation got vaccine after research within a year - this facility has been given by the PM,” he said.Earlier in the day, the health minister asked opposition parties in Parliament to stop playing politics over oxygen shortage during the second wave of the pandemic and take note of the Centre's efforts to ramp production of the life-saving gas to meet the surge in demand.Addressing the Lok Sabha during the Question Hour, he said the Union government made "all possible efforts" to ensure the availability of oxygen and increased its production following a rise in demand during the second wave of the pandemic.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/covid-cases-deaths-per-million-in-india-one-of-lowest-in-world-says-mandaviya-101638524320951.html
03-12-2021||India||Karnataka minister hints at restricting access for unvaccinated to public spaces||The Karnataka government on Friday said that it is contemplating emulating the German model in Bengaluru and other places wherein the unvaccinated will be restricted from entering public spaces.Dr CN Ashwath Narayan, Karnataka’s minister for higher education, information technology, biotechnology, science and technology on Friday said that several other countries implemented such restrictions and Karnataka too had similar ideas. “There aren’t any countries that have made it mandatory but there are a few that have made some restrictions for unvaccinated people in public spaces like malls, cinema school colleges, offices,” Narayana said. “So, if you want to go to public spaces, you should be mandatorily vaccinated’’ is something our government has made very clear. Our chief minister has also made it very clear that unvaccinated people should not go to public spaces,” he said, adding that the state government is “thinking” on implementing the same. The conflicting statements of the Basavaraj Bommai-led state government have on more than one occasion, added to the confusion among the state’s population over the last year and a half. The government has been deliberating on restrictions after at least two cases of Omicron, the new strain of the novel coronavirus disease, were detected and became the first known cases in the country. Ministers in Karnataka have often shared their views on the pandemic as well as restrictions in front of the media, adding to the apprehensions of another lockdown in the state.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/karnataka-minister-hints-at-restricting-access-for-unvaccinated-in-public-spaces-101638524451073.html
03-12-2021||India||'Needlessly provocative': Shashi Tharoor on BJP's protest in Parliament||Members of Parliament from the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) on Friday staged a protest in Parliament against the "unruly" behaviour of the opposition party leaders in the ongoing winter session. The MPs staged a protest at the same site where leaders of opposition parties were holding a protest against the suspension of 12 Rajya Sabha members.Reacting on the same, senior Congress leader Shashi Tharoor said, "It was needlessly provocative of the BJP MPs to come here and rub salt in the wounds.""If anything the BJP should have shown solidarity," Tharoor said adding, "My colleagues were unjustly expelled by a party that has institutionalised disruption."Since the commencement of the winter session of Parliament on Monday, there have been continuous disruptions in the functioning of both Houses due to the protests by the members of opposition parties.In a move that further fuelled the anger in opposition leaders, 12 MPs of Opposition parties in the Rajya Sabha were suspended from the winter session on the very first day on Monday for their alleged unruly conduct towards the end of the monsoon session in August when marshals were called after Opposition members stormed the Well of the House during the passage of the General Insurance Business (Nationalisation) Amendment Bill, 2021.The suspended members comprise six from the Congress -- Phulo Devi Netam, Chhaya Verma, Ripun Bora, Rajamani Patel, Syed Nasir Hussain and Akhilesh Prasad Singh. It also includes two from Trinamool Congress (Dola Sen, Shanta Chhetri), two from Shiv Sena (Priyanka Chaturvedi, Anil Desai) and one each from CPI (Binoy Viswam) and CPM (Elamaram Kareem).The winter session is likely to conclude on December 23.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/needlessly-provocative-shashi-tharoor-on-bjp-s-protest-in-parliament-101638521063655.html
03-12-2021||India||Cyclone Jawad: Deep depression intensifies into cyclonic storm, to make landfall near Odisha's Puri||The deep depression in the Bay of Bengal intensified into Cyclone Jawad on Friday afternoon, according to the Indian Meteorological Department. IMD director general Mrutunjay Mohapatra told a media briefing that the present wind speed of the cyclonic storm, currently about 420 km south-southeast of Vishakhapatnam, is between 60-70 kmph gusting ton 80 kmph. Mohapatra said that Cyclone Jawad is moving north-northwest and is expected to change the route and make landfall near Odisha's Puri on Sunday noon. By Saturday morning, Cyclone Jawad is likely to reach the west-central Bay of Bengal off North Andhra Pradesh and Odisha coast, the area which is expected to witness the maximum impact.IMD has suggested a total suspension of fishing operations and urged people in affected areas to remain indoors. The Met department said that there must be regulated traffic in the cyclone area and movement should be restricted.Warnings related to heavy rainfall forecast and high wind speed has been issued for Odisha, Andhra Pradesh, and Gangetic plains of West Bengal.Cyclone Jawad likely to hit Andhra, Odisha coastline on SaturdayThe IMD has predicted heavy fall in isolated places in north coastal Andhra Pradesh and south coastal Odisha from Friday evening as Cyclone Jawad moves further towards the coast. North coast Andhra Pradesh including Visakhapatnam, Srikakulam and Vizianagaram is likely to receive heavy to very heavy rainfall at a few places and extremely heavy rainfall at isolated places.The Met department has predicted heavy to very heavy rainfall at a few places with isolated extremely heavy falls (more than 20 cm) over Odisha's Gajapati, Ganjam, Jagatsinghpur districts on Saturday. Isolated places over north coastal Odisha are likely to receive heavy to very heavy rainfall on Sunday. Cyclone Jawad could also bring heavy rainfall at isolated places over Assam, Meghalaya and Tripura from December 5-6.Atul Karwal, director-general of the National Disaster Response Force, said that a total of 46 NDRF teams have been prepositioned in Odisha, West Bengal and Andhra Pradesh. He added that the Cabinet secretary will hold a meeting of the National Crisis Management Committee at 4 pm today to review the situation.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/cyclone-jawad-latest-update-low-pressure-system-intensifies-into-cyclonic-storm-to-make-landfall-near-odisha-s-puri-101638519116776.html
03-12-2021||India||‘PM’s apology incomplete’, says Rahul Gandhi over farm laws, poses 4 questions||Congress leader Rahul Gandhi on Friday said Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s apology during his announcement to repeal the three contentious farm laws last month would be “incomplete” without fulfilling the demands of the farmers protesting against the three laws.Rahul Gandhi also said Modi should explain in Parliament how he would “atone” for bringing in the three “anti-agriculture” laws.“As PM has apologised for making the anti-agriculture laws, so tell Parliament how will you atone,” Gandhi said in a tweet in Hindi and went on to pose four questions to Modi.जब PM ने कृषि-विरोधी क़ानून बनाने के लिए माफ़ी माँगी तो संसद में बतायें कि प्रायश्चित कैसे करेंगे-लखीमपुर मामले के मंत्री को बर्खास्त कब?शहीद किसानों को मुआवज़ा कितना-कब?सत्याग्रहियों के ख़िलाफ़ झूठे केस वापस कब?MSP पर क़ानून कब?इसके बिना माफ़ी अधूरी! #FarmLawsThe first question was about the Lakhimpur Kheri incident, in which eight people, including four farmers, died in October. Gandhi asked when will Ajay Kumar Mishra, the Union minister of state for home affairs, be removed from his post. Mishra’s son Ashish Mishra was allegedly present inside one of the vehicles which rammed into a group of protesting farmers, killing four of them.Gandhi then asked about the government’s plan on the compensation amount to be given to the families of the farmers who lost their lives during the agitation.Notably, Union agriculture minister Narendra Singh Tomar informed Parliament on December 1 the government had no record of the farmers who lost their lives during the year-long protests against the laws and hence the question of compensation does not arise.Also read | Eye on polls, Priyanka assures waiver of farm loan, dues for sugarcane farmersThe Congress leader also questioned the government over the cases lodged against the protesting farmers. “When will the false cases against the satyagrahis be taken back?” Gandhi asked in his tweet.Tomar said earlier that the matter would be dealt with by the concerned state governments.Gandhi then asked when a law on the minimum support price (MSP), a key demand of the farmers, would be drafted. The legal guarantee on MSP and withdrawal of cases registered against the farmers have been the major demands made by the protesting farmer unions.While the three laws have already been repealed after the government passed the Farm Law Repeal Bill, 2021, in Parliament during the ongoing Winter Session, the farmer unions have continued their protests pressing for the fulfilment of other demands.The opposition has criticised the Union government for passing the repeal bill without any discussion in the house.Earlier in the day, Congress MP Manickam Tagore moved an adjournment resolution in the Lok Sabha demanding a discussion on the Lakhimpur Kheri incident as well as the removal of Mishra from his position.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/pms-apology-incomplete-says-rahul-gandhi-over-farm-laws-poses-4-questions-101638519486562.html
03-12-2021||India||Omicron may be less severe due to vaccination, prior infections: Health ministry||The Union health ministry on Friday said the severity of the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) from the Omicron variant in India could be low due to the "fast pace" of vaccination and high exposure to the Delta variant. The ministry said that the new variant of concern is likely to spread to more countries including India but the scale and magnitude of the rise in infections is still not clear."Given the fast pace of vaccination in India and high exposure to Delta variant as evidenced by high seropositivity, the severity of the disease is anticipated to be low," the ministry said in a statement. "However, scientific evidence is still evolving."The ministry highlighted that Omicron has been declared a variant of concern by the World Health Organization (WHO) based on the observed mutations, their predicted features of increased transmission and immune evasion, and preliminary evidence of detrimental change in Covid-19 epidemiology, such as increased reinfections.INSACOG says booster doses against Covid-19 for people above 40 ‘may be considered’ in view of OmicronIt stressed the importance of getting vaccinated against Covid-19 with the available vaccines as they are expected to still offer protection against severe disease. While the ministry said the definitive evidence for increased remission and immune evasion is awaited, a preliminary study by South African researchers suggests that the Omicron variant is associated with a substantial ability to evade immunity from prior infection. According to the study, the VoC is three times more likely to cause reinfections compared to the Beta or Delta variants.The paper is available on a medical preprint server and has not yet been peer-reviewed.India has reported 9,216 new Covid cases in the last 24 hours as the active caseload stood below 1 lakh. Meanwhile, the cumulative vaccination coverage has exceeded the 125 crore mark, with 73.67 lakh doses administered on Friday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/omicron-may-be-less-severe-due-to-vaccination-prior-infections-health-ministry-101638515360759.html
03-12-2021||India||Organisations seek better facilities for Bhopal gas tragedy survivors amid Covid||On the eve of the 37th anniversary of the Bhopal gas tragedy, members of four organisations demanded better medical facilities for gas survivors amid the Covid-19 as the mortality rate of gas-affected people was found higher than other people, according to a joint statement issued by them. The organisation paid homage to the victims of the gas tragedy which took place near the Union Carbide factory by lighting candles at the plant. Shailendra Chaurasia of the Community Research Unit of Sambhavna Trust Clinic said, “The gas-affected survivors of December 1984 tragedy faced complication due to Covid-19 also. It is clear from the official data of deaths due to Covid-19 and a study of the trust that the rate of deaths of the population affected by the Union Carbide’s poisonous gas was five times higher than the common population. Now that the threat of the third wave is looming, it is very important that the government immediately provides special facilities to the Bhopal gas victims to save them from Covid.”According to official data of the health department, 1,003 people died of Covid-19 between April 2020 and July 2021 and out of the total, 467 were gas survivors. The total infected patients are 1,23,704 and the number of infected gas survivors is about 30,000 only. Chaurasia, however, urged the state government to hold a survey to assess the impact of Covid-19 on the health of gas tragedy survivors. The survivors’ organizations in Bhopal also condemned The Dow Chemical Company, USA, for its systematic discrimination against survivors of the gas disaster and victims of groundwater contamination. “Dow Chemical’s premium product Chlorpyriphos is banned in the USA for causing possible neurological damage, reduced IQ, loss of working memory, and attention deficit disorders and birth defects. However, in India, Corteva, a corporation with close ties to Dow Chemical, sells Dow Discriminates Banner.png Chlorpyriphos with the trade name Dursban without mentioning its health hazards or its regulatory ban in the USA,” said Rashida Bee, president of the Bhopal Gas Peedit Mahila Stationery Karmchari Sangh. Shahzadi Bee of Bhopal Gas Peedit Mahila Purush Sangharsh Morcha said, “In 2014, Dow donated water filtration systems and over 100,000 US dollars in aid to Flint, Michigan, in response to contamination of the city’s drinking water source. However, in Bhopal, mercury and cancer-causing chemicals have been found in the breast milk of nursing mothers living in areas affected by groundwater contamination due to hazardous waste from the Union Carbide factory and Dow refuses to clean up its toxic waste.” According to Rachna Dhingra of the Bhopal Group for Information & Action, “In 2005, a Dow joint-venture pleaded guilty and paid 84 million dollars criminal fine for participating in an international conspiracy to fix the prices of synthetic rubber in violation of the Sherman Act. In India, Dow has ignored six separate summonses to appear in the court’s proceedings in the disaster claiming that Indian criminal courts have no jurisdiction over TDCC. Dow Chemical’s double standards are evident in every aspect of their operations.” “In USA, Dow is paying for clean up of 171 contaminated sites including the Tittabawassee and Saginaw river plains near its headquarters in Midland Michigan. But on the matter of cleaning up the ongoing contamination in Bhopal, Dow says it is the responsibility of the Madhya Pradesh government,” said Nousheen Khan of Children against Dow/Carbide. The organizations presented facts to counter Dow CEO, Jim Fitterling’s claims to non-discrimination by being on the Advisory Board of an LGBT+ organization. They also released a letter from senior LGBT+ activist Peter Tatchell asking Jim Fitterling to own up to the legal responsibilities for the Bhopal Gas Tragedy. Sanjana Singh an LGBT+ survivor of the Bhopal disaster said, “Fighting discrimination against LGBT+ people teaches us to fight against all forms of discrimination in society. It is wrong for Fitterling, who came out as gay in 2014, to make claims of inclusivity while heading a company that starkly discriminates against the Bhopal survivors.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/organisations-demand-better-medical-facilities-for-survivors-of-bhopal-gas-tragedy-amid-covid19-101638516711312.html
03-12-2021||India||News updates from HT: Booster doses against Covid-19 for 40+ ‘may be considered’, says INSACOG and all the latest news||Here are today’s top news, analysis and opinion. Know all about the latest news and other news updates from Hindustan Times.Booster doses against Covid-19 for people above 40 ‘may be considered’: INSACOGAmid the ongoing discussions about the necessity of a booster dose against Covid-19 in the country, the Indian SARS-CoV-2 Genetics Consortium or the INSACOG in its latest weekly bulletin said that a booster vaccine dose for people above 40 years of age “may be considered” in its first such recommendation. Read moreGita Gopinath: From scoring 45% in Class 7 to becoming IMF No 2Gita Gopinath will take over as the first deputy managing director of the International Monetary Fund from January next year replacing Geoffrey Okamoto. Gita Gopinath has served as the IMF's chief economist—the first woman to hold the post in IMF’s history— for three years. Read moreSidhu Moose Wala 'will be youth icon': CM Channi as Punjabi singer joins CongPunjabi singer Sidhu Moose Wala on Friday joined the Congress ahead of the legislative assembly elections. Read moreBob Biswas movie review: Abhishek Bachchan-led Kahaani spin-off is a routine action thrillerDiya Annapurna Ghosh’s Bob Biswas raises an interesting question that it doesn’t answer. Someone who loses their memory and regains it might remember their family, friends, and colleagues. Read more'But Kohli said nothing about it': Laxman shocked at India's injury blows; names Rahane, Ishant, Jadeja's replacementsBatting legend VVS Laxman expressed surprise over the news that the trio of Ajinkya Rahane, Ravindra Jadeja and Ishant Sharma have been injured and will take no part in the second Test between India and New Zealand at Mumbai's Wankhede Stadium. Read moreAfter Raataan Lambiyan, African duo lip syncs to Kusu Kusu. Video wows peopleIf you’re a regular user of the Internet, chances are you have already seen the video of the siblings from Tanzania who mesmerised people with their lip syncing performance to the song Raataan Lambiyan from the movie Shershaah. Read moreAhead of Navy Day, marine commandos display spectacular skills in MumbaiA rehearsal was held ahead of Navy Day celebrations in Mumbai. The beating retreat was performed at the Gateway of India. In a video, Navy commandos & aircraft can be seen displaying skills. Read more||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/news-updates-from-ht-booster-doses-against-covid-19-for-40-may-be-considered-says-insacog-and-all-the-latest-news-101638515665312.html
03-12-2021||India||Sidhu Moose Wala 'will be youth icon': CM Channi as controversial Punjabi singer joins Congress||Punjabi singer Sidhu Moose Wala on Friday joined the Congress ahead of the legislative assembly elections. A widely popular face of Punjab who has been vocal about his support to the farmers' agitation, Mossewala was inducted into the party by Punjab chief minister Charanjit Singh Channi and the party's state chief Navjot Singh Sidhu.Upon his joining, the chief minister said Moose Wala is an "international icon". "I am sure he will make the Congress party proud, I welcome him on behalf of Congress," Channi said, according to news agency ANI."Moose Wala has won the hearts of everyone. He is a son of a farmer and his father is an ex-army officer," Channi said. "I am sure he is going to be a youth icon," he added.It is not clear whether Moose Wala, whose real name is Shubhdeep Singh Sidhu, will contest in the upcoming assembly elections, slated to be held next year. Speaking on the same, Channi said, it is yet to be decided.For now, he will meet the high command of the party, Channi said.After joining the Congress, Moose Wala said that one of the reasons to join the Congress is to raise the voice of Punjabis. "It's my first press conference. Just three years ago, I started singing. Now after four years, I am taking a new step. Mansa is not that much developed, a part of this area raised me, I will raise my voice from here," he said.The singer hails from a small village of Punjab named Moosa in the Mansa district of Punjab. His mother is a village head. He has been subject to criticism by some for promoting violence and gun culture in his songs.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/sidhu-moose-wala-will-be-youth-icon-cm-channi-as-controversial-punjabi-singer-joins-congress-101638514395836.html
03-12-2021||India||Special task forces formed in NCR to check pollution||The Commission for Air Quality Management in National Capital Region and Adjoining Areas late on Thursday ordered the closure of all educational institutes in the region until further orders and the formation of task forces in Delhi and adjoining states to ensure its pollution control directions are followed. It issued separate orders in this regard and revised a set of restrictions to be put in place for pollution control.The commission said the industries operating on non-PNG or other unclean fuels will be allowed to operate only for eight hours from Monday to Friday and remain closed over the weekends. The entry of trucks into Delhi, except those carrying essential items, will also continue to remain banned.The Delhi government earlier on Thursday ordered the closure of educational institutions to protect children from pollution levels in the national capital as per the Supreme Court’s direction. It earlier banned construction activities and disallowed the entry of trucks carrying non-essential items.The Air Quality Index (AQI) shot up to the severely polluted category (429) at 4 pm on Thursday as a thick smog engulfed the city. The rapid deterioration in the air quality prompted the court to set a 24-hour deadline for the Delhi and Union governments to act. At 11 am on Friday, the AQI was 357 in the very poor category.Delhi environment minister Gopal Rai on Thursday said schools remained closed for a long time and the decision to reopen them was made because pollution levels were decreasing. “But...the pollution levels have started rising again. The government is constantly monitoring the situation. We have now decided to close the schools for all classes again from...(Friday).”The court on Thursday expressed dissatisfaction over the pollution control measures. “We feel that nothing is happening and the pollution keeps increasing... only time is being wasted,” Chief Justice of India NV Ramana said as he issued the 24-hour deadline for a “creative” action plan.
03-12-2021||India||INSACOG says booster doses against Covid-19 for people above 40 ‘may be considered’ in view of Omicron||Amid the ongoing discussions about the necessity of a booster dose against Covid-19 in the country, the Indian SARS-CoV-2 Genetics Consortium or the INSACOG in its latest weekly bulletin said that a booster vaccine dose for people above 40 years of age “may be considered” in its first such recommendation.The body made the recommendation in light of the risks posed by the new B.1.1.529 or the Omicron variant of Covid-19 to the country. It also highlighted the vaccination of all those who are unvaccinated yet and are “at-risk.”It said that while the antibodies from the current vaccines are unlikely to be sufficient to neutralise the Omicron variant, the risk of severe disease caused due to the variant is likely to be reduced.Also read | Omicron cases in India: Share plan on booster Covid vaccine dose, Oppn asks govt“Vaccination of all remaining unvaccinated at-risk people and consideration of a booster dose for those 40 years of age and over, first targeting the most high-risk / high-exposure may be considered, since low levels of neutralising antibodies from current vaccines are unlikely to be sufficient to neutralise Omicron, although risk of severe disease is still likely to be reduced,” the INSACOG said in the bulletin.The body said that genomic surveillance would be critical for the early detection of the variant and would help in enabling the necessary public health measures.“Genomic surveillance will be critical for early detection of the presence of this variant, to enable necessary public health measures. Monitoring travel to and from the known affected areas, and contact tracing of COVID-19 cases with an epidemiological link to the affected areas has been implemented along with increased testing,” INSACOG said.The National Technical Advisory Group on Immunisation (NTAGI), the advisory group to the government on vaccines, had said in late November that a policy on the booster and additional doses of the vaccine could be expected in two weeks.Earlier on Thursday, two confirmed cases of the Omicron variant were detected in Karnataka. While the patients have not displayed any severe symptoms for the disease, all primary and secondary contacts have been identified and tested for the disease, Union health ministry’s joint secretary Lav Agarwal said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/booster-doses-against-covid-19-for-people-above-40-may-be-considered-insacog-101638513385825.html
03-12-2021||India||'You want to ban industries in Pakistan': CJI after UP blames Pak for pollution||The Uttar Pradesh government on Friday told the Supreme Court that UP industries have no role in the rising pollution in the NCR and polluted air from Pakistan deteriorates the air quality of the Capital. 'So you want to ban industries in Pakistan?' Chief Justice of India NV Ramana said in reply.Senior advocate Ranjit Kumar appearing for the UP government told the Apex Court that Delhi air quality is affected by the polluting air coming from Pakistan. He said the eight-hour operation window is affecting the sugarcane and milk industries in Uttar Pradesh. The CJI-led bench asked the UP counsel to go to teh Commission with the grievance and let them decide on the issue.The Commission for Air Quality Management has constituted an enforcement task force to look into the pollution situation in the NCR, a day after the Supreme Court bench gave a 24-hour deadline for some concrete actions to combat the rising levels of pollution.After hearing the steps that have been taken in the last 24 hours, the court allowed the Delhi government to go ahead with the construction work of hospitals.The commission informed the Supreme Court that a five-member enforcement task force has been set up to contain air pollution in Delhi and NCR. Around 40 such squads would monitor the implementation of measures suggested by it to deal with pollution, the panel said. Seventeen such flying squads have been constituted to ensure the implementation of various measures mandated by the court and the panel. The number would be raised to 40 within 24 hours, the affidavit said.The Supreme Court was hearing a plea filed by environmental activist Aditya Dubey and law student Aman Banka, who sought directions to provide stubble-removing machines to small and marginal farmers for free.(With agency inputs)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/you-want-to-ban-industries-in-pakistan-cji-as-up-blames-pak-for-pollution-101638512828966.html
03-12-2021||India||CAG report on Bihar finances raises red flags||The Comptroller and Auditor General of India (CAG) flagged the Bihar government over pendency of utilization certificates (UCs) against grants given to different departments to the tune of ₹79,690 crore and non-adjustment of abstract contingent bills (AC) bills to the tune of ₹9155 crore till March 2020, in its latest state finances audit report for the year ending March 31st, 2020. The CAG’s state finances report was laid in the state assembly by deputy chief minister cum finance minister Tarkishore Prasad. In the report, the audit body also made a strong observation about the finances of the state highlighting that the state witnessed a decrease of ₹7561 crore (5.74%) in revenue receipts during the year 2019-20 as compared to the previous year, primarily due to decrease in tax transfers from the government of India and own no tax revenue. The CAG, which audits financial transactions of the state government, also observed that the state has witnessed revenue deficit in 2019-20, a first since 2008-09 because the revenue expenditure (money spent in meeting the current level of services and payment and past obligation) is higher than revenue receipts. “The buoyancy ratio of revenue expenditure with revenue receipts as well GSDP is lowest in the last five years which is not a good sign of the state finances,” the report observed. The CAG also pulled the state government for higher savings and non-surrender of funds while highlighting that there were 158 personal deposit accounts (PD) accounts with a closing balance of ₹3312 as of March 2020. The audit body has also said that there were 253 PL (personal ledger) accounts amounting to ₹26,997 crore, including eight new PL accounts existing in 66 treasuries as of March 31, 2021. “There were 70 PL accounts in which discrepancies were found between the closing balance of 2018-19 and opening balance of 2019-20. Out of these, 53 were reconciled as of 22.12.2020. Action is underway in AG office to remove discrepancies in other PL accounts,” the report said, adding that non-reconciliation of balances of PL accounts periodically and not transferring the unspent balances lying in PL accounts to the consolidated fund before the closure of the financial year entails the risk of misuse of public funds, fraud and misappropriation. On the pendency of UCs, the CAG report has made strong observations stating that “though such instances of UCs feature in the reports of C&AG regularly, there has been no improvement in the situation. In many cases, the same recipients continue to receive grants from the same departments, even while the UCs for earlier grants are pending. High pendency of UCs is fraught with the risk of misappropriation of funds and fraud”. The major outstanding UCs as of March 2020 were found in the departments like the panchayati raj ( ₹16,915 crore), education department ( ₹15,158 crore), social welfare department ( ₹12613 crore) and rural development department( ₹8808 crore). The CAG has also taken exception to the high pendency of non-reconciliation of abstract contingent bills with detailed contingent bills (withdrawals from treasury adjusted with vouchers). The report has said 1383 AC bills amounting to ₹644 crore (15.22 percent of the total drawn AC bills in 2019-20) were drawn in March 2020 alone, indicating how the withdrawals were primarily to exhaust budget provisions and reveal inadequate budgetary control. The central audit watchdog has indicted the state government for the high pendency of UCs and non-reconciliation of AC/DC bills in the past also.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/cag-report-on-bihar-finances-raises-red-flags-101638512449094.html
03-12-2021||India||Solar eclipse 2021 or surya grahan: How to watch, timings, visibility in India||Some people in the southern hemisphere will have a chance to witness a total or partial solar eclipse on Saturday, December 4, when the moon moves between the Sun and Earth for one last time this year. The Moon will fully or partially block the Sun’s light in the southern hemisphere, casting a shadow in some areas on Earth. Antarctica will be the only place on Earth to experience a full solar eclipse as the Sun, Moon, and our planet will fall in a direct line.In some places where the three celestial bodies won’t be exactly lined up, viewers will experience a partial solar eclipse. People living in Saint Helena, Namibia, Lesotho, South Africa, South Georgia and Sandwich Islands, Crozet Islands, Falkland Islands, Chile, New Zealand, and Australia will see a partial solar eclipse.Many viewers will need to get a clear view of the horizon to see the solar eclipse since, at several locations, it will occur before, during, and after sunrise or sunset.How to experience the solar eclipse from countries where it won’t be visible?People in India and all other countries in the northern hemisphere can see the solar eclipse via a live webcam. Weather permitting, Nasa will live stream a view of the total solar eclipse from Union Glacier, Antarctica on YouTube and on nasa.gov/live. The streaming will start at 1:30am EST (12pm IST) and the stream ends at 3:37 am (2.07pm IST).
03-12-2021||India||SC gives go-ahead to Delhi govt to resume construction work of hospitals||The Supreme Court on Friday gave a go-ahead to the Delhi government to resume the construction work of hospitals after the Delhi government filed an affidavit seeking the same. The construction activities in Delhi are shut after air quality plunged to alarming levels. They were resumed by the Delhi government on November 22 in view of the improved air quality, but the top court revived the ban on November 24 in Delhi and the National Capital Region (NCR).In the affidavit, filed earlier in the day, the Aam Aadmi Party-led government informed the top court that it had started to revamp the hospitals and the construction of 7 new hospitals is underway to prepare for the third wave of the coronavirus. "But due to the construction ban, work has stopped," it stated as it asked the top court to exempt construction work at hospitals from the ban."Work is being carried out in 19 government hospitals to provide better health infrastructure in the national capital for the benefit of patients," the Delhi government told the court in the affidavit.The affidavit was filed as the Apex court is hearing a plea seeking emergency steps to control the worsening air quality situation in the national capital.The top court also expressed satisfaction over fresh steps by the Commission for Air Quality Management (CAQM). The committee has constituted an enforcement task force to monitor compliance with the anti-pollution measures. Earlier in the day, the commission also told the court that it has already constituted 17 flying squads to take punitive measures against violators and will increase the number to 40 in the next 24 hours.On Thursday, the court pulled up the Delhi government over the lack of concrete steps to curb pollution. Hearing the case, the court also asked why it reopened the schools while it had asked the elders to work from home. On Friday, however, the court said it did not ask the government to shut schools; it only sought to know the reason why the government resumed physical classes, it said. As of now, physical classes have been suspended in Delhi starting from Friday.The matter will now again heard by the court on December 10.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/sc-gives-go-ahead-to-delhi-govt-to-resume-construction-work-of-hospitals-101638510261595.html
03-12-2021||India||Omicron: 'Covid variants will keep coming, but..,' says doctor||A day after India confirmed the first cases of the Omicron variant of the coronavirus, executive director of Fortis hospital in Delhi, Ashok Seth on Friday said that such "mutations will keep coming". He also stressed that the people should not panic and instead remain cautious about the health protocols, mandated by the ministry of health. "Coronavirus variants will keep coming. We don't need to panic but remain cautious and proactive. We can protect ourselves from any variant if we're fully vaccinated and observe Covid appropriate behaviour," said Dr Seth, according to news agency ANI.The central government on Thursday informed that two people have tested positive for the Omicron variant, first detected in South Africa, in Karnataka. This includes a 66-year-old South African male and a 46-year-old doctor.As the country increased the Covid testing at airports under the containing measures, more international travellers continued to test positive for Covid-19.Nine international travellers, including one from South Africa, who arrived at Mumbai International Airport between November 10 and December 2 tested positive for Covid19, Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation informed. Their samples have been sent for genome sequencing.A passenger from Singapore was also found positive of the Covid-19 at the Tiruchirappalli International Airport. The person has been admitted to a private hospital, while the administration has sent the samples for genome sequencing to Chennai and Bengaluru.Classified as a 'variant of concern', Omicron was first reported from South Africa on November 25. In view of the Omicron, dozens of countries have imposed travel restrictions on the southern African nations since the mutation was discovered.India has also added several countries to the list from where travellers would need to follow additional measures on arrival in the country, including post-arrival testing for infection.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/omicron-more-covid-variants-will-keep-coming-but-says-doctor-101638509854191.html
03-12-2021||India||Goa lawmaker resigns amid resistance within BJP over his expected induction||Goa Forward Party (GFP) lawmaker Jayesh Salgaocar resigned from the state assembly late on Thursday and said he will join the ruling Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) a day later amid resistance within the party over the expected induction.The opposition to Salgaocar’s entry forced state BJP chief Sadanand Shet Tanavade to dissolve a local block unit as its members gathered at the party headquarters and raised slogans against the leadership. The members accused the leadership of “using and throwing” the hardworking functionaries and betraying the party principles.Karan Govekar, a BJP functionary, told the media outside the headquarters that they were promised that the party’s workers would be respected and one among them would be given the ticket from Saligaor, which Salgaocar represented in the assembly. “It did not matter who. We want the party worker to be respected. Instead, they have now betrayed us, and without taking us into confidence, they have brought in a candidate who has called the BJP a dirty party,”Tanavade said the decision to induct Salgaocar into the BJP was taken as surveys showed the party would become stronger with his entry. “No decision has been taken to give him a ticket. We have welcomed him into the party to strengthen it,” Tanavade said.Salgaocar, who said he will join the BJP on Friday after submitting his resignation, skipped the meeting of GFP chief Vijai Sardesai and legislator Vinoda Paliencar with Congress leader Rahul Gandhi in New Delhi on Tuesday. Sardesai announced plans to ally with Congress for the state assembly elections early next year after the meeting.Salgaocar earlier went incommunicado. Sardesai said he was unable to contact him.On Thursday, GFP issued a notice to Salgaocar asking him to respond to his “constant anti-party activities.” It cited his “behaviour and conduct” and said it clearly indicates his intent is to work with the BJP “for personal gains thereby compromising the values and policies of the party”. He was given 24 hours to respond.Salgaocar is the second lawmaker to resign from the assembly since Congress’s Luizinho Faleiro quit to defect to the Trinamool Congress in September.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/goa-lawmaker-resigns-amid-resistance-within-bjp-over-his-expected-induction-101638509748631.html
03-12-2021||India||Supreme Court clarifies it never asked Delhi government to shut schools||A day after the Delhi government suspended physical classes in the schools of the capital owing to the increasing levels of pollution, the Supreme Court on Friday clarified that it did not ask the government to shut schools. It only asked the reasons behind the change in the stance of the government, the Chief Justice of India-led bench said as it continued hearing the case. The Apex Court on Thursday gave the Delhi government a 24-hour deadline to place some concrete steps against pollution. As the government listed the decisions it took, including that of the suspension of physical classes, the Supreme Court gave go-ahead to the Delhi government for the construction works of hospitals.5-member task force to monitor compliance amid ‘very poor’ air quality in DelhiThe bench on Thursday questioned the government why it allowed the office-going population to work from home while it resumed physical classes for school children, exposing them to the threats of hazardous pollution. As the Delhi government informed the court on Thursday that coming to school is voluntary and online classes are also going on, the court observed that if there is an option, people will send their kids to schools. Following the rap of the Supreme Court, Delhi environment minister Gopal Rai announced the suspension of physical classes starting from Friday for an indefinite period, until further notice. The minister also said that physical classes resumed from November 29 based on the pollution condition of the Capital at that time. On Friday, advocate Abhishek Singhvi, appearing for the Delhi government, submitted to the court that schools have been closed. He also added that physical classes were on only for 17 days in November.The CJI said some sections of media have projected the Supreme Court as villains. "We’ve observed, don’t know whether it's intentional or not, Some sections of media try to project we are villains and we want the closure of schools. You had said we were closing schools & introducing work from home. And see today newspapers!" the CJI said.Adding to CJI's comment, Singhvi said one newspaper reported the hearing as if it took place in administrative combat.The Supreme Court was told the Commission for Air Quality Management has constituted an enforcement task force to monitor compliance with the pollution directions. The commission informed the court that it has already constituted 17 flying squads to take punitive action against violators and will increase the number to 40 in the next 24 hours.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/supreme-court-clarifies-it-never-asked-delhi-government-to-shut-schools-101638508323398.html
03-12-2021||India||Omicron: 9 international travellers in Mumbai test Covid positive; 1 from South Africa||Amid a growing omicron scare, nine international travellers, including one from South Africa, who arrived at Mumbai International Airport between November 10 and December 2 have tested positive for Covid-19, the Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) said on Friday. Samples of all nine travellers have been sent for genome sequencing for further investigation regarding the variant, BMC added.This comes a day after India detected its first Omicron cases when the samples of two Covid-19 positive fliers from South Africa to Bengaluru came out positive for the new worrisome variant. A new study published on Thursday by scientists in South Africa suggested that Omicron is three times more likely to cause reinfection in a person compared to Delta or Beta strains. The Union government, however, has asked citizens not to panic but follow Covid-appropriate behaviour and get vaccinated without delay.The Centre has already imposed various restrictions for stringent surveillance at the airports and tightened testing measures.Meanwhile, the Tamil Nadu government dismissed media reports claiming Omicron cases being detected in the state. “The passenger from Singapore arrived at Tiruchirappally at 3.30 AM (on Friday). He tested positive and has been shifted to the local medical college where he has been quarantined. His sample will undergo genome sequencing and we have a facility here… it will also be sent to a lab in Bengaluru and only after that result would we come to know if he is infected with Omicron," state health minister Ma Subramanian, told reporters in Chennai.India registered 9,216 new COVID-19 infections on Friday. Deaths rose by 391 to a total of 470,115, while the active cases stand at 99,976, the Union health ministry data showed.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/omicron-9-international-travellers-in-mumbai-test-covid-positive-1-from-south-africa-101638507234905.html
03-12-2021||India||Flats allotted to migrant workers, urban poor in 3 states under Centre’s scheme||At least 4,444 government-funded flats have been allotted to migrant workers and urban poor in three states under the Centre’s Affordable Rental Housing Complexes (ARHCs) scheme, the government has told Parliament.The scheme was launched last year as part of the Covid-19 relief package and around 90,000 government-funded flats have been identified under ARHCs across the country, according to the housing and urban affairs ministry.In a written reply to a question on Thursday, housing and urban affairs minister Hardeep Singh Puri told Lok Sabha the flats have been provided in Ahmedabad and Surat (Gujarat), Chittorgarh (Rajasthan) and Chandigarh. He added the ministry has approved the construction of 78,885 dwelling units by public and private agencies across the country.Existing vacant houses constructed under the Jawaharlal Nehru National Urban Renewal Mission (JNNURM) and Rajiv Awas Yojana have been included in the ARHCs scheme. The scheme, a part of Pradhan Mantri Awas Yojana- Urban, will end in March 2022. It is being implemented either by giving existing vacant government-funded flats on rent to migrant workers or allowing private and public entities to construct flats on their land and giving them on rent.“Public/Private Entities may use ARHCs to provide accommodations to their own workers/labourers as well as serve the requirements for neighbouring entities. Further, guidelines permit collaboration with other entities/organisations or get migrant labourers/urban poor through aggregators by deducting the rent directly from the salary/fee/any kind of remuneration, etc of tenants,” Puri told the Lok Sabha.The scheme was launched last year after the Covid-19 pandemic led to large scale reverse migration of workers, who mostly live in the slums clusters or informal settlements in cities. Migrant workers, mostly involved in informal sectors, were at the receiving end because of the strict restrictions due to the Covid-19 lockdown, especially on public transport.The scheme was aimed to provide planned housing at affordable rates to these workers near their workplaces.State governments have planned in-situ redevelopment of slum clusters. Those new to a city are not eligible for permanent housing and therefore end up living on rent in slum clusters. ARCHs seeks to provide affordable rental housing to promote inclusive urban development and prevent the growth of slums.For the implementation of the scheme of providing existing government-funded housing on rent, several city authorities have invited bids to hire a private concessionaire to refurbish flats and operate them for 25 years. The initial rent will be fixed by local authorities. Chandigarh Housing Board has implemented the scheme and given 2,195 flats on rent, said an official. In Surat, 393 flats have been allotted to migrant workers under the scheme for which a private firm has been roped in. In Chittorgarh and Ahmedabad, 480 and 1,376 flats have been allotted.Puri said the ARHCs aim to provide rental accommodation to migrant labourers/urban poor only and there is no provision for purchasing the dwelling unit by beneficiaries.National Real Estate Development Council director-general Rajesh Goel called it is a great scheme that will benefit the migrant workers. He added with the introduction of the Model Tenancy Act and the improving sentiments in the real estate sector, they see a growing interest from the promoters in the private sector. “But developers do have a little bit of apprehension due to the lower returns from rentals while the cost of land and maintaining the complexes for 25 years is substantial. There are legal concerns about rent recovery or people not vacating the flats, though we are certain the Modal Tenancy Act, once implemented in all the states, will address this problem thereby generating much larger participation.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/flats-allotted-to-migrant-workers-urban-poor-in-3-states-under-centre-s-scheme-101638507467651.html
03-12-2021||India||India, Sri Lanka finalise four-point package for economic cooperation||India and Sri Lanka have framed a four-point package, including a line of credit to cover the import of food and medicines and a currency swap arrangement, to deepen economic cooperation and to help the island nation cope with economic problems.The package was finalised during two meetings that visiting Sri Lankan finance minister Basil Rajapaksa had with his Indian counterpart Nirmala Sitharaman and external affairs minister S Jaishankar on Wednesday and Thursday. This was Rajapaksa’s first overseas visit since he assumed office in July. The two sides discussed four pillars for short and medium-term cooperation, according to a statement issued by the Sri Lankan high commission at the conclusion of Rajapaksa’s visit on Thursday. They include a food and health security package on an urgent basis that envisages the extension of a line of credit by India to cover the import of food, medicines and other essential items by Sri Lanka, an energy security package that will include a line of credit to cover the import of fuel from India, and the early modernisation of Trincomalee Tank Farm. The package also includes an offer of a currency swap to help Sri Lanka address the current balance of payment issues, and facilitating Indian investments in different sectors in Sri Lanka to contribute to growth and expand employment, the statement said.Also Read: HTLS 2021 Border tension reflects on ties: EAM on ChinaThe two sides further agreed that modalities to realise this package would be “finalised early, within a mutually agreed timeline”, the statement said. Rajapaksa and Sitharaman and Jaishankar “agreed to open direct lines of communication” and to be in direct and regular contact with each other to coordinate on this initiative. People familiar with developments said on condition of anonymity that it was significant that both Sitharaman and Jaishankar participated in the two rounds of discussions with Rajapaksa. They said this reflected the importance India attaches to the relationship with Sri Lanka. The people said Sri Lanka’s request for a $1 billion bilateral currency swap, first made in 2020, did not figure in the latest discussions. The currency swap offered to Sri Lanka is expected to be made under the South Asian Association for Regional Cooperation (Saarc) facility and would be worth $400 million. Ties between New Delhi and Colombo were hit earlier this year when Sri Lanka scrapped a 2019 deal with India and Japan to operate the East Container Terminal at the Colombo port, angering both countries. In October, state-owned Sri Lanka Ports Authority (SLPA) inked a deal with India’s Adani Group to develop and run the Colombo port’s West Container Terminal. Adani Group and its local partner John Keells Holdings will jointly have an 85% stake in the West Container Terminal, giving India a much-needed strategic presence at the Colombo port, where almost 70% of operations involve shipments bound for India.Rajapaksa, who visited India at the invitation of Sitharaman, also had bilateral discussions with Jaishankar. These discussions focused on a range of issues of mutual importance, with particular attention on economic cooperation. Rajapaksa also met petroleum minister Hardeep Singh Puri and National Security Adviser Ajit Doval.In these meetings, Rajapaksa thanked India for the support it has extended Sri Lanka over the years in many spheres, the statement said. Rajapaksa briefed the Indian side on the economic situation in Sri Lanka and his government’s approach to addressing post-Covid challenges. The Indian ministers expressed New Delhi’s solidarity with Colombo and reiterated that India has always stood by Sri Lanka and, in the current situation, would be guided by its “Neighbourhood First” policy, according to the statement.
03-12-2021||India||India reports 9,216 infections in 24 hours; active caseload below 1 lakh||The Covid-19 tally in India was increased by 9,216 infections as the country battled the fresh threat of the Omicron variant of the coronavirus. The overall tally now stands at 34,615,757 including 470,115 deaths due to the viral disease, according to the numbers updated at the Union ministry of health and family welfare's website. Said to be more contagious than its previous mutations, Omicron, the new coronavirus variant, has reached India with two men in Karnataka testing positive for the Omicron variant, making them the country's first case of the new variant of concern.The number of active cases saw a slight rise but remained below the 1-lakh mark, the health ministry data showed. It currently stands at 99,976 and accounts for less than 1% of total cases (0.29%), the lowest since March 2020, according to the daily health bulletin.The recovery rate is currently at 98.35% with a total number of recoveries climbing to 34,045,666. The daily positivity rate (0.80%) has been less than 2% for the last 60 days, while the weekly positivity rate (0.84%) is less than 1% for the last 19 days.The country has conducted 64.46 crores total tests so far. Meanwhile, as many as 125.75 crore vaccine doses have been administered so far under nationwide vaccination drive in the country.Speaking on the Omicron variant, Dr Ashok Seth, executive director of Fortis Escorts Heart Institute in Delhi, on Friday advised people to not panic and said the "variants will keep coming." "We don't need to panic but remain cautious and proactive. We can protect ourselves from any variant if we're fully vaccinated and observe Covid appropriate behaviour," the senior doctor also said.The Omicron variant was first reported to the World Health Organisation (WHO) from South Africa on November 25. As per the WHO, the first known confirmed B.1.1.529 infection was from a specimen collected on November 9 this year. As of Friday, it has been confirmed in 23 countries including India, the United States and the United Kingdom.Dozens of countries have imposed travel restrictions on the southern African nations since the mutation was detected in the region.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/india-reports-9-216-infections-in-24-hours-active-caseload-below-1-lakh-101638506063833.html
03-12-2021||India||Centre to launch scheme for upliftment of SC students||The Centre is set to launch the Residential Education for Students in High Schools in Targeted Areas (SRESHTA) scheme on Monday for the upliftment and development of scheduled castes (SC) students.The announcement was made by Social Justice and Empowerment Minister Virendra Kumar on Thursday. “The scheme will focus on the socio-economics upliftment and overall development of the Scheduled Caste students by providing quality residential education to meritorious Scheduled Caste students in reputed private schools, having residential facility,” he said. “This will enable bright SC students to have a better future by getting a high-quality education, aid in controlling dropout rates of SC students from class 9th to 12th. Besides, the continuous support to the existing institutions being run by the voluntary organizations for the target ground. In the next 5 years, the ministry has decided to extend support to 24800 meritorious SC students, involving Rs. 300 crores approx., for providing them with quality residential education from class 9 to 12 in reputed private residential schools in aspirational districts identified by the NITI Aayog,” he said.The minister also announced that the government will celebrate Mahaparinirvan Divas in remembrance of Dr BR Ambedkar on Monday as part of its ongoing ‘Azadi Ka Amrit Mahotsav’ celebrations to mark 75 years of India’s independence.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/centre-to-launch-scheme-for-upliftment-of-sc-students-101638505908355.html
03-12-2021||India||International day of persons with disabilities: UN calls for inclusion in post-Covid times, dismantling barriers||As the world marked the international day of persons with disabilities, the United Nations called for an enhanced push towards a more inclusive society and efforts to reduce the barriers faced by people with disabilities.The day is celebrated every year on December 3 to mark the challenges, barriers and opportunities of those with disabilities and also as an occasion to direct the efforts of the global community towards a more inclusive society. “This year, we are celebrating the challenges, barriers and opportunities for people who live with disabilities, in the context of a global pandemic,” the UN said. The global body’s proclamation to mark the day was first declared in 1992.“This year, International Day of People with Disabilities should be used to recognise that people who live with disabilities are among the most affected populations amid the COVID pandemic,” the UN also said.Also read | World Aids Day 2021: UN calls for ending inequalities to fight epidemicFurther, it also called for domestic and international public health officials, political representatives, advocates, supporters and citizens to learn from the experiences of those with disabilities during the Covid-19 pandemic and “push for more meaningful investments into the socioeconomic building blocks which will reduce the barriers faced by people with disabilities in every community on earth.”The World Health Organization (WHO) said that over a billion people experience disability across the world and warned that the figure is only expected to rise. “ Despite this, few countries have adequate mechanisms in place to respond fully to the health priorities and requirements of persons with disabilities,” the global health body said.Calling disability a “global public health issue”, the WHO also said that one in seven people worldwide is affected by it and that every person is likely to experience it at some point in their life.In his message on the day, secretary-general Antonio Guterres said, “A disability-inclusive pandemic response and recovery should be guided by persons with disabilities themselves, forge partnerships, tackle injustice and discrimination, expand access to technology and strengthen institutions to create a more inclusive, accessible, and sustainable post-Covid-19 world.”Meanwhile, President Ram Nath Kovind will confer the annual National Awards on individuals, institutions, organizations and state/district, etc., for their outstanding achievements and work towards the empowerment of Persons with Disabilities, the ministry of social justice and empowerment said, in an event organised by the ministry.“On International Day of Persons with Disabilities, let us commit to destigmatizing disabilities and ensure that our Divyang brothers and sisters get equal opportunities so that they can lead a dignified, safe and productive life,” Vice President Venkaiah Naidu tweeted.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/international-day-of-persons-with-disabilities-un-calls-for-inclusion-in-post-covid-times-dismantling-barriers-101638504896618.html
03-12-2021||India||CAQM constitutes 5-member task force to monitor compliance amid ‘very poor’ air quality in Delhi-NCR||Commission for Air Quality Management (CAQM) in Delhi-NCR has constituted an enforcement task force to monitor compliance with the direction issued in the wake of worsening air quality in the region, the Supreme Court was told. In an affidavit, the commission informed the apex court that the 5-member task force has been constituted by exercising its statutory power.The commission said it has already constituted 17 flying squads to take punitive measures against violators and will increase the number to 40 in the next 24 hours.The affidavit was filed after the top court pulled up both the Centre and the Delhi government over the air quality in the national capital region. The court gave the Centre and the CAQM a 24-hour deadline to come up with an urgent mechanism to control air pollution in Delhi-NCR, failing which, the court said, it may set up a task force itself.“We expect a serious, serious action or we will pass orders. We give you 24 hours to come out with a plan of action...If you cannot, we will have to pass some directions tomorrow,” the bench told solicitor general Tushar Mehta.‘Elders have work from home and children have to go to school’: CJI pulls up Delhi govtLast month, CAQM announced a slew of measures to control the air pollution in Delhi-NCR, including a ban on construction and demolition activities. But the air quality in the national capital has remained in the 'very poor' category for a while now. On Friday, the Air Quality Index (AQI) of Delhi stood at 385, according to the System of Air Quality and Weather Forecasting And Research (SAFAR).CAQM was formed earlier this year for better coordination, research, identification, and resolution of problems related to air quality in the Delhi-NCR and adjoining areas where any source of pollution may cause an adverse impact on air quality in the national capital region. The commission coordinates actions taken by concerned governments and plans and executes plans to prevent and control air pollution in the NCR.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/caqm-constitutes-5-member-task-force-to-monitor-compliance-amid-very-poor-air-quality-in-delhincr-101638502595335.html
03-12-2021||NA||Parliament Winter Session Highlights: ‘Why no decency to give farmers their due,’ Rahul Gandhi asks Centre||The government is set to table the Central Vigilance Commission (Amendment) Bill, 2021, the Delhi Special Police Establishment (Amendment) Bill, 2021 and the National Institute of Pharmaceutical Education and Research (Amendment) Bill, 2021 in Lok Sabha on Friday. While the opposition continued its protest near Mahatma Gandhi statue in Parliament against the suspension of 12 MPs, the BJP also staged its own protests at the site.Earlier in the day, Congress MP Manickam Tagore moved an adjournment motion in Lok Sabha to discuss the Lakhimpur Kheri incident and the removal of Union minister of state for home affairs Ajay Kumar Mishra. Amid continued protests by the opposition over the suspension of 12 lawmakers, the Union government on Thursday passed the Dam Safety Bill, 2019, in Rajya Sabha.Several opposition parties criticised the Centre for encroaching upon states' rights regarding the issue, while Union Jal Shakti minister Gajendra Singh Shekawat rejected those claims.Meanwhile, in Lok Sabha, a marathon debate on Covid-19 pandemic was held in which a wide range of topics, including the Omicron variant, booster doses, third wave of the disease and vaccination for all eligible population, was discussed.As many as 74 members took part in the debate while other members laid a copy of their speeches on the table of the house.Follow all the updates here:Lok Sabha adjourned till MondayLok Sabha has been adjourned till Monday, 6th December.18 out of 16,000 passengers on 58 flights tested positive for Covid-19: Health ministerUnion health minister Mansukh Mandaviya on Friday informed Parliament that among 16,000 passengers from 'at-risk' countries arriving on 58 flights who have been tested for Covid-19 with the RT-PCR method, only 18 people have tested positive so far. The minister's statement comes amid growing fears of Omicron as India reported two cases of the new variant.Rajya Sabha adjourned till MondayRajya Sabha has been adjourned till Monday, 6th December.‘Why no decency to give farmers their due?’: Rahul Gandhi asks Centre“We have 403 people whom the government of Punjab compensated ₹5 lakh each and whom they 152 gave jobs to. We also have a list of 100 names from other states and a 3rd list, which is public information, of names that can easily be verified. But the government says that such a list does not exist,” says Rahul Gandhi.“The prime minister himself said that he has made a mistake. He apologised to the nation. As a result of that mistake, 700 people have died. Now you are lying about their names. Why don't you have the decency to give them what is their due?” he questions.Rahul Gandhi hold press briefing to address farmers' crisis“A question was asked in Parliament whether Govt proposes to provide financial assistance to the kins of farmers who died during the farmers' agitation. Ministry answers that the Ministry of Agriculture has no record in the matter and hence the question doesn't arise,” says Congress leader Rahul Gandhi In a press statement.'Modi government works with willpower, not power’: Mandaviya"Under Modi government, work is going on to strengthen the weak health infrastructure. Without blaming the pervious governments that ignored health infrastructure, the government has worked for results. In the last 2 years, decisions under leadership of PM Modi show that this government works with willpower and not power," said Mandaviya in Lok Sabha.India's Covid-19 cases, deaths among lowest in world: Mandaviya in Lok Sabha“3.46 crore corona cases have been reported in India and 4.6 lakh people died - this is 1.36% of the total cases. 25,000 cases and 340 deaths per million population were reported in India - this is one of the lowest in the world,” said Union Health Minister Mansukh Mandaviya in Lok Sabha.Health minister Mandaviya slams Opposition over oxygen shortage debate in Lok SabhaUnion Health Minister Mansukh Mandaviya, in Lok Sabha, asked the opposition parties to stop playing politics over oxygen shortage.Addressing the Lok Sabha during the Question Hour, he said the Union government made "all possible efforts" to ensure the availability of oxygen and increased its production following a rise in demand during the second wave of the pandemic."Sadly, even in such a situation, many people did not refrain from playing politics... I appeal, take note of our honest efforts. This is not a subject of politics," he said in reply to a question on the issue raised by Congress MP Suresh Dhanorkar.Some states showed increased oxygen demand in courts during Covid second wave: Health minsiter The politics around Oxygen started with the second wave of COVID-19 and some states went to courts and showed increased demand for oxygen in their respective state to get favourable orders, said Minister of Health and Family Welfare Mansukh Mandaviya in Lok Sabha on Friday.Only Punjab reported 4 'suspected' deaths due to oxygen shortage: Health ministerWe had written to all states asking for data on it…19 States responded. Only Punjab reported four 'suspected' deaths due to oxygen shortage, syas Union Health Minister Dr Mandaviya in Lok Sabha on the question of 'deaths due to oxygen shortage.'WATCH | BJP MPs, opposition protest in Parliament #WATCH | Delhi: BJP Rajya Sabha MPs protest against the protesting Opposition over the suspension of 12 Rajya Sabha MPs for the winter Parliament, near the Gandhi statue pic.twitter.com/zngQpt1gujOpposition, BJP protest near Gandhi statue in ParliamentWhile the Opposition continued its protests against the government over the suspension of 12 MPs near the Gandhi statue, the BJP also staged protests at the same site, to condemn the opposition for their “undemocratic” actions inside the house. “We are here to highlight the dichotomy and the duplicity of the opposition parties,” said BJP MP GVL Narasimha Rao.Govt to table National Institute of Pharmaceutical Education and Research (Amendment) Bill, 2021 in Lok SabhaThe government is set to introduce the Central Vigilance Commission (Amendment) Bill, 2021 and the Delhi Special Police Establishment (Amendment) Bill, 2021. Also, Union health minister Mansukh Mandaviya is set to table the National Institute of Pharmaceutical Education and Research (Amendment) Bill, 2021 in Lok Sabha today. Cong's Manickam Tagore moves adjournment motion in LS to discuss Lakhimpur KheriCongress MP Manickam Tagore has moved an adjournment motion in Lok Sabha "to discuss the killing of innocent farmers through rash driving by the son of MoS Home in Lakhimpur Kheri district, to direct the govt to ensure the culprit punished, & ask the PM to dismiss the MoS Home." pic.twitter.com/AkxYKo1HiRCongress MP Manickam Tagore has moved an adjournment motion in Lok Sabha demanding a discuss into the Lakhimpur Kheri violence and the dismissal of Union minister of State for home affairs Ajay Kumar Mishra, reports ANI.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/parliament-winter-session-2021-live-updates-december-3-101638499370562.html
03-12-2021||India||Central Vista Avenue work 60% complete||The Union government on Thursday told the Parliament that the physical progress of the redevelopment of Central Vista Avenue and the new Parliament building, part of the Central vista redevelopment project, stands at 60% and 35% complete respectively.The Avenue, where preparations for the Republic Day parade have started, will be completed within this month while the new Parliament is expected to be ready by October 2022.In a written response to a question by Congress MP Manish Tewari, minister of state housing and urban affairs Kaushal Kishore said that so far four projects (new Parliament building, redevelopment of Central Vista Avenue, construction of three out of the 10 Common Central Secretariat buildings and vice-president’s residence) are being implemented.“ ₹1,289 crore has been allocated for the works of Development/Re-development of Central Vista in the ongoing FY 2021-22,” the minister informed the Lok Sabha.Tewari asked whether “work under the Central Vista Redevelopment Master plan with an estimated cost of around 20,000 crore rupees resumed in spite of the pandemic while the MPLADS scheme, the funds through which could be used for the betterment of Indian citizens especially during the pandemic”.“There is no link between the works of Central Vista Development/Re-development with the MPLADS scheme. Separately, the Union Cabinet, in its meeting held on November 10, 2021, has restored MPLAD Scheme (MPLADS) for the remaining part of the Financial Year 2021-22 and its continuation from FY 2022-23 to FY 2025-26 with an outlay of ₹17,417 crore,” the minister said.The central government said the ongoing works at the Central Vista have provided direct livelihood opportunities to “more than 10,000 skilled, semi-skilled and unskilled workers on-site and off-site and generated more than 24.12 lakh man-days of employment”.The construction of the new Parliament building started earlier this year. The Central Public Works Department (CPWD) recently invited pre-qualification bids for the construction and maintenance of the executive enclave, which will include the Prime Minister’s Office, India House, Cabinet Secretariat and National Security Council Secretariat, as part of the Central Vista redevelopment project. The ₹1,171 crore project will be completed within 24 months from the date of handing over of the site, as per the bid document.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/central-vista-avenue-work-60-complete-101638503509198.html
03-12-2021||India||Cyclone Jawad likely to hit Andhra, Odisha coastline on Saturday||Cyclone Jawad is likely to form over the central Bay of Bengal on Friday and reach the north Andhra Pradesh and south Odisha coasts on Saturday morning. It is likely to cause very heavy rain in parts of Odisha, Andhra Pradesh, and Gangetic West Bengal and damage standing crops, especially paddy, and inundate low lying areas, the India Meteorological Department (IMD) has warned.Cyclone Jawad may be severe briefly on Saturday when it is near the coast (90 to 100 gusting to 110 kmph). Extremely heavy rain (over 20 cm) is likely in south Odisha and north coastal Andhra Pradesh. Heavy to very heavy rainfall at isolated places is expected in north coastal Andhra Pradesh, north and interior districts of Odisha, and Gangetic West Bengal over the weekend. Fishermen have been advised against venturing into the Andaman Sea and parts of the Bay of Bengal until Sunday.The IMD has advised fishermen to return to the coast immediately and regulation of offshore and alongshore operations in north Andhra Pradesh, Odisha, and West Bengal coasts on Friday and their suspension on Saturday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/cyclone-jawad-likely-to-hit-andhra-odisha-coastline-on-saturday-101638502848285.html
03-12-2021||India||Will Karnataka see more curbs after Omicron cases? New SOP likely today||As Karnataka became the first state to report the first Omicron cases of Omicron in India, the state is on high alert and new SOPs are likely to be announced. The primary and the secondary contacts of these two Omicron cases have been tested and kept under watch. Chief minister Basavaraj Bommai who was in New Delhi will fly to Bengaluru and chair a high-level meeting on Friday to discuss the measures to be taken in the state in the light of the two Omicron cases. "We are conducting contact tracing. I will be holding a meeting with health experts at 1pm today. I have spoken to Health Minister Dr Mansukh Mandaviya, he will get back to me with some guidelines," the chief minister said.Karnataka has already imposed several restrictions on international travellers and people coming to the state from bordering states. Educational institutes have also been asked to to suspend any kind of public events. New SOPs are likely to be announced on Friday, following the chief minister's meeting with the experts. However, it is unlikely that there will be any lockdown as the chief minister earlier ruled out the possibility of imposing any lockdown. “There is no question of imposing the lockdown now. Normal life should go on," the chief minister said before Karnataka confirmed two Omicron cases. In the recent past, Karnataka has seen a spurt in cluster outbreaks of Covid infections. Regular tests are being carried out in such clusters.The health ministry on Thursday said there is no need to panic over Omicron as surveillance is going on. Announcing the cases found in the state on Twitter, Karnataka health minister Dr K Sudhakar wrote, "People can carry on with their day-to-day activities with strict adherence to covid appropriate behaviour."Unlike many other countrues which have imposed travel restrictions from Covid-affected countries, India has not imposed any travel curbs, though protocols are being revised and strengthened.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/will-karnataka-see-more-curbs-after-omicron-cases-new-sop-likely-today-101638501550769.html
03-12-2021||India||Delhi’s air quality in severe category||Delhi’s air quality was in the “severe” category on Friday morning even as the mercury was likely to dip to 12 degrees Celsius. According to the Central Pollution Control Board, the hourly Air Quality Index (AQI) at 7 am was 365. On Thursday, the average 24-hour AQI was 429An AQI between zero and 50 is considered “good”, 51 and 100 “satisfactory”, 101 and 200 “moderate”, 201 and 300 “poor”, 301 and 400 “very poor”, and 401 and 500 “severe”.On Thursday, the Union earth science’s ministry’s System of Air Quality and Weather Forecasting and Research said winds are likely to be calm until Sunday, reducing ventilation leading to the deterioration of air quality. It added from Monday onwards, the winds are expected to increase dispersing pollutants. “..but AQI (is) likely to remain in ‘very poor’ category. Partly cloudy sky and low mixing layer height are preventing efficient dispersion of pollutants.”The maximum temperature on Friday was expected to go up to 23 degrees Celsius, compared to 19.8 degrees Celsius on Thursday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/delhis-air-quality-in-severe-category-101638502487856.html
03-12-2021||India||News updates from HT: Deep depression to intensify into Cyclone Jawad in next 12 hours, and all the latest news||Here are today’s top news, analysis, and opinion. Know all about the latest news and other news updates from Hindustan Times.Cyclone Jawad: Deep depression to intensify into cyclonic storm in next 12 hoursThe low-pressure area in the Bay of Bengal is expected to intensify into Cyclone Jawad which is likely to reach the north Andhra Pradesh and south Odisha coasts on Saturday morning. Read more…'Very concerning': South Africa study shows Omicron's ability to evade immunity from prior infectionA preliminary study by South African scientists suggests that the Omicron variant is associated with a substantial ability to evade immunity from prior infection and is three times more likely to cause reinfections compared to the Beta or Delta variants. Read more…Mistakes by Indian PMs in foreign policy in past, listed by Jaishankar #HTLS2021India's external affairs minister Subrahmanyam Jaishankar listed foreign policy mistakes committed by Indian prime ministers in the past. Watch the full video for more'It's been some time since he got to three-figure mark': India batting legend 'really looking forward' to Kohli's returnMore than two years, over 700 days and a total of 56 innings. That's how long it has been since Virat Kohli scored an international cricket. It was back on November 23 of 2019 when Kohli scored the last of his 70 international centuries. Since then, the India captain has been part of four full-fledged Test series – both home and overseas – but a hundred has eluded Kohli. Read more…Malaika Arora chills in a bikini in Maldives, catches Arjun Kapoor scrolling through Instagram on holidayMalaika Arora and Arjun Kapoor are chilling in Maldives and have shared their individual pictures from the tourist destination. The couple have been dating for quite some time now. See picsWhen it comes to workouts, Tiger Shroff has 'no rest days'Tiger Shroff never takes a break from his fitness routine – we mean it. The actor loves to workout in between his shooting schedules even. Tiger's dedication to fitness is beyond any words and the actor swears by it. Tiger's workout videos often make their way on his Instagram profile and some of them are definitely not for the faint-hearted. Read more…||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/news-updates-from-ht-deep-depression-to-intensify-into-cyclone-jawad-in-next-12-hours-and-all-the-latest-news-101638500161854.html
03-12-2021||India||Bhopal gas tragedy: 37 years of one of the world's worst industrial disasters||Friday marks 37 years of the horror that had occurred in the Madhya Pradesh capital in 1984 when thousands of people were killed due to the tragic gas leak from the pesticide plant of Union Carbide India Limited (UCIL).The disaster took place on the intervening night of December 2-3 and to date, it is considered among the world's worst industrial disasters. Over 500,000 people were exposed to methyl isocyanate (MIC) gas and other highly toxic substances like carbon monoxide, hydrogen cyanide, etc made their way into and around the small towns located near the plant.As per a state government affidavit filed in the court in the year 2006, the tragedy had killed 3,787 people and affected more than 5.58 lakh in the state capital after toxic gas leaked from the Union Carbide factory which was closed after the tragedy. However, the organisations fighting for the victims claim the tragedy has killed at least 25,000 people.37 years on, victims still await adequate compensationIt has been 37 years since the disaster and the survivors and the kin of the deceased are still waiting to be compensated fairly by the government. According to a news report by PTI, each victim of the tragedy has so far received less than one-fifth of the allotted sum.The financial aid was USD 470 million in 1989, it reported quoting Bhopal Gas Peedith Sangharsh Sahayog Samiti (BGPSSS) co-convener N D Jayaprakash. "The dollars turned into more than ₹3,000 crore in 2004, when the disbursements started, but the number of the victims swelled to 5.73 lakh and this amount was distributed among them. So, each victim got one-fifth of the compensation," he also said, as per the report.(With agency inputs)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/bhopal-gas-tragedy-37-years-of-one-of-the-world-s-worst-industrial-disasters-101638498988003.html
03-12-2021||India||Cyclone Jawad: Deep depression to intensify into cyclonic storm in next 12 hours||The low-pressure area in the Bay of Bengal is expected to intensify into Cyclone Jawad which is likely to reach the north Andhra Pradesh and south Odisha coasts on Saturday morning. The Indian Meteorological Department (IMD) said that the depression lying centred over the Bay of Bengal about 770 km south-southeast of Vishakhapatnam late Thursday night is likely to move northwestwards.The depression intensified into a deep depression over west-central adjoining southeast Bay of Bengal on Friday morning. It is expected to further intensify into a cyclonic storm during the next 12 hours and reach north Andhra Pradesh-Odisha coast by Saturday morning, according to the Met department. Cyclone Jawad's wind speed may reach that of a severe cyclone for a brief period on Saturday when it approaches landfall.Heavy to extremely heavy rainfall is expected in many parts of Odisha, Andhra Pradesh and Gangetic West Bengal, prompting the IMD to issue a warning about the inundation of low lying areas and possible damage to standing crops, especially paddy.Cyclone Jawad: IMD asks people to stay indoors, Jharkhand to be impacted too | 10 pointsThe Odisha government has issued guidelines to prevent the adverse effects arising from Cyclone Jawad. Pradeep Kumar Jena, Special Relief Commissioner, said that the government plans to deploy 266 teams including National Disaster Response Force (NDRF), State Fire Services and Odisha Disaster Rapid Action Force (ODRAF) in coastal districts."The state government is well prepared to deal the emerging situation 14 coastal districts have been put on alert and asked to take all necessary steps in view of the impending cyclonic storm," Jena said.Fishing activities have been prohibited within the territorial waters along the entire coastline of Odisha from December 3 to December 5 for safeguarding the life and assets of fishermen due to impeding Cyclone Jawad."In view of the impending cyclonic storm 'JAWAD' as a measure of abundant caution there is a need to restrict fishing activities along the entire coast of Odisha and Chilika Lake from 3rd December 2021 till 5th December, 2021,” Fisheries and ARD Department said in an order.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/cyclone-jawad-deep-depression-to-intensify-into-cyclonic-storm-in-next-12-hours-101638498568607.html
03-12-2021||India||'His certificate may be true': How South African man with Omicron left India in a week after testing positive||The 66-year-old South African man who became India's one of the first two confirmed cases of Omicron, the new variant of Covid, has already left India within a week of testing Covid positive. Karnataka health minister Dr K Sudhakar said the man presented a negative Covid certificate which he got from a private lab. The certificate may not be wrong as all his primary and secondary contacts were tested negative, the health minister said. "The 66-year-old, who has left for South Africa, via Dubai, had presented a negative certificate for the virus, from a private lab. His primary and secondary contacts were found negative. So it means to say that his certificate may be true," he said, as quoted by ANI.The South African man reached Bengaluru on November 20, five days before South Africa confirmed the new variant. According to reports, he had a negative Covid certificate but his sample was taken as he was travelling from an 'at risk' country. His sample tested positive and a government doctor visited him at the hotel asking him to self-isolate. Reports said the man at that time revealed no symptoms. His samples were taken again on November 22 and sent for genome sequencing, the result of which came this week, after going through which the ministry on Thursday confirmed two Omicron cases in India.What India's 2 Omicron cases reveal: How the variant spread, symptoms, CT valueAccording to reports, the man got tested again on November 23 at a private lab and on November 27, he flew to Dubai.During his one-week stay in Bengaluru, he came into contact with 24 people, who are his primary contacts and there are 240 secondary contacts. All of them have tested negative.The health ministry on Thursday confirmed the first two cases of the Omicron variant in India, one being this South African traveller, whose identity has not been revealed. The second case is that of a 46-year-old doctor. Both of them were vaccinated against Covid. None of the cases reported any severe symptoms, Karnataka officials said. Since there is no link between these two cases and the 46-year-old doctor has no travel history, the state government said there might be many more infections of Omicron.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/his-certificate-may-be-true-karnataka-minister-on-south-african-man-with-omicron-who-left-india-after-testing-positive-101638495757112.html
03-12-2021||India||Nitin Gadkari says he will drive his green hydrogen car in Delhi to show it's possible||Union minister Nitin Gadkari on Thursday said he has bought a car that will run on green hydrogen produced at Faridabad's oil research institute for a pilot project. Addressing a national summit on financial inclusion, the transport minister said he will drive that car in Delhi so that people believe it's possible to get green hydrogen from water. The minister has been pitching for the prospects of green hydrogen as a potential transport fuel. "I have a plan to run buses, trucks and cars on green hydrogen that would be produced using sewage water and solid waste in cities," the minister said in the summit.Talking about a 7-year-old project that Gadkari had initiated in Nagpur where the sewage water would be recycled, Gadkari said now Nagpur sells its sewage water to Maharashtra government power plant and earns around 325crore in a year. "Nothing is waste. It depends on the vision of the leadership and technology that you can create wealth in waste. Now I am trying if we can create value in wastewater. Every municipality has this water," he said."Train people so that green hydrogen can be produced from this water. We have solid waste which can be covered by solar rooftops giving electricity at a cheaper rate. So electricity comes cheap and we have water and electrolysers are now produced by India. We can produce green hydrogen and this can be an alternative fuel. All buses, trucks, cars can be run on this. This is not difficult. I have bought a hydrogen car which I am going to drive in Delhi because people take time to accept out-of-box ideas," Gadkari said.Talking about other innovative projects that the minister has been part of, Nitin Gadkari said on one wall of his room, he has got paint made from cow dung. "There will be no need for gorakshan as people will not sell their cows if we can create business viability of cow dung and cow urine. Phenyl can be made from cow urine," the minister said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/nitin-gadkari-says-he-will-drive-his-green-hydrogen-car-in-delhi-to-show-it-s-possible-101638493031558.html
03-12-2021||India||PM Modi to inaugurate 'InFinity Forum' on fintech today; over 70 countries to participate||Prime Minister Narendra Modi will inaugurate a leadership Forum on Financial Technology (FinTech) on Friday. This is the first edition of the summit and will be inaugurated via virtual conference.According to an official statement by the Prime Minister's Office (PMO), the summit is set to see participation from more than 70 nations, while Indonesia, South Africa and the United Kingdom are partner countries.The two-day summit will bring together the leading minds of the world in business and technology to come together to discuss how technology and innovation can be leveraged by the FinTech industry for inclusive growth and serving humanity at large. It is being hosted by the International Financial Services Centres Authority (IFSCA) under the aegis of the Government of India in collaboration with GIFT City and Bloomberg.On Wednesday, the Prime Minister urged youngsters, especially those in the world of start-ups, tech and innovation to participate in the summit as he said it "will set the tone for stakeholders to think beyond conventional mindset, and approach and discuss new trends in SpaceTech, GreenTech, AgriTech, quantum computing and more."According to PMO, the agenda of the forum will focus on the theme of 'Beyond', with various sub-themes including FinTech beyond boundaries, with governments and businesses focussing beyond the geographical boundaries in the development of global stack to promote financial inclusiveness; FinTech beyond Finance, by having convergence with emerging areas such as SpaceTech, GreenTech and AgriTech to drive sustainable development.It will also include FinTech Beyond Next, with a focus on how quantum computing could impact the nature of the Fintech industry in the future and promote new opportunities.Finance ministers of Malaysia and Indonesia are among the key speakers. Mukesh Ambani, chairman of the Reliance Industries; SoftBank Group CEO Masayoshi Son, IBM Corporation Chairman and CEO Arvind Krishna and Kotak Mahindra Bank's CEO Uday Kotak are also among the speakers.(With agency inputs)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/pm-modi-to-inaugurate-infinity-forum-on-fintech-today-over-70-countries-to-participate-101638492491559.html
03-12-2021||India||What India's 2 Omicron cases reveal: How the variant spread, symptoms, CT value||Two cases of the new Covid variant Omicron have been detected in Karnataka, registering India's first reported case of this new variant which has triggered apprehension across the world, bringing back travel restrictions. Urging people to not panic, the health ministry has cautioned to not lower the guard against the infection. Karnataka chief minister Basavaraj Bommai will hold a high-level meeting on Friday to decide on imposing further restrictions in the state.Here is how the two cases were spread, detectedKarnataka health minister K Sudhakar earlier told that two cases did not match Delta and the Centre was alerted accordingly. One among them is a 66-year-old male who is a South African national. He came to Bengaluru on November 20 and tested positive. He was isolated in a hotel and got tested on November 23 at a private lab, during which his reports came negative. He left for Dubai on November 27. All his 24 primary contacts and 240 secondary contacts have tested negative.Omicron cases in India: No travel curbs yet but rules tightened, says MEAThe second person is a 46-year-old doctor working at a government hospital, who has no travel history. He was tested on November 22 as he complained of extreme tiredness, weakness and fever. According to reports, his cycle threshold value was low and his sample was sent to the lab. Three of his primary and two of his secondary contacts have tested positive.What are the symptoms? How fast the variant is spreading?According to Karnataka officials, there might be more cases of Omicron in the state as the doctor who tested positive has no travel history.There were no major symptoms in all the cases.Experts have observed low CT value in these cases and that is why samples of all international travellers testing positive with low CT value are being sent for genome sequencing."How it (Omicron) spreads, we can't say as of now, but there is no need to worry as all the six cases identified so far don't have any major health issues. We have seen the Delta variant, it had intensity, more issues like breathing, such things have not been noticed so far. Symptoms here are mild," the Karnataka health minister said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/what-india-s-2-omicron-cases-reveal-how-the-variant-spread-symptoms-ct-value-101638490185426.html
03-12-2021||India||Defence ties, geopolitical issues to be in focus during Putin’s visit||India and Russia will have an extensive engagement on defence and political ties and regional and international developments during President Vladimir Putin’s visit to New Delhi for the annual summit with Prime Minister Narendar Modi on December 6.Also Read | The centrality of the Arctic in the India-Russia partnershipThere will be a series of meetings, including the maiden 2+2 dialogue of the defence and foreign ministers, before the 21st annual India-Russia Summit. Russian defence minister Sergey Shoigu and foreign minister Sergey Lavrov will arrive in India on December 5.Also Read | India-Russia 2+2 dialogue to be held on margins of Modi-Putin summit on Dec 6The two sides will have an “intensive engagement” that will culminate with the summit, external affairs ministry spokesperson Arindam Bagchi told a regular news briefing.Defence minister Rajnath Singh and Shoigu will co-chair a meeting of the inter-governmental commission on military-technical cooperation, while external affairs minister S Jaishankar will hold a bilateral meeting with Lavrov early on Monday. These meetings will be followed by the inaugural 2+2 ministerial dialogue, which is expected to discuss bilateral, regional and international political and defence issues, Bagchi said.India has 2+2 ministerial meetings with very few countries, including the Australia, Japan and the US.At their annual summit in the afternoon on December 6, the two leaders will review the state and prospects of bilateral relations and discuss ways to further strengthen the bilateral strategic partnership. The summit will be an opportunity to exchange views on regional, multilateral and international issues and several agreements are expected to be signed during and in the run-up to the summit.Asked about the US threatening to impose secondary sanctions under the Countering America’s Adversaries Through Sanctions Act (CAATSA) on India’s deal to acquire five S-400 air defence systems from Russia, Bagchi said, “India and the US have a special global strategic partnership. We also have a special and privileged strategic partnership with Russia and we pursue an independent foreign policy.Also Read | CCS takes up ₹5.1k-cr AK-203 deal ahead of Putin’s visit“This applies to our defence acquisitions and supplies, which are and will continue to be guided by our national security interests.”He declined to comment on reports quoting Russian officials as saying that Moscow had begun delivering the first regiment of S-400 systems.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/defence-ties-geopolitical-issues-to-be-in-focus-during-putin-s-visit-101638482574107.html
03-12-2021||India||States brace as Cyclone Jawad nears, PM holds review meet||A cyclonic storm, named Cyclone Jawad, is likely to form over central Bay of Bengal but it may not intensify into severe category as expected earlier, India Meteorological Department (IMD) said on Thursday, adding that it still has the potential to cause widespread damage over Odisha and Gangetic West Bengal on Friday.Also Read | Cyclone Jawad: IMD asks people to stay indoors, Jharkhand to be impacted tooAccording to IMD, the low pressure area over central parts of Andaman Sea has moved west-northwestwards and become a well-marked low pressure area over south-east Bay of Bengal and adjoining Andaman Sea. It moved west-northwestwards and concentrated into a depression over south-east and adjoining east-central Bay of Bengal on Wednesday evening. It is likely to move north-westwards and intensify into cyclone Jawad over central parts of the Bay of Bengal during the subsequent 24 hours and reach west-central Bay of Bengal off north Andhra Pradesh–south Odisha coasts around Friday morning. Thereafter, it is likely to move north-northeastwards, IMD said.Also Read | Cyclone Jawad: What we know so far about its formation and movement path“The expected intensity of cyclone Jawad has reduced a bit. So, while it is a relief that it may not intensify beyond a cyclonic storm, the northeast monsoon easterly winds will still feed warmth and moisture bringing rain,” explained Sunitha Devi, in-charge, cyclones at IMD.On Thursday, Prime Minister Narendra Modi chaired a meeting to review the preparedness of states, central ministries and other agencies to deal with the situation arising out of the likely formation of cyclone Jawad, according to the Prime Minister’s Office.Also Read | Cyclone Jawad: 95 trains cancelled for ‘safety of passengers’. Check full list“PM Modi held a meeting today and he has been given the details of the cyclone situation. We are in constant contact with the state governments and assuring them of providing required NDRF teams. A total of 29 teams have already been deployed at the required places. Now a total of 33 teams are also being deployed to deal with the situation,” Atul Karwal, director-general of the National Disaster Response Force (NDRF Karwal was quoted as saying by news agency ANI.Till Wednesday, out of 10 models under consideration by the IMD, two indicated that cyclone Jawad would cross the Odisha coast, while others suggested it would skirt the Odisha and Andhra Pradesh coasts. “If it skirts the coast, then the impact will be marginally less. But, extremely heavy rain is expected over coastal districts of Odisha, Gangetic West Bengal and Andhra Pradesh,” Devi added.Also Read | Cyclone Jawad: IMD issues red alert for heavy rainfall in some Odisha districtsThe off-shore and alongshore operations along north Andhra Pradesh, Odisha and West Bengal coasts have been advised to be judiciously regulated on Friday and suspended on Saturday, to ensure safety of life and property. Fishermen all along the coast in these states have been advised not to venture into the sea, officials said||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/states-brace-as-cyclone-jawad-nears-pm-holds-review-meet-101638481720488.html
03-12-2021||India||Act on bad air in 24 hrs: SC to Centre||The Supreme Court on Thursday put the Centre on a 24-hour deadline to come out with a “creative” and “urgent” mechanism to control air pollution in Delhi-NCR, failing which, the court said, it may set up a task force itself since “nothing is really happening to control pollution” and “all authorities have failed”.The top court also pulled up the Delhi government for reopening schools on November 29, directing it to reconsider the decision in the wake of exposing young children to bad air and toxic smog. Hours later, the Delhi government announced the closure of schools until further orders.Also Read | Delhi schools shut again after push from SCFixing the next hearing at 10am on Friday, a bench, headed by Chief Justice of India (CJI) NV Ramana, said that the Centre and the Commission for the Air Quality Management (CAQM) for Delhi-NCR and Adjoining Areas must apprise the court if they could come up with a more effective mechanism for implementing the pollution control measures.“We expect a serious, serious action or we will pass orders. We give you 24 hours to come out with a plan of action. You take a hard look at the issue and come up with a solution with seriousness. If you cannot, we will have to pass some directions tomorrow,” the bench, which also comprised justices Dhananjaya Y Chandrachud and Surya Kant, told solicitor general Tushar Mehta.While Mehta, representing the Centre and CAQM, sought to highlight the steps taken by the Commission against violators, the court remained unimpressed and remarked that all authorities have been unable to contribute anything on controlling pollution.“If there is an emergency situation, you have to act urgently and with some creativity and innovation. But we cannot induce creativity in the bureaucracy. We cannot help you if you don’t want to do something... We will have to do something extraordinary or the situation cannot be helped,” observed the bench.Also Read | Rain has little impact as air quality slides to severe in DelhiIt also questioned the efficacy of CAQM, asking whether the Commission has any power to enforce its directives or if its remit is confined to only issuing directions. “Also, look at the composition of your Commission. It has members from all states, all departments in the country. Then, you have so many subcommittees under the Commission. It is more like all departments of the government of India together...What is the purpose of having 20-30 members except creating an additional burden on the state exchequer,” the bench said, pointing at the composition of the 28-member CAQM.Delhi has been in the grip of hazardous pollution for over a month now. This was the worst November for Delhi in terms of the average air quality index (AQI).December too has started with alarming pollution levels, with the AQI hitting 429 on Thursday, up from 370 a day earlier. While pollution in November was driven significantly by smoke from farm fires in upwind states, the air quality so far this December has been fuelled largely by local emissions.Mehta, on his part, tried to convince the bench that there are flying squads which have been monitoring the directions given by CAQM, and read out details of monetary penalties imposed for industrial and vehicular pollution.“Fines are not the solution to this problem...We feel nothing is happening even as pollution levels are rising. All this is just wasting our time...We will take up tomorrow morning... We will come at 10am and will give you 15 minutes to tell us what you can do now. We will only say don’t compel us to do what you should do,” retorted the bench.The CJI further told Mehta: “As a layman, I am asking this question. The question is the day when this matter started, there was a particular level of pollution. Then we heard the matter, there were reports in the newspapers and media; there was wide publicity; directions were given too. The question that we ask is why the pollution levels are still going up? That’s the question every citizen will ask... Delhi government and others said stubble burning is a main cause but that’s over now.”Mehta said that CAQM has identified industrial and vehicular pollution as chief contributors but the bench yet again noticed that there was no implementation mechanism in place to check vehicles coming from Uttar Pradesh to the national capital. “This is just an instance of non-implementation,” added the bench.To this, Mehta said he would consult the Union environment minister and other authorities on certain points that he has for a better structuring of the Commission and a more effective implementation mechanism.The court also slammed the Delhi government for reopening schools in the city.“Small children have to go in morning in fog. Children have to go to schools at 6-7 in the morning in this bad weather,” the bench told senior counsel Abhishek Manu Singhvi, who appeared for the Delhi government.Singhvi maintained that the Delhi government has taken strongest possible measures to control pollution and that there is no dilution of the court order, and pointed to studies and reports on learning loss due to school closure during the pandemic. “But if this court wants us to reconsider, we will do it,” he added.“Don’t use our shoulders to fire shots. You are the government. You do your work. Who will sit at home when you open schools?,” the bench told Singhvi.Meanwhile, senior counsel Vikas Singh, who appeared for the 17-year-old petitioner, Aditya Dubey, pressed for a ban on construction in the Central Vista, citing huge amount of dust. “Even for Central Vista, the same standard has to follow. No project can be more important than lives of people. Why allow Vista only? Other builders could also say that we will also comply with pollution norms and therefore, they should also be allowed,” argued the lawyer.Singh urged the bench to set up a task force under the chairmanship of a former Supreme Court judge and suggested justice Rohinton F Nariman’s name. “Norms are there, but no implementation. Please constitute an empowered task force and flying squads to ensure compliance,” he said.
03-12-2021||India||Will stop namaz again: Gurugram right-wing groups||Members of right-wing groups on Thursday threatened to disrupt namaz again on Friday and informed the district administration about their intention to adopt any means, including violence if necessary, to stop Muslims from offering Friday prayers in public places.Following the threats, the district administration and the Gurugram police have decided to deploy personnel on a large scale at the 20 designated namaz sites to prevent a law-and-order situation on Friday.
03-12-2021||India||Lok Sabha picks up pace after logjam on first two days of winter session||New Delhi: After losing first two days of the ongoing winter session to disruptions, the Lok Sabha bounced back on Wednesday, clocking 117% productivity as it worked overtime to clear The Assisted Reproductive Technology (Regulation) Bill, 2020, multiple functionaries said on condition of anonymity. A senior Lok Sabha functionary pointed out 129 MPs participated in various debates in the House on Wednesday. “In the ART bill, a total of 18 MPs participated, of which 15 belonged to various Opposition parties.” The House sat for two extra hours beyond the scheduled time to compensate for the time lost on the previous two days.On Thursday, the Lower House clocked even further as it debated the Covid-19 situation in the country. “More than 40 MPs were expected to take part in the all-important debate that is also a pet subject for the Opposition,” said a functionary. In order to end the logjam that nearly washed off the first two days of the ongoing session, Lok Sabha Speaker Om Birla, who has earned a reputation for keeping channels of communication open with all party leaders, held two meetingson Wednesday and Thursday with floor leaders of various parties. A functionary said, “Birla told floor leaders that they must participate in the Covid debate and speak about their experience and innovations and how they tackled Covid in their constituencies.” Congress floor leader in Lok Sabha, Adhir Ranjan Chowdhury told HT: “The Rajya Sabha presiding officers have much to learn from our Speaker. He is the custodian of the House but he takes everyone along. I think his approach resolves a lot of problem.” Another functionary said, “There was a separate meeting with the TRS (Telangana Rashtra Samithi) lawmakers who were protesting over alleged low procurement of food grains by the Centre in Telangana. The Speaker allowed them to raise their issue and they were happy.” But disruptions might soon return to the House as the Opposition is determined to demand a legislative backing for the minimum support prices (MSP) for farmers. When asked, Birla said, “All issues are to be decided in the Business Advisory Committee meetings. I have no problem if all sides decide on a debate on MSP or any other issue. But the House must run.” The Lok Sabha has also improved the rate of government reply to issues raised by MPs during the Zero Hour. Till Thursday during the ongoing session, at least 70 issues have been raised during the Zero Hour. A senior functionary said that “PM Narendra Modi was also keen that MPs get replies from the government on the issues raised in Zero Hour.” ‘Apprise LS about LAC situation’Meanwhile, Congress leader Adhir Ranjan Chowdhury on Thursday demanded that the government must apprise the Lok Sabha about the border situation, in the backdrop of the ongoing conflict between India and China. Chowdhury later told HT: “The government managers have informed me that they will issue a statement on the border situation.”
03-12-2021||India||Amit Shah lauds UP govt over law and order, takes a swipe at Akhilesh||Union home minister Amit Shah on Thursday said that the law and order situation has improved in Uttar Pradesh under the Yogi Adityanath government, emphasising that the dacoity rate fell by 70% in comparison to the previous Samajwadi Party (SP) regime led by Akhilesh Yadav.Shah was addressing a public meeting at Puwarka in Saharanpur district on Thursday after laying the foundation stone of the Maa Shakumbhari State University along with chief minister Yogi Adityanath, Union education minister Dharmendra Pradhan, deputy chief minister Dinesh Sharma, other ministers and party leaders.The home minister said people of western UP were facing the terror of the mafia earlier but the Yogi government had restored the honour of the region by initiating stern action against criminals.“The mafia and criminals now surrender before the police,” Shah said and appreciated Yogi Adityanath for providing security to the people, especially women and girls, by creating an atmosphere free of fear.Hitting out at Akhilesh Yadav, Shah said that he had heard the SP leader’s claim that crime has increased in UP under the Yogi government and asked “Akhileshji aap kahan se chashma laaye ho? (From where have you bought your glasses?)”“I have comparative data of crime under both governments,” he said.He asserted that the crime rate had reduced during BJP rule in Uttar Pradesh and incidents of loot declined by 69%, cases of murder by 30% and dowry deaths by 22.5% in comparison to the previous government. He advised Akhilesh Yadav to go home and examine the data.Listing the achievements of the Narendra Modi government, he said the Prime Minister had done what no one else could do in the past 70 years.He repealed Article 370 of the Constitution, provided justice to Muslim women by doing away with triple talaq and a grand Ram Mandir is now being built in Ayodhya, Shah said.The home minister also said the new university in Saharanpur will help in providing good education to youths of the districts nearby and they would no longer have to go outside to pursue their studies.He also mentioned a free ration scheme to poor. Besides, Shah said 90% of the sugarcane dues had been paid and the remaining 10% payment would also be made soon.He accused previous governments of hatching a conspiracy to sell sugar mills and said a CBI inquiry is underway to probe these deals.“No sugar mill was sold under the Yogi government,” he added and called upon the people to ensure the BJP’s victory in over 300 seats in the forthcoming assembly elections in the state.Reacting to Shah’s remarks, Samajwadi Party state spokesperson Rajendra Chaudhary said: “From top to bottom, the BJP leadership lies. Under the BJP rule, the state for four and a half years had been grabbing headlines nationally for crimes. Crime in all categories has risen. Hathras, Pratapgarh, Gorakhpur, Kanpur, almost all districts reported major crimes. In custody deaths or crimes against Dalits, the government got a rap from SC and the human rights commission. Even farmers were mowed down by BJP leaders. The government and its lies are exposed and people will throw this government out and bring in an SP government.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/amit-shah-lauds-up-govt-over-law-and-order-takes-a-swipe-at-akhilesh-101638473802915.html
03-12-2021||India||Winter session: Rajya Sabha passes Dam Safety Bill amid protest by Opposition||NEW DELHI: The Parliament on Thursday passed a bill to prevent dam disasters through regular surveillance, inspection, operation and maintenance, with the Rajya Sabha approving the legislation amid several Opposition parties calling it an assault on federalism and demanding that the bill be sent to the select committee for scrutiny. The Lok Sabha passed the Dam Safety Bill, 2019, which seeks to provide a robust legal and institutional framework for ensuring the safety of dams. The Upper House passed the bill by voice vote even as a motion to send it to the select committee of the house was defeated with 80 lawmakers voting against it and 26 in favour. Responding to a discussion on the bill in which 22 MPs took part, Union minister of Jal Shakti Gajendra Singh Shekhawat addressed the concerns of several opposition MPs that the Centre’s intention was to encroach on the powers of state governments, saying the government followed the principle of cooperative federalism in its working. Several parties, including the Congress, Trinamool Congress, DMK, CPI (M) and RJD, accused the government of usurping the powers of state governments as dams were a state subject and the Centre could not make rules for the states. Stressing on the need for a country-wide protocol for dam safety, Shekhawat said the government sought the solicitor general’s advice before bringing the bill and the legal opinion was that the government could legislate on dam safety under the relevant Constitutional provisions.The minister recounted several recent dam disasters and the destruction of lives and property caused by the incidents, adding that the dam safety law was essential to protect the country, its citizens and the riverine ecosystem. The bill addresses issues encompassing regular inspection of dams, emergency action plans, comprehensive dam safety reviews, instrumentation and safety manuals. It also fixes accountability for dam safety on the dam owner and provides for penal provisions for commission and omission of certain acts. It also lays down owners of dams will have to earmark sufficient funds for maintenance. Earlier taking part in the discussion on the bill, Congress MP Shaktisinh Gohil said the government had no right to legislate on a state subject and the bill was against the provisions of the Constitution. RJD MP Manoj Kumar Jha said that the government was always trying to encroach on state subjects and violating the principle of federalism, even as he demanded that bill be sent to the select committee.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/winter-session-rajya-sabha-passes-dam-safety-bill-amid-protest-by-opposition-101638473689289.html
03-12-2021||India||Cong leadership not a ‘divine right’: Row over Oppn space||A tussle between the Congress and its one-time ally Trinamool Congress (TMC) over leadership of the Opposition intensified on Thursday with the former criticising Bengal CM Mamata Banerjee and TMC’s poll strategist Prashant Kishor saying no one had the “divine right” to lead the grand old party.The war of words came a day after Banerjee launched an unprecedented, though veiled, attack on the Congress and said the Congress-led United Progressive Alliance (UPA), a coalition she was a part of, didn’t exist anymore. She said if someone stayed abroad “half the time” and wasn’t on the field, the BJP will “bowl you out”, ostensibly a reference to Congress leader Rahul Gandhi.Also Read | Mamata Banerjee in Mumbai: What is UPA? There is no UPAHer comment was seen as adding to the TMC’s attempts to aggressively expand its national footprint, keep the Congress at bay and emerge as a national alternative to the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP).On Thursday, Kishor, widely credited for the TMC’s victory in the Bengal election in May, appeared to expand on the idea. “The IDEA and SPACE that #Congress represents is vital for strong opposition. But Congress’ leadership is not the DIVINE RIGHT of an individual especially, when the party has lost more than 90% elections in last 10 years,” he tweeted. “Let opposition leadership be decided democratically,” he added. The Congress hit back immediately. “Hell hath no fury like a strategist scorned,” said the party’s national spokesperson Pawan Khera.Later in the day, party general secretary Randeep Surjewala launched a more frontal attack on Banerjee. “For her, it can be political expediency, but for us fighting the BJP and RSS is close to us,” he said.“Is Mamata not doing the same as Modi ji is doing. Modi ji is buying legislators and so is Mamata ji. Modi ji is breaking parties and so is Mamata ji doing in breaking parties,” he added.Banerjee and the Congress leadership enjoyed a warm personal relationship but ties dipped sharply in recent months as the TMC signalled its national ambitions, entering the electoral space in Goa, Tripura and most recently, Meghalaya. On the other hand, the Congress was roiled by the exit of prominent leaders and internal disagreements over the party’s direction. In the last three months, the TMC engineered high-profile defections from the Congress, including former Goa chief minister Luizinho Faleiro and ex-Assam MP Sushmita Dev. Last week, the TMC poached 12 lawmakers from the Congress in Meghalaya, including former CM Mukul Sangma. Kishor is seen as the primary architect of the TMC’s political manoeuvres.On Wednesday, Banerjee also made a pitch for unifying opposition parties to take on the BJP. She was accompanied during the media interaction by NCP chief Sharad Pawar. The Congress dismissed her remarks. “Without the Congress, the UPA will be a body without a soul. Time to show opposition unity,” tweeted senior leader Kapil Sibal, without referring to Banerjee.Also Read | ‘UPA will be a body without…’: Kapil Sibal replies to Mamata's ‘what is UPA’Kishor and the Congress, for whom the strategist worked in 2017, also share a tumultuous history. According to people familiar with the matter, talks between Kishor and the Congress broke down three months ago amid resistance from a significant part of the party to Kishor’s demands. Kishor responded to a request for comment with a smiley emoji.Two senior Congress leaders said Kishor had a set of demands for his entry in the Congress.Also Read | Opposition cannot be limited to UPA; need broader front with collective leadership, says NCP“He wanted to be a member of the Congress Working Committee, the top executive body and be appointed as general secretary election planning of the AICC,” said a senior leader, who is also an MP. Neither was an issue; the Congress has seen lateral entries at senior levels: K Raju, an IAS-officer turned Rahul Gandhi aide, and Praveen Chakravarthy, the chief of data analytics department, and a few others.“But he also proposed that starting from the booth level right up to the state unit level of the Congress there would be a parallel structure exclusively to handle elections. This raised a lot of questions,” said the second leader.The first leader added that timing may have been an issue; Kishor said he would start working with the Congress after the Uttar Pradesh and Punjab elections.“Several leaders also questioned why he wanted to start working for the Congress after the UP and Punjab elections—top priorities for the party.”There was also distrust. “Some questioned whether he could be trusted to stay with the Congress when he was in demand from many parties such as TMC, DMK, YSRCP.” Both leaders did not want to be identified.“Four months back, in August , Congress president Sonia Gandhi sought the opinion of each and every CWC member on Kishor’s proposal. Many senior leaders felt that the structure that PK proposed might run parallel to the AICC-appointed hierarchy in the states,” said a third leader, a senior member of the CWC, who spoke on condition of anonymity.On July 13, Kishor met Rahul Gandhi and Priyanka Gandhi Vadra. A month later, he quit as political advisor to then Punjab CM Amarinder Singh. Kishor earlier worked with Rahul Gandhi when he was in charge of the Congress’ unsuccessful campaign (in partnership with the Samajwadi Party) in UP in 2017.
03-12-2021||India||Coal stocking norms for thermal plants revised: Govt to Lok Sabha||New Delhi: The Union government on Thursday informed Parliament that it has revised the coal stocking norms for thermal power plants across the country. It also informed the Lok Sabha that coal stocks at nearly 136 power plants have improved in November as compared to the previous two months. “Revised coal stocking norms have been formulated by Central Electricity Authority (CEA) mandating the coal stock of 17 days at pit head stations and 26 days at non-pit head stations to be maintained by power plants from February to June every year,” Union minister of power and new & renewable energy RK Singh said in a written reply to the Lok Sabha. Non-pit head plants are power plants where the coal mine is more than 1,500 km away. Singh also informed that coal stocks at 136 power plants in the country improved to 18.95 million tonnes (MT) in November this year as compared to 8.07 MT in October and 10.37 MT in September. However, the current stock is still not as much of a comfortable situation as it can run all the plants for an average of 9.5 days. Senior power officials said the change in norms is significant because power plants will have to strictly follow these parameters, failing which penalties will be levied — an aspect that was not present in CEA regulations so far. “The power plants will now have to keep adequate coal stocks as per the new norms. It is aimed to avoid a repeat of the recent crisis when a significant capacity of generating station had to be shut down due to low coal stocks,” an official said on condition of anonymity. Earlier, power plants located at pit head plants were required to keep 15 days of coal stock, while the requirement increased to 20 days for plants located within 200 km from the mines, 25 days for those within 1,000 km and 30 days for plants situated further away from the mines. 
03-12-2021||India||Mullaperiyar dam: Vijayan writes to Tamil Nadu over releasing water||Protests erupted in many parts of the Idukki district on Thursday after Tamil Nadu opened shutters of Mullaperiyar dam on Wednesday night without proper warning, causing severe flooding in the area downstream. Around 40 houses were partially damaged due to the incident, the district administration said. The Kerala government asked the high-power committee for the dam to convene an urgent meeting to discuss this. State water resources minister Roshy Augustine said it was a serious issue and chief minister Pinarayi Vijayan will take it up with his Tamil Nadu counterpart at the earliest. “It is not right to release a large amount of water at night without any notice. It is a procedural violation that amounted to contempt of court also. We will also inform the Supreme Court about this in the next hearing,” said the minister. He said many people living in downstream areas were forced to shift to relief camps after water inundated their dwellings. This is the second time Tamil Nadu opened the dam without any warning, he said.Earlier, the state opened the shutters of the dam on Tuesday.Ten shutters of the dam were raised to 60 cms Wednesday night after the water level crossed the permissible limit of 142 feet. Later, seven shutters were closed after easing pressure. The situation aggravated after Tamil Nadu stopped water flow from the dam as its southern districts have been receiving heavy rains for almost a week. Residents of Vallakadavu, the nearest settlement to the dam, said alert activists averted a big tragedy by waking up many from their sleep. “We are lucky not to lose any life. Many were woken up from their deep slumber. It was an inhuman act,” said M Manikandan, a resident, adding that he lost everything in gushing water. Protests marches were organised mainly by Kerala Congress at several places, and some protestors blocked the Kollam-Dindigal highway for many hours. The officials lifted the blockade after the district collector ensured the locals that the issue will be taken up with the Tamil Nadu government at the earliest. A bone of contention between two neighbouring states, the Mullaperiyar dam is situated in the Periyar river inside the Periyar tiger reserve. Its water is diverted to the Suruliyar river, a tributary of the Vaigai river. It is the main source of agriculture and drinking water for five districts in southern Tamil Nadu. The dam was built under an agreement between the erstwhile royal family of Travancore and the British administration in 1886 to take water to famine-hit Tamil Nadu for irrigation. A major part of the west-flowing river was diverted to the east to flow through arid regions of the state. After independence, the dam became part of Kerala, and since then, the main share of water flows to the southern districts of Tamil Nadu, and it reaches Madurai. But its custody is with Tamil Nadu.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/mullaperiyar-dam-vijayan-writes-to-tamil-nadu-over-releasing-water-101638473322692.html
03-12-2021||India||AIADMK announces polls for party top posts on December 7||A day after altering the bylaws for the party’s internal voting process, the All India Anna Dravida Munnetra Kazhagam (AIADMK) on Wednesday announced elections to the coordinator and joint coordinator positions to be held on December 7, said a statement from the party. Nominations for the posts will begin Friday, the statement said. The posts are currently occupied by O Panneerselvam and Edappadi Palaniswami respectively.The elections will be held on a single voting system, where each member can cast only one vote to elect both leaders as a pair. The new changes to the bylaws transfer the power of voting from the party’s general council (about 3000 members) to the primary members (more than 1 crore cadres who have been members for five years). Officials said except Panneerselvam and Palaniswami, no other pair is expected to contest for the posts.“If there is no other nomination received, we will declare that these two candidates are being elected unopposed,” said a senior AIADMK leader.According to AIADMK’s by-laws, organisational elections have to be held once every five years. So this is the first time that nominations and elections to this position are being held. Reacting to the developments, Sasikala on Thursday released a statement addressing the AIADMK cadre, assuring them that the status quo will change soon. “Party cadre need not worry,” she said. “The state of the party will change soon. AIADMK has gone through a lot before and risen.” She also asked those who have been expelled for speaking to her and supporting her to be patient. On November 29 night, the AIADMK, in its first high profile sacking expelled minority wing leader A Anwar Raajhaa for speaking in favour of re-inducting Sasikala. “I will continue to keep working and not rest until I make this a cadres’ party,” Sasikala said.But the party continues to staunchly not let Sasikala and her family members in. “The cadre don’t want Sasikala back. She’s not even a basic member of the party,” former AIADMK minister C Ponniyan told reporters in Salem district on Thursday. “We look at it as anybody using the AIADMK flag on the streets.” Ponnaiyan and MLA Pollachi V Jayaraman will be election commissioners for this internal election.Experts said that the AIADMK wants to face the urban local body polls (which is likely to be December end or in January) as a united front. “Panneerselvam and Palaniswami’s power sharing arrangement is that they will either win or lose together. The intention behind all these changes is that they will have the consensus of the entire party cadre,” said political analyst Maalan Narayanan.“The AIADMK has been speaking in different voices recently. This will help the party to consolidate and speak in one voice,” said Maalan. 
03-12-2021||India||Uniform Mass row heats up in Kerala’s Catholic church||Many Catholic churches in Kerala last Sunday witnessed protests against the directive to implement a uniform way of conducting the Holy Mass from November 28 and burnt copies of the directive at several places. The Synod (supreme council of church to decide on doctrine and administration) had issued a directive in September to all dioceses under the Syro-Malabar church to conduct the Mass facing the altar from November 28, which also marks the church’s liturgical calendar.Many churches in Ernakulam-Angamally, Irinjalakuda and Faridabad (national capital region) dioceses kept away from uniform Mass on November 28 citing exemptions. Synod sought explanation from the oriental congregation saying exemption was only a temporary reprieve and all should embrace the new form at the earliest, people familiar with the development said.Almaya Munnettam, a laity organisation in Ernakulam-Angamally Archdiocese, which is leading the initiative against the uniform Mass, warned of serious consequences if the church goes ahead with its directive.“We approached Pope Francis and Cardinal Leonardo, perfect of the oriental congregation, and got exemption but the church is pushing ahead with its decision. We will not allow this to happen,” said Almaya Munnettam convenor Binu John, adding that any move to dilute exemption will be opposed.John said the latest notice seeking explanation from dioceses which failed to conduct the new form of Holy Mass angered some section.Protestors want independent rituals to stay and fear indigenous practices will vanish with uniform process, said people familiar of the development , and added that growing dissent may snowball into a major crisis and even lead to a split, if not solved amicably.“It is not simply facing the altar or not—whether to follow Syrian or Roman origin is the moot question here. The issue has been brewing for more than four decades but of late it gained prominence,” said George Podipara, a church watcher and a senior journalist, adding this is the main reason behind some of the recent feuds in the Syro-Malabar Church including dissent against senior most priest of the state Cardinal Mar George Alancherry.“It is true, earlier believers simply followed what priests and bishops said but now times have changed. It is not a mere friction over the Mass, it is a struggle between fundamentalists and progressive forces in the church,” Shaiju Antony, Almaya Munnettam spokesperson, said.Antony said orthodox section is pushing the church back by imposing uniformity and ignoring time-tested changes.Syro-Malabar Bishops’ Synod and editor of Light of Truth, a fortnightly, Father Paul Thelakat said that all types of fundamentalism impose uniformity.“Uniformity takes away local diversity. The protestors are anxious about the concept of authority which is not Christian but autocratic. Imposing uniformity is not at all a participatory way of exercising authority,” Thelakat said.Protestors said they have been facing to the people for entire duration of the Mass and the new directive makes difficult for them to face the altar throughout the Mass, and they insist for a 50:50 formula—half of the Mass facing believers and half facing the altar.However, supporters of the uniform Mass said only a minuscule section of priests and laity were opposing new changes.“We have been following the 50-50 formula for quite some time. It is time to change. The liturgical form is an identity of the church and it needs to be uniform,” said media commission secretary Father Alex Onampally, adding that dissenting priests and believers will be placated.
03-12-2021||India||Bengaluru doctor contracted new Covid-19 variant without international travel||Karnataka health department officials and members of the Bruhat Bengaluru Mahanagara Palike (BBMP) haven’t been able to ascertain how one of the two people who tested positive for Omicron, got infected with the new variant of the Coronavirus. Unlike, the other person who had travelled from South Africa where the variant was initially detected, this local resident, does not have any history of international travel, confirmed state health minister Dr K Sudhakar. According to the chronology given by the BBMP, the first case of Omicron reported in Karnataka was that of a 66-year-old South African, who arrived in Bengaluru on November 20. He tested positive for the virus on the same day, and he was isolated. BBMP reports read that none of his 24 primary contacts and 240 secondary contacts tested positive for the virus. BBMP commissioner Gaurav Gupta told HT that the second patient didn’t have any contact with the South African national. The report of the second patient says that he is a 44-year-old resident of Bengaluru and was working as a healthcare worker. Health minister Sudhakar further confirmed that he was a doctor working with a private hospital in the city. He developed fever and body ache on November 21 and tested positive the next day. Since he had a low CT value (which indicates a high viral load), his sample was sent for genomic sequencing. When asked how the patient got the new variant without travelling abroad or coming in contact with the South African national, the health minister said, “The patient must have come in contact with someone with travel history. We are still tracking it.” BBMP commissioner Gaurav Gupta refused to comment on the issue. The government has also confirmed that the patient was in home isolation between November 22 to 24 and on November 25, he was shifted to a hospital. However, he was discharged on November 27. The second patient had 13 primary contacts and 205 secondary contacts. Out of whom, three primary contacts and two secondary contacts have tested positive for Covid-19. They are currently at a government hospital, and they are not showing any severe symptoms. A senior health department official, who spoke on condition of anonymity, said that the department or the BBMP doesn’t have any information about the source of the variant. “We believe the answer for this question could be found in contact tracing,” he said. However, KV Thrilok Chandra, special commissioner, BBMP (health) told HT that none of the five contacts of the doctor have any travel history. “As of now we don’t know how got the new variant,” said Chandra. A member of Karnataka’s Technical Advisory Committee said that it is possible that the variant must have entered the state before restrictions were put in place. “It is conjecture at this point, and it would be difficult to give a definite answer. Since all patients and their contacts have no history of travel, we can also assume that the variant must have come in early. But there is no need to panic. There is no evidence suggesting that this variant is deadly. So, we should focus on handling this variant,” said the doctor who didn’t want to be named.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/bengaluru-doctor-contracted-new-covid-19-variant-without-international-travel-101638472963670.html
03-12-2021||India||Pedestrians not following norms for walking, crossing roads cause deaths: Govt to Rajya Sabha||New Delhi: Pedestrian deaths in the country occur mostly because people do not follow the norms laid down for walking and crossing roads during traffic, the Union government has told Parliament, evoking sharp criticism from experts, who questioned the Centre over lack of adequate walking infrastructure.“Generally, such deaths occur due to pedestrians not following norms laid down for walking along roads or trying to cross roads during traffic. Accidents also occur due to over-speeding vehicles,” Union road transport and highways minister Nitin Gadkari told the Rajya Sabha on Wednesday, in a written reply to a question by Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) MP from Uttar Pradesh, Brij Lal.The ministry also placed on record that the government has, so far, not conducted any study to analyse the causes of pedestrian deaths in the country. “To prevent road accidents and save lives, the Motor Vehicle (Amendment) Act, 2019 passed by Parliament, focuses on road safety and includes, inter-alia, hike in penalties for traffic violations, electronic monitoring of the same, enhanced penalties for juvenile driving, computerisation/automation of vehicle fitness and driving, tests, recall of defective vehicles, streamlining the third-party insurance and payment of increased compensation for hit and run cases etc. The Amendment has strengthened the law to improve the road safety scenario and reduce loss of lives. However, no study on why pedestrian deaths happen is available or has been conducted,” the reply stated.According to data provided by the Centre to the Rajya Sabha, a total of 23,483 pedestrian deaths due to road accidents were recorded in 2020. Despite the Covid-19 pandemic and subsequent lockdown, the number of pedestrian deaths last year saw a marginal dip from 2019, when 25,858 pedestrians were killed in road accidents. In 2018, as many as 22,656 pedestrian deaths were reported from across the country.Overall, 131,714 people were killed in road accidents across the country in 2020 calendar year, down from 151,113 recorded in 2019, according to the government data. Reacting sharply to the Centre’s reply on pedestrian deaths, Kamal Soi, member of the National Road Safety Council, said the government’s approach to urban and safe mobility was wrong. “This is a ridiculous and absurd answer and I, despite being a member of the government of India’s road safety council, do not endorse this. We have not created the necessary infrastructure for pedestrians and still we have the audacity to blame them for their own deaths. It is the sole responsibility of all the agencies to create and ensure adequate infrastructure for safe pedestrian movement. The world is moving towards walking and cycling as a last-mile connectivity mode and here we have lawmakers having such a fundamentally wrong approach to policies,” Soi added.Shreya Gadepalli, managing trustee at Urban Works Institute, said designing cities for people rather than cars could ensure that “streets are full of life, not deaths”.“Road crashes have become so common that they hardly evoke any reaction in us anymore. There is disconnect in the way we design our streets and the way we want our drivers to behave. You may have often come across road signs that read: “speed thrills but kills”. But if we want people to drive slower, why do we design streets as racing tracks? Why do we have highways within cities that become barriers for people to cross? Why is an attempt to even slightly widen footpaths seen as an encroachment on space that “rightfully” belongs to motorists,” she added.Piyush Tewari, founder & CEO of SaveLIFE Foundation, said almost 72,000 pedestrians have lost their lives on Indian roads in the last three years, which points towards a dangerous trend. “In a bid to make roads safer for pedestrians, states must urgently implement the Motor Vehicles Amendment Act, 2019 and in particular, Section 138(1A) of the MVAA 2019, which deals with pedestrian safety. Since pedestrians have the first right of way on roads, there must be mandatory walking infrastructure for pedestrians and this must be incorporated at the stage of road design,” Tewari added.
03-12-2021||India||IITs record increase in placements, packages||Placement session across the Indian Institutes of Technology (IITs) witnessed institutes recording a significant increase in the number of jobs being offered with higher packages compared to last year. The session began on Wednesday.While the IIT-Delhi recorded a 45% jump in the number of jobs being offered to students on the first day, IIT-Madras witnessed a jump of 43% as compared to last year, officials said. At IIT Delhi, at least 60 offers of above ₹1 crore packages were made on day one. Similarly, at IIT Roorkee, a student received an annual package of ₹2.15 crore by an international tech firm and at IIT-Banaras Hindu University (BHU), one student secured an annual package of ₹2 crores, officials said. According to the IITs, the placement session was conducted virtually like last year because of the Covid-19 pandemic. The placement cycle in IITs spans from December to May. The first phase of the placement will conclude by mid-December. In a statement issued on Thursday, the IIT-Delhi said, “There has been over 45% increase in the number of offers received by the campus and over 35% increase in the indicative compensation offered by companies visiting on December 1, 2021, in comparison to last year.” The Institute witnessed over 400 placement offers, including pre-placement offers (PPOs), on Wednesday. “Around 180 PPOs, highest in the last five years, have been received as of now,” the Institute said. Similarly, IIT-Madras recorded 176 offers from 34 companies on day one. “This is higher than any of the preceding academic year and 43% more compared to the day one of last year when 123 offers were made by 22 companies,” the Institute said in a statement. The institute said that apart from these 176 offers, 231 PPOs were also made to students, taking the total number of offers being received to 407 by the end of the first session on day one. The first phase of placement in IIT-Madras is expected to continue till December 10. Similar trends were observed at other IITs. According to a statement issued by IIT-Mandi, the Institute witnessed a 13% rise in the average salary, a 16% rise in the median salary and a 9% rise in the maximum salary being offered to its students, as compared to last year. At IIT-Roorkee, the highest domestic package last year was ₹80 lakh, which increased to ₹1.8 crores this year. The highest international package offered shot up to ₹2.15 crore per annum this year from ₹69.05 lakh. Similarly, at IIT-Guwahati, 200 job offers were extended to its students, as compared to 158 offers made on the first day of last year’s session. At IIT-Banaras Hindu University (BHU), 232 students received offer letters from 55 companies with an average package of ₹32.89 lakh per annum and a minimum of ₹12 lakh. Explaining the reason behind the significant jump in placements despite the pandemic situation, Vinay Sharma, in charge, IIT-Roorkee Placement and Internship Cell, said the institute had made a strategy for placement season to suit the pandemic situation. “Pandemic has brought some directional changes in the placement scenario. We accordingly made our strategy for this placement season, wherein we tied up with the best of companies in sectors related to AI, software, networks, analytics, e-commerce, FMCG, quants, finance, manufacturing and others with a sincere focus on the core sector,” he said. “We deeply analysed the economic growth across the globe and accordingly collaborated with established growing firms, based on forecasting done by our team. With all the above strategies, we were able to do exceedingly well in international as well as domestic offers,” he added. Tushar Jain, advisor (career and placement cell) at IIT Mandi, said, “The pandemic has also changed the recruitment process entirely from in-person to virtual mode, which offered new ways and means of interacting to explore among the students and companies. Since students have undergone regular online classes and their exams, whether written or viva-voce, also went online, their performance was remarkable in this interaction. We may see the hybrid modus operandi of the recruitment process in the future.” 
03-12-2021||India||West Bengal: Calcutta high court quashes Pocso charges in assault case||The Calcutta high court quashed charges under the Protection of Children from Sexual Offences (POCSO) Act against a man from West Bengal’s Murshidabad district who was sentenced to four years in jail for pulling the dupatta (scarf) of a Class 12 student, proposing marriage and threatening to burn her with acid if she refused. The high court order, which was passed on November 11 by justice Bibek Chaudhuri, said the lower court failed to study the details of the alleged crime and apparent discrepancies in the statements made by the victim and her uncle who lodged the first complaint. The court said that even if the man had dragged the woman’s scarf, pulled her hand and proposed to her, it did not qualify as either sexual assault or sexual harassment.Justice Chaudhuri said that there were discrepancies in the date and time of the alleged crime as per the statements of the minor, the eyewitness was not examined and all other prosecution witnesses were found to be of little relevance.“In a criminal trial, the date of occurrence, time of occurrence and place of occurrence are the most vital pieces of evidence …If there is a deviation of the above-mentioned three facts, the entire case remains doubtful,” said the order.The accused, Nurai Sk alias Nurul Sk, was charged under Sections 354, 354 A (ii), 354B 506 and 509 of the Indian Penal Code and Sections 8 and 12 of the POCSO Act. He was sent to four years in jail by a lower court and later appealed against his conviction.“It is needless to say that the victim girl who was a student of Class 12, on the date of examination, might forget the date of occurrence but it is hard to believe that she also would forget the time when the incident took place…In view of such discrepancies, it is open for the court to consider the prosecution story with a pinch of salt,” the judge added.“Even assuming that the appellant has committed the alleged act of dragging ‘orna’ [scarf] and pulling hand of the victim and proposed her to marry, such act does not come within the definition of either sexual assault or sexual harassment. At best for the act of the accused, he may be held liable for committing offence under Section 354 A read with Section 506 of the Indian Penal Code,” the order said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/west-bengal-calcutta-high-court-quashes-pocso-charges-in-assault-case-101638472602369.html
03-12-2021||India||Use of drones by terrorists poses challenge: BSF chief||The repeated use of drones for dropping drugs, arms and ammunition by Pakistan-based terror organisations and smugglers into Indian territory is turning out to be challenge for the Border Security Force (BSF) and investigation agencies, according to officials familiar with the matter.According to BSF chief Pankaj Kumar Singh, the majority of drones (around 95%) carry narcotics from across the border. Singh on Tuesday said it was hard to intercept, stall and deactivate them all.
03-12-2021||India||India needs additional $1 trillion to achieve its climate goals: Govt to Rajya Sabha||New Delhi: India will require approximately $1 trillion by 2030 to achieve the India’s national goal on climate change which was announced at the Glasgow Climate Change Conference (COP 26) last month, the Union environment ministry informed the Rajya Sabha on Thursday.To be sure, the announcements made at Glasgow are not yet nationally determined contributions (NDCs). Under the Paris Agreement, India submitted its NDCs in 2015 with three quantifiable targets, and they remain the same.These included reducing the emissions intensity of its Gross Domestic Product (GDP) by 33 to 35% by 2030 from 2005 level; to achieve about 40% cumulative electric power installed capacity from non-fossil fuel-based energy resources by 2030; and to create an additional carbon sink of 2.5 to 3 billion tonnes of CO2eq through additional forest and tree cover by 2030.On top of these, PM Modi as part of India’s national statement announced on November 1 in Glasgow that: the country’s non-fossil energy capacity will reach 500 GW by 2030; it will meet 50% of its energy requirements with renewable energy by 2030; it will reduce its total projected carbon emissions by one billion tonnes between now and 2030; it will reduce the carbon intensity of its economy by 45% by 2030, over 2005 levels; and it will, by 2070, achieve the target of net zero emissions.India’s climate actions have so far been largely financed from domestic resources and as per preliminary estimates, and at least US $2.5 trillion (at 2014-15 prices) would be needed for the Paris NDCs. In addition, “it is estimated that additional announcements by India require additional climate financing requirements to the tune of approximately $1 trillion by 2030. India’s commitments balance the concerns and priorities of climate change, sustainable development including poverty eradication, and economic growth of the country,” the ministry’s reply said.HT had reported on November 10 from Glasgow that India’s NDC is likely to be conditional to delivery of climate finance.“The NDCs India announced in 2015 remain its NDCs. Whether India upgrades its NDCs and includes the new announcements remains to be seen. The new announcements are domestic goals for now. India has made a preliminary estimate of how much money India will need to achieve additional announcements which is substantial and in keeping with India’s commitment to ambitious climate action,” said former climate negotiator and ambassador, Manjeev Singh Puri responding to the Rajya Sabha reply.To a question on when India will phase out coal powered plants in India, the ministry said coal will stay a major source of energy in India. “India’s climate actions under Paris Agreement are nationally determined, and are undertaken in the context of equity, and common but differentiated responsibilities and respective capabilities in the light of national circumstances. Being an affordable source of energy with substantial reserve, coal is going to stay as major source of energy in the foreseeable future. Despite push for renewables, country will require base load capacity of coal-based generation for stability and also for energy security.”India managed to gain quite a few elements from COP 26. According to ministry’s reply to another question on positive outcomes at COP 26, the ministry said on markets carbon markets (Article 6 of the Paris Agreement) has been finally resolved in a balanced manner that takes into account the concerns of developing countries, including India. India, along with other developing countries, convinced developed countries to agree for a transition of pre-2020 (Kyoto era carbon credits). The conclusion of Article 6 lays the ground for participation of the private sector in the new carbon markets that will emerge under the Paris Agreement.On a question on why India is not a signatory to the global methane pledge, the ministry said in the context of food security, India’s methane emissions are “survival” emissions. The global methane pledge was proposed by the European Union and the United States of America at the Major Economies Forum on Energy and Climate on September 17 targeting at 30% reduction in global methane emissions from 2020 levels by 2030. The two predominant sources of methane emissions in India are enteric fermentation and paddy cultivation. These emissions result from the agricultural activities of small, marginal, and medium farmers across India, whose livelihood stands threatened by the methane pledge, the ministry said.Agriculture in developed countries is dominated by industrial agriculture. For India, methane emissions are ‘survival’ emissions and not luxury emissions, it argued.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/india-needs-additional-1-trillion-to-achieve-its-climate-goals-govt-to-rajya-sabha-101638472545191.html
03-12-2021||India||Param Bir Singh suspended for dereliction of duty||The Maharashtra government on Thursday suspended former Mumbai Police commissioner Param Bir Singh from service for alleged dereliction of duty and initiated disciplinary proceedings against the officer facing charges of extortion and corruption.An order issued by the state home department said the 1988-batch Indian Police Service (IPS) officer was suspended under section 3 and 4 of the All India Services (Discipline and Appeal) Rules 1969. While section 3 refers to suspension, section 4 pertains to subsistence, an allowance during the suspension period.The order, signed by deputy secretary Venkatesh Bhat and a copy of which HT has seen, mentioned four criminal cases against the former top cop on charges of corruption, extortion, violation of the Scheduled Caste and Scheduled Tribe (Prevention of Atrocities) Act at police stations in Marine Lines, Kalyan and Thane. Singh was appointed as director general of home guardson March 18after his removal as Mumbai Police commissioner on March 17 in the aftermath of explosives being found outside industrialist Mukesh Ambani’s residence, Antilia. He was absconding for six months before appearing before the police and a judicial commission on November 25 and 29, respectively. Chief minister Uddhav Thackeray, who was in hospital after surgery on November 12 and discharged on Thursday,cleared the proposal for the suspension on Wednesday. “Besides the criminal cases registered under various sections of Indian Penal Code, Param Bir Singh has also been found guilty of dereliction of duty in the Antilia explosives scare case. He remained absent from his duty without informing the state government and producing medical certificates. He did not even inform us after coming back last week. This has been a violation of the All India Services (Discipline and Appeal) Rules 1969,” a senior official in the home department said, seeking anonymity. Days after his removal as the top cop, the officer had written a letter to Thackeray, alleging that then home minister Anil Deshmukh had directed crime branch officials to collect ₹100 crore every month from businessmen in Mumbai. Deshmukh, who resigned later, has denied the charge. The inquiry commission looking into these allegations directed Singh to record his statement, but the IPS officer, who was virtually incommunicado since May, turned up only last week after the Supreme Court granted him relief from arrest.  According to the home department official cited above, as the state does not have the power to dismiss any IPS officer, it will submit a detailed report to the central government along with an inquiry report for further action.“We will send a detailed report on the charges faced by him and the outcome of the investigation. The decision whether to recommend his dismissal will be taken at an appropriate time,” the official added. The order also said that during the suspension period, Singh should not leave his headquarter, the office of DG Home Guard, without permission of the state director general of police.Besides Singh, deputy commissioner of police Parag Manere was also suspended under similar charges. During the period of Manere’s suspension his headquarter will be Nagpur SP office and he will not be able to leave it sans permission. Singh was found guilty in a departmental inquiry by additional chief secretary Debashish Chakrabarty for dereliction of duty.Mumbai court cancels proclamation order against Singh in extortion caseMeanwhile, the city’s Esplanade Court cancelled its proclamation offender order against Singh in an extortion case registered against him in suburban Goregaon.Additional chief metropolitan magistrate S B Bhajipale had on November 17 issued the proclamation order declaring former Singh as an absconder.However, after Singh appeared before the court last week, his lawyer moved an application seeking cancellation of the proclamation order.
03-12-2021||India||Bhaichung, Anju Bobby George among 7 new members of Mission Olympic Cell||Former hockey captain Sardar Singh, long-jump icon Anju Bobby George and Indian football legend Bhaichung Bhutia were among the seven new members of the Mission Olympic Cell (MOC), as the country looks to build on its success at the Tokyo Olympics, an official government release said on Wednesday. Shooting legend Anjali Bhagwat, badminton ace Trupti Murgunde, former hockey skipper and CEO of Olympic Gold Quest Viren Rasquinha, and table tennis star Monalisa Mehta were the other former athletes added to the MOC tasked to steer 2024 Paris Olympics preparation through the Target Olympics Podium Scheme (TOPS), an initiative of the sports ministry.“The inputs by former athletes in the incumbent MOC played a significant role in supporting the training and competition of the athletes who competed in Tokyo 2020 and won 7 medals & 19 in Para Olympic Games,” sports minister Anurag Thakur said.Olympian sailor and sports science specialist Malav Shroff, along with Athletics Federation of India (AFI) president Adile Sumariwalla and TOPS CEO Commodore Pushpendra Garg are also part of the MOC, which will be chaired by Sandip Pradhan, director-general of the Sports Authority of India (SAI).Narinder Dhruv Batra, Union minister Arjun Munda, Ajay Singh, and Brij Bhushan Sharan Singh will all be part of the MOC by virtue of being presidents of the Indian Olympic Association (IOA), Archery Association of India, Boxing Federation of India, and Wrestling Federation of India respectively.CEO and joint CEO of TOPS will act as the convenor and co-convenor of the MOC respectively. The executive director of the SAI teams department and ministry of youth affairs and sports (MYAS) will be part of the committee.MOC has been set up by the Sports Authority of India (SAI) to select athletes for financial assistance under the TOPS and prepare them for the Olympic Games. The MOC also focuses on the selection, exclusion, and retention of athletes, coaches, training institutes that can receive TOPS assistance.The Indian contingent returned with a record seven medals, including a historic athletics gold, from the Tokyo Olympics, followed by the para athletes’ stellar show at the ensuing Paralympics in the Japanese capital.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/bhaichung-anju-bobby-george-among-7-new-members-of-mission-olympic-cell-101638472362162.html
03-12-2021||India||7 states to use Zydus in adults for now: Centre||Zydus Cadila’s Covid-19 vaccine ZyCoV-D will initially be used in districts in seven states having low first dose coverage before it is rolled out nationwide, the Union health ministry said on Thursday.However, the world’s first DNA-based and needle-free Covid-19 vaccine, which is also the first to have been approved by India’s drug regulator for those aged 12 years and above, will only be administered to adults in the seven states for now, people familiar with the matter said.Also Read | Zydus Cadila to supply 10 million doses of Covid-19 jab to Centre by December: ReportThe seven states where ZyCoV-D will be administered in the first phase are Bihar, Jharkhand, Maharashtra, Punjab, Tamil Nadu, Uttar Pradesh and West Bengal.“Seven states (Bihar, Jharkhand, Maharashtra, Punjab, Tamil Nadu, Uttar Pradesh & West Bengal) where ZyCoV-D vaccine will be used initially may identify districts with high number of first dose left out for introduction of the vaccine,” the Union health ministry said in a statement.The national training for administering the vaccine has been completed, and the above mentioned states have been asked to plan sessions based on the needle-free PharmaJet injector and identify vaccinators to be trained for using it for vaccination, it added.On August 20, the Drugs Controller General of India granted emergency use authorization to ZyCoV-D but it is yet to be included in the vaccination drive.According to the company, the Centre has placed an order of one crore (10 million) doses of the vaccine.Meanwhile, Union health secretary Rajesh Bhushan reviewed the status and progress of the “Har Ghar Dastak” (door to door) campaign with health secretaries and National Health Mission (NHM) directors of the states and Union territories through a video-conference.The Centre’s month-long special vaccination drive, which began on November 3 and will continue till December 31, resulted in an 11.7% jump in second dose, and 5.9% increase in the first dose coverage. The campaign was launched with an aim to inoculate the entire population in poor-performing districts.“The ‘Har Ghar Dastak’ nation-wide Covid-19 vaccination campaign has resulted in a hike of 5.9% in the 1st dose coverage (till 30th Nov), and an appreciable jump of 11.7% in 2nd dose Covid-19 vaccination coverage during the campaign...,” the statement said.The cumulative number of Covid-19 vaccine doses administered in the country crossed 1,250 million doses on Thursday, of which, 791.3 million (84.3%) beneficiaries were vaccinated with the first dose and 458.2 million (49%) received the second dose, according to a provisional government report.
03-12-2021||India||Kejriwal vows quality education, aid for kin of slain soldiers in Punjab||Delhi chief minister and Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) convener Arvind Kejriwal on Thursday hit back at Punjab chief minister Charanjit Singh Channi over his “kaala angrez” (black Englishman) jibe, saying that this “dark-complexioned man doesn’t make false promises”.The Punjab CM had on Wednesday dubbed the AAP a party of “kaale angrez”, who are trying to take over Punjab after “chitte angrez” (British) were ousted from the country.Hitting back at Channi, Kejriwal said: “This time our (AAP) government will be formed in Punjab and this black person (Kejriwal) will fulfil all his promises. I do not make false declarations, because my intentions are clear and not false. Everyone knows whose intentions are false.”“My mothers and sisters like this ‘kala bhai’ (dark-complexioned brother). Everyone knows my intent is clear and everyone knows whose intent is bad,” Kejriwal told reporters at Sri Guru Ram Das Jee International Airport in Amritsar, before heading to Pathankot.He also accused the Punjab chief minister of abusing him for promising ₹1,000 a month to women in the state if AAP is voted to power. “I respect Channi sahab a lot. But, ever since I have announced that each woman in the state will be given ₹1,000 per month, he has been abusing me. A few days ago, he taunted me for wearing ordinary clothes, but I want to tell him I have no problem with this,” he said.“Yesterday, he told me that I am ‘kaala’ (dark complexioned). I agree my colour is dark. I tour every village and while out in the bright sun, my skin has got tanned. Like him, I don’t tour in helicopters,” he added. “My mothers and sisters like this ‘kaala bhai’ (dark-complexioned brother). Everyone knows my intent is clear and everyone knows whose intent is bad.”Later, at a ‘Tiranga Yatra’ in Pathankot, Kejriwal hailed the region as a land of heroes. “Pathankot and Gurdaspur have the highest number of recruits in the Indian Army and sacrifice their lives while defending the borders of the Nation,” he said.The party leaders said the rally, which started from the local Shaheed Bhagat Singh Chowk and ended at Dhangu Chowk on Dalhousie Road, is dedicated to unity, integrity and brave warriors.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/kejriwal-vows-quality-education-aid-for-kin-of-slain-soldiers-in-punjab-101638471944602.html
03-12-2021||India||Omicron cases in India: Share plan on booster Covid vaccine dose, opposition asks govt||In view of the threat from a new Covid-19 variant, Omicron, opposition parties on Thursday sought to know from the Centre about the roadmap for vaccination and clarity on booster dose, even as the government hailed Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s steps to combat the pandemic.In a discussion in the Lok Sabha on the Covid pandemic, opposition members flagged views on booster doses of vaccines for the elderly and those with co-morbidities and demanded that the government spell out its policy on the issue.Also Read | Serum Institute seeks DCGI nod for Covishield booster shot amid Omicron scare“What is the situation on booster doses, we want to know. The vaccination coverage should be scaled up further. If we could vaccinate 2.5 crore people on a single day on one occasion, why hasn’t it picked up to that level after that. The effort has to be sincere, and we are there to support the government,” Gaurav Gogoi, deputy leader of Congress in Lok Sabha, said.Speaking on similar lines, Trinamool Congress (TMC) member Kakoli Ghosh Dastidar said: “Why should our not elderly be given the booster dose?”Telangana Desam Party’s Jayadev Galla stressed on the need to take quick decisions on booster doses for the full-vaccinated and to vaccinate those below 18 years of age.Referring to Covid-19 vaccine exports, Galla said he is given to understand that about 25 million vaccines have been exported to various countries.Also Read | Policy on booster, additional Covid-19 vaccine doses in 2 weeks: Dr NK Arora“So, I request the health minister to immediately stop the vaccine exports and let the days of giving 2.5 crore vaccines in a single day come back, and continue to ramp up administering the vaccine,” he said.YSR Congress member Kumari Godetti Madhavi suggested utilising the unused stock of five to 10 million vaccine doses with the private sector for administering the booster doses to healthcare and frontline workers.Leader of Congress in the Lower House, Adhir Ranjan Chowdhury, asked the government to provide a roadmap for vaccinating all eligible adults against Covid-19 by December-end. In May, Union minister Prakash Javadekar had said that vaccination against Covid-19 in India will be completed by the end of the year.“What are you (the government) doing to vaccinate all eligible adults by December? Give the House a roadmap for vaccinating all eligible adults by December,” he said.Chowdhury also said that the new Omicron variant was proving to be a threat as it is the “most dangerous of all variants”.CPM member AM Ariff alleged that no one knows how much money was collected under the PM CARES Fund. He said the government issued Covid-19 vaccination certificates to all with the “smiling photograph of our prime minister”.“But actually we should have the picture of our honorable Supreme Court, without the intervention of which this government would have allowed pharma companies to loot state governments and people below 45 years by charging exorbitantly high and differential price for vaccines,” Ariff said.Shiv Sena leader Vinayak Raut also hit out at the Centre over its Covid management, and lamented that Parliament was discussing the issue 21 months after the outbreak of the disease and at a time when cases were on the decline. Referring to the Omicron variant of the virus, he demanded close coordination among state governments and the Centre.Meanwhile, Bharatiya Janata Party’s Jagdambika Pal said both Opposition and the Treasury benches sharing views on Covid was a step that reflected “strengthening of democracy”. He hailed the prime minister’s resolve to build an ‘Atmanirbhar Bharat’ following the Covid outbreak.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/omicron-cases-in-india-share-plan-on-booster-covid-vaccine-dose-opposition-asks-govt-101638471713956.html
03-12-2021||India||Winter session: Stalemate continues in Rajya Sabha over suspension of 12 MPs||New Delhi: On the fourth day of the ongoing winter session of Parliament, the Rajya Sabha concluded the proceedings with the passage of the Dam Safety Bill, but not before the Opposition staged a walkout during the first half of the day in protest against the chair’s decision of not allowing a discussion on inflation and for not permitting the leader of the opposition to raise the issue of suspension of 12 lawmakers.Also Read | Opposition lawmakers hold protest against suspension of Rajya Sabha membersThe House was adjourned nine minutes after convening for business on Thursday, when the opposition parties objected to Chairman M Venkaiah Naidu not giving Leader of Opposition, Mallikarjun Kharge, a chance to speak on the suspension of 12 lawmakers. When the House reconvened at 12 noon, the Opposition pressed Deputy Chairman Harivansh, who was in the chair, to drop the Question Hour and take up a discussion on inflation. A walkout by a clutch of Opposition parties, including the Congress, RJD, NCP and TRS ensued when the chair did not permit the discussion. The Trinamool Congress and DMK also walked out separately.With no end in sight to the stalemate between the government and the opposition, Naidu urged both sides to find a way to end the logjam over the suspension of 12 MPs. Both the government and the opposition have hardened their respective stance—the former insisting on an apology and the latter adamant on not complying. The suspended lawmakers also continued their sit-in protest outside the House.
03-12-2021||India||Omicron cases in India: Mandaviya meets airport officials over screening of passengers||Union Health Minister Mansukh Mandaviya on Thursday held a meeting with airport and port health officers as well as other authorities over screening and surveillance at all points of entries amid concerns over the new coronavirus variant ‘Omicron’, official sources said.The health ministry has been advising states and Union territories to keep a strict vigil and undertake surveillance of international passengers coming to the country through various airports.Testing of samples of international travellers coming from ‘at risk’ countries on the first day and of specified category of passengers on the eighth day needs to be scrupulously done, it had stressed.International passengers from at-risk countries are being advised to wait at airports till the report of the RT-PCR test is available.States/UTs have been asked to send all positive samples for genome sequencing to INSACOG labs (mapped with states) promptly and that the states should undertake contact tracing of positive individuals and follow up for 14 days.The new potentially more contagious B.1.1.529 variant was first reported to the World Health Organisation (WHO) from South Africa on November 24, and has been designated as a “Variant of Concern” by the global body, which named it “Omicron”.A “variant of concern” is the WHO’s top category of worrying COVID-19 variants.The health ministry had on Tuesday revised the guidelines for international arrivals which mandate that 2 per cent of the total flight passengers coming from countries which are not in the ‘at risk category’ will also be tested on random basis at the airports for COVID-19.Apart from that, travellers from countries, excluding those countries at risk, will be allowed to leave the airport and shall self-monitor their health for 14 days post arrival.Passengers originating or transiting from at-risk countries will have to undergo RT-PCR testing post arrival and will be required to wait for the results at the arrival airport before leaving or taking a connecting flight, according to the revised guidelines which came in effect from December 1.If tested negative, they will follow home quarantine for seven days and will undergo re-test on the 8th day of arrival in India, and if again negative, further self-monitor their health for next seven days, according to the Guidelines for International Arrivals (in supersession of all guidelines issued on the subject on and after November 28, 2021).However, if such travellers are tested positive, their samples should be sent for genomic testing at INSACOG laboratory network.They shall be managed at separate isolation facility and treated as per laid down standard protocol, including contact tracing, and the contacts of such positive case should be kept under institutional quarantine or at home quarantine monitored strictly by the concerned State Government as per laid down protocol.List of countries from where travellers would need to follow additional measures on arrival in India, including post-arrival testing are those in Europe, including The United Kingdom, besides South Africa, Brazil, Botswana, China, Mauritius, New Zealand, Zimbabwe, Singapore, Hong Kong and Israel.Besides, the airlines will allow boarding by only those passengers who have filled in their self declaration forms on the Air Suvidha portal and uploaded the negative RT-PCR test report.This test should have been conducted within 72 hours prior to undertaking the journey.International travellers arriving through seaports/land ports will also have to undergo the same protocol as above, except that facility for online registration is not available for such passengers currently, the guidelines added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/omicron-cases-in-india-mandaviya-meets-airport-officials-over-screening-of-passengers-101638471522334.html
03-12-2021||India||Mamata likely to join Akhilesh’s rath yatra in Lucknow||West Bengal chief minister and Trinamool Congress (TMC) president Mamata Banerjee is likely to join the Samajwadi Vijay Rath Yatra in Lucknow on in support of Akhilesh Yadav as the next chief minister of Uttar Pradesh, party officials in the privy of the matter said on Thursday.According to the party’s plan, three women leaders — Mamata, Samajwadi Party MP Jaya Bachchan, and former Kannauj MP and Akhilesh’s wife Dimple Yadav — will join Samajwadi Party president Akhilesh’s Vijay Yatra, the officials said, adding, that the SP will announce the date at “an appropriate time. This will possibly be the second time when Mamata campaigns for Akhilesh, the first being on November 16, towards the end of Akhilesh’s first term as the UP chief minister. Mamata had addressed a public meeting in support of the SP chief and against the Union government’s demonetisation decision. Mamata had held the meeting at the 1090 crossing in Lucknow within weeks of the demonetisation announcement.Akhilesh and Mamata have shared a bonhomie since the SP leader became the UP chief minister for the first time in 2012. The SP had supported the TMC in both the 2016 and the 2021 West Bengal assembly polls.“In the 2021 polls, our party MP Jaya Bachchan and the party’s national vice-president Kiranmoy Nanda had substantially campaigned for the TMC and our party had not contested the polls in the eastern state,” said a senior SP leader.Kiranmoy Nanda, the SP’s national vice-president, reportedly was instrumental in Mamata’s TMC-organised event taking place in Lucknow in 2016 and also the forthcoming one. Nanda is from West Bengal and had been a former minister there.Akhilesh launched his Vijay Yatra as part of the 2022 UP Assembly election campaign on October 13 from Kanpur (to Hamirpur). He then embarked on yatras in Hardoi, from Gorakhpur to Kushinagar, Ghazipur to Lucknow, and has recently finished the Banda-Mahoba-Lalitpur leg.
03-12-2021||India||Tejashwi meets Nitish Kumar, all-party meet on caste census in 4 days||Bihar chief minister Nitish Kumar has agreed to conduct a caste-wise population count in the state following the Centre’s refusal to hold a census of castes, leader of the opposition Tejashwi Yadav said on Thursday after meeting the CM along with a delegation.After the meeting, Yadav said the CM has assured that he will hold an all-party meeting within four days. “The meeting will decide how to hold the caste census and in what format,” he said. “We had sought an appointment with the CM yesterday. Today, a delegation comprising legislators of Yadav’s Rashtriya Janata Dal (RJD), Congress, Left parties and the AIMIM met him,” the RJD leader said.The Centre had refused to hold a caste census other than one meant for scheduled castes and tribes.Yadav said the CM had earlier promised a state-specific exercise if the Centre does not agree to include other castes in the Census schedule. “Now that the Centre has made its stand clear, we told the CM that it was time to fulfil his promise,” said the RJD leader.Yadav said opposition parties were expecting a statement on the matter during the ongoing session of the assembly, which did not happen. Replying to a question, he said, “We never doubted the chief minister’s commitment to a caste census. Both houses of the state legislature have passed unanimous resolutions, twice, in support of the demand. We met him to request that the process be expedited.”Citing the report of the Niti Aayog to drive home his demand for a caste census, Yadav said, “NITI Aayog report says 51% of the people are poor. We want to know who they are. No one should remain poor. A caste-based census is necessary for everyone to get benefits. No government has data and unless there is right data, there will be no proper development.”Yadav also sought to allay fears expressed by some leaders of the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) that a caste census might further sharpen the social divide.“It should not be seen in terms of caste discrimination. Those who have been left behind in society will be benefitted from this. On the contrary, it will facilitate targeted development of the weaker sections, leading to reduced disparity and greater social harmony,” said Yadav.
03-12-2021||India||Omicron cases in India: No travel curbs yet but rules tightened, says MEA||India said on Thursday that it has not imposed any travel curbs following the detection of the Omicron variant of the Coronavirus, though surveillance mechanisms and protocols have been intensified for travellers from at-risk countries.“This is a very evolving situation, and two cases [of the Omicron variant] have been confirmed in Karnataka,” external affairs ministry spokesperson Arindam Bagchi told a regular news briefing.Also Read | Two Omicron cases in Karnataka, infections mild“We don’t have travel curbs as such. Some countries have stopped flights from that region or countries they define vis-a-vis Omicron, We haven’t done that. We have instead intensified surveillance mechanisms and protocols for those who happen to come from at-risk countries and not just limited to Omicron,” he said.Travellers from at-risk countries have to take PCR tests on arrival and undergo seven-day home quarantine.Also Read | All contacts of India’s 1st Omicron patient test negative, not so for 2nd patientThere are 11 entries on the list of at-risk countries, which were identified on the basis of facts and evidence from health and regulatory authorities. The list existed prior to the identification of the Omicron variant and it is based on the incidence profile of Covid-19 in those countries.The list includes all countries in Europe, including the UK, South Africa, Brazil, Botswana, China, Mauritius, New Zealand, Zimbabwe, Singapore, Hong Kong, and Israel.Also Read | ‘No need to panic’, say govt, experts after Omicron cases in KarnatakaIndia, Bagchi said, has offered to provide medical supplies and vaccines to African countries and also cleared all requests for assistance from that region. “We stand ready to supply essential life-saving drugs, test kits, PPE kits, medical equipment and ventilators depending on the situation,” he said.India is also willing to look at deeper medical collaboration in areas such as genomic surveillance if any country in Africa makes such a request, he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/omicron-cases-in-india-no-travel-curbs-yet-but-rules-tightened-says-mea-101638471105888.html
03-12-2021||India||‘UP is much safer under BJP regime’: Shah slams Akhilesh||Ahead of elections in Uttar Pradesh next year, Union home minister Amit Shah lashed out at Samajwadi Party chief Akhilesh Yadav on Thursday over the latter’s claims that crime jumped in India’s largest state under the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP),Shah was addressing a joint rally in the politically crucial western part of the state with chief minister Yogi Adityanath, who accused the Opposition of not having a development agenda. “I have comparative data of crime under both governments. Akhileshji aap kahan se chashma laaye ho? (From where have you brought your glasses?),” the minister said.The minister said that dacoity in the state reduced by 70% and incidents of loot reduced by 69% under the present state government. Further, cases of murder dropped by 69% while that of dowry deaths fell by 22.5%, he said and added that the former CM must “go home and examine the data”.Shah was addressing a public meeting at Puwarka in Saharanpur district after virtually laying the foundation stone of Maa Shakumbhari State University.Also Read | Amit Shah lays stone for university in SaharanpurOn October 18, Yadav had attacked the state government, saying: “Under the BJP government, UP has made it to the first spot in ease of committing crime.” The SP chief was referring to an incident in which a lawyer was shot dead inside court premises in Shahjahanpur district. Yadav was CM of Uttar Pradesh between 2012 and 2017 before losing power to the BJP in a landslide.Shah said the people of western Uttar Pradesh faced terror by the mafia earlier but the Adityanath government had put an end to troubles by taking strict action against such criminals.“Mafia and criminals now surrender before police,” Shah said while heaping praises on the chief minister for creating an atmosphere free of fear and safe for women.Listing the achievements of the Narendra Modi-led government — effective abrogation of article 370 in Jammu and Kashmir, abolishing of the instant Triple Talaq and building of the Ram Temple in Ayodhya — Shah said the Prime Minister had done what no one else could do in the past 70 years. On the new university in district, Shah said it will ensure that young people in the district don’t have to move to other states for studies.“Earlier, people had to send their sisters and daughters outside to pursue studies because their parents feared for their security in the region. But now nobody has the courage to misbehave with daughters and sisters,” he said.Adityanath accused the opposition of not having a development agenda. “Uttar Pradesh, which was once known as a BIMARU state, is now actively contributing to the country’s development,” he added.BIMARU is a term coined in the mid-1980s from first letters of the states Bihar, Madhya Pradesh, Rajasthan, and Uttar Pradesh. Similar to the Hindi word ‘bimar’ (sick), it was used to refer to the poor economic conditions of those states at that time.Reacting to Shah’s remarks, SP state spokesperson Rajendra Chaudhary said: “From top to bottom, the BJP leadership lies. Under the BJP rule, the state for four-and-a-half years had been hogging headlines nationally for crimes. The government and its lies are exposed and people will throw this government out and bring in an SP government.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/up-is-much-safer-under-bjp-regime-shah-slams-akhilesh-101638471104360.html
03-12-2021||India||Opposition rift widens with potshots at Congress brass||A tussle between the Congress and its one-time ally Trinamool Congress (TMC) over leadership of the Opposition intensified on Thursday with the former criticising Bengal chief minister Mamata Banerjee and TMC’s poll strategist Prashant Kishor saying no one had the “divine right” to lead the grand old party.The war of words came a day after Banerjee launched an unprecedented, though veiled, attack on the Congress and said the Congress-led United Progressive Alliance (UPA), a political coalition that was in power for 10 years and one she was a part of, didn’t exist anymore. She also said that if someone stayed abroad “half the time” and wasn’t on the field, the BJP will “bowl you out”,ostensibly a reference to Congress leader Rahul Gandhi.Her comment was seen as adding to the TMC’s recent attempts to aggressively expand its national footprint, keep the Congress at bay by forging an alliance of regional parties, and emerge as a national alternative to the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP). On Thursday, Kishor, widely credited for the TMC’s victory in the Bengal assembly election in May, appeared to expand on the idea. “The IDEA and SPACE that #Congress represents is vital for strong opposition. But Congress’ leadership is not the DIVINE RIGHT of an individual especially, when the party has lost more than 90% elections in last 10 years,” he tweeted. “Let opposition leadership be decided democratically,” he added. The comments marked a reversal from September, when he was in advanced negotiations to join India’s principal opposition party. The Congress hit back immediately. “Hell hath no fury like a strategist scorned,” said the party’s national spokesperson Pawan Khera.Later in the day, party general secretary Randeep Surjewala launched a more frontal attack on Banerjee and accused her of speaking different languages at different times. He recalled that the Bengal CM was an ally of the BJP in the past.“For her, it can be political expediency, but for us fighting the BJP and RSS is close to us,” he said.“Is Mamata not doing the same as Modi ji is doing. Modi ji is buying legislators and so is Mamata ji. Modi ji is breaking parties and so is Mamata ji doing in breaking parties,” he added.Banerjee and the Congress leadership enjoyed a warm personal relationship and both parties even fought assembly elections in alliance but ties dipped sharply in recent months as the TMC signalled its national ambitions, entering the electoral space in Goa, Tripura and most recently, Meghalaya. On the other hand, the Congress was roiled by the exit of prominent leaders and internal disagreements over the direction in which the party is headed.In the last three months, the TMC engineered high-profile defections from the Congress, including former Goa chief minister Luizinho Faleiro and ex-Assam MP Sushmita Dev, and refused to accept the Congress as the natural leader of any Opposition challenge to the BJP. Last week, the TMC poached 12 lawmakers from the Congress in Meghalaya, including former CM Mukul Sangma, leapfrogging to the principal opposition party’s position in the northeastern state. Kishor is seen as the primary architect of the TMC’s political manoeuvres. On Wednesday, Banerjee said that there was no UPA left in the country and made a pitch for unifying opposition parties to take on the BJP. She was accompanied during the media interaction by Nationalist Congress Party (NCP) chief Sharad Pawar.The Congress dismissed her remarks. “Without the Congress, the UPA will be a body without a soul. Time to show opposition unity,” tweeted senior Congress leader Kapil Sibal, without referring to Banerjee’s comment.Kishor and the Congress, for whom the strategist worked in 2017, also share a tumultuous history. According to people familiar with the matter, talks between Kishor and the Congress broke down three months ago amid resistance from a significant part of the party to Kishor’s demands. Kishor responded to a request for comment with a smiley emoji. Two senior Congress leaders said Kishor had a set of demands for his entry in the Congress. “He wanted to be a member of the Congress Working Committee, the top executive body and be appointed as general secretary election planning of the AICC,” said a senior leader, who is also an MP. Neither was an issue; the Congress has seen lateral entries at senior levels: K Raju, an IAS-officer turned Rahul Gandhi aide, and Praveen Chakravarthy, the chief of data analytics department, and a few others. “But he also proposed that starting from the booth level right up to the state unit level of the Congress there would be a parallel structure exclusively to handle elections. This raised a lot of questions,” said the second leader. The first leader added that timing may have been an issue; Kishor said he would start working with the Congress after the Uttar Pradesh and Punjab elections -- which are scheduled for early next year. “Several leaders also questioned why he wanted to start working for the Congress after the UP and Punjab elections—top priorities for the party.” There was also distrust. “Some questioned whether he could be trusted to stay with the Congress when he was in demand from many parties such as TMC, DMK, YSRCP.” Both leaders did not want to be identified. “Four months back, in August , Congress president Sonia Gandhi sought the opinion of each and every CWC member on Kishor’s proposal. Many senior leaders felt that the structure that PK proposed might run parallel to the AICC-appointed hierarchy in the states,” said a third leader, a senior member of the CWC, who spoke on condition of anonymity. On July 13, Kishor met both Rahul Gandhi and Priyanka Gandhi Vadra. A month later, he quit as political advisor to then Punjab chief minister Captain Amarinder Singh. Kishor earlier worked with Rahul Gandhi when he was in charge of the Congress’ unsuccessful campaign (in partnership with the Samajwadi Party) in Uttar Pradesh in 2017. Kishor shot to fame after he was involved in Narendra Modi’s campaign in 2014. His reputation as poll strategist sky-rocketed after Banerjee won her third term as the CM. Kishor predicted that the BJP will not cross 100 seats (it won 77 seats) in the election. 
03-12-2021||India||December 2: What we know about Omicron so far||The big questions -- whether the newest variant of concern (VOC) is more transmissible, more resistant to vaccine or past infection immunity, or more virulent – are likely to take some time to be answered. To determine these, experts will need to wait for adequate epidemiological and clinical data. At the least, cases need to be watched for three weeks, the time by when infections usually completely resolve or take a turn for the worse. For now, there are only two approximate knowns with the Omicron variant: first, it is almost certainly out-competing the Delta variant; and second, evolutionarily, it has taken a much farther leap than variants typically have. Late on Wednesday, the Network for Genomic Surveillance in South Africa (NGS-SA) released new details about their surveillance of Sars-Cov-2 variants, including findings specific to Omicron that they first sequenced in a sample collected on November 8.Much still remains unknown about the variant of concern (VOC), but the new report strengthens one of the earliest assumptions: Omicron is likely displacing Delta, the VOC that led to India’s devastating summer surge and is at present triggering hotspots of outbreak in much of Europe. From no sequences in October, Omicron accounted for 74% of the 249 genotyped samples by NGS-SA. In the same period, Delta prevalence plummeted from 83% to 22% of the samples.The switch is almost identical to what happened in May and June, when the then prevalent variant, Beta, dropped from being found in 65% of the samples to 18% in a span of 30 days, while Delta accounted for 66%, after being found in 16% of samples in the month before. Delta went on to displace Beta and trigger a new wave in South Africa, and it appears Omicron is on a similar course. Overall, South Africa’s case numbers doubled daily for the last two days.Beyond that, scientists are reluctant to draw any conclusions – and with good reason: There has to be more evidence. That brings is to the second known: there are 45-52 changes in the variant’s entire genome, with 26-32 in the Spike protein alone. In contrast, Delta has 15-17, and Alpha has 23 mutations. They each have unique combinations, but they share the characteristic of being significantly more transmissible (as opposed to being significantly more resistant like the Beta variant). The number of mutations, then, is unlike any seen before, and scientists note that there are many changes that have not been observed in any other variant at all – one of them being the fact that there are two mutations surrounding what is known as the furin-cleavage site, the portion of the pathogen that essentially activates the spike to cleave into two and infect a human cell. Answering the top three questions is crucial for what Omicron means for the pandemic in the immediate term. But what the VOC says about the future of the pandemic needs a different answer: How did Omicron arise? In a Twitter thread on Wednesday, immunologist and Scripps Research professor Kristian G Andersen said there could be three main possibilities: the variant was in undetected circulation, quietly picking up mutations over a long period; it developed in a person with a chronic infection; and it came from an animal. Each of these possibilities will mean something else for the pandemic. Andersen says he believes it is unlikely, and other scientists have separately made similar remarks. Even in low resource regions such as Africa, experts believe such a fast-spreading variant would have shown up in surveillance in other countries sooner. But if it did circulate in a region, likely with low testing and vaccination coverage, it spotlights a risk vaccine equity activists have been flagging for long: the world is setting up a catastrophe if it does not fix the imbalance in supplies. Every time the virus replicates, it has some errors – or mutations. In a chronically infected person, this process is far long drawn than in regular cases; most people clear out the virus in 10-14 days. But when the pathogen is in a tug-of-war with the immunity, the copies that have the “fittest” mutations survive, likely being passed on to others. The Alpha variant, which has one of the largest numbers of mutations after Omicron, is believed to have formed in a chronically ill, immunocompromised person in the UK, who was also possibly exposed to convalescent plasma.Experts have called on helping people with immune deficiencies secure antivirals and monoclonal antibody therapies.Andersen, in his opinion, identifies this as having a high likelihood. “I slightly favour reverse zoonosis for a few reasons... SARS-CoV-2 is a generalist virus and we have seen human>animal>human transmission happen in e.g, mink... “Several of the mutations in Omicron have been observed in animals, including rodents,” he wrote. Essentially, Andersen argues that the fact that some of mutations seen when the virus multiplied in animals are also in Omicron, which could be the proverbial smoking gun in the mystery of Omicron’s origin. If this is the case, the world will need to increase surveillance on animal-human transmission, and the threat of animal reservoirs could have distinct implications for future flare-ups. 
03-12-2021||India||Omicron cases in India: Country well-covered, no need to panic, say experts||India may be in a unique position in terms of immunity compared to other countries with fewer proportions of people vaccinated or infected in the past, according to experts, who backed the government’s appeals for the public to avoid panic over the Omicron variant.Also Read | Two Omicron cases in Karnataka, infections mildIndia detected the first known infections with the Omicron variant of Sars-Cov-2, which has triggered alarm in several countries after infections surged rapidly in a South Africa province and genome analysis showed an unprecedented number of mutations. But it is still not established if the variant can defeat immunity from vaccines or past exposure to the virus, or if it leads to more serious disease.“At this point there is no reason to panic as Indians are well placed immunologically because of the high sero prevalence found in surveys that could be due to natural infection or vaccine-derived. A majority of the population at the moment has antibodies,” said Dr Amita Jain, professor and head of microbiology department, King George’s Medical University in Lucknow.Also Read | All contacts of India’s 1st Omicron patient test negative, not so for 2nd patientDr Gagandeep Kang, one of the top vaccine experts in India, said: “Natural infection plus vaccination together provides the broadest possible protection; therefore, in that way, Indians are very well covered. There is no need to panic as now we have tools that we did not have before—drugs and vaccines, which can be quickly updated if needed. The strategy should be watch, track and measure.”Researchers in South Africa and several other countries are conducting studies to better understand the variant, and are regularly sharing findings.The new variant is heavily mutated, with up to 32 mutations in the spike protein alone.The World Health Organization, which classified the variant as being of concern last week, is carrying out and coordinating several studies to determine the threat Omicron poses.“Preliminary data suggests that there are increasing rates of hospitalisation in South Africa, but this may be due to increasing overall numbers of people becoming infected, rather than a result of specific infection with Omicron…,” said WHO in an update on Omicron.Also Read | Omicron alert: WHO South-East regional director advises increased surveillanceInterim analysis also seems to suggest that most of the symptoms seen are mild.“Yes what is seen globally is that most cases are either asymptomatic or with mild symptom, but it will be too early to establish a trend as the sample size is comparatively smaller. More studies are being done and we need to look at further evidence that gets generated,” said Dr SK, Singh, director, National Centre for Disease Control.Experts also say the real-world data out till now suggests Omicron may not be that big a problem.“The evidence so far doesn’t seem to support the variant causing either more severe disease or escaping immune responses. While computational analysis that shows more than 30 mutations due to which it may escaping the antibodies but in real world it may not escape all the antibodies. It isn’t very wise right now to predict immune evasiveness,” said Jain.Anurag Agrawal, director, CSIR- Institute of Genomics and Integrative Biology, said: “That Omicron would have reached in India in November was almost guaranteed. Nothing has changed by actually sequencing and confirming. There is no need to panic; just [need] to continually assess risks in a scientific manner and to be prepared.”WHO also said that the detection of Omicron in India was not unexpected as people these days travel extensively to other countries.“The confirmation of Omicron Variant of Concern today by India, the first two cases in WHO South-East Asia Region, was not unexpected in view of the interconnected world that we live in. This emphasizes on the need for all countries to step up surveillance, to be on alert and rapidly detect any importation and take measures to curtail further spread of the virus,” said Poonam Khetrapal Singh, regional director of WHO South-East Asia.“The response measures for all variants, including Omicron, is the same as that for Sars-Cov-2. Comprehensive and tailored public health and social measures by governments, and strict adherence to preventive and precautionary measures by individuals, is a must. People must wear well-fitting mask which covers their nose and mouth well, keep distance, avoid poorly ventilated or crowded spaces, keep hands clean, cover cough and sneeze and get vaccinated. And continue to take all precautionary measures even after getting vaccinated. All travellers must adhere to public health and social measures at all times and remain vigilant for signs and symptoms of COVID-19,” she added.
03-12-2021||India||Two Omicron cases in Karnataka, infections mild||Two men in Karnataka tested positive for the Omicron variant of the Sars-Cov-2, Union government officials said on Thursday, and added that there was no need to panic since at least these two individuals had “very mild” symptoms.The government did not give further details, such as their vaccination status, in the interest of their privacy, but officials in Karnataka said the younger of the two men, who were unrelated, was a health care worker without a travel history.Also Read | Don’t delay getting fully vaccinated: Centre after Omicron cases found in India“Two cases of Omicron have been found positive: a 66-year-old male, and a 46-year-old male. We got the results very late last night,” said Lav Agarwal, joint secretary, Union ministry of health and family welfare, during a press briefing on Covid-19 on Thursday.“It is being investigated how the second person got the infection; he could be a contact of the 66-year-old but that is still under investigation. The foreign national has flown out, and the second person is on road to recovery,” said a senior government official aware of the matter, on condition of anonymity.
03-12-2021||India||Import ban on specific weapons can be lifted for urgent needs: Govt||NEW DELHI: The defence ministry will allow the armed forces to import weapons and systems that figure on the government’s list of defence items under an import ban if domestic industry can’t supply the military hardware within the stipulated time-frame and in the required quantity, according to a government note on the matter. The note, issued by the department of military affairs (DMA) last month, said specific cases for weapons import to meet immediate requirements could also be taken up if inadequacies in indigenous equipment could put soldiers in harm’s way. The approval for such specific cases of import will be based on the recommendations of a new empowered monitoring panel, the Defence Indigenisation Committee (DIC), being set up under chief of defence staff General Bipin Rawat who also holds the charge of secretary, DMA. HT has reviewed the note. Experts said the move was aimed at keeping the armed forces operationally ready to take on any challenge. “It’s the right step because developing technology and building capability to produce modern weapons and systems locally can take time. In the interim, we may have to import to offset our inadequacies,” said former Northern Army commander Lieutenant General BS Jaswal (retd). DIC has also been empowered to clear cases arising out of technical complications such as Indian firms not responding to specific military tenders. It will oversee the implementation of the positive indigenisation list (items under an import ban) and provide further thrust to the indigenous development of military hardware. “The committee besides formulation of positive indigenisation lists will, inter alia, be responsible for reviewing progress of listed equipment, platforms and weapons, and to apply correctives where required so as to ensure that the listed items translate into production/ developmental orders,” the note added. The government is encouraging self-reliance is the defence manufacturing sector through several policy decisions including notifying 209 defence items that cannot be imported, increasing foreign direct investment limit from 49% to 74% and creating a separate budget for locally-made military hardware. The ban on the 209 items, to be implemented progressively till 2025, covers artillery guns, missile destroyers, ship-borne cruise missiles, light combat aircraft, long-range land attack cruise missiles, basic trainer aircraft, and different types of helicopters.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/import-ban-on-specific-weapons-can-be-lifted-for-urgent-needs-govt-101638470741525.html
03-12-2021||India||What do corporate results tell us about the nature of the economic recovery?||India’s GDP grew at 8.4% in the quarter ending September, indicating a return to pre-pandemic levels. Headline GDP numbers, however, tell us little about the nature of economic growth. An HT analysis of latest quarterly results (30 September) from the Centre for Monitoring Indian Economy’s (CMIE) Prowess database sheds more light on this question. There are 2403 companies in the Prowess database for which September quarter results are available along with quarterly results for last five years. Here are five things which stand out.There is almost a V-shaped recovery in sales growthAfter having fallen in the June quarter, perhaps because of the second wave of Covid-19, inflation adjusted sales have risen again in the September quarter. A slightly longer-term view of the revenue trend suggests that corporate India has experienced a V-shaped recovery. To be sure, this trend might change when results for a larger sample of companies are available. There were 4783 companies for which annual results are available for five years ending 2020-21. But this recovery is driven by large firmsNot all companies have had the good fortune of a V-shaped recovery. This can be seen clearly if one classifies companies by revenue-size. A distribution by volumne of sales shows that companies with quarterly sales below ₹100 crore have actually seen a fall in their September revenues when compared to September 2020. The shortfall is even greater when a comparison with September 2019 is made. In fact, the data shows that the fall in sales of smaller companies started even before the pandemic. There’s also a divergence between recovery in profits and wagesThe faster recovery of big companies over their smaller peers is not the only unequal feature of ongoing recovery in corporate India. Even more stark is the divergence between trajectories of profits and salaries. For the 2403 companies analysed, inflation-adjusted salaries have increased by just 4% between September 2019 and September 2021. This number is 300% for profits after tax. To be sure, an important reason for this exceptionally high growth in profit after taxes is the sharp reduction in corporate tax rates in September 2019, when the government slashed tax rates for domestic manufacturers from 30% to 22%, while for new manufacturing companies; the rate was reduced from 25% to 15% provided they do not claim any exemptions. The growth in profits before taxes for this set of companies between September 2019 and September 2021 is 158%. And a fall in wage costs for most firms even as profits improvedWhich category of firms and workers borne the maximum brunt due to the Covid-19 pandemic? Am analysis by size of total sales in the September quarter can help answer this.Workers working in the biggest companies (quarterly sales above ₹500 crore) were the only ones that saw their inflation adjusted salaries rise above pre-pandemic (September 2019) levels. On a year-on-year basis real salaries improved from September 2020 levels for companies with sales above ₹25 crore. The worst affected workers were employed in the smallest companies, data shows.The relation between profit growth and company size, however, is not as linear as the wage-sales relationship. When read with the fact that sales growth for smaller companies has not been as strong as the larger ones, this suggests cost-cutting to boost profits.  Input costs rise as businesses reopenWith the reopening of major economies in the second quarter, prices for most commodities used as raw materials have risen in global markets due to an increase in demand even as supply chains struggled. The effect of this is also visible in the latest quarterly results. Out of 1369 manufacturing firms, raw material cost data is available for 1295 for the last five years. While inflation adjusted raw material expenses for these firms were showing negative growth over the two-year period till June, this has now risen by 13% in the September quarter compared to 2019.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/what-do-corporate-results-tell-us-about-the-nature-of-the-economic-recovery-101638470685342.html
03-12-2021||India||Proposals sent to Saudi Arabia, 9 other nations for air bubble agreement: Scindia||New Delhi India has sent a proposal to 10 more countries, including Saudi Arabia, for operating flights under the air bubble agreement, the Union government told Parliament on Thursday. India currently has such agreements with 31 countries.“We have 10 proposals pending for the air bubble agreement. We have forwarded the proposals to these countries. Saudi Arabia is one of them. We are waiting to hear from them,” Union civil aviation minister Jyotiraditya Scindia said in a reply to Indian Union Muslim League (IUML) MP ET Mohammed Basheer’s question in the Lok Sabha.Also Read | India has discussed air bubble with Saudi Arabia: GovernmentInternational passenger flights are currently being operated in a restricted manner under bilateral air bubble arrangements with various countries.While the Centre had recently decided to resume normal international flight operations from December 15, the plan had to be postponed amid fears over the new variant of coronavirus, Omicron.Also Read | India defers resumption of international flights with an eye on Covid variants“We are making all efforts to normalise the situation but due to Omicron, currently we have our air bubble agreement with 31 countries and we have sent proposals to 10 more countries to have the bubble agreement,” Scindia told the Lower House on the fourth day of the ongoing winter session of Parliament.“Omicron is certainly a setback because all countries across the world need to be safe and secure. That is our first priority and, therefore, different countries have put in place different yardsticks. I think, the yardstick that has been put in place by our government by putting 11 countries marked as ‘at risk’ and testing them completely is the right way to go,” Scindia said while replying to the Congress’s Manish Tewari.The 11 countries marked as ‘at risk’ are the United Kingdom, South Africa, Brazil, Botswana, China, Mauritius, New Zealand, Zimbabwe, Singapore, Hong Kong and Israel.The minister also said that the government has begun monitoring the situation at airports across the country and is prepared to fight the new Covid variant.“We have commenced testing for all arrivals from yesterday (Wednesday). Passengers have to undergo seven days’ home quarantine and then get tested on the eighth day. They will be monitored for another seven days and then they are free to move around. We are fully prepared and are ready for the war against the virus,” Scindia said.“Our estimate is from these 11 ‘at risk’ countries around 11 airports have arrivals and 17 airports are not at risk. Our study says that around 8,500 passengers arrive from those 11 airports and so we have made available RT-PCR as well as rapid RT-PCR tests for passengers. Around 5,500 tests were done at 36 airports on Wednesday,” he added.Minister of state, civil aviation, (Gen) VK Singh said 7,900 employees in domestic aviation had lost their jobs in a year between March 31, 2020 and March 31, 2021 due to Covid-19. Around 13,300 employees in ground handling activities also lost their jobs during the same period, however, 380 additional staff were hired in the cargo area, Singh said while replying to Biju Janta Dal (BJD) MP Bhartruhari Mahtab in the Lok Sabha.Singh also informed Parliament that the Airports Authority of India (AAI) was working on a project of a facial recognition technology (FRT)-based biometric boarding system as part of the first phase of Digi Yatra Implementation at four airports, including Varanasi, Pune, Kolkata, and Vijayawada.FRT has not yet been introduced at any of the airports in India and the proposed Digi Yatra Central Ecosystem is planned to go live in March 2022, he added..||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/proposals-sent-to-saudi-arabia-9-other-nations-for-air-bubble-agreement-scindia-101638470624398.html
03-12-2021||India||HTLS 2021 — Hybrid court proceedings now a warrant of the time: Former CJI Dipak Misra||No individual should remotely be regarded as an object of “chemical experimentation” since legitimate expectations of every citizen have to be met in a constitutional democracy, said former chief justice of India (CJI) Dipak Misra on Thursday.Ascribing a pivotal role to the judiciary as being the final arbiter of the Constitution, justice Misra emphasised that the emerging world order calls for a constitutional democracy to adorn its expected role for effective implementation of constitutional rights.“It is the obligation of the courts to see that such rights are not even slightly affected or dented,” said the former CJI, who gave the Indian judiciary one of its finest moments by churning out landmark verdicts on gender equality, decriminalising homosexuality, and guarding free speech among a host of decisions that form the bedrock of citizens’ aspirations in a democracy.Addressing the 19th edition of the Hindustan Times Leadership Summit, justice Misra added: “The judiciary, while performing its most important function of being the final arbiter of the Constitution, has acted as the protector of rights guaranteed under the Constitution by embarking upon the journey of fruitful engagement. The legitimate expectations of a citizen under the Constitution have to be met and no individual should remotely be regarded as an object of chemical experimentation.”Underscoring the function of the Supreme Court and high courts in a meaningful democracy, the former judge said that the constitutional courts have assumed the role of ardent guards for strengthening the rights and this shaped the process of judicial statesmanship.“This sense of creativity is the order of the day and it is not to be marginalised by any competitive conservative perception,” said justice Misra as he spoke on the theme ‘Changing dynamics of law and the new world order”.While serving 13 eventful months at the helm of the judiciary till his superannuation in October 2018, justice Misra was instrumental in allowing entry for women of all ages into the Sabarimala temple, recognising the right of choice of an adult individual to marry, abolishing adultery as a crime, decriminalising homosexuality, and upholding Aadhaar’s constitutional validity.The former judge maintained that constitutional rights are ever growing so as to enrich the future life of its citizenry and to be compatible with the changing needs of the society.“The discussion about free will and freedom bear a direct relation to one’s right to affirm to one’s gender identity... the right to choose and the right to self-determination have been recognised as aspects of human dignity. It is also emphasised that in some circumstances like that of affirming one’s gender identity, it is an integral part of human dignity that will sustain the individuality of an individual,” added justice Misra, acknowledging the approach adopted by the Supreme Court in recognising some of the most important fundamental rights.“Therefore, modern constitutional thinking crafts principles that same-sex relationship is not a criminal offence; live-in relationship is not illegal; a major has a right to marry according to his or her choice and no one should intervene; the inter-religious or inter-caste marriages are to be respected if it is with consent; the khap panchayats should keep themselves at bay; no one can take law unto his own hands and engage in mob lynching,” highlighted the former CJI.Citing the expansive approach of the apex court in broadening and strengthening fundamental rights of people, justice Misra underlined some recent verdicts that held that a filmmaker or author can express his ideas and a law cannot accept a provision to be valid if it has chilling effect on freedom of speech and expression; women are entitled to join the National Defence Academy and are eligible to Permanent Commission into the Army; and to establish an offence under POCSO (Protection of Children from Sexual Offences Act), skin-to-skin contact is not relevant.Notably, many of the judgements referred to by justice Misra were authored by him during his tenure as a Supreme Court judge.“Constitutional rights define and shape the life of citizens and the society in general. Their affirmative exposition and meaningful appreciation constitute the lifeblood of citizenry aspirations,” said justice Misra, coining the term “transformative constitutionalism” and explaining it by saying: “Constitutional rights have to be construed and developed in such a manner that their real intent and existence percolate to the lowest rungs in the society.”Recognising the paradigm shift the pandemic has brought about by allowing litigants to access courts virtually and the new arrangement of online dispute resolution, the former CJI said: “The openness of mind to accept the idea would be the real adaptation of the new order. Of course, while saying so, I am absolutely conscious of the fact that physical hearings can never be dispensed with. However, both can coexist to mark the manifestation of the new order since adaptation of the new technology has become the warrant of the time. It would redefine access to justice, which is a fundamental right under the Constitution.”Justice Misra also mentioned the use of technology for online dispute resolution (ODR), saying the new arrangement should be accepted with an open mind as it is in challenging times that innovations are made and technology can be used as a transformational tool.“In the emerging world order, the significance of Alternative Dispute Resolution (ADR) has risen and the Covid-19 pandemic has enabled the disputants to take recourse to Online Dispute Resolution (ODR). The present pandemic conditions have brought in private dispute resolution centres and courts around the world have embraced technology-based approach and adequate protocols have been allowed entry to make video-conferencing-enabled participation in proceedings,” he said.The former CJI implored the new generation to be forward-looking and receptive to all new ideas.“The new generation, I am absolutely indubitable, will not allow the path of progress to be paralysed. They shall not permit any dent or allow any decay; and move on the path of progressive purpose without giving any room to pointlessness,” said the judge, concluding his address at the summit.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/htls-2021-hybrid-court-proceedings-now-a-warrant-of-the-time-former-cji-dipak-misra-101638470083818.html
03-12-2021||India||Gautam Adani meets CM Mamata; investments, business summit on agenda||Business tycoon Gautam Adani met West Bengal chief minister Mamata Banerjee at Nabanna, the secretariat, on Thursday evening and held discussions on investments in the state, said officials aware of the development. The meeting went on for around 90 minutes. Banerjee, who invited Prime Minister Narendra Modi to inaugurate the Bengal Global Business Summit in Kolkata on April 20 during her visit to Delhi on November 24, invited Adani to attend the summit. Adani, whose current net worth according to the Bloomsberg Billionaires Index is 74.3 billion US dollars, agreed to attend the event.“Delighted to meet @MamataOfficial, Hon’ble Chief Minister Mamata Banerjee. Discussed different investment scenarios and the tremendous potential of West Bengal. I look forward to attending the Bengal Global Business Summit (BGBS) in April 2022,” Adani tweeted on Thursday evening. He also posted a photograph of the meeting. India’s richest business tycoon, Mukesh Ambani, attended the summit in the past and has been invited again. Bengal government officials said Banerjee assured Adani, who heads the Ahmedabad-based multinational conglomerate that a trouble-free business environment would be ensured by her administration. The discussions also included the sea port project that the government is developing with help from the Centre. In recent years, the opposition Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) has accused the Trinamool Congress (TMC) government of ruining the state’s economy and failing to draw investments despite the chief minister’s repeated trips to foreign shores. Governor Jagdeep Dhankhar, too, has demanded a white paper from the government on actual investments made after the last business summits. Reacting to Adani’s meeting with the chief minister Bengal BJP’s chief spokesperson Samik Bhattacharya said such meetings will turn fruitful only when the government changes its attitude and outlook. “We always want development in West Bengal. But investments will come only when the law and order situation improves and business groups are not subjected to extortion. Till that happens, Banerjee will only play to the gallery,” said Bhattacharya.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/gautam-adani-meets-cm-mamata-investments-business-summit-on-agenda-101638469903348.html
03-12-2021||India||HTLS 2021 — Reversing ageing, controlling weight key for saving lives: Dr Valter Longo||New Delhi: Nutrition is the most powerful way to alter how fast we age, and may be the key factor that determines whether or not we develop age-related diseases, said one of the world’s foremost biogerontologist and cell biologist, as he offered links that connect our food to living a long and healthy life.The insight was shared by Dr Valter Longo, professor, gerontology and biological sciences, and director of the Longevity Institute at the USC Leonard Davis School of Gerontology, Los Angeles, during a session on the third day of the Hindustan Times Leadership Summit on Thursday.“We can argue, based on over 100 years of research, that nutrition is by far the most powerful way to alter how fast we age, and also alter whether we will develop age-related disease like diabetes, cancer, cardiological and neurodegenerative diseases,” he said, adding that reversing ageing and controlling weight is crucial for saving lives not only from dozens of disease, but also from Covid-19.“The risk of dying from Covid increases hundredfold based on whether you are 20 years old or over 80 years old. There is also a big difference in mortality risk from Covid based on whether people have age-related diseases like cardiovascular, diabetes, respiratory disease, hypertension or cancer,” he said, highlighting the importance of regulating the impacts of ageing and the minimising the risks associated with it.Longo, who has pioneered the research on the role of nutrition on cellular protection from ageing and diseases, was in conversation with health communications specialist Sanchita Sharma.He has developed a fasting-mimicking diet (FMD) — a low-calorie meal programme that mimics the effects of periodic fasting or water fasting over the course of five days, while still providing the body with nutrition. FMD is a plant-based diet designed to attain fasting-like effects on the body while still providing both macro and micro nutrients to minimise the burden and adverse effects generally associated with fasting. Under FMD, people typically undergo a low-calorie diet for five days a month two or three times a year, while largely retaining their regular eating habits in the remaining time.His team’s research on mice, published in the journal Nature Metabolism, was conducted among two groups of mice with very high fat diets, one of which was on FMD for five days a month. In the study, the mice on high-fat/calorie diet quickly put on weight, but only five days diet was enough to prevent obesity in the second set of mine.“Both men and women can follow this diet... For most people, such a diet needs to only be followed two to three times a year, while this number might be three to four times a year for obese people,” he said. “The idea of this diet is that you do it when you need to do it.” He added that it is best for people to consult a doctor or a nutritionist for the ideal execution of the diet, particularly if they are diabetic, pregnant, anorexic, or are on insulin-related drugs. Most importantly, he pointed out, that studies have shown FMD achieves weight loss while not reducing crucial parameters like muscle or bone mass – normally a by-product of traditional fasting diets.Longo added that his team has finished yet-to-be-published research where the effects of the diet on diabetic people were found promising. On the crucial topic of sugar consumption, the professor said, “Don’t worry about the sugar in your tea or coffee if you only put a small spoonful.” He said during his research in Italy when his team looked at the widespread belief that high-sugar junk food may be behind obesity, they found that people were eating high volumes of pasta, bread, rice, and potatoes, which was the main problem. The obesity, he said, was “not coming from the candy or sugary drinks, but from a tonne of refined carbohydrates that were a part of the Mediterranean diet”.He said that his clinical trials clearly showed that using a proper diet, people can reverse the damage of ageing and lifestyle disease. “It can definitely reverse it (the effects of ageing)... We saw that people that were pre-diabetic were clearly returning to normal states. And while more research is needed...we can certainly say that we’ve seen reversal of diseases like diabetes is some patients,” Longo said.Periodic FMD, Longo said, is even more effective in at-risk patients. His research showed a significant drop in parameters like blood glucose in pre-diabetic patients after three cycles of FMD. Similar reductions were found in IGF-1 (a marker associated with ageing and cancer), and markers of cardiovascular diseases, and drop in blood cholesterol. “[FMD] is not hitting just one risk-factor for disease, but is going after multiple risk-factors,” he said. By reducing these factors, it is effectively reducing the biological age of the participants.Longo is also the director of the Longevity and Cancer Program at the IFOM Institute of Molecular Oncology in Milan, and is the author of multiple books including the best-seller The Longevity Diet.The longevity diet he advocates involves occasional long periods of FMD, along with a mostly plant-based diet with fish, low protein intake and high levels of complex carbohydrates, healthy fats and Omega 3s, vitamins, among others.For people who are overweight, obese or those that tend to put on weight, he said, “They should have breakfast as usual — as skipping breakfast is not recommended — but should pick a single meal between the option of lunch and dinner. The other should be substituted with a snack that is less than 100 calories – it could be fruits, or nuts, or a small salad.”He added: “I think it is very important to have this be clinically tested and to have a diet that is starting to look like medicine for people rather than have them improvise.” Longo stressed that eating the food our ancestors consumed forms a key part in keeping health problems at bay because ethnicity and race can play a role on how food can affect our body. “So eventually, we are going to have thousands and thousands of precise diets for thousands of people,” he said. If a family, for instance, has a history of celiac disease then their diets may not be conducive to bread or forms of gluten. “For instance, if you’re Norwegian then milk may not be a problem for you, but if you’re Japanese or southern Italian then you are more likely to be lactose intolerant, so your diet will need to be modified accordingly,” he said.“It is important to look at what your grandparents and their parents were eating and it never bothered them... Then you look at the longevity diet and find an equivalent in what your grandparents ate.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/htls-2021-reversing-ageing-controlling-weight-key-for-saving-lives-dr-valter-longo-101638469843950.html
03-12-2021||India||India rejects UN body’s remarks on J&K killings, activist’s arrest||New Delhi: India on Thursday described the UN Human Rights Office’s criticism of the arrest of rights activist Khurram Parvez and recent killings in Kashmir as “baseless and unfounded allegations” against the country’s security forces. The office of the UN high commissioner for human rights (OHCHR) on Wednesday expressed deep concern at the arrest of Parvez under the Unlawful Activities (Prevention) Act (UAPA), saying it is “increasingly alarmed by the rise in killings of civilians”, including members of religious minorities, by armed groups in Kashmir this year. Responding to the UN agency’s criticism, external affairs ministry spokesperson Arindam Bagchi said the statement “makes baseless and unfounded allegations against law enforcement authorities and security forces of India”. The criticism also “betrays a complete lack of understanding” on the part of the UN agency of security challenges faced by India from cross-border terror and its impact on the most fundamental human right of “right to life” for citizens, including in Jammu and Kashmir, he said. Watch: Jaish’s IED expert, Pak terrorist killed in encounter with forces in PulwamaBagchi said the UN agency’s reference to “proscribed terrorist organisations as ‘armed groups’ demonstrates a clear bias on the part of the OHCHR”. He added, “As a democratic country, with an abiding commitment to promote and protect the human rights of its citizens, India takes all necessary steps to counter cross-border terrorism.” National security legislations such as UAPA were enacted by Parliament to protect India’s sovereignty and ensure the security of its citizens, and the arrest and subsequent detention of Parvez was “done entirely as per provisions of law”, Bagchi said. “Authorities in India act against violations of law and not against the legitimate exercise of rights. All such actions are strictly in accordance with the law. We urge the OHCHR to develop a better understanding of the negative impact of terrorism on human rights,” Bagchi added. UN Human Rights Office spokesperson Rupert Colville said in his statement on Wednesday that Parvez, now in custody for more than a week, was accused of terrorism-related offences, but the UN agency was “unaware of the factual basis of the charges”. He described Parvez as a “tireless advocate for families of the disappeared” who has been targeted before for his activism. Colville called on Indian authorities to fully safeguard Parvez’s right to freedom of expression, association and personal liberty and to “take the precautionary step of releasing him”. Contending that the UAPA empowers authorities to “designate individuals and organisations as terrorists based on imprecise criteria”, “contains a vague and overly broad definition of ‘terrorist act’” and “allows people to be held in lengthy pretrial detention”, Colville said the act was increasingly being used to stifle the work of human rights activists and journalists in Kashmir and other parts of India.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/india-rejects-un-rights-body-s-criticism-of-parvez-s-arrest-killings-in-kashmir-101638435862250.html
