04-12-2021||India||Tripura State Rifles jawan kills 2 seniors, surrenders: Police||AGARTALA: Two Tripura State Rifles (TSR) personnel were allegedly gunned down by their colleague on Saturday at a camp at Konabon area in Sepahijala district, police said, adding that the accused subsequently surrendered. According to a police officer, the accused, Sukanta Das (38), a rifleman of the 5th battalion of TSR, gunned down his seniors — Subedar Marka Singh Jamatia and Naib Subedar Kiran Jamatia — as he was “not given relief despite approval of his leave application”. “Other members of the battalion, on hearing gun shots, rushed to the spot and found the subedar and naib subedar lying in a pool of blood. They were taken to a hospital, where the subedar was declared ‘brought dead’ and the naib subedar later succumbed to his injuries,” Krishnendu Chakravertty, the superintendent of police in Sepahijala, was quoted as saying by PTI. “We arrested him after he surrendered before us. He has been booked for voluntarily causing injury, murder and under relevant sections of the Arms Act. He is likely to be produced before a court on Sunday after completing preliminary interrogation and other official formalities,” said a senior police officer. Das joined TSR services in 2002. Chief Minister Biplab Kumar Deb announced ₹5 lakh compensation to the families of both TSR personnel along with benefits under die-in-harness scheme. “My homage to our brave personnel of Tripura State Rifles, Subedar Marka Singh Jamatia & Nb Subedar Kiran Jamatia who died while on duty today. My condolences to bereaved family. #Tripura govt has decided to give ₹ 5 Lakh each to bereaved families. They will also get benefits under the Die-in-harness scheme,” Deb posted on Twitter. In 2018, a TSR jawan killed his wife and two children in West district before claiming his own life. In August this year, a Border Security Force (BSF) jawan killed himself with his service rifle in Khowai district.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/tripura-state-rifles-jawan-kills-2-seniors-surrenders-police-101638642560656.html
04-12-2021||India||Not just Bengal and Odisha, cyclone Jawad to cause rainfall in 10 more states||It's December and yet rain continues to wreak havoc as India braces up for yet another cyclone in 2021. Cyclone Jawad, named by Saudi Arabia, is expected to make landfall in Odisha's Puri district around Sunday noon. Owing to this, a total of 12 states, including Assam and Delhi, among others are likely to receive rainfall.According to the latest bulletin by the India Meteorological Department (IMD), the cyclone has weakened into a deep depression and is currently maintaining a north-northwestwards move towards Puri. The storm will gradually weaken into a depression by Sunday morning, and reach Puri by noon. Thereafter, it will move further north-northwestwards towards West Bengal coast and turn into a low-pressure area in the subsequent 24 hours.Also Read | Cyclone Jawad weakened into deep depression, lies 330km of Odisha’s Puri: IMDNot just Bengal and Odisha, cyclone Jawad to cause rainfall in 10 more states and UTsThis has come as quite a relief for Odisha, which was preparing to experience a cyclone in December after more than 100 years. The state government announced a closure of schools in 19 vulnerable districts for Saturday, and also evacuated thousands of people from the low-lying regions to safety zones.Similarly, Andhra Pradesh and West Bengal governments also evacuated people, with the former moving more than 54 thousand people.Also Read | Pronouncing approaching cyclone ‘Jawad’? You’re doing it wrongHowever, the aforementioned states are not the only ones to get affected by cyclone Jawad and the deep depression it has now weakened into. As many as 10 more states and Union territories (UTs) will receive rainfall over the next two days.Here are the key IMD alerts for all the 10 states till December 6:1. According to the latest IMD bulletin, light to moderate rainfall at many places, with heavy to very heavy rainfall at isolated places are likely over Gangetic West Bengal on December 5. The same weather alert has also been issued for north Odisha.2. Heavy rainfall has been forecasted over south Assam and Meghalaya, Tripura and Mizoram on December 5.3. The IMD bulletin stated that light to moderate rainfall at many places with heavy rainfall at isolated places are likely over Assam, Meghalaya, Mizoram and Tripura on December 6.4. Isolated heavy rainfall or snowfall warning has been issued in Jammu & Kashmir, and Ladakh on December 5.5. According to the latest IMD bulletin, isolated light rainfall is very likely over Delhi, Haryana, Chandigarh and Punjab on December 5.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/imd-alerts-12-states-to-get-rainfall-till-december-6-due-to-cyclone-jawad-101638637762234.html
04-12-2021||India||Mandaviya rejoices as India administers over 1 crore single-day Covid-19 vaccine jabs once again||India on Saturday registered yet another milestone of inoculating over 1 crore Covid-19 vaccine doses in a single day. This is the sixth time that the country has achieved this feat, especially at a time when the 'Har Ghar Dastak' (door-to-door) vaccination campaign is underway.Taking to Twitter, Union health and family welfare minister Mansukh Mandaviya hailed India’s achievement. “India achieves another 10000000 Covid-19 vaccinations today. With the Har Ghar Dastak campaign in full swing, the world’s largest vaccination drive is touching new heights and accomplishing new feats under PM Narendra Modi’s leadership,” he tweeted.
04-12-2021||India||HTLS 2021 ‘Star kids’ have it much tougher, social media has increased intrusion: Anil and Janhvi Kapoor||Evergreen Bollywood superstar Anil Kapoor, 64, and his rising star niece Janhvi Kapoor, 24, opened up on the industry’s recent vilification and also the future of creative audio-visual content in the OTT era during the concluding session of the Hindustan Times Leadership Summit 2021 on Saturday.In the context of the tribulations in a drugs case of Aryan Khan, the son of actor Shah Rukh Khan, Janhvi said that public scrutiny on people from film families is relentless in this age of social media.“Not just actors but even common people are subject to critiquing by means of social media these days. I’ve been made to feel very aware my whole life of my privilege, and there’s no running away from it. But that doesn’t really take away from experiences of pain and suffering and all the experiences of hard work and struggle that we might have had individually. And therefore, the wisdom that we have acquired as a result of those experiences; it doesn’t make that any less valuable,” Janhvi said.She confessed that for a long time, she was “very apologetic” about where she came from, and of who her parents were. “Yes, I did get my first film relatively easier than most people get it. And it’s important to acknowledge that. There are people that must have been much more deserving than I was. But, I can’t keep waking up with that baggage and that pressure,” she added. “Yes, I have the privilege of being able to do what I want to, but you (the audience) will watch me only if you find me worth it, else you won’t.”Anil, who joined the conversation with HT’s managing editor (entertainment & lifestyle) Sonal Kalra virtually from home quarantine in Mumbai after a visit to Europe, said the label “star kids” was by no means new, and the so-called “insider versus outsider” divide existed even when he started his career but the margin for failure afforded to the current generation was way too thin.“In my early days, I did several films that sank without a trace; nobody knew when they opened and went off screens. Yet, nothing happened. There was no social media at that time, so maybe it didn’t come out so much. I was considered an outsider for a long time, so I had the luxury of making mistakes... But not the other star kids like Sanjay Dutt, Sunny Deol, Kumar Gaurav who started out with me, but had the pressure to live up to their fathers’ name. Today, I would salute star kids because it is definitely tougher for them because of social media.”In tune with the theme of the summit — The New World Order — the actors also talked about how the advent of OTT (over-the-top) platforms redefined the dynamics of show business, more so in the past nearly two years since the pandemic hit.Anil, who forayed into the OTT space playing himself in Anurag Kashyap’s web film AK vs AK last year, said, “OTT is definitely the future because it opens us to the global stage, and we, as content creators and actors, get this opportunity to show our work... if you’re on an OTT platform, there are 200 countries simultaneously seeing your work, which is fantastic.”Jahnvi made her digital debut with her second project itself, starring in Zoya Akhtar’s web anthology Ghost Stories (2020), and was also seen in direct-to-OTT film Gunjan Saxena: The Kargil Girl the same year. Lauding the reach the platform has to offer, she said, “The web has made the audience’s sensibilities evolve. It has encouraged us as creative people, not just actors but writers, directors, producers and other creative people too. We’re exposed to cinema and TV shows and content world over.”Going forward, she said, a content divide would evolve between material more suited to the needs of each platform — OTT as well as bricks-and-mortar cinemas.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/htls-2021-star-kids-have-it-much-tougher-social-media-has-increased-intrusion-anil-and-janhvi-kapoor-101638641776802.html
04-12-2021||India||Pronouncing approaching cyclone ‘Jawad’? You’re doing it wrong||As states, including Odisha, West Bengal and Andhra Pradesh, brace for the landfall of cyclone Jawad, one may wonder how the storm got its name. Pronounced as ‘Jowad’ in Arabic, the storm was christened by Saudi Arabia.Cyclone Jawad is the fifth storm to hit the Indian coasts this year. According to the India Meteorological Department (IMD), the cyclonic storm has, however, weakened into a deep depression and currently lies closer to Andhra Pradesh and Odisha coast.This weakening followed a forecast by the weather department earlier in the day. The storm is now likely to move north-northwestwards and reach Odisha’s Puri district on Sunday (December 5) noon.Also Read | Cyclone Jawad weakened into deep depression, lies 330km of Odisha’s Puri: IMDGovernments of West Bengal, Odisha and Andhra Pradesh have evacuated several thousand people from low-lying areas to safety zones in order to minimise chances of casualties. The Odisha government has established shelter homes in Puri, and vacated people from the district’s beach – which is also a popular tourist destination in the eastern side of India. Both the Odisha and Bengal governments have urged tourists to stay away from the coast ahead of cyclone Jawad’s landfall.In its latest bulletin, the IMD said that cyclone Jawad is expected to turn into a depression by Sunday morning before reaching Puri around noon on the same day. It will then move towards the West Bengal coast and weaken further into a low-pressure area in the subsequent 24 hours.Owing to this, the weather department has issued a heavy to very heavy rainfall alert in Odisha and Gangetic West Bengal on December 5.What exactly does Jawad mean?Jawad pronounced as ‘Jowad’ means generous and merciful. It is an Arabic name that was given by Saudi Arabia.How are cyclones named?The responsibility of naming cyclones is handled by the World Meteorological Organisation and UN Economic and Social Commission for Asia and Pacific (UN ESCAP) led panel on tropical cyclones. This panel is a global body that constitutes regional specialised meteorological centres (RSMC) and tropical cyclone warning centres. The IMD is among the six RMCs across the globe, which needs to mandatorily issue advisories and name tropical cyclones over the north Indian Ocean area.Which countries can name the cyclones?The panel on tropical cyclones consists of as many as 13 countries such as Bangladesh, Myanmar, the Maldives, Thailand, Iran, Qatar, Oman, United Arab Emirates, Pakistan, Yemen, Sri Lanka, Saudi Arabia, and India. In 2020, the countries released a new list of names, containing a total of 169 names of cyclones. A total of 13 lists were released with each list having names of cyclones as suggested by all the 13 nations. At the moment, the first list is being followed by the panel.What will the next cyclone over the north Indian Ocean regions be called?The next name of the cyclone will be ‘Asani’ given by Sri Lanka, while the one following that will be called ‘Sitrang’, a name suggested by Thailand.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/pronouncing-approaching-cyclone-jawad-you-re-doing-it-wrong-101638640172720.html
04-12-2021||India||‘Worries about terrorism have got stronger...’: Jaishankar at Indian Ocean Conference in Abu Dhabi||The US withdrawal from Afghanistan and the Covid-19 pandemic have heightened uncertainties for Indian Ocean countries, which will have to take on greater responsibilities and display more initiative, external affairs minister S Jaishankar said on Saturday. The changing American strategic posture and the rise of China are trends with significant consequences for nations in the Indian Ocean region that highlight the importance of establishing a multi-polar Asia as a foundation for a multi-polar world, Jaishankar said while addressing the Indian Ocean Conference in Abu Dhabi. The drawdown of US troops from Afghanistan has left the immediate and extended region grappling with serious concerns about terrorism, radicalism, instability, narco-trafficking and governance practices, while the impact of Covid-19 has left the region vulnerable to health and economic stresses and also exposed fault-lines and shortcomings of the international system, he said. “Worries about terrorism have got stronger in the light of developments in the Af-Pak region,” Jaishankar said. The world community has voiced its concerns through UN Security Council resolution 2593, by demanding “assurances that Afghan soil will not be used for terrorism, by pressing for inclusive governance, and seeking safeguards on the treatment of minorities, women and children”, he pointed out. There is now “greater caution in US power projection” and an effort to correct its over extension, and Washington is adjusting to multi-polarity and rebalancing, he said. The rise of China has had an impact on connectivity, technology and trade, he added. “Separately, we have also seen a sharpening of tensions on territorial issues across the breadth of Asia. Agreements and understandings of yesteryears now seem to have some question marks,” Jaishankar said in an apparent reference to the India-China standoff on the Line of Actual Control (LAC) that began last year. Without naming China, Jaishankar also took a swipe at its Belt and Road Initiative. He said, “Assuming unsustainable levels of debt in pursuit of apparently attractive projects was one concern. The economic downturn that accompanied the pandemic has heightened this significantly.” He added, “The ongoing debate on responsible and viable connectivity is another. When plans and projects lack transparency, market viability, consultation or local participation, their consequences are unlikely to be beneficial. This too has been sharpened at a time of financial stress.” Freedom of navigation and overflight and unimpeded commerce under the framework of the United Nations Convention on the Law of the Sea (UNCLOS) will have to be respected and facilitated, and it is also essential to resolve disputes through peaceful means without threat or use of force, Jaishankar said. Countries in the Indian Ocean region will have to work towards more resilient and reliable supply chains and greater trust and transparency. A greater role is emerging for middle powers, and there will be “greater localisation and arrangements of greater pragmatism”, he said. “Indian Ocean nations are called upon today to take greater responsibilities, fashion better relationships and display more initiative,” he added. The Quadrilateral Security Dialogue or Quad, he said, was a good example of cooperation within the Indo-Pacific region. Within a year, it had developed a robust agenda covering maritime security, cyber security, climate action, vaccine collaboration, critical technologies, semi-conductors, counter-terrorism, resilient supply chains, infrastructure, disinformation and disaster relief. Nations also need to speedily normalise travel through recognition of vaccine certificates, he said, adding India has finalised solutions in this regard with about 100 countries. 
04-12-2021||India||Madhya Pradesh panchayat elections to be held in 3 phases from Jan 6: Commission||BHOPAL: : Madhya Pradesh’s panchayat elections will be held in three phases with voting on January 6, January 28 and February 14, 2021, state election commissioner Basant Pratap Singh said on Saturday.Singh said the model code of conduct in the state has kicked in with the announcement of the poll schedule.“The last election was held in 2014 December and the tenure has been completed in 2020 but due to Covid 19, it delayed. Now, the commission has decided to conduct it as the positivity rate in MP is less than 0.1% for the past five months,” Singh said.The top election official mandated to conduct local body elections said the state commission will follow Covid 19 protocols. “If the number of Covid cases increases in January and February, a decision will be taken accordingly,” he said.The official also explained that the commission was opting for three phrases since it only has 55,000 electronic voting machines (EVM). “We will use sealed detachable memory module in the EVMs to keep a record of results,” he said.The process of filing nominations for the first and second phases will start from December 13.Counting for sarpanch and panch elections will be held at the booth after the polling, while the votes for janpad panchayat and zila panchayat members will be counted at the block headquarters.Results of elections for janpad panchayat members will be announced at the block headquarters on February 22. The results of zila panchayat members’ election will be declared at the district headquarters on February 23, Singh said.According to news agency PTI, polling for 859 posts of district panchayats across 52 districts, 6,727 posts of 313 janpad panchayats, sarpanch of 22,581 village panchayats and 3,62,754 posts of panch members will be held over the three phases.In the first phase, polling for 6,283 village panchayats and 85 janpad panchayats across nine districts will be held on January 6, 2022.The polling for 110 janpad panchayats and 8,015 village panchayats across seven districts will be held in the second phase on January 28.Elections for 8,397 village panchayats and 118 janpad panchayats across 36 districts will be held on February 16 in the third phase, Singh said.The process of filing nominations for the first and second phases will start from December 13.Counting for sarpanch and panch elections will be held at the booth after the polling, while the votes for Janpad Panchayat and Zila Panchayat members will be counted at the block headquarters.Results of election for Janpad panchayat members will be announced at the block headquarters on February 22. The results of district panchayat members’ election will be declared at the district headquarters on February 23, Singh said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/madhya-pradesh-panchayat-elections-to-be-held-in-3-phases-from-jan-6-commission-101638638596828.html
04-12-2021||India||Prospects of farm talks brighten, SKM forms panel||Crucial talks between the Union government and protesting farm unions could resume in a few weeks after nearly a year of pause.On Saturday, the Samyukt Kisan Morcha (SKM), a platform of over 40 farm unions, named a five-member committee to lead negotiations “in case the government sends a formal invitation for discussions”, a farm leader said.“Talks are possible soon but it all depends on when the government send its invitation,” Hannan Mollah, who is on the SKM’s committee for presumptive negotiations, said.The Union government is indirectly talking to some farm leaders to prepare the ground for dialogue over a slew of remaining demands by cultivators. On November 29, the Centre repealed three contentious agricultural-reform laws farmers had been protesting against since over a year ago. Mollah said the farmers’ platform had set up a five-member panel acceding to a request by the Centre to keep the team of negotiators small. He said home minister Amit Shah had telephonic conversations with farm leaders Balbir Singh Rajewal and Yudhvir Singh. “This not good enough. We need a formal dialogue to start soon,” he said.The Union government hasn’t announced a date for the two sides to get back on the table and the SKM said it would respond only when an official invitation is extended to the farmers by the Centre. After 11 rounds of talks, the Centre had withdrawn from the dialogue process on January 22 this year after a deadlock. At that time, the Union government witnessed sweeping calls by farm unions to scrap the laws. In a rare climbdown, Prime Minister Narendra Modi on November 19 said his government would abandon the legislation at the heart of massive protests by tens of thousands of farmers. The agricultural laws scrapped by the Modi government allowed private traders and supermarket chains to buy farm produce outside of tightly regulated state-run agricultural markets. Farmers say this would have left them at the mercy of large corporations.The laws also allowed traders to stockpile large quantities of farm produce for future sale and laid down a national framework for contract farming based on written agreements.The farmers said the government would have to cancel all criminal cases registered against protesting farmers in various states, especially Haryana, a major arena of the farm protests. In separate talks between Haryana chief minister Manohar Lal Khattar and a team of farm leaders, that included Gurnam Singh Chaduni and Inderjit Singh, the Haryana government on Friday, for the first time, acknowledged that it was prepared to take cases. “The Haryana chief minister said cases would be withdrawn but he did not even in principle accept our demand of monetary compensation to families of farmers who lost their lives,” Inderjit said.The two sides – the Haryana government and the farm leaders led by Charuni - could not agree on the number of cases to be withdrawn. Farm unions say 45,000 protesting farmers had been named as accused in various police complaints, while the government put the figure at 32,000. “(The) Samyukt Kisan Morcha held a crucial meeting today to discuss pending demands of the farmers’ movement and the lack of a formal response from the Government of India. It was decided unanimously that the farmers’ agitation will continue until formal and satisfactory responses are obtained from the Government of India,” the SKM said in a release. Although the Union government has cancelled three farm laws, which farmers argue were meant to benefit large corporations and supermarket chains at the expense of cultivators, a slew of demands is yet to be resolved.Bringing law to guarantee minimum prices for farm produce is a top pending demand. Besides, farm unions also want the cancelling of the Electricity Amendment Bill 2020/2021, which proposes to replace subsidized agricultural power with direct cash benefits. The SKM also wants section 15 of law on pollution in the national capital region deleted. The section empowers authorities to fine farmers for burning crop residue, a major cause of air pollution. The farmers also want the withdrawal of all cases slapped on protesting farmers in states such as Delhi, Haryana, Uttar Pradesh, Uttarakhand, Himachal Pradesh, Madhya Pradesh, Chandigarh, Maharashtra and Rajasthan. They also want a parcel of land to erect a memorial for 708 farmers who lost their lives during their year-long agitation and their families rehabilitated with compensation. The SKM in its statement on Friday also demanded the arrest and sacking of Union minister Ajay Mishra Teni, whose son has been arrested for allegedly ramming a car into a group of farmers in Uttar Pradesh’s Lakhimpur Kheri. The farmers’ platform said the five-member committee will also decide on state-level teams that might have to work along with some state governments should there be a requirement. The SKM’s leaders said they awaited a response from the Centre and would meet next on December 7. 
04-12-2021||India||Decision soon, says Goa Congress MLA Ravi Naik on buzz that he will join BJP||PANAJI: Congress MLA and former chief minister Ravi Naik, widely speculated to be planning to switch across to the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP), said he has consulted his supporters and will announce his decision soon. Naik, who was Goa chief minister for a little over 27 months in the early 1990s, was responding to buzz that he will be the next one to cross sides.Goa Forward Party, a regional party led by Vijai Sardesai, this week lost a MLA, Jayesh Salgaonkar, who quit from the assembly and the party before joining the BJP on Friday. As chief minister Pramod Sawant welcomed Jayesh Salgaonkar into the BJP, he announced that there was a long list of politicians from rival parties who were waiting to sign up with the BJP.Naik has long been considered to be on the top of this list. Political leaders close to him said Ravi Naik could join the BJP as early as Sunday.“There is nothing to announce at the moment. Over the next few days I will announce if there is any decision. I have heard all sides and have also consulted with my supporters,” Naik told reporters on Friday.Naik’s exit, as and when he chooses to formalise it, will not surprise the Goa Congress which gave up on the politician who once led the state government after his sons ejected from the party.Congress leaders said the veteran Congress politician has been considered persona non grata for all practical purposes by the party leadership after his two sons, Ritesh and Roy, joined the BJP in August last year. Goa Congress president Girish Chodankar was upfront, and public about it. “The day his sons joined the BJP we disowned him and have also readied another candidate to take his place,” Chodankar said earlier.The Naik camp also never made it an effort to counter the view that he will follow his sons’ footsteps.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/decision-soon-says-goa-congress-mla-ravi-naik-on-buzz-that-he-will-join-bjp-101638632357059.html
04-12-2021||India||News updates from HT: Jammu’s border villagers in favour of Indo-Pak truce deal, and all the latest news||Here are today’s top news, analysis and opinion. Know all about the latest news and other news updates from Hindustan Times.The villagers in more than 400 Indian villages along the 300 km long Line of Control (LoC) and 198 km long International Border in five districts of the Jammu region are leading a normal life since February 25 when India and Pakistan renewed their truce deal to bring an end to the intense shelling. Read moreCyclone Jawad has weakened into a deep depression, the India Meteorological Department (IMD) said on Saturday. Taking to Twitter, the weather department said that the deep depression currently lies near Andhra Pradesh’s Visakhapatnam, and Odisha’s Gopalpur, Paradip and Puri. Read moreIndia and Russia are putting the finishing touches to agreements in defence, trade, space, technology and energy that are expected to be signed during the annual summit between Prime Minister Narendra Modi and President Vladimir Putin on December 6. Read moreNew Zealand pacer Ajaz Patel on Saturday, at the Wankhede Stadium, became only the third bowler in the history of Test cricket, after Jim Laker and Anil Kumble, to bag all 10 wickets in a single innings. Read moreSending emojis while communicating with others or simply sharing posts on social media platforms has turned into an inseparable part of life for many. Read more||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/news-updates-from-ht-jammu-s-border-villagers-in-favour-of-indo-pak-truce-deal-and-all-the-latest-news-101638630441214.html
04-12-2021||India||Cyclone Jawad weakened into deep depression, lies 330km of Odisha’s Puri: IMD||Cyclone Jawad has weakened into a deep depression, the India Meteorological Department (IMD) said on Saturday. Taking to Twitter, the weather department said that the deep depression currently lies near Andhra Pradesh’s Visakhapatnam, and Odisha’s Gopalpur, Paradip and Puri.“It (cyclone Jawad weakened into deep depression) is about 180km east-southeast of Visakhapatnam (Andhra Pradesh), 260km south of Gopalpur, 330km south-southwest of Puri, and 420km south-southwest of Paradip (all three in Odisha),” IMD tweeted at 6.51pm.
04-12-2021||India||India, Russia expected to sign agreements in defence, trade, energy during annual summit||India and Russia are putting the finishing touches to agreements in defence, trade, space, technology and energy that are expected to be signed during the annual summit between Prime Minister Narendra Modi and President Vladimir Putin on December 6.Ahead of Putin’s day-long visit, the Indian government cleared a plan for the joint production of more than 500,000 AK-203 assault rifles with Russia to boost self-reliance in defence manufacturing, officials familiar with the matter said on Saturday.The annual summit – which has been held since 2000 – will be preceded by meetings between defence minister Rajnath Singh and his Russian counterpart Sergey Shoigu and external affairs minister S Jaishankar and his Russian counterpart Sergey Lavrov, and the inaugural 2+2 dialogue of the defence and foreign ministers.The two sides are looking forward to intense engagement on issues ranging from ways to deepen bilateral cooperation in trade, connectivity and energy to regional security concerns, such as the situation in Afghanistan, people familiar with planning for the summit said on condition of anonymity.Several agreements to deepen cooperation in defence, trade, space, technology, energy and culture are expected to be inked during the summit, the people said. The two sides are expected to renew their military-technical cooperation arrangement for 2021-31. A key pact that could be signed is the Reciprocal Exchange of Logistics Agreement (RELOS), which will allow militaries of the two nations to access logistics and support facilities at each other’s bases.The joint statement to be issued after the summit is expected to reflect India’s concerns over cross-border terror and the fallout of the Taliban takeover of Afghanistan, the people said. Modi and Putin had decided in August to have close consultations on Afghanistan and the two sides are coordinating on common concerns, the people added.Days before the summit, the government approved the plan to manufacture AK-203 rifles at a factory at Amethi in Uttar Pradesh under a joint venture called Indo-Russian Rifles Private Limited that was formed by Advanced Weapons and Equipment India Limited and Munitions India Limited and Russia’s Rosoboronexport and Kalashnikov.The Cabinet Committee on Security (CCS) on Wednesday took up the ₹5,100-crore project. The AK-203 rifles will replace INSAS rifles inducted more than three decades ago.“The approval reflects the paradigm shift in defence acquisition from buying (global) to Make in India. The endeavour also reflects the deepening partnership between the two countries,” said an official. “The project will provide business opportunities to various MSMEs and other defence firms for supply of raw material and components, which will lead to a generation of new employment opportunities,” he said.Last month, the Defence Acquisition Council (DAC) – India’s apex military procurement body – granted key approvals to accelerate the acquisition of AK-203 rifles to be made in India with a transfer of Russian technology.Putin’s visit will have a major defence and security overhang. The delivery of the first squadron of S-400 air defence systems – part of a $5.4-billion contract with Russia for five systems – is coinciding with the visit. Russian officials have said that the delivery of components for the air defence systems has already begun.Against the backdrop of US threats to impose secondary sanctions on the S-400 deal under the Countering America’s Adversaries Through Sanctions Act (CAATSA), the people cited above said India follows a policy of strategic autonomy when it comes to defence procurements and national security interests.The people said Russia was a “natural fit” for a 2+2 dialogue as the two countries work closely on defence and political issues. India currently has such mechanisms only with Australia, Japan and the US, but the people said the new 2+2 dialogue with Russia wasn’t an afterthought or a balancing act.At least 15 groups focused on economic cooperation between India and Russia have met virtually over the past two years amid the Covid-19 pandemic and the two sides have increased the target for two-way investments to $50 billion by 2025 as the earlier target of $30 billion had been achieved in 2018. India is also focusing on trade and investment opportunities in Russia’s Far East, including in coal and diamonds and meeting manpower needs. As part of these efforts, 11 governors from the Far East have been invited to the Vibrant Gujarat meet of 2022.Modi and Putin are expected to have restricted one-on-one talks during the summit, which will begin at 5.30 pm, and the Russian leader will emplane from Delhi at 9.30 pm. Their talks are expected to provide guidance for strengthening the bilateral strategic partnership.This will only be Putin’s second foreign visit since the Covid-19 outbreak – he travelled to Geneva in June for his first meeting with US President Joe Biden. Putin’s decision to travel to New Delhi reflects the importance attached by Russia to its special and privileged strategic partnership with India.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/india-russia-expected-to-sign-agreements-in-defence-trade-energy-during-annual-summit-101638628936512.html
04-12-2021||India||Fourth case of Omicron Covid-19 variant detected in India||India has confirmed its fourth case of Omicron variant of coronavirus (Covid-19), hours after a senior citizen from Gujarat was found infected with the highly transmissible variant. The infection has been reported in a 33-year-old man from Maharashtra’s Kalyan-Dombivli who has a travel history to Cape Town in South Africa, people familiar with the development said on Saturday. The case is also the first-known infection of Omicron variant to be reported from Maharashtra.The 33-year-old man had arrived in Delhi on November 23 and gave his samples for Covid-19 testing at the Delhi airport. He then took a flight to Mumbai, according to news agency PTI.“A man from Kalyan Dombivli municipal corporation area has tested positive for the Omicron variant of COVID-19. He is the first official case in the state,” Maharashtra health department director Dr Archana Patil told PTI in Mumbai.Also read | 'Double vaccination first,' say Indian experts amid calls for booster shots“He came with a group of four people. We are tracing and tracking them. Their RT-PCR test as well as genome sequencing will be done as well,” she said.Cases with the Omicron variant have already been detected in Karnataka and Gujarat.Also read | Does our immune system needs to evolve with new, risky variants of coronavirus?The third known case of the Omicron Covid-19 variant in India came to light from Gujarat after a man from Jamnagar, who had returned from Zimbabwe, tested positive for the disease.Previously, two men in Karnataka tested positive for the Omicron variant, in the first cases to be reported from India.The omicron variant, first detected in South Africa, has triggered widespread concern as multiple mutations have been found in the strain that can possibly dampen all the efforts to slow down the ongoing pandemic. The strain has been marked as a "variant of concern" by the World Health Organisation (WHO).According to the Centre, the countries designated as ‘at-risk’ are European countries, including the United Kingdom, and South Africa, Brazil, Botswana, China, Mauritius, New Zealand, Zimbabwe, Singapore, Hong Kong and Israel.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/fourth-case-of-omicron-covid-19-variant-detected-in-india-101638625560688.html
04-12-2021||India||TN makes Tamil exam mandatory for qualifying government services||The MK Stalin-led Tamil Nadu government has made qualifying the Tamil exam mandatory for entry to Tamil Nadu government services and state-run public sector enterprises, reported news agencies. The order to this effect was passed by the state government on Friday, reported news agency ANI.The order makes the Tamil exam mandatory for all the candidates appearing for a competitive exam conducted by the state recruitment board, ANI further cited the information as shared by state finance minister Palanivel Thiagarajan. "The exam will be qualifying in nature and it is mandatory for a student to secure at least 40% marks in this exam to get a government job in the state," he was quoted as saying."This new policy will help prevail social justice. The government school students will be given importance in the recruitment process," he added.If an aspirant does not get through in the qualifying Tamil language paper, other subject papers, that are part of the overall exam scheme, would not be taken up for evaluation, according to the order.Other state recruitment agencies including the Teachers Recruitment Board, Medical Services Recruitment Board, Tamil Nadu Uniformed Services Recruitment Board and Tamil Nadu Forest Uniformed Services Recruitment Committee would release similar guidelines.The minister further informed that there are nine lakh government posts for eight crore people in Tamil Nadu.(With agency inputs)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/tn-makes-tamil-exam-mandatory-for-qualifying-government-services-101638624000356.html
04-12-2021||India||Jammu’s border villagers say they want Indo-Pak truce deal to continue||The villagers in more than 400 Indian villages along the 300 km long Line of Control (LoC) and 198 km long International Border in five districts of the Jammu region are leading a normal life since February 25 when India and Pakistan renewed their truce deal to bring an end to the intense shelling. A total of 457 villages with a population of 4,51,856 are located at the IB and the LoC in Jammu, Samba, Kathua, Poonch and Rajouri districts of the Jammu region.“Earlier, Pakistani mortars used to hit our houses and my own house was damaged in it. We had to flee the village to safer places. However, peace has returned since February 25 and now we feel like living in a paradise. We are leading a peaceful life,” said Tufail Hussain, 36, of Shahpur Mendhar, a village on the LoC in Poonch district.Hussain informed that new roads have been constructed in his area.“Other development projects have also been taken up. The socio-economic condition has improved. Earlier, villagers lived under constant fear of being hit by Pak mortars. Now, we are also able to do farming,” he added.Vikram, a resident of Mendhar in Poonch said, “we want Indo-Pak truce deal to continue because during hostilities villagers bear the maximum brunt of Pak shelling. We appeal to both the countries to keep it in place”. With peace in place, fear among the villagers has also vanished into thin air, he added.Rohit Choudhary, a youth from RS Pura sector of Jammu district, said, “we are the biggest beneficiaries of peace between India and Pakistan because during hostilities we literally become sitting ducks for Pakistani forces, which target hapless villagers.”“Since there is peace now on the border, we are able to focus on other aspects of life like farming, livelihood and education. Otherwise, either we lived under constant fear of getting killed in Pak shelling or lived in pitiable conditions in government camps for days together,” he added. Choudhary, however, regretted that the government has not learnt its lessons from past experiences.“Though the government has created a 50-bedded hospital in RS Pura, it doesn’t have adequate staff. It doesn’t have a blood bank and has no trauma centre. There is no senior doctor at the night,” he said. He informed that even BSF jawans, who get injured in Pak firing, were shifted to the RS Pura hospital but in absence of staff, they had to be referred to GMC Jammu.BSF Jammu frontier DIG SPS Sandhu said, “there is peace on the international border since February 25. Earlier, there was uncertainty. We and they (rangers) are very positive. Definitely renewed truce deal has benefitted people on either side of the border”. However, infiltration bids have resumed since June this year and some of the attempts were successful as well, evident from recent encounters close to LoC in Rajouri and Poonch districts.The DGP Dilbag Singh has said that infiltration bids have resumed and that launch pads across the LoC remain intact.On November 24, BSF also lodged a strong protest with Pak Rangers at a commandant level meet against drone activities on IB and asked it to refrain from it.However, on June 2, Pakistan had opened fire at a BSF’s excavator in the Arnia sector of the Jammu district. The machine was being used to clear wild grass and bushes on the Indian territory along the border. Prior to it, Pak rangers had opened fire on May 3 at BSF personnel in the Ramgarh sector. They were doing maintenance work at the border fence when Rangers opened a small arms fire. The BSF had exercised restraint in both incidents. 
04-12-2021||India||Farmers won't budge from protest sites in Delhi until cases are withdrawn: SKM||The Samyukta Kisan Morcha (SKM) on Saturday announced farmers protesting against the three farm laws, which have now been repealed, will not move from the demonstration sites at the borders of Delhi until the Centre withdraws cases registered against them during the course of their agitation.The latest announcement came after the umbrella body of farmers’ unions held a meeting near the Singhu border between Haryana and Delhi to discuss the future course of the farmers' protests.Farmer leader Darshan Pal Singh, speaking to the ANI news agency, said leaders of all farmers' organisations have decided to not go back unless the cases against the farmers are withdrawn.“Today, a clear-cut signal has been sent out to the government that we are not going to back the agitation unless all cases against the farmers are taken back,” the news agency quoted the leader as saying.On Monday, a bill was passed in the ongoing Winter Session of Parliament to repeal the three contentious agriculture laws, one of the main demands of the protesting farmers.However, the stalemate continues with protesters pressing for other pending demands – which include a law guaranteeing minimum selling price (MSP), an amount of money as compensation to the families of farmers who died during the stir and the withdrawal of cases against the protesters.The SKM, which spearheaded the protests against the controversial farm laws, has now formed a five-member panel for carrying out dialogue with the central government on the rest of their demands.Farmer leaders Balbir Singh Rajewal, Ashok Dhawle, Shiv Kumar Kakka, Gurnam Singh Chaduni, and Yudhvir Singh were named the members of the committee.According to Bharatiya Kisan Union (BKU) leader Rakesh Tikait, the next meeting of the SKM will take place at 11am on December 7, where they will further deliberate upon the future course of the movement.Farmer leader and SKM member Ashok Dhawle told PTI that the issues such as the compensation for martyred farmers, “false cases” lodged against farmers, and even the Lakhimpur Kheri violence were discussed in the meeting.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/farmers-won-t-budge-from-protest-sites-in-delhi-until-cases-are-withdrawn-skm-101638618270015.html
04-12-2021||India||Amit Shah meets Paralympian Avani Lekhara, thanks her for ‘wonderful gift’||Union home minister Amit Shah on Saturday tweeted a photo with Paralympian and rifle shooter Avani Lekhara after meeting her on the sidelines of the Hindustan Times Leadership Summit 2021.The home minister also wished Lekhara, the first Indian woman to win a Paralympic gold medal.“Met India’s ace shooter and Paralympic gold medalist @AvaniLekhara this morning. The entire nation is proud of your accomplishments. My best wishes for your future endeavours. And thank you for this wonderful gift,” Shah said in a tweet.Avani Lekhara won India's first gold medal at the 2020 Summer Paralympics, with a score of 249.6 points in the final event.Met India’s ace shooter and Paralympic gold medalist @AvaniLekhara this morning. The entire nation is proud of your accomplishments. My best wishes for your future endeavours.And thank you for this wonderful gift. pic.twitter.com/zdQh2f7RCGHindustan Times Leadership Summit 2021, over the past five days, saw prominent personalities from the world of politics, sports, business and entertainment taking the stage and sharing their insights on what ‘The New World Order’ entails in their domain.Amit Shah, who delivered the keynote address on the last and final day of HTLS, spoke on a range of topics, including Uttar Pradesh assembly elections, restoration of statehood in Jammu and Kashmir among other things.The Union home minister also highlighted how Narendra Modi-led Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) transformed the country in the last seven years, adding India was in a state of ‘policy paralysis’ before 2014, and it was changed by the present dispensation.Avani Lekhara, speaking on the HTLS, expressed happiness with the positive change that India's Paralympic contingent has brought about with their record medal haul in Tokyo earlier this summer. "There has been a good change after winning the medal. Para sports are being recognised now", Avani told Shivani Gupta, the senior associate of CNN-News18.Check full coverage here||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/amit-shah-meets-paralympian-avani-lekhara-thanks-her-for-wonderful-gift-101638614448453.html
04-12-2021||India||Samyukt Kisan Morcha forms 5-member panel to talk with Centre over farm issues||Samyukt Kisan Morcha, an umbrella of famers' unions, on Saturday formed a five-member committee to talk to the Centre over agricultural issues, its convener Rakesh Tikait said.“SKM has formed a 5-member committee to talk to the government. It'll be the authorised body to talk to the government. The committee will have Balbir Singh Rajewal, Shiv Kumar Kakka, Gurnam Singh Charuni, Yudhvir Singh and Ashok Dhawale,” Tikait was quoted as saying by news agency ANI.He added that the next meeting of the SKM would be convened on December 7.The SKM held a meeting earlier in the day to decide on the future course of farmers' agitation.Last month, Tikait said that the SKM has given the government time till December 4 to listen to the demands of the farmers.Raising the issue of shortage of fertilisers, Tikait said, “There is a shortage of fertiliser in the country. This will lead affect the production of crops. Then the government will have to import grains from other countries.”He said the government should take responsibility if production decreases in the country. “We have always asked the government to ensure the availability of fertilisers,” Tikait was quoted as saying by ANI.The meeting came in the backdrop of Prime Minister Narendra Modi last month announcing his government's decision to repeal the three contentious farm laws.Both the Lok Sabha and the Rajya Sabha passed the Farm Laws Repeal Bill on the first day of the winter session on November 29. President Ram Nath Kovind has also given his assent to the Bill that completes the process of repealing the three farm laws.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/samyukt-kisan-morcha-forms-5-member-panel-to-talk-with-centre-over-farm-issues-101638618097187.html
04-12-2021||India||News updates from HT: Focus on double Covid vaccination first, experts tell India amid cry for booster jabs over Omicron||'Double vaccination first,' say Indian experts amid calls for booster shotsAs calls for Covid-19 vaccine booster shots grow amid the emergence of Omicron, the new coronavirus variant, scientists are urging India should prioritise double vaccinating its eligible population first so that most people at least get the base layer of protection against the viral infection. Read more.India detects third Omicron case. What we know so farIndia on Saturday reported its third case of the Omicron days after two people were found infected with the latest strain of the coronavirus in Karnataka, government officials said. Read more.276 pregnant Odisha women shifted to hospital as cyclone Jawad nearsOdisha shifted 276 pregnant women to nearest hospitals during evacuation of people from low lying areas even as the India Meteorological Department on Saturday said cyclone Jawad may weaken to deep depression before reaching Puri coast by Sunday noon. Read more.India vs New Zealand: Kiwis register historic low in Mumbai Test, break 34-year-old recordShortly after New Zealand reached a record high thanks to Ajaz Patel's 10-wicket haul in an innings, the Kiwis posted the lowest ever score against India in a Test. Read more.Twinkle Khanna shares heartwarming post about her dog Cleo along with a videoTwinkle Khanna took to Instagram to share a video of herself grooming her dog Cleo. Read more.Easy tips by Rujuta Diwekar to get through a weight loss plateauWeight loss plateaus can be very discouraging, especially after losing a significant amount of weight in the first phase of your fitness journey. Read more.KBC 13: Jaya Bachchan gives Amitabh Bachchan a stare down for comparing her to ‘earthquake’, she reveals the truthOn Friday's Shaandaar Shukravaar episode (Friday Special) of Kaun Banega Crorepati 13, Amitabh Bachchan welcomed his daughter Shweta Nanda and granddaughter Navya Naveli Nanda to the hot seat. Read more.
04-12-2021||India||Fully solar-powered, Cochin airport leaves Anand Mahindra impressed. See tweet||Businessman Anand Mahindra, who is often known for sharing interesting and trending aspects from his official Twitter handle, on Saturday praised the Cochin international airport for its design, cleanliness, efficiency, and renewable energy consumption. The chairman of the Mahindra Group, who was in Kerala's Kochi for a group conference, said that the airport serving the city should be a model for all other airports.The Mumbai-based business conglomerate was left impressed by the fact that the Cochin airport was designed using local architectural motifs, and that not only it is the first private airport in India, but also the first-of-its-kind in the entire world to be fully powered by solar energy. Mahindra also found the airport in Kerala to be quite compact, clean, and efficient, according to the tweet from his handle.“Leaving Kochi after a rewarding ⁦group conference. The airport⁩ is compact, designed using local architectural motifs & is clean & efficient. The 1st private airport in the country, the 1st in the world to be fully solar-powered. This is a model for ALL airports,” tweeted Anand MahindraLeaving Kochi after a rewarding ⁦group conference. The airport⁩ is compact, designed using local architectural motifs & is clean & efficient. The 1st private airport in the country, the 1st in the world to be fully solar powered. This is a model for ALL airports. 👏🏼👏🏼👏🏼 pic.twitter.com/m6sv7Hxh1xNotably, the Cochin international airport, situated about 25 kilometres away from the city centre, was the first-of-its-kind in India to be developed using a public-private partnership (PPP) model, which uses funds accumulated from nearly 10,000 non-resident Indians hailing from 30 countries. In addition to being the busiest and largest airport in India, the Cochin airport is also the fourth-busiest airport (in terms of international traffic) in the entire country.The Cochin airport became fully powered by solar energy back in 2015 after it started drawing power from a dedicated solar plant – the 15 megawatts (MW) photovoltaic power station built by the Cochin International Airport Limited. The solar plant operates on 46,150 photovoltaic panels, which are capable of generating 50,000 units of electricity daily. The airport even ambitiously plans to double this solar production within the next two years. The entrepreneurial vision won the airport in 2018 the much-coveted 'Champion of the Earth' award, which is the highest environmental honour granted by the United Nations.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/fully-solar-powered-cochin-airport-leaves-anand-mahindra-impressed-see-tweet-101638615381022.html
04-12-2021||India||India detects third Omicron case. What we know so far||India reported its third case of the Omicron on Saturday days after two people were found infected with the latest strain of the coronavirus in Karnataka, government officials said.The latest case of Omicron, marked as a "variant of concern" by the World Health Organization (WHO), comes on a day India reported 8,603 new Covid-19 cases, taking the country’s tally to 34.62 million.Gujarat's commissioner of health Jai Prakash Shivhare confirmed the man has tested positive for the Omicron variant of the coronavirus.Also read | 'Double vaccination first,' say Indian experts amid calls for booster shotsOfficials in Gujarat said the patient, who tested positive for Omicron, is a 72-year old man of Indian origin who has lived in Zimbabwe for decades and came to India last month.The health department said on Saturday the 72-year-old man has been found infected with the Omicron in Jamnagar of Gujarat, days after he came to the state from Zimbabwe, a high-risk country.Also read | Karnataka doctor with Omicron attended international medical conference: ReportsEuropean countries, including the UK, South Africa, Brazil, Botswana, China, Mauritius, New Zealand, Zimbabwe, Singapore, Hong Kong and Israel are the countries designated as "at-risk" by the Centre.Officials said the man arrived in Gujarat from Zimbabwe on November 28 and tested positive for coronavirus on December 2, after which his sample was sent for genome sequencing.Also read | Does our immune system needs to evolve with new, risky variants of coronavirus?Jamnagar municipal commissioner Vijaykumar Kharadi said the man’s sample was sent to Ahmedabad for genome sequencing to ascertain whether he was infected with the Omicron variant.The man, who hails from Jamnagar, has been living in Zimbabwe for the last many years. He arrived in the state to meet his father-in-law. After he got a fever, his doctor advised him to get an RT-PCR test done.Also read | 288 samples of foreign fliers sent for genome sequencing: Mumbai mayorThe private laboratory on Thursday informed the civic authorities that his report has come out positive for COVID-19, he said.Jamnagar municipal commissioner Kharadi said the man has been shifted to the isolation ward at the Guru Gobind Singh Government Hospital.According to officials, district authorities have already started his tracing his contact as per protocols.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/india-detects-third-omicron-case-what-we-know-so-far-101638615277619.html
04-12-2021||India||'Double vaccination first,' say Indian experts amid calls for booster shots||As calls for Covid-19 vaccine booster shots grow amid the emergence of Omicron, the new coronavirus variant, scientists are urging India should prioritise double vaccinating its eligible population first so that most people at least get the base layer of protection against the viral infection.Many countries have already started giving booster shots to their citizens in light of the new strain. India, however, is yet to consider booster shots even as several experts in the past few days have urged for the same.“We have a large proportion of our population in the below 18 age group. Until that is achieved, a uniform policy for a second booster, or a third dose, is not advisable,” news agency PTI quoted immunologist Vineeta Bal as saying.Adding to the argument, Satyajit Rath, from New Delhi's National Institute of Immunology (NII), said it is not clear if boosters are needed for any vaccine worldwide yet. “The duration of immune responses and protection are beginning to show differences, too, in recent studies. So I would be loath to jump the gun and say anything very definitive about boosters based on these data,” he told PTI.Also read | Omicron in India: Consider vaccine booster shots for 40+, says expert panelBal agreed that there is no solid data on waning immunity in India. In principle, of course, immunity will wane with time.“Antibody levels in serum will be lower six months down the road than soon after vaccination but that is not the only and adequate evidence of significant lowering of protective immunity which is based on immunological memory,” she added.Vasant Nagvekar, a consultant on infectious diseases at a Mumbai-based hospital and a member of the Maharashtra government's Covid-19 task force on Thursday, said a booster dose of vaccine, even if it works, is just a temporary fix and the emphasis should instead be on mask use.This discussion regarding the correct timing for a booster shot rekindled amid renewed fears over an impending third wave of the Coronavirus pandemic.In the meantime, the health community is trying to study Coronavirus's new variant which has multiple mutations and is being considered potentially more dangerous than its predecessors.The Indian SARS-CoV-2 Genomics Sequencing Consortium (INSACOG), a network of national testing labs that monitor genomic variations of Covid-19, has recommended a booster dose for those above 40 years in high-risk and high-exposure populations.Meanwhile, Union health minister Mansukh Mandaviya informed Parliament on Friday that a decision on booster dose will be taken on the basis of scientific guidance from experts.  At least 36 countries are administering booster doses of the Covid-19 vaccine, according to Our World in Data. However, the World Health Organization (WHO) wants the most vulnerable people worldwide to be fully vaccinated first.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/double-vaccination-first-say-indian-experts-amid-calls-for-booster-shots-101638613444490.html
04-12-2021||India||No relief for former president of Union Biblical Seminary in POSH case||The Bombay high court last week dismissed a petition by the former president of the Union Biblical Seminary in Pune, David G Samuel, questioning the jurisdiction of the Internal Complaints Committee (ICC) which held him guilty of sexually harassing an employee. On June 23, 2020, an employee of the seminary lodged a written complaint against Samuel under provisions of the Sexual Harassment of Women at Workplace (Prevention, Prohibition and Redressal) (POSH) Act, 2013. On November 3, the general body of the seminary resolved to constitute an internal committee to enquire into the allegation against Samuel. A fortnight later, one more female employee of the seminary lodged a similar complaint against Samuel. On January 25, the one-member panel submitted its report which held the president of the seminary guilty of sexual harassment at workplace, and on February 1, 2021, Samuel’s membership was terminated and he was removed from the post of the president of the governing board of trustees of the seminary. Samuel then moved the high court questioning the ICC report, primarily on the ground of jurisdiction. He argued that the ICC had no jurisdiction to enquire into the complaints since he was the employer of the complainant and therefore it should have been enquired into by the Local Complaints Committee, appointed by the Pune district collector. In support of his contentions, the lawyer relied on definitions of various terms used in the POSH Act. Also Read: Mumbai police charge-sheet against Param Bir Singh, Sachin Vaze in extortion caseThe argument, however, failed to impress the division bench of justice Gautam Patel and justice Madhav Jamdar. “The submission is misconceived,”the bench concluded after noting that the enactment defines “an employer” as any person responsible for the management, supervision and control of the workplace. Explaining the rational further, HC noted that since the business affairs of the seminary are carried out and managed by the governing board, which consists of 11 members, and the board as a composite body is responsible for the governance of the institution and therefore,“the president is not, by virtue of his office, solely in charge of the management, supervision and control of the working place.” The court said the POSH Act seeks to redress gender imbalances, inequalities and to prevent and prohibit sexual harassment of women in the workplace and the purpose would not be achieved if petitioner’s contentions were accepted. “Worse, it would require the two complainants to once again undergo a trauma of having to reagitate their complaints before a Local Complaints Committee,” said the court. “This is certainly not what the POSH Act contemplates.”...
04-12-2021||India||72-year-old from Gujarat tests positive for Omicron Covid-19 variant upon return from Zimbabwe, 3 cases so far in India||The third known case of the Omicron Covid-19 variant in India has been detected in Gujarat after a man from Jamnagar, who had returned from Zimbabwe, tested positive for the disease. The Gujarat health department on Saturday confirmed the state’s first Omicron case while two other cases have been reported earlier from Karnataka.A 72-year-old from Jamnagar had initially tested positive for the disease on Thursday after his return from Zimbabwe, following which his sample was sent for genome sequencing, news agency PTI reported citing the state health department.Jai Prakash Shivhar, Gujarat's commissioner of health, also confirmed that the elderly person has been infected with the Omicron variant.Also read | Karnataka doctor with Omicron attended international medical conference: ReportsAnother top official also said that a micro-containment zone has been formed around the infected person’s house and testing of people in that area would be carried out.“A person was found Omicron positive in Jamnagar. We have isolated him and are monitoring him. A micro containment zone has been made where he is living. In the area, we will do tracing, testing of people,” news agency ANI quoted Manoj Aggarwal, the additional chief secretary of the state health and family welfare department.Zimbabwe has been listed as one among the 11 ‘at-risk’ countries, the health ministry's list of countries where cases pertaining to the Omicron variant have been detected.According to the ministry’s latest guidelines, travellers from the 11 ‘at-risk’ countries will be subjected to a mandatory RT PCR test upon their arrival, the cost of which should be borne by the concerned traveller. If found positive, their sample would be collected for genome sequencing and they would be sent to isolation wards. On testing negative, they will be sent to a week-long home quarantine after which they would be tested again on the eighth day.In view of the Omicron variant, the state had recently extended the night curfew in its eight major cities until December 10, according to a news report by PTI. On Friday, the state reported 45 new Covid-19 cases and no new related deaths, as the total caseload reached 827,615 while the death toll remained unchanged at 10,094.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/72yearold-man-from-jamnagar-gujarat-tests-positive-for-omicron-covid-19-variant-after-returning-from-zimbabwe-3-cases-so-far-in-india-101638611047048.html
04-12-2021||India||Mumbai police file charge sheet against Param Bir Singh, Sachin Vaze||Mumbai crime branch on Saturday filed charge-sheet against former Mumbai police commissioner Param Bir Singh, dismissed assistant police inspector (API) Sachin Vaze and two others in an extortion case filed by a hotelier. This is the first charge-sheet filed against Singh, who faces total five FIRs in Mumbai and Thane. “We have collected evidence and recorded statements of many witnesses to establish how Singh and Vaze were running an extortion racket,” said special public prosecutor Shekhar Jagtap. Singh had recorded his statement in the case last week.Crime branch sources said the 1,895 page long charge-sheet against Singh and others contains statements of dozens of witnesses and it was filed before the Esplanade metropolitan magistrate court. Vaze was arrested by the National Investigation Agency (NIA) on March 13, in Antilia explosives scare case and the connected murder of Thane trader Mansukh Hiran. The Goregaon police had, on August 25, registered an extortion case against Singh, Vaze and others on the complaint by hotelier Bimal Agarwal, alleging that the accused extorted ₹11.92 lakh from him by threatening to register cases against two of the bars he operated in partnership.The offence had taken place between January 2020 and March 2021, police had earlier said. Later, the case was transferred to Unit 11 of the crime branch for investigation. Also Read: NCB wants to take over Maharashtra police cases, says Nawab MalikBesides Singh and Vaze, others charge-sheeted in the case include Alpesh Patel and Sumit Singh alias Chintu. while Vaze is in judicial custody, Patel and Sumit Singh are out on bail. Police are yet to file a charge-sheet against two more accused in the case – Vinay Singh and Riyaz Bhati. Singh, who was in hiding for months, showed up before the crime branch investigators early this week after the Supreme Court granted him protection from arrest.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/mumbai-police-charge-sheet-against-param-bir-singh-sachin-vaze-in-extortion-case-101638610453837.html
04-12-2021||India||Mustn’t repeat past mistakes in EV market, says Niti Aayog CEO||India must learn from its past mistakes made in the fields of electronics manufacturing and not repeat them in the field of electric mobility, the chief executive officer (CEO) of Niti Aayog, Amitabh Kant said on Friday. Addressing a roundtable to promote electric mobility,organised by the ministry of heavy industries, currently underway in Goa, Amitabh Kant said that making India a global leader in electric vehicle manufacturing will help India move to sunrise sector industries. “Those countries that go digital and go green will attract valuation and attract investment and those that do not go green and digital will go dead. There will be no future for those countries. This disruption is absolutely clear. This writing is on the wall that by 2025 there will be no combustion 2-3 wheelers left,” Kant said. “In the last 70 years India has always been getting into the sunset areas of industry. And by the time you get into the sunset areas of industry it is too late. By that time the Chinese and other countries have already taken the market and they have the size and scale. And once they have the size and scale you’ll never be able to penetrate global markets. Therefore we are saying that you get into the sunrise areas of the future and these are the areas if you get in you will become a global champion,” he said. “One of the lessons we learnt was, that in mobile phones, the market grew in India but we became import dependent. What we learned in solar [is that] the market grew in India but we became import dependent. Let us not make that mistake in the world of [electric] mobility. We must make India the centre of manufacturing both for the Indian market and for the rest of the world. And that is now dependent on all of you to make the states of India the centre of manufacturing,” he said. Also Read: PM Modi lays foundation for Delhi-Dehradun economic corridor “Our vision is battery storage, green hydrogen and renewables. And we are not talking about India. We are talking about making India the biggest player in the world. India must become the biggest manufacturer of battery storage, of green hydrogen, the biggest exporter of green hydrogen, the biggest exporter of battery storage. Must become the centre of compact car manufacturing, the biggest manufacturer of two wheelers, three wheelers, four wheelers of green vehicles. So you are looking at the world as a market. Don’t look at India. Look at the world as your market,” he told the gathering that included state transport ministers from most states as well as representatives of private industry. He added that India must become a centre for the world which was going through “disruption” and bring in new technology or and go green if didn’t want to loose out . The roundtable is being organized to bring together all stakeholders including the Centre, states and UTs, leaders of the auto and automotive parts industries, start-ups and technical experts and it aims to work out strategies to promote adoption of electric vehicles in India and attract investment in manufacturing of EVs, batteries and high technology automotive components.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/mustnt-repeat-mistakes-of-mobile-solar-manufacturing-with-ev-market-niti-aayog-ceo-101638607393454.html
04-12-2021||India||PM Modi inaugurates, lays foundation stone for multiple projects worth ₹18,000 cr in Dehradun||Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Saturday inaugurated and laid the foundation stone for multiple development projects worth around ₹18,000 crores in Dehradun, Uttarakhand. The Prime Minister laid the foundation stone of eleven development projects including the Delhi-Dehradun Economic Corridor (from Eastern Peripheral Expressway Junction to Dehradun) which will be built at a cost of around ₹8300 crore.In major highglight, the corrirdor will significantly reduce the travel time from Delhi to Dehradun from six hours to around 2.5 hours.The corridor will have seven major interchanges for connectivity to Haridwar, Muzaffarnagar, Shamli, Yamunagar, Baghpat, Meerut and Baraut. It will also have Asia's largest wildlife elevated corridor (12 kilometres) for unrestricted wildlife movement. Also, the 340 metres long tunnel near Dat Kaali temple, Dehradun will help reduce impact on wildlife.“Today, India is moving ahead with the intention of investing more than Rs.100 lakh crores on modern infrastructure," PM Modi said while addressing a rally after launch event.  “ In the last 5 years, the Centre has approved more than ₹1 lakh crores for the development of Uttarakhand. More than ₹18,000 crores have been invested in today's developmental projects," he noted.“Today, India is moving forward with the intention of investing more than ₹100 lakh crores in modern infrastructure: PM Narendra Modi in Dehradun, Uttarakhand," PM Modi also said.Praising the construction of the Delhi-Dehradun economic corridor, PM Modi said, “Today, I am very happy that the foundation stone of the corridor has been laid. When it is ready, the time taken to travel from Delhi to Dehradun will be almost halved."Uttarakhand chief minister Pushkar Singh Dhami was also present at the event along with other senior officials. PM Modi also laid the foundation stone for Dehradun - Paonta Sahib (Himachal Pradesh) road project, being constructed at a cost of around ₹1700 crore. After completion, the it will reduce travel time and provide seamless connectivity between the two places. It will also boost inter-state tourism. The Najibabad-Kotdwar road widening project will reduce travel time and also improve connectivity to Lansdowne.Accoriding to official statement, a bridge across River Ganga next to the Laksham Jhula will also be constructed. The world-renowned Lakshman Jhula was constructed in 1929, but has now been closed due to decreased load carrying capacity. It will also have a provision of a glass deck for people walking, and will also allow light weight vehicles to move across.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/pm-modi-lays-foundation-for-delhi-dehradun-economic-corridor-101638604849893.html
04-12-2021||India||Karnataka doctor with Omicron attended international medical conference: Reports||One of the two confirmed Omicron cases in India is a 46-year-old doctor who has no foreign travel history. According to the information of the Bruhat Bengaluru Mahanagara Palike, his sample was sent for genome sequencing just by chance, as the CT value in his Covid test was 13, which indicates a very heavy viral load. Apart from tiredness, the doctor did not exhibit any other symptoms and is fine now, according to reports. As the government is now tracing the possible sources from where he might have been infected by the new variant, it has been found that the doctor had attended an international conference that was held between November 18 and November 20.According to reports, the doctor attended the event on November 20, the last day. Just a day after, he complained of fever and body ache and got tested. If the doctor has contracted the Omicron variant from that international event, which was attended by many foreign delegates, then it is a cause of worry for the administration as the conference, in that case, may turn out to be a 'superspreader'.But since the symptoms surfaced only a day after the doctor attended the conference, the possibility that he might have contracted it before attending the conference remains there as symptoms take some time to be noticed.Reports said the doctor was on the hospital premises on November 19 and the last surgery he performed was on November 17. Since he is an anesthesiologist, he does not come in direct contact with the patients and the hospital authorities said the hospital premises is safe.The 66-year-old South African national who is another Omicron case of India has left the country on November 27 with a negative Covid certificate that he got from a private testing facility. The Karnataka government has ordered a probe into the incident as chief minister Basavaraj Bommai said it is a bit doubtful that three days after being tested positive, he tested negative.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/karnataka-doctor-with-omicron-attended-international-medical-conference-reports-101638606829058.html
04-12-2021||India||News updates from HT: 288 samples of foreign fliers sent for genome sequencing and all the latest news||Here are today’s top news, analysis and opinion. Know all about the latest news and other news updates from Hindustan Times.288 samples of foreign fliers sent for genome sequencing: Mumbai mayorAs many 288 samples of international travellers have been sent for genome sequencing in Mumbai, Maharashtra, the city's mayor Kishori Pednekar informed on Saturday. Read MoreCalling up 5 times: How Mumbai will ensure no foreign traveller is off the radarAmid the threat of Omicron, the new Covid variant which has been reported from Bengaluru, the Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation has come up with a new guideline to ensure there is constant monitoring of the international passengers coming from high-risk and at-risk countries. Read More‘BJP will win Uttar Pradesh polls with overwhelming majority’: Amit Shah at HTLSUnion home minister Amit Shah said that Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) will return to power in Uttar Pradesh with “overwhelming majority”. He was speaking at Hindustan Times Leadership Summit (HTLS). Read MoreMixtape movie review: Netflix’s teen drama is a nostalgic fest that will tug at your heartstringsA film opening with Donna Lewis’ I Love You Always Forever and fireworks in the night sky might seem like a little bit of a cliche but it turns out to be the perfect prologue for Netflix’s teen drama, Mixtape. Read MorePadma Lakshmi shows her reaction to those who don’t like Indian food with memeAuthor and TV host Padma Lakshmi recently took to Twitter to share a meme featuring herself to react to those who don’t like Indian food. There is a chance that her share will leave you giggling hard. Also, it may make you nod in agreement. Read MoreWatch | 'Army doing great job but...': Ghulam Nabi's advice to security forces in J&K||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/news-updates-from-ht-288-samples-of-foreign-fliers-sent-for-genome-sequencing-and-all-the-latest-news-101638603042702.html
04-12-2021||India||288 samples of foreign fliers sent for genome sequencing: Mumbai mayor||As many 288 samples of international travellers have been sent for genome sequencing in Mumbai, Maharashtra, the city's mayor Kishori Pednekar informed on Saturday. The administration is on constant alert about people returning from the so-called "at-risk" countries, she also said, adding it "has prepared a complete action plan for it," the news agency ANI reported."The airport authorities have been directed to inform our disaster control room on arrivals from these countries," she also said. Ten ambulances will also be kept on stand by in each ward, she also said as per ANI.Earlier in the day, the civic body of Mumbai released a new standard operating procedure (SOP) as concerns regarding the Omnicron variant of the coronavirus gripped the country.As per the revised guidelines, seven-day home quarantine of people arriving in the city from high-risk countries is mandatory. According to the health ministry, the countries designated as "at-risk" are the European countries, the UK, South Africa, Brazil, Botswana, China, Mauritius, New Zealand, Zimbabwe, Singapore, Hong Kong and Israel.According to the order, the Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) will also receive a list of passengers, who arrive from the countries defined as "high-risk" or "at risk" by the Union health ministry. The list will include the detailed address and contact numbers of these travellers.After getting the list, "its staff will contact the passengers to inform them to remain home quarantined for the next seven days. Adherence to the home quarantine order is mandatory and the passengers will be shifted to government-run institutions if they are found violating it," the civic body stated in the order."An RT-PCR test will be conducted after seven days and necessary steps will be taken accordingly," the order added.The Omicron strain, first detected in South Africa, has been classified as a 'variant of concern' by the World Health Organization (WHO). The first cases of the Omicron variant in India have been confirmed in two individuals in Karnataka.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/288-samples-of-foreign-fliers-sent-for-genome-sequencing-mumbai-mayor-101638602237478.html
04-12-2021||India||Calling up 5 times: How Mumbai will ensure no foreign traveller is off the radar||Amid the threat of Omicron, the new Covid variant which has been reported from Bengaluru, the Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation has come up with a new guideline to ensure there is constant monitoring of the international passengers coming from high-risk and at-risk countries. The guideline includes calling these people up even five times a day for the seven days they are supposed to be under home quarantine. According to the guidelines, the surveillance will be done at the micro-level by the ward administration. Covid war rooms set up at each ward of the municipality are in charge of the monitoring.Here is how the 24X7 monitoring will go on for 7 days1. Every day at 9am, the Mumbai airport authorities will send a list of international passengers who have arrived in the city in the preceding 24 hours.2. Those who have mentioned Municipal Corporation of Greater Mumbai as their location will only be monitored.3. The list will get segregated into 24 wards based on the addresses given through software.4. At 10am every day, the ward war rooms will receive the list of passengers in their areas.5. They will call each of the passengers and politely inform them that they will have to remain isolated at their address for seven days.6. The war room will ensure that all quarantine rules are being followed and they will call these people up five times a day to monitor their health status.7. A letter will be issued to the housing society where these people are staying informing them that they are supposed to be under home isolation for 7 days.8. On the 7th day of the home quarantine, the ward war room will ensure that they undergo an RT-PCR test. If required, they can send their own medical team for the purpose of the test.9. If anyone complains of any symptom, the war room will decide the future course of action. Ward doctors can offer them advice through telephone "in a reassuring and polite manner".10. Each ward war room will have 10 functional ambulances ready and the medical team are supposed to physically visit these people from time to time during these 7 days.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/calling-up-5-times-how-mumbai-will-ensure-no-foreign-traveller-is-off-the-radar-101638600402079.html
04-12-2021||India||Former Andhra CM and ex-governor of Tamil Nadu K Rosaiah passes away||Veteran Congress leader and former chief minister of combined Andhra Pradesh who later served as the governor of Tamil Nadu, Konijeti Rosaiahdied on Saturday morning following a cardiac stroke. The 88 year old leader is survived by his wife, three sons and a daughter.According to his family members, Rosaiah experienced a sudden fall in blood pressure in the morning at his Ameerpet residence in Hyderabad before being rushed to Star Hospitals in Banjara Hills, where he was declared brought dead.A bulletin from the hospital said the former chief minister was brought in an unresponsive state and was declared dead at 8.20 am.Born on July 4, 1933 at Vemuru village of Guntur district, Rosaiah was in politics for over six decades. It started at Hindu College in Guntur district as a student union leader while studying commerce.A disciple of Swatantra Party leader N G Ranga, Rosaiah later joined the Congress party and was a four-term member of the state legislative council in 1968, 1974, 1980 and 2009 and was twice elected a member of the legislative assembly of the undivided Andhra Pradesh in 1989 and 2004from Chirala assembly constituency in Prakasam district. He was also elected a Member of Parliament (MP) from Narsaraopet parliamentary constituency in 1998.As a minister, Rosaiah served many Congress chief ministers including Marri Channa Reddy in 1978 to YS Rajasekhar Reddy in 2004-09. He held several prominent portfolios but was very popular as the finance minister of YS Rajasekhar Reddy state cabinet.After the sudden demise of YSR in a helicopter crash on September 2, 2009, he took over as the chief minister of Andhra Pradesh and held the post till November 4, 2010, when he was replaced by N Kiran Kumar Reddy.Also Read | ‘BJP will win Uttar Pradesh polls with overwhelming majority’: Amit Shah at HTLSIt was during his stint as Andhra Pradesh chief minister that the separate Telangana movement reached its peak, forcing the commencement of the process of Telangana state formation.On August 31, 2011, Rosaiah was sworn in as the governor of Tamil Nadu and continued in the post till August 30, 2016. For a brief period between July and September, 2014, Rosaiah was also the acting governor of Karnataka.After his tenure as governor ended, Rosaiah kept away from active politics and attended social functions occasionally.Andhra Pradesh CM YS Jagan Mohan Reddy, Telangana chief minister K Chandrasekhar Rao, Telangana Congress unit chief A Revanth Reddy and several other leaders expressed condolences over his demise.
04-12-2021||India||Covid-19: This district in Tamil Nadu has decided to close shops, public places for unvaccinated||A week’s time has been given to the residents of Madurai in southern Tamil Nadu by the district administration for getting at least one dose of the Covid-19 vaccine following which, those unvaccinated would be barred entry from public places and commercial establishments.The announcement was made by district collector Aneesh Sekhar, who said that only people possessing a vaccine certificate will be allowed in public places.“One week's time has been given to people to get at least one dose of Covid-19 vaccine, failing which those unvaccinated people to be not allowed to enter public places like hotels, shopping malls and other commercial establishments,” news agency ANI quoted the collector as saying.With a week’s time left, according to the administration’s announcement, close to 300,000 people are yet to receive even one dose of the vaccine, the collector said. He further insisted that at least one dose was necessary for the people to visit public places.Also read | Omicron: Tamil Nadu issues new SOPs; unvaccinated people to be restricted“Only people with a coronavirus vaccine certificate should be allowed in crowded places. People without the vaccine will not be allowed in hotels, hostels, bars, shopping malls, businesses, factories, businesses, educational institutions, wedding halls, theatres, markets, and wine shops. People coming to public places should be vaccinated with at least the first dose,” he said.Similar restrictions have also been implemented in Tamil Nadu’s neighbouring Karnataka where only vaccinated people would be allowed in public places. The measures were implemented after the state detected the first two cases of the Omicron variant in the country.The coercive measure from the Madurai administration came after state health minister Ma Subramanian on Wednesday (December 1) said that the state government has asked district officials to restrict the movement of unvaccinated people among the public. The move has been intended at increasing the vaccination rate and coverage.“We have instructed district collectors to take steps on restrictions for non-vaccinated people and ensure that they do not come in public places. We want to ensure that people get vaccinated without fail,” ANI quoted the minister as saying earlier.Tamil Nadu has reported two international passengers – one from the UK and another from Singapore – who have tested positive for coronavirus at the Chennai and Tiruchirapalli international airports respectively. Following this, the airports in Chennai, Madurai and Coimbatore started compulsory testing of passengers arriving from the ‘at-risk’ nations listed by the Union health ministry, Subramanian said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/covid19-this-district-in-tamil-nadu-has-decided-to-close-shops-public-places-for-unvaccinated-101638598531809.html
04-12-2021||India||Govt clears ₹5,100-cr project to make AK-203 rifles with Russia in Amethi||NEW DELHI: The government has cleared a plan for the joint production of more than 500,000 AK-203 assault rifles with Russia to boost self-reliance in the defence manufacturing sector. The decision comes ahead of Russian President Vladimir Putin’s visit to India on December 6 for an annual summit with Prime Minister Narendra Modi, officials familiar with the matter said on Saturday.The Cabinet Committee on Security (CCS), headed by PM Modi, on Wednesday approved the ₹5,100-crore project to jointly manufacture the rifles at a facility in Uttar Pradesh’s Amethi.“The approval reflects the paradigm shift in defence acquisition from buy (global) to Make in India. The endeavour also reflects the deepening partnership between the two countries,” said one of the officials.The AK-203 assault rifles will replace the in-service INSAS rifles inducted more than three decades ago.“The project will provide business opportunities to various Micro, Small & Medium Enterprises and other defence firms for supply of raw material and components, which will lead to the generation of new employment opportunities,” he said.The project will be implemented by a special purpose joint venture called Indo-Russian Rifles Private Ltd (IRRPL). It has been created with the erstwhile OFB (now Advanced Weapons and Equipment India Limited and Munitions India Limited) of India, and Rosoboronexport and Kalashnikov of Russia.Last month, the defence acquisition council (DAC) – India’s apex military procurement body – granted some key approvals to accelerate the acquisition of AK-203 assault rifles to be made in India with the transfer of technology from Russia.Putin’s visit to India will have a major defence and security overhang. The delivery of the first squadron of S-400 air defence systems – part of a $5.4-billion contract with Russia for five systems – is expected to coincide with Putin’s visit.India and Russia last week announced they will hold the maiden 2+2 dialogue of their defence and foreign ministers on the margins of the annual summit between Modi and Putin.This will only be Putin’s second foreign visit since the Covid-19 outbreak – he travelled to Geneva in June for his first meeting with US President Joe Biden. Putin’s decision to travel to New Delhi reflects the importance attached by Russia to its special and privileged strategic partnership with India.India and Russia are also expected to renew their military-technical cooperation arrangement for the period 2021-31 and sign several defence-related agreements during the summit. A key pact that could be inked is the Reciprocal Exchange of Logistics Agreement (RELOS), which will allow militaries of the two nations to access logistics and support facilities at each other’s bases.
04-12-2021||India||India reports 8,603 new Covid-19 cases, 415 deaths in 24 hours, active cases below 100,000 for 4th day||India on Saturday saw its daily Covid-19 caseload fall marginally after 8,603 new cases were reported from across the country. Also 415 more people succumbed to their infections in the last 24 hours. With this, the total confirmed cases reached 34,624,360 and the death toll climbed to 470,530, the Union health ministry’s Covid-19 dashboard showed.#Unite2FightCorona#LargestVaccineDrive𝐂𝐎𝐕𝐈𝐃 𝐅𝐋𝐀𝐒𝐇https://t.co/VsqAenW96E pic.twitter.com/ytxhaDx7EHThe active caseload virtually remained at the same level as earlier after it fell by only two cases and stood at 99,974. It went below the 100,000-mark on December 1 and has remained so for the fourth straight day.“Active cases account for less than 1% of total cases, currently at 0.29%; Lowest since March 2020,” the ministry said in a statement.As many as 8,190 people recovered from the illness in the last 24 hours taking the cumulative recoveries so far to 34,053,856 with a recovery rate of 98.35%.Also read | Omicron variant: What we know so far on cases in India and vaccine efficacyWith 1,252,596 samples tested for the viral infection in the last 24 hours, the total samples tested so far stood at 646,026,786, the Indian Council for Medical Research (ICMR) said.Meanwhile, the cumulative number of doses administered under the country’s immunisation drive crossed the 1.26-billion mark – 1,265,344,975 doses administered as of 8am – according to the latest data. Also, more than 213 million doses of the vaccine remain unutilised with states and Union territories, the ministry said.“More than 138 crore (1,38,95,38,030) vaccine doses have been provided to States/UTs so far through Govt of India (free of cost channel) and through direct state procurement category. More than 21.38 Cr (21,38,89,971) balance and unutilized COVID Vaccine doses are still available with the States/UTs to be administered,” it said in a statement.Union health minister Mansukh Mandaviya, during the ongoing Winter Session of Parliament, said that the Centre is taking measures to tackle the new Omicron (B.1.1.529) variant. Regarding booster doses and vaccination of children, he said that the Centre would only go by scientific advice.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/india-reports-8-603-new-covid-19-cases-415-deaths-in-24-hours-active-cases-below-100-000-for-4th-day-101638595468287.html
04-12-2021||India||Cyclone Jawad to hit Andhra Pradesh: Govt evacuates over 54 thousands; 11 NDRF teams deployed||More than 54 thousand people were evacuated from the three districts of Andhra Pradesh as cyclone Jawad is likely to hit the northern coastal area of the state. The Andhra Pradesh government moved 15,755 people from Srikakulam district, 1,700 from Vizianagaram and 36,553 from Visakhapatnam to safety, according to news agency ANI.As many as 11 teams of the National Disaster Response Force (NDRF), and five teams of State Disaster Response Force (SDRF) have been deployed for relief work. Along with this, six coast guard and ten marine police teams are also in place for rescue work.AK Satpathy of divisional railway, said “Waltair Division of East Coast Railway is prepared to face the challenges posed by cyclone Jawad." “We are in touch with the state govt, SDRF, NDRF and other agencies. Our personnel are on alert and in full preparedness," he also said. The state government has also set up 197 relief camps in schools and community halls. Village secretaries and District collectors are working throughout the night.Meanwhile, two helicopters are also kept on standby for emergency situations. In view of the cyclone, the state government has released ₹1 crore to tackle any unforeseen situation, ANI also reported.As depression over the southeast Bay of Bengal is likely to intensify as Cyclonic Storm, 'Jawad' and moving North Westerly direction and is likely to cross the coasts of north Andhra Pradesh and south Odisha on Saturday morning, Indian Navy is closely monitoring the movement of the Cyclonic Storm.According to the Met department, Cyclone Jawad lay centred at 5:30 pm of Friday over the west central Bay of Bengal, about 300 km south-SE of Visakhapatnam, 420 km nearly south of Gopalpur, 480 km south-SW of Puri & 560 km south-southwest of Paradip.The weather department has forecasted heavy to very heavy rainfall. The winds would range up to 90-100 kmph accompanied by tidal waves.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/cyclone-jawad-to-hit-andhra-pradesh-govt-evacuates-over-54-thousands-11-ndrf-teams-deployed-101638591449739.html
04-12-2021||India||Navy Day 2021: President, other leaders remember success of 'Operation Trident'||The Indian Navy is commemorating it’s the success of its ‘Operation Trident’ during the 1971 War by marking the Navy Day. President Ram Nath Kovind and many senior leaders greeted the naval personnel and the families on the occasion.“On Navy Day, greetings to all Navy personnel, veterans and their families. Besides safeguarding maritime security and protecting our interests in the sea, our Navy also played a stellar role in coping with the COVID-19 related crises. Indians remain grateful for your service,” President Kovind said on Twitter.On Navy Day, greetings to all Navy personnel, veterans and their families. Besides safeguarding maritime security and protecting our interests in the sea, our Navy also played a stellar role in coping with the COVID-19 related crises. Indians remain grateful for your service.Defence minister Rajnath Singh called Navy an “outstanding force” which protects national interest.“On this special day commemorating Indian Navy’s daring ‘Operation Trident’ during #1971War, my greetings and best wishes to all personnel of this outstanding force which continues to protect our National Interest through Maritime Security,” he said in his tweet.On this special day commemorating Indian Navy’s daring ‘Operation Trident’ during #1971War, my greetings and best wishes to all personnel of this outstanding force which continues to protect our National Interest through Maritime Security.#SwarnimVijayVarsh @indiannavy pic.twitter.com/bcbQG45svNOn December 4, during the 1971 Indo-Pak War, the Indian Navy played a significant role in the bombing of Karachi harbour, when Operation Trident was launched. Owing to its success, since then December 4 is celebrated as Navy Day."On the occasion of Navy Day2021, we reaffirm Indian Navy's unwavering commitment to preserve, protect and promote India's maritime interest, pay homage to supreme sacrifices of our bravehearts and express gratitude to our veterans,” said Admiral R Hari Kumar.Other leaders too, like Union home minister Amit Shah and Uttar Pradesh chief minister Yogi Adityanath also wished the Navy on the occasion.“Greetings to our brave Indian Navy personnel and their families on the special occasion of #NavyDay. The nation is proud of our valorous Naval force for their commitment towards securing India's maritime interests and helping the countrymen during the civil emergencies,” Shah said on Twitter.Greetings to our brave Indian Navy personnel and their families on the special occasion of #NavyDay.The nation is proud of our valorous Naval force for their commitment towards securing India's maritime interests and helping the countrymen during the civil emergencies.“Salute to the bravery of all the navy personnel serving to protect the country's maritime borders. Wishing you all a very Happy Indian Navy Day. We are all proud of your unwavering commitment, valour and courage to serve and protect the nation,” Adityanath said on Koo.Operation Trident caused heavy damage to Pakistan’s vessels. It was during this operation that an anti-ship missile ship was used for the first time. Nearly 300 soldiers laid down their lives and around 700 were injured during the course of this particular operation.During Operation Trident, the Indian Navy sank four Pakistani vessels and severely damaged Karachi harbour fuel fields.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/navy-day-2021-president-other-leaders-remember-operation-trident-success-101638590276868.html
04-12-2021||India||Mahua Moitra says she stands by her tweets on Adani, after Mamata-Adani meeting||Trinamool MP Mahua Moitra was questioned on Friday about her stand on Adani following West Bengal chief minister Mamata Banerjee's meeting with Gautam Adani, as in past she has remained a vociferous critic of the industrialist. Making a collection of all of Moitra's past tweets against Adani, CPM leader MD Salim tweeted it is only a matter of time before the Trinamool MP deletes her old tweets. Some Twitter users also claimed that Moitra has deleted her old tweets on Adani. Moitra said she has not deleted those tweets as she stands by what she had said. "Tweets are still there. I stand by them," the Trinamool MP said. Tweets are still there. I stand by themGautam Adani met Mamata Banerjee at Nabanna on Thursday evening and investment prospects were discussed in the 90-minute meeting. Mamata Banerjee invited Adani to the Bengal Global Business Summit in Kolkata on April 20. Prime Minister Narendra Modi has been invited to inaugurate the summit.
04-12-2021||India||Delhi-Dehradun economic corridor: How ₹8,300 crore project will boost connectivity||Prime Minister Narendra Modi will on Saturday lay the foundation stone for the Delhi-Dehradun economic corridor, which will be built at a cost of around ₹8,300 crore.The new road will significantly cut the travel time between Delhi and Uttarakhand’s capital Dehradun from the present six hours to 2.5 hours.According to Prime Minister’s Office (PMO), PM Modi will also inaugurate and lay foundation stones for various other projects, which will improve infrastructure. "A significant focus of the visit will be on projects to improve road infrastructure, which will make travel smooth and safer, and also increase tourism in the region. This is in line with the vision of the Prime Minister to boost connectivity in the areas which were once considered far-flung," the PMO said in a release.Here’s everything you need to know about the road connecting Delhi with Dehradun:• The Delhi-Dehradun economic corridor will stretch from the Eastern Peripheral Expressway Junction to Dehradun.• The corridor is likely to reduce the distance between Delhi and Dehradun from 235 kilometres to 210 kilometres.• It will have seven major interchanges for connectivity to Haridwar, Muzaffarnagar, Shamli, Yamunagar, Baghpat, Meerut and Baraut.• The proposed road will also have Asia's largest wildlife elevated corridor - or around 12 kilometres - for unrestricted wildlife movement, according to PMO.• Since Uttarakhand is known for its natural beauty and a rich wildlife, the corridor will also have animal passes for avoiding animal-vehicle collisions. These passes will primarily be built in the Ganeshpur-Dehradun section.• A serious thought has been given not let the rainwater go waste. The economic corridor will have arrangements for rainwater harvesting at intervals of 500 metres and over 400 water recharge points.• The greenfield alignment project from Delhi-Dehradun Economic Corridor, connecting Halgoa, Saharanpur to Bhadrabad, Haridwar will be constructed at a cost of over ₹2,000 crore.• Also being inaugurated are the road widening project from Devprayag to Srikot, and from Brahmpuri to Kodiyala on NH-58, under Char Dham road connectivity project.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/delhidehradun-economic-corridor-how-the-project-will-boost-connectivity-101638588505243.html
04-12-2021||India||News updates from HT: Modi to lay foundation of Delhi-Dehradun Economic Corridor today and all the latest news||Here are today-’s top news, analysis and opinion. Know all about the latest news and other news updates from Hindustan Times.PM Modi in Dehradun today, to lay foundation of Delhi-Dehradun Economic CorridorPrime Minister Narendra Modi will visit Dehradun, Uttarakhand on Saturday, where he is scheduled to inaugurate and lay the foundation stone of multiple projects including the ambitious Delhi-Dehradun Economic Corridor worth around ₹18,000 crore. Read more‘Will discuss how agitation moves forward’: BKU’s Rakesh Tikait on key SKM meeting todaySome key decisions regarding the future course of action about the ongoing farmers’ protest are likely to be decided during a meeting of the Samyukt Kisan Morcha (SKM), an umbrella body of several farmer unions, to be held on Saturday. Read more'It is a no-brainer that he was not out': Five former India, New Zealand cricketers debate over Kohli's dubious LBW callThere were two big talking points from Day 1 of the second Test between India and New Zealand being played at Mumbai's Wankhede Stadium. Read moreAbhishek Bachchan says Aaradhya found his Bob Biswas look ‘cute’, reveals Aishwarya Rai-Jaya Bachchan’s reactionAround a decade ago, Abhishek Bachchan was offered the role of Bob Biswas in Kahaani but was forced to turn it down. The film became a sleeper hit and the character, which was essayed by Saswata Chatterjee, became so popular that it got a standalone film of its own. Read moreKiara Advani's yellow sharara is an absolute steal for wedding haldi look, brides-to-be take notesActor Kiara Advani is taking contemporary ethnic fashion to new heights. And each look is equally better. Recently, the star wore a note-worthy lehenga set that had all the makings of a perfect wedding look. Read moreOmicron scare: Karnataka govt says one patient ‘escaped’One of the Omicron infected patients in Karnataka escaped, the state govt said on December 3. The 66-year-old South African fled after taking a covid negative certificate from a private lab. Watch here||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/news-updates-from-ht-modi-to-lay-foundation-of-delhi-dehradun-economic-corridor-today-and-all-the-latest-news-101638587406104.html
04-12-2021||India||‘Will discuss how agitation moves forward’: BKU’s Rakesh Tikait on key SKM meeting today||Some key decisions regarding the future course of action about the ongoing farmers’ protest are likely to be decided during a meeting of the Samyukt Kisan Morcha (SKM), an umbrella body of several farmer unions, to be held on Saturday. The meeting comes as the Union government has taken back the three contentious farm laws by passing the Farm Laws Repeal Bill, 2021, in Parliament during the ongoing Winter Session.The farmers have said that the repeal was only one among several of their demands, including a legal guarantee on the minimum support price (MSP).Rakesh Tikait, leader of the Bharatiya Kisan Union (BKU), said that the meeting would mainly discuss how the demonstrations would move further. “Our demand for MSP is from the Government of India. The talks have just started, we will see how it goes. We won't develop any strategies today, we will only discuss how the agitation moves forward,” news agency ANI quoted Tikait as saying.The comment from Tikait came after a meeting between Haryana chief minister Manohar Lal Khattar and farmer leaders from the state on Friday. “Talks between Haryana CM and farmers yesterday remained inconclusive, although they have agreed to take back the cases registered against farmers. Like Punjab, we need state-wise compensation for deaths of farmers and employment,” Tikait said about this meeting.Also read | Approached by Centre to join panel proposed by PM Modi: SKMThe farmers met Khattar with a list of demands that included the withdrawal of cases against the farmers who took part in the protests, compensation and a government job to the families of those that lost their lives during the protests and space for setting up a memorial at Kundli border. However, the farmer leaders after the meeting said that it remained inconclusive with no guarantee or agreement of any kind reached with the CM regarding the demands.Following the meeting, Gurnam Singh Chaduni, leader of the Bharatiya Kisan Union (Chaduni), said that the farmers would decide the next course of action during the SKM’s meeting on the day. “The net result after our talks is that there was no agreement reached on our demands,” news agency PTI quoted him as saying.“We did not get a satisfactory reply from the government. Talks broke down and the rest we will decide in tomorrow's SKM meeting,” he added.On November 28, the SKM called off a planned tractor march to Parliament on November 29 and said that it would wait until December 4 for the Union government to formally respond to its demands, which it had stated in an open letter to Prime Minister Narendra Modi.Union agriculture minister Narendra Singh Tomar had urged the protesting farmers to return to their homes after the repeal of the farm laws. During the Winter Session, Tomar also informed the Lok Sabha that the Centre had no record of the number of farmers who died during the protests and the question of giving financial aid or compensation to their families “does not arise.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/will-discuss-how-agitation-moves-forward-bku-s-rakesh-tikait-on-key-skm-meeting-today-101638587574664.html
04-12-2021||India||Mysterious lights in sky leave Pathankot residents puzzled||The residents of Punjab’s Pathankot were surprised to see a line of bright light in the night sky on Friday. The phenomenon also generated a lot of buzz on social media platforms like Twitter.According to locals, the ray of mysterious lights darting through the sky was spotted at around 7pm and was visible for five minutes.The lights could be seen blinking in a straight line.There has been no official word about these lights, nor has any expert offered any comment. But the phenomenon generated a lot of chatter on Twitter.Mysterious lights seen in the sky in Jammu and Punjab's Pathankot.Yeah i saw it too today evening at PathankotThis is not the first time that such a thing has been seen in the night sky. Mysterious rows of bright blinking lights were seen gliding across the sky in Gujarat's Junagadh in June this year. It had triggered speculation of Unidentified Flying Objects (UFOs).In videos and pictures of the phenomenon that surfaced online, about four to seven bright shining lights could be seen gliding in the row in the sky. However, the experts dismissed the reports that it was a UFO.Narottam Sahoo, Advisor at Gujarat Council of Science and Technology (GUJCOST), had said that the light sighting could be because of some satellite passing through the low earth orbit.He had added that there are more than 3,000 satellites functional in the lower orbit of the Earth.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/mysterious-lights-in-sky-leave-pathankot-residents-puzzled-101638586490284.html
04-12-2021||India||'Do not switch off mobiles, not right way': Karnataka minister as foreign nationals go missing||Amid reports of several foreign nationals becoming untraceable after landing in Bengaluru, Karnataka health minister Dr K Sudhakar said the police are efficient enough to track these people, but this is not the right way. Passengers should behave responsibly. "But my appeal is that no one should switch off their mobiles and go untraceable. It is not the right way. They should behave responsibly," the minister said.Karnataka which has reported two Omicron cases is not alone in facing the problem of missing international passengers. Chief medical officer of Uttar Pradesh's Meerut, Dr Akhilesh Mohan said some foreign nationals have given wrong mobile numbers and addresses to the administration. At least 13 out of 297 foreign returnees have done this, Dr Mohan told ANI.In Chandigarh, a woman who returned from South Africa reportedly broke home quarantine and went to a five-star hotel inviting strict action from the administration.Two Omicron cases have been confirmed in India while several suspected samples have been submitted for genome sequencing. The first Omicron case was also a South African national who flew to Dubai after testing Covid negative within days of testing positive.The Karnataka government has already ordered a probe into the first case of Omicron in the state as well as the country as the South African national travelled to Dubai within a week after testing positive. According to reports, he tested negative at a private testing facility which has now come on the radar of the government. However, all his primary and secondary contacts have tested negative."The person (66-year-old) had isolated at a hotel and he has gone from there (outside the country). First, his (Covid test) report came positive and then the re-test came negative. Whether there was any mishandling, whether the lab tests were accurate or were there any wrongdoing, the police commissioner has been directed to investigate this," revenue minister R Ashoka said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/do-not-switch-off-mobiles-not-right-way-karnataka-minister-as-foreign-nationals-go-missing-101638581400071.html
04-12-2021||India||PM Modi in Dehradun today, to lay foundation of Delhi-Dehradun Economic Corridor||Prime Minister Narendra Modi will visit Dehradun, Uttarakhand on Saturday, where he is scheduled to inaugurate and lay the foundation stone of multiple projects including the ambitious Delhi-Dehradun Economic Corridor worth around ₹18,000 crore.According to the statement by the Prime Minister's Office (PMO), the Delhi-Dehradun Economic Corridor (from Eastern Peripheral Expressway Junction to Dehradun) will be built at a cost of around ₹8,300 crore.Apart from this, he will also lay the foundation stone of 10 development projects and inaugurate seven others. Most of these projects are focused on improving the road infrastructure of Dehradun, making travel safer to the city, situated at the foothills of the Himalayas.What is the Delhi-Dehradun Economic Corridor project?After completion, the Delhi-Dehradun Corridor will reduce the travel time from the national capital to the city of Uttarkhand to 2.5 hours. Currently, by road, it takes about six hours to reach there from Delhi.It will have seven major interchanges for connectivity to Haridwar, Muzaffarnagar, Shamli, Yamunanagar, Baghpat, Meerut and Baraut.The corridor will also have Asia's largest wildlife elevated corridor (12 km) for unrestricted wildlife movement. Also, the 340-metre long tunnel near Dat Kaali temple, Dehradun will help reduce the impact on wildlife, the government has stated.The Delhi-Dehradun Economic Corridor will have arrangements for rainwater harvesting at intervals of 500 meters and over 400 water recharge points.The corridor is expected to boost the overall economy of the region. In the statement, the government said that this project will provide seamless connectivity and reduce logistics costs.The construction of the Delhi-Dehradun corridor is also expected to give impetus to the development of tourism, especially in Haridwar, a popular pilgrimage site.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/pm-modi-in-dehradun-today-to-lay-foundation-of-delhi-dehradun-economic-corridor-101638579999800.html
04-12-2021||India||Cyclone Jawad: Odisha, north Andhra Pradesh districts to receive heavy rainfall||Cyclone Jawad is likely to reach off north Andhra Pradesh and Odisha coasts by Saturday morning after the deep depression intensified into a cyclonic storm on Friday noon. The Indian Meteorological Department has predicted rainfall to pick up the intensity on December 4 as Cyclone Jawad moves along the coast to make landfall the next day near Odisha’s Puri. After a pre-cyclone watch was issued on December 1, the Met department issued alerts related to heavy rain and high wind speed for Andhra Pradesh, Odisha and Gangetic Plains of West Bengal and some northeastern states.Odisha and Andhra Pradesh are expected to witness the maximum impact of Cyclone Jawad as the squally wind that started along and off north Andhra Pradesh and Odisha coasts on the intervening night of December 3-4 is likely to reach up to 7–80 kmph gusting to 90 kmph by Saturday evening.On Saturday, heavy to very heavy rainfall at a few places and isolated extremely heavy rainfall is likely over north coastal Andhra Pradesh. IMD has issued a red alert for Visakhapatnam, Srikakulam and Vizianagaram in view of heavy rainfall along with high wind speed.A few places over coastal Odisha is expected to receive heavy to very heavy rainfall while isolated places in the region are expected to receive extremely heavy rainfall. Isolated places over West Bengal are also likely to receive heavy to heavy rainfall as Cyclone Jawad changes the route to move north-northeastward.‘Evacuate, follow protocols’: Union secretary to states ahead of cyclone JawadThe Met department has predicted heavy to very heavy rainfall at a few places with isolated extremely heavy falls (more than 20 cm) over Odisha's Gajapati, Ganjam, Jagatsinghpur districts on Saturday. Heavy to very heavy rainfall is expected over Koraput, Rayagada, Kandhamal, Nayagarh, Khordha, Cuttack, and Kendrapara.Fishermen have been advised not to venture into the west-central and northwest Bay of Bengal and along and off north Andhra Pradesh, Odisha and West Bengal coasts through December 5.Major damage to thatched houses and breaking of tree branches and uprooting of trees are expected as the cyclone reaches near the coast. Power and communication lines can also witness minor disruption. Intense rainfall could cause localised flooding of roads, inundation and water logging in low lying areas. Disruption of traffic in major cities is also possible due to waterlogging.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/cyclone-jawad-odisha-north-andhra-pradesh-districts-to-receive-heavy-rainfall-101638576979700.html
04-12-2021||India||'Doubtful': Karnataka to probe how SA national with Omicron got negative result in 3 days||The Karnataka government has ordered a probe into the test report of the 66-year-old South African national who was one of the first Omicron cases in India. All his primary and secondary contacts have tested negative, but questions arise as to how he could fly out of the country while the genome sequencing result of his sample was awaited. Within a week after testing positive, the South African man flew to Dubai showing a negative RT-PCR report, which he got at a private Covid testing centre.The person reached Bengaluru on November 20 and left on November 27. He tested positive on his arrival and a government doctor visited him at the hotel where he was lodged. Since he had no symptoms, he was advised to self-isolate. His samples were again taken for genome sequencing since he came from an 'at-risk' country. A day later, on November 23, he got tested at a private facility where his report came negative.Chief Minister Basavaraj Bommai said the Bruhat Bengaluru Mahanagara Palike Commissioner has been directed to file a case at the city's High Ground Police Station in this regard. . "Two reports- one positive and one negative- is doubtful. So the lab must be investigated. So we have asked the police commissioner to investigate immediately in coordination with the health department," the chief minister said.Going by the negative results of the primary and the secondary contacts of the South African national, Karnataka health minister Dr K Sudhakar earlier said his certificate may be true. "The 66-year-old, who has left for South Africa, via Dubai, had presented a negative certificate for the virus, from a private lab. His primary and secondary contacts were found negative. So it means to say that his certificate may be true," he said, as quoted by ANI.The decision of investigation comes as around 57 international passengers who arrived from African countries between November 12 and 22 are believed to be missing after their arrival at the Bengaluru airport. The officials realised they were incommunicado when they tried contacting them to send samples for genomic sequencing to ascertain if they had the Omicron variant.Revenue minister R Ashok said, "They will be tracked and tested. The authorities have been given directions in this regard."(With agency inputs)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/karnataka-to-probe-how-sa-national-with-omicron-got-negative-result-in-3-days-101638575726625.html
04-12-2021||India||Pollution body widens closure order: All schools in NCR shut||After the Delhi government closed all schools in the city due to high pollution levels, the Commission for Air Quality Management (CAQM) expanded the closure order to the entire national capital region (NCR) from Friday -- a move that some experts said will hit learning outcomes while not preventing the air crisis that young people face.The Supreme Court, during a hearing related to air quality measures in the Capital, on Friday lamented that it was sought to be portrayed as a “villain” for trying to get schools shut although it did not pass any such order.A bench, headed by Chief Justice of India NV Ramana, clarified that it did not give any direction to the effect, nor did it suggest that the Delhi government must shut schools; all it did on Thursday was to ask the Delhi government for reasons behind reopening them even as pollution levels were high.“We don’t know whether its intentional or not [but] some sections of media try to project as if we are villains, and we want closure of schools. You (Delhi government) had said we were closing schools and introducing work from home. Then you yourself opened the schools. So, we asked for reasons,” the bench, which included justices Dhananjaya Y Chandrachud and Surya Kant, told senior advocate Abhishek Manu Singhvi, who appeared for the Delhi government.On Thursday, the top court pulled up the Delhi government for reopening schools on November 29, asking if it was prudent to expose young children to bad air and toxic smog while adults were still working from home.“Children have to go to schools at 6-7 in the morning in this bad weather...You have implemented work for home for the employees. So, parents work from home and children have to go to schools. What’s this?” it asked.Singhvi replied at the time that the city government could reconsider its decision if the court wanted this, prompting the CJI to retort: “Don’t use our shoulders to fire shots. You are the government. You do your work.”Hours later, the Delhi government announced closure of schools until further orders. By a late-night order on Thursday, the Commission for Air Quality Management (CAQM) in the NCR and Adjoining Areas directed for closure of all schools and colleges in the NCR, except for the purpose of conducting examinations and laboratory practical.On Friday, the bench regretted the way a section of the media reported the proceedings from a day ago about the discussion on closure of schools in the national capital, and sought to clarify that the court only enquired about the latest position since the Delhi government’s last affidavit said all schools were shut.“Some section started projecting after yesterday’s hearing as if we are not concerned about welfare and education of children. Freedom of press is there...we cannot take it away. They can twist, write anything. You are a political party. You can have a press conference and say something, we cannot,” it further told Singhvi.Singhvi agreed with the bench, complaining that reports reflecting Thursday’s proceedings in a tenor of administrative combat or as if the court wanted to take over the administration.“Where did we say that we are interested in taking over administration? The fact of the matter is that neither the court said anything like that nor did we suggest anything like that,” retorted the bench.Solicitor general Tushar Mehta, appearing for the Union government, supported Singhvi in his submissions, adding the court had not issued any mandate to the Delhi government on closure of schools.Delhi has been in the grip of hazardous pollution since November, a bad air spike that was first fuelled largely by smoke from stubble fires in Haryana and Punjab. However, while they ebbed out towards the end of November, pollution levels have remained either in the upper reaches of the ‘very poor’ zone or in the ‘severe’ level.The air quality index (AQI) on Friday improved to 349 (very poor) after light rain and stronger winds throughout the previous day, when the AQI was 429 (severe).Schools in Delhi have been shut four separate times since March last year – twice owing to concerns over Covid-19, and twice in less than three weeks because of the pollution. Experts have, however, repeatedly pointed that the pollution levels are as bad indoors as they are outside, if not worse. Further, they have also flagged concerns over the mental health impact and learning gaps that the repeated interruptions have caused.On Friday, the bench allowed the Delhi government’s application to let it go ahead with construction work related to hospitals in the city. The application sought permission for construction activities for seven new Covid hospitals at Shalimar Bagh, Kirari, Sultanpuri, Raghubir Nagar, Sarita Vihar, GTB Hospital and Chacha Nehru Hospital.The plea stated that the work for these Covid hospitals had begun in October but had to be stopped due to a ban on construction activities. It added that six months will be required to complete the work.The city government also submitted a list of another 19 hospitals where some additional and remodelling work had to be carried out. Mehta supported the Delhi government’s application.The top court allowed the plea subject to city government’s compliance with the guidelines laid down by CAQM.On Thursday, the court criticised the Delhi government for reopening schools in the city despite air quality remaining in “hazardous” category.“One thing you told us was that schools are closed. But schools are not closed. Small children have to go in morning in fog. Children have to go to schools at 6-7 in the morning in this bad weather,” the bench told Singhvi.Singhvi, however, maintained that the Delhi government has taken strongest possible measures to control pollution and that there is no dilution of the court order. He admitted that schools in the city have reopened from November 29, adding that children have also been given the option of online studies instead of physical classes.“There are various reports on learning loss due to school closure during the pandemic and therefore, it was decided to reopen the schools with the option of online teaching,” Singhvi argued.
04-12-2021||India||Don’t implement entry, exit regulations for outsiders, HC directs Meghalaya govt||SHILLONG: The Meghalaya high court on Friday blocked the implementation of entry and exit rules to the state under the Meghalaya Residents Safety and Security Act 2016 that required non-residents to register at check-posts.A two-judge bench of the high court comprising chief justice Sanjib Banerjee and justice T Diengdoh told the government to “let the matter stand over for some time” after the government’s law officer sought time to seek information from the government to respond to the bench’s many questions.The bench noted that though the state government referred to Article 19(5) of the Constitution while drawing up the Act, the grounds on which entry to or movement within the state may be regulated have not been spelt out in the impugned statute or any rules framed thereunder.Article 19(5) grants the government the power to impose reasonable restrictions upon the freedom to move freely throughout India and the freedom to reside or settle in any part of the territory of the country in the interest of the general public or the protection of the interests of any Scheduled Tribe. “The challenge here is to the validity of the Meghalaya Residents Safety and Security Act, 2016 and the possible draconian manner in which it may be implemented as appropriately apprehended by the petitioners,” the bench said.“It is made clear that the apparent omnibus charter conferred by the impugned statute without indicating any parameters for restricting or regulating the entry or movement of Indian citizens into and within the state may be not exercised,” the judges added.The case has been listed for hearing on February 2 next year.Petitioner Ibanhunlang Nongkynrih submitted that gates have been set up at several points for checks to be conducted on persons seeking to enter the state without any objective parameters being set down for denying entry or regulating the movement of any citizen of the country in the state. The petitioner had also said that such check-posts may be “impermissible” and the exercise of may be “wholly arbitrary”.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/dont-implement-entry-exit-regulations-for-outsiders-hc-directs-meghalaya-govt-101638562494412.html
04-12-2021||India||Want to see progress on Taliban’s commitments on counterterror: EU special envoy Tomas Niklasson||The European Union (EU) wants to see movement on commitments made by the Taliban set up in Kabul, including on humanitarian access, counterterrorism and the formation of an inclusive government, EU special envoy for Afghanistan Tomas Niklasson said on Friday. The EU and India are close on most issues related to Afghanistan, including the need not to isolate the Afghan people even as there is no recognition of the interim government formed by the Taliban, Niklasson said in an interview. The two sides are also on the same page regarding the urgent need to provide humanitarian aid to the Afghan people, he said. Though the Taliban setup has revoked Afghanistan’s constitution, broken promises it made while negotiating an agreement with the US and is unclear about its international obligations, the EU believes the interim government is a “reality for now” and it is better to have a dialogue with the Taliban than to close all doors, he said. “Afghanistan cannot [and] must not be allowed to become a threat to its neighbours or other countries. And this is not something we are waiting to see happen. It takes decisions, it takes action from the de facto authorities,” Niklasson said. Referring to his talks in Doha with a Taliban delegation led by acting foreign minister Amir Khan Muttaqi over the weekend, Niklasson said he had talked about humanitarian access, the importance of having women aid workers, safe passage for Afghans who feel threatened and want to leave the country, and human rights, where “a lot needs to be done”. “We talked about girls’ education, where there’s a strong commitment now at least on paper...This needs to be translated, it needs to happen,” he said. “Where I see less movement is on inclusivity, of having a government representing minorities or ethnic communities, having women in the government or a government representing different political affiliations,” he added. Though India and the EU are far away geographically and very different entities, there has been “strong convergence or even an overlap” in the position of both sides on Afghanistan, especially on human rights and the call for the Afghan people to shape their future, Niklasson said. “I thought perhaps before my visit that India would be even more focused on the security aspects and that would be very understandable...but I also find that there is quite a lot of similarity...None of us wants to isolate the Afghan people, [and] none of us is ready to recognise the interim government,” he said. “But we both, in different ways, try to see that dialogue in some form is still needed. We both focus on humanitarian assistance as a first and immediate priority,” he said, adding that the EU had increased its humanitarian aid fivefold, from 60 million euros to 300 million euros while member states have pledged an additional 400 million euros. “Afghanistan is in a rough winter because winter is already here... But the needs are enormous, and the projections for next year are even bigger,” he said. Niklasson acknowledged there are numerous problems associated with the unfreezing of Afghan assets in countries such as the US, the UK, Germany and Switzerland, but said discussions are ongoing to find a solution that benefits the Afghan people. Niklasson also noted the threat posed by Islamic State-Khorasan, which has been blamed for a series of high-profile terror attacks across Afghanistan, many of them targeting the Shia minority. He said it was unclear if the IS affiliate was a single movement or a set of movements. “First of all, (there is) the risk (or) the potential breeding ground, if you like. The market for recruiting fighters will be there. We have disgruntled or disappointed Taliban, who have known for months or years, or sometimes longer, how to use a gun. And suddenly they’re more or less out of a job,” he said. “I don’t want to exaggerate it, but we have members of the former Afghan national security forces who certainly know how to use a gun, or some of them would certainly hold a grudge against the Taliban. And some of them would certainly be looking for an income,” he added. 
04-12-2021||India||‘Evacuate, follow protocols’: Union secretary to states ahead of cyclone Jawad||Union cabinet secretary Rajiv Gauba on Friday chaired the second meeting of the National Crisis Management Committee (NCMC) to review the preparedness of the states and central ministries or agencies ahead of cyclone Jawad's landfall. This comes after his meeting on Wednesday wherein Gauba emphasised on fishermen and vessels at sea to immediately return to the coast and evacuation of people from vulnerable areas at the earliest.During the meeting, chief secretaries of Andhra Pradesh, Odisha, West Bengal, and Andaman and Nicobar Islands informed the NCMC that all efforts are currently underway to make sure fishermen at sea safely return before the landfall of cyclone Jawad. They said that cyclone shelters have been readied and evacuation process of people living in low-lying regions are also ongoing.Meanwhile, arrangements to “stock food grains, drinking water and other essential supplies” have also been made. “Team for maintenance and restoration of power, roads and water supply, and other essential services have also been positioned,” an official release stated, adding that harvesting of standing crops is also underway to curtail damages of the cyclone.The National Disaster Response Force (NDRF) has also deployed teams across the three states, of which, some have been kept on standby as well. Apart from them, rescue and relief teams of the Indian Army and Navy along with aircrafts and ships have also been readied for relief operations.Also Read | Cyclone Jawad landfall: Trains cancelled and schools shut in Andhra, 46 NDRF teams deployed in 3 statesGauba emphasised on obeying of all protocols to ensure there is no scope for loss of lives and damage to property is minimised. He added that fishermen and vessels that are out at the sea currently “must be accounted for by the concerned states” for which Coast Guard and other central agencies would assist them, according to the official release.The Union cabinet secretary asked authorities to carry out public messaging in order to make sure that people living in the path of cyclone Jawad are given suitable instructions and guidance during the period of the storm. Furthermore, the states were directed to ensure all of their Covid-19 hospitals function without interruption during the landfall process and aftermath of cyclone Jawad.Senior officers and secretaries from ministries or department of home affairs, civil aviation, ports, railways, NDRF, and India Meteorological Department (IMD), among others, also attended the meeting.A deep depression over Bay of Bengal turned into cyclone Jawad at 11.30am on Friday. According to the IMD, the cyclone will pass the coasts of north Andhra Pradesh and south Odisha on Saturday before changing its course and making a landfall near Odisha's Puri on Sunday noon.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/evacuate-follow-protocols-union-secretary-to-states-ahead-of-cyclone-jawad-101638558074050.html
04-12-2021||India||BJP inducts Goa Forward Party’s ex-MLA Jayesh Salgaonkar, says more are coming||PANAJI: Goa Forward legislator Jayesh Salgaonkar was formally inducted into the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) on Friday by Goa Chief Minister Pramod Sawant, State BJP president Sadanand Shet Tanavade and other leaders. His entry into the BJP will be the first of many in the runup to the Goa elections early next year, Sawant has claimed. “There are still many who are scheduled to join us. They are asking us, when should we join? We have asked them to wait for some time, as we are inducting people one by one,” Sawant said addressing the group of Jayesh’ supporters who gathered outside the Goa BJP headquarters where the formal induction took place. “Over the next two, two-and-a-half months there will be many who will join the BJP. BJP doors are open for all workers and leaders,” Sawant added. His comments come amid reports that Congress MLA Ravi Naik, whose sons Ritesh and Roy joined the BJP last year, is looking to switch sides to the BJP. Salgaonkar was inducted as a minister in the state cabinet after the Vijai Sardesai-led Goa Forward Party (GFP) extended support to the BJP to enable it to form the government back in 2017. He was dropped from Pramod Sawant’s council of ministers after 10 Congress lawmakers joined the BJP in 2019 and the BJP didn’t need Sardesai’s party. Before he resigned, Salgaonkar represented the Saligao constituency in north Goa which he wrested from the BJP in 2017 defeating then sitting minister Dilip Parulekar on a GFP ticket.But his entry into the BJP is expected to lead to some complications on the Saligao seat where local party leaders expect his induction to make it impossible for any of the local party leaders to qualify for a party ticket.The opposition to Salgaonkar’s entry forced state BJP chief Sadanand Shet Tanavade to dissolve a local block unit as its members gathered at the party headquarters and raised slogans against the leadership. The members accused the leadership of “using and throwing” the hardworking functionaries and betraying the party principles.Salgaonkar, however, said he was eager to work with the existing block members and would reach out to them to resolve differences if any. On Thursday, GFP issued a notice to Salgaonkar asking him to respond to his “constant anti-party activities.” It cited his “behaviour and conduct” and said it clearly indicates his intent is to work with the BJP “for personal gains thereby compromising the values and policies of the party”. He was given 24 hours to respond.Salgaonkar is the second lawmaker to resign from the assembly since Congress’s Luizinho Faleiro quit to defect to the Trinamool Congress in September.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/bjp-inducts-goa-forward-party-s-ex-mla-jayesh-salgaonkar-says-more-are-coming-101638560094064.html
04-12-2021||India||Kerala to pull up 5,000 unvaccinated teachers||The Kerala government on Monday decided to go after 5000-odd teachers and school staff who refused to take Covid-19 vaccine citing flimsy reasons including their belief. The education ministry has issued a circular asking them to appear before a medical board and furnish exact details for not taking vaccine. Most of them have cited health reasons to bypass the jab and some of them openly said it was against their belief. The ministry has warned strict action against them if the reason given is invalid or flimsy. The HT had carried a detailed report on this on Sunday. “We will constitute medical team and they will have to appear before them. We will take action against those who take flimsy reasons like belief. For the government safety of children is utmost,” a senior official of the health ministry said. Education Minister V Sivankutty on Sunday warned strict action against them. Many health activists and teacher’ organisations have asked the government to create proper awareness among the reluctant and force them to take vaccine in the larger interest of the state and safety of children. In some Muslim-dominated areas in north Kerala there is opposition to vaccine from orthodox sections.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/kerala-to-pull-up-5-000-unvaccinated-teachers-101638560034107.html
04-12-2021||India||Landslide-hit Tirumala road may take up to a month to repair||The landslides triggered by heavy rains on the hills of Tirumala, a major pilgrim centre in Andhra Pradesh’s Chittoor district, in the early hours of Wednesday caused extensive damage to the ghat road so much so that it would take at least three to four weeks to bring it back to normalcy, officials said.The Tirumala Tirupati Devasthanams (TTD), which manages the temple of Lord Venkateshwara on Tirumala, has roped in a team of engineering experts from Indian Institute of Technology, Delhi and Chennai, to find a permanent solution to prevent landslides in future, as thousands of pilgrims travel on the ghat road every day.TTD trust board chairman Y V Subba Reddy, who held a meeting with the experts from the IITs and engineering officials on Friday, said the second ghat road (used for upward journey of pilgrims from Tirupati to the hill shrine of Tirumala), and its retaining walls, which suffered huge damages due to the Wednesday’s landslides, would be restored at least by December end.Reddy asked the experts and engineers to suggest measures to ensure that the remaining part of the hill which caved in resulting in massive boulders falling on the ghat road, should not witness further landslides.This is the second time in less than two weeks that the ghat road was closed for traffic due to landslides caused by heavy rains. “The parts of the hill, identified as potential threat to the pilgrims travelling on the ghat road be sealed using chemical technology or removed carefully. The safety of the pilgrims is paramount and we are prepared to spend any amount of money to prevent further landslides,” the TTD chairman said.He asked the experts – K S Rao from IIT, Delhi and S Sripad from IIT Madras, along with retired chief engineer of TTD Ramachandra Reddy – to come up with a report on how to avert further landslides in future.A senior official of the TTD said the team of experts, who went round the areas where landslides occurred to study the nature of rocks and the causes for the landslides, is expected to submit the report to the TTD by Tuesday.“According to preliminary assessment, it would take at least three months to come up with a lasting solution for the landslides on Tirumala,” the official said.Expert from Delhi IIT K S Rao told reporters that unprecedented rains on the Tirumala hills for over a week, resulted in the landslides. “The rocks that rolled down the hills were of the weight of 30-40 tons each and hence caused extensive damage to the ghat road and the retainer walls at four to five places. There is a likelihood of rock falls in five to six other spots in future,” he said.Rao said there were rain-triggered landslides on the Tirumala ghat road in 2017, too, but this time, the magnitude was high. “During 2017, critical spots were cushioned with mesh fencing, rock belting and other such means of technology,” he said.The experts call for creation of a proper drainage system along the ghat roads and the Seshachalam forest and hill ranges. Meanwhile, the TTD chairman directed that the authorities take steps for allowing traffic through a link road that connects the second ghat road.
04-12-2021||India||Bengaluru civic body expands contact tracing to locate Omicron variant source||Bruhat Bengaluru Mahanagara Palike (BBMP) officials on Friday said the civic agency will expand contact tracing of patient number two to identify the source of Omicron variant in him. A day after the new Covid-19 variant was identified in two patients, officials of the health department and BBMP remain clueless about how a person got infected with the Omicron variant of the coronavirus any history of international travel. Talking to HT, KV Trilok Chandra, special commissioner (health), said since the officials have not been able to identify the source of the infection, the civic agency will increase the contact tracing of the patient. “The contacts traced so far are for a few days before his infection. We will now expand to a few more weeks and if need be, we will track his contacts for the last month. We will have to trace to contacts of his contacts as well. We will be doing this in the coming days,” said the official. The second case of Omicron reported in Karnataka was that of a 46-year-old resident of Bengaluru and was working as a health care worker. BBMP commissioner Gaurav Gupta told HT that patient number two didn’t have any contact with the South African national, who was patient number one. Health minister Dr K Sudhakar further confirmed that he was a doctor working with a private hospital in the city. He developed fever and body ache on November 21 and tested positive the next day. Since he had a low CT value (which indicates a high viral load), his sample was sent for genomic sequencing. This patient had 13 primary contacts and 205 secondary contacts. Out of which, three primary contacts and two secondary contacts have tested positive for Covid. They are currently at a government hospital, and they are not showing any severe symptoms. The five contacts of patient number two have no travel history didn’t have any travel history either. A health care expert, who is aware of the developments, said the patient is a doctor with a renowned hospital in the city. While he confirmed that he hadn’t travelled abroad, he had participated in an international conference at a five-star hotel on November 20, however, there were no overseas delegates.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/bengaluru-civic-body-expands-contact-tracing-to-locate-omicron-variant-source-101638559797672.html
04-12-2021||India||After 2 Omicron cases, Karnataka government says 57 African passengers missing||A day after two cases of the Omicron variant of the coronavirus was detected in Karnataka, the government said that 57 international passengers, who arrived from African countries, remained untraceable after arrival at Bengaluru airport.Officials said efforts were on to trace them, and that expressed confidence that they would be tracked down soon.“Priority has been given to trace those 57 passengers from Africa. In the past, our police department has done a good job of tracking down those who have escaped. And our police demonstrate their efficiency and will track them all. But I urge the passengers to act responsibly and with social concern,” health minister Dr K Sudhakar said.These African nationals arrived in Bengaluru between November 12 and 22, according to officials from BBMP (the Bengaluru municipal corporation), who said that several of them switched off their phones or provided false addresses.The officials realised they were incommunicado when they tried contacting them to send samples for genomic sequencing to ascertain if they had the Omicron variant.Talking to reporters after the high-level meeting chaired by chief minister Basavaraj Bommai, revenue minister R Ashok said the missing international passengers will be tracked down Friday midnight. “They will be tracked and tested. The authorities have been given directions in this regard,” he said. Even in the case of patient number one, the authorities had failed to track him. While talking to the media on Friday, health minister Sudhakar had said that the government was aware of patient number one leaving the country. However, a statement from police officers tasked with tracking him said that he left the country without informing authorities. India’s Omicron patient number one is a South African who landed in Bengaluru on November 20. The p 66-year-old patient had his samples were collected on November 20 at the Kempegowda international airport on the day of his arrival from South Africa via Dubai. A report from BBMP said that after the Covid test, he checked into a hotel in the city. After he tested positive, a doctor from the Urban Primary Health Care Centre visited him for a physical triage and found him to be asymptomatic. He was asked to isolate himself at the hotel. “On November 22, his test samples were collected and sent for genomic sequencing via BBMP,” said the report. It further added that the patient took a self-examination on November 23 and was tested negative. On getting this negative report at 12.34 am on November 28, he left for Dubai from where he had come to the country. A senior Bengaluru police officer said that on November 27, health department officials had asked police to track this South African national, since his genome sequencing report was still awaited, and he was incommunicado. “That night we tracked him and by the time we got his location he was already on the flight to Dubai,” said the senior officer who requested anonymity. The revenue minister claimed they were aware of his departure, however, on Friday afternoon summoned the Bengaluru police commissioner to Chief Minister’s residence. Hours later Ashok told reporters that a case will be filed with the High Court police station in Bengaluru to investigate which lab issued the negative certificate to patient number one and if the hotel authorities violated any norms. “We’ve lodged a complaint with the police, and they will see what went wrong at the Shangri-La hotel, from where the person escaped,” said Ashok. A senior BBMP official admitted that there have been “slip-ups from authorities”. “We still don’t know from where patient number one got the variant. The lack of answers could only mean that the variant is already present in the city. It is possible that before the variant was first detected in South Africa, it arrived in Bengaluru. There is nothing much we can do in such a situation because we didn’t know about this variant,” said the official who didn’t want to be named.“But officials who were responsible for tracking international passengers have failed because a patient left the country without permission and now international passengers are missing. We can’t point fingers at anyone, it is a collective failure,” the officer added. Ashok told media on Friday that the BBMP or any other agencies have not been able to identify how the 44-year-old man without travel history got the new variant.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/after-2-omicron-cases-karnataka-government-says-57-african-passengers-missing-101638559677586.html
04-12-2021||India||Onus of withdrawing cases on farmers lies with Centre, says Samyukt Kisan Morcha||The onus of withdrawing cases registered against farmers during the course of their year-long agitation since last year lies with the Union government, even though the cultivators have been booked by state governments, the Samyukt Kisan Morcha (SKM) said on Friday.The SKM, which is a platform of over 40 farm unions, claimed that states such as Haryana, which is governed by the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP), were waiting for a signal from the Centre to decide on the criminal cases against the cultivators.“(The) SKM notes that Haryana government’s representatives are repeatedly saying that they will act on the Centre’s instructions, when it comes to withdrawing hundreds of cases filed against tens of thousands of farmers,” a statement released by the platform said.The SKM asks the “government of India to move forward formally in this matter”, it added.Haryana alone has slapped over 300 cases on farmers on various charges, a prominent leader of movement, Gurnam Singh Chaduni said.The SKM’s remarks came a day ahead of a crucial meeting on their future course of action, after the Centre repealed the three contentious agricultural laws on November 29. There is an expectation in some quarters that the farmers could call off their protest and engage with the government on the issue of codifying minimum support prices, another of their demands.A day after the farm laws were repealed, Chaduni said farm unions may decide to participate in a committee proposed by Prime Minister Narendra Modi to look into issues related to cultivation and minimum support prices (MSPs) if it is a “concrete” step towards guaranteeing prices of agricultural produce. If this happens, it could be a much-needed breakthrough in the deadlock between tens of thousands of protesting farmers and the Modi government.Farm unions termed the repeal as their “first major victory” but wrote to Prime Minister Narendra Modi on November 22, listing their remaining demands which include bringing a law to ensure minimum support prices for farm produce, revocation of a proposed electricity bill, which farmers said would make power costlier, and compensation for all farmers who died during protests.In the statement on Friday, the farm unions reiterated their demand for compensation even as the Union government, on Wednesday, told Parliament that it has no data on farmers who died during the year-long protests, and hence, the question of compensation did not arise.“Over 700 farmers have died during the protests, whose families must be compensated because they have lost an earning member of their families,” Chaduni said.The SKM said farmers would continue to prevent BJP leaders from visiting their villages if their demands were not met. On Wednesday, several farmers gathered in Dhrauli Khera village of Uchana in Jind (Haryana) to ensure that Haryana deputy chief Dushyant Chautala did not enter the area, it added.Farm leaders said they were waiting for the Centre’s response on their demands as the repeal of what they called “black laws” were not sufficient to assuage the peasants.“We haven’t received any information or signal from the government on what it is doing to meet our pending demands. In tomorrow’s meeting, all these matters will be discussed,” Charuni said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/onus-of-withdrawing-cases-on-farmers-lies-with-centre-says-samyukt-kisan-morcha-101638559617614.html
04-12-2021||India||Madras high court refuses to pass order on AIADMK internal elections||The Madras high court on Wednesday refused to pass any interim order in connection with the AIADMK’s internal organisational elections to be held on December 7 which was challenged by an expelled member K C Palanisamy. Justice Abdul Quddhose said that the court cannot interfere at this stage and adjourned the case to January 7 for AIADMK’s coordinator, O Panneerselvam and joint coordinator Edappadi Palaniswami to file counter affidavits. K C Palanisamy is a former MP who was removed from the party in March 2018. In his petition, Palanisamy claimed that declaring elections for the posts of coordinator and joint coordinator is against the bylaws of the party and illegal, unenforceable in the eyes of the law. “Notably, the defendants have flouted the mandatory requirement of 21 days notice prior to the announcement of elections,” the petition read. “The said illegal actions of the Defendants clearly evince the malafide intention to pull wool over the eyes of the the primary members including the Plaintiff by conducting election albeit in an illegal, unfair and undemocratic manner.” He further charged that O Panneerselvam and Edappadi K Palaniswamy are trying to usurp the power of the General Secretary without following the electoral process which is against the Societies Registration Act, 1860.On December 1, during its executive committee meeting, the AIADMK formalised its dual leadership by making a vital change to the bylaws in the party constitution. Now, the coordinator Panneerselvam and joint coordinator Palaniswami will be internally elected by a ‘single voting system’ directly by the primary members, who have been associated with the party for five continuous years. This change has now solidified AIADMK’s dual leadership arrangement which has been in place since J Jayalalithaa’s death in December 2016 and to keep expelled leader V K Sasikala and her supporters out. And on the following day, the AIADMK announced the elections to these top posts-coordinator and joint coordinator -- to be held on December 7. Except for Panneerselvam and Palaniswami, no other pair is expected to contest for these posts. Both Sasikala and K C Palanisamy have cases pending in court regarding previous changes made by Panneerselvam and Palaniswami. Sasikala had moved a city court against a 2017 general council meeting in which she was removed as interim general secretary and from the party while she was in prison. K C Palanisamy had challenged the appointment of Sasikala as interim general secretary and as well as the same 2017 meeting where Jayalalithaa was made AIADMK’s eternal general secretary and the power of the post was transferred to newly created posts coordinator and joint coordinator occupied by Panneerselvam and Palaniswami.
04-12-2021||India||Karnataka to allow only fully vaccinated people in public spaces amid Omicron scare||The Karnataka government on Friday announced that only fully vaccinated people will be allowed in public spaces like theatres and cinema halls, as fresh restrictions were announced to contain the growing threat of the new variant of novel coronavirus, Omicron. “The entry to malls, cinema halls/theatres shall be allowed only to the persons who are vaccinated with two dates of Covid-19 vaccine,” R Ashok, Karnataka’s minister for revenue said on Friday in Bengaluru. The minister added that parents of children below 18 years will have to “mandatorily be vaccinated” in order for their wards to attend physical classes. “It is reiterated that there shall be strict implementation of a five-fold strategy of test-track-treat-vaccination and enforcing adherence to COVID-appropriate behaviour,” according to the state’s new guidelines, which came into effect from Friday evening. The statements come a day after the Union government confirmed the first two known cases of the Omicron variant of SARS-CoV-2 in Karnataka. Two cases of Omicron have been found positive in a 66-year-old man and a 46-year-old man. The fresh restrictions have raised apprehensions in the southern state where unverified WhatsApp forwards of a possible lockdown have been doing the rounds. Cabinet ministers have taken turns to give their views on the lockdown and its possible implementation in front of media cameras, adding to the confusion and apprehension of the population. The state government, meanwhile, reiterated that all events in schools and other public places have to be put off at least until January 15, 2022. However, the government said the winter session of the state legislature in Belagavi, about 500 km from Bengaluru, will start as per the schedule on December 13. “The cultural activities/fests and functions in all educational institutions should be postponed till 15th January 2022. Compulsory testing of health workers, old persons above 65 years and persons with comorbidities will be undertaken by the government,” according to the guidelines issued by the state government. The new guidelines also said that gatherings in marriages will be limited to below 500. All government officials have been asked to get fully vaccinated. “There shall be intensive containment (micro containment measures) and active surveillance in clusters/area reporting higher cases to contain the spread locally,” according to the government. According to health officials, the state government has been trying to increase its Covid-19 vaccination coverage to help reduce the impact of a possible third wave in the state. According to government data, coverage for the second dose in the state has increased to 62% while 92% eligible population has received at least one dose of Covid-19 vaccine. A total of 75 million doses of vaccine have been administered till date, data said. On Friday, Karnataka and Bengaluru reported 413 and 212 new cases, taking the active caseload to 6,896 and 5,049 in the state and city, respectively, according to the government bulletin.Four more people died in a 24 hour period due to Covid- 19 which takes the toll to 38,220 so far. The state has already put in place strict guidelines, including mandatory negative RT-PCR test not more than 48 hours, for people coming in from Kerala and Maharashtra. The government also made testing mandatory for all international passengers at Bengaluru and other airports in the state. Dr CN Ashwath Narayan, Karnataka’s minister for higher education and information technology, on Friday said several countries have implemented such restrictions. “Many countries have put some restrictions for unvaccinated people in public spaces like malls, cinema halls, schools, colleges and offices,” Narayana said. Meanwhile, health experts sounded caution over gatherings at election campaigning ahead of the polls for the state legislative council on December 10.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/karnataka-to-allow-only-fully-vaccinated-people-in-public-spaces-amid-omicron-scare-101638559493921.html
04-12-2021||India||Bills to extend tenures of CBI, ED directors introduced in Lok Sabha||The Union government on Friday introduced two bills in the Lok Sabha to extend the terms of directors of the Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI) and Enforcement Directorate (ED) up to five years, from the current two years, even as the Opposition alleged that the amendments were done with “mala fide” intentions. Union minister of state for personnel Jitendra Singh introduced The Central Vigilance Commission (Amendment) Bill 2021 and the Delhi Special Police Establishment (Amendment) Bill 2021, and defended the amendments by saying that the “upper limit” in the tenures of the two services will not only maintain independence but also provide “continuum” in sensitive cases and legal processes like extradition of fugitives. A statement of object and reasons for the two bills said that money-laundering and corruption activities are often interlinked and unravelling the nexus through ED and CBI has not only become complex, but also has international ramifications. “Thus, investigation of such crimes requires the two investigating agencies to have robust processes and senior personnel in position for sufficiently long tenures. As such, enhancing capacity and resources for continuing oversight by the senior officers, especially the heads of the two agencies, is fundamental to the proposed re-strengthening,” it said. The bills also said that the heads of the two central agencies are an integral part of the concerted global actions against corruption and money-laundering and any legal provision or service rule restricting their tenure may prove to be “counterproductive”.The government also cited the conditions of United Nation Convention Against Corruption (UNCAC) and the Financial Action Task Force (FATF) to prevent corruption, combat money laundering and terror financing, which demands India to significantly enhance its capacity and resources in the agencies.“The positive outcome in India’s mutual evaluation (at FATF) is critical for the financial future of the country,” the bills said, pointing that major countries already had an established practice of longer tenures.The government further justified its move of bringing in two ordinances, last month, to empower itself to post the chiefs of the two premier investigating agencies for up to five years, saying “Parliament was not in session and there was an immediate need of legislation”.Singh said the ordinances were necessitated as Parliament remained disrupted. “Should the government stop working if the House doesn’t work,” he asked.Opposing the bills, Congress leader Shashi Tharoor said the extensions were flagrant disregard of the Supreme Court observations. The Thiruvananthapuram MP said the apex court had made it clear that the extension of tenure granted to officers who have attained the age of superannuation should be done only in rare and exceptional cases and the government move was “mala fide”.Trinamool Congress (TMC) member Saugata Roy contended that the two agencies were two arms of the government used to harass Opposition leaders.Congress members K Suresh, Adhir Ranjan Chowdhury and RSP member N K Premachandran also opposed the introduction of the bill. The members said piecemeal extensions would lead to officers’ loyalty to the government.The ED director is appointed by the central government on the recommendation of a committee chaired by the central vigilance commissioner and members comprising vigilance commissioners, home secretary, secretary DOPT and revenue secretary.The CBI chief is selected on the basis of the recommendation of a committee consisting of the Prime Minister, the Chief of Justice of India and the leader of the Opposition.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/winter-session-bills-to-extend-tenures-of-cbi-ed-directors-introduced-in-lok-sabha-101638559314102.html
04-12-2021||India||Kodiyeri Balakrishnan returns as Kerala CPI(M) state secretary||Senior leader Kodiyeri Balakrishnan returned to the Communist Party of India (Marxist) state secretary’s post on Friday after a year, the party secretariat said. Balakrishnan was on leave for one year citing health reasons. Suffering from cancer, he went to the United States for treatment in December 2020 and returned after a month.Balakrishnan, a member of the party politburo, rose from the ranks--started his career as a student activist. He later was the party’s Kannur district secretary and was home minister in the V S Achuthanandan-led government. Close to Kerala chief minister Pinarayi Vijayan, Balakrishnan is known for his organisational prowess. The main reason behind his long leave was the arrest of his second son Bineesh Kodiyeri in connection with a drug haul in Bengaluru last year, party insiders said.Bineesh spent one-year in the jail and was granted bail by Karnataka high court last month. After his son’s arrest he offered to quit in November last year but the party granted him long leave citing his health conditions, people familiar with the developments said.Bineesh was arrested in August 2020 after the arrest of alleged drug peddler Anoop Mohammad and two others in Bengaluru, and Mohammad reportedly took Bineesh name as his business partner. The Enforcement Directorate (ED) took over the case and Bineesh was arrested and charged under Section 19 (1) of the Prevention of Money Laundering Act. In the charge sheet, the ED said Bineesh pumped in unaccounted money into the bank account of Mohammad and took heavy returns.[Unsure if below bit has to be included] Balakrishnan’s sons have been allegedly involved in controversial rows.Balakrishnan’s first son, Binoy Kodiyeri, is also mired in a paternity case. A Mumbai-based woman accused Binoy of allegedly raping her for years on the pretext of marrying her. In her complaint with Mumbai Police, she said Binoy was exploiting her and she has an eight-year-old son out of their relationship. She said that she did not know Binoy was already married and that he repeatedly lied and promised that he would marry her. The case is pending before the Maharashtra high court now.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/kodiyeri-balakrishnan-returns-as-kerala-cpi-m-state-secretary-101638559253334.html
04-12-2021||India||Akhilesh Yadav backs Mamata Banerjee in Opposition jigsaw||Samajwadi Party (SP) chief Akhilesh Yadav on Friday welcomed West Bengal chief minister Mamata Banerjee’s initiative to forge a national front against the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP), appearing to throw his weight behind the Trinamool Congress (TMC) that kept up its high-decibel attack on the Congress for a third straight day.Yadav, who is touring the poll-bound state to galvanise support for his party, was asked in Jhansi whether he will consider joining the Opposition alliance as envisioned by Banerjee.“I welcome Mamata Banerjee; the way she finished the BJP in Bengal, the SP will finish the BJP in Uttar Pradesh,” he said, a day after party leaders indicated that Banerjee was likely to join his statewide tour and campaign for the SP.“We will talk about this when the time comes,” he said in response to a question about when the Bengal CM was likely to join the campaign.Yadav, who was in alliance with the Congress in the previous assembly elections in UP only to slump to a miserable defeat, also said that the Congress is likely to get zero seats in the 2022 assembly elections.“I don’t know the role of the party in UP politics but the people will reject it,” he said.The TMC, too, kept up its attack on the Congress and wrote in its mouthpiece, Bengali newspaper Jago Bangla, that the Congress was in the “deep freezer”.“The TMC has been saying this for a long time that the Congress is a spent force. They don’t have the zeal to fight the BJP. The party is so bogged down by infighting that it hardly has time or energy to build an opposition,” the article titled ‘Congress in deep freezer’ said.“The country currently needs an alternative front and opposition parties have given that responsibility to Mamata Banerjee. They are looking up to her to fill the vacuum. She is presently the most popular opposition face in the country,” it said.The remarks came amid mounting tensions between the Congress and the TMC, which has been looking to aggressively expand its national footprint since its victory in the West Bengal assembly elections in May.On Wednesday, Banerjee launched an unprecedented, though veiled, attack on the Congress and said the Congress-led United Progressive Alliance (UPA), a coalition she was a part of, didn’t exist anymore. She said if someone stayed abroad “half the time” and wasn’t on the field, the BJP will “bowl you out”, ostensibly a reference to Congress leader Rahul Gandhi.She also pitched for Opposition unity to take on the BJP in the 2024 general election, with Nationalist Congress Party (NCP) chief Sharad Pawar by her side.A day later, TMC poll strategist Prashant Kishor, widely credited for the TMC’s victory in Bengal, appeared to expand on the idea. “The IDEA and SPACE that #Congress represents is vital for strong opposition. But Congress’ leadership is not the DIVINE RIGHT of an individual especially, when the party has lost more than 90% elections in last 10 years,” he tweeted. “Let opposition leadership be decided democratically,” he addedIn the last three months, the TMC engineered high-profile defections from the Congress, including former Goa chief minister Luizinho Faleiro and ex-Assam MP Sushmita Dev. Last week, the TMC poached 12 lawmakers from the Congress in Meghalaya, including former CM Mukul Sangma.The frenetic moves underlined the listlessness within the Congress that has been roiled by infighting, exit of senior leaders and open dissension on the party’s leadership and direction.The Congress sought to paint Banerjee as a political opportunist who had no ideological convictions and had forged alliances with the BJP in the past. “The TMC is a broker of the BJP. Every day it is coming up with some things to appease the BJP,” said Adhir Chowdhury, leader of the Congress in the Lok Sabha.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/akhilesh-backs-mamata-in-opposition-jigsaw-101638559074035.html
04-12-2021||India||Help implement Constitution’s spirit: Amit Shah to IPS probationers||Union home minister Amit Shah on Friday interacted with 122 IPS probationers in Delhi during which he asked them to discharge their duties by rising above the attitude of ‘what is there for me, why should I care’ and never avoid basic policing. “If you rid yourself of this attitude you will be able to handle any situation with ease,” Shah said, while addressing the officers of 2020 batch. He told the new IPS officers that the focus of their policing activities should be the police station and the focus of information should be the Beat Officer in a police station, which will help them a great deal“When an IPS officer will understand the language, history and social structure of the state of his cadre properly, only then he will be able to discharge his duties well,” he added. He further asked all the police officers to pay attention to issues related to the internal security of the country in totality. “There is a need for coordination at the national level without interfering with the rights of the States and respecting the spirit of the Constitution to prevent crimes such as smuggling of fake currency, arms smuggling, and narcotics,” Shah said. “Our constitution has placed its trust on you to serve the country for 30 to 35 years and you should try to bring the spirit of the Constitution to the ground level fearlessly, because those who take a stand become societal agents of change,” he told the probationers. He further asked them to be good team leaders and take everyone in the team along to bring about a change in the image of the policeHe asked female police officers to visit schools and interact regularly with the girl child so that the girls in the country are inspired to come forward in the service of the country.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/help-implement-constitution-s-spirit-shah-to-ips-probationers-101638558895194.html
04-12-2021||India||Rahul Gandhi attacks Centre over no data on farmer deaths during agitation||Congress leader Rahul Gandhi on Saturday hit out at the Union government, calling it “arrogant” for admitting in Parliament that it had no official record of the number of farmers who died during their year-long agitation against the now-repealed three central farm laws. Claiming that he has a list of 700-odd farmers who died during their agitation, Gandhi said he will submit the list in Parliament on Monday.“The Centre said that the ministry of agriculture has no record of these 700 martyred farmers. But we did some homework and as it turns out, there are 403 people who the government of Punjab has compensated ₹5 lakh (each) with... Why doesn’t the Government of India have the decency to give compensation to the families of the martyred?” Gandhi said, while addressing a press conference, adding if the government could not get the names of dead farmers it could refer to the Congress’s list and provide the families with ex gratia.The Lok Sabha MP from Wayanad said, “The Prime Minister admitted his mistake and apologised to the nation. As a result of that “mistake”, 700 people have died. The government should at least pay compensation for the sacrifices they (farmers) made.”Besides the list of 403 deceased farmers in Punjab, he said, the Congress has a list of 100 farmers from outside Punjab who died during the agitation and another list of about 200 deceased farmers has been compiled based on public records.Later in the day, Gandhi tweeted in Hindi, “Modi ji only has the numbers of his industrialist friends. We have the names and numbers of the farmers who died during the agitation.”In a written reply to the Lok Sabha on December 1 during the ongoing winter session, Union agriculture minister Narendra Singh Tomar said the government did not have any record of farmers who died during the protest and therefore there was no question of compensation to the families. This is the second time the Union government has informed Parliament it had no information on farmers’ death at various protest sites. During the monsoon session too, held in July and August, the government said it had no data.“What is the big issue in paying compensation to these people? We are doing it. The Punjab government had nothing to do with the death of these farmers. But it has paid ₹5 lakh to each victim’s families,” the former Congress president said.“They are today facing an environment, where there is huge joblessness. You have not let them work for one year. You have taken away their livelihood, now you are saying to them, you don’t exist,” Gandhi added.Union minister Tomar brushed aside the Congress leader’s allegations, saying “even Congressmen don’t believe in Rahul Gandhi’s statements”.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/rahul-gandhi-attacks-centre-over-no-data-on-farmer-deaths-during-agitation-101638558894018.html
04-12-2021||India||Punjab: 4 hand grenades, tiffin bomb found in Gurdaspur; border police on alert||Four hand-grenades and a tiffin bomb were recovered in Gurdaspur district, days after two terror modules sponsored by Pakistan’s Inter-Services Intelligence was busted, Punjab Police said on Friday. The hand-grenades and tiffin bomb, which was hidden in a sack, was recovered from Salempur Araiyan village of the border district, prompting the state police, especially the border district police forces, to maintain strong vigilance in the district.Two days ago, police seized a kilogram of RDX from Punjab’s Dinanagar.According to Punjab director general of police (DGP) Iqbal Preet Singh Sahota, the latest recoveries came to light during a search by the Gurdaspur Sadar station house officer at a T-point near Salempur Araiyan. On checking the sach which was hidden under a bush, he found hand grenades and a tiffin bomb concealed in it, Sahota said.The bomb detection and disposal teams were subsequently summoned to defuse the explosive, he added. The Punjab Police, especially the border district police forces, are on high alert and night duty domination operations are being carried out on the directions of Deputy Chief Minister Sukjhinder Singh Randhawa, the DGP said. 
04-12-2021||India||Require global mechanism to regulate crypto: Finance minister Sitharaman||A “global mechanism” is required for effective regulation of evolving technologies and tech-driven products such as cryptocurrencies, digital payments, and data, even as India is in the process of framing laws on these matters, Union finance minister Nirmala Sitharaman said on Friday.Speaking at the InFinity Forum virtually, the finance minister said technology is ever evolving and respects no physical borders. Hence, “global action” is the only way to effectively regulate technology, she added.Replying to a specific query on regulating cryptocurrency, Sitharaman said: “So on that question... even as we’re thinking about [it]... at [the] national level, there should simultaneously be a global mechanism through which we are constantly monitoring the movement of technology...” She said such coordinated global actions are required for several digital innovations such as cryptocurrencies, technology-driven payment systems, and data privacy.Terming data a revenue stream, the finance minister said its ethical use must be ensured. “But, when you’re looking at data itself as one of the revenue-generating options to regulate, it will have to be a collective effort,” she added.Sitharaman said that because technology is evolving fast there cannot always be an immediate legislative response “for every incremental change”, and there should be some kind of independence for regulators to address emerging issues.The finance minister’s comments assume significance in the backdrop of government’s plan to frame a legislation on the matters related to virtual currencies (VCs) and regulation of private cryptocurrencies.In a written reply to the Rajya Sabha on Tuesday, Sitharaman said, “A Bill on Cryptocurrency and Regulation of Official Digital Currency for introduction in the Lok Sabha has been included in the Lok Sabha Bulletin-Part II as part of Government Business expected to be taken up during the Seventh Session of Seventeenth Lok Sabha, 2021.” The winter session that started on November 29 will continue till December 23.The Cryptocurrency and Regulation of Official Digital Currency Bill, 2021 seeks “to create a facilitative framework for creation of the official digital currency to be issued by the Reserve Bank of India (RBI). It also seeks to prohibit all private cryptocurrencies in India; however, it allows for certain exceptions to promote the underlying technology of cryptocurrency and its uses,” according to a bulletin issued by the Lok Sabha.(A line on InFinity Forum)Speaking at the fintech conference, Sitharaman said India’s digital policy is inclusive and has empowered the common man. She said 1.29 billion biometric Aadhaar identities are the prime driver in providing direct benefits to the poor. India has 1 billion wireless internet users, 700 million people using internet on phones and 600 million smartphones, she said.Speaking about the digital revolution, she said brick and mortar bank branches are not necessary to service people , as even “not so smart” phones that the poor have, are now providing them the technological platform to access their banking service without any hitch.“The technology has helped us achieve what we couldn’t achieve over the decades,” she said referring to the Modi government’s policy drive to empowering the poor through financial inclusion.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/require-global-mechanism-to-regulate-crypto-finance-minister-sitharaman-101638558773999.html
04-12-2021||India||S-400 purchase is based on threat perception, government tells Parliament||As the Indian Air Force lays the groundwork to deploy its first S-400 air defence system being imported from Russia, the government on Friday told Parliament that the $5.4-billion purchase of five such systems was a sovereign decision based on threat perception even as Washington has warned New Delhi of possible secondary sanctions under the Countering America’s Adversaries through Sanctions Act (CAATSA).“The government takes sovereign decisions based on threat perception, operational and technological aspects to keep the armed forces in a state of readiness to meet the entire spectrum of security challenges. The deliveries are as per contractual timelines,” minister of state for defence Ajay Bhatt said in a written reply to question Lok Sabha today.He said the S-400 was a potent system with operational capability to provide continuous and effective air defence to a very large area. “With the induction of this system, air defence capability of the nation will be significantly enhanced,” he said.The government’s take on the S-400 comes ahead of Russian President Vladimir Putin’s two-day visit to India on December 6 for an annual summit with Prime Minister Narendra Modi.India and Russia last week announced they would hold the maiden 2+2 dialogue of their defence and foreign ministers on the margins of the annual summit.India’s Cabinet Committee on Security (CCS), headed by PM Modi, on Wednesday took up a ₹5,100-crore deal with Russia to jointly manufacture AK-203 assault rifles at a facility in Uttar Pradesh’s Amethi.India and Russia are also expected to renew their military-technical cooperation arrangement for the period 2021-31 and sign several defence-related agreements during the summit. A key pact that could be inked is the Reciprocal Exchange of Logistics Agreement (RELOS), which will allow militaries of the two nations to access logistics and support facilities at each other’s bases.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/s400-purchase-is-based-on-threat-perception-government-tells-parliament-101638558655547.html
04-12-2021||India||Funds released for POSHAN, Beti Bachao Beti Padhao schemes underutilised: Centre||Funds released for the Union government’s flagship programmes — POSHAN Abhiyaan and Beti Bachao Beti Padhao — remained underutilised, according to data shared by the women and child development (WCD) ministry in Parliament on Friday.In a written reply to a question seeking details of funds released and utilised for various schemes being implemented for empowerment of women and development of children in the country, WCD minister Smriti Irani tabled the data in the Lok Sabha.According to the WCD data, of the ₹5,31,279.08 lakh released for POSHAN Abhiyan -- aimed at improving nutritional outcomes for children, pregnant women and lactating mothers -- between 2018-19 and 2020-21, only ₹2,98,555.92 lakh has been utilised. The data was collected from across 36 states and Union territories in the country.Similarly, of the ₹12, 359.65 lakh released for Beti Bachao, Beti Padhao scheme, which aims at addressing declining child sex ratio (CSR) and related issues of empowerment of girls and women over a life cycle continuum, in 2019-20, only ₹7,409.85 lakh has been utilised.In terms of state-wise data, Dadra Nagar Haveli utilised only ₹3 lakh out of ₹25 lakh released to it for Beti Bachao, Beti Padhao during this period while Goa utilised only ₹4 lakh out of ₹25 lakh released to it. Only Sikkim utilised 100% funds released to it for the scheme in 2019-20, WCD data said.For the POSHAN Scheme, none of the states and UTs utilised 100% funds released to it between 2018-19 and 2020-21. Chandigarh utilised ₹513.96 lakh out of ₹1,099.87 lakh released to it during this period; Chhattisgarh utilised ₹6,505.25 lakh out of ₹12,137.21 lakh released to it; and West Bengal did not utilise any amount out of ₹26,751.08 lakh released to it during this period, the data revealed.The matter of underutilisation of funds released by the WCD ministry for various schemes has also been raised by a Parliamentary Standing Committee led by BJP Rajya Sabha memberVinay Sahasrabuddhe in its 333rd report titled “Action Taken by the Government on the Observations/Recommendations contained in the Three Hundred and Twenty Sixth Report on the Demands For Grants (2021-22) of the Ministry of Women and Child Development” submitted in both the Houses in March this year, and again on November 30.“The Committee recommends that the Ministry should look into this matter seriously and to exercise financial prudence and use the allocated funds optimally and judiciously and also provide the state-wise list for underutilisation of funds along with the reasons, for other schemes like Pradhan Mantri Matru Vandana Yojana, Beti Bachao Beti Padhao etc. Unless the utilisation of funds on its key schemes goes up, the allocation has little meaning,” the committee recommended.In its response, the WCD ministry told the committee, “In order to efficiently utilise the funds allocated under various heads to the fullest extent by achieving results up to the grassroots level, ministry of women and child development has designed ‘SAKSHAM ANGANWADI and POSHAN 2.0’ for 2021-22 to 2025-26 (five years) with the ‘outcome based monitoring framework with respective indicators for the year 2021-22 is also indicated in the Scheme’s EFC.”“It has been observed that the Ministry has stated the reasons for gross underutilisation of funds for the scheme of POSHAN Abhiyaan only, while the reasons for underutilisation of funds for other schemes like Pradhan Mantri Matru Vandana Yojana, Beti Bachao Beti Padhao etc. have been left out,” the committee said.
04-12-2021||India||Polavaram project: NGT imposes ₹243 crore fine on Andhra Pradesh government||The National Green Tribunal on Thursday imposed a penalty of ₹243 crores on the Andhra Pradesh government for violating environmental norms while executing the construction of the Polavaram multi-purpose irrigation project and three of its associated schemes built on the Godavari river.Acting on a batch of petitions filed since 2018, Justice Sudhir Agarwal of the principal bench of NGT in New Delhi, who reserved his judgment on August 9, pronounced his 426-page order on Thursday.The tribunal imposed a penalty of ₹120 crores towards environmental compensation on Polavaram major irrigation project, ₹24.56 crores on Purushottapatnam lift irrigation scheme, ₹24.90 crores on Pattiseema lift irrigation scheme and ₹73.63 crores on Chintalapudi lift irrigation scheme – all on Godavari river in East and West Godavari districts.The tribunal said the penalty was 1.5% of the total project cost of the three lift irrigation schemes. The project cost for the Purushottapatnam lift scheme is ₹1,637 crore, Pattiseema, ₹1,660 crores and that of Chintalapudi, ₹4,909 crores. The first two lift schemes were completed during the previous Telugu Desam Party (TDP) government before 2019 and the Chintalapudi lift scheme is half complete. .For the Polavaram major irrigation project, the environmental compensation was fixed at only 0.75% of the original project cost of ₹16,010 crores, as there was no violation regarding obtaining environmental clearance, but there were violations in other environmental aspects, the tribunal said.The tribunal dealt with the damage caused to the environment by these projects, such as erosion of huge quantity of top soil, sand and rock all along the project canals and unscientific way of dumping the excavated material without taking any requisite precautions, apart from affecting the flora and fauna in submergence areas of the Polavaram major irrigation project.The tribunal directed that the state government pay environmental compensation to the Andhra Pradesh Pollution Control Board within three months. The amount is to be utilised for remediation and restoration of the environment under the guidance and supervision of a committee comprising experts from the Union ministry of environment and forests, central pollution control board and AP pollution control board.“The committee should be constituted within a month from now, and the plan for restoration of the environment should be prepared within two months and executed within the next six months,” the tribunal said.NGT ordered that the state government might go ahead with the remaining 50% work on the Chintalapudi lift irrigation scheme, but only after obtaining all statutory clearances, consent and a no-objection certificate within three months.NGT also took serious note of the proposed Krishna-Godavari-Pennar river linking project by the state government for which a detailed project report was submitted to the Union government last year. The tribunal said the project should not be executed or commenced unless statutory clearances, consents and permissions are obtained under relevant environmental and other laws.The tribunal found fault with the state government for commissioning the irrigation projects on the Godavari river and the river-linking project without following and observing mandatory laws relating to the environment. “These laws have been given a complete go-bye in one or the other manner. The government has adopted a stubborn and adamant attitude in going ahead with the projects,” the tribunal said in the judgment.Since there is no profit motive involved except public benefit in the execution of the projects, the tribunal said, it has confined itself to imposing environmental compensation on the state government.A senior official of the state irrigation department said on condition of anonymity that the government is contemplating challenging the NGT order in the Supreme Court. “However, a final decision will be taken by chief minister YS Jagan Mohan Reddy,” he added.Prominent environmentalist Prof K Purushottam Reddy hailed the verdict of the NGT on Polavaram and three lift schemes. “It clearly upholds the principle that the state has to follow the rule of law in taking up such huge projects. It should be an eye-opener for other states as well,” he said.
04-12-2021||India||Singer Moosewala joins Congress ahead of Punjab polls||Months ahead of the Punjab assembly elections, Punjabi singer Sidhu Moosewala, who was booked last year for allegedly promoting gun culture through one of his songs, joined the Congress on Friday.The 28-year-old singer joined the party here in the presence of Punjab chief minister Charanjit Singh Channi, state unit chief Navjot Singh Sidhu, Punjab party affairs in-charge Harish Chaudhary and cabinet ministers Raj Kumar Verka and Amrinder Singh Raja Warring. He, along with Sidhu, Chaudhary and Warring, later met party leader Rahul Gandhi in Delhi. “I am joining the Congress to correct the system. One has to be in the system to bring about changes. I have joined politics to give representation to the underprivileged sections of society,” Moosewala said after being inducted into the party. Welcoming the singer on board, Channi said Moosewala, who belongs to a village in Mansa district, knows the aspiration of the youth in Punjab. “It is an honour for the party. He will bring youngsters along for the party’s victory in the upcoming elections,” he said. Sidhu said Moosewala had earned a name in the music industry and was keen on performing equally well in politics. “Not only youngsters, people of all age groups like Moosewala. He has a unique style and is a youth icon,” Sidhu said. Later in the day, Sidhu shared on Twitter a picture of their meeting with Gandhi and said, “Brothers in arms with Boss”. Chaudhary said Moosewala “will raise a voice for the under-privileged”. Moosewala was booked last year for allegedly promoting violence and gun culture through his song “Sanju”. He was earlier booked under various provisions of the Arms Act and the Disaster Management Act in Barnala after his photographs of firing an AK-47 rifle at a firing range during the Covid lockdown surfaced on social media. A case registered against him in this regard is pending. Asked how Moosewala, who faced allegations of promoting gun culture in his songs, will give direction to the youth, Warring said, “The person who has 10 crore followers means he has already given direction to the youth, that’s why people are following him.”BJP national general secretary Tarun Chugh took strong exception to the induction of Moosewala. In a statement, he said the Congress support to “such criminal elements” in society was a warning bell for the state. (With PTI inputs)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/singer-moosewala-joins-congress-ahead-of-punjab-polls-101638558473902.html
04-12-2021||India||Kerala HC sets aside order on early 2nd Covishield dose||In a relief for the Union government, the Kerala high court on Friday set aside its earlier order that directed the Centre to allow eligible people take the second dose of Covid-19 vaccine, Covishield, after a gap of four weeks, instead of the mandatory 84 days.Setting aside the September 3 judgment of a single bench of justice PB Suresh Kumar on the appeal filed by the Union government, a division bench of chief justice S Manikumar and justice Shaji P Chaly allowed the Centre’s contention that the 84-day gap between two doses of Covid-19 jabs was fixed as per the advice of the global advisory committee on vaccine safety.The Centre also contended that the single bench’s intervention was against the government’s vaccine policy and triggered enough confusion.“Once it is established that the government acted on the basis of such advice, it is for it (the Centre) to decide how to go about it, in order to get rid of the emergent Covid-19 situation…such expert advice, on the basis of scientific study, cannot possibly be substituted by a judgment of constitutional courts, especially when no materials are produced before the court to show that the expert and scientific advices given are hasty, bad or ill advised,” the division bench said in its judgment.The high court also agreed to the Centre’s argument that the earlier verdict was against the settled norm that the court cannot interfere with policy decision of the Union government.“The order, if allowed, would set at naught the national policy for vaccine and would cause serious prejudice for the larger segment. The judgment would militate against the settled position that in matters related to government supported by scientific study, the court shall not meddle with it to substitute its view,” the Union government argued in the court, adding that if the single judge’s decision is not set aside, it could derail the vaccination policy of the country and would result in disorder in the implementation of its strategy to fight Covid-19.On September 3, justice Kumar ruled that the second dose of Covishield vaccine can be given after a gap of four weeks for those who want to take it early and directed the Union government to make necessary changes on CoWin portal. The verdict came on a petition filed by the Kitex Garments Ltd, a Kochi-based apparel making unit, questioning the long gap between two doses of vaccine.In its appeal, Kitex had said it has vaccinated at least 5,000 of its workers with the first dose of Covid-19 vaccine and has arranged for the second dose at a cost of nearly ₹93 lakh, but was unable to administer the same due to the prevailing restrictions.The single bench had also observed that if the central and state governments can permit persons travelling abroad to take early second dose of Covid-19 vaccine, the same privilege can be extended to others who need it. But it was not applicable to the free vaccine distribution being carried out by the government, it had ruled.With the latest judgment, now second dose can only be administered after the completion of the prescribed 84-day gap. According to health officials, after the September 3 judgment, there was a rush for early second dose at many vaccine centres.“It is always good to have a uniform gap between two doses,” said public health and internal medicine expert Dr N M Arun.
04-12-2021||India||Courts should uphold spirit of right against sexual harassment: Supreme Court||Sexual harassment at workplace complaints should not be defeated by hyper-technical interpretation of service rules, the Supreme Court on Friday held while reminding courts that they should uphold the spirit of the law that seeks to protect the victims against sexual harassment.A bench of justices Dhananjaya Y Chandrachud and AS Bopanna said: “We would also like to highlight a rising trend of invalidation of proceedings inquiring into sexual misconduct, on hyper-technical interpretations of the applicable service rules… It is important that courts uphold the spirit of the right against sexual harassment, which is vested in all persons as a part of their right to life and right to dignity under Article 21 of the Constitution.”The court made the observation while dealing with an appeal filed by the Border Security Force (BSF) challenging a 2018 order of the Calcutta high court, which set aside the disciplinary proceedings against a head constable who sexually assaulted a male constable under him, and directed the head constable’s reinstatement. The alleged act was categorised as a “disgraceful conduct of an unnatural kind” for which a summary security force court held that head constable guilty, and demoted him to the post of constable as punishment. The high court order later relied on technical arguments raised by the accused -- the principal among them that the original record of evidence (RoE) was insufficient to prove the charge and the order of the commandant, who ordered a summary enquiry, did not have jurisdiction to prepare an additional RoE.The top court bench said: “It is important to be mindful of the power dynamics that are mired in sexual harassment at the workplace. There are several considerations and deterrents that a subordinate aggrieved of sexual harassment has to face when they consider reporting sexual misconduct of their superior. In the present case, the complainant was a constable complaining against the respondent who was the head constable – his superior.”The bench was of the view that the existence of transformative legislation may not come to the aid of persons aggrieved of sexual harassment if the appellate mechanisms turn the process into a punishment. The judgment implored courts to interpret service rules and statutory regulations governing the prevention of sexual harassment at the workplace in a manner that metes out procedural and substantive justice to all the parties.The bench found the conclusion arrived at by the high court to be erroneous, and set it aside by saying, “It is evident that the discrepancy regarding the date of occurrence was of a minor nature since the event occurred soon after midnight and on the next day. Deeming such a trivial aspect to be of monumental relevance, while invalidating the entirety of the disciplinary proceedings against the respondent and reinstating him to his position renders the complainant‘s remedy at naught.”The complaint by the constable dated back to April 2006. The victim alleged that while he was on duty at his night post, his superior of the 72nd Battalion came and assaulted him sexually. Under the BSF Act, such conduct is punishable with a jail term of up to seven years. After the security force court reduced his rank, the BSF DGP, on appeal, restored his rank but reprimanded him with a forfeiture of five years of service for promotion and seven years of service for pension.“The history of legal proceedings such as these is a major factor that contributes to the deterrence that civil and criminal mechanisms pose to persons aggrieved of sexual harassment,” the bench noted, referring to the 15 years that this matter took from the time of filing of complaint till the decision in Supreme Court. The accused had got two favourable orders from a single-judge bench of Calcutta high court in May 2009, followed by the division bench order that was now under challenge.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/courts-should-uphold-spirit-of-right-against-sexual-harassment-supreme-court-101638558295239.html
04-12-2021||India||Naveen Patnaik finally speaks on demand to axe minister, asks where’s the proof||BHUBANESWAR: Odisha chief minister Naveen Patnaik on Friday rejected opposition demands for the removal of the minister of state for home Dibya Shankar Mishra over his alleged link to the prime accused in the murder of private school teacher Mamita Meher, wondering if there was any evidence against the minister. Patnaik also dared the opposition parties to bring any evidence they have against the minister to the notice of the Orissa high court, which is hearing petitions on the murder investigations and has appointed a retired judge to oversee the police probe.Mamita Meher, 26 was allegedly killed by Gobind Sahu, president of the managing committee of Sunshine English medium school in Mahaling gram panchayat of Kalahandi district on October 8 after she is reported to have threatened to expose a sex racket in the school.According to police, Sahu dismembered the body, burnt it and buried it in an under-construction stadium near the school. He was arrested on October 19 and is now in judicial custody. Since then the opposition has been stridently demanding the sacking of minister of state for home Dibya Shankar Mishra alleging his complicity in the case.Chief minister Naveen Patnaik finally decided to speak out on the controversy as opposition Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) and Congress lawmakers continued to stall assembly proceedings for the third day on Friday.“The death of Mamita Meher was a very sad and unfortunate incident and we are all deeply anguished and pained by this heinous crime. She was a young and bright daughter of Odisha, having a brilliant future. Her death is a terrible and irreparable loss. My heart goes out to the family of the victim. My Government will ensure that no stone is left unturned to see that the perpetrators of the crime are brought to justice as per law in the shortest possible time,” Patnaik said in his speech to the assembly via video conferencing from Naveen Niwas.The chief minister said he has always ensured that the police have full functional autonomy and take legal action without fear or favour against anybody if there is evidence, no matter how high and mighty he is.“Wherever there has been delinquency or negligence, stringent and exemplary action has been taken against erring police officers. In the past, there have been such sensitive cases against women,” he said.Patnaik said when Odisha is facing a looming threat of a winter cyclone in the next 48 hours and there is a looming Covid crisis and the Food Corporation of India is not lifting enough paddy, the opposition BJP and Congress should cooperate in the smooth functioning of the House.“I am deeply concerned that there are attempts to prevent a member of the House from discharging his duties. The Indian Constitution has given crucial responsibility to the legislature and its members enjoy certain safeguards and privileges for helping them discharge their duties without fear, intimidation and pressure. It will be a travesty if the members of the House are not allowed to discharge their constitutional duties,” he said, a reference to the many attempts by opposition parties to embarrass his government.On Wednesday, the winter session’s first day, Congress MLAs led by Mohammed Moquim and Santosh Singh Saluja staged a sit-in at the assembly’s two entrances in an effort to prevent the minister from entering the House. Shouting slogans and holding placards that read “Go back MoS (Home)” and “Give Justice to Mamita Meher”, the legislators demanded an answer from chief minister Naveen Patnaik over the issue.On Friday, a group of BJP MLAs, sprinkled what they said was water from the Ganges and cow-dung claiming that Mishra’s entry desecrated the state assembly. “The presence of the minister during the proceedings in the last two days has made the holy House impure,” said BJP chief whip Mohan Majhi.Chief whip of the ruling BJD Pramila Mallick dismissed such protests as antics by the BJP, which she said, were aimed at the upcoming panchayat elections scheduled next year. “Instead of coming for a discussion, they are busy with propaganda over different issues to stage protests disrupting the House proceedings. If the din continues, the Speaker will take steps to restore normalcy in the House,” she said.The state’s junior home minister’s alleged proximity to the man accused of the school teacher’s gruesome murder has been used by the BJP and Congress to power its campaign against the government. There have been nearly a dozen instances of workers from opposition parties throwing eggs at vehicles of BJD ministers; once even chief minister Patnaik’s vehicle was targeted. During Patnaik’s recent visit to Balasore town, police went to the extent of stopping anyone wearing black clothes near the venue.Last month, Mamita Meher’s father and brother petitioned the Orissa high court to put the trial on the fast track. On Tuesday, the high court assigned retired district Judge ABS Naidu to supervise the probe into the murder case that is being conducted by police in Bolangir district where the girl’s family lives.The state government on Friday submitted a status report on its investigations into the murder case.Meanwhile, a Kalahandi-based weavers organisation on Friday filed an intervention petition in the Orissa high court alleging that instead of conducting a fair and impartial investigation and to unearth the real conspiracy behind the crime, the Odisha police appears to have been acting in a manner that is against the principles of a fair and impartial investigation.Santosh Kumar Meher, working president of Kalahandi Meher Samaj, that works for the welfare of the Meher community in western Odisha, alleged that the police probe wasn’t being conducted in accordance with law, and that a deliberate attempt is being made by investigators to suppress the crime and protect the offenders.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/naveen-patnaik-finally-speaks-on-demand-to-axe-minister-asks-where-s-the-proof-101638558177652.html
04-12-2021||India||Winter session: No disruption in Rajya Sabha but protests continue over MPs’ suspension||New Delhi: There was no let up in the acrimony between the government and the Opposition in the Rajya Sabha over the suspension of 12 lawmakers for the remainer of the winter session, but the differences did not come in the way of proceedings in the Upper House on Friday. Neither side, however, climbed down from its respective position -- the government repeated the demand for an apology from the opposition MPs over the conduct during the monsoon session, while the latter remained defiant about their angst at the suspension.Leader of the House Piyush Goyal lashed out at the Opposition for refusing to apologise, and said that some “provocative statements” made by leaders of some political parties whose members were involved in the “ugly scenes” witnessed in the House seemed to suggest that they endorsed the behaviour. “…The behaviour of the members outside the House even during these last few days, the way the leaders of the parties have been saying, ‘maafi kis baat k’i (apology for what), it seems as if they endorse all the attack on the marshals and the unruly scenes in the House. After that, we would like to understand…what the Opposition expects from us?” While Opposition leaders have maintained that there is a breakdown in communication over this issue, Goyal said: “I was approached by certain members of the Opposition. I said that I am happy to meet everybody, but broad parameters should be that, at least, as courtesy to the chair and House, what is required is an apology… They said, no, we cannot apologise.” The Union minister also said that he “showed instances in the past” when BJP leaders “apologised on very minor things”. “…But, they feel that what they have done is legitimate and very noble. Under these circumstances, what do we talk to the Opposition?” he asked. Responding to this, Telangana Rashtra Samithi (TRS) leader Kesava Rao said the government should make efforts to break the deadlock with the opposition. “They have to take the initiative,” he said. Before the House convened for business on Friday, members from both sides assembled at the Mahatma Gandhi statute in the complex for parallel agitations. While opposition leaders have been sitting in front of the statue since Wednesday to protest against their suspension from the Upper House for the duration of the winter session; a BJP contingent carrying placards chose the same spot to protest against the opposition MP’s actions in the House in August. The collision of the two protests spilled over in the Lok Sabha proceedings as well. Congress floor leader Adhir Chowdhury alleged that when the Opposition parties were protesting at the Gandhi statue, some “friends from BJP” created a ruckus there. Union minister Arjun Ram Meghwal countered Chowdhary: “It’s not you’re your rights alone to protest there. If any one our members want to go and protest, they too, can go at the Gandhi statue.” Meghwal added that the BJP leaders were protesting against the assault of a security personnel. “You were trying to remove the BJP leaders but the BJP leaders didn’t try to remove you.” Rashtita Janata Dal’s Rajya Sabha member Manoj Jha, on his part, referred to the protest as “gatecrashing”; TMC’s Dola Sen, who is among the suspended MPs, tweeted: “Today morning, BJP RS MPs have come to Gandhi Statue in the name of ‘save constitution’ jatra, tried to ransack the dharna of ours. Shame on them. We have to fight to save our country & our Constitution.” In August when the House took up a discussion on farmers’ protest against the new reform laws a ruckus had broken out after some opposition MPs climbed onto Rajya Sabha officials’ table, raised slogans and threw files. 12 MPs—six from the Congress, two each from the Shiv Sena and the TMC and one each from CPM and CPI-were subsequently suspended for the duration of the winter session. 
04-12-2021||India||Pakistan allows delivery of India aid to Afghanistan||Pakistan said on Friday it will allow 50,000 tonnes of wheat and medicines to be shipped from India to Afghanistan via the Wagah land border crossing in Afghan trucks, ending an impasse over the transportation of the humanitarian aid. India had said on Thursday it is engaged in discussions with Pakistan to work out modalities for supplying the life-saving medicines and wheat to Afghanistan and insisted that no conditions should be attached to the shipping of the relief materials. The Pakistan government’s decision was conveyed to the charge d’affaires of the Indian high commission at the Foreign Office in Islamabad. “The Indian government was also urged to proceed quickly to take necessary steps to expeditiously undertake the delivery of the humanitarian assistance to Afghanistan,” said a statement from Pakistan’s foreign ministry. There was no word on the development from the Indian side. The Pakistani statement said the government had decided to “allow the use of Afghan trucks for transportation from Wagah border to Torkham”, a key border crossing between Pakistan’s Khyber-Pakhtunkhwa province and Afghanistan’s Nangarhar province. The statement reiterated the Pakistani side’s position that it would allow the transportation of the wheat and medicines from India via the Wagah border crossing on an “exceptional basis for humanitarian purposes”. The statement added that Friday’s decision reflected the Pakistan government’s commitment and seriousness to facilitate the proposed humanitarian aid. Pakistan had earlier linked its decision to allow the transportation of the relief materials to the condition that the goods be moved only by Pakistani trucks. India made the proposal for shipping the wheat and medicines to the Afghan people via Pakistani soil on October 7, and received a response from the Pakistan government only on November 24. “Since then, we have had discussions with Pakistan on the modalities of this supply...Let me reiterate our belief that humanitarian assistance should not be subject to conditionalities,” external affairs ministry spokesperson Arindam Bagchi said on Thursday. The Indian side was keen on using its own trucks or Afghan vehicles in order to ensure that the relief materials directly reached the Afghan people without being diverted. The Indian side also envisages the aid will be distributed only through the UN and its agencies. 
04-12-2021||India||Some states moved court with inflated oxygen demand: Mandaviya in Parliament||Punjab reported four suspected deaths due to lack of oxygen during the second Coronavirus disease (Covid-19) wave, of the 19 states that responded to Union government’s request to share the number of such deaths, Union health minister Mansukh Mandaviya told Parliament on Friday.He hit out at the opposition over claims that the Centre hid deaths due to oxygen shortage during the bruising second wave of the pandemic, and said the government sought data from all states on the matter.“Government made all efforts possible to ensure oxygen supplies reached to states but some did not stop from politicizing the issue even during this crisis. They approached Court showing inflated oxygen requirements and elicited orders for more supplies. Even deaths due to lack of oxygen were politicized”, said the health minister.“I want to say that the Prime Minister said at the chief ministers’ meeting that there was no need to hide the number of deaths. The Centre always said during all the meetings with states that there is no need to hide the deaths due to oxygen shortage or Covid in general; all deaths should be reported. The Centre wrote several letters to states asking relevant information, of which… only Punjab said in writing that the state reported four suspected deaths and those were being investigated. We have worked sincerely and made it all public,” said the health minister. He also asked the opposition parties to stop politicising the issue, and take note of the Centre’s efforts to ramp up oxygen production to meet the increased demand during the surge.Addressing the Lok Sabha during the Question Hour, he said the Union government made “all possible efforts” to ensure the availability of oxygen and increased its production following a rise in demand during the second wave of the pandemic. “In various states 1225 PSA oxygen plants are already functional; and 3829 PSA plants are currently being established. I have begun taking certificates of successful installation from states so that we know for sure the plants are working well,” he added during the discussion on Covid in Lok Sabha. PSA stands for pressure swing adsorption, a technology that extracts oxygen from ambient air. An oxygen digital tracking system to track the daily allocation of oxygen, their dispatch and deliveries, including movement of oxygen tankers has also been developed and put in place, the minister informed. Mandaviya admitted that India’s public health care delivery system was weak, and the pandemic exposed the lacunae in the system. The Modi-led government refrained from blaming previous governments for the weak health infrastructure, he added, and has been working to strengthen it. India-made Covid-19 vaccines, said the health minister, were ready within a year, and the government provided a lot of support in the research and development of these, including financial assistance. “There was a time when it took three years for approval if someone did research on a vaccine. So, nobody used to do research. We scrapped those rules and the nation got a vaccine after research within a year -- this facility has been given by PM Modi,” he said.He also mentioned that at the start of the pandemic, India had 16,000 ventilators in all. At the begining of the pandemic, experts forecast that the country could need 75000 ventilators more.  “The government acted fast on it. The states have been provided 50,200 ventilators, of which 48,000 ventilators were installed,” said Mandaviya. The health minister also talked about ensuring supply of medicines prescribed under the Covid protocol.“Injections such as Tocilizumab and Amphotericin were not manufactured in India, but now they are. We created a buffer stock of medicines to deal with any surges,” he said.Commenting on mucormycosis , the health minister informed the parliament that a total of 51,775 cases have been reported till November 29.He said in a written reply that health ministry proactively supported states to tackle the challenge posed by cases of mucormycosis during the second surge of Covid-19. According to the government data shared by the health minister, 34.6 million corona cases have been reported in India and 460,000 people died, a 1.36% case fatality rate.“Also, 25,000 cases and 340 deaths per million population have been reported in India, which is one of the lowest in the world,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/some-states-moved-court-with-inflated-oxygen-demand-mandaviya-in-parliament-101638557936405.html
04-12-2021||India||Farmers’ group stops Kangana’s car in Punjab||A group of farmers on Friday stopped actor Kangana Ranaut’s car in Punjab’s Rupnagar district, demanding an apology from her over her remarks on those who protested against Centre’s farm laws. In November last year, Kangana tweeted a photo of an elderly woman agitator, stating that she was available for ₹100 to protest. The actor, while sitting in her car, made a video of the incident. “A mob surrounded me as I entered Punjab. They are calling themselves farmers. They are attacking me, abusing me, and threatening to kill me,” she said in the video posted on her Instagram account. Vir Singh Barwa, farm outfit Kirti Kisan Morcha’s Ropar chief, said they gheraoed Ranaut’s car to question her over her statement. “As we got information that Kangana will go via our town, we made a plan to gherao her. We stopped her cavalcade at 2pm. Our activist Jarnail Kaur told her that ‘you have said that we get ₹100 for participation in the protest, we will give you ₹2500 for work in our fields,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/farmers-group-stops-kangana-s-car-in-punjab-101638557814044.html
04-12-2021||India||Omicron in India: Consider vaccine booster shots for 40+, says expert panel||India’s genomic sequencing consortium has suggested that booster shots of the Covid-19 vaccines be administered to people over the age of 40 years, targeting those who are at the highest risk of exposure and severe disease, as one response to the new Omicron variant of the Sars-CoV-2 virus that causes coronavirus disease (Covid-19).“Low levels of neutralising antibodies from the current vaccines are unlikely to be sufficient to neutralise Omicron, although the risk of severe disease is still likely to be reduced. Based on the preliminary data, it is likely that population immunity and vaccine-induced immunity may not sufficiently block its propagation,” said the Indian SARS-CoV-2 Genomics Consortium (INSACOG) in its weekly bulletin for November 29 released by the country’s department of biotechnology on Friday.Since the bulletin was prepared, two cases of infection by the Omicron variant have been identified in India, and experts say many more could emerge in coming days.A booster dose is an additional dose of the Covid-19 vaccine administered after completing the two-dose schedule of the vaccines currently in use to further increase the level of protection. The National Technical Advisory Group on Immunization (NTAGI), which recommends the vaccine use and its schedule to the central government, is to discuss the issue of booster dose in its recent meetings, as per government officials.“Vaccination of all remaining unvaccinated at-risk people and consideration of a booster dose for those 40 years of age and over, first targeting the most high-risk / high-exposure may be considered, since low levels of neutralising antibodies from current vaccines are unlikely to be sufficient to neutralise Omicron, although risk of severe disease is still likely to be reduced,” the INSACOG bulletin said.A researcher whose institution is part of INSACOG said there is no explicit recommendation.“INSACOG is not recommending a booster dose; the document says vaccinate the unvaccinated and consider boosters for high-risk groups. There is no actual recommendation for booster; just a possibility as we get evidence for immune escape,” this person added on condition of anonymity.Union health minister, Mansukh Mandaviya, said in parliament on Friday that the government will go by scientific advice to decide on boosters.“We have two types of decision here: political and scientific. There is no solution to the political part of it but our decision has to be based on science,” said Mandaviya in Lok Sabha, during the discussion on Covid-19.Several members sought clarity from the government on boosters, which have become the norm in the US and most European nations. They also asked about vaccination for children.Mandaviya said 75 members took part in Thursday’s debate that lasted nearly 12 hours. The debate concluded past midnight and the minister gave his reply on Friday.Senior government officials have also maintained since September, before the Omicron variant was detected, that the only question regarding boosters was “when” not “if”. . But experts and government officials have maintained that the priority was to vaccinate all adults first.In addition, the fourth national round of sero-surveillance conducted in June-July showed that 67% of the population had antibodies against the Sars-CoV-2 virus.The consortium in its bulletin has also said early detection and genomic sequencing, monitoring travel to and from known affected areas, and contact tracing of Covid-19 cases linked to the Omicron affected areas are important in ensuring that the infection does not spread.INSACOG has also suggested increasing testing and looking out for S-gene dropout as a proxy for detecting Omicron cases in India. The RT-PCR kits look for a few target genes of the virus in a patient sample . Kits that use S-gene or regions of the spike protein, along with other targets, to look for the virus might register a false negative for the S gene and positive for the others because of the high number of mutations in the spike protein of the omicron virus.“In some PCR tests one of the three target genes is not detected (called S gene dropout or S gene target failure). Such a phenomenon was previously seen for Alpha, which is currently not in active circulation and thus SGTF can be used as marker for this variant, pending sequencing confirmation,” INSACOG said in its bulletin.According to the consortium, the Omicron variant has 15 mutations in the receptor binding domain that helps it connect with human cells.“This is the highest number of mutations yet seen, many of which are at antibody binding sites and may reduce the effectiveness of neutralizing antibodies (antibodies that specifically target the virus and either destroy it or prevent it from entering the human cell),” INSACOG said.Dr GC Khilnani, former head of the pulmonology department at All India Institute of Medical Sciences and the chairman of PSRI Institute of pulmonary, critical care, and sleep medicine, said, “We have to vaccinate the unvaccinated fast and also consider booster shot for others now.”He added, “A study from Frace in 159 kidney transplant patients showed that they did not mount an immune response after receiving two doses of the vaccine, but after three 49% of them did. What this means is that those who are immunocompromised (such as people who have undergone transplant, have HIV/AIDS, or have cancers) a third dose must be administered even before six months and for all others after six months.”But there is also an ethical issue here, he indicated.“There are countries that have been able to vaccinate only 3% of the population and there are countries that have vaccinated over 80%. It has to be a global responsibility otherwise the virus will continue circulating.”
04-12-2021||India||Farm fires gone, weather now polluting Delhi’s air?||The Union government told the Supreme Court on Friday that it is constituting an enforcement task force and 17 flying squads to implement pollution control measures through surprise checks, inspection and closure of polluting units. On Thursday, the top court observed that it could set up a task force itself since “nothing is really happening to control pollution”.The court is not wrong about the pollution problem. Delhi’s Air Quality Index (AQI) has been in the “severe” category in four out of the last seven days ending December 2, according to 24-hour bulletins issued by the Central Pollution Control Board at 4pm. PM2.5 concentration level – it is the most harmful pollutant – has been above the “severe” benchmark for five of seven days ending December 1. Even the light rain on December 2, did little to bring down pollution levels with AQI remaining in the “very poor” category (346) according to the 24-hour average at 4pm on December 3.The recent spike in pollution comes despite a fall in the contribution of pollutants from stubble burning. According to data from VIIRS instrument aboard the Suomi-NPP satellite, the number of farm fires fell every week after the second week of November. The spike in pollution, even though farm fires have fallen, underlines the importance of climatic conditions in pollution levels in not just in Delhi but entire north India. This also highlights the need for a holistic pollution policy instead of ad-hoc measures. Here are four charts which explain this argument in detail.Latest spike in Delhi pollution despite decline in farm firesThe daily average of PM2.5 levels in Delhi was very high in the first week of November. The situation improved over the month, only to worsen again towards the end. A weekly classification of days by PM 2.5 levels shows this clearly. There were nine ‘severe’ days in the first half of November. This came down to just one day in the third week, but increased to four again in the last eight days of the month.Data from the SAFAR database shows that the farm fires had a very different role to play in the spike in overall pollution levels in the beginning and end of November. Stubble burning contributed to 8% of the PM2.5 concentration in the period between October 30 and November 3. This increased to 30% between November 9 and 13. The average contribution of stubble burning to PM2.5 levels was 4% in the last week of November. This data corroborates a satellite-based count of number of farm fires in the adjoining states.To be sure, there need not be a one-to-one correspondence between farm fires and their polluting impact on Delhi, as was explained by HT on November 16.What explains the recent spike in pollution?Probably it’s the weather. There has been very little rain, low wind speed and day time temperatures have been lower than average.Low rains in November didn’t helpOne reason why October air in Delhi and large parts of north India was cleaner than usual was the very high rainfall washing away the pollutants in air in the literal sense. The tables have turned in November, with most north-Indian states experiencing lower than normal rainfall in November. Punjab, Haryana, Delhi, Uttar Pradesh, and Bihar – all received rainfall 150% or more above the long period average or LPA (the average of rainfall in 1961-2010 period) for October. This was among the top 10 years of highest October rainfall since 1901 in all these states except Haryana, where it was the 18th highest. This helped these states in October, as rainfall washes away the pollutants. This advantage vanished in November. None of these states received even half a millimetre of rainfall when the LPA for November ranges from 3.6 mm in Haryana to 6.2 mm in Bihar.Neither did low day-time temperaturesHigher day-time temperatures can prevent accumulation of pollutants close to the ground during the day when vehicular and industrial pollutants are more likely to be added to the air. While November in itself is colder than October, this year the day-time temperatures in November also deviated further below normal. Average maximum temperature for November in Delhi was 6.1% below the 1981-2010 average in the month of November.The statistics described above show clearly how Delhi’s pollution levels remain at the mercy of meteorological factors. The December 2 air quality forecast on the SAFAR website speaks for itself, “The AQI today (December 2) indicates ‘very poor’ air quality. For the next three days, winds are likely to be calm reducing ventilation leading to deterioration of air quality but within the same category. From 6th Dec onwards winds are expected to increase dispersing pollutants but AQI likely to remain in ‘very poor’ category. Partly cloudy sky and low mixing layer height are preventing efficient dispersion of pollutants”, the forecast says.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/farm-fires-gone-weather-now-polluting-delhi-s-air-101638557635088.html
04-12-2021||India||Cabinet secretary asks states to ensure nocasualties take place as Jawad nears||Cabinet secretary Rajiv Gauba on Friday directed all state and central agencies to follow all necessary protocols to ensure “no scope for loss of lives and to minimize the damage of property” from cyclonic storm Jawad, which is expected to cross the coast between north Andhra Pradesh and Odisha by Saturday morning.Reviewing the preparedness of states, central ministries and other agencies to deal with the impending cyclonic storm in a meeting of the National Crisis Management Committee (NCMC), Gauba stressed on the restoration of essential services in the shortest possible time with minimum disruption and uninterrupted functioning of Covid-19 hospitals.According to a statement released by the committee, the meeting was attended by chief secretaries and senior officers of Andhra Pradesh, Odisha, West Bengal and Andaman & Nicobar Islands who apprised it of preparatory measures put in place to deal with the storm.The Cabinet secretary directed that all fishermen and vessels, which are out at sea, must be accounted for by the concerned states for which required assistance will be provided by Coast Guard and other central agencies in this regard.“Public messaging may be carried out to ensure that people in the path of the cyclone are provided with suitable instructions and guidance during the period,” he said.State officials said that cyclone shelters have been readied, and efforts were underway to ensure the safe return of fishermen from the sea and evacuation of people from low lying areas. Action has been taken to stock food grains, drinking water and other essential supplies, they added.Teams for maintenance and restoration of power, roads, water supply and other essential services have also been positioned, and harvesting of standing crops is also being done to minimise damages, they said.Officials from the National Disaster Response Force (NDRF), who also attended the meeting, informed the committee that an adequate number of teams have been deployed in the states that were likely to be affected and additional teams are on standby. Rescue and relief teams of the Army and Navy along with ships and aircraft are ready for deployment as required, they added.According to India Meteorological Department (IMD), the cyclonic storm is likely to reach west-central Bay of Bengal off the coast of north Andhra Pradesh and Odisha by Saturday morning. Thereafter, it is likely to recurve north-northeastwwards, move along the coast of Odisha and adjoining Andhra Pradesh and cross the coast around Puri by December 5 noon.Squally wind, gusting up to 65 kmph, is likely to start along and off the coast of north Andhra Pradesh and Odisha from Friday midnight, the weather office said. Wind speeds will increase up to 100 kmph from Saturday evening for the subsequent 12 hours, it added.The weather bureau has also forecast heavy to very heavy rainfall at isolated places over West Bengal on Saturday and Sunday, and heavy rainfall at isolated places over Assam, Meghalaya and Tripura on Sunday and Monday.Secretaries and senior officers from ministries/department of home affairs, civil aviation, ports, railways, shipping and waterways, petroleum & natural gas, power and fisheries along with those from National Disaster Response Force (NDRF), IMD, and National Disaster Management Authority also attended the meeting.(With PTI inputs)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/cabinet-secretary-asks-states-to-ensure-nocasualties-take-place-as-jawad-nears-101638557333696.html
04-12-2021||India||Omicron scare in India: 51 foreign returnees under lens in 7 states||Fifty one passengers who came from “high risk” countries have tested positive for Covid-19 in seven states and their samples have been sent for genome sequencing to health ministry accredited laboratories to confirm whether they have been infected by the Omicron variant of the SARS-CoV-2 virus, officials in these states said.Most of them have come to India from some high-risk African countries in the past fortnight or so, officials said. Of them, nine each are in Rajasthan, Maharashtra and Uttar Pradesh, 13 in Telangana, two in Tamil Nadu, eight in Delhi and one in Gujarat. According to officials in these states, most of them are asymptomatic, some have mild Covid, and the process of tracing their contacts is on. Their experience fits with the global narrative emerging around Omicron -- high transmissibility but milder symptoms when compared to the Delta variant.The first cases of the Omicron variant in India were confirmed in two people in Bengaluru city in Karnataka on Thursday. One of them, a South African, flew to Dubai on November 27, without informing the local authorities. The other is a Bengaluru based doctor, whose contract tracing is being done, officials in the Karnataka health department said.According to Maharashtra health minister Rajesh Tope, swab samples of 28 people, who returned from high risk countries, in the past one month have been sent for genome sequencing with nine of them having tested positive for Covid.“We are yet to establish whether they are carrying the new Omicron variant,” he said, adding that 2,868 passengers have entered the state from different countries between November 10 and November 30 and of them, 485 have been tested. Chief medical officer, Jaipur, Narottam Sharma said that nine of a family, including four who arrived from South Africa, have tested positive for Covid. “They have been quarantined and samples have been sent for genome sequencing,” he added.The four came to their ancestral home in Sikar district on November 25 to attend a marriage that took place in Delhi about a week ago. Sharma said the Delhi government has been informed about the cases as the bride’s family is from Delhi. The four came to India via Dubai and had Covid-19 negative test reports, he said.The nine have been admitted in Rajasthan University of Health Science (RUHS), a dedicated government hospital for Covid-19 patients. Currently, Rajasthan has 213 active cases, of which 114 are from Jaipur alone.Uttar Pradesh government officials said nine foreigners, including a 13-year-old, have tested positive for Covid-19. They visited an ashram in Vrindavan in Mathura district. While three of them have left India, officials said, the remaining are in quarantine at ashram itself. All reached India mid-November.Tamil Nadu health minister M Subramanian told reporters that two passengers from high risk countries have tested positive for Covid-19 on arrival on Friday morning and their samples have been sent for genome sequencing. The patients under suspicion of carrying the new variant are a 10-year-old child who travelled from the UK to Chennai and a 56-year-old man who travelled from Singapore to Trichy, he added.A Gujarat health department official said that a person in Surat, who landed from South Africa, tested positive for Covid. His swab samples have been sent for genome sequencing.In several states such as Bihar, Uttar Pradesh, Odisha and Karnataka, efforts are being made to trace passengers who have come from high risk countries where Omicron cases have been reported. In Karnataka, police have been asked to search for 57 African students, who arrived in the state over the past month, but whose mobile phones appear to be switched off, state health department officials said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/omicron-in-india-43-foreign-returnees-under-lens-in-6-states-101638557216432.html
04-12-2021||India||Breaching barriers: Navy to deploy more women on warships||The Indian Navy is going ahead with a plan to give women officers more opportunities to serve aboard warships alongside their male counterparts, with several women already assigned to front-line ships operating in the broad expanse of the Indian Ocean Region (IOR), navy officials familiar with the matter said on Friday.The count of women serving aboard warships has gone up from just four earlier this year to 28 as of December as a result of the navy sharpening its focus on the plan, said one of the officials cited above.The navy deployed four women officers on warships in early 2021 after a hiatus of almost 25 years, opening more roles to them and crushing gender barriers that limited opportunity.“The number of women on warship duties is steadily increasing. We are looking at deploying two to three women officers on every warship. Currently, 28 women are serving aboard around 15 warships,” said a second senior officer. The women are serving as pilots, observers, logistics officers and doctors on warships.Excluding the medical wing, in which women have served for decades, the navy accounted for more than 700 women officers who formed 6.5% of its overall officer cadre (as of March 2021).Submarines, however, are still off limits to women.In early 2021, India’s only aircraft carrier INS Vikramaditya and fleet tanker INS Shakti became the navy’s first warships to be assigned women crewmembers (two each) since the late 1990s. In a short-lived experiment, women from the navy’s logistics and medical branches were deployed on fleet tanker INS Jyoti in 1997.Navy chief Admiral R Hari Kumar on Friday said the navy was taking initiatives to give women more opportunities in consonance with the government’s objective to empower them.“We have taken measures towards providing additional opportunities for women officers. They have been appointed on board almost all major warships. Induction of women officers into the information technology branch will commence in June 2022,” Kumar said at his annual press briefing on the eve of Navy Day.“The women who join the navy are of very high calibre and they have been performing on par with their male counterparts. Sometimes even better,” the navy chief said.He said the modalities for downstream training of women cadets at the National Defence Academy (NDA) were being worked out, and the navy was fully prepared to induct women across a spectrum of roles and responsibilities.A third of the over 500,000 candidates who took the NDA examination last month for entry into the premier joint services training institution near Pune were women.It was their maiden attempt at cracking the entrance exam conducted by the Union Public Service Commission (UPSC) on November 14, after the Supreme Court opened the doors of the academy to women in a landmark order in October.The apex court’s order making women eligible to join NDA -- formally inaugurated 66 years ago and has thus far been a male preserve -- came almost three decades after they were first allowed to serve in select branches of the army, air force and navy as short-service commission (SSC) officers. Women in the military are now eligible for permanent commission.The headcount of women in the military has increased almost threefold over the last six years, with more avenues being opened to them at a steady pace. As of February 2021, 9,118 women were serving in the three services.One of the turning points for women came in 2015 when the Indian Air Force decided to induct them into the fighter stream. But tanks and combat positions in infantry are still no-go zones for women.
04-12-2021||India||Took US 50 yrs, integration needs time, says navy chief||The US military took almost 50 years to fine-tune its current joint command and control structures after the Japanese attack on Pearl Harbor during World War II highlighted the need for greater coordination among American forces, India’s new navy chief Admiral R Hari Kumar said on Friday.His comments, in response to a question on jointness in the armed forces, were a broader attempt to put across the complications associated with creating integrated commands at a time when India is inching towards rolling out its theaterisation plan to enhance the military’s effectiveness and reshape the conduct of future operations.“Jointness and integration can’t happen in a very, very short time. If you look at the US military, it has taken almost 50 years,” the navy chief said at his annual press briefing on the eve of Navy Day. “The thrust for jointness came after the Pearl Harbor attack (in 1941). I am not saying that we should take a similar time but it’s a complicated process, and it’s not something which can just be put together in a short time,” the navy chief said.The US military’s joint command and control model is the outcome of the Goldwater-Nichols Defense Reorganization Act passed by Congress in 1986.Kumar said the navy fully supported the ongoing defence reforms to enhance tri-service synergy. The current theaterisation model seeks to set up four integrated commands --- two land-centric theatres, an air defence command and a maritime theatre command.“We are looking at the establishment of the Maritime Theatre Command shortly, which would further buttress joint planning and joint application of force. The details are being worked out and may be finalised by the middle of next year,” said Kumar, who took over as navy chief on November 30.He was closely associated with the theaterisation drive in his former role as chief of integrated defence staff to the chairman, chiefs of staff committee (COSC).The department of military affairs (DMA), headed by chief of defence staff (CDS) General Bipin Rawat, who is spearheading the theaterisation drive, last month asked the three services to expedite their ongoing studies on the creation of theatre commands and submit comprehensive reports within six months. The deadline for submitting the reports was advanced from September 2022 to April 2022.Elaborating on the proposed Maritime Theatre Command, Kumar said the existing command and control structures would largely remain intact with a lean “theatre command organisation superimposed on them.”The charter of the Maritime Theatre Commander will largely be operations, with little administration or maintenance role, he said. “The navy chief at some point will be responsible only for raising, training and sustaining forces. But certainly, the chief will be in the loop for operations as well because he will be part of the COSC,” Kumar said.“These are the broad contours that we are looking at. It may happen in six months...it may take a little longer. The time-frame will depend on how we resolve the complexities involved and the nitty-gritty of theatre commands,” Kumar said.Any structural change to an effective organisation to ensure future readiness requires detailed deliberations among stakeholders and smooth transition management, said Lieutenant General Vinod Bhatia (retd), the former director of the Centre for Joint Warfare Studies. “Security challenges dictate that we set up theatre commands at the earliest,” Bhatia added.The armed forces currently have 17 single-service commands spread across the country. The Indian Army and the Indian Air Force have seven commands each, while the Indian Navy has three. Creating theatres would involve merging the existing commands.The army’s Northern Command is the only single-service command that will stay outside the scope of the military’s theaterisation drive because of its critical role. The Udhampur-based command is responsible for guarding the country’s borders with Pakistan and China in the north and is the nerve centre of counterterrorism operations in Jammu and Kashmir.Kumar said the creation of DMA and the post of CDS two years ago was “the single most important” higher defence organisation reform in the Indian military since Independence.“The benefits include clear dissemination of national policy objectives to the military, greater awareness of national challenges, direct responsibility and accountability to the political executive, faster decisions and approvals and fewer layers of bureaucracy,” the navy chief said.The appointment of a CDS was one of the most significant recommendations made by the K Subrahmanyam-led Kargil Review Committee (KRC) that was constituted in the immediate aftermath of the 1999 Kargil war to examine lapses that allowed Pakistani soldiers to occupy strategic heights, the initial sluggish Indian response, and suggest measures to strengthen national security.On the challenge posed by the Chinese navy seeking to increase its footprint in the Indian Ocean Region, Kumar said the Indian Navy was keeping the region under constant surveillance and tracking the deployments of the People’s Liberation Army Navy (PLAN).“We have our plans in place. There is constant surveillance by our aircraft and mission-based deployed ships. The Chinese activities and deployments are kept under close watch,” he added.
04-12-2021||India||States step up guard, announce new rules amid Omicron scare||A day after India’s first two cases of the Omicron variant of Sars-CoV2 were detected in Karnataka, the state government ordered that only fully vaccinated people will be allowed in public spaces such as theatres and educational institutions.Several other states also stepped up checks and restrictions in the wake of the potential threat from the coronavirus variant that has now spread to over 30 countries.The new restrictions in Karnataka came as authorities increased contact tracing to identify those who came in contact with two people infected with Omicron. One of them, a 66-year-old South African national, left India on November 27; the second, a doctor, tested negative for Covid in last week of November before his next sample came out as positive.“The entry to malls, cinema halls/theatres shall be allowed only to the persons who are vaccinated with two doses of Covid-19 vaccine,” R Ashok, Karnataka’s minister for revenue, said on Friday in Bengaluru. The minister added that children whose parents have not taken both doses will not be allowed to attend physical classes in schools.The government also said that all events at public places have to be put off at least until January 15, 2022. The minister, however, ruled out imposing lockdowns, asking people not to believe social media rumours.“There shall be strict implementation of a five-fold strategy of test, track, treat, vaccinate and enforce adherence to Covid-appropriate behaviour,” according to the new guidelines.The government said that gatherings in marriages will be limited to less than 500. It announced, however, that the winter session of the state legislature in Belagavi, about 500km from Bengaluru, will start as scheduled from December 13.The new guidelines also said that the government will start the compulsory testing of health workers, people above 65 years of age, and people with comorbidities, and that all government officials must be fully vaccinated to attend office.A total of 76.5 million vaccine doses have been administered in the state so far. This means that around 29.3% of the state’s 48.9 million eligible for vaccination have been partially vaccinated, and 63.5% have got both jabs.Outside of Karnataka, the Uttar Pradesh government on Friday issued fresh Covid-19 guidelines for travellers, emphasising on screening, and isolation of people with symptoms. An order issued by additional chief secretary (home) Awanish Kumar Awasthi made district officials responsible for the spread of Covid-19 due to travellers. “If Covid infection spreads in any district due to travellers, then the officers concerned for the district will be held accountable,” the order said.The UP government asked district magistrates of Gautam Buddha Nagar and Ghaziabad to coordinate with the Delhi government to track international travellers coming to these districts, and the district magistrates and police commissioners of Lucknow and Varanasi to ensure systems were in place for the compulsory thermal scanning of all international arrivals.The Madhya Pradesh health department also issued instructions for the mandatory screening of passengers at airports, railway stations and bus terminals.“We are tracing all the people who returned from ‘at risk’ countries and conducting their RT-PCR tests. District administration have been asked to follow their health condition for 15 days and ensure genome testing of every positive person who came from foreign countries. There are no interstate travel restrictions in MP,” the state’s additional chief secretary (health) Mohammad Suleman said.The Union government has marked 11 regions, including all of Europe and several African countries, as “at-risk” based on their caseloads and the prevalence of Omicron cases.Rajasthan, where nine members of a family, four of whom came from South Africa, tested positive for Covid -- their samples have been sent for genome testing -- has started random testing at public places. State health minister Parsadi Lal Meena said the number of tests per day will be increased from 28,000 samples to 100,000 in the next few days.In Haryana, health minister Anil Vij instructed district police officials to book people found not wearing masks in public places.He also asked health officials to increase testing and re-enforce contact tracing.Several other states, including Tamil Nadu, Kerala and Maharashtra, reiterated earlier orders of mandatory testing of all international passengers. These states have made mandatory a week’s home quarantine for passengers testing negative.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/states-step-up-guard-announce-new-rules-amid-omicron-scare-101638556733880.html
04-12-2021||India||Fully prepared to deal with Omicron: Centre||The government is fully prepared to address any threat from the Omicron variant and is taking necessary steps to ensure it does not spread in the country, Union health minister Mansukh Mandaviya said in Parliament on Friday, as he stressed that the Centre will only go by scientific advice to decide on crucial issues of booster doses and starting vaccination for children.The health minister’s remarks in Lok Sabha came on a day India’s mass inoculation programme touched a major milestone: half of eligible Indians are now fully vaccinated. Another 34.8% have been partly vaccinated, according to data as of Friday evening.India has administered 1.26 billion doses of Covid-19 vaccines to nearly 796 million people — 469 million fully vaccinated and 327 million partially.Mandaviya said that of the 16,000 international passengers from “at-risk” countries that have landed in India since Wednesday, 18 tested positive for Covid-19 and their samples have been sent for genome sequencing to check if they have the Omicron variant of Sars-Cov-2.The health minister’s statement in Lok Sabha was made in the afternoon and by the end of the day, the number of foreign returnees from “at-risk” countries who tested Covid positive had risen to at least 43 across four states, according to officials in these regions.
04-12-2021||India||Ahead of Cyclone Jawad, Odisha preps for evacuation, shuts schools||The Odisha government on Friday ordered closure of schools in 19 out of the state’s 30 districts and asked all government officials to report for duty on Sunday ahead of Cyclone Jawad. It also sent directives to district collectors in Ganjam, Puri, Jagatsinghpur, Cuttack, Khordha and Kendrapara to start evacuating people living in low-lying areas and those living in kutcha houses after the India Meteorological Department predicted that cyclonic storm Jawad is likely to make landfall in Puri on December 5.The cyclonic storm with wind speed ranging between 90 and 100 kmph, lay over westcentral Bay of Bengal about 480 km south-southwest of Puri, as it continued to move north-north-westwards with a speed of 20 kmph.Pronounced as Jowad (Arabic for horse), the deep depression developed into a cyclonic circulation over west-central and adjoining south Bay of Bengal at 11.30 am on Friday and lay at around 700 km south-southwest of Paradip. Later in the evening, it continued to move north-westwards.“The storm will move north-westwards and reach north Andhra Pradesh–south Odisha coasts by the morning of December 4. Thereafter it would recurve north-northeastwards and move along the Odisha coast and reach Puri around December 5 noon,” said Mrutyunjay Mohapatra, director general of IMD. Met officials estimated that Cyclone Jawad will make landfall to the south of Puri at around 11:30 am on Sunday.If Cyclone Jawad makes landfall in Puri, this would be the second cyclone in the last two and half years to strike the coastal district. On May 3, 2019 very severe cyclonic storm Fani hit Puri with wind speed of 200 kilometres per hour affecting about 16.5 million people in Puri, Khorda and Cuttack districts that left 64 dead. An estimated 3.6 lakh houses were damaged in about 18,000 villages.Special Relief Commissioner Pradeep Jena said as per IMD’s forecasted track, the cyclone may just brush the Odisha coast near Puri or it may slightly enter the landmass. “However, the Odisha government has prepared itself for possible landfall in Ganjam or Puri or Jagatsinghpur and readied the response measures accordingly. At the time of landfall or when it passes close to the coast, the associated wind speed will be 80 to 90 kmph, gusting to 100 kmph.” After making landfall, the system will pass over Jagatsinghpur and adjoining Kendrapara districts and then re-emerge into the northwest Bay of Bengal before the weakened system heads for West Bengal.Jena said Sunday’s weekly-off for all govt employees had been cancelled and officials directed not to leave headquarters. Those on leave have been asked to cancel their leave and join duty as early as possible. The government also cancelled the popular Konark Festival and International Sand Art Festival that began on December 1. The UGC/NET examination scheduled to be held on December 3 and 4 has been postponed in Odisha and adjoining Andhra Pradesh in view of the cyclone.All 6077 boats from the state that had gone out to sea for fishing have returned to shore. The authorities of Krushnaprasad block in Puri district announced the closure of all ghats across Chilika Lake till December 6.Ahead of the cyclonic storm, NDRF has mobilised 64 teams, state fire services have prepared 172 teams for the coastal districts of Ganjam, Gajapati, Puri, Khordha, Cuttack, Jagatsinghpur, Kendrapara, Jajpur, Bhadrak and Balasore. “We have additional forces on standby to send if any district faces severe damages due to the cyclonic storm,” said Bhagirathi Ghadei, Chief Fire Officer, Cuttack.Met officials said from December 4 morning, very heavy rainfall will start in Odisha’s Ganjam district with an estimated 10 cm rain in over 24 hours. From December 4 night, very heavy rain will start in Puri district with weather officials estimating 10-20 cm rainfall during the night hours. The wind speed will be gusting at around 90-100 kmph from about midnight till Sunday morning.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/ahead-of-cyclone-jawad-odisha-preps-for-evacuation-shuts-schools-101638553253280.html
04-12-2021||India||There's freedom of expression, but can't hurt others: MP CM on comedian row at HTLS||Madhya Pradesh chief minister Shivraj Singh Chouhan on Friday said that while everyone has the right to freedom of expression, they cannot hurt the sentiments of others. He said this while speaking on the latest controversy over performances of stand-up comedians, including Vir Das and Munawar Faruqui, at the Hindustan Times Leadership Summit.In conversation with Sunetra Choudhury, the national political editor of Hindustan Times, Chouhan said any tweet or post on social media can create unrest in the state. Also read | PM Modi inspires us to work hard, says Shivraj Singh Chouhan at HTLSWhen asked about Faruqui being jailed in MP or comedians not being allowed to perform as recently conveyed by a minister in his government, the chief minister said, “We are not scared, but social media posts and tweets can create unrest. Our effort is to ensure there is no unnecessary controversy." Also read | Chouhan jabs Congress, tackles question on ‘changing culture’ of BJP"While everybody has the right to express themselves, that freedom of expression must not hurt others’ sentiments. In such situations, the government has to ensure that law and order prevails. But anybody can come and express themselves in Madhya Pradesh.”
04-12-2021||India||I don't take Rahul Gandhi seriously, says MP CM Chouhan at HTLS||Madhya Pradesh chief minister Shivraj Singh Chouhan on Friday said he never takes Congress leader Rahul Gandhi seriously, including his comments on the farmers’ issues as he is someone who has never seen the rural world or how the farming world operates.
04-12-2021||India||Privacy foundational, govts use more data than anyone else: Sundar Pichai at HTLS||Sundar Pichai, the chief executive officer of Google and its parent, Alphabet Inc, said on Friday privacy is foundational and the internet giant works hard to protect user data, adding that over time artificial intelligence will give more privacy.Joining in conversation with R Sukumar, the editor-in-chief of Hindustan Times, at the Hindustan Times Leadership Summit, the Google CEO said governments have access to more data than anyone else. “Like for managing traffic in cities and reducing pollution,” he said.Check here for LIVE updatesHe said people’s privacy expectations are constantly evolving and all of us need to challenge ourselves to provide people with the experience they are seeking for while enhancing privacy.Also read | Want to provide Indian companies with AI, tech to help scale up ideas: Pichai“We have been working hard on techniques like that,” he said while sharing examples of privacy preserving techniques.
04-12-2021||NA||Highlights: Fully prepared to fight Omicron , says Haryana minister||Welcome to hindustantimes.com live updates platform where you can find breaking news from India and across the world. Find fast updates about the latest news as it breaks.Missed an important news update? Worried about what is happening in the world of finance and how it will impact you? Want to know about the latest update on Covid-19? Don't worry, we have you covered.Follow all the updates here:Fully prepared to fight Omicron variant, says Haryana ministerHaryana health minister Anil Vij said on Friday that the state is fully prepared to fight the Omicron variant of Covid-19. "The health department has the experience of fighting the Coronavirus. The officers and employees of our health department have worked successfully in the last two waves of coronavirus," Vij told news agency ANI. MSP for crops was already there and will be there: Agri ministerUnion agriculture minister Narendra Singh Tomar said on Friday that the minimum support price (MSP) for crops was “already there and will be there in the days to come.” “Besides, to make it more effective and transparent, PM [Narendra Modi] has constituted a committee,” he told ANI in Gwalior in Madhya Pradesh.‘Before 2017, how many lungi-clad goons used to roam here?’: UP Dy CM asks at an event in Prayagraj#WATCH| Before 2017, how many lungi-clad goons used to roam here? Who in skull caps used to threaten the traders while carrying guns? Who used to encroach upon your land&threaten you to not go to Police? Remember all this:UP Dy CM KP Maurya at 'Vyapari sammelan' in Prayagraj pic.twitter.com/xsw7OBgziVUttar Pradesh deputy chief minister KP Maurya at Vyapari sammelan' in Prayagraj asked the people if they remember the “lungi-clad goons” who used to roam before 2017 in the state. “Who in skull caps used to threaten the traders while carrying guns? Who used to encroach upon your land and threaten you to not go to [the] police? Remember all this,” he was quoted as saying by ANI.IIFT MBA exams scheduled on Dec 5 postponed due to cyclone Jawad in 7 cities of Andhra, Odisha and BengalThe MBA (IB) 2022-24 of the Indian Institute of Foreign Trade (IIFT), which was scheduled for December 5, has been postponed in Vijayawada and Visakhapatnam in Andhra Pradesh, Bhubaneswar, Sambalpur and Cuttack in Odisha, and Kolkata and Durgapur in West Bengal, ANI reported citing a release. The revised dates for the exam will be announced later.Biden says preparing 'set of initiatives' to protect Ukraine from Russian attackUS President Joe Biden said that the country is preparing 'set of initiatives' to protect Ukraine from Russian attack, AFP reported.5 students aged between 13 and 14 test positive for Covid-19 in UPFive students aged between 13 and 14 test positive for Covid-19 in Uttar Pradesh's Mainpuri district.UAE signs mega weapons deal with France, buys 80 Rafale fighter jetsFrance on Friday announced the signing of a USD 18 billion armaments mega-contract for the sale of 80 of its upgraded Rafale warplanes to the United Arab Emirates (UAE), reports the Associated Press. Read more here.NDRF teams march and make announcements in Andhra's Visakhapatnam ahead of cyclone Jawad's landfallNDRF teams on Friday were seen marching at Kailasagiri in Andhra Pradesh's Visakhapatnam and make announcements for people, alerting them about cyclone Jawad. Notably, the IMD said that the cyclone is expected to make landfall near Odisha's Puri on Sunday noon.Kangana Ranaut alleges her car was attacked by farmers in PunjabBollywood actor Kangana Ranaut on Friday took to Instagram to claim that her car was attacked by farmers in Punjab. The incident happened in Anandpur Sahib as she was going to Himachal Pradesh to attend her sister's birthday celebration.Karnataka orders inquiry on India's 1st Omicron patient over RT-PCR test report: State minister R AshokaKarnataka government has ordered an inquiry on India's first Omicron Covid-19 patient over RT-PCR test reports. State minister R Ashoka told ANI that the person, “stayed at a hotel and held some meetings there.” “After that, he went away to Dubai, so there're two reports, one positive and [another] negative, which is doubtful, lab must be investigated,” the minister added to ANI.The patient is a South African national, who has already returned to his home country. India detected Omicron cases on Thursday after two were found to be infected with the strain.16,000 passengers from ‘at risk’ nations tested for Covid-19 in India, 18 found positive: MandaviyaUnion health minister Mansukh Mandaviya on Friday said that a total of16,000 passengers from 'at-risk' countries have been tested for Covid-19 in India, and 18 have been found positive. “Genome sequencing for Omicron underway,” PTI reported quoting him.Konark Sand Art Festival called off due to cyclone Jawad, says Odisha tourismAs per the reports of IMD and advisories issued by Special Relief Commissioner on Cyclonic Storm Jawad reaching the coasts of Odisha, we regret to inform that the Konark Festival and International Sand Art Festival held in Konark are being called off with immediate effect.Odisha Tourism has called off the Konark Festival and International Sand Art Festival held in Konark due to the cyclonic storm Jawad. Ukraine urges NATO to reject Russian demand for ‘guarantees’Ukraine urges NATO to reject Russian demand for 'guarantees', reports AFP. ‘Any kind of violence threat to democracy’, says Kerala governor on murder of CPM leaderKerala governor Mohammad Arif Khan said, “Any kind of violence is a threat to democracy. These matters should be settled in a civilized manner. The law enforcement agencies must do everything to bring the culprits to trial,” regarding the murder of a local CPI (M) leader, reports ANI.  Covid-19 cases, deaths per million in India ‘lowest in world’, says MandaviyaHealth minister Mansukh Mandaviya said that 3.46 crore Covid-19 cases have been reported in India and 4.6 lakh people have died so far. He also said that 25,000 cases and 340 deaths per million have been reported in India, reports ANI. “This is one of the lowest in the world,” he said.Gopal Rai writes to Centre for calling neeting of NCR states in view of pollutionDelhi Environment Minister Gopal Rai writes to Centre for calling meeting of environment ministers of states in NCR in view of pollutionDelhi environment minister Gopal Rai wrote to the Centre for calling a meeting of the environment ministers of the states in the National Capital Region (NCR) states in view of pollution, reports PTI. Karnataka CM chairs meeting on Covid-19 situation in state, 2 Omicron casesBengaluru | Karnataka CM Basavaraj Bommai chairs meeting related to COVID19 situation and the two Omicron cases(Source: CMO) pic.twitter.com/J3Ka7U9Ei7Meeting underway in Karnataka as chief minister Basavaraj Bommai discusses the Covid-19 situation in the state and the two cases of the Omicron variant that have been detected so far, reports ANI. Cyclone Jawad: 46 NDRF teams positioned at Odisha, WB, AP, 18 teams on standbyIn view of cyclone Jawad, director general of the National Disaster Response Force (NDRF) said that 46 teams have been sent to Odisha, West Bengal and Andhra Pradesh and are prepositioned there, reports ANI. “IDS is on alert if the situation arises to airlift any of the teams. 18 more teams are on standby,” he added. Bombay HC rejects former Shiv Sena MP Anandrao Adsul's anticipatory bail plea in money laundering caseThe Bombay High Court has rejected the anticipatory bail plea filed by former Shiv Sena MP Anandrao Adsul in a money laundering case, reports ANI. Congress appoints Jagdish Thakor as Gujarat unit chiefHon'ble Congress President has appointed Shri Jagdish Thakor as the President , Gujarat Pradesh Congress Committee, with immediate effect. The Party appreciates the contribution of outgoing PCC President, Shri Amit Chavda pic.twitter.com/Pj0iPHijAmJagdish Thakor appointed as president of Gujarat Pradesh Congress Committee ahead of the state assembly polls next year. Haryana orders school closure in 4 NCR districts due to worsening air qualityThe Haryana government has ordered the closure of schools in Gurgaon, Faridabad, Sonepat and Jhajjar, the four national capital region (NCR) districts, due to the deterioration of air quality.Chinese Navy present in IOR since 2008, their activities under close watch, says Navy chiefNavy Chief Admiral R Hari Kumar said that the Chinese navy has been present in the Indian Ocean Region since 2008 and there were seven to eight warships in the region, reports ANI. “There is constant surveillance by our aircraft and ships and their activities are kept under close watch,” he said.Delhi govt to install 140,000 CCTV cameras in city, says CM KejriwalDelhi CM Arvind Kejriwal said that 140,000 CCTV cameras would be installed in the city, reports ANI. So far, his government has installed 275,000 CCTV cameras, he added. “Today, Delhi is world number 1 in CCTV coverage per square km,” he added.People in UP going to change Yogi govt very soon, says SP chief Akhilesh YadavYogi gov has only changed the names of places, very soon people in UP are going to change their government. Young people, farmers & businessmen in UP have decided to get rid of the Yogi gov. Farmers in UP are going to benefit if Samajwadi Party comes here: SP Chief Akhilesh Yadav pic.twitter.com/PmDToCgECKSamajwadi Party chief Akhilesh Yadav said that the people of Uttar Pradesh will “very soon” change the Yogi Adityanath government in the state, reports ANI. “Yogi (Adityanath) government has only changed the names of places, very soon people in UP are going to change their government. Young people, farmers and businessmen in UP have decided to get rid of the Yogi government. Farmers in UP are going to benefit if Samajwadi Party comes here,” he said.‘Punjab reported 4 ‘suspected’ deaths due to oxygen shortage’: Mandaviya tells ParliamentUnion health minister Mansukh Mandaviya said that the Centre wrote to all states asking for data regarding deaths due to oxygen shortage during second wave. “19 States responded, only Punjab reported four 'suspected' deaths due to oxygen shortage,” he said. SC gives nod to hospitals' construction workThe Supreme Court on Friday expressed satisfaction over fresh steps by CAQM, It also gave go-ahead to Delhi govt for hospitals' construction work. Punjabi singer Sidhu Moosewala joins the Congress ahead of state elections9 international travellers test positive for Covid-19 at Mumbai airportNine international travellers including one from South Africa who arrived at Mumbai International Airport between 10th Nov -2nd Dec have tested positive for Covid-19. Their samples have been sent for genome sequencing: Brihanmumbai Municipal CorporationIndia reports 9,216 fresh Covid cases in last 24 hours amid Omicron scareIndia reports 9,216 fresh Covid cases in last 24 hours amid Omicron scare. ‘Coronavirus variants will keep coming, but…': DoctorCoronavirus variants will keep coming. We don't need to panic but remain cautious and proactive. We can protect ourselves from any variant if we're fully vaccinated and observe Covid appropriate behaviour, says Dr Ashok Seth, Executive Director, Fortis Escorts Heart Institute, Delhi.Omicron variant found in multiple US statesThe omicron variant of Covid-19, which had been undetected in the US before the middle of this week, had been discovered in at least five states by the end of Thursday.Enforcement task force formed to monitor compliance of anti-air pollution measuresCommission for Air Quality Management constitutes enforcement task force to monitor compliance, Supreme Court toldCertificate may be true: How man with Omicron left India after testing positiveThe 66-year-old South African man who became India's one of the first two confirmed cases of Omicron, the new variant of Covid, has already left India within a week of testing Covid positive. Read MoreNepal bans entry from nine countries amid Omicron scareNepal imposes ban on entry from nine countries including Hong Kong, in view of emergence of Omicron variant of Covid-19Gadkari says he will drive his green hydrogen car in Delhi to show it's possibleUnion minister Nitin Gadkari on Thursday said he has bought a car on a pilot basis that will run on green hydrogen. Addressing the 6th National Summit 2021 on financial inclusion, the transport minister said he will drive that car in Delhi so that people believe it's possible to get hydrogen from water. Read MoreStates brace as Cyclone Jawad nears, PM holds review meetA cyclonic storm, named Cyclone Jawad, is likely to form over central Bay of Bengal but it may not intensify into severe category as expected earlier, India Meteorological Department (IMD) said on Thursday, adding that it still has the potential to cause widespread damage over Odisha and Gangetic West Bengal on Friday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/breaking-news-live-updates-december-3-2021-101638492251133.html
