05-12-2021||India||Nagaland: 14 civilians die in Army firing, area tense||Kohima Protests erupted on Sunday after more than a dozen civilians were killed by Indian Army soldiers who appeared to have mistaken them for militants in Nagaland’s Mon district, according to officials.Thirteen civilians were killed in an ambush by the army late on Saturday and a jawan died in retaliation by locals in the district, a police officer said on condition of anonymity. On Sunday, angry villagers burned army vehicles and threw stones at a security camp in the district, about 300km from the state capital, Kohima. A civilian died and a few others were injured when security personnel opened fire at a mob that vandalised the 27th Assam Rifles camp.Union home minister Amit Shah expressed “deepest condolences to the families of those who have lost their lives” and said a high-level special investigation team (SIT) constituted by the state government will probe the incident to ensure justice. Nagaland chief minister Neiphiu Rio ordered the probe into the killings earlier and said the incident was “highly condemnable”.The Mon district administration imposed a curfew in the town and prohibited movement of all non-essential vehicles in the district. Entry into the district was also prohibited and mobile internet services were suspended in the region, a district official said.An Indian army statement said it “deeply regretted” the incident and its aftermath, adding that “the cause of the unfortunate loss of lives is being investigated at the highest level and appropriate action will be taken as per the course of law.” It said “credible intelligence” on insurgent movements indicated that a “specific operation was planned” in Mon district in Nagaland.Indian Army personnel opened fired at a truck carrying local coal miners to Oting village from Tiru late on Saturday evening, a police officer said, asking not to be named. The army was conducting an operation in the area after receiving inputs on the possible movement of militants of Yung Aung faction of the proscribed outfit National Socialist Council of Nagaland-Khaplang (NSCN-K), the officer said. Mon shares a porous international border with Myanmar, where the Yung Aung faction of the NSCN(K) is based.Another officer said the pick-up truck was ferrying Oting villagers who were working in a coal field near Tiru. Coal miners usually return home on Saturday and report back to work on Monday, the official added.An army officer, who spoke on condition of anonymity, said soldiers fired at the truck after receiving intelligence about the movement of militants, killing seven people. After angry villagers set fire to two army vehicles, the soldiers fired at them, killing six more civilians, the officer added. The police said a jawan lost his life in the attack by angry villagers.“The security forces have suffered severe injuries in the incident, including one soldier who succumbed to the injuries,” the headquarters of 3 Corps, the army unit conducting the operation, said.The bodies and those injured were shifted to the Mon district headquarters.Arson was reported from different parts of the district on Sunday in which two government vehicles were burnt, and protest marches were held. The Eastern Nagaland People’s Organisation (ENPO), the apex body of six Naga tribes of five districts including Mon, directed locals not to participate in the Hornbill Festival, the state’s biggest such even that began last week.On Sunday evening, a police officer said a case of murder was registered against unnamed army personnel and locals.Nagaland home commissioner Abhijit Sinha said Section 144 of the Code of Criminal Procedure was imposed in Mon district and internet services suspended there “till further orders”. The local police were conducting a flag march in the area to prevent any other untoward incident, he added. The Nagaland chief minister appealed to all sections of the society to maintain peace as he returned to Kohima from New Delhi after the incident. “The unfortunate incident leading to killing of civilians at Oting, Mon is highly condemnable. Condolences to the bereaved families & speedy recovery of those injured. High level SIT will investigate & justice delivered as per the law of the land. Appeal for peace from all sections,” he tweeted.The ENPO condemned the “barbaric act”. It requested all its six (Konyak, Khiamniungan, Phom, Sangtam, Yimkhiung and Chang) tribes to abstain from participating in the ongoing Hornbill Festival with immediate effect till the funeral rites of the deceased were completed, and directed them to hoist black flags at their morungs (traditional huts) at the main festival site.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/nagaland-14-civilians-die-in-army-firing-area-tense-101638728733763.html
05-12-2021||India||HT This Day: December 6, 1950 - Sri Aurobindo Ghosh passes||SAGE OF PONDICHERRY We regret to announce the death of Sri Aurobindo Ghosh. the Sage of Pondicherry, at 1-30 a.m. yesterday at Pondicherry. He was 78 years old. The Aurobindo Ashram and the entire town was in gloom on account of the passing away of the sage. He had been indifferent health keeping for the past fortnight, but the end was sudden and quite unexpected. Sri Aurobindo gave his last darshan to his disciples and devotees on November 24-the day he went in complete spiritual retirement. Thousands of Pondicherry citizens, young and old, besides the ashramites have been standing in long queues in front of the Ashram to have the last darshan of the sage. His body is lying in state on a cot in the same room in the first floor of the Ashram where he expired and where he had been in retirement since 1927. All activities of the Ashram have been suspended for 12 days and educational institutions in Pondicherry were closed for the day in his memory. Sri Aurobindo s body lay in state, and by 6 p.m. rnore than 60.000 people had filed past it in queues in absolute silence. A few attendants of Sri Aurobindo were squatting with their heads bent in the room where the body was lying in state. A painting of Buddha from Ajanta adorned the eastern walls of the room which was strewn with flowers. The body of the sage was clad in white silk and was lying in a cushion covered with a spotless white sheet spread over a wooden cot. His serene appearance suggested more of one in sleep than in death. A remarkable feature was the peace and calm prevailing in the Ashram. Among those who paid their homage to Sri Aurobindo today were India's Consul-General in Pondicherry, French India Ministers, French Indian officials and Aurobindo’s devotees from Madras and other parts of India. An Ashram spokesman said that Aurobindr had an attack of uraemia. The funeral will take place on Wednesday. His body will be placed in a coffin at 12 noon and will be interred in the main courtyard of the Ashram at 5 p.m. The Congress Working Committee at its meeting in Delhi yesterday adopted a condolence resolution on Sri Aurobindo’s death. The resolution described him as a pioneer in the struggle for India’s freedom and one of the greatest thinkers of the country.WHO can write about a man whose life has been more a communion with God than with man? "No one," Sri Aurobindo once wrote to his devoted disciple, Dilip Kumar, "can write about my life because it has not been on the surface for man to see." And yet one must .gather together the little bits of information available about him, and read the heart-beats of the great spirit in them. Parentage In the district of Hooghly-that cradle of Indian renaissance, and the birthplace of Raja Ram Mohan Roy and Ramakrishna-was born, in a reputed Ghosh family of Konnager, Sri Krishnadhan, the father of Sri Aurobindo. While still a medico in Calcutta he married Swaralata of a noted Brahmo family. Krishnadhan went to England and returned an M.D., full of honours and plans for the future. A confirmed Westerner now, he wished India could transform herself overnight into another England. But "though perilously poised on the bleak slopes of agnosticism his innate humanity was as potent as ever." Refusing to perform penance for going abroad in contravention of the caste rules, he sold his property for a song and left Konnagar for good, moving from place to place as Government Civil Surgeon. Being, however, also a great admirer of Bankim, he was popular with Bengali society no less than with European. Childhood Aurobindo was born at about 5 a.m. in Calcutta on August 15. 1872. The completely Westernized Dr Krishnadhan sent five-year-old Aurobindo along with his two elder brothers to the Loretto Convent School at Darjeeling. Here in the shadow of the snow-capped Himalayas he was brought up. But for his two brothers, the rest of the students were all English. Aurobindo passed the brief period of his life here somewhat like a “careless beam." Two years later, the fond parents took Aurobindo and his two brothers to England and entrusted them to the Drewetts in Manchester, in order to keep them away from "oriental ways and ideas." The Drewetts grounded him well in Latin. In their garden he played cricket, though quite badly. In 1885, when the Drewetts left for Australia, Aurobindo was put to St. Paul s. London. The head-master impressed by the boy's intelligence and character, taught him Greek and then promoted him to a higher class in the school. Here he spent much of his time reading English poetry, French literature and European History. In 1880, having acquired proficiency in the classics, he proceeded to King's College. Cambridge, with a Senior Classical Scholarship. Here he was able to win all the prizes in one year for Greek and Latin verse, and passed the first part of the Classical Tripos examination in first class. He, however, did not care to apply for the B.A. degree. Aurobindo's early adventures in English verse had a Keatsian ring. The result, however, is '' invariably good verse and not seldom true poetry." In 1890, he passed the I.C.S. examination, scoring record marks in Greek and Latin. But he asked himself: "Is service to be the be-all and end-all of my life?" It helped him to get himself disqualified for riding. While at Cambridge, he made himself familiar with some other continental languages too. During the 14 years of his stay in England, he had been divorced from the culture of India. He, however, wanted a suitable job. James Cotton introduced him to the Maharaja of Baroda who drafted him into the Baroda State service. He left England with no regrets. Baroda was to be a stepping stone to the wider Indian scene. So he bade adieu to Europe and to her many-chamber culture and thought. Home-Return Before he arrived in India, the stout hearted Krishnadhan di ed of heart-failure on receiving wrong news of the ship-wreck of the steamer carrying Aurobindo home. The afflicted son proceeded to Baroda. He was appointed first in the Revenue and Stamps Department. Later, he became Vice-Principal of the Baroda College. Occasionally the Maharaja would send for him for writing for him important letters or for drafting his speeches. During the Maharaja’s Kashmir tour Aurobindo acted as his Private Secretary, though he was hardly an ideal servant for an Indian prince. In the earlier years of his stay in Baroda, he was not attracted to Metaphysics. He found the disputes of dialectical ratiocination "too abstract, abstruse and inconclusive." Only such philosophical ideas as could be made dynamic for purposes of life, interested him. He was initiated in spirituality by the sayings and writings of Ramakrishna and Vivekananda. But he would not practise Yoga. While still in England, he had some spiritual experiences. In India their frequency and intensity grew. But still he did not take to Yoga. It seemed to him a retreat from life. After marriage with Mrinalini Dev, he seemed to have settled down to normal householder’s life. He read incessantly, he pondered over what he read, and he often spent the live-long hours writing poems and essays which bore the mark of future distinction. His students (amongst them Mr K. M. Munshi) admired and loved him. All was not well with the younger generation. The state of affairs made him thoughtful-and sad. Reviewing the political situation in the country, he contributed a series of articles to Indu Prakash under the challenging caption. "New Lamps for Old." ....He felt that while our civilians were "badly educated hyena, devoid of culture, in instruction poor.......unmanly, uncultivated, unintelligent.' we as a nation were laying ' the foundations of social collapse like the British and of political incompetence like the French." Regretting that the Congress was swearing by false gods of British make, he declared: "The walls of Anglo-Indian Jericho stand yet without a breach and the dark spectacle of penury draws her robe over the land in greater volume and with an anger sweep.'......With a rare foresight and proper understanding of the Indian problem he felt it futile to appeal to the sense of justice of the British. For "our actual enemy is not any force exterior to ourselves, but our own crying weakness, our cowardice, our purblind sentimentalism." He would, therefore, appeal only to our reviving sense of manhood, to our own sincere fellow-feeling with the silent and suffering people of India.All this was too much for the stalwarts of the der. Even the great ranade warned the proprietor of Indu Prakas against the possibility of prosecution for sedition. Aurooindo withdrew into his own solitary cell, and decided to come out only at a more opportune time Light Through Yoga Sri Aurobindo was fast re-Indianizing himself. He was already a convinced follower of the Sanatan Dbarm. On the occasion of his wedding he observed the age-old Vedic rites. Hi decided to seek Light through Yoga. With Teufelsdrockh he realised that "Thought without reverence is barren, perhaps po sonous " He learnt Gujrati, Marathi, Bengali and Sanskrit. Sanskrit and Bengal literature simply thrilled him. Of Macihusudan's poetry be wrote: No human hands such notes ambrosial movedRather the god was voiceful in their birth And of his hero Bankim, he wrote: Thus moving in these iron times and drear Barren of bliss and robbed of golden cheerHe sowed the desert with ruddy-hearted roseThe sweetest voice that ever spoke m proseIn The Haunts Of Muses His Bengali and Sanskrit studies enabled him to revel in the raptures of Chandidas, Bhartrihari and Kalidas. His translations of the numerous works of these ancient Masters are "finished exercises in verse " and acquired a new name m the realm of English letters. During years of political activity he wrote two deeply patriotic poems inspired by his growing philosophical preoccupations. ' Baji Probhu and (Word unreadable) are " historic in content but patriotic in tone, spirit and object.’What is truly remarkable in all these ems of Sri Aurobindo is "their amazingly flawless metrical craftsmanship." Pauses To Ponder The question of how man should conduct himself on the "scaffold of life" agitated his mind. The spectacle of India, "drunk with the wine of Western civilization," and painfully writhing under the new dispensation, saddened his sweet soul. Strange aspirations shook his being. He must spend the greater part of his earnings on Dharmakarya. He must see God. Mother India which mental, moral and spiritual force-Brahma Teja. Curzon in 1905 provided hint the occasion. He took indefinite leave and left for Calcutta to help the students who had boycotted Government educational institutions. The Bengal leaders founded the Bengal National College. On just one-fifth of the salary he was drawing at Baroda, he became the Principal of the College. With Bankim and Tagore shining resplendent in the firmament, a new vision of rejuvenated India captivated the hearts of young and old alike. Anonymously, Aurobindo began to contribute to Bande Mataram, which soon became the spearhead of the nationalist movement in Bengal. "From the tutor of a few youths" he became "the teacher of a whole nation." He breathed "into the sinister spectre of anarchy, the vitalizing influence of religion," wrote the Earl of Ronaldshay.  The Bande Matarom rocked Bengal. There was an outcry against it. He received information of a warrant of arrest against him. He surrendered himself to the police, but the Government dared not try him for sedition. Even the charge of violating the copyright of some paper failed. And the crestfallen Government, to cover up its defeat, sentenced a poor, illiterate printer to jail. Meanwhile, the puzzle had been solved. The nation soon learned about the authorship of the articles that had roused it so much. Even while he was on trial, distant Punjab and Maharashtra bowed their heads in reverence to " the great Redeemer." Through Alipore Crucible When in a stray bomb-throwing incident in Alipore an English lady was injured, the Government, which had been lying in wait for suitable opportunity, pounced upon Aurobindo as the moving spirit of the whole terrorist Bengal. Though the outrage was denounced in the Bande Materam as having " no sanction in our ancient tradition and culture......," he was charged with having waged war against the King. A whole nation stirred itself to defend him. It was then that the poet-patriot Das came forward to toil and sweat to save " the poet of patriotism, the prophet of nationalism and the lover of humanity " He predicted to the judge: " Long after he is dead and gone, his words will be echoed and re-echoed, not only in India, but across distant seas and lands......." For full one year the Alipore case dragged on. In jail Aurobindo experienced a spiritual rapture. In that solitary cell, 45 square feet wide, he sensed " the splendours of the Infinite." and learned to lose himself in the " vasts of God." In jail came the light. He said, ' World-existence is the ecstatic dance of Shiva which multiplies the body of the God numberlessly to the view." He now baffled "the Everlasting No and affirmed the Everlasting Yes" he had ceased to be a " traveller between life and death." and become instead "a Pilgrim of Eternity." Keeps The Torch Burning Though he was acquitted the repressive policy of the government continued in full blast. And Aurobindo reflected “That policy did not work out brilliantly in Russia and did to: save Russia from a Durna, the very thing that the Trepoffs and the rest of the ‘offs’ deprecated and detested." In his view " Repression is nothing but the hammer of God that is beating us into shape so that we any be moulded in to a mighty nation and an Instrument of His Work in the world., ..Without suffering there can be no growth ' And he asserted: - Our object, our claim is that we shall not perish as a nation but live as a nation. Are authority that goes against this object will be broken into pieces ." A new awakening came to him. He felt that mere politics need no longer hold him from the pursuits of the spirit. And so be penned his " Open better to My Countrymen." This he characterized as his "last will and testament to his countrymen." The wave of terrorism was fast rising. He suspended his political activities. The country was not yet ripe for struggle. For the vital fountains of its life was dried up. The country must therefore wait for the man who is to come to move forward triumphantly.The Ascent Into The EmpyreanQuietly he went to Chandernagore and as that was too near Calcutta, he later moved to Pondicherry. Where he sat became a temple and soon he found an ashram grow around him.The unimaginative and unchaivalrous government charged him with sedition on the ground of the the objectionable nature of his 'Open Letter" penned eight months earlier. The High Court, however, held that it was not seditious. Unmoved through all this storm he lived here the even tenor of the sadhak's life ' The Arya" The Ashrama started the Arya, an English journal under the able and devout management of the “mother”  and Paul Richard to make a systematic study of the highest problems of life and form a vast synthesis of knowledge. The journal w-as named "Arya " not out of a sense of superiority of his own race but because  “Arya means an effort or an uprising. The Arya is he who strives.... Self-perfection is the aim of his self conquest. " And the completed Arya." Although consenting here to a mortal body He is the undying; limit and bond he knows not; For him the aeons are a playground.Life and its deeds are his splendid shadows." It was in The Arya that the most significant works of Aurobindo appeared serially-" A Defence of Indian Culture," " The Renaissance in India," " Isha Opanshid," " The Secret of the Vedas," " Essays on Gita," " The Life Divine," " The Synthesis of Yoga." and "'the Psychology of Social Development," When C. R Das invited him back to politics. Aurobindo said: " Man can never get out of the futile circle the race is always treading, until he has raised himself on to a new foundation.. . . . The true basis of work and life is the spiritual. I am determined not to work in the external world till I have the sure and complete possession of this new power of action not to build except on a perfect foundation....I may also say that I did not leave polities because li felt I could not do anything any more there. Such an idea was very far from me. I came away because I got a very I distinct adesh in the matter. I have cut connection entirely with politis.” To those who regretted his loss to politics he answered: “as imperative and take precedence over all other claims, intellectual, ethical, social that belong to the domain of ignorance....Nothing can be sufficient substitute for the spiritual change that can realize the true and integral good because through the spirit we come to the root of action and existence." In a similar vein he wrote to Romain Rolland: “India possesses in her past, a little rusty and out of use, the key to the progress of humanity. It is to this that I am turning my energies, rather than towards mediocre politics. I believe in the necessity of Tapasya, in silence for education and self-knowledge and for unloosing of spiritual energies." The Rishi Sri Aurobindo travelled far afield indeed, but only along the same road, and always towards the same goal. The urge towards self-revelation and self-fulfilment had taken him progressively from literature to nationalism, dharma and spiritual self-evolution. Rightly did Romain Rolland describe him as “ the completest synthesis that has been realized to this day of the genius of Asia and the genius of Europe." Rabindranath Tagore's testimony ran thus: " At the very first sight I could realize that he had been seeking for the soul and had gained it, and through this long process of realization had accumulated within him a silent power of inspiration....I felt that the utterance of the ancient Hindu Rishi spoke from him of that equanimity which gives the human soul its freedom of entrance into the All." GOVT. OFFICES CLOSED The West Bengal Government in a Press note has expressed its deep regret at the sad news -af the passing away of Sri Aurobindo and as a mark of respect to the memory of the departed saint all institutions under the Government of West Bengal remained closed yesterday. This has the concurrence of the High Court.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/ht-this-day-december-6-1950-sri-aurobindo-ghosh-passes-101638727805457.html
05-12-2021||India||Port town of Paradip sees cloudburst as Cyclone Jawad brushes Odisha coast||Slums in the port town of Paradip in Odisha’s Jagatsinghpur district on Monday saw waterlogging for hours together as a cloudburst almost threatened to inundate the town totally after the depression over the Bay of Bengal moved closer to the Odisha coast on Sunday afternoon.Cyclonic storm Jawad which threatened to hit the Odisha coast at Puri, weakened to a depression on Sunday afternoon before approaching the coast, but did not make landfall. Originally estimated to bring wind blowing at 90-100 kmph, the actual wind speed was less than half of it by Sunday afternoon. It then moved north-eastwards with a speed of 25 kmph and lay centred about 30 km southeast of Paradip over northwest Bay of Bengal by 5.30 pm. Moving in a north-north-eastwards direction, it will weaken further by Sunday midnight along the West Bengal coast.Though the system weakened, it led to a sudden downpour in Paradip. IMD officials said Paradip saw 109 mm of rain between 2.30 pm and 3,30 pm after the associated cyclonic circulation over the Bay of Bengal led to intense rainfall triggered by huge difference of wind shear between upper and lower level of the atmosphere.“The clouds took a tornadic structure due to the atmospheric system. Nowhere in Odisha has cloudburst occurred in the last 5 years,” said Uma Shankar Das, senior scientist at the Regional Meteorological Centre, Bhubaneswar. The city witnessed a total of 201 mm of rainfall since 8.30 am on Sunday, the highest in Odisha. A social media user from Paradip said the town suddenly became dark. “The town became almost dark like night. Heavy downpour...” tweeted a person from Paradip.Cloudbursts are short-duration, intense rainfall events over a small area and as per IMD when the amount of rainfall in a particular region exceeds 100 millimetres per hour, it is called cloudburst. As per IMD, only 30 such incidents have been recorded in India between 1970 and 2016. Cloudbursts generally occur in mountainous and desert regions, but are also experienced over continental landmasses due to strong vertical velocity with a continuous flow of moisture from nearby water bodies.Paradip Port Trust officials said no damage was caused to the port infrastructure and cleaning of choked drains is going on. Trees and branches have been cleared from the roads to make way for traffic, said a port official. There was no report of any casualties from the town due to the cloudburst.Coastal regions experienced heavy rainfall during the last 24 hours. According to the IMD, the highest amount of rainfall of 158 mm was recorded in Khallikote in Ganjam district during the last 24 hours (till 8:30 am Sunday). Similarly, 107.5 mm rainfall was reported from Nayagarh and 86 mm in Chhatrapur.Director, Bhubaneswar Meteorological Centre, HR Biswas said the rainfall activity will continue in Odisha during the next 24 hours as the deep depression moved along the Odisha coast. “The squally weather will continue with gusty winds along the coastal region. So, the warning for fishermen and Port warning will remain in force till Monday. There are chances that some flights from and to Bhubaneswar might be regulated depending on the impact on visibility due to heavy rains,” Biswas said.In West Bengal, the state government stopped ferry services on the Hooghly River and urged tourists not to visit seaside resorts, as rain lashed Kolkata and other southern parts of the state on Sunday. “With the system likely to move north-north-eastwards along the Odisha coast towards West Bengal and develop into a well-marked low pressure area, light to moderate rainfall has begun in Kolkata, Howrah, North and South 24 Parganas, and Purba and Paschim Medinipur districts,” an official said.Heavy rain will occur in some isolated parts of south Bengal, including coastal areas of South 24 Parganas and Purba Medinipur districts, and parts of Purba Bardhhaman, he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/port-town-of-paradip-sees-cloudburst-as-cyclone-jawad-brushes-odisha-coast-101638722734286.html
05-12-2021||India||Nagaland civilian deaths: Govt forms SIT to probe firing||The Nagaland government on Sunday formed a Special Investigation Team (SIT) to probe into the firing incident that took place on Saturday evening in Mon district leaving 13 civilians and jawan dead. An order in this regard was issued by the state home department and signed by chief secretary J Alam. The five-member SIT will be headed by inspector general of police, Nagaland, officials said.Tension continued to prevail in the area over three consecutive incidents of firing, the first of which was possibly a case of mistaken identity.Preliminary reports suggested the first firing led to the death of six civilians that occurred when the Army personnel mistook coal mine workers returning home in a pick-up van singing songs on Saturday evening, to be insurgents belonging to the Yung Aung faction of the banned outfit NSCN (K), about whose movements they had been tipped off.Also read | Nagaland civilian killings: After Rahul Gandhi, Mamata tweets about justiceAs workers failed to reach their homes, local youth and villagers went in search of them and surrounded the army vehicles.In the ensuing melee, a soldier was killed and Army vehicles were burnt down. Soldiers who fired in self-defence killed another seven civilians, said police officers.Rioting spilled over into Sunday afternoon when mobs vandalised the offices of the Konyak Union and an Assam Rifles camp in the area, setting fire to parts of the camp.At least one more person was killed and another two injured, as security forces fired back at attackers. The mob has been demanding immediate action against security force personnel involved in the firing.The Nagaland government through a notification has banned mobile, internet and data services as well as bulk SMS in the district to curb "circulation of inflammatory videos, pictures or text".Videos of a mob vandalising the Konyak Union office in Mon and the Assam Rifles camp are however circulating on social media despite the ban on internet services in the district.Chief minister Neiphiu Rio who rushed back from Delhi on Sunday will visit the affected district on Monday. Police said the post-mortem of those killed is being conducted in Mon and feared that the number of fatalities may increase as at least two of those injured were critical and had to be evacuated to hospitals in Assam while the rest were being treated in Nagaland.Ordering a Court of Inquiry into the incident, the Army said one of its personnel was killed and several others were seriously injured. It said the incident and its aftermath is "deeply regretted" and the unfortunate loss of lives is being investigated at the highest level.(With inputs from agencies)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/nagaland-civilian-deaths-govt-forms-sit-to-probe-firing-101638720973999.html
05-12-2021||India||Rajasthan reports nine cases of Omicron variant; tally surpasses 20 across India||Omicron cases rose across the country on Sunday as nine more people were detected with the variant of the viral infection in Rajasthan’s Jaipur. With the recent detection of cases, the national tally crossed 20. Earlier in the day, Maharashtra detected seven more cases of the Omicron variant. Maharashtra and Jaipur both have nine confirmed cases of Omicron variant.Four among the nine infected by the Omicron variant in Jaipur are returnees from South Africa. They were admitted to the Rajasthan University of Health Sciences - a dedicated Covid-19 facility. Officials said that the other five who were infected are being admitted, according to a report by HT. State health secretary Vaibhav Galaria said that contact tracing is on and many people who came in contact with the infected were also tested. He said that samples were collected from 34 people who came in contact with them and 25 of them were negative.Earlier, one case of Omicron variant was detected in Delhi. The first two cases were detected in Karnataka following which cases were reported from Maharashtra and Gujarat.A report from HT said that the patient from Maharashtra was responding well to the treatment.Maharashtra’s cases on Sunday were reported from Pune district, six are from Pimpri Chinchwad Municipal Corporation (PCMC) and one each from Pune city and rural parts of the district.Three among the six patients from the PCMC area recently visited Nigeria’s Lagos and are from the same family. Another man recently traveled to Finland.Surge in cases due to the Omicron variant across Europe and parts of Africa have led to travel bans and economic uncertainty across economies. The variant was first reported from South Africa, Botswana and other neighbouring nations in that region. The first case of B.1.1.529 infection was reported from South Africa on November 25.(with inputs from Sachin Saini)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/rajasthan-reports-nine-cases-of-omicron-variant-tally-surpasses-20-across-india-101638719402611.html
05-12-2021||India||ED summons 4 Bengal businessmen held earlier by CBI in coal smuggling case||The Enforcement Directorate (ED) has summoned to Delhi the four businessmen who were arrested by the Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI) two months ago in the Bengal coal smuggling case, officials aware of the development said. The suspects, Joydeb Mondal, Narayan Nanda, Nirad Mondal and Gurupada Majhi were arrested on September 27 from West Burdwan and Bankura districts. They were recently released on bail from judicial custody. Although the ED had earlier arrested three people, including a state police inspector, the CBI, which is conducting a parallel investigation, did not arrest anyone in the coal smuggling case before September 27, almost ten months after starting the probe. ED officials said the four have been asked to appear for questioning at the agency’s office in Delhi next week. The CBI suspects that they ran the operation on behalf of Anup Majhi alias Lala, the racket’s alleged kingpin named in the first information report (FIR) the agency registered in November 2020. Majhi, was however, granted immunity from arrest by the Supreme Court. He has appealed for extension of the court order. According to the CBI, illegally mined coal worth several thousand crores of rupees have been sold in the black market over several years by a racket operating in the western parts of Bengal where the Eastern Coalfields Limited (ECL) runs a number of mines. “The four businessmen are suspected to have played a crucial role in transporting this coal to different parts of Bengal as well as adjacent states. They allegedly sent the sale proceeds to some influential people,” an ED official said on condition of anonymity. A senior West Bengal police officer, who did not want to be identified, said that among the four, Joydep Mondal was held on multiple charges even during the Left Front regime that ended when the Trinamool Congress (TMC) came to power in 2011. The CBI and ED have questioned some Indian Police Service (IPS) officers posted in Bengal as well as a number of ECL officials. The ED summoned IPS officers, Shyam Singh, Gyanwant Singh and S Selvamurugan to Delhi in September. The coal smuggling case is a raging political issue in Bengal. On September 6, TMC national general secretary and chief minister Mamata Banerjee’s nephew, Abhishek Banerjee, was questioned by the ED in Delhi for almost nine hours. He was summoned for the second time on September 8 but Banerjee told the agency that he was unable to travel from Kolkata at such short notice. He was subsequently summoned on September 21. Before summoning Banerjee, the ED wanted to question his wife, Rujira Banerjee, in the first week of September. She however did not go to the ED’s office in Delhi saying travelling during the Covid pandemic would be risky for a mother of two infants. Rujira Banerjee was first questioned by the CBI in February. The CBI team visited Abhishek Banerjee’s residence. In March, the CBI also questioned Rujira’s sister Maneka Gambhir and the latter’s husband Ankush Arora and father-in-law Pawan Arora. Among the prime suspects in this case is former TMC youth front general secretary and businessman Vinay Mishra who renounced his Indian citizenship in December and became a citizen of Vanuatu, a small island country in the southwest Pacific. The agencies have sealed his assets in Kolkata and arrested his brother, Vikash. Incidentally, Abhishek Banerjee, a Lok Sabha member, will also be in Delhi next week to hold a meeting with the TMC’s Parliament members. Before facing the ED on September 6, Banerjee threw a challenge at the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) saying using probe agencies against TMC leaders will not help the saffron camp gain any political ground in Bengal. “TMC will never bow before you (BJP). Do whatever you can. If the ED has any evidence against me, make it public. If anybody can prove that I have accepted even ten paisa from anyone I will voluntarily walk to the gallows and hang myself,” Banerjee had said before reaching the ED office.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/ed-summons-4-bengal-businessmen-held-earlier-by-cbi-in-coal-smuggling-case-101638718293796.html
05-12-2021||India||News updates from HT: Mamata not considering political entry into Maharashtra, says Sena and all the latest news||Here are today’s top news, analysis, and opinion at 9pm. Know all about the latest news and other news updates from Hindustan Times.Mamata not considering a political foray into Maharashtra: Shiv SenaStirring the political pot, Shiv Sena MP Sanjay Raut has said that TMC president and West Bengal chief minister Mamata Banerjee seems to be looking at creating an anti- BJP front while excluding the Congress from it. Read moreIndia’s dark story: The link between caste and manual scavenging (HT editorial)Last week, the government confirmed another facet of this practice — an overwhelming number of manual scavengers are Dalits: 97% of those identified in surveys were from Scheduled Castes. Read moreNow, Arvind Kejriwal questions Charanjit Channi on visit to 'different' mining siteDelhi chief minister Arvind Kejriwal on Sunday continued his ongoing war of words with Punjab counterpart Charanjit Singh Channi, describing the latter’s visit to a mining site as that to a ‘different’ mining site. Read more'We see that attitude missing in Indian pacers': Ex-Pak skipper lauds India fast bowler; explains how he is 'different'Siraj's impressive bowling has also drawn an admirer from Pakistan as their former captain Salman Butt lauded the pacer, insisting that he has an “impactful” presence on the field. Read moreVivek Oberoi on Bollywood: 'An exclusive club where surname or which lobby you do salaam at, matters more than talent'In a new interview with Hindustan Times, Vivek Oberoi shares his thoughts on the way the film industry works, and how he is changing the hierarchal set-up with his 'humble' efforts. Read more5 surprising reasons behind your sudden hair lossWhile the most common cause of hair loss is a hereditary condition called androgenic alopecia which comes with ageing, there could be many other common reasons behind your rapidly thinning hairline. Read more||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/news-updates-from-ht-mamata-not-considering-political-entry-into-maharashtra-says-sena-and-all-the-latest-news-101638714339976.html
05-12-2021||India||Russian traveller tests positive for Covid-19 in Kerala, samples sent to NIV||Amid the threat of the new virus variant, Omicron, a Russian traveller who reached the port city Kochi on Saturday tested positive for Covid-19 and his samples were sent to the National Institute of Virology (NIV) in Pune. The union government also sent another letter to the state asking it to ramp up its containment strategies. With this, samples of five persons were sent to the NIV to rule out the possibility of the new variant, a senior health ministry official said. Union health secretary Rajesh Bhushan sent another letter to the state on Saturday asking it to take strict measures to contain high caseload and death rate. In the letter, he pointed out that 13 out of 14 districts in the state still report a high quantum of cases.In the letter addressed to state health secretary Rajan Khobragade, Bhushan said in four districts (Thiruvananthapuram, Ernakulam, Kozhikode and Thrissur) the average test positivity rate was more than 10 per cent. He reiterated the need for better compliance with the test, track and treat measures to bring down the infection rate.On Sunday, the state reported 4450 cases and 23 deaths but 138 backlog deaths were added to the bulging list as the death toll rose to 41,600, according to the state health ministry. In fatality rate, Kerala is second after Maharashtra now. The state has administered the first dose of vaccine to 96.5 per cent of the eligible population and the second dose to 67.6 per cent, it said.The low death rate has been one of the USPs of Kerala during the pandemic and its leaders often boasted of it but mounting addition of backlog dented its tall claims, statistics show. In the last two months, at least 5000 backlog cases - deaths that took place between March 2020 and June 2021 - were added to the fatality list. Many public health experts and opposition parties alleged that the government was not transparent with its data but the latter said technical issues led to the omission.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/russian-traveller-tests-positive-for-covid-19-in-kerala-samples-sent-to-niv-101638717335024.html
05-12-2021||India||IIT-Madras faculty founded at least 94 startups valued at ₹1,400 crore: Report||From a startup aiming to make hybrid aerial vehicles to the ones working on converting waste to crude oil and efficient water transport solutions, faculty members at the Indian Institute of Technology (IIT), Madras founded at least 94 enterprises having a combined valuation of over ₹1,400 crore.According to officials, the IIT faculty members have founded, mentored or advised over 240 startups in the past decade which today have a combined valuation of ₹11,500 crore.The number of companies directly founded by IIT-Madras faculty members stood at 94 in October this year. These have a combined valuation in excess of ₹1,400 crore, based on investment raised by these startups from angel investors or venture capital firms.According to data shared by the IIT Madras Incubation Cell (IITMIC), the number of faculty-founded startups rose sharply from 37 in April 2017 to 69 in June 2019 and 80 in 2020 before touching 94 by October 2021. These startups were incubated by the IIT Madras Incubation Cell, one of India's leading deep technology startup hub.As many as 77 faculty members from various departments of the institute were involved in setting up startups. This figure is nearly 13 per cent of the total institute faculty strength of around 600, which is considered on par with the best universities in the world, the IITMIC claimed.A startup is aiming to make a new breed of aircraft called hybrid aerial vehicles for vertical takeoff and landing as well as long-distance flight to carry goods and passengers, ultimately leading to air taxi operations.Another working on mini launch vehicles to launch micro- and nano-satellites into space orbits.A startup aiming to produce micro gas turbines for decentralized power generation and another aiming to convert any kind of waste -- from municipal solid waste to agri waste -- into crude oil are among the notable ones.Another enterprise aims to make earth observation satellites with multi-sensor fusion and edge-computing in space.Tamaswati Ghosh, Chief Executive Officer, IIT Madras Incubation Cell, said, "over 12 per cent of institute faculty are co-founders in our incubated startups working across a breadth of globally critical domains. This underlines our ability to translate cutting-edge scientific innovations to the field."The highest numbers of associated startups or spin-outs are from the Departments of Electrical, Mechanical and Civil Engineering, followed by Aeronautics and Applied Mechanics."Several faculty members are involved in more than one startup either as a founder or mentor," Ghosh said.These startups work primarily in deep technology areas, ranging from manufacturing, robotics, energy and renewables, e-mobility, space tech, Internet of Things, data sciences, biotechnology, healthcare, water treatment, waste to energy and waste management, and e-mobility, electric Vehicles, among other areas."Setting up a deep tech startup is a hard task, and the gestation time from idea to reaching the market can be as much as 4-5 years. Even getting from the Lab (post research stage) to an incubator can take 2-3 years. There is a 'valley of death' that a startup faces between the lab and the incubator and first investor. Most academicians find it difficult to make the jump from the lab to the incubator," said Raghuttama Rao, Chief Executive Officer, Gopalakrishnan-Deshpande Centre for Innovation and Entrepreneurship (GDC).||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/iitmadras-faculty-founded-at-least-94-startups-valued-at-rs-1-400-crore-report-101638716391816.html
05-12-2021||India||NTAGI to consider giving 'additional' dose of Covid vaccine to immunocompromised||The issue of administering 'additional' dose of COVID-19 vaccine to immunocompromised individuals will be deliberated upon in the meeting of the National Technical Advisory Group on Immunisation scheduled to be held on December 6, official sources said.According to officials, an additional dose of vaccine is different from a booster dose.A booster dose is given to an individual after a predefined period when the immune response due to primary vaccination is presumed to have declined, while additional dose is given to immunocompromised and immunosuppressed individuals when primary schedule of vaccination does not provide adequate protection from the infection and disease, they explained.Recently, the Serum Institute of India (SII) sought from the drug regulator an approval for Covishield as a booster dose against the novel coronavirus infection.In an application to the Drugs Controller General of India (DCGI), Prakash Kumar Singh, Director, Government and Regulatory Affairs at SII, said UK-MHRA has already approved the booster dose for AstraZeneca ChAdOx1 nCoV-19 vaccine, while citing there is no shortage of Covishield in India and that there is a demand for booster dose from those who have already taken two doses in view of the ongoing pandemic and emergence of new strains.In its bulletin dated November 29, the Indian SARS-CoV-2 Consortium on Genomics (INSACOG) recommended booster dose of COVID-19 vaccines for those above 40 years with preference to high-risk and high-exposure population.However, on Saturday it said its recommendation was not for the national immunisation programme as many more scientific experiments are required to assess its impact.Regarding the administration of booster doses, Union Health Minister Mansukh Mandaviya had recently informed the Lok Sabha that the National Technical Advisory Group on Immunization (NTAGI) and the National Expert Group on Vaccine Administration for COVID-19 (NEGVAC) were deliberating and considering scientific evidences related to this aspect."For now the issue of booster dose is not on the agenda as studies are being conducted to ascertain its need and value."The issue of administering additional dose of COVID-19 to immunocompromised and immunosuppressed individuals will be deliberated upon in the meeting of NTAGI which will be held on December 6," an official source said.Basically, cancer patients on therapy, transplants patients, AIDS patients, among others, fall in such categories and need additional dose (third dose) vaccine to improve their protection.Even amid emergence of new variants like Omircron, vaccination remains one of the strongest pillars of protection against disease and infection, experts said.While there is no evidence to suggest that existing vaccines do not work on the Omicron variant of SARS-CoV-2, some of the mutations reported may decrease the efficacy of the jabs, the Union health ministry said while underscoring definitive evidence for the new variant's increased remission and immune evasion, is awaited."While, there is no evidence to suggest that existing vaccines do not work on Omicron, some of the mutations reported on Spike gene may decrease the efficacy of existing vaccines."However, vaccine protection is also by antibodies as well as by cellular immunity, which is expected to be relatively better preserved. Hence, vaccines are expected to still offer protection against severe disease and, vaccination with the available vaccines is crucial. If eligible, but not vaccinated, one should get vaccinated," the ministry said in a list of frequently asked questions (FAQs).It is important to highlight that Omicron has been declared ‘variant of concern’ (VoC) based on the observed mutations, their predicted features of increased transmission and immune evasion, and preliminary evidence of detrimental change in COVID-19 epidemiology, such as increased reinfections.The definitive evidence for increased remission and immune evasion is awaited, according to the WHO.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/ntagi-to-consider-giving-additional-dose-of-covid-vaccine-to-immunocompromised-101638715862868.html
05-12-2021||India||Six die as car catches fire in Andhra's Chittoor, infant among victims: Report||At least six persons died in a road accident on the Puthalapattu-Naidupeta road near Chandragiri zone, Chittoor, after the car they were traveling in caught fire due to an oil leak. The speeding car had taken a sudden turn and hit a divider before catching fire.Chandragiri inspector BV Srinivas said eight people were present in the car of whom five died on the spot. Among the three persons who were rushed to Ruia Hospital, one more succumbed to injuries, the inspector added.Andhra Pradesh | 6 people died in a road accident on the Puthalapattu-Naidupeta road near Chandragiri zone, Chittoor; car caught fire due to oil leak8 people were present in the car; 5 died on the spot & 3 were rushed to Ruia Hospital, where 1 more died: Inspector BV Srinivas pic.twitter.com/ei7p5ORBKs"A total of eight persons were travelling in the car from Chittoor district. The speeding car took a turn and hit a divider. Due to an oil leak, the car caught fire at Aitepalli in Chandragiri zone on the Puthalpattu-Naidupet road. Five people were caught in the blaze and died on the spot. Three others were rushed to Ruia Hospital in Tirupati with serious injuries. Another person died in the hospital," Srinivas was quoted as saying by news agency ANI.According to Telugu daily Sakshi, an infant was among the deceased. The accident happened when the group was returning from a visit to Kanipakam temple near Chittoor. An investigation was underway.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/six-die-as-car-catches-fire-in-andhra-s-chittoor-infant-among-victims-report-101638714477441.html
05-12-2021||India||Tussle over AIADMK leadership mars Jaya's death anniversary event||Claims over leadership became the focal point at the former AIADMK supremo J Jayalalithaa's death anniversary event held here on Sunday with the main opposition party in Tamil Nadu, led by O Panneerselvam and K Palaniswami, asserting that it is a 'fortress' that cannot be shaken by anyone. While V K Sasikala's supporters hailed her as the 'political heir' of Jayalalithaa and 'AIADMK's general secretary,' her nephew TTV Dhinakaran-led Amma Makkal Munnetra Kazhagam (AMMK) vowed to democratically retrieve the AIADMK. The fifth death anniversary event of the former Tamil Nadu Chief Minister witnessed tense moments for a while when supporters of Dhinakaran allegedly tried to gherao senior AIADMK leaders including K Palaniswami on the arterial Kamarajar Salai while they exited the Marina beachfront memorial premises of Jayalalithaa in their vehicles. Also, a scuffle broke out between loyalists of Dhinakaran and AIADMK cadres who raised slogans and counter-slogans while policemen whisked away some of them from the spot. Led by top leaders O Panneeerselvam and K Palaniswami, the AIADMK workers, who thronged Jayalalithaa's memorial, pledged to not allow "enemies to win through divide and rule conspiracies." No one was, however, explicitly named by the AIADMK in its pledge, that was read out by Panneerselvam, while others followed him. The AIADMK is a fortress that cannot be shaken by anyone, howsoever mighty and vowed to be united and protect the party, it said. The pledge event led by Sasikala at the memorial exhorted cadres to rally behind her and get united under her leadership so that the AIADMK could capture power again in the state. The oath, that was read out, hailed Sasikala as the AIADMK's "general secretary, the revolutionary mother, Chinnamma (younger mother)," and underscored that it was essential to join hands for the party to win future elections and trounce political opponents. To usher in the AIADMK regime, "let us join hands under her leadership and let us emerge victorious." The pledge ceremony, presided by AMMK general secretary Dhinakaran, apparently targeted the AIADMK leadership. The AMMK pledge said the 'selfishness' of a few people, has caused the movement, a reference to the AIADMK, losing its uniqueness and identity as well and vowed to retrieve the parent party through the 'democratic weapon' which is the outfit run by him. The 'selfishness' jibe is obviously aimed at Panneerselvam and Palaniswami and their supporters, though they were not named. The Dhinakaran led outfit also slammed the DMK as an 'evil force' and accused it of double standards in many issues including the Mullaiperiyar and NEET. The AMMK said it is marching ahead under the leadership of Dhinakaran with the wishes of 'Thiyaga Thalaivi (Leader of sacrifices) Chinnamma.' Jayalalithaa is hailed as Amma by her followers. The pledge taking ceremony by both the AIADMK and Dhinkaran-led outfit on the Jayalalithaa memorial premises targeted the ruling DMK. While the AIADMK alleged that the DMK won the recent rural civic polls through 'several conspiracies' and 'power,' the principal opposition also hit out at the TN's ruling party for trying to overwhelm them by foisting many false cases. Hailing the previous AIADMK governments steered by Jayalalithaa for its several initiatives, it slammed the DMK government for 'family rule' and vowed to "tear up the web of conspiracy to destroy the party." At Jayalalithaa's mausoleum, which is part of a larger, state of the art phoenix model memorial dedicated to the former Chief Minister's memory on the Marina beachfront, Pannneerselvam, Palaniswami and other AIADMK leaders, many of them in black shirts, were the first to lay wreaths and pay homage followed by Sasikala, Dhinakaran and a string of others. Sasikala looked teary when she placed the wreath while her supporters hailed her as 'Chinnamma.' Besides leaders, many ordinary workers, many of them women could be spotted at the memorial site. Jayalalithaa died on December 5, 2016. On the anniversary occasion, AIADMK workers paid floral tributes to her portraits across Tamil Nadu and distributed welfare assistance to beneficiaries and some organised community meal programmes.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/tussle-over-aiadmk-leadership-mars-jaya-s-death-anniversary-event-101638713502278.html
05-12-2021||India||Now, Arvind Kejriwal questions Charanjit Channi on visit to 'different' mining site||Delhi chief minister Arvind Kejriwal on Sunday continued his ongoing war of words with Punjab counterpart Charanjit Singh Channi, describing the latter’s visit to a mining site as one to a ‘different’ mining site and not the one which Raghav Chadha, the Aam Aadmi Party’s (AAP) Punjab co-incharge on Saturday ‘exposed’ as illegal.Also Read | AAP alleges illegal sand mining in CM’s constituency Chamkaur Sahib“Is it true that Channi sahib went to a different mining site today and not the one visited by Raghav yesterday? And Channi sahib declared it as legal, whereas the one visited by Raghav is a different site and is illegal. How can a CM be sooo blatant?” the AAP’s national convenor tweeted. Is it true that Channi sahib went to a different mining site today n not the one visited by Raghav yesterday? And Channi sahib declared it as legal, whereas the one visited by Raghav is a different site and is illegal. How can a CM be sooo blatant?Kejriwal’s tweet came after the Punjab chief minister, earlier in the day, visited a mining site at the Sutlej River bed. Speaking to the media, the Congress leader declared that the Kejriwal-led party’s allegations were a ‘bundle of lies,’ adding that all the work at different sites was being done as per the norms.On Saturday, Chadha made a surprise visit to Jindapur village in Channi’s assembly constituency, Chamkaur Sahib, and alleged that the ruling party was ‘patronising’ the sand mafia. “After becoming CM, Channi said that the sand mafia should not come to him and that he was not the chief minister of the sand mafia. However, now, they are running their business under his protection and that too in his area,” the AAP leader said.Ahead of Punjab assembly elections, which are likely to take place early next year, a war of words has erupted between the Congress and the Aam Aadmi Party. In 2017, the latter regained power by winning 77 seats in the 117-member assembly, the latter finished as the second-largest party despite only being formed in 2012.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/now-arvind-kejriwal-questions-charanjit-channi-on-visit-to-mining-site-101638713165184.html
05-12-2021||India||Need for common platform for Public Accounts Committees, says LS Speaker Om Birla||Lok Sabha speaker Om Birla has stressed the need for a common platform for Public Accounts Committees (PAC), Parliament’s audit watchdogs in the House and state legislation for better coordination, at the valedictory session of the two-day centennial year celebrations of the PAC in Parliament House.“Shri Birla further suggested that parliamentary committees should directly interact with people and take inputs from them. The more they will interact with people, the more effective and meaningful their recommendations will be,” read the release issued by the Lok Sabha Secretariat.The Lok Sabha Speaker also suggested a committee of chairpersons for PAC who will hold comprehensive discussions on the working. The reports made by this committee could be discussed amongst the presiding officers for successful implementation. During these contemporary times, he also called for more use of information technology to ensure transparency in governance.Parliamentary committees have contributed significantly in making the government accountable and transparent to the people, Lok Sabha Speaker Om Birla said. “In a developing country like India, the constructive suggestions of PAC not only promoted the optimal use of financial resources, but also helped in improving the policies and programs of the government,” Birla added.He also hailed the tradition of non-partisan functioning of PACs, which should work as a collective endeavour towards the public. The interest of the nation should be supreme, said Om Birla.Rajya Sabha Deputy Chairperson Harivansh Narayan Singh and PAC Chairperson Adhir Ranjan Chowdhury, Union ministers, Members of Parliament and other presiding officers of the State legislative assembly attended the event at Parliament House.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/need-for-common-platform-for-public-accounts-committees-says-ls-speaker-om-birla-101638713673428.html
05-12-2021||India||Territorial tensions ‘sharpening’ across Asia following China’s rise: Jaishankar||Union external affairs minister S Jaishankar said on Sunday the influence of China’s rise is profound and its effects can be seen in the rising territorial tensions across Asia.Addressing the fifth Indian Ocean Conference -- IOC 2021 – in Abu Dhabi, Jaishankar said that Beijing’s actions were raising a question mark on the agreements of yesteryears. He said that in a globalised world it is vital to ensure freedom of navigation and overflight and unimpeded commerce are respected.“The consequences of China’s growing capabilities are particularly profound because of the extrapolation of its domestic seamlessness to the world outside. As a result, whether it is connectivity, technology or trade, there is now an ongoing debate on the changed nature of power and influence,” Jaishankar was quoted as saying by news agency PTI.“We have also seen a sharpening of tensions on territorial issues across the breadth of Asia. Agreements and understandings of yesteryears now seem to have some question marks. Time will, of course, provide answers,” he further added. Earlier this week at the Hindustan Times Leadership Summit, Jaishankar also highlighted a similar point with reference to the 2020 border clashes between Indian and Chinese forces at Eastern Ladakh. The Union minister said that two agreements with China which were not ambiguous stand violated despite the facts that the terms were laid out in ‘cold print’.“There were very, very clear-cut commitments not to mass forces on the border and those commitments stand violated as of 2020 spring,” Jaishankar said. “And as we have made clear: The state of the relationship, at the end of the day, will reflect the state of the border. You can’t have a tense, high friction border and have great relations in all other parts of life. It doesn’t work that way,” he explained further.The standoff between both forces began in June 2020 at the Line of Actual Control in Ladakh. At least 20 Indian soldiers and 4 Chinese troops died in the Galwan Valley clashes. The disengagements at all points have not ended and both sides have deployed at least 50,000 troops on either side of the border.Speaking of uncertainties in the Indian Ocean region, Jaishankar said that the US withdrawal from Afghanistan along with the Covid-19 pandemic have contributed to uncertainties.(With inputs from PTI)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/territorial-tensions-sharpening-across-asia-following-china-s-rise-jaishankar-101638711828384.html
05-12-2021||India||Rave party busted n Kerala, 20 detained||The Kerala Excise Department on Sunday busted a rave party in a resort in Poovar near Thiruvananthapuram, detained 20 people and seized narcotic substances and ecstasy pills, a senior excise official said.The official said the department got a tip-off from Bengaluru and officials approached the resort in the guise of participants and later detained them after they came to know that the party began on Saturday evening went on till Sunday morning. He said two main organisers of the event, Akshay Mohan and Peter Shan, were arrested while others detained will be booked after questioning them in detail.The party was held as a music festival named “Nirvana Music Festival” which was a two-day event. Participants were hooked to the party online and were sent entry tickets after ensuring their interest and background, he said. “We have seized cannabis oil, charas, ecstasy pills and MDMA,” he said, adding this is the first such rave party getting busted in the state capital.He said organisers chose the resort since it was situated on a small island and boats were needed to reach them and they thought nobody will notice them. Some of the participants, including women, were found intoxicated when the officials found them, the official said, adding that they have information that more than 50 people participated and some of them left in the morning. He said other details will be known after interrogation of detained people and a briefing on the matter will be held on Monday by senior officials.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/rave-party-busted-n-kerala-20-detained-101638711273853.html
05-12-2021||India||Omicron: 7 new cases detected in Maharashtra's Pune, India tally touches 12||As many as seven new samples in Maharashtra were found to be infected with the Omicront variant of Coronavirus disease on Sunday. With this, the total number of cases related to the new strain in the state touched eight, while the nationwide tally reached 12.Among those whose samples turned positive with the new variant were a 44-year old woman, who had come from Nigeria to Pimpri-Chinchwad near Pune, her two daughters, her brother and his two daughters. A 47-year old man, who had travelled to Finland last month, was also found to be positive with the new strain.Earlier, a health official in Pune said four persons who returned from foreign tours and three of their close contacts have test positive for Omicron variant.Also read | Why Omicron is likely to affect major Indian cities, ex-CSIR scientist explainsIn India, the first two cases of Omicron, that was first detected in South Africa, were reported in Karnataka. On Saturday, the third and the fourth case of the infection were reported from Gujarat's Jamnagar and Maharashtra's Dombivli, respectively.The fifth person to test positive for the variant was a Tanzania returnee in Delhi. According to the World Health Organisation (WHO), the first case of B.1.1.529 infection was reported from South Africa on November 25. This was from a specimen collected on November 9. Soon after, the global health body camed the strain as Omicron and classified it as a 'variant of concern'.Since then, dozens of countries have imposed travel restrictions on southern African nations even as the variant has been confirmed in 23 countries. WHO director-general Tedros Adhanom Ghebreyesus has said the numbers are likely to rise.Also read | Weakness, body ache: Common symptoms of 5 Omicron patients in IndiaIndia has also added several countries to the list from where travellers would need to follow additional measures on arrival in the country, including post-arrival testing for the infection.(With inputs from bureau and agencies)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/omicron-7-new-cases-detected-in-maharashtra-india-tally-touches-12-101638711127937.html
05-12-2021||India||Krishna Janmabhoomi-Shahi Eidgah issue: Mathura Police issue traffic advisory for December 6||The Mathura Police on Sunday issued a traffic advisory, a day ahead of a proposed march towards the Sri Krishna Janmabhoomi and the adjoining Shahi Eidgah by several right-wing organisations. Though the protests were later called off as authorities denied permission, the police, taking no chances, have put the city under a security blanket. Prohibitory measures were clamped also because December 6 will mark 29 years since the demolition of the Babri Mosque in Ayodhya. दिनांक 06 दिसम्बर, 2021 को मथुरा शहर की यातायात व्यवस्था निम्न प्रकार से रहेगी। pic.twitter.com/TEXiXXRrYT“On December 6, 2021, the traffic system in the Mathura city will be as follows,” a rough translation of the Mathura Police’s tweet, posted in Hindi, read.Also Read | Four booked in Mathura for objectionable social media postsHere’s what the advisory states:(1.) All Vrindavan-bound vehicles from Bhuteshwar intersection, Deeng Gate, Masani to proceed to their destination via Gokul Restaurant, Masani and Chhatikara. No vehicle allowed near Janmabhoomi/Deeng Gate.(2.) No heavy vehicle can enter the city from the Govardhan intersection.(3.) All vehicles bound from Masani to Bhuteshwar or Deeng Gate to use the Gokul Restaurant-Govardhan intersection route.(4.) No vehicular movement allowed from Bharatpur Gate to Deeng Gate.Prohibited routes: (1.) Dhauli Pyau to State Bank intersection (all four-wheelers/heavy vehicles)(2.) Tank intersection to State Bank intersection (four-wheelers/heavy vehicles)(3.) Krishnapuri (heavy vehicles)(4.) Gokul Barrage to Tank intersection (heavy vehicles)(5.) Gokul Restaurant to Masani (heavy vehicles)(6.) Vrindavan/Masani to Mathura city (all vehicles)(7.) Govardhan intersection to Bhuteshwar intersection (all vehicles)Diversions: (1.) Vehicles moving towards the Yamuna Expressway from Gokul Restaurant via Masani to use the Vahan township-Gokul Barrage-Lakshmi Nagar route(2.) Vehicles entering Mathura from the Yamuna Expressway from Vrindavan via Masani to use the Raya cut-Lakshmi nagar route.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/krishna-janmabhoomi-shahi-eidgah-issue-mathura-police-issue-traffic-advisory-for-december-6-101638705851122.html
05-12-2021||India||All bones broken, 99% body charred: Post-mortem report of lynched Lankan reveals gruesome details||Sri Lankan national Priyantha Kumara Diyawadana’s all bones were broken and 99% of his body was burnt following his gruesome lynching in Pakistan’s Punjab province, news agency Geo News reported citing his post-mortem report.The report outlined skull and jaw fractures as the cause of death of Diyawadana. Due to the attack, his vital organs, liver, stomach and one of his kidneys, were affected. Barring one foot, every part of his body sustained severe injuries. His spinal cord was also broken at three different points.Earlier on Friday, the supporters of hardline Islamist party Tehreek-e-Labbaik Pakistan (TLP) attacked a garment factory and lynched general manager of Rajko Industries Diyawadana and set his body on fire. Several among the irate mob also clicked selfies with them and videos shared on social media also showed some of the accused speaking to news channels even describing how they went about the killing. HT could not identify the veracity of these videos.Reports say that Diyawadana, who was in his 40s, opposed Tehreek-e-Labbaik Pakistan (TLP) stickers which bore Islamic verses and tore one of those and threw them in the dustbin. “A mob of over 800 men gathered at the factory at 10 am Friday on reports that Kumara had torn a sticker/poster (inscribed with Islamic verses) and committed blasphemy. They looked out for him and found him (from the rooftop). They dragged him, beat him severely and by 11.28 am he was dead and the body was set on fire by the violent mob,” inspector general of police of Punjab province Rao Sardar Ali Khan was quoted as saying by Geo News.Several video footage emerged where two people on separate occasions tried to save Diyawadana from the mob. One person was seen trying to save Diyawadana while the mob thrashed him. According to news agencies, he bore the brunt of the beating for a while but gave up after he could not tolerate the severity. Later another person pleaded to not set the dead body on fire but the mob tossed him aside.Diyawadana’s body will be sent to Lahore and handed over to the Sri Lankan consulate. The body will be sent to Sri Lanka via a special flight after completion of all legal formalities.The incident has seen widespread condemnation from Pakistan’s civil society with many accusing the government of being lackadaisical towards the TLP. Civilians protested in Karachi, Islamabad and Lahore following the gruesome death with many concerned that the incident will bring international shame to the nation.The Imran Khan-led government, which is at loggerheads with the hardline Islamist group, gave in to its demands and removed it from a list of proscribed outfits. Pakistan earlier freed 2,000 extremists of the TLP in the last two months.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/all-bones-broken-99-body-charred-post-mortem-report-of-lynched-lankan-reveals-gruesome-details-101638705372771.html
05-12-2021||India||News updates from HT: Mamata joins Rahul in seeking justice for Nagaland civilians and all the latest news||Here are today-’s top news, analysis and opinion. Know all about the latest news and other news updates from Hindustan Times.Nagaland civilian killings: After Rahul Gandhi, Mamata tweets about justiceHours after news of the killing of civilians by security forces came in from Nagaland, West Bengal chief minister Mamata Banerjee demanded a thorough investigation into the incident in a district along the border with Myanmar. Read more here. Bhagwant Mann of AAP says BJP leader offered him money, cabinet berth to switch campBhagwant Mann, an Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) MP from Punjab, said on Sunday a senior BJP leader recently offered him money and a Cabinet berth at the Centre to switch loyalty ahead of the Assembly election in the north Indian state next year. Read more here. 'Umpires were nervous, even forgot to check the ball tracker': Ex-PAK captain slams match officials for Kohli's decisionApart from Mayank Agarwal slamming a gritty century on Day 1 of the second India-New Zealand Test at the Wankhede Stadium in Mumbai, there was another occasion in the game that grabbed the headlines. Read more here. Abhishek Bachchan issues warning to trolls targeting daughter Aaradhya: ‘She’s out of bounds, will not tolerate it’Abhishek Bachchan tied the knot with actor Aishwarya Rai Bachchan in 2007. The couple welcomed their daughter Aaradhya Bachchan in 2011. Read more here. Wellness hack you must try before having your morning coffeeDo you start your day with a cup of tea or coffee? Here's what you need to do right before it. Read more here. Tata Motors, Honda, Renault looking to increase vehicle prices from JanuarySome carmakers such as Maruti Suzuki, Audi and Mercedes-Benz have already announced a hike in vehicle prices from next month. Read more here.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/news-updates-from-ht-mamata-joins-rahul-seeking-justice-for-nagaland-civilians-and-all-the-latest-news-101638702807731.html
05-12-2021||India||Nagaland civilian killings: After Rahul Gandhi, Mamata tweets about justice||Hours after news of the killing of civilians by security forces came in from Nagaland, West Bengal chief minister Mamata Banerjee demanded a thorough investigation into the incident in a district along the border with Myanmar.Tension gripped Nagaland after the killing of at least six daily wage labourers late on Saturday in firing by security forces on suspicion they were insurgents during a counter-insurgency operation between Oting and Tiru villages under the Mon district. The vehicle was allegedly fired upon by army personnel, who were out to conduct an operation in the area against the militants of the Yung Aung faction of proscribed outfit NSCN (K).Also watch: Probe ordered after forces firing kills 11 civilians during in Nagaland 
05-12-2021||India||Indian navy squadron, that sunk Pak warships in 1971 war, to get rare honour||The Indian Navy's 22nd Missile Vessel Squadron, that bombed the Karachi Port and sunk Pakistan Navy's vessels in the 1971 war, will receive the President's Standard, a rare honour for its distinguished service, from President Ram Nath Kovind on Wednesday, the Navy said. This year also marks 50 years of inception of the Missile Vessel Squadron, also known as the 'Killers', which over the past five decades has maintained the capability of delivering a credible offensive punch from the sea, a Navy official said on Sunday. Based in Mumbai, the Missile Vessel Squadron has participated in the Operation Vijay, Operation Parakram and most recently, during the heightened security state following the Pulwama attack, it was deployed within striking distance off the Pakistan coast. "The ships in this squadron have the ability to move swiftly and are missile-ready. Their deployment also acts as a deterrent,” said an official posted in the squadron. The Indian Navy was awarded the President's Colours on May 27, 1951 by the then President of India, Dr Rajendra Prasad. The President's Standard is the same honour as the President's Colours, awarded to a relatively smaller military formation or unit, the Navy said in a statement. The 22nd Missile Vessel Squadron was formally established in Mumbai in October 1991 with 10 Veer Class and three Prabal Class missile boats. But, the genesis of the 'Killers' dates back to 1969, with the induction of OSA I Class missile boats from the erstwhile USSR to bolster the Indian Navy's strength, the official said. These missile boats were transported to India on heavy lift merchant ships and commissioned in early 1971 in Kolkata. They were deployed on a crucial mission in the very first year, during the Indo-Pak war in 1971 and they played a decisive role in its outcome, he said. On the intervening night of December 4-5, 1971, the youngest warriors of a young Indian Navy drew first blood when they launched a devastating offensive on the Pakistan Navy. Indian Navy ships Nirghat, Nipat and Veer fired their Styx missiles and sank Pakistan Navy ships Khyber and Muhafiz, the official said. Codenamed Op Trident, this operation is considered to be one of the most successful operations in modern naval history, with no casualties being sustained by the Indian forces, he said. The Indian Navy carried out another daring attack on the intervening night of December 8-9, when INS Vinash, along with two frigates, launched four Styx missiles, sinking the Pakistan naval fleet tanker Dacca and inflicting substantial damage to Keamari oil storage facility in Karachi. “There were no damages reported to the Indian forces. It is because of these heroic deeds of the ships and men of the squadron that they earned the title of 'Killers' and the Indian Navy celebrates December 4 as the Navy Day,” the official said. The squadron personnel have been awarded battle honours, including one Maha Vir Chakra, seven Vir Chakras and eight Nausena Medals (Gallantry), which are testimony to the gallant spirit of the 'Killers', the Navy said. The year 2021 marks the 50th anniversary of India's victory in the 1971 war and is being celebrated across the country as 'Swarnim Vijay Varsh'.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/indian-navy-squadron-that-sunk-pak-warships-in-1971-war-to-get-rare-honour-101638697953951.html
05-12-2021||India||In protest against suspension of opposition MPs, Sena MP steps down as anchor of Sansad TV||As a mark of protest against the suspension of 12 opposition MPs for the entire duration of the ongoing winter session, Shiv Sena Rajya Sabha MP and spokesperson Priyanka Chaturvedi has stepped down as an anchor for Sansad TV, which is the official channel of the Indian Parliament. Chaturvedi was among the MPs who were suspended from the house on the first day of the winter session which began on November 29 for “unruly behaviour” during the previous monsoon session. The other lawmakers who are suspended include Chaturvedi’s party colleague Anil Desai, and those from the Congress, Communist Party of India (CPI), Communist Party of India (Marxist) (CPI-M), Congress and All India Trinamool Congress (AITMC).“It is with great anguish but with a sense of responsibility and having thought through this, I wish to inform you that I would like to step down as an anchor for Sansad TV’s show Meri Kahani,” wrote Chaturvedi, in the letter addressed to vice-president and Rajya Sabha chairman M Venkaiah Naidu with copies to speaker Om Birla and the Sansad TV chief executive officer (CEO).“After my arbitrary suspension, that has totally disregarded established Parliamentary norms and rules, to stifle my voice, my party’s voice inside the chamber, I am unwilling to continue taking space on Sansad TV when my primary oath to the constitution is being denied to me,” she added.Referring to her suspension, Chaturvedi said that “I believe injustice has been done, but as it is considered valid in the eyes of the chair, I must respect it.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/in-protest-against-suspension-of-opposition-mps-sena-mp-steps-down-as-anchor-of-sansad-tv-101638698493506.html
05-12-2021||India||Gattipally Shivpal becomes India's first dwarf to obtain driving license||Gattipally Shivpal, who hails from Hyderabad, has become the first dwarf in the country to obtain a driver's license.The 42-year-old man with a height of about three feet has beaten all odds and has become the first to complete his degree as a handicapped in his district Karimnagar. Shivpal finished his degree in 2004.Speaking to ANI, Shivpal said: "People used to tease me because of my height and today I am nominated for The Limca book of records and many others. Many short people are contacting me for driving training."The highly ambitious man said that he has decided to start a driving school next year for physically handicapped people.Shivpal presently works at a private firm here and says that he came to Hyderabad in 2000. "I am the eldest sibling and the only dwarf in the family," he added.Narrating his struggles with finding a job to sustain himself in the city, Shivpal said that he featured in a movie and a daily soap initially but could not sustain in the industry for long."People were not ready to offer me a job as I was handicapped. Through a friend, I got a job in a private company and now I have been working here for the past 20 years," he said."To commute, whenever I booked cabs, they used to cancel the ride. When I used to go out with my wife, people passed bad comments. That's when I decided to own a car and ride it," he added.Enthusiastic to learn to drive, Shivpal surfed the internet and found a video uploaded by a man in the US. It explained to him the modifications required in a car to lift the seat and other equipment up to his height.After getting a car modified, Shivpal learnt car driving from a friend. However, his struggles did not end here, as getting a license posed another challenge as the transport department had certain guidelines for height.Shivpal said that after appealing to the authorities, he obtained a learner's license for three months and then received a driver license after giving a proper driving test with an official sitting beside him."Everybody has some fault in them, but finding your hidden talents and achieving them is what matters," he remarked.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/gattipally-shivpal-becomes-india-s-first-dwarf-to-obtain-driving-license-101638697198644.html
05-12-2021||India||UPA to jointly decide on opposition bloc's face against BJP in 2024, says Baghel||Chhattisgarh chief minister and Congress leader Bhupesh Baghel on Sunday said the prime ministerial face of the opposition bloc against the Bharatiya Janata Party's (BJP) candidate would be decided collectively by the United Progressive Alliance (UPA). The statement by the veteran leader came a day after he took a jibe at West Bengal chief minister and Trinamool Congress supremo Mamata Banerjee to say the existence of the UPA cannot be denied.Baghel also attacked Banerjee, saying she must clarify whether she wants to make Trinamool Congress the main opposition party by fighting those in power or by taking on fellow opposition parties.“The opposition fought under the banner of the UPA in spite of a change in the federal government in 2014, and the leaders should strengthen that formation in their fight against the BJP,” Bhupesh said at the concluding day of the 19th Hindustan Times Leadership Summit on Saturday.During her visit to Mumbai days ago, Banerjee remarked that there was no UPA left in the country as she made a pitch for an united opposition front to take on the BJP at the Centre during the 2024 Lok Sabha elections.“What is UPA? There is no UPA,” Banerjee was heard telling media persons shortly after her meeting with Nationalist Congress Party (NCP) chief Sharad Pawar on December 1.ALSO READ | Shiv Sena backs off from Mamata Banerjee’s ‘no UPA’ remark, says opposition needs UPASlamming Banerjee for her comments, Baghel also demanded from her to reveal the conversations that she had with Prime Minister Narendra Modi during their meeting in New Delhi ahead of Parliament's Winter Session.Questioning the rationale behind attacking the Congress, Baghel also said that if Banerjee aims to become a “big leader”, she must sharpen her sword against the BJP-led government at the Centre.Banerjee faced criticisms from several quarters for her comments. The chief of Congress' West Bengal unit, Adhir Ranjan Chowdhury, alleged that Banerjee was “Modi's informer” and she “wants to break and weaken” the Congress as well as the opposition parties.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/bhupesh-baghel-upa-bjp-lok-sabha-elections-2024-opposition-unity-mamata-banerjee-101638696066499.html
05-12-2021||India||Omicron patient in Maharashtra stable, responding well to treatment: Officials||The 33-year-old man from Maharashtra's Thane district, who tested positive for the Omicron variant of coronavirus, is stable and responding well to treatment, a senior health official said on Sunday.According to news agency PTI, the marine engineer is being treated at a Covid-19 care centre in Kalyan, a town about 50km from the state capital of Mumbai.Dr Gauri Rathod, deputy director of health services (Mumbai circle), told PTI the resident of Dombivli town will undergo the treatment protocol for 14 days as prescribed for the Omicron variant. Rathod said he will continue to receive treatment at the Kalyan centre and will not be shifted elsewhere.Also read | Weakness, body ache: Common symptoms of 5 Omicron patients in IndiaThe man arrived in Delhi from South Africa on November 23 and gave his samples for Covid-19 testing at the Delhi airport. He then flew to Mumbai.Officials also told PTI samples of six other people, who tested positive for Covid-19 after arriving in the Kalyan-Dombivli area of Thane district from different countries, have been sent for genome sequencing and the results are awaited.Kalyan Dombivli Municipal Corporation's epidemic cell chief Dr Pratibha Panpatil said six other people, who travelled from different countries to the Kalyan-Dombivli area, have tested positive for the Covid-19 and have been kept in isolation.Also read | India's 5th Omicron case in Delhi, returned from Tanzania: 10 pointsDr Panpatil said the samples of the patients, four of whom travelled from Nigeria and one each from Russia and Nepal, have been sent for genome sequencing and the results will be known soon. "The condition of all the six is stable. They are asymptomatic and none of them had come from high-risk countries," she told PTI.India reported its fifth case of Omicron after a man in Delhi tested positive for the latest coronavirus variant. Apart from these, two Omicron cases have been confirmed in Karnataka and one in Gujarat.Meanwhile, a man who came from Tanzania has tested positive for Covid-19 in Dharavi and the case is suspected to be Omicron variant, officials said on Sunday.Also read | Why Omicron is likely to affect major Indian cities, ex-CSIR scientist explains"His sample has been sent for genome sequencing and the results are awaited. He has been admitted to the hospital after testing positive for the virus," Mumbai mayor Kishori Pednekar said during a press conference.The Mumbai mayor said the man’s close contacts are being tested for Covid-19 and his travel history is being traced.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/omicron-patient-in-maharashtra-stable-responding-well-to-treatment-officials-101638694753199.html
05-12-2021||India||New variant can arise when animals catch Covid from humans: Study||The findings of a new study suggest that when animals catch Covid-19 from humans, new SARS-CoV-2 variants can arise.To evaluate this phenomenon, an interdisciplinary team at the College of Veterinary Medicine and Biomedical Sciences systematically analysed mutation types occurring in the virus after infection of cats, dogs, ferrets, and hamsters. The study was recently published in 'PNAS', the official journal of the National Academy of Sciences.Confirmed Covid-19 cases in a variety of wild, zoo, and household animals demonstrate cross-species transmission, which is a rare occurrence for most viruses."SARS-CoV-2, in the realm of coronaviruses, has a very broad species range," said Laura Bashor, one of the first authors and a doctoral student in the Department of Microbiology, Immunology and Pathology. "Generally speaking, many types of viruses can't infect other species of animals, they evolved to be very specific.""Humans have so much exposure to many different animals which permitted this virus to have the opportunity to expose a variety of different species," said Erick Gagne, a first author and now an assistant professor of wildlife disease ecology at the University of Pennsylvania.The global reach and spillover of the virus have given researchers a unique opportunity to investigate the viral evolution of SARS-CoV-2, including in University Distinguished Professor Sue VandeWoude's laboratory at Colorado State University.These specialists in disease transmission in wild and domestic cats applied their experience in sequence analysis and studying a collection of genomes to SARS-CoV-2. Researchers in the VandeWoude lab worked with Assistant Professor Angela Bosco-Lauth and Professor Dick Bowen in the Department of Biomedical Sciences, who used their animal modelling expertise to develop a test for SARS-CoV-2 susceptibility of animal species.Also, the key to the findings was a newer sequencing technique of the virus at different stages of the study, now common to detect variants in the human population. Mark Stenglein, associate professor in the Department of Microbiology, Immunology, and Pathology, provided computational skills in analyzing biological molecule sequences, known as bioinformatics, to the study."We found there was evolution, we saw the selection on the virus, and we saw a lot of variants emerge in the genome sequence of the virus," said Bashor.To provide ample viral material for the study, Bosco-Lauth and Bowen cultivated a SARS-CoV-2 human sample in cells grown in the lab. Bashor and Gagne determined that multiple mutations developed, and became a greater percentage of the genetic population, at each step of this process.Then the virus was introduced to the four household species, and samples of the virus were collected from their nasal passages after infection."In the animals, the cell culture variants reverted back to the initial human type, which indicates that likely there is adaption occurring in that cell culture and environment that was selected for those variants," said Gagne.Not all these mutations within the cell culture SARS-CoV-2 variant transferred in the new hosts. Instead, different mutations emerged within the virus shed by the live animals.The initial viral sample in the study was isolated in early 2020. The team observed mutations that have since formed widespread SARS-CoV-2 strains in the human population at an accelerated rate throughout the study."Among those were a number that we've since seen in humans in the alpha, beta, delta variants," said Dr Sue VandeWoude, senior author. "There were specific genetic code changes that mimicked what other scientists have reported in people."Contact exposure between two cats demonstrated the SARS-CoV-2 variant can be transmitted with the possibility of producing a new strain within the species."That's what we're seeing in people too," said Bosco-Lauth. "Hosts that are really well adapted to support SARS-CoV-2 infection are also very good at allowing these mutations to stick and to be passed on."Bashor did not anticipate studying SARS-CoV-2 when she came to CSU to begin her doctoral studies during the pandemic. However, it provided a unique opportunity to hit the ground running as a graduate student on a "really cool and viable project" in disease ecology and evolution.Gagne was completing his postdoctoral research on the cross-species transmission of feline retroviruses in the VandeWoude lab when the team launched the SARS-CoV-2 study. Now an assistant professor, he has continued to investigate SARS-CoV-2 spillover with the Wildlife Futures Program at the University of Pennsylvania.Graduate students and early-career scientists like Bashor and Gagne, have made meaningful contributions to SARS-CoV-2 research, said Vande Woude.The team has continued their investigations to focus on cats, as they have shown higher susceptibility for Covid-19 spillover from humans and can produce variants of the virus and spread to other cats.Bashor began analyzing SARS-CoV-2 genome sequences from a large pool of cat species all over the world, including tigers, lions and snow leopards. The publicly available data of infected cats could provide additional insights on the adaptability and mutability of Covid-19 within and among cat species.There is no evidence of transmission from cats to humans. But cats continue to be susceptible to all variants of Covid-19 in the human population.By understanding viral evolution within cats, the research team may find answers to the question: what is the future of SARS-CoV-2 for humans and animals.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/new-variant-can-arise-when-animals-catch-covid-from-humans-study-101638693898682.html
05-12-2021||India||‘Mamata trying for something new without Congress’: Sena’s Sanjay Raut||Shiv Sena Rajya Sabha MP Sanjay Raut has said that All India Trinamool Congress (AITMC) president and West Bengal chief minister Mamata Banerjee seemed to be looking at creating an anti-BJP front while excluding the Congress. Raut however said that the AITMC was not contemplating a political foray in Maharashtra as the Shiv Sena and the Nationalist Congress Party (NCP) were effectively standing up to the might of the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP).In his weekly column Rokhthok on Sunday in the Shiv Sena mouthpiece Saamana, of which he is the executive editor, Raut said that Banerjee, who had visited Mumbai last week and met Shiv Sena leader and tourism minister Aaditya Thackeray, and NCP supremo Sharad Pawar, wanted to expand beyond her state. The party had created a footprint in Goa, Meghalaya and Tripura.“It seems that she is thinking of doing something new minus the Congress,” wrote Raut, adding that however, the AITMC chief had said that they were not eager to make a foray into Maharashtra due to the strong presence of the Shiv Sena and the NCP. Raut also slammed the Maharashtra BJP for criticising Mamata by claiming that she had come here to snatch away local industries to West Bengal. “They criticised Mamata Banerjee but did not utter a word against Gujarat chief minister who met industrialists from Maharashtra for Vibrant Gujarat summit. This is hypocrisy,” he said.The Congress is a constituent of the Maha Vikas Aghadi (MVA) government in Maharashtra, which is led by Shiv Sena president Uddhav Thackeray. In her visit to Mumbai, Banerjee, while speaking to the press, even questioned the existence of the United Progressive Alliance (UPA), which is anchored by Congress.In a cryptic comment, Raut referred to how Banerjee had given the slogan ‘Jai Bangla, Jai Maharashtra,’ during her visit, and said “this cry is a symbol of how politics will shape up in the future.” He also likened Banerjee’s visit to that of a sister who had returned home.Raut added that like Banerjee’s resounding defeat of the BJP in Bengal, a similar set of events had played out in Maharashtra (through the formation of the MVA government) to “stand up to the overarching dominance of Delhi.” The people of Maharashtra and Bengal had defeated the “power, money and the extreme suppressive use of the central investigating agencies.” Referring to the clashes between the West Bengal government and the Centre, Raut quoted Banerjee as saying that “the Marathas and the Bengalis are martial people, they will not step down…”BJP had questioned the details of the meeting between Mamata Banerjee and Maharashtra tourism minister Aaditya Thackeray at the Trident hotel. Raut said that they discussed the exchange for tourism development between two states and the CM Banerjee demanded a plot in Mumbai for the accommodation of the cancer patients visiting Tata Hospital in Mumbai.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/mamata-trying-for-something-new-without-congress-sena-s-sanjay-raut-101638693272404.html
05-12-2021||India||‘Solve issues in Delhi first’: Sidhu hits out at Kejriwal at teachers' protest||Punjab Congress president Navjot Singh Sidhu on Sunday joined a group government guest teachers in the national capital who have been holding a protest over their demand for permanent jobs outside the residence of Delhi chief minister Arvind Kejriwal."22,000 guest teachers are working as bonded labourers here, Sidhu told mediapersons in Delhi. He further slammed Kejriwal for joining the protest of contractual teachers in Punjab's Mohali last month. "You should first solve the issues in your state before you come to Punjab to lure people there," he said.Taking potshots at the Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) government in Delhi on Twitter, the PCC chief alleged that 45 per cent of the teacher posts in government schools are vacant and 22,000 guest teachers are on daily wages.Sidhu went on to criticise the Kejriwal-led party for failing their 2015 poll promise to give contractual teachers “equal wages as permanent staff”“In your 2015 manifesto you promised 8 lakh new jobs and 20 new colleges in Delhi, where are the jobs and colleges ? You have given only 440 Jobs in Delhi. On the contrary of your failed guarantees, unemployment rate of Delhi has increased by almost 5 times in last 5 years,” he alleged.The Punjab Congress chief went on to say that in 2015 there were 12,515 job vacancies for teachers in Delhi "but in 2021 there are 19,907 job vacancies of teachers in Delhi”.Last month, Kejriwal had joined the protest of contractual teachers in Punjab's Mohali who have been pressing for several demands including regularization of services of contractual teachers.He had also promised to implement a transfer policy for teachers and assured them cashless medical treatment facilities if the party comes to power.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/solve-issues-in-delhi-first-sidhu-hits-out-at-kejriwal-at-teachers-protest-101638690375764.html
05-12-2021||India||Weakness, body ache: Common symptoms of 5 Omicron patients in India||As South African doctors who first dealt with Omicron patients said that this variant has been producing symptoms that are different from the previous infections, the five confirmed Omicron cases in India report mild symptoms. The Tanzania returnee who became the 5th Omicron patient of India and the first confirmed case of Delhi had a sore throat, weakness and body ache, LNJP MP Dr Suresh Kumar told news agency ANI. The other international travellers who have been admitted to LNJP after testing positive are stable and majorly asymptomatic.  The previous infections, caused by Delta or other variants of the SARS-CoV-2, triggered breathing trouble, loss of taste and smell. Though Omicron is at the stage of research and not much is known about the variant, the cases reported in India and other countries indicate that the symptoms are more like common cold and nothing like Covid-19 cases, caused by other variants.The unfamiliar symptoms of Omicron were first reported by South African doctor Angelique Coetzee, chairperson of the South African Medical Association, who first alerted the South Africa government about the new variant. Scientists said this new characteristic of Omicron might be a result of its mutation. The variant might have adopted a "more human" appearance by picking up a snippet of genetic material from another virus, probably a common cold virus.The first Omicron case of India, the South African national who already left the country, was completely asymptomatic and tested negative. The Bengaluru doctor with no international travel history, the Mumbai marine engineer who was not vaccinated, the Gujarat NRI -- all Omicron patients have reported mild symptoms.While these symptoms indicate that the variant is not causing severe illness, scientists are not yet sure about its increased transmissibility. Director of Tata Institute for Genetics and Society and former Chief of Council of Scientific and Industrial Research-Centre For Cellular And Molecular Biology, Dr Rakesh Mishra, said people are likely to confuse this with the common cold as there is no breathing trouble or loss of smell or taste, which may increase its spread.(With agency inputs)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/weakness-body-ache-common-symptoms-of-5-omicron-patients-in-india-101638692407844.html
05-12-2021||India||After Varun Gandhi slams UP police action against protesters, Rahul, Priyanka tweet||Congress leaders Priyanka Gandhi and Rahul Gandhi and their cousin Varun Gandhi, a BJP MP from Pilibhit, hit out at the Uttar Pradesh government after Lucknow police reportedly used batons on people holding candlelight march over the alleged irregularities in the 2019 UP teachers' entrance test. Varun Gandhi, who has been critical of the Centre and the state government, both run by his own party, was the first among the cousins to share the purported clip of police beating up the protesters in Lucknow.Varun said that no one is ready to even listen to these “children of Mother India” let alone accept their demands. He asked people to think whether the protesters would have been treated the same way if they were their own children. The BJP MP questioned why recruitments are not taking place when the government has vacancies as well as qualified candidates.ये बच्चे भी मां भारती के लाल हैं, इनकी बात मानना तो दूर, कोई सुनने को तैयार नहीं है। इस पर भी इनके ऊपर ये बर्बर लाठीचार्ज।अपने दिल पर हाथ रखकर सोचिए क्या ये आपके बच्चे होते तो इनके साथ यही व्यवहार होता?? आपके पास रिक्तियां भी हैं और योग्य अभ्यर्थी भी, तो भर्तियां क्यों नहीं?? pic.twitter.com/6F67ZDJgzWSoon after, Rahul Gandhi took to Twitter asking people to remember this incident when the Bharatiya Janata Party leaders come to them seeking votes."The UP government beat those seeking employment with sticks. Remember this when the BJP comes seeking votes!" he said in a tweet in Hindi.रोज़गार माँगने वालों को #UP सरकार ने लाठियाँ दीं-जब भाजपा वोट माँगने आए तो याद रखना! pic.twitter.com/ZZGg9thd7nLucknow Police lathi-charge on teachers protesting over job irregularitiesPriyanka Gandhi, Congress general-secretary in charge of Uttar Pradesh, said the Yogi Adityanath-led government has become synonymous with ‘darkness’ as it “gave sticks” to those demanding jobs with candlelight in their hands. She urged the youth to not let the flame of the fight for employment extinguish.“I am with this you in this fight,” she wrote on Twitter.उप्र के युवा हाथों में मोमबत्तियों का उजाला लेकर आवाज उठा रहे थे कि "रोजगार दो"।लेकिन, अंधेरगर्दी की पर्याय बन चुकी योगी जी की सरकार ने उन युवाओं को लाठियां दीं।युवा साथियों, ये कितनी भी लाठियां चलाएं, रोजगार के हक की लड़ाई की लौ बुझने मत देना। मैं इस लड़ाई में आपके साथ हूं। pic.twitter.com/w40OAizX4eMeanwhile, the UPTET 2021 examination that was scheduled for November 28 has been cancelled following an alleged question paper leak. The Uttar Pradesh government has suspended the secretary of the state's Exam Regulatory Authority (ERA), Sanjay Kumar Upadhyay, with immediate effect in connection with the case.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/remember-this-gandhi-cousins-hit-out-at-up-govt-after-police-use-batons-on-protesters-101638690222578.html
05-12-2021||India||Rajya Sabha lost 52.30% of sitting time in Winter Session’s first week||The Rajya Sabha lost 52.30 per cent of the scheduled sitting time during the first week of the ongoing Winter Session of Parliament on account of "disruptions and forced adjournments" due to the constant protests by opposition parties, news agency ANI reported on Sunday.However, the situation seemed to be returning to normal as the productivity in the Upper House remained above 95 per cent on the last two days of the week that ended on December 3, ANI also reported. The best productivity of 100 per cent was reported on Friday, as per the report.Since the commencement of Parliament’s Winter Session on Monday, there have been continuous disruptions in the functioning of both Houses due to the protests by the members of opposition parties.In a move that further fuelled anger in opposition leaders, 12 of their lawmakers in Rajya Sabha were suspended from the Winter Session on the very first day on Monday following a motion brought in by the government.The members were suspended for alleged unruly conduct towards the end of the Monsoon Session in August when marshals were called after opposition leaders stormed the Well of the House during the passage of the General Insurance Business (Nationalisation) Amendment Bill, 2021.Among the suspended members six are from the Congress -- Phulo Devi Netam, Chhaya Verma, Ripun Bora, Rajamani Patel, Syed Nasir Hussain and Akhilesh Prasad Singh. Dola Sen and Shanta Chhetri are from the Trinamool Congress, Shiv Sena’s Priyanka Chaturvedi and Anil Desai, the CPI’s Binoy Viswam and CPI(M) leader Elamaram Kareem.On Friday, Rajya Sabha chairman M Venkaiah Naidu held discussions with some opposition leaders and ministers to urge both sides to further discuss their stated views on the suspension of 12 members of the House in the wake of their demand for a revocation.The Winter Session began on November 29 and is likely to conclude on December 23.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/rajya-sabha-lost-52-30-of-sitting-time-in-winter-session-s-first-week-101638691324980.html
05-12-2021||India||New Covid clusters in Karnataka: 29 nursing students positive at Shivamogga||Amid Omicron fear in Karnataka with two positive cases reported so far, a new Covid cluster has been identified at a private nursing school in Karnataka's Shivamogga with 29 nursing students testing positive. Most of these students are asymptomatic. "We are doing random sampling at many places and found out that few students, who came from different states at a private nursing school, contracted COVID. We have sealed the hostel premises. Around 29 students have turned positive from the institution," Shivamogga deputy commissioner KB Sivakumar said.In another cluster, around 40 students of a school in Karnataka's Chikkamagaluru district have tested positive. Reports said this new cluster has been identified at Jawahar Navodaya School at Seegodu.The cluster outbreak has come at a time the state has already reported the Omicron variant of Covid, first identified in South Africa. However, these cases can't be linked to Omicron unless genome sequencing is done.The Karnataka government has redefined the rule of announcing clusters and said an area with three Covid cases will be considered a cluster. Previously, the number was 10.The government has also asked educational institutes to suspend functions while hostel students are also being randomly checked for Covid. Full vaccination has been made mandatory for parents whose kids are attending physical classes.(With agency inputs)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/new-covid-clusters-in-karnataka-29-nursing-students-positive-at-shivamogga-101638690113891.html
05-12-2021||India||Centre warns these 5 states, UT over rising Covid cases, positivity rate, deaths||The Centre has written to five states and a Union territory to take necessary steps to curb the rising cases of coronavirus disease (Covid-19), weekly positivity rates and deaths in some of their districts.Union health secretary Rajesh Bhushan said on Saturday Karnataka, Kerala, Tamil Nadu, Odisha Mizoram and Jammu and Kashmir must further the strategy of testing, tracking, treating vaccinating and enforce Covid appropriate behaviour strategy to control the spread of Covid-19 and bring down related deaths."In this context, required necessary steps to control the spread of infection and reduce fatality need to be taken as per the ongoing strategy of Test-Track-Treat-Vaccinate-Covid Appropriate Behaviour to keep the situation under control," Bhushan underlined in this later letter.Also read | India's 5th Omicron case in Delhi, returned from Tanzania: 10 pointsBhushan referred to the letter sent to all states and Union territories on November 27 in the context of the new Omicron variant. He said all states have been advised to undertake enhanced surveillance of international travellers, monitor emerging hotspots and promptly trace the contacts of positive people.He also said they have been advised to send all positive samples for genome sequencing, early identification of cases and review of health infrastructure preparedness and most importantly to focus on IEC and community sensitisation.KeralaRajesh Bhushan said Kerala has reported 171,521 new Covid-19 cases in the month ending December 3, with a contribution of 55.8 per cent to the country’s new cases from over the past month.He highlighted Kerala has reported a slight increase in weekly new deaths to 2,118 deaths (week ending December 3) from 1,890 deaths (week ending November 26). Thrissur, Malappuram, Kozhikode and Kollam districts are reporting a high quantum of weekly new deaths in the state, he said.Also read | 'Moment of great pride': Half of India's adult population fully vaccinated“Also, 13 out of 14 districts are reporting a high quantum of weekly new cases in the state. Districts of concern in the week ending December 2 are Thiruvananthapuram (5,541), Ernakulam, (4,976), Kozhikode (3,676), Thrissur (2,903) and Kottayam (2,478)," Bhushan noted.Four districts of Thiruvananthapuram (11.61 per cent), Wayanad (11.25 per cent), Kozhikode (11 per cent) and Kottayam (10.81 per cent) are showing high weekly positivity of more than 10 per cent, while nine districts are reporting weekly positivity between 5-10 per cent.Tamil NaduTamil Nadu has reported 23,764 new cases of Covid-19 during the same period. Vellore, Thiruvallur and Chennai showed an increase in weekly new infections in the past week.MizoramMizoram has reported 12,562 new Cvodi-19 cases in the month ending December 4, with a contribution of 4.1 per cent to India's new infections over the past month. The Aizawl district is reporting a high number of weekly new Covid-19 cases with 1,079 new infections reported in the week ending December 3.Also read | India reports 8,895 new Covid cases, 2,796 deaths as 2 states clear 'backlog'Bhushan also said four out of 11 districts—Saiha, Khawzawl, Serchhip and Mamit—reported an increase in the week ending December 3, as compared to the week ending November 26. Eight out of 11 districts are showcasing high weekly positivity of more than 10 per cent, Bhushan said in his letter.KarnatakaBhushan in his letter addressed to Karnataka principal secretary (health), pointed out the southern state has reported 8,073 new Covid-19 cases in the month ending December 3 in 30 days.The state has reported a slight increase in weekly new cases to 2,272 cases (week ending December 3) from 1,664 cases (week ending November 26), along with an increase in weekly new deaths from 22 to 29 over the same period, Bhushan said.Also read | Why Omicron is likely to affect major Indian cities, ex-CSIR scientist explainsAn increase in weekly new deaths has been noted in Bengaluru Urban, from eight new deaths reported in the week ending November 25 to 14 deaths in the week ending December 2, he said.According to the health ministry, a rise in weekly cases has also been noted in Tumakuru, Dharwad, Bengaluru Urban and Mysuru in Karnataka.OdishaBhushan said the state has reported 7,445 new Covid-19 cases during the same period, with a contribution of 2.5 per cent to India's new cases from over the past month."It is important to note that Khordha district in the state is reporting a high quantum of weekly new cases with 900 new cases reported in the week ending December 3. Further, six out of 30 districts ---Dhenkanal, Kandhamal, Nabarangpur, Kendujhar, Anugul and Balangir-- reported an increase in the weekly caseload as compared to the week ending November 26," he said in the letter.Also read | Kerala to pull up 5,000 unvaccinated teachersThe state has seen a decline of 3.1 per cent in weekly tests conducted, from 401,164 tests in the week ending November 26 to 388,788 tests in the week ending December 3, with -36 per cent RT-PCR share, the Union health secretary highlighted.Jammu and KashmirBhushan said Jammu and Kashmir has reported 4,806 new Covid-19 cases in the month ending December 3, with a few districts such as Kathua, Jammu, Ganderbal and Baramulla showing an increase in the previous week.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/centre-warns-these-5-states-ut-over-rising-covid-cases-positivity-rate-deaths-101638690009692.html
05-12-2021||India||'Committed to provide world-class technologies to BSF for security': Amit Shah in Jaisalmer||Union home minister Amit Shah on Sunday paid tributes to the security forces in the country as he participated in the 57th Raising Day celebrations of the Border Security Forces (BSF). Speaking on the occasion, Shah informed that India is developing anti-drone technology, which will be provided to the security forces soon.More than 35,000 jawans of the country's police force, BSF and Central Armed Police Forces, have sacrificed their lives for the country, he said paying tribute to all the soldiers who made the supreme sacrifice for the nation.Terming BSF as the first line of defence, Amit Shah said, "For our government, border security means national security. We are committed to providing world-class technologies to BSF for border security."Drones and unidentified flying objects have been sighted along the sensitive border with Pakistan post the 2019 abrogation of Article 370, according to central security agencies.He also distributed health cards under Prime Minister Narendra Modi's flagship healthcare scheme Ayushman Bharat Yojana to the personnel of BSF as he took part in the celebrations at Rohitash Border.Shah is on a two-day visit to Rajasthan. After Jaisalmer, he will be heading for Jaipur to address the BJP state working committee meeting.He is also scheduled to address the public representatives conference which will involve panchayat Samiti members, Zilla Parishad members, district heads, deputy chiefs, pradhans and deputy pradhans, MPs, MLAs.During the working committee meeting today, BJP's organisational review, upcoming action plan, complete farmer loan waiver, electricity, health, education, unemployment, law and order, the strategy and mission of the movement among other things will be discussed in detail.(With agency inputs)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/committed-to-provide-world-class-technologies-to-bsf-for-security-amit-shah-101638689611459.html
05-12-2021||India||News updates from HT: Rahul Gandhi slams home ministry over Nagaland killings and all the latest news||Here are today’s top news, analysis and opinion. Know all about the latest news and other news updates from Hindustan Times.'What exactly is the home ministry doing': Rahul Gandhi on civilian killing in NagalandCongress leader Rahul Gandhi on Sunday said the incident of civilian killing in Nagaland during an Army operation in heart-wrenching. The government must give a real reply, the Congress leader said. Read moreNagaland civilian deaths: What we know so farSeveral civilians were mistakenly killed by security forces during an anti-insurgency operation in the Mon district of Nagaland, along with the porous international border with Myanmar, officials said on Sunday. Read moreLight rain, thundershowers likely in Delhi today, AQI to remain ‘very poor’: IMDA blanket of cloud and haze enveloped Delhi as the India Meteorological Department (IMD) predicted light rain and thundershower in the national capital on Sunday evening or night. Read moreIND vs NZ: VVS Laxman explains reason why Virat Kohli and Rahul Dravid didn't enforce a follow-on in Mumbai TestVirat Kohli was never a fan of of enforcing a follow-on. But when the bowlers dismantled New Zealand for just 62, with the visitors 263 behind, most, if not all, expected the Indian skipper to enforce a follow-on. Read moreTaapsee Pannu says she tried to ‘seem more glamorous, a little dumb’ to work with big heroes in order to become a starTaapsee Pannu has revealed that in her initial days in the industry, she was told to work with big names, look and behave a certain way in order to reach the top. Read moreVarun Dhawan pairs regal kurta-dhoti with sneaker mojari, serves striking shaadi season look: Fans reactActor Varun Dhawan is ready for the shaadi season and how. The star loves his casual wardrobe. However, that never shies him away from wearing modern traditional outfits. Read moreHarley-Davidson Sportster S launched in India: Price, features, specs explainedHarley-Davidson has launched its new bike Harley-Davidson Sportster S in India at a price of ₹15.51 lakh (ex-showroom). Read more||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/news-updates-from-ht-rahul-gandhi-slams-home-ministry-over-nagaland-killings-101638687593893.html
05-12-2021||India||India's 5th Omicron case in Delhi, returned from Tanzania: 10 points||India on Sunday reported its fifth case of Omicron after a man, who arrived in Delhi from Tanzania, tested positive for the latest coronavirus variant, officials said.The first two Omicron cases were reported in Karnataka in a 66-year-old South African national and in a 46-year-old doctor with no international travel history.India reported the third and the fourth cases of Omicron on Saturday from Gujarat's Jamnagar and Maharashtra's Dombivli respectively.Here’s what we know so far about Omicron cases in India:1. News agency PTI reported citing officials the patient in Delhi is an Indian and returned from Tanzania a few days ago.2. He is currently admitted at the Lok Nayak Hospital, the designated centre for isolation of those suspected to have Omicron, and has mild symptoms, they added.Also read | 1st Omicron case in Delhi is Tanzania-returnee; new variant cases now 5 in India3. The patient's travel history is being collated and contacts being traced, they also said.4. As many as 13 international travellers suspected to be infected with the Omicron variant of coronavirus have been admitted to a separate isolation ward at Lok Nayak hospital till Saturday evening.Also read | 'Moment of great pride': Half of India's adult population fully vaccinated5. The traveller from Tanzania was the only person from Africa, all others were from Europe and US. Four others have been admitted to the hospital after that.6. However, Delhi’s health minister Satyendar Jain said 17 people, who come from abroad, have tested positive for Covid-19 and they have been admitted to the hospital.Also read | Amid Omicron scare, Delhi Police prepare action plan7. In Maharashtra, the man who has been found to be infected with the Omicron variant is a 33-year-old marine engineer. The man travelled to Mumbai from South Africa via Dubai and Delhi late last month.8. PTI reported citing an official he has not taken any Covid vaccine as he was at sea for months.Also read | Why Omicron is likely to affect major Indian cities, ex-CSIR scientist explains9. The 72-year-old man, who returned from Zimbabwe, was found infected with the Omicron variant of coronavirus in Gujarat's Jamnagar, the state’s health department has said.10. The 46-year-old fully vaccinated doctor from Bengaluru developed symptoms of fever and body ache. The 66-year-old South African national came to India with a negative Covid-19 report in November and has left the country.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/indias-5th-omicron-case-in-delhi-returned-from-tanzania-10-points-101638687722422.html
05-12-2021||India||At least 12 civilians, 1 security personnel killed in Nagaland, inquiry ordered||Nagaland continues to be tense on Sunday over the killing of at least a dozen civilians late Saturday in firing by security forces in Tiru-Oting area under Mon district on suspicion of them being militants, people aware of the development said. The state government on Sunday constituted a high level special investigation team (SIT) probe into the killings, believed to be a case of mistaken identity, while the army has constituted a court of inquiry (COI) to ascertain the cause of the botched up operation.A defence release regretted the killing of civilians, clarifying that it was meant to be a counter-insurgency operation based on credible intelligence of militants’ presence in Tiru area .“The incident and its aftermath is deeply regretted. The cause of the unfortunate loss of lives is being investigated at the highest level and appropriate action will be taken as per the course of law,” a statement issued by the headquarters of the Army’s 3 Corps said.HT’s efforts to reach police and security forces to get the details of the incident and the exact casualty figure went unrewarded. The incident took place between Oting and Tiru villages when some daily wage labourers were returning home in a pick-up van from a coal mine on Saturday evening. The vehicle was allegedly fired upon by army personnel, who were out to conduct an operation in the area against the militants of Yung Aung faction of proscribed outfit NSCN (K). A person aware of the developments said, at least six labourers were killed in this first firing incident.Mon shares a porous international border with Myanmar, where the Yung Aung faction of NSCN (K) is based.Soon after the first incident, irate villagers reached the spot and reportedly set ablaze two security vehicles, sparking off another round of firing by security forces to “control the situation” in which at least seven villagers and one security personal died, the person quoted above added. Locals claimed that nine villagers were also injured in the second incident of firing. The injured and the dead were shifted to Mon district headquarters. “The security forces have suffered severe injuries in the incident [villagers’ retaliatory action] including one soldier who succumbed to his injuries,” the headquarters of 3 Corps confirmed.Also Read | Nagaland civilian deaths: What we know so farNagaland chief minister Neiphiu Rio announced a high level special investigation team (SIT) probe into the incident on Sunday morning. “The unfortunate incident leading to killing of civilians at Oting, Mon is highly condemnable. Condolences to the bereaved families & speedy recovery of those injured. High level SIT will investigate & justice delivered as per the law of the land. Appeal for peace from all sections.”Union home minister Amit Shah also tweeted, “Anguished over an unfortunate incident in Nagaland’s Oting, Mon. I express my deepest condolences to the families of those who have lost their lives. A high-level SIT constituted by the state govt will thoroughly probe this incident to ensure justice to the bereaved families.”Meanwhile, the Eastern Nagaland People’s Organisation (ENPO), the apex body of six Naga tribes of five districts including Mon, has condemned the “barbaric act”. The ENPO is stated to have requested all its six (Konyak, Khiamniungan, Phom, Sangtam, Yimkhiung and Chang) tribes to abstain from participating in the ongoing Hornbill Festival with immediate effect till the funeral rites of the deceased are completed, and directed them to hoist black flags at their morungs (traditional huts) at the main festival site- The Naga Heritage Village Kisama.The Konyak Union Kohima has already announced to abstain from any further participation at the ongoing festival citing “atrocities” by the security forces at Oting village.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/over-dozen-civilians-one-security-personnel-killed-in-nagaland-inquiry-ordered-101638687990883.html
05-12-2021||India||1st Omicron case in Delhi is Tanzania-returnee; new variant cases now 5 in India||Delhi has confirmed its first Omicron case on Sunday, taking the number of confirmed cases of this new variant of Covid in the country to five. The patient has returned from Tanzania and is now admitted to the LNJP hospital, Delhi health minister Satyendar Jain said. Around 17 passengers who have reached Delhi in the past few days from foreign "at risk" locations are admitted to the government's LNJP hospital after they tested Covid positive. Their samples have been sent for genome sequencing.Til Saturday evening, there were 13 international travellers, suspected to be infected with Omicron, were admitted to a separate isolation ward at Lok Nayak hospital. Among them, the Tanzania returnee was the only person from Africa and the others are from Europe and the US, officials confirmed. LNJP hospital has been designated for the treatment of the Omicron variant, though this is the first case in the Capital. The patient has a sore throat, weakness and body ache, the common symptoms reported so far in the Omicron cases. Omicron cases in India: What their age, travel and vaccination history revealDelhi is the third location to have identified the new variant, first found in South Africa. The first two Omicron cases were reported from Bengaluru, while the third was from Gujarat's Jamnagar and the fourth was from Mumbai.Except for the 46-year-old Bengaluru doctor who was found infected with this new variant of the coronavirus, all four cases reported from India are linked with international travel. The first confirmed Omicron case was a South African national who has returned to his country after testing negative. The Omicron case in Mumbai is an unvaccinated marine engineer who came to Mumbai from South Africa. The Gujarat Omicron case is an NRI who has been living in Zimbabwe for many years.The variant is believed to be more transmissible than Delta, though based on available studies and cases, scientists believe that Omicron cases are moderate with almost no symptoms or mild flu-like symptoms.Major cities are at a greater risk of Omicron as international passengers remain the primary source of this variant. Director of Tata Institute for Genetics and Society and former Chief of Council of Scientific and Industrial Research-Centre For Cellular And Molecular Biology, Dr Rakesh Mishra has said the variant will affect major cities because of the travelling involved, though vaccine will offer protection.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/1st-omicron-case-in-delhi-is-tanzania-returnee-new-variant-cases-now-5-in-india-101638684220600.html
05-12-2021||India||Nagaland civilian deaths: What we know so far||Several civilians were mistakenly killed by security forces during an anti-insurgency operation in the Mon district of Nagaland, along with the porous international border with Myanmar, officials said on Sunday.The Indian Army said one of its personnel was killed and several others were injured in the incident, which took place between Oting and Tiru villages in Nagaland. The army, according to news agency PTI, said the incident and its aftermath are "deeply regretted" and the loss of lives is being investigated at the highest level.What happened in Nagaland?PTI cited a local police official in Nagaland as saying the exact number of fatalities is yet to be ascertained as 11 people died on the spot and several others succumbed to their injuries in hospitals in the neighbouring state of Assam.Also watch | Mistaken identity? Probe ordered after forces firing kills civilians during an anti-terror op in Nagaland 
05-12-2021||India||'Moment of great pride': Half of India's adult population fully vaccinated against Covid||India’s vaccination drive has achieved another milestone as 50% of the eligible population are now fully vaccinated against coronavirus disease (Covid-19), the Union health ministry said on Sunday. The vaccination coverage in the country has exceeded 127.61 crores as per the provisional reports released by the ministry of health and family welfare on Sunday morning.“It is a moment of great pride as over 50% of the eligible population are now fully vaccinated,” Union health minister Mansukh Mandviya wrote on Twitter. “We will win the battle against COVID-19 together.”हम होंगे कामयाब ✌🏼Congratulations India 🇮🇳 It is a moment of great pride as over 50% of the eligible population are now fully vaccinated 💉We will win the battle against COVID-19 together ✌🏼#HarGharDastak #SabkoMuftVaccine pic.twitter.com/q4evljMChkWith the administration of 1,04,18,707 Covid-19 vaccine shots in the last 24 hours, India has achieved the latest milestone through 1,32,44,514 sessions.India reports 8,895 new Covid cases, 2,796 deaths as Bihar, Kerala clear 'backlog'The health ministry said in a statement that the government is committed to accelerating the pace and expanding the scope of vaccination throughout the country."The vaccination drive has been ramped up through availability of more vaccines, advance visibility of vaccine availability to States and UTs for enabling better planning by them, and streamlining the vaccine supply chain," it added.The nationwide Covid vaccination started on January 16 with the Covishield vaccine, a version of AstraZeneca's Covid vaccine manufactured by the Serum Institute of India. The coverage entered a new phase of universalisation in June after the second wave of the Covid pandemic claimed thousands of lives and strained the health infrastructure across the country.The vaccination milestone came at a time when many countries including India have reported cases of Omicron variant first detected in South Africa.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/moment-of-great-pride-half-of-india-s-eligible-population-fully-vaccinated-against-covid-101638682641311.html
05-12-2021||India||Nagaland civilian deaths: Army regrets loss of lives, court of inquiry ordered||The Assam Rifles on Sunday expressed regrets over the incident of civilian killing in an Army operation in Nagaland and said the cause of the loss of lives is being probed by a court of inquiry at the highest level, news agency ANI said. Appropriate action will be taken, the Army said,  as reported by PTI.Army sources said that in the encounter that was launched on the basis of dome incredible inputs, the security forces too faced loss. The Security Forces have suffered severe injuries in the operation including one soldier who succumbed to his injuries. "The incident and its aftermath are deeply regretted. Based on credible intelligence of the likely movement of insurgents, a specific op was planned in Tiru, Mon district, Nagaland. Cause of loss of lives being probed by a Court of Inquiry at the highest level and appropriate action will be taken," Assam Rifles said.At least 11 Naga youths, who are believed to be daily wagers, were gunned down by security forces as they were probably mistaken as insurgents. Police said they are investigating whether the incident was a case of mistaken identity or not. The incident triggered massive protests from the local villagers who reportedly set some vehicles belonging to security forces on fire. Chief minister Neiphiu Rio urged people to maintain calm and ordered an SIT probe into the ‘unfortunate’ killing. "Anguished over an unfortunate incident in Nagaland’s Oting, Mon. I express my deepest condolences to the families of those who have lost their lives. A high-level SIT constituted by the State govt will thoroughly probe this incident to ensure justice to the bereaved families," Union home minister Amit Shah tweeted. Nagaland deputy chief minister Yanthungo Patton too urged for peace and tweeted, "Oting's (Mon) disturbing and tragic incident in which civilians were killed will be thoroughly investigated and justice will be served. Condolences to the bereaved families and prayers for the speedy recovery of the injured. In the wake of the tragedy, I urge peace from everyone!"||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/nagaland-civilian-deaths-army-regrets-loss-of-lives-court-of-inquiry-ordered-101638680985281.html
05-12-2021||India||India reports 8,895 new Covid cases, 2,796 deaths as Bihar, Kerala clear 'backlog'||India’s Covid-19 tally rose by 8,895 on Sunday, pushing the overall cases 34,633,255, according to the daily bulletin issued by the Union ministry of health and family welfare. The death toll reached 473,326, as two states – Bihar and Kerala – carried out a reconciliation exercise of its Covid data.As per health ministry, the death toll saw a jump of  2,796 fatalities after 2,426 reconciled deaths by Bihar were adjusted in Sunday's database. Kerala also cleared a backlog of 263 deaths. The active caseload saw a fall and reached 99,155. It currently accounts for less than 1% of total cases with 0.29 per cent, the lowest since March 2020.In the last 24 hours, as many as 6,918 people recuperated from Covid-19, taking the total number of recoveries to 34,060,774.The recovery rate is currently at 98.35 per cent, the data also showed.According to the data, the daily positivity rate (0.73%) has been less than 2 per cent for the last 62 days. The weekly positivity rate (0.80%) has been less than 1 per cent for the last 21 days.Meanwhile, the number of people infected with the Omicron variant of the Covid-19 reached four on Saturday after two more people tested positive for the new strain.One of the Omicron positive patients includes a 33-year-old man from Kalyan-Dombivli municipal area near Mumbai who had returned from South Africa via Dubai. The man, reported to be a marine engineer, was unvaccinated.A 72-year-old NRI man from Gujarat was also found to be infected with the new strain, classified as 'variant of concern' by the World Health Organization (WHO).The country's first two cases of the Omicron variant of Covid-19 were reported on Thursday in Karnataka --in a 66-year-old South African flyer, and a 46-year-old Bengaluru doctor with no travel history. Both men were fully vaccinated.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/india-reports-8-895-fresh-covid-cases-as-confirmed-omicron-infections-rise-to-4-101638679796318.html
05-12-2021||India||Cyclone Jawad: Sea at Digha turns rough, Odisha's Puri witnesses moderate rainfall||The sea at Digha has turned rough due to cyclonic circulation over the Bay of Bengal after Cyclone Jawad weakened into a deep depression as it approaches the Odisha coast near Puri. The Indian Meteorological Department (IMD) said that the deep depression remnant of Cyclone Jawad is likely to further weaken into a depression before reaching the Odisha coast near Puri around Sunday noon.Meanwhile, Puri is witnessing moderate rainfall as the deep depression, according to the latest IMD bulletin, lays about 230 km east-northeast of Visakhapatnam, 130 km south-southwest of Gopalpur, 180 km south-southwest of Puri and 270 km south-southwest of Paradip.#WATCH | The sea at Digha has turned rough due to cyclonic circulation over the Bay of Bengal"Deep Depression remnant of cyclonic storm Jawad to weaken further into a Depression, reach Odisha coast near Puri around noon today," says IMD. pic.twitter.com/kuS6OzqsZXCyclone Jawad impact: Odisha, West Bengal, Assam to receive heavy rainfallThe depression is expected to bring moderate rain and thundershowers with one or two heavy spells of rain in some parts of districts of Ganjam, Puri, Khorda, Jagatsinghpur, Kendrapara, Cuttack during the next three hours, according to the meteorological centre in Bhubaneswar."18 NDRF teams are deployed in West Bengal. We carried out awareness programmes and are ready for evacuations if needed. It is a matter of relief that 'Jawad' will weaken into a deep depression when it reaches Puri beach today," news agency ANI quoted SD Prasad, Assistant Commandant of NDRF in Digha, as saying.The meteorological department in Kolkata has predicted light to moderate rainfall over North and South 24 Parganas, Purba and Paschim Medinipur, Jhargram, Howrah, Hooghly districts. Light to moderate rains is also likely in many other parts of the rest of the districts in Gangetic West Bengal, according to the Met department.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/cyclone-jawad-sea-at-digha-turns-rough-odisha-s-puri-witness-moderate-rainfall-101638679118211.html
05-12-2021||India||Why Omicron is likely to affect major Indian cities, ex-CSIR scientist explains||Omicron, the new variant of Covid, will primarily affect the major cities in India because people are travelling, director of Tata Institute for Genetics and Society and former Chief of Council of Scientific and Industrial Research-Centre For Cellular And Molecular Biology, Dr Rakesh Mishra, told news agency ANI in an exclusive interview.Dr Mishra said vaccines, including Indian vaccines, will remain effective against this variant, but the concern is the high rate of spreading. Since most Omicron cases are asymptomatic, there is a fear that the variant will be spreading faster than Delta as people will ignore this as a common cold.India detects third Omicron case. What we know so far"We have detected two and a few more and all that in the past few days, but how many are we sequencing? If we sequence 100 per cent, then you can be sure that how many people have this or not. Since we cannot sequence all, we can't even list all. Many people are believed to be asymptomatic and spreading. So that is the problem of this infection that most people 70-80 per cent will not have any symptoms when there is spreading and confusion with the common cold. Symptoms are less severe. So people will mistake it as a common cold because there is no smell loss or oxygen problem. The infection will be there in all major cities where people have been travelling…" he told ANI.India has four confirmed cases of the Omicron variant so far. Out of these cases, three have come from outside. The first Omicron case was a 66-year-old South African national who has left India after testing Covid negative. A 72-year-old NRI who has been living in Zimbabwe for many years and has now come to Gujarat's Jamnagar to meet his father-in-law has tested positive for Omicron. The 33-year-old unvaccinated marine engineer has also come from South Africa. Only the 46-year-old Bengaluru doctor, the second Omicron case of India, did not have any travel history.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/why-omicron-is-likely-to-affect-major-indian-cities-ex-csir-scientist-explains-101638677458101.html
05-12-2021||India||SIT to probe 'unfortunate' killing of civilians in Nagaland, says CM; ‘Anguished’, tweets Amit Shah||Nagaland chief minister Neiphiu Rio on Sunday condemned the killing of the civilians between Oting and Tiru village of Mon district in which at least11 civilians were reportedly killed and two were injured. A high-level SIT will investigate the encounter and justice will be delivered as per the law o the land. "Appeal for peace from all sections," the chief minister tweeted on Sunday.The incident took place near the Myanmar border. Anguished over an unfortunate incident in Nagaland’s Oting, Mon. I express my deepest condolences to the families of those who have lost their lives. A high-level SIT constituted by the State govt will thoroughly probe this incident to ensure justice to the bereaved families.Union home minister Amit Shah expressed condolences to the families of those who have lost their lives. "Anguished over an unfortunate incident in Nagaland’s Oting, Mon. I express my deepest condolences to the families of those who have lost their lives. A high-level SIT constituted by the State govt will thoroughly probe this incident to ensure justice to the bereaved families," the home minister tweeted. The unfortunate incident leading to killing of civilians at Oting, Mon is highly condemnable.Condolences to the bereaved families & speedy recovery of those injured. High level SIT will investigate & justice delivered as per the law of the land.Appeal for peace from all sectionsAccording to reports, the casualty includes daily wagers who were returning from Tiru in a pick-up truck which allegedly came under the fire of the army personnel who were in an anti-terror operation. Receiving inputs regarding teh movement of a faction of NSCN (K), the army reportedly launched an operation which led to an encounter and the lorry carrying the daily wagers was believed to have caught in between.The death of the civilians triggered unrest in the area after villagers started protesting. According to reports, some security vehicles were set on fire by angry villagers while the police had to fire to bring the mob under control.Assam Rifles officials said the security forces too have suffered injuries in the operation, including one fatality. Regretting the loss of lives, the Assam Rifles said a specific operation was plainned in Tiry based on the credible intelligence of a likely movement of insurgents. "Cause of loss of lives is being probed by a Court of Inquiry at highest level and appropriate action will be taken," the Assam Rifles said, as reported by ANI.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/civilians-killing-in-nagaland-unfortunate-sit-will-probe-says-cm-101638675690569.html
05-12-2021||India||News updates from HT: West condemns Taliban over summary killings in Afghanistan, and all the latest news||Here are today’s top news, analysis and opinion. Know all about the latest news and other news updates from Hindustan Times.West hits out at Taliban over ‘summary killings’, enforced disappearances in AfghanistanThe United States and other western nations have hit out at the Taliban over reported ‘summary killings’ and enforced disappearances of former members of the Afghan security forces. Read more…After favouring booster dose for 40+, INSACOG says ‘more experiments required’Amid the Omicron scare and a rising demand for booster doses of the Covid-19 vaccine, the country's top genome sequencing body on Saturday went back on its recommendation for booster shots for people above 40 years and said many more scientific experiments are required to assess its impact. Read more…'This has been poorest of all what I have seen in last 4-5 years': Disappointed Ganguly rates India's T20 WC performanceBCCI president Sourav Ganguly opened up on India's performance in the 2021 T20 World Cup for the first time since their early exit at the tournament where Australia had emerged as champions, calling it the team's worst performance at an ICC event in the last five years. Read more…Did you know Ranbir Kapoor and Deepika Padukone's Yeh Jawani Hai Deewani featured Aayush Sharma too?It has been eight years since Yeh Jawaani Hai Deewani released. While the film starred Deepika Padukone, Ranbir Kapoor, Aditya Roy Kapoor and Kalki Koechlin in the lead, it has now been revealed that Salman Khan's brother-in-law, actor Aayush Sharma was also a part of the film. Read more…Janhvi Kapoor is a Paramsundari in floral sheer saree and sleeveless white braletteBollywood's rising star and a Gen-Z fashionista Janhvi Kapoor attended the Hindustan Times Leadership Summit on Saturday with Anil Kapoor. The star is always impeccably dressed, no matter the occasion, and she looked incredible for this event too. Janhvi wore a simple and elegant sheer floral saree that mixed formal and playful vibes to create one of the most breathtaking looks ever served by the actor. See all pics||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/news-updates-from-ht-west-condemns-taliban-over-summary-killings-in-afghanistan-and-all-the-latest-news-101638672822015.html
05-12-2021||India||Area with 3 cases cluster, jabs must for parents: 5 new Karnataka Omicron rules||With two confirmed cases of Omicron in Karnataka, including one South African traveller who has already left the country, the Karnataka government has placed several restrictions in the state. The state has received many international travellers in the last few days the samples of which have been sent for genome sequencing. Bypassing lockdown, the government has mandated full vaccination for many activities, like visiting malls etc.Here are new restrictions imposed in the state:1. Instead of 10 cases, a Covid cluster will be declared if there are three cases in an area.2. If an apartment has been declared a cluster, no outsider will be allowed to enter the apartment.3. Full vaccination is mandatory for parents of the students who are attending physical classes.4. Full vaccination has also been made mandatory to visit any apartment complex.5. If residential associations have to conduct meetings, they should only call people who have taken two doses of the vaccines.Karnataka has been the first state in India to have reported two confirmed Omicron cases. Chief minister Basavaraj Bommai said the infection is believed to be fast-spreading, but the effect will not be severe. The government has already made full vaccination mandatory for visiting shopping malls, for employees working in hotels, restaurants, cinemas, swimming pools, public libraries, zoos and botanical gardens.The state has seen several Covid clusters appearing in educational institutions for which the government has urged all institutions to cancel any event as of now.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/area-with-3-cases-cluster-jabs-must-for-parents-5-new-karnataka-omicron-rules-101638674079389.html
05-12-2021||India||After favouring booster dose for 40+, INSACOG says ‘more experiments required’||Amid the Omicron scare and a rising demand for booster doses of the Covid-19 vaccine, the country's top genome sequencing body on Saturday went back on its recommendation for booster shots for people above 40 years and said many more scientific experiments are required to assess its impact.In its latest health bulletin, the Indian SARS-CoV-2 Consortium on Genomics (INSACOG) said that the mention of the booster dose was merely a “discussion about the potential role of additional dose of Covid-19 vaccines in high-risk populations” and the recommendation was not for the India's immunisation programme,In its previous bulletin dated November 29, the INSACOG had said that a booster dose for those 40 years of age and over, first targeting the most high-risk / high-exposure “may be considered”."Many more scientific experiments are needed to assess the impacts of booster dose, which are being guided and monitored by National Technical Advisory Group on Immunization (NTAGI) and National Expert Group on Vaccine Administration for COVID-19 (NEGVAC),” said the INSACOG.It also made it clear that the recommendations and suggestions regarding vaccines, schedule, and roll-out came under the expressed mandate of NTAGI and NEGVAC.INSACOG's statement comes a day after Union health minister Mansukh Mandaviya told the Lok Sabha during the Parliament Winter Session that a decision on booster doses and vaccines for kids would be taken on the basis of scientific advice. He said that the focus of the vaccination drive would be to expand the coverage of the second dose.During the debate in the Lok Sabha on the Covid pandemic, several lawmakers had suggested a booster dose of Covid-19 vaccines for the elderly, immunocompromised and health workers who work in high-risk environments.Notably, NTAGI is expected to meet next week to assess about the need for a booster jab – whether there is adequate data on waning immunity, where the effects of the vaccine wear off over a period of time.NITI Aayog member (health) Dr V K Paul had also said that despite the new challenge of Omicron variant, a full vaccination with two doses remained the most critical tool against Covid-19.Meanwhile, the INSACOG said that genomic surveillance will be critical for the early detection of the presence of Omicron variant, to enable necessary public health measures.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/after-favouring-booster-dose-for-40-insacog-says-more-experiments-required-101638670265501.html
05-12-2021||India||Neeraj Chopra trains kid at school in Ahmedabad, PM Modi says ‘Great moments!’||Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Sunday tweeted some great moments from Tokyo Olympics gold medalist Neeraj Chopra training future champions at a school in Ahmedabad, Gujarat. In a series of tweets, PM Modi lauded the javelin thrower for spending time with students and motivating them on sports and fitness.“This is a great initiative by @Neeraj_chopra1, to go among young students and motivate them on sports and fitness. Such efforts will increase curiosity towards sports and exercising,” the prime minister tweeted.Olympian Neeraj Chopra was at Sanskardham School the previous day where he interacted with students and played different sports with them, including javelin throw, volleyball and archery. He also spoke to students about the importance of exercise and diet in fitness. In one of the videos tweeted by the school, the ‘golden boy’ of India can be seen training and motivating a kid to throw a javelin.“Great moments!” PM Modi wrote on Twitter mentioning the video.The prime minister also quoted tweeted a thread by DD News in which Neeraj Chopra can be seen participating in various activities as he enthrals students from 75 schools at Sanskardham in Ahmedabad. Chopra had an exercise session with the school children and shared valuable tips with them.This thread will make you happy. Let us keep up the momentum and inspire our youth to shine on the games field. https://t.co/1lWgRitoZPThe Olympian drew applause from the crowd when he responded to a question regarding his favourite dish. Chopra said he likes different kinds of fruits and described how he liked to cook vegetable biryani, without making it spicy, and have it with curd. But the athlete stressed the importance of controlling the foodie within himself as it will impact his javelin throw.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/pm-modi-shares-videos-of-olympian-neeraj-chopra-says-will-make-you-happy-101638669432205.html
05-12-2021||India||‘Omicron variant has higher transmissibility rate': Maharashtra health minister||Maharashtra health minister Rajesh Tope has said that the latest mutation of coronavirus (Omicron), which was first detected in South Africa, has a higher rate of transmissibility. However, the symptoms caused by it remain mild. “The Omicron variant of coronavirus has a higher transmissibility rate but its symptoms are mild, " he said on Saturday.He also claimed that the Omicron variant has not increased the fatality rate so far. "No one in South Africa, infected with the Omicron variant, has been put on oxygen. It has not increased the fatality rate so far,” the minister said.Tope appealed to people to not panic over the emergence of the new variant and asked people to continue to follow face masks and social distancing mandates. He also asked unvaccinated people to get vaccinated.The statement comes after a 33-year-old man from Kalyan-Dombivli municipal area near Mumbai who had returned from South Africa via Dubai, was confirmed to be infected with Omicron variant of the coronavirus, on Saturday. The man, reported to be a marine engineer, was unvaccinated.On Saturday, a 72-year-old NRI man from Gujarat was also found to be infected with the new strain. As of now, four people in total have tested positive for the Omicron.The country's first two cases of the Omicron variant of Covid-19 were reported on Thursday in Karnataka --in a 66-year-old South African flyer, and a 46-year-old Bengaluru doctor with no travel history. Both men were fully vaccinated.The Omicron strain has been classified as a 'variant of concern' by the World Health Organization (WHO).||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/omicron-variant-has-higher-transmissibility-rate-maharashtra-health-minister-101638668565019.html
05-12-2021||India||Jacqueline Fernandez was gifted ₹50 lakh horse, ₹9 lakh cat by conman Sukesh: Reports||The Enforcement Directorate has filed a 7,000-page chargesheet against alleged conman Sukesh Chandrashekhar, his wife actor Leena Maria Paul and six others in a ₹200 crore money laundering case. According to the chargesheet, as quoted by reports, Chandrashekhar revealed during the interrogation that he had gifted a horse worth ₹52 lakh and a Persian cat worth ₹9 lakh to actor Jacqueline Fernandez.The name of actor Nora Fatehi has also been mentioned in the chargesheet as the actor was gifted an expensive car by the conman. Both the actors have already been questioned by the ED.Earlier, Nora Fatehi issued a statement claiming that she was not part of any money laundering activity. “Nora Fatehi has been the victim around the case and being a witness, she is co-operating and helping the officers in the investigation. We would like to make it very clear that she has not been a part of any money laundering activity, she does not know or have any personal connection with the accused and has been called by the ED to strictly help with the investigation,” the statement said.Delhi: 5 Rohini jail officers arrested for helping conman Sukesh ChandrashekharReports said Nora Fatehi attended an event after being invited by Sukesh Chandrasekhar's wife Leena Maria Paul and was given the expensive car at the event as a gift.The Delhi Police's Economic Offences Wing in August registered an FIR against Chandrasekhar for allegedly duping the spouses of former promoters of Ranbaxy, Shivinder Singh, and Malvinder Singh, of ₹200 crore besides ongoing investigations against him in several cases across the country. The ED filed its complaint based on a police FIR. In the FIR, it was alleged that a man posed as a home ministry official promised to help them with the case of their husbands, arrested in 2019 for allegedly causing losses to the tune of over ₹2,000 crore to Religare Finvest Ltd.In the interrogation, Sukesh claimed that he bribed Tihar jail staff with crores of rupees to run his extortion racket from the jail. Five senior jail officials were arrested for aiding Chandrasekhar to run the extortion racket.The ED had earlier told the court that money was being moved at Chandrashekhar's wife Paul's instructions. During the investigation, searches were conducted at various places linked to Chandrashekar and his associates in which 6 high-end vehicles were seized. The cars were either in the name of firms of Paul or in the name of third parties. The Delhi Police had alleged that Paul and Chandrashekhar along with others used Hawala routes, created shell companies to park the money earned from proceeds of crime.(With agency inputs)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/jacqueline-fernandez-was-gifted-rs-50-lakh-horse-rs-9-lakh-cat-by-conman-sukesh-reports-101638666023262.html
05-12-2021||India||4 Omicron cases in India: What their age, travel and vaccination history reveal||India now has four confirmed cases of Omicron variant while several samples have been sent for genome sequencing and the results are awaited. Out of the four cases, three have confirmed sources of how the infection was contracted as they came from "at-risk" countries. All the Omicron-infected individuals are males and there is no uniform age pattern -- two elderly, two middle-aged. One of the patients was not vaccinated as well. What has remained common in all these cases is that all of them have mild or no symptoms. Karnataka1. The first Omicron case of India was a 66-year-old South African national who has left India. His primary and secondary contacts have tested negative.2. The SA national arrived at Bengaluru on November 20 and was tested at the airport.3. As he tested positive, a government doctor visited him at the hospital where he was staying and advised him to remain in quarantine. His sample was again taken and sent for genome sequencing. By the time, the genome sequencing result came and it was confirmed that he was affected by the Omicron variant, he had left the country.4. On November 23, he got tested again at a private testing facility where his result was negative. On November 27, he left for Dubai.Karnataka doctor with Omicron attended international medical conference: Reports5. The South African national was vaccinated. The Karnataka government has ordered a probe into the negative test report, which came within days after he tested positive.2nd Omicron case in Karnataka1. The 2nd Omicron case of India was also identified in Karnataka. A 46-year-old doctor with no international travel history tested positive for the variant.2. The doctor, an anesthesiologist, reported mild symptoms on November 21 and he was tested. Since his report had a low CT value indicating a very high viral load, his sample was sent for genome sequencing and Omicron was confirmed.3. The doctor was vaccinated against Covid in February and reports said his antibody levels were low. This was found out in an antibody test that the hospital where he works conducted.4. Since he did not travel to any foreign country, it is not yet known from where he got infected by Omicron. According to reports, he attended an international medical conference on November 20 which was attended by many foreign delegates. But it might be possible that he had contracted the virus before attending the conference.Gujarat1. The third Omicron case of India is a 72-year-old man who arrived at Gujarat's Jamnagar from Zimbabwe.2. He arrived on November 28 and tested positive for the new Omicron variant on December 2. He was fully vaccinated.3. As far as the symptoms are concerned, the 72-year-old man had a sore throat and weakness.4. The man has been living in Zimbabwe for many years and arrived in Gujarat to meet his father-in-lawMaharashtra1. The man who has been found to be infected with the Omicron variant is a 33-year-old marine engineer.2. He was not vaccinated as he was on the ship since April, a Kalyan Dombivili Municipal Corporation official has said.3. He remained on the ship till November end and when his shop arrived in South Africa, he was allowed to return to the country.4. Now, he has been kept at a Covid centre in Kalyan for precaution. He got a mild fever on November 24.5. According to civic officials, all those his contacts, primary and secondary, tested negative.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/4-omicron-cases-in-india-what-their-age-travel-and-vaccination-history-reveal-101638663401138.html
05-12-2021||India||Cyclone Jawad impact: Odisha, West Bengal, Assam to receive heavy rainfall||While Cyclone Jawad weakening into a deep depression brought relief for coastal areas of Odisha, northern Andhra Pradesh and West Bengal, the system is expected to cause heavy rainfall at isolated places in the three impacted states. The Indian Meteorological Department (IMD) said in its bulletin on Saturday that Cyclone Jawad weakened into a deep depression as it changed its course and neared the coast of Odisha.The Met department said the remnant of the cyclonic storm lay centred over westcentral Bay of Bengal, about 200km south of Gopalpur at 11.30pm on December 4. The system is likely to move north-northeastwards and further weaken into a depression by Sunday morning, reaching Odisha coast near Puri around noon the same day.According to the IMD bulletin, the depression is likely to continue to move north-northeastwards along Odisha coast towards the West Bengal coast and weaken into a well-marked low-pressure area during the subsequent 24 hours.Not just Bengal and Odisha, cyclone Jawad to cause rainfall in 10 more statesThe Met department has predicted heavy to very heavy rainfall likely at isolated places in Mayurbhanj, Balasore, Bhadrak, Kendrapada, and Jagatsinghpur districts for the next 24 hours on Sunday. It has also issued a red alert at some places in Puri and Jagatsinghpur districts due to likely heavy to very heavy rainfall triggered by the depression.Meanwhile, an orange warning has been issued for some places in Balasore, Bhadrak Kendrapada, Jajpur, Cuttack, Khordha, Ganjam and Gajapati districts till 8.30am on Sunday.On Sunday, heavy to very heavy rainfall is likely at isolated places over Gangetic West Bengal and north Odisha. Isolated places over Assam, Meghalaya and Tripura is expected to receive heavy rainfall on Sunday and Monday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/heavy-rainfall-likely-in-these-odisha-districts-as-cyclone-jawad-weakens-into-deep-depression-101638661456186.html
05-12-2021||India||Don’t let Covid 3rd wave fear ruin holiday plans, follow protocol: Minister||PANAJI: Union tourism minister G Kishan Reddy on Saturday asked tourists not to cancel their holiday plans over fears of third coronvirus wave, saying people should instead focus on maintaining precautionary protocol and vaccination.Reddy made the statement during his visit to Goa where tourism is acknowledged as the backbone of the Goan economy, with 40% of the population directly or indirectly dependent on it.“The tourism sector not just in India, but across the world was affected... Domestic tourism is picking up now and people are travelling to destinations in a big number. But today, there is some talk that there may be a third wave. But I request people, whether the third wave comes or not, everyone (with travel plans) should follow corona protocol and travel to tourist destinations,” Reddy said at a Press conference during his visit on Saturday.“Those who are getting vaccinations should get completely vaccinated with two doses of Covid-19 vaccine. This will help to revive the tourism sector at a much greater speed. States and UTs are requested to ensure maximum vaccination of beneficiaries in cities as well as villages,” he stated.“On an international level, we are studying the situation the world over through our embassies. There is information about the impending third wave in some countries. In those countries, we have focussed on tourists from those countries and have also increased monitoring. I am fully confident that we can control the third wave. Our efforts are that the third wave does not hit India,” he added.The Union minister was in the state to inaugurate a slew of tourist facilities funded via the Union government including at Colva beach, Old Goa, Aguada in North Goa among others. The tourism ministry later issued a clarification on the minister’s statement and reiterated to to the official statement issued on the Press conference. “Shri Reddy also cautioned the citizens to follow Covid protocols as tourism is seeing steady growth in the country after the first year of the pandemic. “Domestic tourism is seeing and upward trend in the country. Currently since a third wave of Covid-19 is being suspected across the world, I request people to strictly adhere to Covid protocol during their visits to tourist destinations,” he (minister) stated, according to the statement.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/dont-let-covid-3rd-wave-fear-ruin-holiday-plans-follow-protocol-minister-101638644657822.html
05-12-2021||India||HT THIS DAY: December 5, 1971 — Counter-offensive is under way; crushing blow dealt on Pak war machine||New Delhi- The Indian Air Force, the Army and the Navy delivered a stunning blow to Pakistan’s aggressive military machine on the first day of the war between the two countries by destroying 33 Pakistan Air Force planes and 12 Patron tanks and bombarding 10 air bases as also the Bangla Desh ports of Chittagong and Cox’s Bazar In retaliatory raids beginning early this morning, IAF planes bombed eight air bases in West Pakistan-Chanderi, Sarkot, Sargodhs, Murid, Mianwali, Masrur (Karachi), Risalwala (near Islamabad) and Changa Manga (near Lahore) besides Dacca and Jessore in Bangla Desh. The Indian Force lost a total of 11 aircraft, six in West Pakistan and five over Bangla Desh. This, according to a Defence Ministry spokesman, is “moderate” considering that the IAF attached heavily defended targets in daylight. No IAF aircraft was lost on the ground. The Pakistani day-light attacks on our air fields have been comparatively light and the damage caused to installations and the runways has been negligible. All our airports are operational whereas the bulk of the Pakistan Air Force in Bangla Desh has been “decimated” with only two or three aircraft left. The Indian Navy, whose Eastern and Western Fleet, were ordered to seek and destroy all enemy warships and to cut the maritime line of communications between West Pakistan and Bangla Desh, struck at Cox’s Bazar destroying the airfield, Power house and wireless stations there. Its carrier-borne aircraft attacked Chittagong and demolished some port installations, a hangar and fuel dumps besides sinking two gunboats and damaging two Pakistani merchant ships in the harbour. Invoking the contraband control, the Indian Navy intercepted and seized a Pakistani merchant ship “Pasni” which was on its way to Karachi and ordered it to proceed to Cochin. The Indian Army which marched into Bangla Desh at several points to act in concert with the Mukti Bahini, made several significant gains by capturing Shamshernagar including the airfield in the Tripura and Cachar sector as well as Thakurgaon, Darsana and Gazipur. It is engaged in fierce fighting near Akhaura and Jessore. In the Western sector, the enemy supported by armour mounted massive attacks on Indian positions in Chhamb sad Hussainwala, but all the attacks were repulsed with heavy losses to the invaders. Pakistan lost six Patton tanks in Chhamb and another six near Hunssainwala. Radio Pakistan reports that Chhamb, Fazilka and Khem Karan had been captured by Pakistani troops were described as “absolutely false” by a Defence Ministry spokesman here. Indian troops captured a Pakistan picket five miles south-east of Tithwal and a hill feature between URI and Hajipir in Kashmir. The Indian Army has taken 61 Pakistani prisoners - 19 In Western sector sad 42 In Bangla Desh near Phulbari. The spokesman said that -after Pakistan’s wanton aggression on India “no holds are barred” and the Indian Security Forces would take whatever action they thought fit to meet any threat to the country’s territorial integrity. The Defence Minister, Mr Jagjivan Ram, told Parliament that Pakistan had thrust war upon India. Pakistan’s objective of inflicting substantial damage through a pre-meditated preemptive attack had been frustrated. Referring to the fighting in the Ferozepore sector, he said that all Pakistani attacks have been repulsed. “We have also had casualties and lost some ground.” Of the 33 Pakistani aircraft destroyed, 19 were in the western sector and 14 in Bangla Desh. So far Pakistan has lost 19 Sabre jets and Mig-19’s. five B-57 medium bombers, three Mirages - regarded as the pride of Pakistan’s Air Force - two F-104 Star Fighters, three light aircraft and one transport aircraft. Nine of the 19 aircraft in the western sector were destroyed in a daring day-light raid by IAF Hunters on Masrur airfield near Karachi. These included one B-57 bomber, and eight Sabre jets and Chinese supplied Mig-19 aircraft. All the IAF Hunters returned to their bases. The other 10 aircraft, either shot down or destroyed on the ground, were four B-57 bombers, three Mirage III-E fighter bombers, two F-10$ Star Fighters and one F 86 Sabre jet. In the Eastern sector of the 14 PAF aircraft destroyed. 10 were Sabres, three light aircraft and one transport plane. The transport plane was set ablaze by the attacking IAF planes on the airfields. These enemy losses are in addition to the three Sabre lets shot down over Boyra by Gnats last week. The Indian aircraft lost included two Hunters, one HF-24 and one Su-7. The crew of the Indian aircraft reported that they have achieved good results. They hit a number of Pakistani aircraft on the ground and set petrol tanks ablaze. In retaliation against the raid on the Amritsar radar station-which has been only slightly damaged but is fully operational-the IAF damaged the Pakistan radar station near Badin (Kutch). UNI, PTI add: Fierce fighting was raging around several Pakistani pickets in the Ferozepore and Gurdaspur sectors today and the enemy had suffered heavy losses in men and material, official sources said in Jullundur. All attacks by the enemy had been repulsed by the BSF and | regular troops fighting shoulder to shoulder to defend the country’s borders. In the Amritsar sector, while a bitter battle was on near the Indian post of Rania. Pakistani positions along Hudiara Drain had been under seige since last night. Pakistan, which attacked the Indian positions around the Hussainiwala, Ullaka, Rajoke and Khanpur areas of the Ferozepore sector last night in brigade strength, had Introduced a fair sprinkling of its armour to influence the results of the fighting. Indian pickets all along the Punjab-West Pakistan border from Sulaimanki, near Fazilka to Khem Karan, Dera Baba Nanak and other places were subjected to heavy shelling by medium and heavy artillery used for providing cover to the enemy troops attempting to intrude into Indian territory. The Pakistanis also shelled Indian positions in Jhangar and Moti, west and north-west of Attari by artillery fire. In Pathankot, they shelled the Lasian area east of Shakargarh. Large concentration had been reported at Tur. The main attack was in the Poonch and Attari areas. The attacks have been repulsed.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/htthisday-december-5-1971-counter-offensive-is-under-way-crushing-blow-dealt-on-pak-war-machine-101638644538457.html
05-12-2021||India||Veteran Kannada film actor S Shivaram dies at 83, to get state funeral||Veteran Kannada actor S Shivaram, whose stint in the film industry spans more than six decades, died at a private hospital here on Saturday. He was 83.Speaking to reporters outside the hospital, his son S Lakshmish said, “My father Shivaram is no more with us. Doctors at Prashant Hospital had done their best to help him recover but unfortunately destiny had its plan. We have to accept it.” Chief Minister Basavaraj Bommai, who mourned his demise, said the last rites will be performed on Sunday with full state honours.Born on January 28, 1938 in a Tamil Brahmin family, Shivaram, popularly known as Shivaramanna, had been a versatile actor who played various roles ranging from hero to supporting character in over 60 movies, besides directing and producing films.He started his acting stint with ‘Beratha Jeeva’ in 1965 but made a mark with the movie ‘Dudde Doddappa’ and ‘Lagna Patrike’.He was admired for his roles in ‘Naagarahavu’, ‘Nanobba Kalla’, ‘Yajamana’, ‘Apthamitra’ and ‘Hombisilu’.The veteran filmmaker launched Rashi Brothers by teaming up with his sibling S Ramanathan and gave some hit movies such as ‘Gejje Pooje’ and ‘Upasane’.Shivaram was active in the field and recently did the movie ‘Snehitha’.Hearing about the demise, Chief Minister Basavaraj Bommai visited Thyagarajanagar and offered floral tributes to the departed soul.Speaking to media persons after paying his last respects to Shivaram, he said the last rites would be held on Sunday with full state honours.“Shivaram had carved a niche for himself in the world of art. He had breathed life into every character he played as an actor. Most of his movies notched big success,” Bommai said. He also recalled that the artiste had bagged the national award as the producer of ‘Upasane’. “Shivaram’s contribution to Kannada film industry is immense. He has left his stamp as assistant director, director, producer and actor in his six decade long professional life in Kannada filmdom. He made a mark as an actor in films like Sharapanjara, Shubhamangala, Nagarahavu directed by Puttanna Kanagal,” Bommai recalled.Mourning his death, former Chief Minister B S Yediyurappa tweeted, “I am deeply saddened by the news that the veteran actor of Kannada cinema is no more. He was also a director and producer. He had also acted in several television serials.” Yediyurappa said the state has lost a senior artiste in Shivaram’s death.Recalling his several meetings with Shivaram, Yediyurappa prayed for the departed soul to rest in peace.Former India cricket captain and leg spinner Anil Kumble too lamented the demise.He tweeted, “Deeply saddened by the passing of Shivaram Anna. He was an icon, an institution and leaves behind a rich legacy. Huge loss to the Kannada film industry. Heartfelt condolences to his family, friends and well wishers.” Former chief ministers Siddaramaiah, H D Kumaraswamy and many Karnataka ministers, former ministers and people from the Kannada film industry mourned his death.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/veteran-kannada-film-actor-s-shivaram-dies-at-83-to-get-state-funeral-101638644117956.html
05-12-2021||India||Jawad to weaken before hitting Puri, but states prepare for heavy rainfall||Cyclone Jawad, the first cyclonic storm to move towards the Odisha coast in December in 130 years, is likely to weaken before reaching Puri on Sunday noon, according to the India Meteorological Department.Jawad was over west central Bay of Bengal on Saturday, clocking wind speeds of 70 to 80 kmph, gusting to 90 kmph, when its intensity started weakening due to the system’s interaction with the land surface. It is likely to move northwards and then north-northeastwards along Odisha’s coast, weakening gradually.Meanwhile, a fresh wet spell is likely to impact western Himalayas and northwest India from Saturday to Monday, the weather bureau said on Saturday.On Saturday afternoon, Jawad was about 210km east-southeast of Vishakhapatnam (Andhra Pradesh), 320 km south of Gopalpur (Odisha), 390 km south-southwest of Puri (Odisha) and 470 km south-southwest of Paradip (Odisha). By evening, it had weakened in to a deep depression (55 to 65 kmph gusting to 75 kmph). It is likely to move northwards on Saturday and then north-northeastwards along the coast, weakening gradually, and reaching near Puri on Sunday around noon depression. It is expected to weaken further and continue to move north-northeastwards along the Odisha coast towards West Bengal.“Heavy and widespread rain has started over parts of Odisha and Andhra Pradesh. By the time it (Jawad) reaches Puri, it is likely to weaken in to a depression,” said Sunitha Devi, head of the cyclones department at the weather office. “Though cyclones have moved towards Tamil Nadu and Andhra Pradesh in December in the past, Jawad is the first December cyclone in 130 years to have a track towards Odisha coast.”Extremely heavy rain is expected over Odisha on Saturday, and very heavy rain over West Bengal and Odisha on Sunday.Meanwhile, a western disturbance is expected to affect northwest India on Sunday. It would lead to thunderstorms accompanied by rain and snow over Jammu & Kashmir, Ladakh, Himachal Pradesh and Uttarakhand till December 6. Isolated, light rainfall is likely over Punjab, Haryana, Chandigarh, Delhi on Sunday., the weather bureau predicted.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/cyclone-jawad-to-weaken-before-hitting-puri-but-states-prepare-for-heavy-rainfall-101638643639289.html
05-12-2021||India||Rajnath Singh urges MSMEs to invest in defence sector||India has exported defence items worth more than ₹38,000 crore in the past seven years and the country hopes to become an overall net exporter soon, Defence Minister Rajnath Singh said on Saturday.“We have an estimated ₹85,000 crore industry of aerospace and defence. The contribution of the private sector in this has increased to ₹18,000 crore,” he said in his speech at the MSME conclave of the Society of Indian Defence Manufacturers (SIDM).Singh urged the MSMEs to invest more in research and development as it would help strengthen the nation’s security. “You should bring new technologies, new products. You should not think that just because of your small, you cannot do great innovation,” he added.Around 12,000 MSMEs have joined the defence industry due to the government’s initiatives, he added. “Defence exports from India during the last seven years have been of more than ₹38,000 crore due to the government’s initiatives,” he noted. Innovation, research and development and the number of startups have increased in the defence industry due to these initiatives, Singh said.Reiterating the government’s focus on encouraging exports, the minister expressed hopes that India will soon become a net exporter from a net importer. “The government aims to achieve the export target of ₹35,000 crore by 2024-25. Presently, India is exporting defence equipment to around 70 countries. According to Stockholm International Peace Research Institute 2020 report, India is in the list of top 25 countries in defence exports,” he said.The Indian armed forces have completely supported the self-reliance initiative of the government, he stated.“Therefore, the number of contracts given to indigenous defence industry has increased,” he said.Singh accepted that the big companies have a major role to play in defence manufacturing but the reality is that the work of numerous small companies is hidden behind that of big companies.“Big defence platforms are assembled from numerous small parts and most of them are provided by the MSMEs,” he noted.“Therefore, I believe that the term ‘industry’ really means MSMEs as they are not only responsible for economic activities but also for societal progress,” he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/rajnath-singh-urges-msmes-to-invest-in-defence-sector-101638643457897.html
05-12-2021||India||President Kovind hails PAC for ensuring accountability at centenary event||The Public Accounts Committee (PAC), Parliament’s audit watchdog, has ensured more paise out of every rupee of public spending reach the people, President Ram Nath Kovind said on Saturday.Parliamentary committees, especially the PAC, are crucial to ensure “administrative accountability of the executive towards the legislature,” the President said.The PAC, which had been chaired by stalwarts such as Atal Bihari Vajpayee, Murali Manohar Joshi and PV Narsimha Rao, is now led by Congress leader Adhir Chowdhury.“If more paise out of every rupee coming from honest taxpayers are reaching those in need, and also for nation-building initiatives, the PAC and its members have played a large role in the process,” Kovind said in his speech at the centenary celebrations of the PAC in the Central Hall of Parliament.Former Prime Minister Rajiv Gandhi had once said that out of every rupee, only 16 paise goes to the people, Vice President Venkaiah Naidu recalled at the event.“The Public Accounts Committee, along with the Public Estimates Committee and the Public Undertakings Committee constitute the triad of permanent vigilance over a wide range of governmental activities and the attendant expenditure,” Naidu said.Without these panels, “parliamentary democracy would be rendered incomplete,” Kovind said. His address assume importance as opposition parties have accused the government in the past two years of trying to push legislation bypassing the review of House panels.While the President maintained that at the heart of PAC’s functioning is “this aspect of holding the executive to account on behalf of the people”, Naidu suggested the panel should be redesignated as Public Accounts and Audit Committee (PA&AC).It should reinvent itself to more effectively “handle the complexity of scrutinizing the accounts and audit of expenditure through capacity building, accessing the inputs of experts and information exchanges,” the Vice President said.Parliamentary committees have contributed significantly in making the government accountable and transparent to the people, Lok Sabha Speaker Om Birla said. “In a developing country like India, the constructive suggestions of PAC not only promoted the optimal use of financial resources, but also helped in improving the policies and programs of the government,” Birla said.PAC, working on non-party lines, contributes towards maintaining the standard of efficiency and financial propriety in the running of the administration, PAC chairman Adhir Ranjan Chowdhury said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/president-ram-nath-kovind-hails-pac-for-ensuring-accountability-at-centenary-event-101638643341402.html
05-12-2021||India||Vaccination mandatory to visit apartments, says Karnataka CM||Chief minister Basavaraj Bommai on Saturday announced that only those with two coronavirus vaccine doses will be allowed to enter apartment complexes as part of safety protocols following detection of Omicron variant of Covid-19 in the state. Similarly, the government has told residential associations to conduct meetings only with people who have taken two doses of the vaccine. After two Omicron cases detected in the state, the government has changed protocols to declare any place with three or more cases of Covid-19 as a cluster. As per the government guidelines, the earlier the limit was 10 cases. As for cluster management, two types of clusters had been planned. One for places such as schools, colleges and hostels, and other for apartment complexes in Bengaluru where cases have been reported. Everyone in the clusters would be tested and treated. The double dose had been made mandatory for parents of the students who attend classes off-line mode, testing is compulsory for all the inmates and staff of student hostels. Testing has been made mandatory for those with comorbidities, too. Officials had been instructed to make foolproof measures, Bommai said. “Preliminary report on Omicron cases had been received. The health department had been instructed to obtain comprehensive reports and treatment protocols being followed in various countries. According to available information, at present, the protocol being followed for the Delta variant is being followed for Omicron too. I want a scientific system to be followed,” said the chief minister. He further said expert opinion is that Omicron was a fast-spreading variant but has not shown severe implications. However, instructions had been issued to intensify tracing and treatment, Bommai said. Replying to a question about a statement of union health minister Mansukh Mandavia that none of the states except Punjab had submitted a report on deaths caused by oxygen shortage, Bommai said: “I have no information as to in what context the statement has been made.” Bommai said the winter session of the state legislature would be held from December 13 to 24 in Belagavi by strictly following COVID-19 norms. The secretariat would undertake the task of sanitising the building and seating arrangements in both Houses of the legislature. The district administration has been given instructions to allow only people with two doses of vaccination to the Suvarna Soudha. Missing South Africans tracked: BBMP When asked about Health Minister Dr K Sudhakar’s statement about 10 passengers from South Africa went missing in the state, Bommai said he has not received official information about it. “I will speak to the health minister about it,” he said. However, BBMP chief commissioner Gaurav Gupta on Saturday said all South African travellers and those from other high-risk countries who had come to the city over the last two weeks have been traced. They have been isolated and their samples have been taken for COVID-19 tests as a precautionary measure and to rule out all doubts. Gupta said all these people came from South Africa to Bengaluru two to three weeks back when the requirement of a negative RT-PCR report was not made mandatory along with a re-test on arrival at Kempegowda International Airport. Karnataka and Bengaluru reported 397 and 207 new Covid-19 cases on Saturday, taking the active caseload to 7,012 and 5,096, respectively. While the state reported seven deaths due to the infections, taking the toll to 38,224, its capital city saw one Covid-19 related fatalities on the day, pushing its toll to 891, according to the daily health bulletin.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/vaccination-mandatory-to-visit-apartments-says-karnataka-cm-101638643337876.html
05-12-2021||India||Konijeti Rosaiah, former CM of undivided Andhra Pradesh, passes away||Hyderabad Former chief minister of undivided Andhra Pradesh and veteran Congress leader Konijeti Rosaiah passed away following a cardiac arrest on Saturday morning. He was 88.According to his family, Rosaiah was rushed to Star Hospitals in Banjara Hills after his blood pressure dropped in the morning. He was declared brought dead by doctors. A statement from the hospital said that the former chief minister was brought in an unresponsive state and was declared dead at 8.20 am Born on July 4, 1933 at Vemuru village of Guntur district, Rosaiah began his association with politics as a student union leader during his graduation at Hindu College in Guntur district. He remained in active politics for more than six decades. A follower of Swatantra Party leader N G Ranga, Rosaiah joined the Congress. He was elected member of state legislative council in 1968, 1974, 1980 and 2009. He was elected as an MLA twice in 1989 and 2004 from Chirala assembly constituency in Prakasam district. He also served as an MP from Narsaraopet parliamentary constituency in 1998.Rosaiah worked as a minister in various cabinets of the Congress governments in the state, right from Marri Channa Reddy in 1978 to Y S Rajasekhar Reddy in 2004-09. While he held several important portfolios, he was popular as finance minister during the Y S Rajasekhar Reddy regime.After YSR’s death in a helicopter crash on September 2, 2009, Rosaiah took over as chief minister and continued in the post till November 4, 2010, when he was replaced by N Kiran Kumar Reddy.It was during this period that the movement for a separate state had reached its peak and the UPA government announced the commencement of the process of Telangana state formation.On August 31, 2011, Rosaiah was sworn in as Governor of Tamil Nadu and he continued in the post till August 30, 2016. For a brief period between July and September 2014, Rosaiah also served as acting Governor of Karnataka.After completing his term as governor, Rosaiah kept away from active politics and occasionally attended functions.Andhra Pradesh chief minister Y S Jagan Mohan Reddy, Telangana chief minister K Chandrasekhar Rao, Telangana PCC chief A Revanth Reddy and several other leaders expressed condolences over the sudden demise of Rosaiah.Rosaiah is survived by his wife, three sons and a daughter.
05-12-2021||India||Authorities test over 100 people who attended conference with infected man||In an attempt to track the source of new Covid variant Omicron in a 46-year-old Bengaluru doctor, Bruhat Bengaluru Mahanagara Palike (BBMP) officials are conducting contact tracing of medical professionals who attended an international conference here on November 20. Officials have been unable to trace the source of the new variant in the patient, who doesn’t have any international travel history. HT had reported that the doctor had attended an international conference in Bengaluru a day before he tested positive for Covid-19. The 28th annual conference of the Indian College of Cardiology was conducted in a hotel in Bengaluru and it was attended by around 60 medical professionals, including the infected person. The organisers of the events said all participants were from Bengaluru and all international participants attended the conference over the video conferencing. So far three persons, including the doctor, who attended the event, have tested positive for Covid-19. “We are currently tracing all participants and their contacts to identify if anyone has contacted the virus. More than 100 people including the hotel staff have been tested. The contract tracing will continue. As we have said earlier, to identify the source of the variant the patient number two, we will trace his contacts for as long as required,” said KV Trilok Chandra, special commissioner (health) of BBMP. The official said with the contract tracing, the government will be able to identify all those who had come in contact with the patients and isolate them at the earliest. A doctor, who attended the conference, pointed out that the doctor (patient number two) tested positive for the new variant just a day after attending the event. “The incubation period for the virus is 5-10 days, so it is possible that he got the virus before the event itself. As for the event, we had taken all precautions including wearing of the masks,” said the doctor, who didn’t want to be named. Health Minister Dr K Sudhakar had said patient number two had developed fever and body ache on November 21 and tested positive the next day. Since he had a low CT value (which indicates a high viral load), his sample was sent for genomic sequencing. This patient had 13 primary contacts and 205 secondary contacts. Out of which three primary contacts and two secondary contacts, have tested positive for Covid. They are currently at a government hospital and not showing any severe symptoms. The patient number two, who has mild symptoms, is currently under isolation at a hospital in Bengaluru as a precaution. His oxygen saturation levels are satisfactory and he didn’t report any breathing problems. The doctor is in good health and doesn’t have any symptoms at present, said BBMP officials. The Karnataka government on Friday ordered a probe into how a South African national obtained a negative RT-PCR report from a Bengaluru lab, enabling him to leave the country despite his swab results testing positive for Omicron variant. A senior police officer on Saturday said: “We have been asked if there have been any malpractice in issuing the negative certificate to the patient. We will submit a report to the government at the earliest.” The South African national was kept in isolation at a five-star hotel following his positive report at the Kempegowda International Airport in Bengaluru. After his samples were detected with a new strain, it was sent for a genomic sequencing test. Authorities have maintained that the infected person had taken a test in another lab and tested negative. He was allowed to go to Dubai through Bengaluru airport. From Dubai, he had reached South Africa. However, revenue minister R Ashok said there was some suspicion of malpractice, so a probe has been ordered. 
05-12-2021||India||Assam journalist booked under sedition charges over article on lawyer’s arrest||A journalist was charged with sedition on Saturday in Assam’s Silchar district, allegedly for writing an article on the arrest of lawyer Pradip Dutta Roy in a local news website, police said.Journalist Anirban Roy Choudhury was booked at Silchar Sadar police station under sections 153 (A) (promoting enmity between different groups) and 124 (A) (sedition), along with other sections of the Indian Penal Code (IPC), police said. The action was taken based on a first information report (FIR) lodged by Santanu Sutradhar, a businessman.“He has been summoned under Section 41(A) (notice of appearance before police officer) of the Code of Criminal Procedure (CrPC) to the police station on December 6,” police said.Choudhary on November 28 wrote an article in local news portal Barak Bulletin on the arrest of Dutta Roy after sedition charges were pressed against the senior advocate. The article – Welcome To The Paradise Of The Spineless — We Are Assamese, ‘Bhasha Shaheeds’ Are Dead And So Are Their Descendants – questioned the role of local socio-cultural organisations in protection of the Assam Official Language (Amendment) Act, 1961.The article criticised local Bengali residents for not extending support to Roy while he was “getting harassed” during arrest on November 27.The law allows use of local languages in the three districts of Barak Valley (Bengali), besides Bodoland (Bodo), for all official communication.The editorial written by Roy Choudhury has no potential for sedition charges, according to Soumen Choudhary, a lawyer. “We’ll move for bail soon,” he said.Journalists from Barak Valley condemned the incident and threatened of a mass protest. Silchar-based journalist Abhijit Bhattacharjee said, “We won’t let these attacks on journalists to continue. We have called all the journalists across Barak Valley to gather in Silchar on Sunday afternoon. We’ll plan for mass protest if the case is not withdrawn soon.”Earlier, a controversy erupted in Silchar last month after removal of a central government’s Covid-19 vaccination campaign poster written in Assamese.Dutta Roy, who recently founded a political party called the Barak Democratic Front, had objected to using only Assamese in the government poster and claimed it was a violation of the Assam language law. The poster was replaced by a bilingual one last week that included Bengali.Dutta Roy, a former lawyer practising at the Gauhati high court, was questioned by police twice before being arrested on November 27 on sedition charges based on complaints lodged by two local organisations. He was denied bail and sent to jail till December 10, but was later sent in medical custody.Police on its own also registered a case against Dutta Roy for allegedly harassing journalists. On Friday, Silchar-based journalists wrote to Assam Governor Jagdish Mukhi to withdraw the case.“Our government is trying to create bridges of harmony between linguistic communities of Assam. But few people are spitting venom because they want to divide the commons on linguistic grounds,” Assam chief minister Himanta Biswa Sarma had said just before of Dutta Roy’s arrest. “We won’t allow people like Pradip Dutta Roy to divide people.”Last month, two Delhi-based women journalists — Samriddhi K Sakunia and Swarna Jha — were arrested in Assam’s Karimganj district while returning from Tripura after reporting on alleged vandalism of religious structures there. However, a local court in Tripura granted them bail on November 16, within two days of arrest.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/assam-journalist-booked-under-sedition-charges-over-article-on-lawyer-s-arrest-101638643040486.html
05-12-2021||India||Extortion case: Police file charge sheet against Param Bir Singh, Sachin Vaze||The crime branch on Saturday pressed charges against former Mumbai Police commissioner Param Bir Singh, dismissed assistant police inspector Sachin Vaze and two others in an extortion case filed by an hotelier.This is the first charge sheet filed against Singh, who has five first information reports registered against him in Mumbai and Thane police stations between April 28 and August 20, 2021.“We have collected evidence and recorded statements of many witnesses to establish how Singh and Vaze were running an extortion racket,” said special public prosecutor Shekhar Jagtap. Singh had recorded his statement in the case last week.Also Read| Param Bir Singh suspended for dereliction of dutyThe crime branch collected 69 audio clips of conversations between Vaze, complainant Bimal Agarwal and the witness from whom Vaze allegedly extorted ₹35 lakh. The transcript of the clips forms part of the charge sheet.The witness stated that Vaze threatened to arrest him in a case registered by the Property Cell of Mumbai Police against cricket bookies though he claimed to have nothing to do with it, according to the charge sheet.The witness said Vaze sent him a message, asking him to pay ₹2 crore if he wanted to avoid being arrested. The witness said he was forced to pay the amount, which he gave to Alpesh Patel, an accused in the case.During the course of its investigation, Mumbai crime branch recorded statements of several bar owners, many of whom said Vaze collected monthly “protection amounts” from them at the behest of Param Bir Singh, whom Vaze referred to as “number one.”This assumes importance in view of the fact that in his statements to the Enforcement Directorate, which investigates financial crimes, Vaze had claimed he collected money from bar owners in Mumbai based on instructions of former home minister Anil Deshmukh of the Nationalist Congress Party.The 1,895 pages long charge sheet against Singh and others contained statements of dozens of witnesses and was filed before the Esplanade metropolitan magistrate court, crime branch officials said.Vaze was arrested by the National Investigation Agency (NIA) on March 13 in connection with his alleged role in planting explosives (gelatine sticks without a timer or detonator) in an SUV outside the house of industrialist Mukesh Ambani in February, and the subsequent murder of Thane trader Mansukh Hiran to whom the car belonged.On August 25, Goregaon police registered an extortion case against Singh, Vaze and others based on a complaint by hotelier Bimal Agarwal, who alleged that the accused extorted ₹11.92 lakh from him by threatening to register cases against two bars he owned in partnership with others.Also Read| Transfers scam: Jagtap gets bail, court stays clear of phone-tapping legalityThe offence had reportedly taken place between January 2020 and March 2021, police had said. The case was later transferred to Unit 11 of the crime branch for investigation.Besides Singh and Vaze, others charge-sheeted in the case include Alpesh Patel and Sumit Singh, alias Chintu. While Vaze is in judicial custody, Patel and Sumit Singh are out on bail. Police are yet to file a charge sheet against two others accused in the case, Vinay Singh and Riyaz Bhati.Singh, who was recently suspended by the state government from his post as the director general of Maharashtra Home Guard. He showed up before investigators last week after the Supreme Court granted him protection from arrest.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/extortion-case-police-file-charge-sheet-against-param-bir-singh-sachin-vaze-101638642737708.html
05-12-2021||India||UP girl killed after sexual assault, body stuffed in trunk: Police||The body of a six-year-old girl, who went missing from her home on Thursday, was found stuffed inside a trunk in a neighbour’s house in Hapur town of Uttar Pradesh on Saturday morning, police said. The owner of the house was arrested after he admitted to sexually assaulting and murdering the girl, they added. Hapur assistant superintendent of police (ASP) Sarvesh Mishra said the girl had stepped out of her house for some purchases on Thursday when the accused, Amjad, 38, lured her to his house which is located barely 50 metres away.“The accused, a labourer, sexually assaulted her and then killed her. His wife and two children were not at home when the incident occured,” Mishra said.The girl’s family, meanwhile, began a search and lodged a complaint on Friday after they failed to locate her, he said. It was only after neighbours complained of some unpleasant smells from one of the houses on Saturday morning that a police team visited the spot. “The main gate was found locked by police. They broke the lock and upon searching the house, found the body of the girl stuffed in a trunk,” Mishra said. The accused was later arrested fromTrilokipuram locality, under Hapur Nagar police station, following which he confessed to the crime, the ASP said. Police claimed that the labourer is a drug addict. The body was sent for post-examination and a report is awaited, they added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/up-girl-killed-after-sexual-assault-body-stuffed-in-trunk-police-101638642264929.html
05-12-2021||India||Centre clears plan to make AK-203 assault rifles with Russia||New Delhi India and Russia are putting the finishing touches to agreements in defence, trade, space, technology and energy that are expected to be signed during the annual summit between Prime Minister Narendra Modi and President Vladimir Putin on December 6. Ahead of Putin’s day-long visit, the Indian government cleared a plan for the joint production of more than 500,000 AK-203 assault rifles with Russia to boost self-reliance in defence manufacturing, officials familiar with the matter said on Saturday. The annual summit – which has been held since 2000 – will be preceded by meetings between defence minister Rajnath Singh and his Russian counterpart Sergey Shoigu and external affairs minister S Jaishankar and his Russian counterpart Sergey Lavrov, and the inaugural 2+2 dialogue of the defence and foreign ministers. The two sides are looking forward to intense engagement on issues ranging from ways to deepen bilateral cooperation in trade, connectivity and energy to regional security concerns, such as the situation in Afghanistan, people familiar with planning for the summit said on condition of anonymity. Several agreements to deepen cooperation in defence, trade, space, technology, energy and culture are expected to be inked during the summit, the people said. The two sides are expected to renew their military-technical cooperation arrangement for 2021-31. A key pact that could be signed is the Reciprocal Exchange of Logistics Agreement (RELOS), which will allow militaries of the two nations to access logistics and support facilities at each other’s bases. The joint statement to be issued after the summit is expected to reflect India’s concerns over cross-border terror and the fallout of the Taliban takeover of Afghanistan, the people said. Modi and Putin had decided in August to have close consultations on Afghanistan and the two sides are coordinating on common concerns, the people added. Days before the summit, the government approved the plan to manufacture AK-203 rifles at a factory at Amethi in Uttar Pradesh under a joint venture called Indo-Russian Rifles Private Limited that was formed by Advanced Weapons and Equipment India Limited and Munitions India Limited and Russia’s Rosoboronexport and Kalashnikov. The Cabinet Committee on Security (CCS) on Wednesday took up the ₹5,100-crore project. The AK-203 rifles will replace INSAS rifles inducted more than three decades ago. “The approval reflects the paradigm shift in defence acquisition from buy (global) to Make in India. The endeavour also reflects the deepening partnership between the two countries,” said an official. “The project will provide business opportunities to various MSMEs and other defence firms for supply of raw material and components, which will lead to a generation of new employment opportunities,” he said. Last month, the Defence Acquisition Council (DAC) – India’s apex military procurement body – granted key approvals to accelerate the acquisition of AK-203 rifles to be made in India with transfer of Russian technology. Putin’s visit will have a major defence and security overhang. The delivery of the first squadron of S-400 air defence systems – part of a $5.4-billion contract with Russia for five systems – is coinciding with the visit. Russian officials have said that the delivery of components for the air defence systems has already begun. Against the backdrop of US threats to impose secondary sanctions on the S-400 deal under the Countering America’s Adversaries Through Sanctions Act (CAATSA), the people cited above said India follows a policy of strategic autonomy when it comes to defence procurements and national security interests. The people said Russia was a “natural fit” for a 2+2 dialogue as the two countries work closely on defence and political issues. India currently has such mechanisms only with Australia, Japan and the US, but the people said the new 2+2 dialogue with Russia wasn’t an afterthought or a balancing act. At least 15 groups focused on economic cooperation between India and Russia have met virtually over the past two years amid the Covid-19 pandemic and the two sides have increased the target for two-way investments to $50 billion by 2025 as the earlier target of $30 billion had been achieved in 2018. India is also focusing on trade and investment opportunities in Russia’s Far East, including in coal and diamonds and meeting manpower needs. As part of these efforts, 11 governors from the Far East have been invited to the Vibrant Gujarat meet of 2022. Modi and Putin are expected to have restricted one-on-one talks during the summit, which will begin at 5.30pm, and the Russian leader will emplane from Delhi at 9.30pm. Their talks are expected to provide guidance for strengthening the bilateral strategic partnership. This will only be Putin’s second foreign visit since the Covid-19 outbreak – he travelled to Geneva in June for his first meeting with US President Joe Biden. Putin’s decision to travel to New Delhi reflects the importance attached by Russia to its special and privileged strategic partnership with India.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/centre-clears-plan-to-make-ak-203-assault-rifles-with-russia-101638642197770.html
05-12-2021||India||Must not repeat past mistakes in EV market: Niti Aayog CEO||India must learn from its mistakes made in the field of electronics manufacturing to avoid committing them in the field of electric mobility, NITI Aayog CEO Amitabh Kant said on Friday. Making India a global leader in electric vehicle manufacturing would facilitate the shift from a sunset to a sunrise area of industry, Kant said in a speech to the Round Table Conference organised by the ministry of heavy industries. “In the last 70 years, India has always been getting into the sunset areas of industry. And by the time you get into the sunrise areas of industry, it is too late. By that time, the Chinese and other countries have already taken the market and they have the size and scale. And once they have the size and scale, you’ll never be able to penetrate global markets,” Kant said. “Therefore, we say that you get into the sunrise areas of the future and if you get into these areas, you will become a global champion.”“Those countries that go digital and go green will attract valuation and investment, and those that do not go green and digital will go dead. There will be no future for those countries. This disruption is absolutely clear. ...by 2025, there will be no combustion two-three wheelers left,” he added. Urging industries to make India the centre of manufacturing for both the Indian and global markets, Kant said: “One of the lessons we learnt was that in the case of mobile phones, where the market grew in India, but we became import-dependent. What we learned in solar is that the market grew in India, but we became import-dependent. Let us not make that mistake in the world of mobility. We must make India the centre of manufacturing, both for the Indian market and for the rest of the world. And that is now dependent on all of you… to make the states of India the centre of manufacturing.” “Our vision is battery storage, green hydrogen and renewables. And we are not talking about India. We are talking about making India the biggest player in the world. India must become the biggest manufacturer of battery storage, of green hydrogen, the biggest exporter of green hydrogen, the biggest exporter of battery storage… Don’t look at India. Look at the world as your market,” he told the gathering.“Therefore, my belief is that... if you do not bring in technology or you do not go green, India will lose out.” The ongoing round table is being organised to bring together all stakeholders from central government, state governments and Union territories, leaders of auto equipment makers and automotive component manufacturers, battery storage entrepreneurs, start-ups and technical experts, and work out strategies to promote adoption of electric vehicles, and attract investment in manufacturing of electric vehicles, batteries and high technology automotive components in the country. Transport ministers of most states and representatives of private automobile industries were among those who attended the event.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/must-not-repeat-past-mistakes-in-ev-market-niti-aayog-ceo-101638642077715.html
05-12-2021||India||SKM forms 5-member panel to talk with Centre on pending demands||The Samyukta Kisan Morcha (SKM) on Saturday formed a five-member panel for talks with the government on their pending demands, even as the group, which was spearheading the protest against the now repealed farm laws, announced it will continue its agitation until all demands are met .On November 29, the Centre repealed the three agricultural laws farmers had been protesting against for over a year.With the latest move, crucial talks between the Union government and protesting farm unions could resume in a few weeks after nearly a year of pause. “Talks are possible soon but it all depends on when the government sends its invitation,” Hannan Mollah, who is on the SKM’s committee for presumptive negotiations, said.Farmer leaders Balbir Singh Rajewal, Ashok Dhawle, Shiv Kumar Kakka, Gurnam Singh Chaduni and Yudhvir Singh were named the members of the committee after a meeting was held by the SKM. The SKM panel will focus on pending demands including on minimum support price, compensation to the kin of farmers who died during the movement against the agriculture laws and withdrawal of cases against the protesters, farmer leader Rakesh Tikait said.He said that the next meeting of the morcha will take place on December 7 to decide the future course of the movement. The SKM has decided they will not move from the Delhi border protest site until all their demands are met.The Union government is indirectly talking to some farm leaders to prepare the ground for a dialogue over a slew of remaining demands by cultivators, according to a person aware of the matter.Mollah said the farmers’ platform set up the five-member panel after a request by the Centre to keep the team of negotiators small. He said Union home minister Amit Shah held telephonic conversations with farm leaders Balbir Singh Rajewal and Yudhvir Singh. “This not good enough. We need a formal dialogue to start soon,” he said.Farmer leader Dhawle said the issues of compensation to be given for the farmers who died, “false cases” lodged against farmers and the Lakhimpur Kheri incident were discussed at the meeting on Saturday.The Union government hasn’t announced a date for the two sides to get back on the table and the SKM said it will respond only when an official invitation is extended to the farmers by the Centre.After 11 rounds of talks, the Centre withdrew from the dialogue process on January 22 this year after a deadlock. At the time, the Union government viewed as sweeping calls by farm unions to scrap the laws. Prime Minister Narendra Modi on November 19 said his government would abandon the legislation at the heart of massive protests by tens of thousands of farmers.The farmers said the government would have to cancel all criminal cases registered against protesting farmers in various states, especially Haryana, a major arena of the farm protests.In separate talks with Haryana chief minister Manohar Lal Khattar on Friday by a team of farm leaders that included Gurnam Singh Chaduni and Inderjit Singh, the Haryana government for the first time acknowledged that it was prepared to take back cases.“The Haryana chief minister said cases would be withdrawn but he did not even in principle accept our demand that families of martyred farmers be compensated monetarily,” Inderjit said.The two sides – the Haryana government and the farm leaders led by Chaduni – could not agree on the number of cases to be withdrawn. Farm unions say 45,000 protesting farmers had been named as accused in various police complaints, while the government put the figure at 32,000.“(The) Samyukt Kisan Morcha held a crucial meeting today to discuss about pending demands of the farmers’ movement and the lack of a formal response from the Government of India. It was decided unanimously that the farmers’ agitation will continue as is, until formal and satisfactory responses are obtained from the Government of India,” the SKM said in a release.Bringing a law to guarantee minimum prices for farm produce is a top pending demand. Besides, farm unions also want the cancelling of the Electricity Amendment Bill 2020/2021, which proposes to replace subsidised agricultural power with direct cash benefits.The SKM also wants a section of a law on pollution in the National Capital Region deleted. The section empowers authorities to fine farmers for burning crop residue, a major cause of air pollution.The farmers also want withdrawal of all cases slapped on protesting farmers in states such as Delhi, Haryana, Uttar Pradesh, Uttarakhand, Himachal Pradesh, Madhya Pradesh, Chandigarh, Maharashtra and Rajasthan.They also want a parcel of land to erect a memorial for 702 farmers who have died during the course of their year-long agitation and their families rehabilitated with compensation.
05-12-2021||NA||Breaking news highlights: Bengal reports 621 new Covid cases, 11 more deaths||Welcome to hindustantimes.com live updates platform where you can find breaking news from India and across the world. Find fast updates about the latest news as it breaks.Missed an important news update? Worried about what is happening in the world of finance and how it will impact you? Want to know about the latest update on Covid-19? Don't worry, we have you covered.Follow all the updates here:West Bengal reports 621 new Covid cases, 11 more deathsWest Bengal on Saturday reported 621 new cases and 11 more deaths due to Covid-19, which pushed the caseload and death toll to 1,618,637 and 621 respectively. New variant a wake-up call to be aware pandemic isn't over: ExpertDirector of Tata Institute for Genetics & Society, Rakesh Mishra, said on Saturday the new variant is a wake-up call to be aware that the Coronavirus pandemic is not over, adding India's healthcare system is much more enabled than it was in the previous waves. Three more passengers at Mumbai airport test positive for Covid-19, reports PTI citing civic officialThree more passengers who arrived at Mumbai airport from abroad recently have tested positive for Covid-19, taking total tally to 13, news agency PTI quoted a civic official as saying on Saturday.Biden says he anticipates ‘long discussion’ with Putin over Ukraine borderPresident Joe Biden said he anticipated a “long discussion” with Vladimir Putin over the threat of an invasion of Ukraine, and dismissed the Russian leader’s warning that deployment of Western weapons or troops represented a “red line",  reported news agency Bloomberg.Amit Shah visits border post in Rajasthan at India-Pak borderRajasthan: Union Home Minister Amit Shah and Union Minister Gajendra Singh Shekhawat have dinner with BSF jawans and officers at Rohitash border outpost in Jaisalmer. pic.twitter.com/nVmvCYd49qUnion home minister Amit Shah on Saturday attended 'Bada Khana' (dinner) with Border Security Force personnel at the Rohitash Border during his visit to the border post in Jaisalmer.Another individual infected by Omicron Covid-19 strain found; tally reaches 4Maharashtra reports its first case of Omicron variant, reports news agency PTI. With this, the total tally of Omicron variant infection in India has reached four. Read moreWaterlogging witnessed in parts of Tamil Nadu's MaduraiTamil Nadu: Parts of Madurai experience waterlogging as the region continues to receive rainfall. Visuals around Meenakshi Amman Temple. pic.twitter.com/67SmbIMTVTParts of Madurai in Tamil Nadu experience waterlogging as the region continues to receive rainfall.Suspected jihadists kill at least 30 in central Mali, reports AFPAt least 30 civilians were killed in an attack carried out by suspected jihadists in the central town of Mopti, local officials told AFP on Saturday. Veteran journalist Vinod Dua passes awayVeteran journalist Vinod Dua passed away on Saturday, his daughter Mallika Dua informed through her Instagram account. Earlier this week, Vinod Dua was admitted to the ICU at a Delhi hospital.Farmers not ready to call off agitation, reports ANIFarmers' leader Darshan Pal Singh said on Saturday that the agitation won't be called off unless all cases against the farmers are withdrawn. “Today a clear cut signal has been sent out to Govt that we're not going to take back the agitation unless all cases against farmers are taken back,” news agency ANI quoted Pal Singh as saying.N team deployed in Odisha's Puri in wake of  Cyclone JawadOdisha | In view of #CycloneJawad, one team has been deployed here in Puri. If the situation worsens here, we have all the rescue equipment and team ready for that: NDRF officer Biswanath Choudhary pic.twitter.com/O01ZwvzRjP“In view of Cyclone Jawad, one team has been deployed in Odisha's Puri. If the situation worsens here, we have all the rescue equipment and team ready for that," news agency ANI quoted NDRF officer Biswanath Choudhary as saying.West Bengal evacuates people in South 24 Parganas and Purba Medinipur, reports PTIThe West Bengal government on Saturday evacuated thousands of people in South 24 Parganas and Purba Medinipur districts, reported news agency PTI. The state government further urged tourists in popular sea resorts to stay away from beaches amid warnings for the approaching Cyclone Jawad. Three Omicron cases in India after Gujarat reports first case of new variantGujarat has reported its first case of Omicron variant in Jamnagar, reports news agency ANI. This is the third case of Omicron variant reported in the country so far.“A person who came from Zimbabwe was infected with the variant. His sample has been sent to Pune,” ANI quoted the state health department as saying.Centre has approved over ₹1 lakh crores for development of Uttarakhand: PM ModiPrime Minister Narendra Modi said on Friday, “In the last 5 years, the Centre has approved more than ₹1 lakh crores for the development of Uttarakhand. More than ₹18,000 crores have been invested in today's developmental projects.” PM Modi lays foundation for Delhi-Dehradun economic corridorPrime Minister Narendra Modi inaugurates & lays the foundation stone of multiple projects worth around ₹18,000 crores in Dehradun, Uttarakhand pic.twitter.com/iPNm8wjeMqPrime Minister Narendra Modi on Friday laid the foundation for multiple projects including the ambitious Delhi-Dehradun economic corridor in Dehradun, Uttarakhand. Read morePM Modi inspects the model of the Delhi-Dehradun Economic CorridorDehradun | PM Modi inspects the model of the Delhi-Dehradun Economic Corridor. The corridor will be built at a cost of around ₹8300 croresHe will inaugurate & lay the foundation stone of multiple projects worth around ₹18,000 crores in Uttarakhand today(Source: DD) pic.twitter.com/joWqfWqsB2PM Modi inspected the model of the Delhi-Dehradun Economic Corridor which will be built at a cost of around ₹8300 crore. He will shortly inaugurate and lay the foundation stone of multiple projects in Uttarakhand today.PM Modi arrives in Dehradun to inaugurate multiple projectsPM Modi has arrived in Dehradun to inaugurate and lay foundation stone for multiple projects worth ₹18,000 crore.PM Modi to inaugurate, lay foundation stone of multiple projects in DehradunPrime Minister Narendra Modi will shortly inaugurate multiple development projects in Dehradun worth ₹18,000 crore, including Delhi-Dehradun Economic Corridor.PM Modi condoles death of former Andhra CM K RosaiahSaddened by the passing away of Shri K. Rosaiah Garu. I recall my interactions with him when we both served as Chief Ministers and later when he was Tamil Nadu Governor. His contributions to public service will be remembered. Condolences to his family and supporters. Om Shanti. pic.twitter.com/zTWyh3C8u1Prime Minister Narendra Modi extended condolences to the family and supporters of former Andhra Pradesh chief minister K Rosaiah who died on Saturday morning following a cardiac stroke.‘Weakening north-northeastwards change in movement of Cyclone Jawad after evening today’: IMDThere'll be a weakening north-northeastwards change in the movement of #CycloneJawad after evening, along the Odisha coast; till Dec 5, it'll reach Puri area to form a deep depression. Wind speed is expected to be 50-70kmph till Dec 5 afternoon: Mrutyunjay Mohapatra, DG-IMDIMD said that there will be a weakening north-northeastwards change in movement of cyclone Jawad after evening today along the Odisha coast, reports ANI. “It'll reach Puri area to form a deep depression. Wind speed is expected to be 50-70kmph till Dec 5 afternoon,” said Mrutyunjay Mohapatra, DG-IMD.Mumbai awaiting genome sequencing results of 288 samples from foreign returnees, says MayorMumbai Mayor Kishori Pednekar said that the city administration was awaiting the genome sequencing results of 288 samples taken from as many foreing returnees to the city, reports ANI. WATCH | People evacuate Puri beach as cyclone Jawad approaches#WATCH | Odisha: People vacating the Puri beach area with their make-shift shops & belongings, while the deployed police expedite the process in the wake of #CycloneJawad pic.twitter.com/eGfUkEsBUAPeople in Puri's beach area evacuated the place to shelter homes put up in the area in the wake of cyclone Jawad, reports ANI. “The safety of the people is our topmost priority. Everyone present at the Puri beach has been asked to vacate the area. Shelter homes have been established in Puri; all are requested to follow government guidelines on cyclone Jawad,” said Puri SP Kanwar Vishal Singh.Delhi's air quality remains in 'very poor' categoryThe air quality in the national capital continued to remain in the 'very poor' category on Saturday morning, according to the System of Air Quality and Weather Forecasting And Research (SAFAR).Tikait says talks between Haryana CM and farmers remained inconclusiveBharatiya Kisan Union leader Rakesh Tikait said that the talks between Haryana chief minister ML Khattar and farmers remained inconclusive, adding the state government has, however, agreed to take back the cases registered against farmers.Biden says he's been aware of Russia's actions for a whileAfter US intelligence officials found Russia planning Ukraine offensive, President Joe Biden said he has been aware of the Kremlin's actions for a while now.New Jersey confirms its first case of Omicron variantNew Jersey governor Phil Murphy has confirmed the state's first case of the coronavirus Omicron variant late on Friday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/breaking-news-live-updates-december-4-2021-101638577986311.html
