06-12-2021||India||U.P. class 10 girl kidnapped at gunpoint, raped||A minor girl was kidnapped at gunpoint and raped by two youths living in her neighbourhood in the Gangoh police station area of the district, an official said on Monday.The class 10 student was kidnapped by a youth and his brother when she was mopping the outer courtyard of her house, Saharanpur Superintendent of Police (Rural) Atul Sharma said.The youths took the girl to their house and rendered her unconscious by making her smell stupefying substance, the SP said, adding that the duo then raped the girl.The girl returned home after she regained consciousness and told his family members about the incident following which the girl’s father lodged a complaint at the police station, Sharma said.The police subsequently got the girl medically examined and have launched a probe into the complaint.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/upclass-10-girl-kidnapped-at-gunpoint-raped-101638814609317.html
06-12-2021||India||Red faces in Bihar district after Covid test list includes Modi, Shah and Sonia||PATNA: There were red faces in Bihar’s Arwal district on Monday after it emerged that according to an official list, among the people to have been tested for Covid-19 in the district in October this year were Prime Minister Narendra Modi, home minister Amit Shah, Congress president Sonia Gandhi and actor Priyanka Chopra Jonas.An investigation has been ordered into the lapse and the district has started checking its list for the entire district.“FIR (First Information Report) will be lodged against all those who are responsible for this lapse and action will be taken against them,” district magistrate J Priyardashni said on Monday evening.“This is indeed is a serious lapse and we are getting the Covid testing list of the entire district checked,” Priyardashni told HT.According to an excerpt of the list that have been widely circulated on social media, two people by the name of Narendra Modi were tested twice for Covid-19 on October 27 at Karpi primary health centre in Arwal, less than 100km from state capital. One is listed as a 52-year-old, the second aged 21. Sonia Gandhi was tested twice and Priyanka Chopra thrice on the same day.Priyardashni said the district civil surgeon came across the list 22 days back and has ordered removal of the two operators of the private company responsible for data entry. “But we need to investigate about other’s involvement as well,” she added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/red-faces-in-bihar-district-after-covid-test-list-includes-modi-shah-and-sonia-101638812449053.html
06-12-2021||India||Tamil Nadu opens shutters of Mullaperiyar dam angering Kerala; several areas inundated||Tamil Nadu on Monday opened nine shutters of the Mullaperiyar Dam, inundating several areas downstream in Kerala.Kerala said that the move was unexpected as it repeatedly appealed to the Tamil Nadu government to not open the shutters at night. Kerala water resources minister Roshy Augustine, who rushed to Idukki, termed the action taken by the Tamil Nadu government as ‘irresponsible’.He also said since the released water will move to Idukki, the Idukki dam will also be opened on Tuesday morning. ‘The move was least expected,” Augustine said. The Kerala government has issued a high alert in the region. This is the first time nine shutters of Mullaperiyar were opened at once. The catchment areas near the dam continue to get heavy downpour.The dam is the cause of a decades-old dispute between the two states. Tamil Nadu owns and runs the Mullaperiyar dam and is against the rebuilding of the dam fearing it will lose control over it. For Kerala, the dam poses risks to many living in the downstream areas while it remains intrinsic to its neighbour for water supply to adjoining districts and power generation. The dam is built on the upper reaches of the Periyar river, which flows into Kerala. The recent heavy rains in the region has reignited the debate regarding the location of the dam.The Supreme Court earlier in a ruling asked both states to abide by the committee’s recommendation which said water level in the dam would be limited to 138 feet till October 31 and 139.5 feet till November 10.The Tamil Nadu government earlier on December 2 also released water from the Mullaperiyar Dam inviting criticism from the Kerala government. It was on the same day the Kerala chief minister Pinarayi Vijayan wrote to Tamil Nadu chief minister MK Stalin not to open shutters of Mullaperiyar dam without prior information and that too at night.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/tamil-nadu-opens-shutters-of-mullaperiyar-dam-angering-kerala-several-areas-inundated-101638811729239.html
06-12-2021||India||S-400 missile supplies from Russia have begun, says Harsh Shringla||Russia has begun deliveries of its long-range S-400 surface-to-air missile defence system to India, foreign secretary Harsh Vardhan Shringla said Monday."S-400 supplies have begun this month and will continue to happen," Shringla said soon after Russian President Vladimir Putin's visit to New Delhi earlier in the day.Shringla said Putin's visit was short but highly productive and substantive. He also outlined that the two leaders signed 28 agreements between the two countries. “The fact that Russian President Vladimir Putin decided to visit India for our annual summit is an indication of the importance he attaches to the bilateral relationship and his personal rapport with Prime Minister Narendra Modi,” Shringla said.Earlier in the day, Russia's foreign minister Sergei Lavrov praised the S-400 air defence missile systems deal between his country and India, saying the United States tried to strong-arm India into opting out of the pact but New Delhi went through anyway.The Russian foreign minister took a oblique dig at the Countering America's Adversaries Through Sanctions Act (CAATSA) that the US uses to bring sanctions against nations that have economic and defence ties to Russia, North Korea and Iran.The US, which is also India’s main defence partner, has expressed its disapproval towards the S-400 missile deal but India contended that the negotiations began five years before CAATSA was enacted, according to a report by Hindustan Times.The US said in November it is yet to determine whether it will waive those sanctions with respect to the deal between India and Russia.Talking about CAATSA, Shringla said, “I don't think this issue came up at all (in talks with Russian delegation today)... The issue of legitimacy (of Taliban government) also did not come up.”Shringla said India is looking at intensifying its Buddhist things with Russia. “There're apparently 15 million Buddhists in Russia. This community is keen on looking at India for pilgrimage and other areas of interest. So the cultural cooperation is also important for both countries,” Shringla said.The foreign secretary said the issue of RELOS (Reciprocal Exchange of Logistics Agreement) has been put off for some time as there are still a few issues that India need to discuss further.Shringla added that enhancing bilateral trade and investment figured prominently in the talks between Modi and Putin. “This year, we've noticed an encouraging trend of growth in our trades compared to last year. Both sides are looking forward to continued increase in trade and investment trajectory,” Shringla said.“We have expressed interest in further investments in the oil and gas sector, as well as in the area of petrochemicals,” Shringla added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/s400-missile-supplies-from-russia-have-begun-says-harsh-shringla-101638806505742.html
06-12-2021||India||Can leave India if you feel suffocated: RSS leader's advice to Farooq Abdullah||Senior RSS leader Indresh Kumar hit out at National Conference (NC) president Farooq Abdullah on Monday over his remarks that the people of Jammu and Kashmir may have to make "sacrifices" like the agitating farmers to get their rights back, saying it shows that he loves violence, not peace.He suggested that Abdullah should leave the country to live in any other part of the world that he likes if he feels suffocated in India.The Rashtriya Swayamsevak Sangh (RSS) leader also slammed People's Democratic Party (PDP) chief Mehbooba Mufti for staging a protest in Delhi against the alleged repression of the people of Jammu and Kashmir, saying "it has become a fashion for her to tell lies".He said both the leaders from Jammu and Kashmir should stop playing the "politics of provocation" and becoming an obstruction in maintaining the country's unity and integrity."His statement clearly shows that he loves violence, not peace. He is saying he will get everyone killed, keep them hungry," Kumar said at a press conference here when asked for his views on Abdullah's remarks."Farooq Abdullah had earlier said China's help will be taken for the restoration of Jammu and Kashmir's special status. Shall we accept it? Never. It is nonsense. If he feels suffocated here, he should go wherever he wants, Arab or America. His wife lives in England. He can also think of going there to live with his wife. He will be happy," the RSS leader added.Abdullah on Sunday said the people of Jammu and Kashmir may have to make "sacrifices", like the farmers protesting against three farm laws did, to restore its statehood and special status.Addressing a convention of the NC's youth wing on the occasion of the 116th birth anniversary of party founder Sheikh Mohammad Abdullah at his mausoleum at Naseembagh in Srinagar, the former Jammu and Kashmir chief minister also said his party does not support violence.Mufti staged a dharna at Jantar Mantar here on Monday to protest against the alleged repression of the people of the Union Territory and demanded that the killings of innocents be stopped immediately.The former Jammu and Kashmir chief minister said she decided to stage the dharna in the national capital as she was never allowed to register her protest in Kashmir. She said she was either detained at her house or whisked away by police every time she planned a protest.Scores of PDP workers joined her in the protest at Jantar Mantar.In August 2019, the provisions of Article 370 of the Constitution were abrogated and the erstwhile state of Jammu and Kashmir was bifurcated into Union territories.Replying to the reporters' questions, Kumar alleged that Abdullah and Mufti are up against the abrogation of Article 370 because "somewhere or the other" they were associated with "the forces" weakening India.After the abrogation of Article 370, India had become a country with "one nationality, one flag, one law and one national anthem", he said."They (Abdullah and Mufti) are not liking this because somewhere or the other, they were associated with the forces weakening our country. They were playing into their hands. Because of this, sometimes they say they will take the help of Pakistan or China, sometimes they say they will not hold the tiranga (tricolour)," the RSS leader added.He asked Abdullah and Mufti to refrain from making "anti-national announcements and becoming "an obstruction" in the country's unity and integrity."They bring embarrassment to the country with their unconstitutional and anti-national announcements.... They should stop playing the politics of provocation," Kumar said.He also said a daylong international conference, titled "Global Terrorism versus Humanity, Peace and Possibilities -- Fundamentalism: The Dividing Line, A Case Study of Afghanistan", will be organised under the joint aegis of the Muslim Rashtriya Manch, the Vishwagram and the Forum for Awareness of National Security here on December 11."The conference is being organised to brainstorm on the larger problem of global terrorism, naxalism and other forms of terrorism in India, and find a way forward. Due to the pressing problems of terrorism, violence and fundamentalism, we still witness the emergence of repressive regimes and intolerant societies, which coercively oppress their own populations in the name of religious fundamentalism," Kumar, who is the founder and chief patron of the Muslim Rashtriya Manch, said.The Taliban in Afghanistan has surfaced as the most recent manifestation of this scenario, representing the "most horrendous expression" of the challenge of global terrorism to the existence of humanity, he added. PTI PK RC||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/can-leave-india-if-you-feel-suffocated-rss-leader-s-advice-to-farooq-abdullah-101638805234053.html
06-12-2021||India||Putin calls India ‘great power’, Modi says friendship with Russia is a ‘constant’ despite challenges||India and Russia focused on ways to boost bilateral cooperation in areas ranging from defence to energy and a coordinated approach to regional issues such as the situation in Afghanistan as Prime Minister Narendra Modi and President Vladimir Putin met in New Delhi for an annual summit.In his televised opening remarks at the summit, Putin described India as a “great power” and a time-tested friend, and said Russia works with India in the military-technical field “in a way that we do not work with any of our partners”. Modi noted in his opening remarks that this was only Putin’s second foreign visit since the start of the Covid-19 pandemic and reflects his personal commitment to bilateral relations. The year 2021 is important for bilateral ties as it marks five decades of the Indo-Soviet Treaty of Peace, Friendship and Cooperation of 1971 and two decades of the bilateral strategic partnership, he added.India-Russia friendship has “remained a constant” despite many fundamental changes on the world stage and the two countries have cooperated closely while paying attention to each other’s sensitivities, Modi said. The first India-Russia 2+2 dialogue held on Monday is a new mechanism to boost practical cooperation, he added.The two sides are in constant contact on Afghanistan and other regional issues, and defence cooperation has been strengthened through co-development and co-production under the “Make in India” initiative, Modi said.India and Russia should also guide their business communities to achieve the target of increasing bilateral trade to $30 billion and hiking bilateral investments to $50 billion by 2025, Modi said.Putin said Russia perceives India as a “great power” with whom relations “are developing and are looking to the future”. Though trade turnover declined by more than 17% in 2020, the growth was more than 38% in the first nine months of 2021, he said.Total bilateral investments now stand at $38 billion, and this is roughly equally divided, with slightly more investments from the Russian side, Putin said, adding the two sides are also cooperating in areas such as energy, high technology and space.“We continue to work actively in the international arena, and...our positions on very many issues do coincide. We are undoubtedly concerned about everything related to terrorism and the fight against it, as well as drugs and organised crime,” he said.The two sides are also concerned about the developing situation in Afghanistan, he added. 
06-12-2021||India||News updates from HT: PM Modi welcomes Vladimir Putin, discusses bilateral ties and all the latest news||Here are today’s top news, analysis, and opinion. Know all about the latest news and other news updates from Hindustan Times.‘Unique model of interstate friendship’: PM Modi welcomes Russia’s PutinPrime Minister Narendra Modi and Russian president Vladimir Putin met on Monday as India and Russia kicked off their first '2+2' ministerial dialogue to elevate the age-old ties between the two nations. Read more.Amid Omicron threat, 90 students test positive for Covid-19 in Karnataka schoolAs many as 101 people, including 90 students, in a school in Karnataka's Chikkamagaluru district have tested positive for coronavirus disease (Covid-19), adding to the already existing cluster of infections in the state amid the spread of Omicron in the country, officials said on Monday. Read more.2 persons who arrived in Odisha from Omicron ‘at-risk’ countries test positiveStarting November 26, when the World Health Organisation (WHO) designated B.1.1.529 strain of Covid-19 as a variant of concern and named it Omicron, at least 2 people reaching Odisha from the ‘countries at risk’ have tested positive for the virus, official data shows. Read more.Cricket South Africa announces revised itinerary of India's tour of South AfricaCricket South Africa has announced the revised schedule of India's tour of South Africa, which comprises three Tests and three ODIs. Read more.Katrina Kaif-Vicky Kaushal wedding: Bride and groom-to-be wave at the paparazzi as they leave for Jaipur. See picsActor Katrina Kaif outside her home in Mumbai on Monday evening, all set to leave for Jaipur for her wedding with actor Vicky Kaushal. Read more.Eat soaked almonds and raisins every day for these health benefitsBreakfast is the best way to fuel yourself for the day ahead. Read more.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/news-updates-from-ht-pm-welcomes-russian-president-putin-for-ministerial-talks-101638802313818.html
06-12-2021||India||Naveen Patnaik’s stand in a 1999 gang-rape case is BJP’s ammo against him||BHUBANESWAR: Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) lawmakers on Monday sent letters to chief minister Naveen Patnaik to ask the ruling Biju Janata Dal boss to come the assembly and sack the state’s junior home minister Dibya Shankar Mishra over his alleged proximity to the main accused in Kalahandi school teacher murder.The opposition legislators’ letter also responded to Patnaik’s statement to the assembly via video conference last week that rejected the demand to sack Dibya Shankar Mishra on the ground that there was no proof against him.The BJP lawmakers reminded Naveen Patnaik of his stand in 1999 when he led the campaign to demand that the then chief minister JB Patnaik of the Congress resign on moral grounds over the gang-rape of a housewife, Anjana Mishra. JB Patnaik resigned in February 1999, was replaced by Giridhar Gamang who was shown the door for his handling of relief and rescue operations for the 1999 super cyclone just ahead of state elections in 2000. Naveen Patnaik’s BJD formed just three years earlier came to power in the 2000 assembly elections, and has since then retained power in the coastal state.Also Read: Naveen Patnaik finally speaks on demand to axe minister, asks where’s the proof“At that time, you were making serious allegations against JB Patnaik that law and order in the state had deteriorated and women were feeling insecure. The main slogan of your party in the 2000 election was the gangrape of Anjana. But now the same Anjana Mishra has come forward to say that there is no difference between JB Patnaik and Naveen Patnaik,” the letter said.Back in 1999, Anjana Mishra accused JB Patnaik of engineering the rape to silence her for her case against then advocate general Indrajit Ray on charges of molestation. In their letter, the BJP MLAs said as Patnaik is not coming to the Assembly, they are forced to mail him the letter in the hope that his aides will read the letter to him.Also Read: ‘Political expediency’: BJD legislator critiques his boss Naveen Patnaik actions“You fired many of your ministers in the past over slightest allegations. Now what is this double standard in Mamita’s case? Please order CBI probe and sack Mishra,” the BJP leaders demanded as the the pandemonium in Odisha Assembly continued for the 5th day on Monday.The furore over the murder of Mamita Meher, a 26-year-old schoolteacher, who was allegedly killed by Gobind Sahu, president of the managing committee of Sunshine English medium school in Mahaling gram panchayat of Kalahandi district on October 8 has been rocking the state after Sahu’s arrest on October 19.Police said after Meher allegedly threatened to expose an alleged sex racket in the school, the the school management committee president killed her, dismembered the body, burnt it and buried it in an under-construction stadium near the school. Since then the opposition has been stridently demanding the sacking of minister of state for home Dibya Shankar Mishra alleging his complicity in the case.Chief minister Naveen Patnaik broke his silence on Mamita Meher’s death on Friday, saying it was a very sad and unfortunate incident.“Her death is a terrible and irreparable loss. My heart goes out to the family of the victim. My Government will ensure that no stone is left unturned to see that the perpetrators of the crime are brought to justice as per law in the shortest possible time,” Patnaik said in his speech to the assembly via video conferencing from Naveen Niwas.“Wherever there has been delinquency or negligence, stringent and exemplary action has been taken against erring police officers. In the past, there have been such sensitive cases against women,” he said.However, this has failed to pacify the opposition, who are demanding that Patnaik come to the state Assembly to reply to the allegations of opposition.Congress lawmaker Narasingha Mishra asked why the chief minister is not facing the opposition. “The CM is visiting different districts for BSKY (Biju Swasthya Kalyan Yojana) smart card distribution programmes and hockey event, but he is not coming to the Assembly,” said Mishra.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/naveen-patnaik-s-stand-in-anjana-mishra-case-is-bjp-s-ammo-against-him-101638803388165.html
06-12-2021||India||Maharashtra detects 2 more cases of Omicron infection||Maharashtra reported two cases of the Omicron variant of the coronavirus in Mumbai, taking the state's count to 10, the health department said on Monday.The department said both the patients do not have any symptoms, and are under observation at the Seven Hills Hospital.According to news agency ANI, a 37-year-old man, who returned from South Africa, and his 36-year-old US-returnee friend, were found to be infected with the Omicron variant.This is the second consecutive day that Maharashtra has reported Omicron cases. With the latest Omicron cases in Mumbai, India now has 23 patients so far.Earlier Maharashtra reported seven more cases of the Omicron variant. Among the infected who were detected yesterday all of them belonged to the Pune district, six in Pimpri-Chinchwad Municipal Corporation (PCMC) and one in Pune city and rural areas of the district. Of these seven patients, three recently visited Lagos and are from the same family. The other person recently traveled to Finland.Rajasthan was the second state to report Omicron infections on Sunday following Maharashtra. The Rajasthan state health department said that it detected nine people in Jaipur with the viral variant of the coronavirus. Four of the nine people infected with the Omicron variant in Jaipur are South Africa returnees, where the variant was first detected.A case of the Omicron variant was detected in Delhi last week. The first two cases were detected in Karnataka, after which cases were reported in Maharashtra and Gujarat.The Omicron variant created concerns among vaccine makers and health experts alike regarding the effect it would have on the pandemic due to its mutations and transmission capability. The detection of the new variant also led to international flight restrictions in several European countries. The US government is planning to hasten the process of giving boosters to its citizens in a bid to protect them from the viral variant.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/maharashtra-detects-2-more-cases-of-omicron-infection-101638799624395.html
06-12-2021||India||Nagaland civilian deaths: NHRC seeks report from Centre, state within 6 weeks||The National Human Rights Commission (NHRC) on Monday issued a notice to the Centre and Nagaland government over the killing of civilians by armed forces in the northeastern state, in what has been described as a case of ‘mistaken identity’ by the Union government and the Army. The human rights body, in a press release, said it has taken suo-motu cognisance of the case and sought a detailed report from the respondents within six weeks.Also Read | Civilian killings in Nagaland a case of ‘mistaken identity’, laments Amit Shah“NHRC notice to the Centre and Nagaland Government over reported botched up operation against militants by Army Para Commandos resulting in the deaths of civilians,” it said in a tweet. NHRC notice to the Centre and the Nagaland Government over reported botched up operation against militants by Army Para Commandos resulting in the deaths of civilians.Read: https://t.co/iLw1NuAaWv@PIBKohima @DGP_Nagaland @CmoNagaland @ANI @PTI_News @PIB_IndiaThe release stated that the Commission has issued notices to the Union defence secretary, Union home secretary and, from the Nagaland government’s side, the chief secretary and state police chief. “The report is expected to include the status of the inquiry being conducted by the Special Investigation Team (SIT), relief granted to the next of kin of the deceased, status of the medical treatment being provided to the injured and the cases registered against the persons/officers responsible for the incident,” the statement read.Also Read | Nagaland Firing: Nagaland police files FIR against army soldiers for civilian deathsApprising the Parliament on Monday, Union home minister Amit Shah said that the team will submit its report in a month’s time.
06-12-2021||India||‘S-400 deal being implemented despite US attempts to undermine cooperation’: Lavrov||The deal between India and Russia for S-400 air defence systems is being implemented despite US attempts to “undermine this cooperation”, Russian foreign minister Sergey Lavrov said on Monday.India and Russia are on the same page on the situation in Afghanistan as both sides want the Taliban to deliver on commitments to form an inclusive government and prevent terrorism and instability from spilling over into neighbouring countries, Lavrov said.Talking to the media after the maiden India-Russia 2+2 dialogue of defence and foreign ministers, Lavrov said the Russian side raised its concerns about “Indo-Pacific strategies” and “non-inclusive blocs” such as AUKUS, the defence alliance between Australia, the UK and the US, during the talks.“The S-400 deal doesn’t have only symbolic meaning, it has a very important practical meaning for the Indian defence capability and the situation is basically underway. The deal is being implemented,” he said, referring to the $5.4-billion deal signed by India to acquire five S-400 systems. “We witnessed attempts on the part of the US to undermine this cooperation and make India obey the American orders to follow the American vision of how this region should be developed. Our Indian friends clearly and firmly explained that they are a sovereign country and they will decide on whose weapons to buy and who is going to be a partner of India in this and the other areas,” he said.Russia-India ties are a “specially privileged strategic partnership” and Monday’s meeting of a bilateral military-technical commission is a “manifestation that this cooperation is in the interest of both countries”, Lavrov added.Russia continues to be a key supplier of military hardware to India, which has diversified arms purchases in recent years by acquiring combat jets, helicopters and advanced weapons from the US, France and Israel.The US has threatened to impose sanctions on the S-400 deal under the Countering America’s Adversaries Through Sanctions Act (CAATSA), but India has said its defence procurements are guided by a policy of strategic autonomy. The delivery of the first S-400 system to India coincided with President Vladimir Putin’s visit for an annual summit.Lavrov said the situation in Afghanistan was discussed at the 2+2 meeting. “We share the view with [India] that the Taliban must deliver on their commitments to ensure an inclusive government structure and respect human rights, prevent the drug threat and the terrorist threat remaining in the country, and prevent instability from spilling over from Afghanistan into neighbouring countries, primarily into Central Asia,” he said.Russia is opposed to any attempts by the US or NATO to shift forces withdrawn from Afghanistan to neighbouring countries, and the Central Asian states have said this will be unacceptable, he said. India and Russia also agreed to work closely together, including within the Shanghai Cooperation Organisation (SCO), to coordinate their actions on Afghanistan. Lavrov, who has for long been critical of the Indo-Pacific concept, said the Russian side had focused at the 2+2 meeting on developments in Asia-Pacific, where “elements of instability have been accumulating which could undermine the universal framework of cooperation”. He added, “We expressed our concern about the activities taking place in this region under the slogan of Indo-Pacific strategies, where we see non-inclusive blocs. The latest example is AUKUS, a military-technical alliance between the US, Great Britain and Australia and there are a lot of questions on the plans to supply to Australia or make in Australia nuclear-powered submarines.” Lavrov questioned whether these plans comply with International Atomic Energy Agency (IAEA) norms and non-proliferation rules. “From a regional perspective, to what extent will Australia stick to its obligation on the nuclear-weapons-free zones in the Southern Pacific?” he said.The Indian side, Lavrov contended, “distanced themselves from the AUKUS bloc”. He said, “They are part of the Quad group, which brings together India, Japan, Australia and the US, and India...emphasises its interest in economic infrastructure and transport projects within this framework.” 
06-12-2021||India||Nagaland civilian killings: Congress delegation to visit state, submit report within 7 days||The Congress party on Monday constituted a four-member delegation to visit Nagaland, where a botched up military operation and ensuing violence led to the killing of 14 civilians, a release said.The delegation would submit a report to the party’s interim president Sonia Gandhi within seven days.“Congress President has constituted a delegation comprising the following members to visit Nagaland and report on matters related to the recent incidents of killing of innocent citizens and sequential violence in Mon district in Nagaland,” an order from the party on Monday showed.The four members included the All India Congress Committee’s (AICC) general secretary Jitendra Singh, AICC in-charge for Nagaland Ajoy Kumar and party lawmakers Gaurav Gogoi and Anto Antony.Also read | Rahul Gandhi, Mamata Banerjee condemn Nagaland killingsOn Sunday, party leader Rahul Gandhi condemned the incident and demanded the Centre must reply regarding the deaths. “What exactly is the home ministry doing when neither civilians nor security personnel are safe in our own land?” he tweeted.Congress general secretary Priyanka Gandhi Vadra too expressed her condolences and said that the families of those that lost their lives deserved justice.Union home minister Amit Shah addressed both Houses of Parliament on Monday regarding the Nagaland incident that has caused a furore among people and opposition party leaders alike.Amit Shah said the army had information regarding the movement of extremists in the Mon district and laid an “ambush” in the suspected area. He also said a vehicle arrived at the location and was signalled to stop but it tried to speed away. “On suspicion that the vehicle was carrying extremists, the personnel fired at it killing 6 of 8 people,” he said.“Six out of eight people in the vehicle died. It was later found to be a case of mistaken identity. Two others who were injured were taken to the nearest health centre by the army. After receiving news of this, local villagers surrounded the army unit, set two vehicles on fire and attacked them,” he added.Opposition parties demanded a discussion following Shah’s statements but, were refused the opportunity. Congress leader Mallikarjun Kharge said the opposition has many questions but the House was adjourned following Shah’s statement.“We wanted to ask about compensation to the bereaved families, as well as about compensation from the central government. But we were not given an opportunity,” news agency ANI quoted Kharge as saying later.“He (Amit Shah) just spoke and said in the last paragraph that "government regrets". What does that mean? It means that you committed a mistake,” he added.Meanwhile, the Trinamool Congress also announced it would send a five-member party to Nagaland to meet with the families of the victims.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/nagaland-civilian-killings-congress-delegation-to-visit-state-submit-report-within-7-days-101638796948633.html
06-12-2021||India||Nagaland police files FIR against army soldiers for civilian deaths||KOHIMA: Nagaland police has registered a case on its own against the 21st para special forces for killing 13 civilians suspecting them as militants at Tiru-Oting area of Mon district in Nagaland 48 hours ago.The incident happened on December 4 afternoon when coal miners of Oting village were returning home from Tiru on a pickup truck, police stated.“On reaching at Langkhao between Upper Tiru and Oting village, security forces fired at the vehicle without any provocation, resulting to the killing of many Oting villagers and seriously injured many others,” according to the first information report (FIR) lodged at Tizit police station.At the time of the incident, there was no police guide for the security forces, nor did the security forces make any requisition to the police station to provide a guide for their operation, the FIR mentioned.“Hence, it is obvious that the intention of the security forces is to murder and injure civilians,” the FIR said while registering a case for necessary action against the culprits.Also Read: ‘We regret loss of life, monitoring situation’: Amit Shah tells Lok Sabha on Nagaland firingThe director general of police (DGP) of Nagaland and commissioner Nagaland, who visited the site of the firing on Sunday, have submitted a spot report on the sequence of events to the state government.The Nagaland government has constituted a special investigation team (SIT) to investigate the firing. Home minister Amit Shah made statements in both houses of Parliament, saying that the army has regretted the incident, the FIR on the firing has been transferred to the state crime police station and will be investigated by a SIT, and that the Union government regrets the incident.The incident happened when the army laid an ambush for insurgents on the basis of intelligence inputs, and when the vehicle with the workers neared the spot and was asked to stop, it tried to flee, resulting in the firing that killed six of the eight people in the vehicle, Shah said in the statement in Parliament.Another seven civilians were killed when angry villages surrounded the army team, burnt two vehicles and assaulted them, resulting in the death of one soldier and forcing the team to fire at the crowd. The home minister termed the killing of the workers a case of mistaken identity.The army has launched an investigation into the matter.The security forces personnel tried to hide the dead bodies of the six villagers by wrapping and loading them in a pickup truck other than the one on which the villagers were travelling, according to the report by the DGP and the commissioner.The report said on December 4 evening, eight villagers were returning home from coal mining work at Tiru in an open pickup truck, when they were killed by security forces (21 Para Special Force based in Assam).Six of them were killed on the spot, leaving two critically injured. The incident happened some few kilometers away from Oting village.“On hearing the gunshots, the villagers went to the spot being apprehensive that the individuals did not return home from work. On reaching the spot, they found the pickup truck and the Special Forces Personnel trying to hide the dead bodies of the six villagers by wrapping and loading them in another pickup truck (Tata Mobile) apparently with the intention of taking the dead bodies to their base camp,” the report added.After seeing the dead bodies in the vehicle, the report said, violence broke out between the villagers and the security personnel where the irate villagers burnt three vehicles belonging to the security personnel.“In the melee, the security personnel again opened fire against the villagers, which led to the death of 7 (seven) more villagers and eyewitnesses have confirmed that the Special Forces Personnel opened fire indiscriminately as they fled from the scene towards Assam side even firing on the coal mine hutments on the way,” the spot report said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/nagaland-firing-nagaland-police-files-fir-against-army-soldiers-for-civilian-deaths-101638797567730.html
06-12-2021||India||‘Unique model of interstate friendship’: PM Modi welcomes Russia’s Putin||Prime Minister Narendra Modi and Russian President Vladimir Putin met on Monday as India and Russia kicked off their first '2+2' ministerial dialogue to elevate the age-old ties between the two nations.PM Modi, who hosted the Russian president in New Delhi’s Hyderabad House, said the coronavirus pandemic could not dent the relationship between both nations and ties continue to strengthen between the two.????? ??????????, ?-? ?????????! Welcome to India my friend President Putin. Our meeting today will strengthen our Special and Privileged Strategic Partnership. The initiatives that we take today will further increase the scope of our cooperation to new areas. @KremlinRussia pic.twitter.com/v699GK4BEM“Despite the challenges posed by COVID, there is no change in the pace of growth of India-Russia relations. Our special & privileged strategic partnership continues to become stronger,” PM Modi said.“In the last few decades, the world witnessed many fundamental changes and different kinds of geopolitical equations emerged but the friendship of India and Russia remained constant. The relation between India and Russia is truly a unique and reliable model of interstate friendship,” he added.Putin also said India is a time-tested ally and a world power and both countries are looking forward to the future together. “We perceive India as a great power, a friendly nation, and a time-tested friend. The relations between our nations are growing and I am looking into the future,” Putin said.Putin, addressing the press in New Delhi, said both nations will continue to remain partners to spur growth in fields like the energy sector, innovation, space, and the production of coronavirus vaccines and medicines.Earlier in the day, India and Russia signed an agreement for the procurement of more than 600,000 AK-203 assault rifles through Indo-Russia Rifles Pvt Ltd, under the military-technical cooperation arrangement for 2021-31. It also renewed military-technical cooperation for another 10 years in the process.Putin is meeting PM Modi for the second after they spoke in 2019 on the sidelines of the BRICS summit. This is Putin’s second trip abroad following the Covid-19 pandemic. He met US President Joe Biden in Geneva in June.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/unique-model-of-interstate-friendship-pm-modi-welcomes-russia-s-putin-101638796790583.html
06-12-2021||India||India, Russia conclude AK-203 deal, renew 10-yr pact for military cooperation||India and Russia on Monday concluded a much-awaited ₹5,100-crore deal for the joint production of more than 600,000 AK-203 assault rifles at a facility in Uttar Pradesh’s Amethi district to advance self-reliance in the defence manufacturing sector, government officials said. The deal was finalised at the 20th meeting of the India-Russia Inter-Governmental Commission on Military & Military Technical Cooperation (IRIGC-M&MTC) led by defence minister Rajnath Singh and his Russian counterpart Sergey Shoigu.The two countries also renewed their military-technical cooperation arrangement for 2021-31, the officials said. The IRIGC-M&MTC meeting took place ahead of the annual summit between Prime Minister Narendra Modi and President Vladimir Putin on Monday.On Saturday, the government announced that it had cleared the plan to manufacture AK-203 rifles in Uttar Pradesh in a joint venture called Indo-Russian Rifles Private Limited (IRRPL) that was formed by Advanced Weapons and Equipment India Limited and Munitions India Limited, and Russia’s Rosoboronexport and Kalashnikov. The Indian and the Russian entities hold a share capital of 50.5% and 49.5%, respectively.Advanced Weapons and Equipment India Limited and Munitions India Limited are two of the seven defence firms carved out of the erstwhile Ordnance Factory Board in October.Singh described Russia as India’s long-standing special and privileged strategic partner, adding the relations between the two countries were time-tested and based on shared interests in multilateralism and global peace and prosperity. He said the close cooperation with Russia was not targeted against another country. “We hope that our cooperation will bring peace, prosperity and stability to the entire region.”The AK-203 rifles will replace INSAS rifles inducted more than three decades ago. “The contract ends the long quest of Indian Army to replace ageing INSAS rifles with a modern weapon. The AK-203 assault rifle with proven technology will enhance the combat potential of soldiers to adequately meet present and future operational challenges,” said a senior government official. The 7.62mm X 39mm caliber AK-203 rifle has an effective range of 300 metres. AK-203 is a reliable weapon with reduced flash and recoil, better ergonomics and other modern features, and it will boost the morale of soldiers, he added.The agreement envisages the production of 601,247 rifles, of which the first 70,000 units will be made with the transfer of technology from Kalashnikov to IRRPL. The remaining 531,000 rifles will be fully indigenous, the officials said.The entire lot of 601,247 rifles will be produced in 10 years, they added. India and Russia signed an Inter-Governmental Agreement (IGA) for the AK-203 project in February 2018.“The Kalashnikov series weapons are the simplest to operate, they are tested weapons and the metallurgy is one of the best. It will enhance the existing small arms capability of the army,” said former Northern Army commander Lieutenant General BS Jaswal (retd). The two countries also signed protocols on amending a 2019 agreement between India and Russia on cooperation in the field of manufacturing Kalashnikov series small arms in the country, and on military and military-technical cooperation to discuss and implement the agreed agenda for defence cooperation, the officials said. There was no official word from the government on the delivery of the first squadron of S-400 air defence systems – part of a $5.4-billion contract with Russia for five systems – but it is expected to be completed anytime. Russian officials have said that the delivery of components for the air defence systems has already begun. Against the backdrop of US threats to impose secondary sanctions on the S-400 deal under the Countering America’s Adversaries Through Sanctions Act (CAATSA), the officials said India follows a policy of strategic autonomy when it comes to defence procurements and national security interests.
06-12-2021||India||US trying to undermine S-400 deal, India has shown it’s a sovereign country: Russia’s Lavrov||Russian foreign minister Sergei Lavrov on Monday hailed the S-400 air defence missile systems deal between India and his country, saying the US tried to strong-arm India into opting out of the pact but New Delhi went through anyway.“We witnessed attempts on the part of the United States to undermine this cooperation and to make India obey the American orders, to follow the American vision of how this region should be developed,” Lavrov was quoted as saying by news agency ANI.“Our Indian friends clearly and firmly explained that they are a sovereign country. They will decide whose weapons to buy and who is going to be a partner of India in this and in other areas,” Lavrov, who is in India, said.The Russian foreign minister was referring to the Countering America's Adversaries Through Sanctions Act (CAATSA) that the US uses to bring sanctions against nations that have economic and defence ties to Russia, North Korea and Iran.The US federal law allows the triggering of sanctions against nations that aim to procure major defence hardware from Russia. This was brought as a response to Russia's annexation of Crimea in 2014 and its alleged meddling in the 2016 US presidential elections.The US said in November it is yet to determine whether it will waive those sanctions with respect to the deal between India and Russia. “We have not made a determination on a potential waiver with respect to Indian arms transactions with Russia. CAATSA does not have a blanket or country-specific waiver provision,” the US state department said in a statement.“We urge all of our allies and partners to forgo transactions with Russia that risk triggering sanctions under the Countering America's Adversaries Through Sanctions Act (CAATSA),” the US urged through its statement while highlighting that it values its strategic partnership with India and expects that the defence partnership between both nations can continue.The US, which is also India’s main defence partner, has expressed its disapproval towards the deal but New Delhi has contended the negotiations began 5 years before CAATSA was enacted, according to a report by HT.A purchase agreement was signed in 2015 and the deal worth $4.5 billion was finalised in 2018. The US earlier sanctioned trade partner China and Nato ally Turkey for purchasing the systems but New Delhi did not budge despite the efforts made to stall the acquisition during the Trump era.New Delhi’s stance could also be emboldened following the AUKUS initiative which took the Quad nation’s - of which India is a partner - by surprise and even angered France as Australia cancelled the submarine deal to sign a fresh deal with the US. Russia being India’s longtime defence partner since its Independence also plays a huge role in the ties between both nations.India and Russia signed four defence agreements on Monday as both nations kicked off the first-ever India-Russia '2+2' ministerial dialogue. One of the main agreements signed by both nations will see the Indian Army get more than 600,000 AK-203 assault rifles manufactured through Indo-Russia Rifles Private Limited (IRPL) at a cost of ₹5,100 crore||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/us-trying-to-undermine-s-400-deal-india-has-shown-it-s-a-sovereign-country-russia-s-lavrov-101638794100713.html
06-12-2021||India||RDIF say it expects Sputnik Light to be authorised in India soon||The backer of Russia’s Sputnik Light single shot Covid-19 vaccine said on Monday it has presented data from additional clinical trials to India’s regulator and expects the jab to be authorised in the country soon. The Russian Direct Investment Fund (RDIF), Russia’s sovereign wealth fund, said it has also provided India’s regulator with documents for registering Sputnik M, a variant of the vaccine for adolescents aged 12-17. The RDIF said these moves were part of efforts to expand cooperation between India and Russia in the fight against Covid-19. The Sputnik V vaccine is already used in India following the grant of emergency use authorisation in April this year. Russian foreign minister Sergey Lavrov said during a media interaction in New Delhi that talks on the production of Sputnik Light in India were nearing completion, though he didn’t give details. Asked about plans to begin production of Sputnik Light in India in December, Lavrov said: “The talks on Sputnik Light are about to be completed and Sputnik V is already being produced in India. We are talking about several hundred million doses per year.” There was no word from the Indian side on the matter.The RDIF said in a statement, “Currently, RDIF is actively cooperating with India’s regulatory authorities on registration of Sputnik Light (the one-shot vaccine based on human adenovirus serotype 26, the first component of the Sputnik V) as a standalone vaccine and a universal booster and expects it to be authorised in the country soon”. RDIF’s partner, Dr Reddy’s Laboratories, has conducted additional clinical trials of Sputnik Light in India and “positive data” from these trials has been presented to India’s regulator, the statement added. The fund has also provided India’s regulator with documents for registering Sputnik M, which was registered by Russia’s health ministry on November 24. It is a new member of the Sputnik vaccines family and is currently being offered to international markets. The statement said that subject to a “positive decision of India’s authorities, Sputnik M could become the first foreign-registered vaccine for adolescents in the country”. RDIF CEO Kirill Dmitriev said, “Russia and India have joined forces since the beginning of the pandemic, with this strategic partnership including production of Sputnik V and Sputnik Light vaccines. Several agreements with partners in India have helped the RDIF to significantly increase our production capabilities. “We are ready to offer the Sputnik Light vaccine and the Sputnik M vaccine for adolescents to support strong herd immunity in India and continue saving millions of lives.” Sputnik V has been authorised in 71 countries with a total population of more than four billion people. RDIF has reached agreements with leading pharmaceutical companies, including Serum Institute of India, Gland Pharma, Hetero Biopharma, Panacea Biotec, Stelis Biopharma, Virchow Biotech and Morepen, to produce the Russian vaccines and India is now the leading production hub for Sputnik V and Sputnik Light. The latest findings by the Gamaleya Center, the developer of the Sputnik vaccines, which are based on data from 28,000 subjects in Moscow, have shown that Sputnik Light administered standalone has 70% efficacy against infection from the Delta variant of the Coronavirus during the first three months after vaccination. The vaccine is 75% effective among subjects under the age of 60. Efficacy of Sputnik Light as a booster against Delta variant for other vaccines will be close to the efficacy against the Delta variant of the Sputnik V vaccine – more than 83% against infection and more than 94% against hospitalisation. Interim results of a study in Argentina on combining Sputnik Light and vaccines produced by AstraZeneca, Sinopharm, Moderna and Cansino have shown Sputnik Light is an “effective universal booster”, the statement said. Results of a separate joint clinical trial of a combination of Sputnik Light with the AstraZeneca jab have demonstrated it “induces strong immunity and has a high safety profile”.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/rdif-say-it-expects-sputnik-light-to-be-authorised-in-india-soon-101638794807959.html
06-12-2021||India||‘Pakistan man, 22, crossed border fence to meet Mumbai woman he loved; caught’: Cops||JAIPUR: A 22-year-old young man from Pakistan’s border district Bahawalpur has been arrested after he crossed the border fence in Rajasthan’s Sri Ganganagar late on Saturday night. Mohammad Amir told the border guards who caught him that he was on his way to Mumbai to meet the woman he befriended on Facebook and fell in love with, people aware of the matter said.The young man only had a mobile phone and some currency notes on him when he was caught on Saturday by a patrol team of the Border Security Force in Anupgarh, one of district’s 10 tehsils, Anand Sharma, superintendent of police, Sri Ganganagar district said.The details are still sketchy. Sharma stressed the security agencies are yet to verify his version. A joint team of intelligence officers will start interrogating him, possibly on Tuesday, and cross-check every claim that he has made.Sharma said the man, who identified himself as Mohammad Amir from Hasilpur tehsil in Bahawalpur district, told security officials during his preliminary interrogation that he had been in touch with a Mumbai-based woman he met on Facebook. Over time, they became good friends, exchanged numbers and according to his version, they also decided to get married.Mohammad Amir told officials that he did apply for an Indian visa to travel to Mumbai but the request was denied by Indian authorities.But he wouldn’t let it be and decided to still travel to Mumbai.“On being denied a visa, he planned to cross the border fence to meet the girl,” Sharma said.How did he intend to travel from the remote border location to Mumbai 1200km away? Amir wasn’t sure. “When we asked him, Amir said he would have probably walked to Mumbai,” Sharma said.It isn’t clear how he reached the India-Pakistan border location on the Pakistani side either. The Hasilpur tehsil where Amir lives is about 150km from the international border.Officials said they have not approached the woman in Mumbai yet. This will be done only if required after Amir’s joint interrogation.It is unlikely that Amir will be able to meet the Mumbai woman for now.“If the story narrated by the youth is true and there is nothing suspicious, then he will be handed over back to Pakistan,” said Sharma, outlining the best-case scenario for the 22-year-old.
06-12-2021||India||‘94% teaching, 88% non-teaching staff vaccinated in schools across country’: Centre||At least 93.54% of teaching and 87.45% non-teaching staff working in schools across the country have been either fully or partially vaccinated against Covid-19 infection with four states achieving 100% coverage, the Centre informed the Parliament on Monday. In a written response to a question in Lok Sabha, Union education minister Dharmendra Pradhan submitted state-wise data on the vaccination status of teaching and non-teaching staff employed in schools on Monday. As per the data collected from 36 states and union territories, covering both private and public schools, 100% of teaching and non-teaching staff have received at least one shot of vaccine in Andaman and Nicobar Islands, Ladakh, Lakshadweep and Tripura. Besides, Maharashtra has covered its 100% teaching staff and Meghalaya has covered 100% of its non-teaching staff. The data is crucial at a time when a new variant of concern has been detected across several countries including India. More than 22 states and UTs have already reopened the schools in the country. Experts say teachers’ vaccination play a crucial role in the safe reopening of schools amid the pandemic. In terms of the state-wise breakup, Uttar Pradesh has witnessed 91.9% vaccination among teaching and 88.3% among non-teaching staff. Uttarakhand has recorded 95.2% among teaching and 95.25% among non-teaching staff. Odisha achieved 95.65% among teaching and 93.29% among non-teaching staff; Kerala achieved 97.39% among teaching and 97.84% among non-teaching and in Bihar, 98.9% teaching and 96.6% non-teaching staff have been vaccinated. Delhi has achieved 98.45% vaccination among teaching and 98.40% among non-teaching staff. Meanwhile, several states still have low vaccination coverage among non-teaching staff. For instance, in Andhra Pradesh, 63.85% of the non-teaching staff has been vaccinated against 96.42% coverage among teaching staff. In Manipur, 70.34% of the non-teaching staff received at least one vaccine shot against 80.84% coverage among teaching staff; and in Haryana, 68.06 % of non-teaching staff have been covered against 78.94% teaching staff, the data stated.
06-12-2021||India||‘No cognisable offence made out’: Delhi Police informs court on ML Khattar’s ‘provocative’ speech against farmers||The Delhi Police on Monday informed a city court that ‘no cognisable offence is made out’ against ML Khattar, the Haryana chief minister, for a ‘provocative’ speech, evidently aimed at farmers protesting against the three central agricultural laws. The reason, the police said, was that the video of the said speech was recorded in Chandigarh, which, it said, is outside its jurisdiction.Also Read | Khattar asks party workers to wield sticks, kicks up row“From the contents of the complaint, and the alleged video attached with the complaint, no cognisable offence is made out. As per the complaint, the alleged video has been recorded in Chandigarh, which does not fall in the jurisdiction of Delhi,” the force submitted in its Action Taken Report (ATR) to the Rouse Avenue Court, which, on November 18, sought details of action taken by the police on a plea filed by advocate Amit Sahani seeking action against the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) leader.In his petition, Sahani, who sought an FIR against Khattar, submitted that ‘such hate speech and incitement by an incumbent chief minister could have led to a law and order situation in Delhi-NCR.’ He added, “The contents of the video make it abundantly clear that the accused has committed an offence under sections 109, 153, 153A and 505 of the Indian Penal Code by giving provocative speeches with intention to cause a riot and promoting enmity between different groups.”The Haryana CM made the said speech on October 4, while addressing the BJP's kisan morcha workers. “We will have to encourage upcoming farmers groups. In every district, particularly in north and northwest, we will have to raise groups of 500-700 kisan volunteers. And then, Sathe Shathyam Samacharet (tit-for-tat). Pick up sticks. Don't worry about bail. If you spend a couple of months (behind bars), you will become a leader,” he said.After massive outrage and widespread criticism, Khattar later withdrew his remarks, saying that he had no ‘malicious’ intention, adding that he was doing so as he did not want a law and order situation.(With ANI inputs)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/no-cognisable-offence-made-out-delhi-police-informs-court-on-ml-khattar-s-provocative-speech-against-farmers-101638787794689.html
06-12-2021||India||News updates from HT: Opposition continues protest in Rajya Sabha over suspension of MPs and all the latest news||Here are today-’s top news, analysis and opinion. Know all about the latest news and other news updates from Hindustan Times.Opposition continues to disrupt Rajya Sabha over suspension of MPsOpposition parties in the Rajya Sabha on Monday were unrelenting in their demand to reverse the decision to suspend 12 Members of Parliament (MPs) from the Upper House. Read moreIND vs NZ: Where does Team India stand at WTC points table after mammoth win over New Zealand in 2nd TestThe fourth day of the second and final Test between India and New Zealand in Mumbai saw the hosts etch a massive 372-run win over the hosts. Read moreKatrina Kaif-Vicky Kaushal wedding: Siblings leave from Mumbai, another sister and Anaita Shroff Adajania land in JaipurActor Katrina Kaif's family has started arriving in Jaipur for her wedding with Vicky Kaushal. On Monday afternoon, Katrina's elder sister Natasha Turquotte was spotted at the Jaipur airport. Read moreHow to fix phone battery draining fast problem: Top 5 tipsWhen you decided to buy a new phone, you check for the presence of all the essentials like latest processor, HD camera, good sound, long-lasting battery…. Wait! You bought a phone with the best battery option, but even then its battery is draining very fast? Well, that happens. Read moreBajaj Auto teases new-gen KTM RC 390 ahead of launchBajaj Auto has confirmed via KTM India's social media handles that the new-gen RC 390 will be launched in the Indian market very soon. Read moreTil Gul to tamarind; Rujuta Diwekar recommends 5 divine foods for winter seasonWinters are synonymous with delicious and nutritious food. Not only there is a lot to choose from but also our digestive system is supportive enough to let us indulge in winter delicacies that are not only mouth-watering but pack a nutritional punch. Read more||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/news-updates-from-ht-opposition-continues-protest-in-rajya-sabha-over-suspension-of-mps-and-all-the-latest-news-101638789369404.html
06-12-2021||India||SC extends protection from arrest for ex-Mumbai top cop Param Bir Singh||The Supreme Court said on Monday former Mumbai Police commissioner Param Bir Singh cannot be arrested in criminal cases filed against him and told the department it can continue to probe the allegations against him but can’t file any chargesheet against the former top cop over allegations of misconduct and corruption.The top court listed the matter for hearing again on January 11, 2022, and asked the Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI) to file its affidavit on the plea filed by Singh.The former Mumbai top cop is facing allegations of running an extortion racket along with dismissed assistant police inspector Sachin Vaze. The crime branch alleged that both of them along with two others were extorting hoteliers and bar owners in Maharashtra and the capital Mumbai.Param Bir Singh absconded after writing to chief minister Uddhav Thackeray alleging that former home minister Anil Deshmukh directed crime branch officials to collect ₹100 crore every month from businessmen in Mumbai.His letter to the chief minister came after his removal as the Mumbai Police commissioner. He was removed from office after explosives were found near Antilia, the residence of business tycoon Mukesh Ambani.Sachin Vaze, who was arrested for allegedly planting those explosives and the murder of Mansukh Hiren, whose car was used for the operation, earlier said that he collected extortion money from hoteliers and bar owners at the behest of Param Bir Singh, whom he referred to as ‘number one’.Param Bir Singh appeared in a Mumbai court after absconding for more than six months. He returned to Mumbai to assist with the probe following the Supreme Court’s order which granted him interim protection from arrest.The Maharashtra government last week removed him from the position of the director general of Maharashtra Home Guard due to dereliction of duty.There are five first information reports (FIRs) registered against him in Mumbai and Thane police stations between April 28 and August 20, 2021.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/supreme-court-extends-protection-from-arrest-for-former-mumbai-top-cop-101638789454818.html
06-12-2021||India||Civilian killings in Nagaland a case of ‘mistaken identity’, laments Amit Shah||Union home minister Amit Shah has expressed deep regret over the killings of 14 civilians during the weekend in Nagaland’s Mon district following a botched counter-insurgency operation, telling Parliament on Monday that it was a case of mistaken identity and the episode was being probed at the highest level.He said a Special Investigation Team (SIT) has been directed to investigate the civilian deaths and report back in a month’s time.Speaking at the Lok Sabha, Shah said, “It was a case of mistaken identity… an SIT has been directed to complete the probe within one month.” Recalling Saturday’s episode, Shah said the army had information on the movement of extremists in Oting, Mon, on the basis of which the security personnel laid an “ambush” in the suspected area.“Six out of eight people in the vehicle died. It was later found to be a case of mistaken identity. Two others who were injured were taken to the nearest health centre by the army. After receiving news of this, local villagers surrounded the army unit, set two vehicles on fire and attacked them,” Shah said.Also Read: Blackened India’s image: Nagaland CM asks Centre to repeal Afspa from NagalandThe home minister said that as a result of locals setting army vehicles on fire, a member of the army personnel died and several others were injured. “Security forces had to resort to firing for self-defence and to disperse the crowd. This caused the death of seven more civilians… some others were injured. Local administration and police tried to bring the situation to normalcy,” he said.The union home ministry has sent a secretary-level officer to Nagaland to get a clearer picture of the turn of events in order to avoid a similar episode. Shah said the situation in Nagaland was tense, but “under control”. He expressed regret over the killings and the violence and offered condolences to the families of the deceased. The episode was one of the deadliest escalations in recent times in the northeastern state. Nagaland has been rocked by insurgency for a long time and last weekend’s killings were one of many such escalations.After Shah’s statement, opposition parties sought some time to respond to his statement, but Lok Sabha speaker Om Birla turned down the demand.Congress MP Manickam Tagore said the Opposition was not satisfied with Shah’s statement and staged a walkout.“The home minister came and gave a very short response, and when we asked for a clarification, we were not allowed [to have it],” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/civilian-killings-in-nagaland-a-case-of-mistaken-identity-laments-amit-shah-101638789106936.html
06-12-2021||India||Global experiments with digital currency: Do stable coins have a role to play?||We’ll soon hear the clink of the digital rupee to keep up with the era of the cryptocurrency. In a way, it may wean you away from the volatile and unreliable tools for investment. A lot needs to be worked out in due course, including a new definition for a bank note to account for the incoming digital currency as well as the small matter of stability and risk elimination, something crypto currencies don’t do very well. This does make us wonder how have the experiments in other countries to counter crypto currencies with digital currencies worked out so far? And how will you be able to use them? Will this tie-in with the crypto wallets that you may already be using such as Coinswitch Kuber or CoinDCX or will there be a separate application launched by the government which will work as a digital Rupee wallet? And how will this be interoperable with payment methods such as UPI (Universal Payments Interface) and mobile wallets including Google Pay? A lot remains to be answered. India’s need for a digital rupee According to data by Bloomberg Wealth, the cryptocurrency market cap in India clocked $6.6 billion in May, up from $923 million at the same time last year. It is estimated that as many as 15 million Indians have investments in cryptocurrency. The government has been very clear that there is no chance that cryptocurrency will be considered legal tenders for payments. “While interest in Central Bank Digital Currencies (CBDC) is near universal now, very few countries have reached even the pilot stage of launching their CBDCs. A 2021 BIS survey of central banks found that 86% were actively researching the potential for CBDCs, 60% were experimenting with the technology and 14% were deploying pilot projects,” T Rabi Sankar, deputy governor, Reserve Bank of India said in July at a webinar. Cryptocurrencies such as Bitcoin and Ethereum, all use publicly available ledgers that trace transactions back to crypto wallets that were used. Yet, there are some cryptos that are meant to provide complete anonymity. These cryptos cannot be tracked. The route that any given transaction takes is meant to obfuscate means of tracing the source. It is impossible to chart a route for transactions done using private cryptocurrencies, opening them for potential deployment in money laundering and terror funding purposes. Digital currencies and fiat money: a handshake? There are two types of digital currencies which have a relation to fiat money, or a government-issued currency that is regulated and controlled by the central bank of that nation. First is the official currency, issued and regulated by the central bank. For instance, the Rupee is regulated by the Reserve Bank of India (RBI) while the Pound Sterling is regulated by the Bank of England, the central bank of the UK. Digital coins of these currencies will be regulated by the same rules which apply for the paper notes. These are referred to as Central Bank Digital Currency (CDBC). Also Read: Nothing ear (1) black edition arrives with carbon neutrality and crypto payments‘Stable’ crypto coins inspired by fiat money The other are crypto coins which fall in the category of stable coins. Why are they called stable coins? That is because these were designed by their makers to be cryptocurrency equivalents of fiat currencies, such as the US$. Not officially endorsed or affiliated in any way but linked to the real-world exchange value. The idea behind these coins is to eliminate the volatility (read, risk of losing your money) that is all too common with crypto currencies such as Bitcoin. Investors and holders stand to lose very little. For instance, there is a stable coin cryptocurrency called Tether, which is always going to hold value of $1 for each digital coin. The same is true for some popular stable coins such as USD Coin (USDC), Binance USD (BUSD), Pax Dollar (USDP) and Dai (DAI). An illustration of stability—the price of Tether over the past 12 months has swung between $0.9985 to $1.0023 per Tether coin, depending on the value of the US Dollar. Bitcoin, arguably the most popular cryptocurrency in the world and prone to volatility has seen lows of $18,058.9 and highs of $67,566 in the same period. Numbers by research firm McKinsey suggest nearly $3 trillion in stable coins such as Tether and USDC were transacted in the first half of 2021. If volatility had a buzzword, that would probably be very similar to cryptocurrency. Stable coins aren’t as risky, because they do have a centralised system (not the same as a central bank, but these are privately owned and run) linking it to an underlying unit of a fiat currency. But will this system hold up in case of a crisis, such as inflation of the underlying currency? The very idea of stable coins comes from the 1:1 ratio that is maintained with real currencies, and hence the value. We haven’t yet seen that put to the test, in the economic realm. Government experiments with official digital money Even as India embarks on the long and arduous path of identifying the contours of a digital rupee, some countries have dabbled with the idea as an antidote to the volatility of crypto currencies. Yet, they are very much in an experimental stage, evolving as times goes on. Nigeria has become the first African nation to introduce a digital currency. It is called the eNaira, the digital version of the nation’s currency, Naira. It will be used just like cash, in place of cash. “Unlike these crypto-assets, the eNaira is not a financial asset in itself but a digital form of a national currency and draws its value from the physical naira to which it is pegged at parity,” the International Monetary Fund (IMF) points out. Tajikistan announced a CBDC earlier this year. The Bahamas, Saint Lucia, Grenada, Antigua and Barbuda already have central bank digital currencies circulating in their financial systems. Earlier this year, China became the first major economy to issue a CBDC as part of a large-scale test. The People’s Bank of China says the digital renminbi (also called the yuan) is very much a legal tender for payments and holds the same value as yuan currency bills. In China, Digital Yuan can be transacted using a digital wallet that needs to be enabled and verified for each user. This starts with a phone number, that allows basic operations with daily transaction caps. A higher privilege wallet with unlimited daily usage can be signed up for at a bank, after identity verifications are done. As of June, e-CNY wallets in China had clocked 24 million users. Transactions of 62 billion Yuan already done, confirmed Mu Changchun, head of the PBOC’s Digital Currency Institute, at the Hong Kong Fintech Week last month. Canada became the first country to approve a Bitcoin-traded fund in February. The UK considers cryptocurrency held by citizens as property and investors pay taxes on crypto profits. Singapore has a similar definition for crypto ownership. In Japan, cryptocurrencies are recognised under the country’s Payment Services Act (PSA). Cryptocurrency is legal in most of the EU countries. More countries boarding the CBDC train UK says that consultations over a digital currency will start next year. “CBDC would be a new form of digital money issued by the Bank of England and for use by households and businesses for their everyday payments needs. It would exist alongside cash and bank deposits, rather than replacing them,” says the Bank of England. Japan has announced the “DCJPY” project for a digital currency linked to the Japanese Yen. This is a consortium of 74 Japanese firms, working to ensure wide compatibility. The companies that are part of this consortium include Mitsubishi UFJ Financial Group, Mizuho Financial Group, Sumitomo Mitsui Financial Group, Nippon Telegraph, East Japan Railway Company and Kansai Electric Power Company with all activities done in consultation with the Bank of Japan. The digital currency is expected to be issued sometime next year.
06-12-2021||India||Medics to take prior permission from health dept to speak to media: Kerala govt||Kerala Health Department on Sunday issued a notice stating that medical officers and health workers need prior permission from the department to speak to media publicly.In an order issued by Kerala Health Director V K Raju said that medical officers and health workers need to be cautious in sharing information with the media."Officers are not allowed to share information without prior permission from the department under any circumstances. In case of an emergency where it is necessary to provide information, they need to verify the facts and get prior sanction from the department," the notice said.The notice also pointed out that some information published on the news platforms regarding the department's day to day affair and other matters are not authoritative. It said that publishing such news will "mislead people" regarding the department's work and create "stigma about the spread of disease".||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/medics-to-take-prior-permission-from-health-dept-to-speak-to-media-kerala-govt-101638772752555.html
06-12-2021||India||Wasim Rizvi, former Shia Waqf board chief, converts to Hinduism||Wasim Rizvi, former Uttar Pradesh Shia Central Waqf Board chairman, quit Islam and converted to Hinduism in an event at Devi Temple in Dasna, Ghaziabad on Monday that was marked by rituals. The temple authorities also said Rizvi has decided to change his name to Jitendra Narayan Singh Tyagi. The conversion ceremony was held in the presence of Yati Narsimhanand Saraswati, the temple’s head priest.“I adopted the ‘Sanatan Dharma’ as it is one of the oldest religions,” Rizvi later said.Last month, he had drawn criticism after releasing a book titled “Muhammad” in which he reportedly made objectionable remarks.
06-12-2021||India||Keeping up with UP | Elections: Religion will be in focus||Uttar Pradesh may see a resurgence in religiosity with a flood of activities planned around three major shrines in Ayodhya, Kashi (Varanasi) and Mathura that have been on the agenda of the Sangh Parivar, which has been demanding what it sees as the liberation of the places associated with Ram, Shiva and Krishna, for decades.
06-12-2021||India||We regret loss of life, monitoring situation: Shah tells LS on Nagaland||We regret loss of lives, monitoring situation: Shah tells LS on Nagaland civilian deathsUnion home minister Amit Shah on Monday expressed deep regret over the deaths of as many as 14 civilians over the weekend in the Mon district of Nagaland in a botched counter-insurgency operation by the Indian Army and the violence thereafter.While addressing the Lok Sabha, Shah said the home ministry has been following the incident and is monitoring the developments closely. Shah said a special investigation team (SIT) has been formed to probe the incident and it will submit its report in a month’s time.The home minister informed the Lok Sabha that it was a case of mistaken identity and that the Indian Army acted on the basis of information about the movement of extremists in the Oting area of Mon.“On that basis, 21 commandos laid an ambush in the suspected area. As a vehicle reached there, it was signalled to stop but it started speeding away. On suspicion the vehicle was carrying extremists, the personnel fired at it killing 6 of 8 people,” Shah said."It was later found to be a case of mistaken identity," Shah added.Seven out of the 14 people killed in the Mon district were daily wage labourers. Following the deaths of the coal mine workers, angry villagers reached the spot and set alight two vehicles of the army after which security personnel fired a few more rounds killing more civilians.Shah said one soldier has died and many others were injured. "Security forces had to resort to firing for self-defence and to disperse the crowd. This caused the death of 7 more civilians and some others were injured. Local administration and the police tried to bring the situation to normalcy," he said while giving details of the incident.The current situation is tense but under control. “An FIR has been registered and keeping the seriousness of the incident in mind, the probe has been handed over to State Crime Police Station. The SIT has been constituted and has been directed to complete the probe within a month," the home minister said.The Indian Army has also set up a court of inquiry into the killings of the civilians and said the probe will be headed by a major general, people familiar with the developments told HT.Nagaland chief minister Neiphiu Rio has also ordered a high-level probe into the killings of civilians by security forces.The incident led to widespread criticism of the government from the opposition, the Nagaland chief minister as well as from the state’s citizens. Demonstrations and candlelight vigils were held condemning the deaths and the demand to repeal the Armed Forces Special Powers Act has grown in the aftermath of the incident.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/we-regret-loss-of-life-monitoring-situation-shah-tells-ls-on-nagaland-101638784686629.html
06-12-2021||India||Realtor in Porsche mows down two in Hyderabad hit-and-run case||A speeding Porsche driven by a 25-year-old realtor mowed down two men who were crossing the road at the upscale Banjara Hills area in Hyderabad in the early hours of Monday, the police said.The deceased were identified as Ayodhya Ram (26), an office assistant at Rainbow Children’s Hospital, and Devendra Kumar Das (29), a cook at the same hospital.The police later apprehended Ranjit Kumar Goud, a real estate developer from Uppal area on the city outskirts, who fled the spot soon after the accident. His Porsche Cayenne car bearing registration number was also seized by the police. Banjara Hills division’s assistant commissioner of police M Sudershan said the accident happened at around 1:30 am right in front of the hospital when Ayodhya Ram and Devendra Kumar Das were crossing the road on their way home after finishing their shifts.“The high-end car was travelling at a high speed towards Jubilee Hills, when it hit the victims, killing them on the spot,” Sudarshan said.Even after the accident, Goud did not stop the vehicle, which was chased by a police squad of the Jubilee Hills police station which was on night patrol and noticed the partially damaged car speeding on the road. The squad chased it to the residential complex at Road No 5 of Jubilee Hills, where it was being parked.Also Read: BMC to carry out surveys to target areas with low vaccination rate“On getting the alert from Banjara Hills police, the Jubilee Hills police took Goud and two other inmates of the car into custody,” the police officer said.A case under Section 304 (II) (culpable homicide not amounting to murder) and also under Motor Vehicles Act against Goud has been filed. “On suspicion of him being drunk at the time of the accident, he was sent to Osmania General Hospital for an alcohol test,” Sudershan said.The bodies of the victims, both from Gopalpur in Odisha, were shifted to the OGH morgue for post-mortem.
06-12-2021||India||Omicron: WHO chief says ‘deeply disappointed’ at curbs on flights from southern Africa||World Health Organization (WHO) director general, Tedros Adhanom Ghebreyesus, on Monday expressed disappointment at travel restrictions being imposed on flights from southern Africa, where the latest Covid-19 variant, Omicron, was first detected. He also thanked South Africa and Botswana, which reported the first cases of Omicron, for not hiding this new variant.“I thank South Africa and Botswana for rapidly detecting, sequencing and reporting this new Covid-19 variant. It is deeply disappointing to me that some countries continue to block direct flights from southern Africa due to the Omicron variant,” WHO quoted Ghebreyesus as saying at the ‘Partnership for African Vaccine manufacturing-From Aspiration To Action’ event. "I thank #SouthAfrica and #Botswana for rapidly detecting, sequencing and reporting this new #COVID19 variant. It is deeply disappointing to me that some countries continue to block direct flights from southern Africa due to the Omicron variant"-@DrTedros https://t.co/gvRuCdAMNnIn making this observation, the WHO chief reiterated his remarks from tweets on Sunday, in which he shared his ‘disappointment’ with the imposition of curbs and also expressed respect to the African countries for their ‘transparency and sharing’ with respect to the information related to the Omicron variant, which is also denoted as B.1.1.529, and has been classified as a Variant of Concern (VoC). Respect is owed to the science and technology expertise in African countries as well as their transparency and sharing, including data related to the Omicron variant of concern. This is helping to ensure a safer world for all people everywhere. #COVID19The discovery of B.1.1.529 came at a time when several countries were witnessing a spike in Covid-19 cases. This has led to countries, including India, announcing measures for air passengers arriving from southern Africa. India is also among the nations, more than 30 in number, where passengers have tested positive for Omicron.Also Read | India's Omicron tally rises to 21: Tracking the spread of new coronavirus strainThis also led to India deferring resumption of regular international commercial passenger flights, which was scheduled for December 15. International flight operations were suspended in March last year, when the first nationwide lockdown was announced.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/omicron-who-chief-says-deeply-disappointed-at-curbs-on-flights-from-southern-africa-101638783242959.html
06-12-2021||India||BMC to carry out surveys to target areas with low vaccination rate||Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation has planned surveys to determine area-wise vaccination status across the city.with the aim to increase double vaccine dose coverage after achieving 100% coverage of the city’s target population last month and 75% double dose coverage of the eligible residents, officials said. The surveys will enable the civic body to identify areas with comparatively low double vaccination rate for dedicated vaccination drives. At present, such data is unavailable, the officials quoted above added. Municipal commissioner Iqbal Singh Chahal last week ordered intensification of the vaccination drive in the light of the new Omicron variant of Sars Cov-2 virus that is considered to be highly infectious. He asked for identifying areas with low second dose administration rate for the purpose of launching dedicated drives there.A senior civic official said the surveys will be carried out on the lines of My Family My Responsibility surveys. “It is not possible to have this data otherwise as residents get vaccinated at any centre where a slot is available,” he said on condition of anonymity.Also Read: Resident doctors in Maharashtra join nationwide protest, to halt OPD dutyThe civic body is also targeting public and private commercial establishments with low rate of complete vaccination among employees. The campaign started at the ward level with assistant commissioners releasing mobile vaccination vans in commercially populated areas to encourage full vaccination.As of Saturday, 6,992,565 beneficiaries have been administered both doses, and 9,606,431 beneficiaries have received only the first dose. The target population estimated by BMC is 9,236,500 as per data collected during its My Family, My Responsibility surveys.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/bmc-to-carry-out-surveys-to-target-areas-with-low-vaccination-rate-101638783646227.html
06-12-2021||India||Blackened India's image: Nagaland CM asks Centre to repeal Afspa from Nagaland||Nagaland chief minister Neiphiu Rio on Monday called for the repeal of the Armed Forces (Special Power) Act, 1958, saying the "law has blackened the image of the country”.The renewed demand comes after as many as 14 civilians were killed in the Mon district of the northeastern state over the weekend after in a botched anti-insurgency operation by the Indian Army and retaliatory violence."We are asking the central government to remove Afspa from Nagaland," Neiphiu Rio was quoted as saying by news agency ANI.The Nagaland chief minister also said he has spoken to Union home minister Amit Shah on the issue. “He is taking the matter very seriously. We have given financial assistance to affected families," Neiphiu Rio said.The Union ministry of home affairs in June extended Afspa in Nagaland for another six months and it will remain in force in the northeastern state until December 31.Afspa is also in force in Assam, Manipur (except Imphal Municipal area), the Tirap, Changlang and Longding districts of Arunachal Pradesh and the areas under the jurisdiction of the eight police stations in the districts of Arunachal Pradesh, bordering Assam.Earlier in the day, Meghalaya chief minister Conrad K Sangma also said Afspa, which grants special powers to the armed forces to maintain public order areas designated as "disturbed" by the government, should be repealed.The killing of the civilians in Mon sparked a countrywide wave of condemnation and revived the old-running demand to repeal Afspa from the northeastern state. Civil rights groups and experts allege that the "draconian law" gives security forces a cover from committing atrocities on civilians.Members of Parliament also discussed the issue in the Lok Sabha on Monday, as they joined the demand to repeal Afspa from Nagaland.Stressing that emotional integration of people living in border areas is extremely important for the unity and integrity of the country, senior Congress leader Manish Tewari urged the government not to invoke immunity under the Afspa against those who are found guilty."The Afspa has not given powers to security forces to indiscriminately kill people,” said Tokheho Yepthomi of Nationalist Democratic Progressive Party (NDPP) Yepthomi.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/blackened-india-s-image-nagaland-cm-asks-centre-to-repeal-afspa-from-nagaland-101638783175120.html
06-12-2021||India||Major General to head army inquiry into civilian killings in Nagaland||The Indian Army has set up a court of inquiry into the killings of 13 civilians in a botched counter-insurgency operation in Nagaland’s Mon district on Saturday, officials familiar with the matter said on Monday. The inquiry will be headed by a major general, the officials said. The two-star officer is currently posted in the country’s Northeast. On Saturday, army personnel gunned down seven coal mine workers after mistaking them to be insurgents. Soon after the incident, angry villagers reached the spot and set ablaze two security vehicles, sparking off another round of firing by forces to control the situation in which several villagers and a soldier died. The gunning down of the civilians renewed the demand for the withdrawal of the Armed Forces Special Power Act (AFSPA) from the state. The Act, which grants special powers to the forces to maintain public order in “disturbed areas”, has been a contentious issue in the northeastern state, with civil society members saying that it gives security personnel impunity to carry out excesses and forces saying that it helps them maintain order in restive areas. The AFSPA bestows sweeping powers on the forces and prohibits prosecutions from being initiated without the go-ahead from the Centre, if the allegations are linked to the public duty of the accused. The Nagaland government on Sunday banned mobile internet and SMS services in the region to curb “circulation of inflammatory videos, pictures or text”. Also Read: Rahul Gandhi, Mamata Banerjee condemn Nagaland killingsA notification issued by the state home department banning the services alluded to the “apprehension of grave law and order problems” in the district and said “short message service (SMS), WhatsApp, Facebook and other social media platforms could be used for spreading of rumours, fake news and for circulating inflammatory text, pictures, videos etc, which may inflame passions and thus exacerbate the law-and-order situation.” The incident has turned the spotlight on the security situation in the Northeast and the conduct of counter-insurgency operations by security forces. Armed militants last month ambushed an Assam Rifles convoy near the porous India-Myanmar border in Manipur’s Churachandpur district, killing five soldiers including a colonel, his wife and their eight-year-old son.
06-12-2021||India||Boy beheads pregnant sister, takes selfies with severed head||A 19-year-old pregnant woman was allegedly beheaded by her brother with their mother’s help on Sunday for getting married to a man without the consent of her family in the Aurangabad district of Maharashtra, a report said.According to news agency ANI, the 38-year-old mother and 18-year-old brother allegedly dragged the head of the victim after killing her and displayed it before the woman’s neighbours.The news agency cited the police as saying they also told the woman’s neighbours they killed their daughter because she got married without their consent. They also took selfies with the head of the woman, who got married about six months ago, added the police.Also read | Bride shot at within hours of marriage at Rohtak villageAccording to the police, the mother and the brother went to the woman’s house on the pretext of reconciling with her. The woman’s husband left the room so that his wife, her brother and mother could talk privately, they said according to ANI.As the woman went to the kitchen to make tea, the brother who was carrying a sharp weapon attacked her and cut her throat, police officials told ANI.Also read | Man accused of cheating Mumbai woman, 31, after hacking her phone arrested: CopsThey added by the time the husband could come to her rescue, the brother of the victim allegedly beheaded her. The husband of the victim fled the house as he feared he would be attacked as well.The mother and the brother have surrendered at the Virgoan police station and confessed to the crime. They have been arrested, the police informed.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/boy-beheads-pregnant-sister-takes-selfies-with-severed-head-101638779378563.html
06-12-2021||India||Rajnath Singh points to ‘extraordinary militarisation’ of India’s neighbourhood||India is grappling with challenges arising from the “extraordinary militarisation” of its neighbourhood and “unprovoked aggression” on the northern border, and the country seeks partners who are responsive to its military requirements, defence minister Rajnath Singh said on Monday. Singh didn’t name any country in his televised opening remarks at the inaugural India-Russia 2+2 dialogue of defence and foreign ministers, but there was little doubt he was referring to China. Indian and Chinese troops have been engaged in a face-off in Ladakh sector since May 2020 and numerous reports have emerged of Beijing bolstering military facilities all along the Line of Actual Control (LAC). Russian defence minister Sergey Shoigu said bilateral military-technical cooperation is especially important in India-Russia relations, and that bodies of the two countries will cooperate to increase trust and security. He said he and Singh had finalised plans for future cooperation. Also Read: India, Russia conclude AK-203 deal, renew 10-year pact for military cooperation“The [Covid-19] pandemic, the extraordinary militarisation and expansion of armament in our neighbourhood, and the unprovoked aggression on our northern border since early summer of 2020 have thrown in several challenges,” Singh said. “Recognising that its development needs are colossal and that its defence challenges are legitimate, real and immediate, India seeks partners who are sensitive and responsive to India’s expectations and requirements,” he added. Singh said India is confident of overcoming these challenges with “strong political will and inherent capability of its people”. He added that during a bilateral meeting with Shoigu, he discussed the “emerging challenges India is confronted with and the enhanced requirement of India for closer military and military-technical cooperation with Russia”. Following the bilateral meeting, Singh tweeted that India “deeply appreciates Russia’s strong support” and hopes that “our cooperation will bring peace, prosperity and stability to the entire region”. He said in the tweet a number of agreements, contracts and protocols pertaining to small arms and military cooperation were signed at the bilateral meeting. In his opening remarks at the 2+2 meeting, Singh further said India hopes that “Russia will remain a major partner for India in these challenging circumstances”. The Indian side, he added, is seeking greater military-technical collaboration, advanced research, and co-development and co-production of defence equipment leading to self-reliance. “Separately, we proposed greater engagements in Central Asia and in the Indian Ocean region. India is a continuation of the vast Eurasian landmass and at the same time, central in the enormous Indian Ocean region. We are optimistic about Russia’s cooperation in all the domains,” he said. External affairs minister S Jaishankar, in his opening remarks, said the 2+2 meeting is being held at a critical juncture when the global geopolitical environment is in great flux, especially after the pandemic. “Our ties have been close and time-tested. In a world that has changed so much, they have been exceptionally steady,” he said, adding that the 2+2 meeting gives both sides a platform to discuss politico-military issues of mutual interest that are inter-related. These issues include the emergence of multipolarity, consequences of over-centralised globalisation, challenges such as terrorism, violent extremism, the situation in Afghanistan, which has repercussions for Central Asia, hotspots in West Asia, and maritime security. Russian foreign minister Sergey Lavrov said the new 2+2 mechanism will deepen traditional understanding and help reinforce the bilateral special and privileged strategic partnership. “Both Russia and India have a similar worldview of a more polycentric, more multipolar, more equitable world order. We advocate similar or identical positions on the most important political and military issues,” he said. 
06-12-2021||India||Opposition continues to disrupt Rajya Sabha over suspension of MPs||Opposition parties in the Rajya Sabha on Monday were unrelenting in their demand to reverse the decision to suspend 12 Members of Parliament (MPs) from the Upper House.During the question hour that was being held amid sloganeering by the Opposition, Trinamool Congress (TMC) leader Derek O’Brien while posing a question to jal shakti minister Gajendra Shekhawat, said, “I want to ask the water resources minister - why has democracy dried up in Parliament?”This prompted leader of the House Piyush Goyal to criticise the Opposition for creating ruckus in the House. The Opposition members objected to the minister’s statement and the House was adjourned till 2pm.Earlier, Rajya Sabha chairman M Venkaiah Naidu refused to take up the issue of suspension for discussion and informed the House that union home minister Amit Shah will be making a statement on the killings in Nagaland. The Opposition MPs however raised slogans which led to an adjournment within nine minutes of the House convening.Also Read: Wasim Rizvi, ex-chairman of Shia Waqf Board in UP, converts to HinduismWhen the House reassembled at noon, the protests continued and MPs trooped into the well of the House. Deputy chairman Harivansh Narayan Singh, who was then in the chair, urged the members to allow the Question Hour to proceed. Speaking outside the House, a union minister not wishing to be named said the opposition members had shown no inclination to either apologies or express regret over the incidents that led to the suspension of the 12 MPs. 
06-12-2021||India||Delhi govt to organise play on BR Ambedkar next month||The Delhi government will organise a mega play on the life of Dr BR Ambedkar, the chief architect of the Indian Constitution. Chief minister Arvind Kejriwal announced this on Monday, December 6, which is observed as Mahaparinirvan Divas to mark the death anniversary of Ambedkar, who fought for economic and social empowerment of Dalits in the country.“I want every children and adult to know about the life of Ambedkar ji. At that time he was the first Indian to have a doctorate degree and he had not one, but two doctorate degrees, and both from abroad. He was also the chairman of the seven member drafting committee of the Constitution of the independent India. He also contributed in eradicating the social scourge of untouchability in India,” Kejriwal said in a digital press briefing on Monday. Also Read: Delhi Police start probe into rumour of ₹350 fine for not voting“To spread his teachings and to let everyone know about his inspiring life, the Delhi government will be organising a mega play from January 5 at the Jawaharlal Nehru stadium. The play will be shown for about 50 times, each will be absolutely free for the public. The play will be of international standards. So, I request all of you to watch it once it starts next month,” the Delhi chief minister said. Talking about the Covid-19 situation in Delhi, Kejriwal said he is closely monitoring the situation. “The Omicron variant of Covid-19 has entered out country and the city. But, I request you all not to panic. I am personally monitoring the situation every day. I request all of you to continue wearing masks at all times and maintain social distancing,” he said.
06-12-2021||India||Range over 3 football fields, lightweight: All about AK-203 assault rifles||India and Russia on Monday concluded a ₹5,100-crore deal for the joint production of more than 500,000 AK-203 assault rifles at a facility in the Amethi district of Uttar Pradesh, officials said.The deal was finalised at a bilateral meeting between defence minister Rajnath Singh and his Russian counterpart Sergey Shoigu. The Cabinet Committee on Security (CCS) approved the project last week.Here’s more about the AK-203 rifles:1. The 7.62 X 39mm calibre AK-203 rifles will replace the INSAS rifles that have been in service for over three decades.2. The modern version of the Russian-origin rifle has an effective range of 300 metres or more than three football fields, is lightweight and robust.3. This assault rifle fires the much larger 7.62 mm rounds that have better penetrating power, while similar rifles with less stopping power fire the smaller 5.56 mm rounds.Also read | S-400, AK-203 rifles: Putin on a power-packed visit to India today4. The modern technology used in the new rifles will enable them to use hi-tech add-ons like special sights and grips, useful for special forces missions.5. The government has said these assault rifles will enhance the operational effectiveness of the Indian Army in counter-insurgency and counter-terrorism operations. 6. The Centre approved a plan to produce these AK-203 assault rifles at Korwa and the production will start soon, the Uttar Pradesh government in a statement last Saturday.Also read | Govt clears ₹5,100-cr project to make AK-203 rifles with Russia in Amethi7. The AK-203 rifles will be manufactured under a joint venture called Indo-Russian Rifles Private Limited. It was formed by Advanced Weapons and Equipment India Limited and Munitions India Limited and Russia’s Rosoboronexport and Kalashnikov.  8. The project is a joint venture with the Russian government under the ‘Make in India’ initiative of the Modi government.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/range-over-3-football-fields-lightweight-all-about-ak-203-assault-rifles-101638776229412.html
06-12-2021||India||Wasim Rizvi, ex-chairman of Shia Waqf Board in UP, converts to Hinduism||The former chairman of Uttar Pradesh Shia Waqf Board, Wasim Rizvi, converted to Hinduism (also known as Sanatan Dharma) on Monday. He offered milk on the Shiva Linga installed at Dasna Devi temple as part of the ritual, Hindustan Times’ sister publication Livehindustan reported.The ceremony took place at 10.30 am, in the presence of the chief priest of Dasna Devi temple Narsinghanand Saraswati, Livehindustan said. Vedic hymns were chanted as Rizvi quit Islam and entered Hinduism after a yagna.He will be associated with the Tyagi community. His new name will be Jitendra Narayan Singh Tyagi.
06-12-2021||India||News updates from HT: Security tightened in Ayodhya, Mathura on Babri demolition anniversary and all the latest news||Here are today’s top news, analysis and opinion. Know all about the latest news and other news updates from Hindustan Times.Security has been raised in Ayodhya and Mathura, two Hindu holy cities in Uttar Pradesh, on the anniversary of Babri mosque demolition on December 6. Read moreCongress leader and Lok Sabha member Shashi Tharoor stepped aside as the host of a talk show on state-run television channel Sansad TV, following Shiv Sena lawmaker Priyanka Chaturvedi’s decision to quit as a programme host on the channel on Sunday in protest of the suspension of 12 Rajya Sabha members of Opposition parties for alleged unruly behaviour. Read moreOpener Mayank Agarwal scored a gutsy 150 and aggressive 62 while the spinners picked 16 wickets between themselves across the two innings as India registered an emphatic 372-run victory on fourth morning of the second Test against New Zealand at the Wankhede Stadium in Mumbai to clinch the two-Test series 1-0. Read moreAudi India on Monday announced the introduction of a third variant on its A4 sedan at an ex-showroom price of ₹40 lakh. The Audi A4 Premium variant will now be available alongwith the Premium Plus and Technology variants. Read moreTadap, which marks the film debut of Suniel Shetty's son Ahan Shetty opposite Tara Sutaria, showed a decent growth on Sunday at the ticket counters. The film now stands at a total of around ₹13 crore. Read moreWhite sandy beaches, clear blue sea, and sunkissed locales seem to be the three words that define Bollywood's favourite holiday destination. Read more||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/news-updates-from-ht-security-tightened-in-ayodhya-mathura-on-babri-demolition-anniversary-and-all-the-latest-news-101638774068118.html
06-12-2021||India||India, Russia conclude AK-203 deal, renew 10-year pact for military cooperation||India and Russia on Monday concluded a much awaited deal worth ₹5,100 crore for the joint production of more than 500,000 AK-203 assault rifles at a facility in Uttar Pradesh’s Amethi district, officials familiar with the development said. The deal was finalised at a bilateral meeting between defence minister Rajnath Singh and his Russian counterpart Sergey Shoigu.The two countries also renewed their military-technical cooperation arrangement for 2021-31, the officials said.“India deeply appreciates Russia’s strong support for India. We hope that our cooperation will bring peace, prosperity and stability to the entire region. Glad that a number of agreements/contracts/protocols were signed pertaining to small arms and military cooperation,” Rajnath Singh tweeted on Monday.The development came ahead of the annual summit between Prime Minister Narendra Modi and President Vladimir Putin this evening.Apart from the bilateral meeting between the two defence ministers, the other events scheduled before the summit include a meeting between external affairs minister S Jaishankar and his Russian counterpart Sergey Lavrov, and the inaugural 2+2 dialogue of the defence and foreign ministers.Agreements in trade, space, technology and energy are expected to be signed during the summit.The two sides are looking forward to intense engagement on issues ranging from bilateral cooperation in trade, connectivity and energy to regional security concerns, such as the situation in Afghanistan.The government on Saturday approved the plan to manufacture AK-203 rifles in Uttar Pradesh under a joint venture called the Indo-Russian Rifles Private Limited that was formed by Advanced Weapons and Equipment India Limited and Munitions India Limited and Russia’s Rosoboronexport and Kalashnikov.The Cabinet Committee on Security (CCS) approved the project last week. The AK-203 rifles will replace INSAS rifles inducted more than three decades ago.Putin’s visit will have a major defence and security overhang, as previously reported. The delivery of the first squadron of S-400 air defence systems, which is part of a $5.4-billion contract with Russia for five squadron, is expected to be completed anytime. Russian officials have said that the delivery of components for the air defence systems has already begun.Against the backdrop of US threats to impose secondary sanctions on the S-400 deal under the Countering America’s Adversaries Through Sanctions Act (CAATSA), the officials said India follows a policy of strategic autonomy when it comes to defence procurements and national security interests.Also Read: Jaishankar, Lavrov speak of trust, confidence ahead of annual bilateral summitAt least 15 groups focused on economic cooperation between India and Russia have met virtually over the past two years amid the Covid-19 pandemic and the two sides have increased the target for two-way investments to $50 billion by 2025 as the earlier target of $30 billion had been achieved in 2018.India is also focusing on trade and investment opportunities in Russia’s Far East, including in coal and diamonds and for meeting manpower needs. As part of these efforts, 11 governors from the Far East have been invited to the Vibrant Gujarat meet of 2022.This is Putin’s second foreign visit since the Covid-19 outbreak – he travelled to Geneva in June for his first meeting with US President Joe Biden. Putin’s decision to travel to New Delhi reflects the importance attached by Russia to its special and privileged strategic partnership with India.
06-12-2021||India||Jaishankar, Lavrov speak of trust, confidence ahead of annual bilateral summit||The leadership of India and Russia have a relationship of great trust and confidence and a package of significant documents will be signed at the annual bilateral summit, external affairs minister S Jaishankar and his Russian counterpart Sergey Lavrov said on Monday. The ministers were speaking ahead of a bilateral meeting, which would be followed by the maiden India-Russia 2+2 dialogue of defence and foreign ministers, and the summit between Prime Minister Narendra Modi and President Vladimir Putin. Defence minister Rajnath Singh and his Russian counterpart Sergey Shoigu also held a separate meeting and co-chaired a session of the inter-government commission on military-technical cooperation. “For us, the annual India-Russia Summit is a unique event. Prime Minister Modi and President Putin share a relationship of great trust and confidence. The annual India-Russia summit is taking place after a gap of two years because of the [pandemic]. We are looking forward to some very significant outcomes from the summit,” Jaishankar said in televised opening remarks. Lavrov, speaking through a translator, added, “A whole package of significant documents has been drafted for signing [at the summit].” This was the fourth in-person meeting this year between Lavrov and Jaishankar, who said they would discuss bilateral ties and the global situation. He described the partnership between the two countries as “very special and very unique”. Jaishankar added, “We are very conscious that in a world of rapid geopolitical changes, [the India-Russia partnership] has in fact been remarkably steady and strong.” India and Russia are expected to sign up to 10 agreements in defence, trade, space, technology and energy during the annual summit. Ahead of Putin’s day-long visit, the Indian government cleared a plan for the joint production of more than 500,000 AK-203 assault rifles with Russia to boost self-reliance in defence manufacturing. The two sides will have an intense engagement on issues ranging from ways to deepen bilateral cooperation in trade, connectivity and energy to regional security concerns, such as the situation in Afghanistan. The delivery of the first squadron of S-400 air defence systems – part of a $5.4 billion contract with Russia for five systems – is coinciding with the visit. Russian officials have said that the delivery of components for the air defence systems has already begun. 
06-12-2021||India||India inks deal with Russia for procurement of AK-203 assault rifles||India and Russia on Monday inked agreements for the procurement of AK-203 assault rifles and protocols on amending cooperation in the field of Kalashnikov series small arms manufacturing. Defence minister Rajnath Singh and his Russian counterpart General Sergey Shoigu signed a contract for procurement of over six lakh AK-203 assault rifles through Indo-Russia Rifles Pvt Ltd and an agreement on military-technical cooperation from 2021-2031.Another agreement for protocol on amending agreement on cooperation in the field of Kalashnikov series small arms manufacturing was also signed.Singh expressed hope that the agreements will bring peace and stability to the entire region.“India deeply appreciates Russia’s strong support for India. We hope that our cooperation will bring peace, prosperity and stability to the entire region,” the defence minister wrote on Twitter.“Glad that a number of Agreements/Contracts/Protocols were signed pertaining to small arms and military cooperation,” he added.Speaking at the inaugural 2+2 interministerial dialogue between India and Russia, Singh said that the defence engagements between the two countries have progressed in an unprecedented manner."We hope Russia will remain a major partner for India in these challenging circumstances," he added.External affairs minister S Jaishankar said the 2+2 interministerial dialogue will address the emergence of "multipolarity and rebalancing". terrorism, violent extremism and radicalisation as prominent challenges facing the region. The minister also mentioned the wider repercussions of the ongoing situation in Afghanistan following the Taliban's takeover and stressed that maritime security and safety is another area of shared concern."We both have common interest in ASEAN centrality and ASEAN-driven platforms," he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/india-inks-deal-with-russia-for-procurement-of-ak-203-assault-rifles-101638773728724.html
06-12-2021||India||Ayodhya, Mathura under tight security on Babri mosque demolition anniversary||Security has been raised in Ayodhya and Mathura, two Hindu holy cities in Uttar Pradesh, on the anniversary of Babri mosque demolition on December 6. Civil police, Provincial Armed Constabulary (PAC) and central forces have been deployed at all strategic locations in Ayodhya, police officials said. Ayodhya’s senior superintendent of police Shailesh Pandey added that the number of devotees arriving at the temple town had gone up manifold. Security has also been upgraded substantially in Mathura to prevent any protest march or gathering in the city on Monday. Although all the major organisations and individuals have called off their plans for the day, the police have not lowered their guard. “No traffic will be allowed on roads leading to Sri Krishna Janambhoomi and adjoining Shahi Eidgah till Tuesday,” officials said. The Akhil Bharat Hindu Mahasabha (ABHM) had earlier given a call for ‘jalabhishek’ at what it described as the “real” birthplace of Lord Krishna inside the Shahi Eidgah that shares its boundary with Sri Krishna Janambhoomi. Although ABHM has withdrawn the call, the police are not taking any chances. Around 2,000 police personnel, besides Central Reserve Police Force have been stationed in and around the Krishna temple and Eidgah. “Section 144 of the criminal procedure code (CrPC) is in force, and anybody violating prohibitory orders will be dealt with strictly. Police is fully geared to maintain peace and tranquillity and to instil fear among those having nefarious designs,” said Mathura’s senior superintendent of police (SSP) Dr Gaurav Grover. Also Read | Krishna Janmabhoomi-Eidgah issue: Mathura Police issue traffic advisory “We have sought cooperation from the people of Mathura by not becoming part of any unlawful gathering or protest march and to not pay heed to those interested in spreading rumours. Vigil is being kept on social media, and police cyber cell is all prepared to punish those interested in damaging peace and tranquillity in the city,” the SSP said. “No permission has been granted for any event. Any call for a gathering will be dealt with seriously,” he added. A detailed traffic plan has been implemented to avoid congestion in the yellow zone area around Sri Krishna Janambhoomi. “We have mobilised adequate forces, including those from nearby districts for December 6. The city police will be assisted by PAC, beside the CRPF that is deployed at Sri Krishna Janambhoomi and adjoining Shahi Eidgah. The city has been demarcated in eight sectors, four zones and two super zones for efficient monitoring,” Mathura SSP said. ABHM national spokesperson Sanjay Jaat claimed he had been placed under an undeclared house arrest. There is a dispute over the land on which the Shahi Eidgah and Sri Krishna Janambhoomi are located in Mathura. Various litigations are on in the civil courts of Mathura by Hindu organisations and individuals who allege that the Eidgah was built after the demolition of a temple by Mughal emperor Aurangzeb at the site where Lord Krishna was born.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/ayodhya-mathura-under-tight-security-on-babri-mosque-demolition-anniversary-101638773505142.html
06-12-2021||India||Shashi Tharoor steps aside as Sansad TV host amid Rajya Sabha suspension row||Congress leader and Lok Sabha member Shashi Tharoor stepped aside as the host of a talk show on state-run television channel Sansad TV, following Shiv Sena lawmaker Priyanka Chaturvedi’s decision to quit as a programme host on the channel on Sunday in protest of the suspension of 12 Rajya Sabha members of Opposition parties for alleged unruly behaviour.“On reflection, and in solidarity with the protesting MPs, I have decided to suspend my hosting of the talk show “To the Point” on Sansad TV until such time as the suspension of MPs are revoked and a semblance of bipartisanship restored to the conduct of Parliament and functioning of Sansad TV,” Tharoor wrote in a letter.The Rajya Sabha MPs were suspended from the house on the first day of the winter session which began on November 29 for “unruly behaviour” during the previous monsoon session. Six of them including Phulo Devi Netam, Chhaya Verma, R Bora, Rajamani Patel, Syed Nasir Hussain and Akhilesh Prasad Singh were from the Congress, Dola Sen and Shanta Chhetri were from the Trinamool Congress, Priyanka Chaturvedi and Anil Desai were from the Shiv Sena, and the remaining two were Elamaram Kareem of the Communist Party of India (Marxist) and Binoy Viswam of the Communist Party of India (CPI).Also Read: Amit Shah to give statement in Parliament on Nagaland firing incidentTharoor said his continued involvement in hosting the show was no feasible considering his solidarity with the suspended parliamentarians. “As an MP who has gone every morning to greet protestors and express my solidarity with them, I am concerned that my continued involvement in hosting a show on Sansad TV would be seen as making me complicit in the undemocratic manner in which Parliamentary institutions are running,” he added.Sansad TV chief executive officer Ravi Capoor did not want to comment on the matter.On Sunday, Priyanka Chaturvedi resigned as the host of ‘Meri Kahani’ aired on Sansad TV. In her letter addressed to Rajya Sabha chairman and vice-president M Venkaiah Naidu, she said she felt “great anguish” but also “a sense of responsibility” towards her constitutional duties.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/shashi-tharoor-steps-aside-as-sansad-tv-host-amid-rajya-sabha-suspension-row-101638771638421.html
06-12-2021||India||Shashi Tharoor steps down as host of Sansad TV show in solidarity with suspended MPs||Congress Lok Sabha MP Shashi Tharoor on Monday stepped down as the host of talk show 'To the Point' that is aired on Sansad TV. In a statement issued on Monday, Thaoor expressed solidarity with the protesting MPs and said he has decided to suspend his hosting until “suspensions of MPs are revoked and a semblance of bipartisanship restored to the conduct of Parliament and the functioning of Sansad TV”.Tharoor has been hosting the talk show "To The Point" on Sansad TV."I believed that my accepting Sansad TV's invitation to host a show was in the best traditions of India's parliamentary democracy, reaffirming the principle that our political differences did not prevent us, as Members of Parliament, from participating fully in various parliamentary institutions which belong to us all," the MP from Thiruvananthapuram further said in the statement."However, the prolonged suspension of 12 MPs from the Rajya Sabha, expelled in an arbitrary manner for actions committed during a previous session, has called into question the very assumption of a bipartisan spirit animating the work of Parliament," he added.Also read | V-P Naidu meets govt, Opposition leaders on MPs’ suspensionpic.twitter.com/WzXu8B3RrmEarlier, Shiv Sena MP Priyanka Chaturvedi said she was stepping down as the anchor of the Sansad TV's show ‘Meri Kahaani’. She is among the 12 suspended Rajya Sabha MPs.Chaturvedi, in a letter dated December 5 to Rajya Sabha Chairman Venkaiah Naidu, said, "After my arbitrary suspension, that has totally disgraced established parliamentary norms and rules, to stifle my voice, my party's voice inside the chamber, I am unwilling to continue taking space on Sansad TV when my primary oath to the Constitution is being denied to me."Twelve opposition MPs were suspended from the Rajya Sabha last Monday for the entire Winter Session of Parliament for their "unruly" conduct in the previous session in August. While six suspended MPs are from the Congress; two each are from the Trinamool Congress and Shiv Sena, and one each from the CPI and CPI(M).The opposition has said the suspension was "undemocratic and in violation of all the Rules of Procedure" of the Upper House.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/shashi-tharoor-steps-down-as-host-of-sansad-tv-show-in-solidarity-with-suspended-mps-101638766851189.html
06-12-2021||India||Amit Shah to give statement in Parliament on Nagaland firing incident||Union home minister Amit Shah will give a statement today in both Houses of Parliament on the Nagaland firing incident in which at least 14 civilians - 13 on Saturday and one more on Sunday - were killed. Rajya Sabha Chairman Venkaiah Naidu said he has spoken to Shah and defence minister Rajnath Singh regarding the incident, adding that the home minister will make a statement in the afternoon.Shah is expected to speak on the matter after Opposition leaders gave adjournment motion notices to discuss the killing of civilians in the Mon district of Nagaland. While Congress MP Manickam Tagore moved an adjournment motion in Lok Sabha to discuss the incident, Rajya Sabha MP Manoj Jha gave suspension of business notice "to discuss the matters related to the killing of innocent civilians in Nagaland."“There has been a very serious and tragic incident in which six civilians killed by armed forces. This horrific incident led to clashes that led to death of 8 more civilians and a jawan. We demand a statement from the minister today,” Rajya Sabha Leader of Opposition Mallikarjun Kharge said.On Saturday, Shah expressed anguish over the incident and extended condolences to the families of those who lost their lives. Anguished over an unfortunate incident in Nagaland’s Oting, Mon. I express my deepest condolences to the families of those who have lost their lives. A high-level SIT constituted by the State govt will thoroughly probe this incident to ensure justice to the bereaved families.But the government is yet to provide a statement on the botched anti-insurgency operation in which security forces gunned down civilians. After the reports of killings emerged on Sunday morning, Congress leader Rahul Gandhi said the central government must give a “real reply” over the “heart wrenching” incident.“What exactly is the home ministry doing when neither civilians nor security personnel are safe in our own land?” Gandhi wrote on Twitter.A 5-member delegation of Trinamool Congress will visit Nagaland today to meet the bereaved families.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/amit-shah-to-give-statement-in-parliament-on-nagaland-firing-incident-101638765704069.html
06-12-2021||India||India reports 8,306 cases of Covid-19; active cases lowest in the last 18 months||India's Covid-19 caseload went up to 3,464,1561 after the country added 8,306 new infections in the last 24 hours, according to Union health ministry's update on Monday morning. The death toll saw a jump of 211 cases and now stands at 473,537, the data updated at 8am showed.The active caseload reached 98,416, the lowest in the last 18 months. The total active cases, currently, account for 0.28 per cent of the total caseload.The recovery rate atands at 98.35 per cent, as per the data. As many as 8,834 people recuperated in the last 24 hours and the total number of recoveries jumped to 34,069,608.Notably, the daily positivity rate (0.94 per cent) has been less than 2 per cent for the last 63 days, while the weekly positivity rate (0.78 per cent) has been less than 1 per cent for the last 22 days.On the vaccination front, the country has administered 1.27 billion vaccine doses.Meanwhile, the number of people infected with the Omicron variant of the coronavirus rose to 21 with 17 more testing positive for the new strain on Sunday.So far, Delhi along with Rajasthan, Karnataka, Gujarat and Maharashtra have reported cases of Omicron, which is said to be more contagious than previous mutations of coronavirus.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/india-reports-8-306-cases-of-covid-19-active-cases-lowest-in-the-last-18-months-101638766013061.html
06-12-2021||India||Rahul Gandhi, Mamata Banerjee condemn Nagaland killings||Congress leader Rahul Gandhi and West Bengal chief minister Mamata Banerjee are among the top Opposition leaders who expressed shock and demanded a thorough probe into the civilian killings in Nagaland by security forces who opened fire on them in an operation gone awry. “What exactly is the home ministry doing when neither civilians nor security personnel are safe in our own land?” Rahul Gandhi tweeted.Congress general secretary Priyanka Gandhi Vadra, in a tweet, said, “Heartbreaking news coming out of Nagaland, my deepest condolences to all the bereaved families. They deserve justice.”West Bengal chief minister Mamata Banerjee demanded a thorough investigation into the incident and said it will send a party delegation to meet the families of the victims.“Worrisome news from #Nagaland. Heartfelt condolences to the bereaved families. I pray for the speedy recovery of those who were injured. We must ensure a thorough probe into the incident and ensure that all victims get justice!” Banerjee tweeted.Nagaland’s Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) chief Temjen Imna Along said Saturday’s incident was “tantamount to war crimes during peace time” and “amounted to genocide”, especially as the Centre was in talks with Naga groups to settle political issues.Also Read | Nagaland district tense after civilian killings: How the events unfolded in MonAccording to police officers, the incident took place between Oting and Tiru villages in the Mon district when some daily-wage labourers returning home in a pick-up van from a coal mine were fired upon by security forces who mistook them for militants following intelligence inputs of their presence in the area. Mon shares a porous international border with Myanmar, where the Yung Aung faction of NSCN (K) is based.The Army’s 3 Corps headquartered on the outskirts of Dimapur town issued a statement on Sunday, owning responsibility for the killing of the civilians and assuring “appropriate action”. The Nagaland Government has ordered a high-level probe into the incident by a Special Investigation Team (SIT).Union home minister Amit Shah also took to Twitter on Sunday to express condolences to the bereaved families and assured that the Nagaland government led by chief minister Neiphiu Rio had ordered a high level probe by a special investigation team to establish accountability. The NSCN-IM, the largest Naga rebel group, said the “absurdity and insanity” of the Indian security forces had been “exposed” and that it was a “black day” for the Nagas.Reacting to the incident, the Eastern Nagaland People’s Organisation (ENPO) announced the withdrawal of six tribes it represents from the ongoing annual Hornbill Festival.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/rahul-gandhi-mamata-banerjee-condemn-nagaland-killings-101638764438135.html
06-12-2021||India||Mamata to send team to Nagaland to meet victims of civilian killings||West Bengal chief minister Mamata Banerjee has decided to send a five-member team to Mon in Nagaland where at least 14 civilians were killed on Saturday in firing by the army which appeared to have mistaken them for militants, triggering violent protests by locals. The team comprising four Trinamool Congress (TMC) parliamentarians including Prasun Banerjee, Susmita Dev, Aparupa Poddar and Santanu Sen apart from Biswajit Deb, former advocate general of Mizoram, will head for the north eastern state on Monday and speak to the families of the killed civilians “Worrisome news from #Nagaland. Heartfelt condolences to the bereaved families. I pray for the speedy recovery of those who were injured. We must ensure a thorough probe into the incident and ensure that all victims get justice!” Banerjee had tweeted on Sunday. In October this year, a delegation of five TMC MPs including Kakoli Ghosh Dastidar, Sushmita Dev, Abir Ranjan Biswas, Pratima Mondal and Dola Sen – met families of farmers killed in the Lakhimpur Kheri violence. Banerjee had also sent her emissaries to meet the farmers at Singhu border in Delhi when they were protesting against the three contentious farm bills. Also Read | Nagaland district tense after civilian killings: How the events unfolded in MonThe Mon district administration has imposed a curfew in the town following the violent protests and tensions in the area and prohibited movement of all non-essential vehicles in the district. Entry into the district was also prohibited and mobile internet services were suspended in the region, a district official said. An Indian army expressed its deep regret at the incident and its aftermath and started an investigation “at the highest level” into “the cause of the unfortunate loss of lives” and added that appropriate action will be taken as per the course of law. The TMC is trying to expand its footprint beyond Bengal and has already landed in Tripura and Goa and become the largest opposition party in Meghalaya after 12 Congress legislators, including former chief minister Mukul Sangma, recently switched sides. The TMC would expand its base in five more states in the next few months and plans to set up working units in at least 15 states within the next one year, party supremo Mamata Banerjee’s nephew Abhishek Banerjee had recently said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/mamata-to-send-team-to-nagaland-to-meet-victims-of-civilian-killings-101638762217468.html
06-12-2021||India||New updates from HT: TMC delegation to visit Nagaland after civilian killings, and all the latest news||Here are today’s top news, analysis and opinion. Know all about the latest news and other news updates from Hindustan Times.5-member TMC delegation to visit Nagaland today after civilian killingsA five-member delegation of Trinamool Congress (TMC) is set to visit Nagaland today to meet the families of those who died in the firing incident in the Mon district. Read more…S-400, AK-203 rifles: Russian President Vladimir Putin on a power-packed visit to India today | 10 pointsRussia’s President Vladimir Putin will arrive in India for a day-long visit on Monday, during which he will hold talks with Prime Minister Narendra Modi. Read more…Omicron puzzle: Fauci says possibly mild cases, WHO expert warns about hospitalisationsThe initial reports on the Omicron variant of coronavirus indicate that it may be less dangerous than Delta which continues to drive a surge in hospitalisations, according to top US infectious disease expert Dr Anthony Fauci. Read more…India’s Omicron tally rises to 21 with 17 news cases; Rajasthan reports nineIndia reported 17 more cases of the Omicron on Sunday, nine in Rajasthan capital Jaipur, seven in Maharashtra's Pune district and one in Delhi, taking the tally to 21. Watch video'He wasn't agreeing. At one stage we gave up': Ganguly on difficulties in convincing Dravid to become India's head coachBCCI President Sourav Ganguly on Sunday revealed how hard he had to work to convince legendary India cricketer Rahul Dravid to take up the job of the men's national team coach. Read more…What Katrina Kaif wore to Vicky Kaushal's house amid wedding preparationsActor Katrina Kaif and Vicky Kaushal will soon tie the knot later this week in Rajasthan. Amid the ongoing wedding preparations, the bride-to-be arrived at Vicky's house last night with her mother, Suzanne Turquotte. The paparazzi clicked Katrina leaving her home and arriving at Vicky's building decked up in a gorgeous white saree, looking breathtaking as ever. See all pics and videoWhen Rajesh Khanna told Akshay Kumar to stop working in Khiladi series, predicted grandson Aarav will be next superstarRajesh Khanna had once shared his thoughts about the kind of film and roles his son-in-law, actor Akshay Kumar was choosing. While the veteran actor said that Akshay was doing a ‘fine job’ at the movies, he should stop working in Khiladi movies. Read more…||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/new-updates-from-ht-tmc-delegation-to-visit-nagaland-after-civilian-killings-101638759292645.html
06-12-2021||India||Nagaland district tense after civilian killings: How the events unfolded in Mon||The Mon district of Nagaland is on the edge after an incident in which 13 civilians were killed in firing by the Indian Army on Saturday. The soldiers mistook the civilians as militants, according to the police.The authorities have imposed curfew in the area and prohibited movement of all non-essential vehicles, people familiar with the matter said.The Nagaland government on Sunday announced ex-gratia of ₹5 lakh each to the families of the 13 people killed. Chief minister Neiphiu Rio will visit Mon on Monday morning along with his cabinet colleagues and senior government officers for an on-the-spot assessment of the situation and to pay respect to the deceased.A five-member delegation of the Trinamool Congress is also set to visit Nagaland today.Here’s how the events unfolded in Mon:Saturday:6.30pm: Security personnel ambush ferry van carrying coal miners in Oting village of Mon district, seven people were killed.7.30pm: Several villagers, carrying machetes, arrive at the spot to attack security forces. One army jawan killed; six dead in force’s firing.10pm: Police deployed across villages; Army personnel taken to Mon town.Sunday:11am: Konyak Union office in Mon town vandalised by mob.2pm: Mob attacks Assam Rifles camp in Mon town, set two vehicles and sheds on fire. One civilian killed after security personnel open fire.4pm: Curfew and prohibitory orders imposed and internet services suspended for an indefinite period in Mon town.6pm: Murder case registered against unidentified Army personnel and local residents.The NSCN(IM) which is holding peace talks with the Centre on the Naga political issue, condemned the killing of civilians by security forces and said it is a 'Black day' for the Naga people.Union home minister Amit Shah expressed his regret over the incident and said the state probe would "ensure justice to the bereaved families".Mon district is about 350 kilometres from Nagaland's capital Kohima.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/nagaland-district-tense-after-civilian-killings-how-the-events-unfolded-in-mon-101638760134016.html
06-12-2021||India||India remembers BR Ambedkar on his 66th death anniversary. 5 things to know about him||India observes December 6 as Mahaparinirvan Divas every year to mark the death anniversary of Dr Bhimrao Ramji Ambedkar, who fought for economic and social empowerment of Dalits in the country. Fondly remembered as Babasaheb, he was also among the seven members of the “drafting committee” who prepared a draft of the Constitution of the independent India.Known for his great influence in India in eradicating the social scourge of untouchability, Ambedkar also served as the Minister of Law and Justice in the first cabinet of Jawaharlal Nehru from 1947 to 1951.As India remembers BR Ambedkar, here are top 5 thing to know about him:>Babasaheb Ambedkar dedicated most of his life to empowering and voicing concerns for the downtrodden. He also played a crucial role in promoting gender equality.>Ambedkar earned his doctorates in economics from Columbia University and the London School of Economics and gained a reputation as a scholar for his research in law, economics and political science.>While in his early career he worked as an economist, professor, and lawyer, Babasaheb became involved in political activities including campaigning and negotiations for India's Independence, advocating political rights and social freedom for Dalits in his later life.>Apart from drafting the Constitution, Babasaheb played a significant role in the formation of the Reserve Bank of India. The Central bank was formed on the concept presented by Babasaheb to the Hilton Young Commission.>He converted to Buddhism in 1956 at a ceremony held in Nagpur. Ambedkar's admirers consider him as influential as Lord Buddha, which is why his death anniversary is celebrated as Mahaparinirvana Divas.The Union government has decided to celebrate Mahaparinirvan Divas as part of the major commemoration of 'Azadi Ka Amrit Mahotsav', reported news agency ANI. In line with the original spirit of the famous slogan "Baba Saheb Amar Rahe", cultural programmes will be held at Sansad Bhawan, Dr Ambedkar International Center, Panchteerth sites associated with Babasaheb, and other locations such as Ambavade to pay tribute to Dr Bhim Rao Ambedkar on the occasion of his 66th death anniversary.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/india-remembers-br-ambedkar-on-his-66th-death-anniversary-5-things-to-know-about-him-101638755324079.html
06-12-2021||India||Assam govt implements new SOPs as Omicron cases spread. Read details||The Assam government on Sunday issued new Standard Operating Procedures (SOPs) for international travellers amid the spread of the Omicron variant in India. The presence of new strain has been reported in 21 cases across the country so far.The new SOPs make it mandatory for international travellers to go for an RT-PCR test on arrival at airport. Those who plan to stay in Assam have been asked to compulsorily quarantine at home for seven days.If any of the traveller is found positive, he/she will have to abide by the state government protocol, and the samples will also be sent to laboratories for genome sequencing to determine the Covid variant, the state government said in its order.Assam health minister Keshab Mahanta said that the new SOPs have been formulated on the basis of the protocol for international travellers prepared by the Centre.The state government has also asked those who are going out of or coming into Assam to upload a self-declaration form on "Air Suvidha" portal before the scheduled journey.The passengers have been asked to submit travel details for the last 14 days and a negative RT-PCR report, not older than 72 hours.They should also give an undertaking on the portal or to the ministry of civil aviation through airlines before they are allowed to undertake the journey that they would abide by decisions of the appropriate government authority to undergo home or institutional quarantine as warranted.The Omicron variant has been reported in four states - Rajasthan, Maharashtra, Gujarat, Karnataka - and national capital Delhi.The total tally has reached 21. Of these, 17 were reported on Sunday alone. Most of these have travel history to south African countries, where Omicron was first detected last month.Since then, it has spread to two dozen countries, with Europe being the hardest hit.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/assam-govt-implements-new-sops-as-omicron-cases-spread-read-details-101638758263259.html
06-12-2021||NA||Parliament Highlights: Lok Sabha adjourned till Tuesday||Union home minister Amit Shah on Monday addressed the Lok Sabha regarding the killing of civilians in Nagaland after a counter-insurgency operation went awry and in the violence after that.Shah said the Centre was watching the situation closely and deeply regretted the loss of lives.After Shah’s brief statement on the Nagaland issue, the opposition demanded time to respond but the Speaker refused to give his permission.Meanwhile, Amit Shah also addressed the Rajya Sabha regarding the incident following which the house was adjourned till Tuesday due to constant disruption and continued protests by the Opposition. The Upper House of Parliament has been witnessing constant disruption over the suspension of 12 members. The leaders of opposition parties have been protesting against the suspension of their fellow colleagues.Meanwhile, the Narcotic Drugs and Psychotropic Substances (Amendment) Bill, 2021 was introduced in the Lok Sabha.Follow all the updates here:Lok Sabha adjourned till tomorrowLok Sabha proceedings adjourned for the day, to resume tomorrow.'RS Chairman doesn't want to revoke suspension of 12 MPs'The Rajya Sabha Chairman doesn't want to take the suspension back. How long will you keep the opposition out in a democracy? Functioning of the House is in his hands. We are ready to cooperate. But he should accept our conditions: Mallikarjun Kharge, Leader of Opposition, Rajya SabhaBJP MP displays box of alcohol in Lok Sabha, says Delhi govt was busy with liquor policy during second waveBJP minister Parvesh Sahib Singh displayed a box of an alcoholic drink inside Lok Sabha today and said that the Delhi government was busy with liquor policy instead of helping people with oxygen during the second Covid-19 wave.NIPER Amendment Bill, 2021, does not provide for improving Indian traditional medicine system, says S VenkatesanThe bill doesn't speak about researches on the Indian traditional medicine system, particularly the Siddha medicine from Tamil Nadu, says Communist MP S Venkatesan. “The bill (NIPER Amendment Bill, 2021) does not have any provisions regarding improving our own Indian medicine system,” he said. “The medicinal knowledge of over 8,000 medicinal herbs have been scientifically established before 2,000 years ago,” he said about the Siddha medicinal system. S Venkatesan says Parliamentary Standing Committee's suggestions not fulfilled in NIPER Amendment Bill, 2021CPI (M) minister S Venkatesan recorded his shock regarding the National Institute of Pharmaceutical Education and Research (Amendment) Bill, 2021. “Parliament standing committee has recommended positions for people from the Scheduled Castes and Scheduled Tribes in the NIPER council. But, the committee's suggestions have not been heard and the bill has not guaranteed any position for Dalit and tribal communities,” he said. He also alleged that the Centre regularly denied quota in all institutes of higher education and research. Supriya Sule questions move over disinvestment of Hindustan Antibiotics, Bengal ChemicalsNationalist Congress Party leader Supriya Sule questioned the disinvestment of Hindustan Antibiotics and Bengal Chemicals. She also asked why is the government not able to hire scientists and said that more scientists are working in the private sector.Rajya Sabha adjourned for the day, to meet at 11am on TuesdayRajya Sabha was adjourned for the day amid continuing protests by opposition parties as Union home minister issued a statement on Nagaland firing incident. The house has been adjourned till 11am on Tuesday (December 7).‘Status of pharmaceutical education and research in India not encouraging’, says YSRCP MPThe status of pharmaceutical education and research in India was “not encouraging”, said Sanjeev Kumar Singari, YSRCP MP from Kurnool, Andhra Pradesh.“There are nearly 2,800 pharmaceutical colleges in India, which train about 2,70,000 students every year. Presently, India has about 8,00,000 pharmacies, whereas the USA has 3,00,000 pharmacies. Our share in world pharma business is just 3%. By colume we are the third position in the world byt by value we are the 14th position. It means that we have huge volume but less value. We are giving more drugs to the world but earning less” he added.TMC's Saugata Roy says vaccine export delayed country's Covid-19 vaccination program “We exported vaccines to 80 countries, that's how our vaccination program got delayed,” says TMC MP Saugata Roy.Congress says ‘not satisfied’ with Amit Shah's statement on Nagaland firingCongress MP Manickam Tagore said that the opposition was not satisfied with Amit Shah's statement on Nagaland firing and so staged a walk out. “The home minister came and replied a very short reply and when we were asking for clarification, we were not allowed,” he said.“We were not satisfied with the reply of the home minister. Therefore the opposition– Congress and DMK and other alliance partners – walked out in protest against the reply of the home minister,” he added. Opposition demands time to respond to Amit Shah's statementOpposition parties demanded time to respond to Amit Shah's statement on Nagaland firing but Lok Sabha Speaker refused to allow. ‘Centre watching situation closely, deeply regret loss of life’: Amit Shah on Nagaland firing“Situation now under control. Police now inquiring and SIT will give its report in time bound manner. Army has given its own statement where they have regretted death of civilians and are inquiring at highest level. We monitored situation at highest level all day yesterday and govt is keeping a close eye on developments. The centre deeply regrets the loss of life,” said Shah.‘Case of mistaken identity’, says Amit Shah on Nagaland firing “Army tried to stop the vehicle but because it started speeding away. So the army fired and killed 6 of 8,” Amit Shah said. “It was a case of mistaken identity and army gave medical help to the two injured. Later in clashes, 7 more killed,” he added. Amit Shah addresses Lok Sabha on Nagaland firing incidentUnion home minister Amit Shah is addressing the Lok Sabha regarding the army firing incident in Nagaland.Both houses adjourned till 3pmBoth houses of Parliament, Lok Sabha and Rajya Sabha, adjourned till 3pm today, reports ANI. Everyone sympathised with Nagaland, but not ‘with us’: NC MPIn Lok Sabha, referring to civillian killings in Hyderpora, National Conference MP Hasnain Masoodi says everyone sympathised with Nagaland, but not "with us" (Kashmir).Answer members' questions in the House itself: Lok Sabha Speaker to ministersLok Sabha Speaker Om Birla asks ministers to answer the members' questions in the House itself.His suggestion came after Minister of States for Finance Bhagwant Kishanrao Karad, while responding to a question of a member in the House about the Mudra loan beneficiaries, said he will collect the information and share it with him.Nagaland MP demands inquiry into Nagaland firing incidentAn inquiry should be initiated. State govt has given ex-gratia of ₹5 lakhs each to the families of the victims. The Centre should also give adequate compensation to the affected families, says T Yepthomi, NDPP MP from Nagaland in Lok Sabha on recent civilian killings in his state.‘Why has democracy dried up in the country': Derek O’brienTMC's Derek O’brien during question hour said I want to ask the minister (Gajendra Shekhawat) why has democracy dried up in the country.  The house was holding discussion on water resources.Rajya Sabha adjourned till 2pmThe upper house of the Parliament was adjourned till 2pm after consituting briefly at noon. This the second adjournment of the day. Sitharaman addresses Lok SabhaUnion finance minister Nirmala Sitharaman speaking in Lok Sabha. Responding to aquestion regardong potential losses in IPOs, she said SEBI is monitoring such cases.  Rajya Sabha adjourned till 12pmThe Rajya Sabha was adjourned till 12pm after the uproar by the opposition demanding discussion on firing incident in Nagaland. Shashi Tharoor resigns from Sansad TVpic.twitter.com/WzXu8B3RrmAfter Shiv Sena Priyanka Chaturvedi, senior leader Congress leader Shashi Tharoor also resigned from Sansad TV. AIMIM MP gives adjournment notice in Lok SabhaAIMIM MP Asaduddin Owaisi gives adjournment motion notice in Lok Sabha over the Nagaland firing incident. Amit Shah to address house on Nagaland killingsUnion Home Minister Amit Shah to give a statement on the Nagaland firing incident in both the Houses of the Parliament today, news agency ANI reported. Rajya Sabha to discuss Assisted Reproductive Technology, surrogacy regulation bill todayThe Assisted Reproductive Technology (Regulation) Bill, 2021 and The Surrogacy (Regulation) Bill, 2020 to be discussed in Rajya Sabha today.TRS MP gives adjournment notice in Lok SabhaTRS MP Nama Nageswara Rao gives adjournment motion notice in Lok Sabha over the issue of 'national policy on foodgrains procurement and legal guarantee for Minimum Support Price to farmers.'In Lok Sabha, health minister to move National Institute of Pharmaceutical Education and Research (Amendment) BillUnion Health Minister Dr. Mansukh Mandaviya to move the National Institute of Pharmaceutical Education and Research (Amendment) Bill, 2021, for consideration and passing, in Lok Sabha today.Kharge to meet opposition leaders to chalk out strategy for floorOpposition leaders cutting across various political parties will meet at the office of the Rajya Sabha Leader of the Opposition Mallikarjun Kharge on Monday to chalk out the strategy for the floor.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/parliament-winter-session-live-updates-december-6-2021-101638755926391.html
06-12-2021||India||Advisory group to meet today on child immunisation, additional vaccine dose amid Omicron scare||The National Technical Advisory Group on Immunisation (NTAGI) will meet on Monday to deliberate upon issues of child immunisation and administering additional doses of Covid-19 vaccine to the immunocompromised.The NTAGI is expected to come up with a comprehensive policy for both the additional Covid-19 vaccine dose and child immunisation, as informed by the chairman of India's Covid-19 task force, NK Arora, on November 29.This comes amid fears of a third wave of Covid-19 following the emergence of a new variant of Coronavirus, Omicron.Also read | Policy on booster, additional Covid-19 vaccine doses in 2 weeks: Dr NK Arora"The policy will deal with who will require the vaccine, when and how. This needs to be seen in the context that a new variant is coming and with time only we will get to know more information about it. Therefore relevance and effectiveness of the current vaccines will also become apparent with time only," Arora had said, according to ANI.There is a difference between a booster dose and an additional dose. The booster dose is given after a predefined period after the primary two doses have been given, while an additional dose is given to those people who have a basic problem with their immune functions, the doctor had explained.Also read | 'Double vaccination first,' say Indian experts amid calls for booster shotsNK Arora had also said a comprehensive plan for immunising 44 crore children will be made public soon, adding that children with comorbidities will be prioritised and vaccinated first, followed by healthy children.People familiar with the development said that government experts are at present working on a list of comorbidities that could determine which children are eligible for a vaccine first.Only one Covid-19 vaccine, Zydus Healthcare’s ZyCoV-D, that was tested in children aged 12 years and above has been approved for emergency use in India.The drugs controller general of India is still reviewing the emergency use authorization of Bharat Biotech’s Covaxin that has been tested in children aged 2 years and above, even though the expert committee recommended it for use in children.A total of 21 cases of Omicron have been detected in the last couple of days in India, with some experts pushing for a booster shot to the already vaccinated to minimise the effect of the pandemic.The new variant of Covid-19 was first detected in South Africa's Botswana early in November. It has been declared a variant of concern by the World Health Organisation.Union health minister Mansukh Mandaviya had recently informed the Lok Sabha that the NTAGI and the National Expert Group on Vaccine Administration for Covid-19 (NEGVAC) were deliberating and considering scientific evidence regarding administration of booster doses.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/advisory-group-to-meet-today-on-child-immunisation-additional-vaccine-dose-amid-omicron-scare-101638753912406.html
06-12-2021||India||5-member TMC delegation to visit Nagaland today after civilian killings||A five-member delegation of Trinamool Congress (TMC) is set to visit Nagaland today to meet the families of those who died in the firing incident in the Mon district. The TMC delegation will comprise members of Parliament Prasun Banerjee, Sushmita Dev, Aparupa Poddar and Santanu Sen and party spokesperson Biswajit Deb.West Bengal chief minister and TMC chief Mamata Banerjee on Sunday extended condolences to the bereaved families and called for a thorough investigation into the botched up counter-insurgency operation by the Indian army that led to the death of 14 civilians and one soldier."Worrisome news from Nagaland. Heartfelt condolences to the bereaved families. I pray for the speedy recovery of those who were injured. We must ensure a thorough probe into the incident and ensure that all victims get justice!" Banerjee tweeted.Nagaland’s Mon district tense after stir over civilian killings turns violentThe situation in the area remained tense after security forces opened fire on civilians, which, the police said, was possibly a case of mistaken identity. Security forces had reportedly been tipped off about insurgents belonging to the Yung Aung faction of the banned outfit NSCN (K) and were tracking their movements. On Saturday, army personnel mistook coal mine workers returning home in a pick-up van as insurgents and gunned them down.As workers failed to reach their homes, villagers went looking for them. After reaching the spot, the angry mob set ablaze two security vehicles, sparking off another round of firing in which at least six civilians and one soldier died.People protesting against the killings surrounded an Assam Rifles camp in the area and set parts of it afire. Security forces opened fire at the mob, killing at least one civilian.The Indian Army has expressed regret over the incident and ordered a court of inquiry to investigate the incident.The state government, meanwhile, has suspended mobile internet and SMS services in the region to curb “circulation of inflammatory videos, pictures or text,” an official directive said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/5member-tmc-delegation-to-visit-nagaland-after-civilian-killings-101638751339902.html
06-12-2021||India||S-400, AK-203 rifles: Russian President Vladimir Putin on a power-packed visit to India today | 10 points||Russia’s President Vladimir Putin will arrive in India for a day-long visit on Monday, during which he will hold talks with Prime Minister Narendra Modi.During the visit, India and Russia will hold the first 2+2 format dialogue in New Delhi and discuss key bilateral, regional and international issues, including the situation in the Asia-Pacific region. Putin had said last week that he intends to discuss with PM Modi new "large-scale" initiatives on further developing "specially privileged" Russian-Indian relations."This partnership brings real mutual benefit to both states. Bilateral trade shows good dynamics; ties are actively developing in the energy sector, innovation, space, and the production of coronavirus vaccines and medicines," the Russian President had said during a ceremony of receiving credentials from foreign ambassadors in the Kremlin on Wednesday.Here’s the big points about Putin’s visit and the expected agenda:• This will be the first in-person meeting between Putin and Prime Minister Narendra Modi after their meeting on the sidelines of the BRICS summit in Brasilia in November 2019.• Several agreements to deepen cooperation in defence, trade, space, technology, energy and culture are expected to be inked during the summit.• The Russian President is scheduled to hand over the model of an S-400 air defence system to Prime Minister Narendra Modi, news agency ANI reported.• The two countries will also ink a major deal worth over ₹5,100 crore to produce AK-203 assault rifles in India. These rifles will be produced in Uttar Pradesh’s Amethi.• The AK-203 rifles will replace INSAS rifles inducted more than three decades ago. The Indian Army is expected to acquire 7.5 lakh of these rifles.• The production of the over five lakh rifles by the India-Russia joint venture company would see a complete transfer of technology within seven years of signing the contract.• ANI further said that the two sides will discuss the Igla air defence system deal but that is not likely to be signed during this visit.• A key pact that could be signed is the Reciprocal Exchange of Logistics Agreement (RELOS), which will allow militaries of the two nations to access logistics and support facilities at each other’s bases.• India and Russia will also be holding the first 2+2 format dialogue in New Delhi between defence minister Rajnath Singh and his Russian counterpart Sergey Shoigu and external affairs minister S Jaishankar and his Russian counterpart Sergey Lavrov.• The ministers are expected to hold in-depth discussions of the key regional and international topics, including the situation in the Asia-Pacific region and developments in Afghanistan and Syria.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/s400-ak-203-rifles-putin-on-a-power-packed-visit-to-india-today-101638751033371.html
06-12-2021||India||India & Russia to hold first 2+2 ministerial dialogue in Delhi. What's on agenda||Russian foreign minister Sergey Lavrov on Sunday arrived in India ahead of the first ‘2+2’ ministerial dialogue scheduled to take place in Delhi. The agenda for the dialogue, which will be held at the level of the foreign and defence ministers, will cover "political and defence issues of mutual interest".Ministry of External Affairs (MEA) spokesperson Arindam Bagchi had said last month that the new mechanism of two plus two dialogue is "expected to further strengthen the strategic partnership between the two countries".Russian President Vladimir Putin will also be arriving in Delhi on Monday to hold the 21st annual India-Russia summit with Prime Minister Narendra Modi. Both leaders are expected to discuss key bilateral, regional and international issues. This will mark the first face-to-face meeting between both the leaders, after they met on the sidelines of the BRICS summit in November 2019.Russian Foreign Affairs Minister Sergey Lavrov arrives at Delhi Palam airportHe will meet External Affairs Minister Dr. S Jaishankar and take part in the 2+2 Ministerial Dialogue between India and Russia pic.twitter.com/oMpQCbIAuVIn the summit as well as in the inaugural '2+2' defence and foreign ministerial talks, the two sides are also expected to focus on the situation in Afghanistan and the rising threat of terrorism including from groups like Lashkar-e-Taiba and Jaish-e-Mohammed.The joint statement to be issued after the summit is expected to reflect India’s concerns over cross-border terror and the fallout of the Taliban takeover of Afghanistan, people familiar with the development said.The annual summit will be preceded by meetings between defence minister Rajnath Singh and his Russian counterpart Sergey Shoigu and external affairs minister S Jaishankar and his Russian counterpart Sergey Lavrov, and the inaugural 2+2 dialogue of the defence and foreign ministers.On Saturday, the Russian ambassador to India Nikolay Kudashev said that he is expecting a "sizeable and formidable joint political statement" from the annual summit."Negotiating teams are working about outcomes of the Summit, work is on. But what's clear for today is that one of the outcomes would be a sizeable and formidable joint political statement," Russian Envoy said in an interview with news agency ANI."It would be a very comprehensive paper, a comprehensive document covering all dimensions of our ties beginning with global issues and the UN revived commitment to itself to its central position in the modern world. Then would come regional issues, Afghanistan included," he added.(With agency inputs)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/india-russia-to-hold-first-2-2-ministerial-dialogue-in-delhi-what-s-on-agenda-101638748019120.html
06-12-2021||India||India's Omicron tally rises to 21: Tracking the spread of new coronavirus strain||The Omicron variant has been spreading fast in India. In the last one week, the number of people who contracted the new variant of the coronavirus rose to 21.Seventeen new cases were detected on Sunday alone. Most of those who tested positive either recently arrived from African countries or were in contact with such people.Several contacts of the new cases are under surveillance and have been isolated, said officials.Also Read | 9 test positive in Ludhiana amid Omicron threatThe central government has put in place strict travel restrictions on people arriving from abroad, especially from countries identified as ‘at risk’.The emergence of the new strain of coronavirus has also dented India’s plans to restart international travel from December 15.Here’s tracking the spread of the Omicron variant in India:Reported on Sunday:One case in New Delhi with travel history to Tanzania. The 37-year-old from Ranchi had travelled from Tanzania to Doha and from there to Delhi on a Qatar Airways flight on December 2. He stayed in Johannesburg, South Africa, for a week, news agency PTI reported. The person is fully vaccinated and is currently admitted to the Lok Nayak Jai Prakash Narayan (LNJP) Hospital with mild symptoms, the agency further said in its report.Nine cases in Jaipur. These include four members of a family who returned from South Africa recently. "Genome sequencing has confirmed that nine persons are infected with the omicron variant," Rajasthan health secretary Vaibhav Galriya said.Seven in Maharashtra. Of these, six of a family tested positive in Pimpri-Chinchwad (on the outskirts of Pune city). “A 44-year-old, woman, who is a Nigerian citizen of Indian origin, her daughters aged 18 and 12, her 45-year-old brother and his two daughters aged 7 and one-and-a-half years, have tested positive for the Omicron variant as per the report given by the Pune-based National Institute of Virology (NIV)," Maharashtra health department said in a statement. All of them returned from Nigeria last month. The seventh case – a man – had travelled to Finland last monthWith this, the total number of confirmed Omicron cases in Maharashtra has gone up to eight.Detected earlier:The country reported the first two cases of the Omicron variant of Covid-19 on Thursday in Karnataka - a 66-year-old South African flyer and a 46-year-old Bengaluru doctor with no travel history. Both men are fully vaccinated.On Saturday, a 72-year-old NRI from Gujarat and a 33-year-old man from Maharashtra's Thane tested positive for the new strain.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/indias-omicron-tally-rises-to-21-tracking-the-spread-of-new-coronavirus-strain-101638749192622.html
06-12-2021||India||Pay disparity: Himachal cops’ kin stage protest outside Bilaspur AIIMS||Family members of Himachal Pradesh Police constables on Sunday staged a protest outside Bilaspur AIIMS and at Luhnu ground where BJP’s national chief JP Nadda was to preside over an event. The protesters carried placards with ‘Justice for Himachal Police’ written on them. When Nadda was leaving after inaugurating OPD at AIIMS, the protesters stopped his convoy at the gate and handed him a memorandum related to their demands. The protesters said while the government has reduced the contract period for other employees, the police constables have to wait for eight years for revised pay scale.“I have come here to protest against the disparity in pay of constables. My daughter is in the police. She cannot raise her voice against this injustice, so I came here to express resentment against the government policy on her behalf,” said Harminder Singh, a parent who protested at AIIMS and later at Luhnu. Another parent, Indra Devi, said government should remove the disparity in pay of police constables. “When the government t has considered demands of other employees, then why injustice with the police?” she asked.It is worth mentioning here that there has been a growing anger among the constables of the Himachal Pradesh Police over the disparity in their salaries.Irked over their demands not being heard in the Joint Coordination Committee (JCC) meeting, policemen in large numbers had marched to chief minister Jai Ram Thakur’s official residence for a peaceful protest on November 28.The chief minister had hurriedly convened a meeting with the finance secretary and assured the protesting cops that their demands will be looked into in a meeting with all officials concerned.In the JCC meeting, the chief minister had announced new pay scales for the employees and reduced their contract period from three to two years. The government’s decision to increase the pay scales of employees had led to resentment among policemen. The policemen started a campaign on social media and also stopped taking meals in the mess of their units.On December 3, the Director General of Police (DGP) had issued a gag order to prevent the cops from airing their grievances on social media. It was directed that the police constables should maintain discipline go about their routine and refrain from posting comments on social media.It was after this order, that the parents of the constables launched a campaign on their behalf. Himachal DGP forms 4-member panel to look into grievances of constabulary Himachal director general of police (DGP) Sanjay Kundu on Sunday constituted a committee to analyse the grievances of the constabulary regarding their pay anomalies. The order issued by the DGP to this effect states that issues of pay anomaly and other issues of constabulary who have been recruited after 2015, have come to the notice of authorities. “However, to comprehensively analyse the grievance of the constabulary regarding their pay anomaly, a committee is hereby constituted,” it states.IGP Anand Pratap Singh will be the chairman of the committee which comprises IG DK Yadav, IG JP Singh and deputy controller Vikash Gupta.The panel will receive all the issues in the form of memorandum, in writing from the affected parties and list the issues which need to be taken with the government.The committee will submit its report within one week.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/pay-disparity-himachal-cops-kin-stage-protest-outside-bilaspur-aiims-101638736174983.html
06-12-2021||India||Air India pilots to meet Aviation Secy before taking call on ‘industrial action’||Air India pilots, who had warned the management of a strike, have decided to meet Rajiv Bansal, aviation secretary (also their chairman and managing director) once before announcing their decision of going on a strike. The Air India pilots have warned the airline of ‘Industrial Action’ if their pay-cuts and arrears are not duly paid before Air India is handed over to the new owner.Indian Pilots’ Guild (the airline’s Boeing pilots’ union) on Sunday tweeted, “Talks with management along with @PilotsIndian regarding 60% pay cut only for Licenced employees, inconclusive. Meeting management (CMD/SECY MOCA) tomorrow to find a peaceful resolve. @MoCA_GoI @TataCompanies@RNTata2000#peacefulresolution."Air India pilots had, on November 29, given an ultimatum of three days to the Air India management to meet their demands. In a letter to Bansal, sent on Monday evening, the pilots had warned that if they do not see the illegal pay cut and related issues being addressed within three days, they will seek justice through industrial action.The letter was written by the airline’s Airbus’ union- Indian Commercial Pilots’ Guild (ICPA) and Boeing pilots union- Indian Pilots’ Guild (IPG) which represent over 900 pilots.Post this, the management reached out to the pilots and had a meeting with them.These pilots had been writing to the airline since October but they haven’t received any reply.In their previous letters, the pilots complained that they are burdened by the “illegal pay cut” of 55% and demanded to be paid as per market standards. Mentioning their long-standing disinvestment issues, the pilots have also demanded the withheld 25% arrears with interest, statement of gratuity, an option of leave encashment, medical benefits for all permanent employees, tax implication on withheld layover substance allowance and release of pending grades to first officers.Senior Air India pilots, however, said that the meeting with representatives from both the pilot groups on December 3 was inconclusive. “The management was informed that we are aware of Air India’s revenues going back to pre Covid-19 levels and that most pilots are working more than they did pre Covid-19. The management asked us to hold on till the takeover. However, both unions warned of serious consequences if the issued was not solved,” said a senior pilot.“We are firm with our decision of industrial action. We are meeting our CMD with the hope that he will have a definite solution to our issues. We sincerely hope that the airline doesn’t force us to take an extreme decision,” said another senior pilot who did not wished to be named.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/air-india-pilots-to-meet-aviation-secretary-before-taking-call-on-industrial-action-101638731674740.html
06-12-2021||India||There is wave in favour of BJP, says Yediyurappa||Senior BJP leader B S Yediyurappa on Sunday claimed that there is a wave of public support in favour of his party in the country and the Congress will continue to sit in the opposition for the next 25 years.“There is a wave in favour of BJP across the country. The Congress is going to remain in opposition for the next 25 years in Lok Sabha. The Congress is somehow breathing here in Karnataka,” Yediyurappa told reporters here.The BJP strongman was replying to a query on veteran Congress leader Mallikarjun Kharge’s alleged remarks on Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s failure on the development front.Yediyurappa said as a senior Congress leader, Kharge should speak responsibly when the entire world admires Modi.“Ghulam Nabi Azad has said the BJP and not the Congress will come to power next time. In this situation, if Mallikarjun Kharge makes such comments who will value his words. He should at least look at the ground realities,” Yediyurappa said.On the MLC elections in 25 seats across the 20 local bodies, which is scheduled on December 10, the former CM said he was confident of winning at least 16 out of 20 seats where the BJP is contesting.Yediyurappa further said he is seeing a wave in favour of the BJP and people have decided to vote for the saffron party candidates this time.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/there-is-wave-in-favour-of-bjp-says-yediyurappa-101638731437013.html
06-12-2021||India||Focus on empowering grama panchayats: Karnataka CM Bommai||Chief minister Basavaraj Bommai on Sunday said the state government wants to empower grama panchayats to further strengthen local administrative bodies. “Empowerment of gram panchayats is our government’s aim. Our programmes have been formulated accordingly,” Bommai said in Bidar, about 670 km from Bengaluru. The statements come at a time when all three major political parties – the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP), Congress and Janata Dal (Secular) -- are trying hard to win the maximum number of seats in the December 10 polls for 25 spots in the upper house of the state legislature. The BJP under Prime Minister Narendra Modi has been accused of going against decentralisation, stripping local administrative bodies of its powers. “Government services should be taken to the doors of the citizens. People need not be made to travel to Taluk and Zilla Panchayat offices for basic services. Focus of our government is the development of the villages. Decentralisation of power to Gram Panchayat level is our objective,” Bommai said. He added that an action plan of ₹3,000 crore had been prepared for development of Kalyana Karnataka region. The BJP is also hoping to set the field for the yet-to-be-announced polls for the zilla and taluka panchayat and the Bruhat Bengaluru Mahanagara Palike (BBMP, the city’s civic body) to help it form a good base before the 2023 state assembly election. The Congress and JD(S) too are trying to secure their voter base and expand its presence to increase their chances in all polls before 2023.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/focus-on-empowering-grama-panchayats-karnataka-cmbommai-101638731376160.html
06-12-2021||India||AIIMS Bilaspur will be made fully functional within next six months: Anurag Thakur||Bilaspur (Himachal Pradesh): Union sports and information & broadcasting minister Anurag Thakur said on Sunday that the All India Institute of Medical Science (AIIMS) in Bilaspur will be made fully functional within the next six months. “Project of making AIIMS in Bilaspur, worth ₹1,471 crore with 750 beds, medical college facilities, 64 ICU beds and 16 Operation Theatres (OTs) on a 250-acre ground, will be ready in 6 months,” he said while attending a COVID vaccination warriors felicitation ceremony at Bilaspur.Earlier, Member of Parliament and National BJP President Jagat Prakash Nadda, Union Minister of Health, Chemicals and Fertilizers Mansukh Mandaviya, Chief Minister Jai Ram Thakur and Union Minister of Information and Broadcasting, Youth Affairs and Sports Anurag Singh Thakur also dedicated the OPD at AIIMS Kothipura in Bilaspur. Rekha of Kullu district became the first OPD patient of this prestigious institution, who was diagnosed by Dr. Kapil Sharma of AIIMS Bilaspur.They also honoured Covid Vaccine doctors and other health workers on the occasion. He said that people in the state had to go to AIIMS Delhi and PGI Chandigarh for their treatment, but after six months people will be able to get treatment at Bilaspur.He thanked the current Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) National President and former Union Health Minister JP Nadda for his efforts in getting the hospital constructed. Taking potshots at the previous Congress governments at the Centre and in State, he said, “We attained our freedom, Himachal Pradesh is celebrating its 50 years as a state, but nobody talked about building big hospitals here, let alone an AIIMS. When Prime Minister Narendra Modi came to power in 2014, he gave Himachal Pradesh its first AIIMS. During the UPA rule, the construction of AIIMS was started but it never finished. But within the last five to seven years, the Modi government has made more AIIMS than the total number of AIIMS till 2014. Also, more AIIMS are being made.”Union Minister of Health, Chemicals and Fertilizers Mansukh Mandaviya said that the AIIMS was indeed the biggest gift of the Union Government to the State. He said that the world had acknowledged the brainpower of the country. He said that out of ten scientists in NASA, almost about three scientists are Indian and Prime Minister Narendra Modi recognized the power of the country and encouraged the scientists to develop its own vaccination against corona virus.(||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/aiims-bilaspur-will-be-made-fully-functional-within-next-six-months-anurag-thakur-101638731374952.html
06-12-2021||India||Congress trying to win MLC polls with money power: Karnataka CM Bommai||Karnataka chief minister Basavaraj Bommai on Sunday accused the Congress of using money to buy votes in the December 10 polls for 25 seats in the upper house of the state legislature.“Having lost people’s support, the Congress has a ploy to win the Legislative Council election by money power. But the grand old party’s true colours had been exposed,” Bommai said on Sunday.The statements come at a time when all three political parties have intensified their respective campaigns for the upcoming elections that would determine who keeps control of the upper house of the state legislature.“Fall of morality in (the) Congress is very clear. People should show the Congress its place as the party is trying to win the election through immoral splurge of money,” Bommai said.The Congress had accused the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) of using -- or misusing -- state machinery to win support.The three parties are continuing to meet their grassroot level workers in order to set the base and tone for other upcoming elections in the state including the Zilla and Taluka panchayat, Bruhat Bengaluru Mahanagara Palike (BBMP) and the 2023 state assembly polls.The BJP is also trying to strike a deal with the Janata Dal (Secular) or JD(S) to defeat the Congress, whom both parties consider a common enemy.Former chief minister BS Yediyurappa had made it clear that he will seek the support of former prime minister HD Deve Gowda and his former chief minister’s son, HD Kumaraswamy’s support in the upcoming polls, indicating another alliance between the two.“For the upcoming Vidhana Parishad elections, no decision has been taken on extending support to any party. There has been no discussion on this yet. But we will take a decision at the earliest or on Tuesday,” Kumaraswamy said on Sunday in Mysuru, about 125 km from Bengaluru.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/congress-trying-to-win-mlc-polls-with-money-power-karnataka-cmbommai-101638731255027.html
06-12-2021||India||Report blames Karnataka ‘government attitude’ for attacks on Christian community||A day after people from the Christian community held protests over a probable law against religious conversions in Karnataka, the Association for Protection of Civil Rights (APCR) on Sunday said the state is witnessing one of the highest incidents of attacks against the community in the country due to the government’s “attitude”.“Certain behaviour or certain utterances from the government, certain attitude from the government is the reason that this (attacks) is allowed and tolerated. This can go on and is sad for us,” Reverend Peter Machado, the Archbishop of Bengaluru said on Sunday.Since the proposal of law against religious conversions by chief minister Basavaraj Bommai and home minister Araga Gyanendra during the monsoon session of the state legislature, between September 13 and 24, there have been several instances of violence against churches and members of the community in the state.The APCR on Sunday said that there were 305 incidents of violence in the 273 days of 2021 between January and September in their report ‘Christians Under Attack in India”.The data by APCR is based on the number of calls made to the United Christian Forum toll-free number. “September witnessed the highest number of incidents with 69, followed by 50 in August and 37 in January,” according to a statement.The report added that between January and September Uttar Pradesh recorded the highest monthly incidents with 66, followed by Chattisgarh at 47. Karnataka recorded 32 incidents, among the top of the list in the country, the report added. APCR said that a total of 1,362 calls were received by the UCF helpline.Machado said that earlier such incidents were reported from interior places where there were fewer members of the community and small churches.“But to happen in Hubballi, Dharwad, Bengaluru means people are taking the law into their hands,” Machado said.The issue of forcible conversions revived momentum after Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) legislator Goolihatti Shekar made a passionate appeal to stop the practice to which his mother, he claimed, also fell “victim”.Shekar had said that his mother was among those in Chitradurga district who was “brainwashed” by the missionaries along with several others. He had claimed that people from marginalised communities and even Muslims were converted or they were slapped with false charges, and around 15,000-20,000 people in his constituency were possibly converted.Shekar had presided over an event in which at least five families “were brought back” into the Hindu fold, including his mother--a practice that is commonly referred to as “Ghar Wapsi” on September 11.HT, on October 15, had reported that the legislative committee on Backward Classes and Minorities Welfare ordered a survey of authorised and unauthorised Churches and their personnel.The committee also ordered a survey on all churches, priests and registered cases against any instances of forcible religious conversions.On November 11, Machado had written to the Bommai government not to carry on with the survey, which would lead to further discrimination and that the proposed anti-conversion bill was “undesirable and discriminatory”.“If the government puts the foot down and says that there is a law of the land in the country... there is a law in this place and therefore it should not go on and take place. Surely it will not happen,” Machado said.States like Uttar Pradesh, Madhya Pradesh, Himachal Pradesh and Uttarakhand among others have introduced similar laws.The home minister and at least two senior police officials could not be reached for comment on Sunday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/report-blames-karnataka-government-attitude-for-attacks-on-christian-community-101638731137323.html
06-12-2021||India||Remnant of cyclone Jawad leads to cloudburst in Odisha port town||A cloudburst in the port town of Paradip in Odisha’s Jagatsinghpur district on Monday almost threatened to drown the town as remnants of cyclone Jawad, which has weakened into a deep depression over Bay of Bengal, moved close to Odisha coast on Sunday afternoon, officials of the India Meteorological Department (IMD) said. Cyclone Jawad, which threatened to hit the Odisha coast at Puri, weakened to depression on Sunday afternoon before coming near the coast, but did not make landfall, IMD said. Originally estimated to bring wind gushing at 90-100 kmph, the actual wind speed was less than half of it by Sunday afternoon, IMD said. It then moved north-eastwards with a speed of 25 kmph and lay cantered about 30 km southeast of Paradip over northwest Bay of Bengal by 5.30 pm, IMD said. Moving in north-north-eastwards direction, it will weaken further by Sunday midnight along the West Bengal coast, it added. Though the system weakened, it led to a sudden downpour in Paradip, which saw 109 mm of rain between 2.30 pm and 3.30 pm after the associated cyclonic circulation over the Bay of Bengal led to intense rainfall triggered by huge difference of wind shear between upper and lower level of the atmosphere, IMD officials said. “The clouds took a tornadic structure due to the atmospheric system. Nowhere in Odisha has cloudburst occurred in the last 5 years,” said Uma Shankar Das, senior scientist in Regional Meteorological Centre, Bhubaneswar. The port town witnessed a total of 201 mm of rainfall since 8.30 am on Sunday, the highest in Odisha. “The town suddenly became almost dark like night. Heavy downpour...,” tweeted a Paradip resident. Cloudbursts are short-duration, intense rainfall events over a small area and according to IMD, result in over 100mm rainfall per hour in a particular region. As per IMD, only 30 such incidents have been recorded in India between 1970 and 2016. Cloudbursts generally occur in mountainous and desert regions, but are also experienced over continental landmasses due to strong vertical velocity with a continuous flow of moisture from nearby water bodies. Paradip Port Trust officials said no damage was caused to the port infrastructure and cleaning of choked drains was going on. Trees and branches have been cleared from the roads to make way for traffic, said a port official, adding there was no report of any casualties from the town due to the cloudburst. Depressed by the cyclonic rains damaging his standing paddy crops, a 55-year-old tribal farmer of Ganjam district in Odisha on Sunday ended his life by consuming pesticide. Special relief commissioner Pradeep Jena said considering heavy loss to agriculture sector, the district collectors have been directed to immediately prepare crop damage assessment report within seven days. “Government will take appropriate decision in regards to whatever benefit entitled,” he said.Coastal region experienced heavy rains during the last 24 hours. According to the IMD, besides Paradip, the highest rainfall of 158 mm was recorded in Khallikote in Ganjam district during the last 24 hours (till 8.30 am Sunday). Similarly, 107.5 mm rainfall was reported in Nayagarh and 86 mm in Chhatrapur. Bhubaneswar Meteorological Centre director HR Biswas said the rainfall activity will continue in Odisha during the next 24 hours as the deep depression moved along Odisha coast. “The squally weather will continue with gusty winds along the coastal region. So, the fishermen warning and port warning will remain in force till Monday. There are chances that some flights from and to Bhubaneswar might be regulated depending on the impact on visibility due to heavy rains,” Biswas said. In West Bengal, the state government stopped ferry services on the Hooghly river and urged tourists not to visit seaside resorts, as rain lashed Kolkata and other southern parts of the state on Sunday. “With the system likely to move north-northeastwards along the Odisha coast towards West Bengal and develop into a well-marked low pressure area, light to moderate rainfall has begun in Kolkata, Howrah, North and South 24 Parganas, and East and West Medinipur districts,” an official said. Heavy rain will occur in some isolated parts of south Bengal, including coastal areas of South 24 Parganas and East Medinipur districts, and parts of East Bardhaman, he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/remnant-of-cyclone-jawad-leads-to-cloudburst-in-odisha-port-town-101638731135875.html
06-12-2021||India||Eshwarappa backs home minister over foul language used against police in cow-slaughter incident||Senior BJP leader and Karnataka minister KS Eshwarappa on Sunday backed statements made by his cabinet colleague Araga Jnanendra, who has been criticised for accusing police of taking bribes to allow cow thieves and slaughter. “Jananendra never used such language in his life. He is a new minister and he has expressed his pain. We will make it stricter and the entire cabinet is with Jnanendra,” Eshwrappa said on Sunday. The statements come a day after a video purportedly showed home minister Jnanendra screaming on phone accusing police of turning a blind eye on cow thieves and slaughter despite the ban by accepting bribes and then “sleeping like dogs”. “We have brought in an anti-cow slaughter law and if the provisions of that are implemented that is more than enough. Why are they (police) closing their eyes? Do they have any connection with the cow-thieves?” Eshwarappa said. “Him (Jnanendr) scolding is not about it being right or wrong. He doesn’t have to coax them (police). They (police) have to be aware. If this happened to their ageing mothers, would they have kept quiet?” Eshwarappa said. He added that if this had happened to their ageing mothers, the choice of words could have been worse. “Those who are transporting cattle are habitual offenders. Your officers know it well but they take bribes and then sleep like dogs. Your police need self-esteem,” Jnanendra is heard purportedly saying in the video, which has gone viral on the social media. The BS Yediyurappa-led Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) government in Karnataka introduced the bill, now an act, the Karnataka Prevention of Slaughter and Preservation of Cattle Bill-2020 and was subsequently passed in the legislative council in February. The government had already promulgated the Karnataka Prevention of Slaughter and Preservation of Cattle Ordinance last year that widens existing provisions for punishment on killing of cattle. The bill also has a provision to safeguard those “acting in good faith” which activists fear would give rise to vigilantism. The new laws penalise people who slaughter cattle below the age of 13-years with a jail term of 3-5 years and fines ranging from ₹50,000- ₹10 lakh.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/eshwarappa-backs-home-minister-over-foul-language-used-against-police-in-cow-slaughter-incident-101638731076013.html
06-12-2021||India||Like farmers, people of Jammu and Kashmir may have to make ‘sacrifices’ to get back their rights: Farooq Abdullah||Srinagar: National Conference president Farooq Abdullah on Sunday said the people of Jammu and Kashmir may have to make “sacrifices”, as farmers protesting the new farm laws did, to restore its statehood and special status.Addressing a convention of the NC’s youth wing on the occasion of the 116th birth anniversary of party founder Sheikh Mohammad Abdullah at his mausoleum at Naseembagh here, Abdullah, however, said his party does not support violence.After almost a year of protests by farmers, Prime Minister Narendra Modi had on November 19 announced the decision to repeal the farm laws passed last year to ease rules around the sale, pricing and storage of crops.Parliament passed a bill to repeal the farm laws on the first day of the ongoing Winter Session on November 29.“(The farmers protested for) 11 months, more than 700 farmers died. The Centre had to revoke the three farm bills when farmers made sacrifices. We may also have to make sacrifices like that to get back our rights.“Remember this, we have promised to get back (Articles) 370, 35-A and statehood and we are ready to make any sacrifice,” Abdullah said.The NC, however, is not against brotherhood and does not support violence, he said.The Centre revoked the special status of the erstwhile state of Jammu and Kashmir and split it into two union territories on August 5, 2019.On the recent Hyderpora encounter and how the families of two civilians killed in the operation forced the administration to return their bodies, Abdullah said it was made possible because people showed unity.He demanded that the body of another person, Amir Magray, killed in the encounter also be returned to his family.“Three innocent people were killed (in the Hyderpora encounter). When people raised their voices, they (the administration) returned the bodies so that their kin could bury them. This is what unity can do.“But the body of one person has still not been returned to his family. How many innocent people would they have killed this way? We will hold them accountable. He (God) will also hold them accountable and no one will escape that,” the NC chief said.Referring to Union Home Minister Amit Shah’s remarks that tourism has increased in Jammu and Kashmir after the abrogation of Article 370, Abdullah said “as if tourism is everything” when it comes to the union territory.“You had promised 50,000 jobs, where are they? Rather you are terminating our people. Were there no people for employing in the (Jammu & Kashmir) Bank that you got people from Punjab and Haryana? “Where will the boys and girls from J&K go? But if we raise our voices, they are crushed. The media is facing pressure, they (journalists) are summoned to police stations if they write anything against (the government). And they (government) say there is freedom,” he said.Abdullah asked NC workers to remain united and hold the party flag high.“Many enemies will come and try to pull you (away) from the party, be wary (of them). They are roaming around. Do not listen to them and remain with the party,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/like-farmers-people-of-jammu-and-kashmir-may-have-to-make-sacrifices-to-get-back-their-rights-farooq-abdullah-101638731074678.html
06-12-2021||India||Last rites of Andhra ex-CM Rosaiah carried out with state honours||The mortal remains of former Chief Minister of undivided Andhra Pradesh and veteran Congress leader Konijeti Rosaiah were consigned to flames here on Sunday.Rosaiah (88) died while being taken to a private hospital here on Saturday after he fell ill.Rosaiah’s mortal remains were kept at Gandhi Bhavan, the party headquarters in Telangana, where Leader of the Opposition in Rajya Sabha Mallikarjun Kharge, Telangana state Congress president and MP A Revanth Reddy and several other leaders and workers paid their last respects.His body was taken to a farmhouse here and the funeral of the departed leader was conducted with State honours.Union Tourism Minister G Kishan Reddy, Telangana Chief Minister K Chandrasekhar Rao and several other leaders condoled the death of Rosaiah.The State government also declared three days of mourning.Rosaiah’s political journey began in 1968 as an MLC. He served as Chief Minister of Andhra Pradesh after the demise of YS Rajasekhar Reddy in 2009.He had a challenging time as the Chief Minister in view of political developments following the sudden demise of the charismatic YSR in a chopper crash and with the separate Telangana agitation gaining momentum.He was elected to the Lok Sabha from Narasaraopet in Andhra in 1999, Congress sources said. He had also served as the Governor of Tamil Nadu from August 31, 2011 to August 30, 2016||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/last-rites-of-andhra-ex-cm-rosaiah-carried-out-with-state-honours-101638731014995.html
06-12-2021||India||State reports 456 new coronavirus cases||Karnataka reported 456 new coronavirus disease (Covid-19) cases and six deaths on Sunday, with places like Bengaluru and the coffee-growing region of Chikamagaluru witnessing a sharp uptick in infection, according to the state health department data. At least 59 students of Jawahar Navodaya Vidyalaya (JNV) in Chikmagalur, about 245 km from Bengaluru, were among 66 to be tested positive in the district in the last 24 hours, the state health department said on Sunday. “We had conducted tests on 457 people in the JNV here, of which 59 students and 10 staff tested positive for Covid-19. They are asymptomatic but we have isolated them,” Dr SN Umesh, the district health officer was quoted as saying by PTI. The increase in Covid-19 cases has sparked fears in the southern state, where the first two cases of the new and highly mutated variant of SARS-CoV-2, Omicron, in the country were reported last week. All this has also added to residents’ concern of whether the state government will add more restrictions ahead of Christmas and New Year festivities. With several educational institutions reporting higher number of Covid-19 cases, many parents were hesitant about sending their wards for physical classes. On Saturday, Karnataka chief minister Basavaraj Bommai had said that any place that reports more than three Covid-19 cases will be considered a cluster. Karnataka reported 456 new infections in the last 24 hours, taking the active case count to 7,132, the health department said on Sunday. The positivity rate climbed up to 0.41%. The state also reported six more deaths due to Covid-19, at the case fatality rate of 1.31%. Bengaluru recorded 256 new infections on Sunday, taking its active case count to 5,136, the health department said. Other districts with high caseload include Chikmgaluru that reported 66 new infections and has an active caseload of 108; Dharwad with 20 new infections took its active caseload to 314 while Mysuru, with saw its active case count jump to 307, according to the state health data. In the last eight days, the state has logged 2,814 new Covid-19 cases, with Bengaluru accounting for nearly half of them, data suggests. Mysuru recorded the highest positivity rate in the last seven days (till 5 pm on Saturday) at 0.70%, followed by Shivamogga at 0.64% and Benglauru Urban at 0.55%. The state average is at 0.38% till Saturday evening, as per data. The chief minister has, meanwhile, announced a slew of measures to contain the spread of Covid-19, including allowing only fully vaccinated people into malls, cinema theatres and other public spaces to encourage more people to get inoculated. Karnataka has achieved around 94% coverage of the first dose of Covid-19 vaccine while 62% of the eligible population has received both doses, according to the health department. Vaccine hesitancy remains a problem in the state, with videos of doctors and villagers forcing people to take the jabs continue to flood social media platforms. “Karnataka is witnessing large numbers of vaccine doses administered to its residents. Both doses must be taken to gain greater immunity,” Dr K Sudhakar, Karnataka’s minister for health and family welfare had said on Friday. There have been stricter controls at the two international airports —Bengaluru and Mangaluru — in the state with only those testing negative being allowed to leave the premises. The government has also announced stricter checking at border posts to monitor and allow only vaccinated people coming in from Kerala and Maharashtra. “Among those unvaccinated, they might have their reasons. Please discuss with health professionals and get them vaccinated,” Giridhara R. Babu, epidemiologist and member of Karnataka’s expert committee on Covid-19, posted on Twitter.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/state-reports-456-new-coronavirus-cases-101638730898608.html
06-12-2021||India||Goa elections: Will increase financial aid for women if voted to power, says Kejriwal||Panaji The Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) on Sunday announced that it will increase the remuneration provided to women in Goa under a state-sponsored scheme and also promised financial assistance to women not covered under it, if it is voted to power in the forthcoming state Assembly elections.“This is going to be the biggest and most important women empowerment programme in the world, not only in India,” AAP’s national convener Arvind Kejriwal claimed, while addressing a women’s convention in South Goa’s Navelim Assembly segment.The expenses under the scheme would be around ₹500 crore annually, which would be funded by the state government by completely eliminating corruption in the system, he said.The Delhi chief minister is on a two-day visit to Goa, where the Assembly polls are due early next year.Kejriwal said if his party comes to power in Goa, then the existing remuneration of ₹1,500 provided to women under the state-sponsored ‘Griha Aadhar Scheme’ would be increased to ₹2,500, while other women aged 18 and above, who are not covered under the scheme, would be paid ₹1,000 per month.He said financial stability is most important for any woman to feel empowered. “Once a woman is financially stable, she will feel empowered as she can spend the money to do those extra things for the family,” he said.Many girls, who have left the college due to financial constraints, can use ₹1,000 per month, which will be deposited into their accounts, for continuing their education, he said. If the AAP comes to power, the state government will give an option to women, who are financially well off, to opt out of the scheme, Kejriwal said.“We will offer the scheme to all women in the state. Those who feel they don’t require it, can opt out of it,” he said.Kejriwal said there is no dearth of finances to fund such schemes in Goa. “The state budget is ₹22,000 crore, of which approximately 20 per cent, which means ₹4,400 crore goes into corruption,” he alleged. “We will pump this money into the system to fund these schemes,” he said.The AAP leader said the annual expenses of all his guarantees made in Goa would be less than ₹1,000 crore.In the 2017 Goa polls, the AAP failed to win a single seat in the 40-member state Assembly.The Congress had emerged as the single largest party by winning 17 seats in the 40-member House. But, the BJP at that time forged an alliance with some regional outfits and independent legislators to form government.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/goa-elections-will-increase-financial-aid-for-women-if-voted-to-power-says-kejriwal-101638730897225.html
06-12-2021||India||AIADMK, Sasikala differences mar Jayalalithaa’s 5th death anniversary event||The differences between AIADMK and supporters of expelled leader V K Sasikala over being the true heir to the party spilled over on the streets at J Jayalalithaa’s mausoleum on Sunday on the late chief minister’s fifth death anniversary. AIADMK’s coordinator and joint coordinator O Panneerselvam and Edappadi Palaniswami, who are the only duo to have filed nominations for internal party elections to the posts, are likely to be announced winners. They put up a united front at the mausoleum where they took a pledge that the party was a fortress that cannot be shaken by anyone. “We will not let enemies win through divide and rule conspiracies,” Panneerselvam said, and others followed suit.Later, a teary eyed Sasikala with her supporters gathered at the mausoleum, where she was hailed as general secretary of the party. They took a pledge to be united under Sasikala’s leadership to win future elections in Tamil Nadu. The AIADMK, which is allied with the Bharatiya Janata Party, lost power in the state assembly elections earlier this year.Sasikala’s nephew TTV Dhinakaran, who in 2018 floated the Amma Makkal Munnetra Kazhagam (AMMK), a breakaway faction of AIADMK, took a pledge vowing to take over the parent party. There were tense moments when Palaniswami’s car was leaving, as cadres of AIADMK and AMMK raised slogans against one another.Amidst Sasikala trying to wrest control of AIADMK, a party she manoeuvred from behind the scenes as Jayalalithaa’s close confidante, and rebel voices growing in support of her return and against the dual leadership, Panneerselvam and Palaniswami have strengthened their positions in sharing power. Not too long ago, Sasikala found support in Panneerselvam, who told reporters they will discuss her re-induction, which Palaniswami disapproved of. One again, the duo seemed to have compromised to co-exist. “We convinced Panneerselvam against it. Both of them have to work together. There is no other way,” an AIADMK leader said, requesting anonymity. On December 1, AIADMK modified its bylaws to change their internal voting process for the top posts of coordinator and joint-coordinator. Primary members (party cadre who have been members for at least five years, about 15 million) will elect party positions by a “single voting system,” where one vote will be cast for the pair contesting for the top posts. A day later, internal elections for these and other organisational posts were announced to be held on December 7. As anticipated, AIADMK’s dual leadership, Panneerselvam and Palaniswami, is the only team to have filed nominations to the posts of coordinator and joint coordinator on Saturday. There were no other candidates. “They will be declared as winners in a unanimous decision,” the leader quoted above said. This comes amid allegations that a party worker was manhandled when he tried to file his nomination on Saturday, but this has been dismissed by the party’s election commissioners, C Ponniyan and Pollachi V Jayaraman. With the bylaws changed and with holding elections immediately has given the current AIADMK structure legal validity, according to political experts. This has created more obstructions for Sasikala. Reacting to the developments, Sasikala on Saturday released a statement saying that she will not be a mute spectator. “Sasikala is a prisoner of the past and Dhinakaran adopted wrong strategies after he won in R K Nagar (the constituency that fell vacant after Jayalalithaa’s death, which he won),” said political commentator Raveendran Duraisamy. “And AIADMK is EPS plus OPS, and neither of them will give up their authority in the party.” This may be a time to bring AIADMK together to speak in one voice, political analyst Maalan Narayanan said. “OPS has been issuing statements against the DMK, but he is soft pedalling, while EPS is giving bytes on all issues, and no one seems to be taking him seriously,” said Narayanan. “It appears that Sasikala and Dhinakaran, too, aren’t getting along well together.”“It’s time that the principal opposition has a leader who enjoys the support of the cadre, and they can speak in one voice ahead of the local body polls,” Narayanan said. “That’s AIADMK’s last chance.”As Palaniswami was leaving the premises of the mausoleum on Marina beach, an unidentified man flung a slipper towards his car. A member of the AIADMK filed a complaint at the D6 Anna Square police station accusing the AMMK cadre for attempting to attack the former chief minister. “Such things usually happen during political events and usually someone files a complaint,” said an officer of the station. Reacting to the complaint, Dhinakaran took to Twitter to take a dig at the AIADMK over the alleged incident that a party member was manhandled in the headquarters when he tried to file his nomination for the two top posts. “We do not have that kind of mentality...we do not believe in violence,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/aiadmk-sasikala-differences-mar-jayalalithaa-s-5th-death-anniversary-event-101638730894910.html
06-12-2021||India||CPI (M) to take care of slain leader’s family: Kerala secretary Balakrishnan||The CPI(M) in Kerala on Sunday said it will take the responsibility of its slain leader Sandeep’s family and lashed out at the BJP-RSS leadership saying the murder was a ‘well-coordinated’ and ‘pre-planned one’.CPI(M) state secretary Kodiyeri Balakrishnan visited the family of the party’s Peringara local secretary, P B Sandeep, who was murdered by a gang on December 2, and alleged that 15 Left activists have been killed by RSS since 2016.However, BJP state chief K Surendran claimed that the CPI(M) has links to the murder case.Speaking to reporters, Balakrishnan said, “This is a planned murder by the BJP-RSS leadership. They coordinated with people from various areas to execute it. This shows that it was a pre-planned crime. It’s now clear that a gang, led by a BJP activist, as instructed by the BJP leadership has committed the brutal act. Those who were behind this ghastly act must be identified and brought to book.”He said the CPI(M) will take the responsibility of Sandeep’s family and will ensure that his widow gets a job to sustain the family.”Since 2016, the RSS has killed 15 comrades of the CPI(M) and all these years the outfit has claimed that it was the ruling CPI(M) that killed our workers. The RSS has never confessed to any of the crimes they committed. We all know that Mahatma Gandhi was killed by Nathuram Vinayak Godse. Have the RSS owned up to the crime?” Balakrishnan asked.He further said the party will bring out “these facts before the people”.”The RSS must not think that they could put an end to communism by killing a few of our comrades. That’s not going to happen. We request the outfit to step away from violent, murderous politics,” he added.The police had on Friday arrested all the five accused, including an RSS worker, in connection with the murder of Sandeep at Peringara. The police stated that the murder was owing to political rivalry.However, BJP leader Surendran claimed that the murder was due to factional feud in the Left party.“As soon as the murder took place, the then acting secretary of CPI(M) A Vijayaraghavan said it was committed by the RSS. However, those arrested have CPI(M) links. The murder cannot take place without the knowledge of the CPI(M) leadership,” Surendran alleged.The BJP had said that Jishnu, prime accused in the murder case, was earlier ousted from the party and distanced itself from the incident. But, Jishnu’s social media profiles feature images of him with BJP leaders and identifies him as a Yuva Morcha officer bearer of Peringara village.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/cpimto-take-care-of-slain-leader-s-family-kerala-secretary-balakrishnan-101638730837324.html
06-12-2021||India||Russian man tests Covid positive in Kerala amid Omicron scare||A Russian traveller, who reached Kochi on Saturday, tested positive for Covid-19, and his samples have been sent to the National Institute of Virology (NIV) in Pune, senior health officials said on Sunday.The man was tested upon arrival at the airport on Saturday night. With the latest incident, a total of five samples have now been sent to the NIV to rule out the possibility of the new variant Omicron, a senior health ministry official said. Earlier, a doctor, his mother and maid arriving from the United Kingdom (UK) tested positive for Covid. The other one to test positive is a man from Thiruvananthapuram, information of whom, the government has withheld, the official said. Union health secretary Rajesh Bhushan, in another letter to the state on Saturday, asked Kerala to take strict measures to contain a high caseload and death rate. He also pointed out that 13 out of 14 districts in the state still report a high quantum of cases. In the letter addressed to state health secretary Rajan Khobragade, Bhushan said in four districts (Thiruvananthapuram, Ernakulam, Kozhikode and Thrissur) average test positivity rate was more than 10 per cent and reiterated the need for better compliance with the test, track and treat measures to bring down the infection rate. On Sunday, the state reported 4,450 cases and 23 deaths. But 138 backlog deaths were added to the bulging list as the death toll rose to 41,600, according to the state health ministry. In fatality rate, Kerala is second after Maharashtra now. The state has inoculated 96.5 per cent of the eligible population with the first dose of the Covid vaccine and the second dose for 67.6 per cent, it said. The low death rate has been one of the key areas of improvement by the Kerala government, but the mounting addition of backlog dented its tall claims, statistics show. In the last two months, at least 5000 backlog deaths took place between March 2020 and June 2021, which were added to the fatality list later. Many public health experts and opposition parties alleged that the government was not transparent with its data and it was after records, but the latter said technical issues led to the omission.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/russian-man-tests-covid-positive-in-kerala-amid-omicron-scare-101638730834638.html
06-12-2021||India||Demand for Afspa repeal renews in Nagaland||The killing of 13 civilians in an ambush by security forces in Nagaland’s Mon district, amid the ongoing Naga peace talks, renewed the demand for the withdrawal of the Armed Forces (Special Power) Act (AFSPA), 1958 from the northeast on Sunday.AFSPA grants special powers to the armed forces to maintain public order in “disturbed areas”.As the Isak-Muivah-led National Socialist Council of Nagalim, the largest Naga rebel group, hit out at the “absurdity and insanity” of Indian security forces, it also pointed at the troubles faced by the state’s citizens in the hands of the “trigger-happy Indian security forces” under the controversial AFSPA in the past.“Unprecedented in recent history, the absurdity and insanity of the Indian security forces has been exposed in the most brutish manner, a ‘black day’ for the Nagas as the Nagas mourns the barbaric killing of innocent villagers in Oting village under Konyak Region on the evening of the 4th December, 2021,” the NSCN-IM, which is among five NSCN factions engaged in peace talks with the Centre, said.The rebel group, which signed a ceasefire pact in 1997 and a “framework agreement” in 2015, alleged that killings of civilians by security forces was an act to suppress the legitimate Naga political movement.Also Read| 5-member TMC delegation to visit Nagaland today after civilian killings“Notwithstanding the ongoing Indo-Naga political dialogue that has seen much fruition during the period running more than two decades, the violence against the Nagas continues unabated. This is one of the most unfortunate parts of the Indo-Naga ceasefire signed in 1997,” the organisation said.The Niki Sumi-led Khaplang faction of National Socialist Council of Nagaland (NSCN-K) also expressed shock at the killings which occurred amid the ongoing peace talks.“For long, Nagas have borne the brunt of atrocities of security forces who come in the guise of friends but commit the most heinous acts on innocent public. Nagas demand justice and therefore, the Government of India and Government of Nagaland as well must not delay but initiate proper investigation and take appropriate action against those playing with the lives of innocent public,” the outfit said in a release.Calling for a time-bound probe into the incident, Forum for Naga Reconciliation (FNR) said AFSPA, by its very nature, was “anti-peace” and the state government must recommend its repeal and removal of armed forces from civilian areas.The influential Naga Mothers’ Association (NMA) appealed to all Naga tribes to not celebrate the ongoing Hornbill Festival in the state capital.“It is a taboo in our Naga tradition to be feasting, while we mourn our dead in our homes. Let the world know our grief and sorrow and may our voices of protest be heard against the continuing militarization and killings under AFSPA,” NMA president Abeiu Meru said in a release.The organisation demanded that the state government take cognizance of the repeated violations of human rights under AFSPA and repeal the Act.“We demand that besides the SIT, a high-level inquiry commission be set up, inclusive of civil society, to investigate and bring the guilty to book, as per the law. We demand that all Indian Army cantonments be immediately shifted from all civilian areas and habitations,” the statement added.Political parties in the state also condemned the incident.Bharatiya Janata Party state unit chief Temjen Imna Along said the killings can never be justified.“When the Government of India and the Naga political groups are engaged in a peace process and are at the threshold of settlement to the protracted Naga political issue, it is time to exercise extreme caution and patience in order to maintain hard earned peace after decades of violent, armed struggle,” Along said in a statement.“The innocent victims were labourers returning from a hard day’s work and were not armed with any firearms whatsoever. It is therefore tantamount to war crimes during peace time and amounts to summary execution as well as genocide,” the state BJP chief, who is also a minister in the Neiphiu Rio-led United Democratic Alliance (UDA) government in Nagaland, said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/demand-for-afspa-repeal-renews-in-nagaland-101638730774838.html
06-12-2021||India||Madhya Pradesh: Teenage girl raped after giving aphrodisiac drug, dies of bleeding, say police||Anuppur (Madhya Pradesh): A 17-year-old girl died due to excessive bleeding after she was allegedly raped by a man who gave her aphrodisiac capsules in Madhya Pradesh’s Anuppur district, a senior police officer said on Sunday. The incident occurred at a village under the Rajendragram police station, about 28 km away from the Anuppur district headquarter, on the intervening night of Friday and Saturday, the officer said. An aphrodisiac is a substance that increases sexual desire. Substances range from a variety of plants, foods, and certain chemicals. Talking to reporters, DC Sagar, additional director general (ADG) of police, Shahdol zone, said, “Police are making all efforts to nab the accused and a bounty of ₹30,000 was announced on his head.” The accused, identified as Yashwant Maravi, is on the run. A senior police officer at Rajendragram police station, Narendra Pal, on Sunday said the police had received information about the death of a 17-year-old girl on Saturday, following which a case was registered. The investigation and a short postmortem report revealed that the girl was raped and died due to excessive bleeding from her private part, he said. “The girl was given some aphrodisiac capsules by the accused, aged around 20-22 years, before committing the crime,” Pal said. He said the victim was in severe pain when she returned (to her home) on Saturday morning and narrated her ordeal to a woman member of family before her death. The accused was booked under sections 376 (Punishment for rape), 363, 366 (abduction) and 304 (culpable homicide not amounting to murder) of the Indian Penal Code along with relevant sections of the Protection of Children from Sexual Offences (POCSO) Act. Meanwhile, villagers on Sunday staged a protest at the Rajendragram police station alleging laxity by the police in nabbing the accused.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/madhya-pradesh-teenage-girl-raped-after-giving-aphrodisiac-drug-dies-of-bleeding-say-police-101638730594518.html
06-12-2021||India||‘Lungi-wearing’ remark: Akhilesh attacks Maurya, says BJP promoting hate||Samajwadi Party chief Akhilesh Yadav on Sunday hit back at Uttar Pradesh deputy chief minister Keshav Prasad Maurya over his “lungi-wearing people” remark, saying with the state elections coming to a close, “the language of Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) will change and go down further”.“As the elections get closer, the language of BJP will change and go down further. The BJP is dividing people and promoting hate politics,” the former chief minister said.Maurya, at an event on Friday, had described those wearing “lungi and topi” as a challenge to the law and order situation for previous governments in Uttar Pradesh. Maurya had also said that after 2017, ever since the BJP government was formed in the state, such ‘criminals’ have not been seen. “If you ask the BJP about the income of traders and businessmen, they will be silent. If you question them on unemployment, they will look elsewhere. Inflation has increased due to steps like demonetisation and GST,” Yadav said.The SP chief also alleged that the state government had failed to provide security to traders, alleging the dial-100 helpline started by his government has been rendered “useless” by the present regime.BJP leader Abhishek Pandey ‘Rupak’ said: “What did the SP leader find wrong in Keshav ji’s statement? Isn’t it a fact that appeasement politics was the norm prior to BJP coming to power at the centre and in UP?”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/lungiwearing-remark-akhilesh-attacks-maurya-says-bjp-promoting-hate-101638730534587.html
06-12-2021||India||WW-II veteran, who served in all 3 defence wings, dies||World War II veteran Col Prithipal Singh Gill (retd), a centenarian with the unique distinction of having served in all three wings of the armed forces – Air Force, Navy and Army – breathed his last on Sunday afternoon. He was 100 and died just a week before his 101st birthday.His last rites were performed at Sector 25 cremation ground in Chandigarh, with friends, relatives and officers from the army’s Western Command in attendence.Gill is survived by his wife, a son, three grandchildren and three great-grandchildren.“He was perfectly alright, but age caught up with him. He was a little sluggish in the morning, and when we checked on him in the afternoon, we realised he had left us,” said his son Dr Ajaipal Singh Gill. “My father had a good life. He lived the way he wanted to.”Gill, a resident of Sector 35, had begun his service life with the Royal Indian Air Force in 1942. He joined as a flight cadet in Karachi. However, his father, Harpal Singh Gill, an army officer, was not too happy with his flying career and he had to give it up on his father’s insistence.Later, he joined the Navy when he was 23 and served for five years, from 1943 to 1948. After then joined the Army in 1951 and was posted to the Regiment of Artillery.Gill raised and commanded the 71 Medium Regiment during the India-Pakistan War of 1965. After attaining the rank of colonel, he took early retirement in 1970. He was a good sportsman as well.Even in the twilight years of his life, his charismatic smile and robust health made him stand out, which he had attributed to his inherited genes. Born in 1920 in Patiala, he studied at Government College, Lahore. In 1950, he married Preminder Kaur.A close family friend, Justice HS Bedi (retd), said: “Apart from being a distinguished serviceman, he was a wonderful human being. It’s a great loss for us.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/wwii-veteran-col-prithipal-singh-gill-retd-who-served-in-all-3-defence-wings-dies-101638730414587.html
06-12-2021||India||Nagaland’s Mon district tense after stir over civilian killings turns violent||Nagaland’s Mon district remained on edge on Sunday as violent protests broke out against the killing of 13 civilians by the Indian Army in a botched counter-insurgency operation, prompting the authorities to impose curfew in the area and prohibit movement of all non-essential vehicles, people familiar with the matter said.On Saturday, army personnel gunned down seven coal mine workers after mistaking them to be insurgents. Soon after the incident, angry villagers reached the spot and set ablaze two security vehicles, sparking off another round of firing by forces to “control the situation” in which at least six villagers and one soldier died, people familiar with the matter said on condition of anonymity.Also Read| 5-member TMC delegation to visit Nagaland today after civilian killingsA mob protesting against Saturday’s incident surrounded an Assam Rifles’ camp in the district and set parts of it afire, officials familiar with the matter said. Security personnel opened fire on the mob, killing one civilian, they added. The protesters also ransacked the office of Konyak Union.The Nagaland government has banned mobile internet and SMS services in the region to curb “circulation of inflammatory videos, pictures or text,” an official directive said.A notification issued by the state home department banning the services alluded to the “apprehension of grave law and order problems” in the district and said “Short Message Service (SMS), Whatsapp, Facebook, and other social media platforms could be used for spreading of rumours, fake news, and for circulating inflammatory texts, pictures, videos etc. which may inflame passions and thus exacerbate the law-and-order situation.”The gunning down of the civilians renewed the demand for the withdrawal of the Armed Forces Special Power Act (AFSPA) from the state. The Act, which grants special powers to the forces to maintain public order in “disturbed areas”, has been a contentious issue in the state, with civil society members saying that it gives personnel impunity to carry out excesses and forces saying that it helps them maintain order in restive areas.Also Read| Demand for Afspa repeal renews in Nagaland“It is under cover of the AFSPA that Indian Army personnel indulge in such acts of terror on innocent Nagas, go scot-free, and quickly return to calling themselves “friends” of the hill people,” The Naga People’s Front (NPF), a regional political party, said in a statement.The Eastern Nagaland People’s Organisation (ENPO) urged six tribes of the region to withdraw participation from the ongoing Hornbill Festival, which is the state’s biggest tourism attraction.“It has to be understood by all concerned that this order/move is not against the State Govt., but to show resentment against the security forces who have committed this heinous crime, and to show solidarity of the six tribes,” a release issued by the organisation said.(With inputs from agencies)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/nagalands-mon-district-tense-after-stir-over-civilian-killings-turns-violent-101638730295882.html
06-12-2021||India||Woman in Kota jumps into well with five minor daughters: Cops||Upset over regular fights with her husband, a 40-year-old woman allegedly jumped into a well with her five minor daughters, all of whom died, when the man had gone to attend the condolence meeting of a relative, police said Sunday. They said the villagers spotted the six bodies Sunday morning and informed the police who rushed the bodies to a local hospital.The deceased woman was a mother of seven. While the five minor daughters died by drowning, the police said the two other daughters escaped the ill-fate as they remained asleep during the incident.Chechat Circle Officer DSP Praveen Nayak said prima facie the routine fights between the woman and her husband was the reason behind the woman taking the extreme step.Her husband worked as a blanket and cloth vendor.The CO said the man was not present at his home when the incident occurred on the intervening night of Saturday on Sunday as he had gone to attend the condolence meeting at his relative’s home in another village.Chechat police station SHO Rajendra Meena said the well is just 100 meters from the house of the woman.The husband returned to home Sunday morning after being informed of the incident but he did not tell the police why his wife took the extreme step, the SHO said.A case under section 174 of CrPC would be lodged in the matter to investigate carried out, he said.The postmortem of the six bodies is underway, SHO Meena said. (If you need support or know someone who does, please reach out to your nearest mental health specialist.) Helplines: Aasra: 022 2754 6669; Sneha India Foundation: +914424640050 and Sanjivini: 011-24311918||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/woman-in-kota-jumps-into-well-with-five-minor-daughters-cops-101638730234621.html
06-12-2021||India||UP: Convoy of RLD leader who switched from BSP shot at||Five people were injured after a group of car-borne assailants opened fire at the convoy of Rashtriya Lok Dal (RLD) leader Haji Yunus in Uttar Pradesh’s Bulandshahr district on Sunday, police said.Yunus’ nephew, Anas, who is currently in jail, is suspected to be behind the attack, they added. Bulandshahr senior superintendent of police (SSP) Santosh Kumar Singh said the incident took place near Rajwaha bridge in Kotwali area when the RLD leader was on his way to Mirzapur village after attending a wedding in Bhaipur village of Kotwali Dehat limits.Unidentified car-borne assailants arrived and opened fire at Yunus’ convoy, leaving five people, who were accompanying him, injured. The remaining supporters of the RLD leader opened fire in retaliation, following which the criminals fled, leaving behind their car, the SSP said.“At least 15 to 20 rounds were fired from both sides,” Singh said, adding that Yunus suspected the role of his nephew behind the attack. The SSP said that efforts are underway to identify the assailants.The attack came a day after Yunus quit the Bahujan Samaj Party (BSP) and joined the RLD ahead of elections next year.No first information report was filed in connection with Sunday’s incident till the time of going to press.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/upconvoy-of-rld-leader-who-switched-from-bsp-shot-at-101638730054533.html
06-12-2021||India||AI pilots to meet aviation secretary to discuss demands||Air India pilots on Sunday announced that they will meet aviation secretary Rajiv Bansal, who is also the chairman and managing director of the airline, on Monday to discuss their demands of payment clearance before the airline is handed over to the new owner, before taking a decision on going on a strike.“Talks with management along with @PilotsIndian regarding 60% pay cut only for Licensed employees, inconclusive. Meeting management (CMD/ SECY MOCA) tomorrow to find a peaceful resolve. @MoCA_GoI @TataCompanies @RNTata2000#peacefulresolution,” the Air India’s Boeing pilots’ union, Indian Pilots’ Guild, tweeted on Sunday. Air India pilots had, on November 29, given an ultimatum of three days to the airline’s management to meet their demands and warned of “Industrial Action” if their paycuts and arrears were not duly paid before the takeover. The letter was written by the airline’s Airbus’ union — Indian Commercial Pilots’ Guild (ICPA) and Indian Pilots’ Guild (IPG) that represent over 900 pilots.“We are firm with our decision of industrial action. We are meeting our CMD with a hope that he will have a definite solution to our issues. We sincerely hope that the airline doesn’t not force us to take the extreme decision,” a senior pilot said on condition of anonymity.In their previous letters, the pilots complained that they are burdened by the “illegal pay cut” of 55% and demanded to be paid as per market standards. Mentioning their long-standing disinvestment issues, the pilots also demanded the withheld 25% arrears with interest, statement of gratuity, an option of leave encashment, medical benefits for all permanent employees, tax implication on withheld layover substance allowance, and release of pending grades to first officers.Senior Air India officials, however, said the meeting with representatives from both the pilot groups on December 3 was inconclusive. “The management was informed that we are aware of Air India’s revenues going back to pre-Covid levels and that most pilots are working more than they did pre-Covid. The management asked us to hold on till the takeover. However, both unions warned of serious consequences if the issued was not solved,” said a senior pilot.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/ai-pilots-to-meet-aviation-secretary-to-discuss-demands-101638729994667.html
06-12-2021||India||Jaishankar meets UAE leaders, discusses ties||External Affairs Minister S Jaishankar met the Crown Prince of Abu Dhabi Mohammed bin Zayed Al Nahyan and Foreign Minister Sheikh Abdullah bin Zayed here and expressed confidence that the bilateral strategic ties between India and the UAE will scale new heights in the years to come.Jaishankar is here to attend the 5th Indian Ocean Conference on December 4-5. The theme of the Indian Ocean Conference 2021 is “Indian Ocean: Ecology, Economy, Epidemic”.“Thank HH@MohamedBinZayed for receiving me today. Conveyed the greetings of Prime Minister @narendramodi on the Golden Jubilee of UAE,” Jaishankar tweeted after his meeting with the Crown Prince of Abu Dhabi.“Confident that our close partnership will scale new heights in the years to come,” he wrote.Sheikh Mohamed and Jaishankar discussed cooperation and joint action that solidify the strategic partnership between the UAE and India and achieve their common interests and aspirations of their two friendly peoples. He and the visiting minister also exchanged views on various regional and international issues and developments of common interest, UAE’s official WAM news agency reported.Sheikh Mohamed welcomed the visit of Jaishankar, who conveyed the congratulations of Prime Minister Narendra Modi, on the occasion of the UAE’s celebrations of its golden jubilee, his wishes for the country and its people further progress and prosperity, and for the relations between the two countries to advance and develop further.Sheikh Mohamed conveyed his greetings to the Indian Prime Minister and his wishes for further development and growth for the friendly Indian people. He expressed his thanks and appreciation to Prime Minister Modi for his good wishes for the UAE’s national day, the report said.Earlier, Jaishankar met his counterparts from the UAE and Oman and discussed bilateral cooperation with them before the start of an international conference on the Indian Ocean that began here on Saturday.Jaishankar also met Sri Lankan President Gotabaya Rajapaksa, who gave the inaugural address at the conference.“Good to meet President @GotabayaR at the 5th Indian Ocean Conference. His address was a prominent feature of the inaugural session,” he said.Over two days, senior leaders from Indian Ocean littoral countries will cover the issues related to the region in the pre-conference workshops and plenary sessions, the India Foundation said.“A pleasant moment before the start of the Indian Ocean Conference with my counterparts from UAE (Sheikh Abdullah bin Zayed) and Oman (Sayyid Badr Albusaidi),” Jaishankar said in a tweet.“A warm meeting with UAE FM@ AB Zayed in Abu Dhabi. Noted the steady progress in our bilateral cooperation. As always, his insights on global and regional developments were of great value,” he said in another tweet.There will be around 200 delegates and over 50 speakers from 30 countries. The inaugural address will be delivered by President of Sri Lanka Gotabaya Rajapaksa, the think-tank said.The conference is being organised in collaboration with the RSIS Singapore, Institute of National Security Studies, Sri Lanka, and the Emirates Centre for Strategic Studies and Research, UAE, it added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/jaishankar-meets-uae-leaders-discusses-ties-101638729814651.html
06-12-2021||India||UP elections: Earlier governments ignored needs of Gorakhpur, says CM Yogi||December 7 will be etched in golden letters in the history of development of eastern Uttar Pradesh because Prime Minister Narendra Modi would gift projects worth almost ₹10,000 crore to the region, chief minister Yogi Adityanath said on Sunday.These projects include a fertilizer factory worth ₹8600 crore, an All India Institute of Medical Sciences (AIIMS) worth ₹1,010 crores and three pathological laboratories at BRD Medical College.Modi had fulfilled the dreams of Purvanchal, Yogi said at a media briefing in Gorakhnath temple. The promised investment would be the largest ever in eastern Uttar Pradesh since Independence, and will propel the region on a path of growth and development.The Prime Minister had laid the foundation stones of the fertilizer factory and AIIMS at Manbela ground on July 22, 2016, during a rally in the run up to the 2017 assembly elections.The fertilizer factory that was once the pride of Purvanchal for producing urea was shut down following an accident, rendering many jobless, Yogi said. It always seemed impossible to restart this unit, but Modi made it possible by first laying its foundation and then inaugurating it, the chief minister said.“Whenever we demanded restoration of the closed fertilizer factory, we merely got assurances from the previous government. But Modiji realised that the fertilizer factory was necessary for prosperity of the region,” Yogi said.The fertilizer factory, to be built on an area of 600 acres with a capacity to manufacture 12 lakh metric tonnes of neem coated urea, was being set up by Hindustan Urvarak and Rasayan LimitedTalking about the deaths of children due to encephalitis and recalling his effort as Gorakhpur MP to fight against the disease, Yogi said, “There was a time when flood and disease became the identity of Purvanchal. Over the decades, 40,000 to 50,000 children died of encephalitis, but the previous government remained insensitive towards the condition of the poor and helpless people. It was PM Modi who understood their pain, and gave AIIMS for treatment of such diseases.”When the virus of encephalitis was first recognized in 1971 by the Institute of Virology in Pune, there were no labs in Gorakhpur and samples used to go to Pune for testing. “But now we have set up three highly advanced labs at the Regional Medical Centre, BRD Medical College,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/up-elections-earlier-governments-ignored-needs-of-gorakhpur-says-cm-yogi-101638729757201.html
06-12-2021||India||Covid-19: Expert panel to meet on booster shot today||India’s expert panel on Covid-19 immunisation will likely decide on additional doses of vaccines on Monday, and the process would be implemented in phases, with those at high risk receiving priority, according to people familiar with the matter.The National Technical Advisory Group on Immunisation (NTAGI), the panel that advises the central government on issues related to immunization, including Covid-19 vaccination, has been working on a comprehensive policy for both additional vaccine doses and vaccination among those less than 18 years of age.“This may be called an additional dose, which is being considered for immuno-compromised people to provide additional protection as they are at a higher risk. It’s different from a booster dose that is given after the immunity wanes,” a government expert said on condition of anonymity.Also Read| After favouring booster dose for 40+, INSACOG says ‘more experiments required’The government has maintained the booster dose was not its focus, as the priority was to vaccinate all eligible people as fast as possible.NTAGI will also take up the matter of vaccinating children against Covid-19. Even if a consensus is reached on starting vaccination in children among panel members, it is likely that the exercise will be conducted in a phased manner, where the first phase will include children with co-morbidities, the people said.Government experts are working on a list of co-morbidities that could determine which children are first eligible for the vaccine. The list is likely to have those on cancer treatment, transplant cases, and those with compromised immunity, among others.The decision to vaccinate children will not be taken in a hurry, health minister Mansukh Mandaviya has said on several occasions.“The experts have to be fully convinced on the issue, as it is a matter of children,” Mandaviya said at a recent media briefing. “The decision of the experts will be final on this.”
06-12-2021||India||V-P Naidu meets govt, Opposition leaders on MPs’ suspension||With the Upper House crawling back to normalcy, Rajya Sabha chairman Venkaiah Naidu met government managers and key Opposition leaders last Friday and told them to look into the possibilities of ending the suspension of 12 MPs who have been barred for the entire session.The revocation of the suspension of 12 Opposition MPs, who faced action for their conduct on the last day of the monsoon session, hinges on an expression of regret from the Opposition or a suo motu move by the government.“Since the suspension was done through a motion moved by the treasury bench, any subsequent motion to revoke the suspension has to be moved by the government only,” said a senior Rajya Sabha functionary.The Opposition has so far refused to express regret and even challenged the decision on technical points. On Monday, the Upper House would be discussing price rise—a pet issue for the Opposition. Opposition leaders maintained that they are keen to participate in the discussion but their protests would go on outside Parliament unless the suspension order is lifted.In the meeting, a functionary present said, Naidu urged both sides to talk among themselves and see if the suspension issue can be resolved. “A senior government leader maintained that a statement or a submission expressing regret in some way is expected from the Opposition.”Last Monday, six Congress MPs, a couple of MPs both from Trinamool and Shiv Sena and one lawmaker each from the CPI(M) and the CPI were suspended for the entire session.In the meeting, government managers proposed that the parties can give individual statements or the Leader of Opposition can speak for all of them. But so far, the government is still trying to extract an apology or expression of regret for the unruly scenes of the last session.“The Upper House, that lost 52.30% of the scheduled sitting time in the first week of the winter session, scored 100% productivity last Friday and 95% on the previous day last week, showing signs of return of the House to normal functioning,” said a Rajya Sabha official.On Friday, 22 private members’ bills were introduced in the Upper House but no discussion could take place. A private bill seeking to amend the Preamble of the Constitution was put on hold due to Opposition pressure.Addressing the Upper House on Friday, Naidu said, “It is human to err and it is also human to make amends. One cannot refuse to amend and insist on glossing over the wrong doings... I urge both the sides of this august House to talk it out and let the House do its mandated job.”As Opposition members argued that the suspension was not in order, Naidu said, “...Some of the respected leaders and members of this august House, in their wisdom, chose to describe the suspension of 12 members as ‘undemocratic’. I have struggled to understand if there was any justification in that kind of a narrative being propagated but could not.”The leader of the Opposition had written to Naidu last week to maintain that moving the motion on suspension and its adoption was a “gross violation of Rules of Procedure regarding suspension of members provided under Rule 256” and he was not allowed to raise a point of order when the motion was being moved.“As per the well-established conventions, every member who seeks to raise a point of order has to be permitted by the Chair to raise a point of order. Furthermore, when the leader of the Opposition is seeking to raise a point of order, he has to be allowed to raise the same. I was, however, not allowed to raise my point or order. This in itself is a gross violation of the well-settled and time-honoured parliamentary conventions,” he said.
06-12-2021||India||Omicron count jumps to 21, experts stress on screening||As the number of cases of Omicron variant of Sars-Cov-2 continued to grow in India with at least four new clusters — two in Maharashtra and one each in Rajasthan and Delhi — emerging in the country on Sunday, experts stressed on the need for aggressive screening and contact tracing of all such cases to prevent the domestic spread of the highly mutated variant.On Sunday, 17 new cases of the newly identified variant were confirmed by genome sequencing across the country, taking the total number of such infections in India to 21.Of these, the biggest cluster was located in Jaipur, where nine people who were confirmed to have been infected with Omicron — this included four members of a family who had recently returned from South Africa, and five of their relatives, state officials said.The second major Omicron cluster detected on Sunday was situated in Pimpri-Chinchwad, on the outskirts of Pune, where seven people were found infected with the Omicron variant. This includes a 44-year-old Nigerian national of Indian origin, her two daughters, her brother, and his two daughters, officials said.Other than these two, clusters consisting of a standalone infection each were detected on Sunday in Pune and Delhi. The infection in Pune was a reported in a 47-year-old-man travelled to Finland last month, while the case in Delhi had a travel history to Tanzania, state officials said.This has taken the number of cases of the new in the country to 21.Experts, meanwhile, stressed that the strictness of how authorities handle the way cases are traced, tracked, and isolated, will go on to form a crucial part that will define the efforts to contain the spread and the possibility of more clusters emerging.“Covid19 appropriate behaviour is now more pertinent, with the emergence of this variant. And as the source of this variant is from outside the country, the need is to ensure effective screening. As of now, the possibility of having more Omicron clusters is not very high,” said Dr Sudheer Bhandari, principal of SMS Medical College in Jaipur.“How many people will be infected, and how many will need hospitalisation and how many will succumb to the infection will depend on the nature and status of individual immunity and how much we as a community will adhere to the Covid protocols. Even if the percentage of affected people or complications might be low; with increased transmission - the absolute numbers could be overwhelming,” said Dr Anup R Warrier, head, Infectious Diseases and Infection Control, Aster DM Healthcare’s India Units.In Maharashtra, health minister Rajesh Tope stressed on the need for increasing vaccination coverage. “However, there is no cause for panic, as feedback about Omicron from South Africa, opinions of experts, and the study of this variant, indicates that it has mild symptoms, but high transmissibility,” he said, adding that in South Africa, there were no reports of any high need for hospitalisation, ICU admissions or death rate.To be sure, neither of those characteristics are still confirmed and scientists are carrying out studies to establish whether the variant is more transmissible, resistant or virulent.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/omicron-count-jumps-to-21-experts-stress-on-screening-101638729577046.html
06-12-2021||India||Landslide warning system under trial, Parliament told||India is developing an early warning system for landslides that would help save lives and prevent damage to property, Parliament was told last week. The system, dubbed LEWS, is being tested by the Geological Survey of India in the two hilly districts of Darjeeling in West Bengal and Nilgiris in Tamil Nadu, and is likely to be operational by 2025, the earth sciences ministry informed the Rajya Sabha. The prototype regional Landslide Early Warning System (LEWS), being developed by the Geological Survey in collaboration with its British counterpart under the aegis of the National Environmental Research Council’s LANDSLIP project, is based on rainfall thresholds since 2017. There has been increasing incidence of landslides in the country, particularly due to excessive rainfall during the monsoon season in Kerala, Uttarakhand and Maharashtra. In response to a question on the number of people killed during the monsoon floods this year, the home ministry said: “This ministry does not maintain the centralised data regarding loss of human lives and crops due to any calamity. However, state-wise details of the human lives lost and loss of crops due to hydro-meteorological calamities, including floods, landslides, during the year 2021-22, as assessed/ reported by the state governments/ Union territories.” As per data shared by states and UTs, 2002 persons were killed in cyclonic storms/ heavy rains/ floods/ landslides in 2021-22 and crop area of 50.40 lakh ha was damaged. The LANDSLIP project developed a prototype last year based on terrain-specific rainfall thresholds in the two test areas. Since the 2020 southwest monsoon, the Geological Survey has started issuing daily landslide forecasts during the summer monsoon to district administrations in Darjeeling and Nilgiris, the central government said. GSI has also laid the groundwork to develop regional LEWS in other landslide-prone states like Uttarakhand, Kerala, Sikkim from this year and plans to add five more – Himachal Pradesh, Karnataka, Assam, Meghalaya and Mizoram – by 2022.“The evaluation and calibration of the models will continue during the next few monsoon years and the regional LEWS will be made operational in phases in all such 10 states, the earth sciences ministry told Parliament.India’s National Disaster Management Authority has also constituted a group that includes the National Institute of Hydrology, Indian space Research Organisation, Geological Survey of India and Wadia Institute of Himalayan Geology, among others, to develop a monitoring and early warning system for rock and snow avalanche events including glacier and landslide lake outburst floods to reduce cascading impacts like flash floods and landslides in downstream areas. The authority released guidelines on management of such floods and a summary for policy makers on October 13.India currently does not have an early warning system for glacier-related disasters but has conducted studies on their melting by assessing mass balance studies and monitoring the recession of selected Himalayan glaciers, which have been receding due to global warming.In a response to another question on increasing lightning deaths on December 1, the earth sciences ministry told the Lok Sabha that lightning activity has shown an increasing trend in the past two decades. “Northeast, east and parts of peninsular India have registered a sharp increase of lighting over the past two decades, the miniostry said in its response. As many as 2,357 persons died due to lightning strikes in 2018, it said. The number was 2,876 in 2019, and 2,862 in 2020. Rainfall patterns in many parts of country has also been changing, partly due to climate change. There is an increasing trend of heavy rainfall events over Saurashtra and Kutch, southeastern Rajasthan, northern Tamil Nadu, northern Andhra Pradesh, southwest Odisha, Chhattisgarh, southwest Madhya Pradesh, West Bengal, Manipur, Mizoram, Konkan, Goa and Uttarakhand, the ministry told the Lok Sabha on December 1.The India Meteorological Department has carried out an analysis of observed monsoon rainfall variability in all states. Five states – Uttar Pradesh, Bihar, West Bengal, Meghalaya and Nagaland – have shown significant decreasing trends in southwest monsoon rainfall between 1989 and 2018, the weather office found. “It is possible to develop an early warning system for landslides. In Uttarakhand, we have a proposal where landslides or avalanches can be mapped through a careful study of geology, faults, folds, thrusts, curvature, slope, magnitude of slope, vegetation cover, seismicity, etc, which can help us identify a large susceptibility zone. From IMD, we can get rainfall data and forecast for automatic weather station network and use artificial intelligence for quick decision making. An early warning system can be created which gives people 20 minutes time to evacuate. People should also respond to such a system, then it can be successful,” Kalachand Sain, director, Wadia Institute of Himalayan Geology, said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/landslide-warning-system-under-trial-parliament-told-101638729574888.html
06-12-2021||India||Face of Oppn will be decided by upa collectively, says Chhattisgarh CM||Days after Mamata Banerjee’s “no UPA” jibe, Chhattisgarh chief minister Bhupesh Baghel on Sunday said a decision on who would be the face of the Opposition that would take on Prime Minister Narendra Modi in the 2024 general election would be taken collectively by the constituents of the United Progressive Alliance (UPA) that is headed by Sonia Gandhi.“Several parties comprise the UPA whose chairperson is Sonia Gandhi, and all parties will decide on the issue together,” Baghel said.Asked if Rahul Gandhi should be the face of the Opposition bloc to take on PM Modi in 2024, Baghel said he is “too small a person” to decide on such matters and is not authorised by the party to comment on all such issues. Baghel added that in the whole country, there is only one leader that is taking on the central government and BJP, and that is Rahul Gandhi.The Chattisgarh chief minister also attacked the TMC chief, saying she must clarify whether she wants to make TMC the main Opposition party by fighting those in power or by taking on fellow Opposition parties.He also said no Opposition alliance is possible at the national level without the Congress which has to be the main pillar of the bloc taking on the BJP.Baghel said, “I would like to say to Mamata Banerjee that you want to become the main opposition party, it is a very good thing. If you want to move forward with a plan, harbouring a dream, it will be welcomed, but the question is whether you want to become the main Opposition party by fighting those in power or by taking on fellow Opposition parties.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/face-of-oppn-will-be-decided-by-upa-collectively-says-chhattisgarh-cm-101638729517115.html
06-12-2021||India||BJP won’t topple Rajasthan government, will win elections: Amit Shah||Refuting allegations that the Bharatiya Janata Party was trying to destabilize the Congress government in Rajasthan, Union home minister Amit Shah said the party had no such intention, expressing confidence that BJP will surely form the next government in the state with a strong mandate. “They are always in fear that their government will collapse. Who is going to topple the government? No one,” Shah said at a gathering of the BJP state lawmakers on Sunday. “BJP will never topple your government. BJP will go to the masses and will come to power with a strong mandate in 2023.”Attacking the Ashok Gehlot-led Congress government over various issues such as poor law and order situation, corruption, unemployment and misgovernance, Shah called upon party workers to oust the Congress government from power. “Once again, we have to oust the useless and corrupt Gehlot government in Rajasthan and bring BJP to the power with a two-thirds majority,” he said. “If you think that your government is working well, then elections in Uttar Pradesh are also coming,” Shah said. “Get elections in Rajasthan also done along with it…you will get to know what the public wants. We want that you complete your tenure till 2023 and work for the people.”Although former Prime Minister Indira Gandhi of the Congress gave a call of garibi hatao in the seventies, the work to eliminate poverty was started after Narendra Modi’s government came to power in 2014, Shah said. “Congress only worked to remove the poor instead of poverty,” the federal home minister said. “It was the Modi government which worked for the upliftment of the poor, and provided electricity, gas connections, toilets and pucca houses in rural households,” he said. Shah called upon BJP workers to mount pressure on the Gehlot government to reduce taxes. He alleged that the Gehlot government has shuttered many welfare programmes of the previous Vasundhara Raje government and is creating obstacles in the implementation of central schemes.“The Ashok Gehlot government in Rajasthan is invisible,” former chief minister Vasundhara Raje said at the event. “The law and order and government, both are invisible in the state. The government is completing three years, but not a single work is visible.”“The BJP will win assembly elections in 2023 and all 25 Lok Sabha seats in 2024 (national elections),” said BJP state chief Satish Poonia . Commenting on Shah’s visit, state Congress president Govind Singh Dotasara said BJP’s claim of returning to power with a two-thirds majority was a pipe dream. “They are arrogant. It was visible during the welcome of Shah, when he didn’t even look at party workers,” he said. The central government and BJP have only one agenda, that of dividing the people in name of religion, Dotasara said. Dotasara claimed that Shah was ill-informed as the Rajasthan government has already reduced state levies on petrol and diesel. 
06-12-2021||India||December 5: What we know about Omicron variant so far||The number of Omicron cases and their share in genotyped samples has consistently risen across several parts of the world over the weekend.The first two cases in India were confirmed on Thursday and by Sunday, the tally grew to 21. In South Africa, where the variant is believed to have taken hold in some regions, the weekly average of new infections jumped from less than 2,000 on November 28 to over 8,500 on December 4. In the UK, Omicron’s share in all samples analysed to determine their genome sequence roughly doubled every three days. Similar growth has been recorded in European genome surveillance.To be sure, some of these trends may reflect a bias – countries are now targeting testing at people suspected to have the variant (due to their travel and contact history) and are genotyping more samples. But they fit into a consistent trend seen since the beginning of the month from several parts of the world, reinforcing the assumption that the variant is significantly more transmissible.Reduced incubation?On Sunday, a press release by the UK government announcing mandatory pre-departure test for anyone wanting to enter the country cited new analysis by the UK Health Security Agency (UKHSA) that indicates “the window between infection and infectiousness may be shorter for the Omicron variant”.There are two ways to look at this: first, it strengthens the assumption that the large number of mutations in Omicron is causing changes in how Covid-19 could clinically manifest.Second, as the UK government noted, a reduced incubation period increases the likelihood that pre-departure tests will identify positive cases before travel.The UKHSA cited is yet to be released.Milder infections?Experts are watching local disclosures from hospitals in South Africa’s Tshwane, which is in the Gauteng province – the hotspot of Omicron infections. The university hospital in Pretoria released a patient snapshot of the district hospital in Tshwane, where about 21% of the patients were on oxygen support after developing Covid-19.The assessment adds: “This is a picture that has not been seen in previous waves. In the beginning of all three previous waves and throughout the course of these waves, there has always only been a sprinkling of patients on room air in the COVID ward”.The report, thus, implies that there are more Covid-19 patients in regular wards of the hospital than on oxygen support compared to previous Covid-19 waves which were caused by other variants.While this could be good news, there are several factors that could be involved – most of the infections may have happened in younger people, who are more likely to have high contacts. But, more importantly, it could simply be too soon for the infections to have progressed to a stage where people need oxygen support.The larger threatThe question over whether the variant causes more severe disease is one of two that scientists are racing to answer (that it has high transmissibility is all but confirmed) -- the other is how resistant is it?A recent mathematical modelling has shown that variants with higher transmissibility are bad in themselves, but they become significantly worse if they are resistant to antibodies (from past infection or vaccines).Published in the journal Cell, the study by researchers from Harvard said: “Variants with enhanced transmissibility frequently increase epidemic severity, whereas those with partial immune escape either fail to spread widely, or primarily cause reinfections and breakthrough infections”.But if a variant has both the traits – high transmissibility as well as the ability to escape immunity – “a variant can continue spreading even as immunity builds up in the population, limiting the impact of vaccination and exacerbating the epidemic.”Last week, a preliminary scientific assessment from South Africa said the variant appeared to be significantly more resistant to natural immunity in people who previously had Covid-19. They were yet to study the effects on those who had a vaccine, or both, a shot and an infection.The UKHSA, in a report released on Friday, said structural modelling by University of Oxford made similar conclusions.The wait for conclusive evidence on this, however, continues.
06-12-2021||India||Putin arrives today; defence, strategic issues on the agenda||India and Russia will hold the first 2+2 format dialogue in New Delhi on Monday, and discuss key bilateral, regional and international issues, including the situation in the Asia-Pacific region, during Russian President Vladimir Putin’s day-long visit, according to officials. The two nations have been putting the finishing touches to agreements in defence, trade, space, technology and energy that are expected to be signed during the annual summit between Prime Minister Narendra Modi and President Putin. Ahead of Putin’s visit, the Indian government has already cleared a plan for the joint production of more than 500,000 AK-203 assault rifles with Russia to boost self-reliance in defence manufacturing. The annual summit – which has been held since 2000 – will be preceded by meetings between defence minister Rajnath Singh and his Russian counterpart Sergey Shoigu and external affairs minister S Jaishankar and his Russian counterpart Sergey Lavrov, and the inaugural 2+2 dialogue of the defence and foreign ministers. The ministers are expected to hold in-depth discussions of the key regional and international topics, including the situation in the Asia-Pacific region and developments in Afghanistan and Syria, as well as exchange views on interaction within the SCO and Russia, India and China (RIC), the Russian embassy has said. Several agreements to deepen cooperation in defence, trade, space, technology, energy and culture are expected to be inked during the summit, people familiar with the matter said. The two sides are expected to renew their military-technical cooperation arrangement for 2021-31. A key pact that could be signed is the Reciprocal Exchange of Logistics Agreement (RELOS), which will allow militaries of the two nations to access logistics and support facilities at each other’s bases. The joint statement to be issued after the summit is expected to reflect India’s concerns over cross-border terror and the fallout of the Taliban takeover of Afghanistan, the people said. Modi and Putin had decided in August to have close consultations on Afghanistan and the two sides are coordinating on common concerns, the people added. Days before the summit, the government approved the plan to manufacture AK-203 rifles at a factory at Amethi in Uttar Pradesh under a joint venture called Indo-Russian Rifles Private Limited that was formed by Advanced Weapons and Equipment India Limited and Munitions India Limited and Russia’s Rosoboronexport and Kalashnikov. The Cabinet Committee on Security (CCS) on Wednesday took up the ₹5,100-crore project. The AK-203 rifles will replace INSAS rifles inducted more than three decades ago. “The approval reflects the paradigm shift in defence acquisition from buy (global) to Make in India. The endeavour also reflects the deepening partnership between the two countries,” said an official.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/putin-arrives-today-defence-strategic-issues-on-the-agenda-101638728973836.html
