07-12-2021||India||SC rejects NIA plea against bail to Sudha Bharadwaj||The Supreme Court on Tuesday dismissed the National Investigation Agency (NIA)’s petition against the bail granted by the Bombay high court to activist Sudha Bharadwaj, an accused in the Bhima Koregaon violence case, as it affirmed that only a special court was competent to give more time to the agency to complete its investigation in the 2018 case. A bench, headed by justice Uday U Lalit, held that there was no infirmity in the December 1 high court order granting default bail to Bhardwaj on account of the legal lacuna in the investigating agency seeking time beyond 90 days in filing a charge sheet in the case. “The moot question is whether the court was a competent court to grant extension of time beyond the stipulated 90 days for filing of the charge sheet. If the competence was lacking, there was no valid extension of period and the lady had already moved for bail. So, she was entitled to statutory bail...we see no reason to interfere with the Bombay high court order,” observed the bench, which also comprised justices S Ravindra Bhat and Bela M Trivedi. The court warned NIA against making any extraordinary arguments in its appeal against Bhardwaj’s bail order that may cast a shadow of doubt over validity of proceedings in several other cases lodged under the Unlawful Activities (Prevention) Act (UAPA). “Your argument has to be in the context of whole universe of criminal case. You cannot make an argument in this case and leave it,” commented the bench, as additional solicitor general Aman Lekhi, representing NIA, sought to argue that states cannot constitute courts under the NIA Act until the central government approves transfer of investigations to them. Lekhi had made this argument to buttress the point that not only a special court but even a sessions court was entitled to extend the time for filing the charge sheet. NIA took over the probe only in January 2020 while the 90 days expired on January 25, 2019. “How many such cases have you transferred? That means state which have constituted courts under NIA are without jurisdiction. That cannot be...you will be rendering your law redundant. You cannot make this argument for only this case and leave it at that. You are unduly restricting Section 22 of NIA Act (on power of states to constitute special courts). Otherwise also, you are denuding the state of its normal powers,” said the bench, rejecting Lekhi’s submissions. Several activists, lawyers and authors are facing charges under UAPA for participating in an alleged Maoist conspiracy to trigger violence on January 1, 2018, in the Bhima Koregaon village of Maharashtra’s Pune district.On December 1, the high court allowed default bail to Bharadwaj, underlining that a Pune sessions judge, who granted police a 90-day extension on November 26, 2018, to file the charge sheet, did not have jurisdiction to do so, as only a special NIA court could hear UAPA cases. The high court pointed out that the Pune sessions court was not notified as a special court under the NIA Act. There was already a special NIA court in existence in Pune at the relevant time, it had noted. Bhardwaj, who had filed application for default bail when 90 days expired, was thus granted bail by the court, which asked the activist to approach a special NIA court on December 8 for bail conditions to be set. She is currently lodged at Byculla women’s prison. But the applications of eight co-accused facing terrorism and conspiracy charges for allegedly fomenting violence in Bhima Koregaon were rejected since they had not moved for bail immediately after the expiry of 90 days. NIA moved the top court soon after the high court allowed default bail to Bharadwaj, contending that the high court failed to appreciate that all sessions courts were competent to examine the matters relating to remand and extension of time in filing the charge sheet. On Monday, solicitor general Tushar Mehta mentioned the matter before Chief Justice of India NV Ramana, requesting an urgent listing. He informed the court that the matter required to be heard before Wednesday, when the bail order will take effect.When the matter came up before the bench led by justice Lalit on Tuesday, Lekhi pressed that jurisdiction of the court is irrelevant for the purpose of remand. “Competence of a court is relevant only for the purpose of trial. Remand is distinct from trial and enquiry,” argued Lekhi, citing Section 167 of the Criminal Procedure Code that talks about remand and extension of remand.However, referring to Section 167, the bench pointed out that while the provision lays down that an accused has to be produced before a nearest magistrate within 24 hours of his or her arrest, it mentions that a court has to apply its mind in giving extra time to an investigating agency to complete its probe and file the charge sheet by keeping the accused in custody. “If the word used in proviso to Section 167 is ‘court’ and ‘not magistrate’, there has to be a legislative intent behind it. Why should we now read a ‘court’ as a ‘magistrate’? There is a hierarchy of courts under the NIA Act. If there were no intervening steps and no special courts, you, perhaps arguably, have been correct. But if there are special courts, your argument doesn’t augur well,” the bench told Lekhi. “Also, imagine a situation where a magistrate, who is not competent to try a case, refuses to grant extension of time and sets free the accused, what will you do? This would create a very inconvenient situation...A court which otherwise isn’t competent to go into a matter will be making a ruling of such a nature. Will that not do a violence to the scheme of your Act that only a competent court should go into merits of a case? That’s why it has to be construed as a special court,” the bench observed.
07-12-2021||India||‘India leading the recovery in global aviation industry’: Scindia||Union civil aviation minister Jyotiraditya Scindia held a meeting of the Consultative Committee of his Ministry on Tuesday to discuss Flying Training Organisations (FTOs) in the country. Scindia said that the role of India’s FTOs has become critical as the fast-growing Indian aviation industry requires a growing supply of high-quality pilots. He said that India has been one of the fastest-growing aviation markets in the world and it is now leading the recovery in the global aviation industry.There are 34 Directorate General of Civil Aviation (DGCA) approved FTOs in the country. Out of these 34, one FTO (IGRUA at Amethi, UP) is under the administrative control of the central government, eight are under the state governments and 25 are owned by the private sectors, according to the release.“Given the fleet projection, India may require around 9,000 pilots over the next five years implying the requirement of almost 1800 pilots per annum,” Scindia said.Scindia said, “there is a need to expand the capacity of Indian FTOs with a view to reducing the dependence on foreign FTOs.”On the measures taken to bridge the gap, Scindia said a liberalized FTO policy has been announced by the Airports Authority of India (AAI) wherein the concept of airport royalty was abolished and the annual fee was rationalized significantly for new FTOs to be set up at AAI airports.“The AAI has issued award letters for nine flying schools to be established at five airports in early to mid-2022,” the minister said.“He said that with a close collaboration between the government, regulatory authorities, FTOs, aerospace companies and the airline industry, India has the potential to become a global flying training hub by 2030,” Scindia added.The minister said that India’s scheduled airlines have a fleet of 710 aircraft, which is projected to grow to over 1,000 aircraft in the next five years.“With a new liberalized helicopter policy announced in October, a significant increase in India’s helicopter fleet is expected over the next five years,” he added, stating that on November 21, around 3.93 lakh domestic passengers flew to various places, which was nearly 98.7% of the pre-Covid average. Besides, on November 20, 3810 MT of cargo, 103% of the pre-Covid level, was transported via domestic airlines, the minister said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/india-leading-the-recovery-in-global-aviation-industry-scindia-101638900556622.html
07-12-2021||India||Sialkot lynching: Pak min makes controversial remark, angers Lankan minister||Pakistan’s minister for defence Pervez Khattak on Monday made controversial remarks on the gruesome lynching of Priyantha Kumara Diyawadana in Sialkot, inviting widespread condemnation. The Sri Lankan public security minister Rear Admiral (Retd) Sarath Weerasekara demanded an apology from the Pakistan minister.“Pakistan's minister of defence must apologise to the people of Sri Lanka for those remarks,” Weerasekara was quoted as saying by news agency News1st TV.Khattak allegedly said that ‘murders can happen when people get emotional’ when he was asked that if the recent lifting of the ban on Tehreek-i-Labbaik Pakistan (TLP) could be connected to the incident. It was the hardline Islamist supporters of Tehreek-i-Labbaik Pakistan (TLP) who lynched Diyawadana, a factory manager, for opposing pasting of posters of TLP in factory premises, which contained Islamic verses and tossed them away and allegedly committing blasphemy, and burnt him in the middle of the street.The Imran Khan government earlier this year, owing to massive protests from the TLP, released more than 1,000 prisoners accused of terrorism who were part of the group. The TLP also caused damages to several cities in Pakistan when it demanded the expulsion of the French envoy following the release of Prophet Muhammad’s caricatures in France. It withdrew its demand after the prisoners were released.Pakistani media also criticised the defence minister. News agency Dawn in its editorial said that the remarks "create an impression that such killings are somehow a ‘normal’ part of growing up in a country where religion can be used to justify crime."“Mr Khattak’s remarks are deeply problematic. Such a statement from a federal minister should come as a shock, but unfortunately, we are accustomed to our public officials being in denial about the realities of extremism and violence in the country,” the editorial said.Sri Lanka’s prime minister Mahinda Rajapaksa earlier this week reiterated that he hopes Pakistan prime minister Imran Khan would avenge the death of the factory manager from Kandy who was living and working in Pakistan for more than a decade.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/sialkot-lynching-pak-min-makes-controversial-remark-angers-lankan-minister-101638898994539.html
07-12-2021||India||‘Nano, auto and cycle’: Devendra Fadnavis critiques Goa Cong, then a prophecy||PANAJI: Former Maharashtra chief minister and Goa BJP election in-charge Devendra Fadnavis said that Congress would soon be reduced to a ‘cycle party’ - a party with only two wheels, or MLAs - after the BJP receives the “blessings” of Pratapsingh Rane, one of the three remaining Congress lawmakers in the Goa assembly.Pratapsingh Rane, a 10-term legislator, is Goa’s longest serving MLA. He also holds a record for having served as chief minister of the state for a little less than 16 years across six terms between 1980 and 2007. He was the assembly speaker between 2007 and 2012.The 82-year-old veteran politician has also stayed firmly with the Congress for decades.Fadnavis suggested this could change. Pratapsingh Rane’s son Vishwajit Rane quit the Congres in 2017 after the party couldn’t form the government despite emerging as the largest party in the 40-member assembly with 17 legislators, resigned as MLA and won the bye-election on a BJP ticket. He was appointed health minister, a post he continues to hold in the Pramod Sawant government.The Congress’s strength in the assembly, meanwhile, continued to drop over the next four years and was down to four MLAs. On Tuesday,it came down further to three after Ravi Naik resigned from the assembly, the Congress to join the BJP.Former chief minister Fadnavis, who was present at the event to welcome Ravi Naik, did not miss the opportunity to take swipes at the Congress over its depleted strength in the assembly.Fadnavis said the Congress was reduced to a ‘Nano’ party with only four legislators left (after former chief minister Luizinho Faleiro) crossed over to the Trinamool Congress (TMC), and after Ravi Naik’s exit, has become an ‘autorickshaw’ party with only three legislators. He prophesied that this will also change.“Once we get Pratapsingh Rane’s blessings, it will be reduced to a cycle,” Fadnavis told the BJP event.Pratapsingh Rane hasn’t reacted to Fadnavis’ claim. It is unclear if the veteran politician will seeki a re-election, or if he will continue with the Congress closer to the polls.At the event, Fadnavis continued to take potshots at the Congres over its leadership crisis and referred to the group of 23 Congress leaders who, in August 2020, first wrote to Sonia Gandhi seeking organisational changes to take on the BJP.Some of the criticism from G23 has been that the Congress does not have a full-time president. Gandhi was named interim president in 2019.“The party which cannot find itself a leader - with Sonia saying Rahul should be the president, the G23 saying one among them should be the president, Priyanka Gandhi saying look in my direction as well and Rahul Gandhi a reluctant leader. In such a situation, leaders who have risen up from the grassroots have begun to desert the party,” Fadnavis said.To be sure, Ravi Naik’s exit from the Congress does not come as a surprise to the state unit which gave up on the politician in August 2020 after his sons ejected from the party.It is Naik’s second entry to the BJP, having once joined the party back in 2000. He was made a deputy chief minister to Manohar Parrikar after the latter engineered a split in the Goa Congress then led by chief minister Francisco Sardinha, who himself had led a faction of Congress MLAs that dethroned his predecessor chief minister Luizinho Faleiro.Naik, a veteran politician also spent a little over two years as Goa chief minister across two terms whilst also having served as a member of parliament for a brief term between 1998 and 1999 representing North Goa.Naik is the third MLA in Goa in recent weeks to resign following Luizinho Faleiro who joined the TMC and Jayesh Salgaocar of the Goa Forward who also joined the BJP.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/nano-auto-and-cycle-devendra-fadnavis-critiques-goa-cong-then-a-prophecy-101638897552385.html
07-12-2021||India||Nagaland firing: Congress team to meet victims' kin on Saturday, TMC seeks Shah's appointment||A delegation of the Congress will visit Nagaland on Saturday to meet families of civilians who were killed in a botched-up operation by the armed forces in Mon district last Saturday.The information was shared by Congress MP Gaurav Gogoi on Tuesday. It was earlier informed that Congress interim president had formed a four-member team to visit Nagaland and submit a report within a week on the civilian deaths. Besides Gogoi, the team would comprise senior party leaders Jitendra Singh, Ajoy Kumar and Anto Antony.Meanwhile, the Mamata Banerjee-led Trinamool Congress party will meet Union home minister Amit Shah in Parliament on Wednesday to hand over a memorandum seeking compensation for the families of the victims. The TMC has also asked the Centre to come clean with its position on the Armed Forces Special Powers Act (AFSPA).Earlier in the day, the Nagaland cabinet, headed by Neiphiu Rio, decided to demand the repeal of the controversial Act that gives the armed forces to operate with impunity.The first incident in which six civilians were killed, occurred when army personnel mistook coal mine workers returning home in a pick-up van on Saturday evening, to be insurgents belonging to the Yung Aung faction of the banned outfit NSCN(K). Also read | Armed forces' excesses don't go well in democracy like India: Neiphiu RioWhen workers failed to reach their homes, local villagers went in search of them and surrounded the army vehicles. In the ensuing melee, a soldier was killed and army vehicles set ablaze. Soldiers said they fired in self-defence that led to death of another seven civilians. Rioting spilled over into Sunday afternoon when angry mobs vandalised the offices of the Konyak Union and an Assam Rifles camp in the area, setting fire to parts of the camp, police had said. At least one more person was killed, as security forces fired back at attackers. The Nagaland Police filed a suo moto FIR against the 21st Para Special Force of the Army. The army has ordered a court of inquiry headed by an officer of major general rank into the Nagaland incident. Expressing regret over the Nagaland firing incident, Shah on Monday said a probe by an SIT will be completed within a month and asserted that all agencies must ensure such happenings do not recur while taking action against insurgents.(With inputs from agencies)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/nagaland-cong-team-to-meet-victims-kin-on-saturday-tmc-seeks-shah-s-time-101638895349132.html
07-12-2021||India||‘Highest cases of infiltration reported along Bangladesh border’: MHA||The government told the Parliament on Tuesday that the highest cases of cross-border infiltration to India has been reported along the India- Bangladesh border.The Ministry of Home Affairs said this in response to a question posed by Lok Janshakti Party MP Chirag Paswan in the Lok Sabha. Paswan sought to know whether the number of cases of infiltration has come to light in bordering areas during the last three years.In a written reply, Minister of State in the Ministry of Home Affairs, Nisith Pramanik said, “128 infiltrations reported along Pakistan border, 1787 along Bangladesh border, 25 along Nepal border, 133 along Myanmar border while nil at China and Bhutan border.”He added that these cases are dealt with by the Border Guarding Forces in close coordination with other government agencies including state governments, as per the extant laws.During the Monsoon session in August, Minister of State for Defence Ajay Bhatt had told the parliament recently that there were 441 infiltration attempts made along the India-Bangladesh border in the first six months of 2021. He said that 740 infiltrators from Bangladesh were apprehended and one was killed by the security forces.India and Bangladesh share a 4,095 kilometre-long border of which around 1,116 kilometres is riverine. Bangladesh is surrounded by five Indian states – West Bengal, Assam, Meghalaya, Mizoram, and Tripura – on three sides.Cross-border crimes and infiltration from Bangladesh have prompted the Indian government to adopt a multi-pronged approach to checking illegal activities while increasing surveillance along the border.When asked about whether the government proposes to constitute a special monitoring team to track and check infiltration in view of a steep rise in population ratio particularly in border areas, Pramanik said the government agencies including the Border Guarding Forces are monitoring and taking steps to check and curb infiltration.The MoS further said that the government has adopted a multi-pronged approach to contain cross-border infiltration including deployment of the Border Guarding Forces along the International Borders, erection of border fencing and floodlighting, effective domination of the borders by patrolling among other things.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/highest-cases-of-infiltration-reported-along-bangladesh-border-mha-101638894853120.html
07-12-2021||India||Will make every effort to unite all non-BJP parties: NCP||The NCP on Tuesday said it will make every effort to form a broad-based alliance of parties, including the Congress, to take on the BJP in 2024, but distanced itself from Trinamool Congress supremo Mamata Banerjee's barbs at the grand old party.Briefing reporters on the deliberations of the NCP working committee, party spokesperson Nawab Malik said people of the country were "fed up" with the BJP government at the Centre and were yearning for change in 2024."We will make every effort to unite all non-BJP parties, including the Congress, to forge an alternative to the BJP. People want change in 2024. If an alternative alliance is formed, there will be change in 2024," Malik said, but remained silent on the leadership of such an alliance.He said NCP chief Sharad Pawar has been stressing on the need to unite all opposition parties to form a broad-based alternative to the BJP."The UPA does not have all parties. Non-UPA parties have more MPs than the UPA. If those people are not brought together, forming a large alternative will be difficult," Malik said.The NCP's remarks on an alternative to the BJP came on a day Shiv Sena leader Sanjay Raut met former Congress president Rahul Gandhi, days after Banerjee had declared that the UPA was dead. She had also taken potshots at Gandhi, virtually questioning the Congress's leadership of the opposition grouping.On the upcoming assembly elections in five states, Malik said the NCP was in talks with the Congress for a pre-poll alliance in Goa and Uttarakhand, while communication channels were open with Samajwadi Party chief Akhilesh Yadav for a possible tie up in Uttar Pradesh.The NCP also adopted resolutions extending support the agitating farmers in their fight for a legal cover to the minimum support price for farm produce and compensation to the next of kin of farmers who died during the year-long protests.The party decided to launch nationwide protests on the issue of price rise, particularly the high prices of petroleum products.Malik said the internal elections of the NCP will be held next year which will be followed by a national convention in Delhi on June 9 and 10.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/will-make-every-effort-to-unite-all-non-bjp-parties-ncp-101638892833621.html
07-12-2021||India||In Shringla’s Bangladesh visit, focus on bilateral cooperation, boosting connectivity||Cooperation in areas such as connectivity, green energy, e-commerce and water-sharing figured in foreign secretary Harsh Shringla’s meetings with Bangladeshi officials in Dhaka on Tuesday.Shringla, who is on a two-day trip to Bangladesh, will review wide-ranging bilateral cooperation and prepare the grounds for President Ram Nath Kovind’s state visit during December 15-17. Kovind will join the 50th Victory Day celebrations on December 16.He held talks with his Bangladeshi counterpart Masud Bin Momen and met foreign minister AK Abdul Momen on Tuesday. Shringla will call on Prime Minister Sheikh Hasina on Wednesday. Following his meeting with Shringla, the Bangladeshi foreign minister told reporters in Dhaka they had discussed a number of “pending issues” between Bangladesh and India, including water-sharing and deaths in incidents along the border.The foreign minister said Dhaka had urged New Delhi to expedite the process of holding the next meeting of the joint river commission to resolve water-sharing issues. “They gave us a formula to check unwanted incidents on the frontier,” he said.He added India isn’t expected to make any move that could create cracks in the ongoing “golden chapter” of bilateral relations. “They also don’t want to see any incident that could make any kind of (crack) in Bangladesh-India relations,” he told the media. “We have to solidify this relation…it is needed for the welfare of the people of both countries,” he added.Talking to the media after his meeting with the Bangladeshi foreign secretary, Shringla said there is “no major difference in opinions” on pending issues between India and Bangladesh. “We discussed the issues but we found no major differences…There are only areas to take forward. We are looking forward to how we can work on (resolving the issues),” he was quoted as saying by BSS news agency.Masud Bin Momen said he and Shringla had a fruitful discussion on all pending issues during their meeting that lasted almost an hour, but didn’t give any details. “We also discussed how we can make our border peaceful,” he said. Among the issues that figured in the discussions were connectivity, green energy, green technology and e-commerce, Masud Bin Momen said. Cooperation between the two sides for the Covid-19 response will continue as “Bangladesh cannot be safe if India is not safe and India cannot be safe if Bangladesh is not safe”, he added.Shringla said connectivity projects between the two sides are going on well and five out of six historic rail connections have been restored and the sixth one will be completed this year. He said India wants to promote eco-friendly railway and water connectivity with Bangladesh. He added that the Indian prime minister and the president had made Bangladesh the destination for their first foreign visit following the pandemic, and this shows the bilateral relationship is passing through a “golden chapter”. Shringla also said New Delhi and Dhaka are working to arrange Prime Minister Hasina’s visit to India at the earliest. The Indian foreign secretary arrived in Dhaka a day after both countries celebrated “Maitri Diwas” or friendship day in 18 cities worldwide, including Dhaka and New Delhi to commemorate their close ties over the past 50 years. The external affairs ministry describes India’s ties with Bangladesh as one of the strongest pillars of its “Neighbourhood First” policy.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/in-shringla-s-bangladesh-visit-focus-on-bilateral-cooperation-boosting-connectivity-101638892032410.html
07-12-2021||India||‘Parents must get vaccinated’: Doctors' solution to protecting kids from Omicron||With cases of Omicron variant rising rapidly in India, doctors have urged parents to follow Covid-appropriate behaviour, and get inoculated with vaccine shots in order to protect their children from getting infected.Associate director of Delhi's Rainbow Children's Hospital, Dr Nitin Verma said that if the Omicron Covid-19 variant spreads, children will be at high risk. “That's not to say that they will get severe disease, but they will certainly be at enhanced risk for developing Covid-19,” he told news agency ANI.Several countries in the world, with a majority in Europe, including the United Kingdom, Germany and France, among others, have begun vaccinating children in the age group of 12 to 15. Spain on Tuesday gave its nod to vaccinating five to 11-year-olds.  India, which is second in the world in the cumulative tally of Covid-19 cases after the United States, has approved emergency-use authorisation to two vaccines for children - Zydus Cadila's ZyCoV-D and Bharat Biotech’s Covaxin, but is yet to start the vaccination processIndia's indigenous Covid-19 vaccine ‘Covaxin’ that received the WHO approval for emergency-use listing (EUL) on November 3, was given the green signal to be administered in children aged two to 18 by the expert panel of Drugs Controller General of India (DCGI). However, the DCGI is yet to approve Covaxin for children with the Centre informing at the ongoing winter session of Parliament recently that additional data has been sought from manufacturer Bharat Biotech and the expert panel's recommendation is being examined.Also Read | Additional data sought, expert panel’s recommendations being examined: Centre on Covaxin for kidsDr Verma noted that as soon as Covid-19 vaccine for kids is rolled out in India, as many children as possible should be vaccinated. “So, if all the adults around them are vaccinated and practice Covid-appropriate behaviour, then we can protect the children,” he was quoted as saying by ANI.Besides getting jabbed and following protocols, Dr Verma said that people must conduct RT-PCR tests as soon as they develop symptoms of coronavirus.Echoing Dr Verma, senior paediatrician at Delhi's Sir Gangaram Hospital, Dr Dhiren Gupta told ANI that some “alarming reports” from South Africa - where Omicron variant was first discovered, reveal hospitalisation rates are witnessing a surge among kids aged below five. “Only vaccination and Covid-appropriate behaviour can prevent such infections from entering our homes,” Dr Gupta added.He pointed out that the first two Omicron cases in India, reported in Karnataka, show that they didn't spread the infection to their secondary contacts. The doctor stressed on the possibility that immunised (vaccinated) host infectivity “is less due to less viral load.”Dr Gupta highlighted that strict measures must be adopted to ensure that no adult in India escapes the vaccination coverage. These include not permitting anyone to leave their home unless vaccinated against Covid-19. “Unvaccinated human should be considered as a vehicle which is polluting roads and is injurious to other humans,” the doctor was quoted as saying by ANI.Dr Gupta said that once safety of Covid-19 vaccine jabs for children is “assured”, pediatric vaccination must be initiated in the country.India has so far reported as many as 23 Omicron cases, with Maharashtra accounting for 10 of them. On Monday, two people were found to be infected with the variant in Mumbai. A 37-year-old who arrived from South Africa and his 36-year-old friend who reached the Maharashtra capital from the US. Authorities told Hindustan Times that both the infected persons showed no symptoms and were vaccinated against coronavirus with Pfizer-BioNtech's vaccine.Other than Maharashtra, Omicron cases have been detected in Gujarat, Rajasthan, Delhi and Karnataka.Starting December 1, India revised its travel guidelines for all international arrivals. These include mandatory RT-PCR tests for all international flyers, and an addition of seven-day quarantine for those coming from at-risk countries.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/parents-must-get-vaccinated-doctors-solution-to-protecting-kids-from-omicron-101638886629149.html
07-12-2021||India||News updates from HT: 12 foreign returnees untraceable in Thane amid Omicron spread and all the latest news||Here are today’s top news, analysis, and opinion. Know all about the latest news and other news updates from Hindustan Times.Omicron crisis: 12 foreign returnees untraceable in Thane's Kalyan Dombivli areaOfficials of Thane district’s Kalyan Dombivli Municipal Corporation (KDMC) said at least 12 people of the 318 passengers who returned from abroad are missing. Read more hereRLD, SP alliance to kick out politics of hatred in UP, says Jayant ChaudharyThe RLD leader criticised the Uttar Pradesh government over the deaths of farmers and also highlighted the recent case of paper leak and exams being cancelled owing to that. Read more here. 'It'd be appropriate that he surpasses Anil Kumble': Legendary India pacer says Ashwin 'has created a league of his own'The legend of R Ashwin continues to grow with the off-spinner winning his ninth Player of the Series trophy as India beat New Zealand to clinch the series. Read more here. Gurdas Maan, a guest at Vicky Kaushal and Katrina Kaif’s wedding, sings song for them. Watch videoGurdas Maan, a guest at Vicky Kaushal and Katrina Kaif’s wedding, sings song for them. Watch videoIndore eatery serves ice cream rolls with chillies and Nutella, video goes viralThis YouTube video shows a unique type of ice-cream rolls being prepared in Indore with chillies and Nutella. Read more here. ‘Ghar mein ghus ke…’: Amit Shah on why India is in the league of U.S, Israel in response to attacks||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/news-updates-from-ht-12-foreign-returnees-untraceable-in-thane-amid-omicron-spread-and-all-the-latest-news-101638889813617.html
07-12-2021||India||UN resident coordinator in India presents credentials||The new UN resident coordinator in New Delhi, Shombi Sharp, thanked the Indian government for its lasting commitment to multilateralism while presenting his credentials to minister of state for external affairs V Muraleedharan.Sharp assumed office in India on November 15. The UN resident coordinator is the highest-ranking representative of the UN development system and is the designated representative of the UN secretary-general.He reaffirmed the UN’s lasting commitment to India’s national development priorities and the global Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs) and thanked the government for its commitment to multilateralism while presenting his credentials on Monday. Sharp also lauded India’s leadership in implementing and localising the SDGs and for sharing valuable lessons learned on best practices with other countries.Muraleedharan welcomed Sharp and said, “India is ready to share its experience and expertise in accelerating inclusive and sustainable development through the UN-India partnership. We look forward to working closely with the UN system in India.”Sharp commended India on behalf of the UN country team for its public health measures in response to the Covid-19 pandemic, ambitious climate goals and commitment to ensuring that development gains reach the last mile. “Having already administered nearly one-and-a-half billion doses of Covid vaccines is an impressive milestone,” he said. “We believe that if India achieves the SDGs, the world will achieve the SDGs, and towards that, we stand firmly with India and all its people.” Sharp said his team will help lead preparations for the next UN Sustainable Development Cooperation Framework, outlining the collective UN team offer of partnership. The UN presence in India consists of 26 agencies, funds and specialised programmes.Sharp, a US national, has more than 25 years of experience in sustainable development. Before India, he served as the UN resident coordinator in Armenia, following several senior positions at the United Nations Development Programme (UNDP), and was also an assistant resident representative in the Russian Federation.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/un-resident-coordinator-in-india-presents-credentials-101638888732002.html
07-12-2021||India||RLD, SP alliance to kick out politics of hatred in UP, says Jayant Chaudhary||Rashtriya Lok Dal (RLD) president Jayant Chaudhary on Tuesday announced that he will be aligning with the Samajwadi Party (SP) in the upcoming Uttar Pradesh assembly elections. Hinting earlier on several occasions that his outfit would ally with the SP, Chaudhary said if the coalition is elected to power it would construct a memorial for the farmers who died during protests against the contentious agricultural laws.The RLD leader criticised the Uttar Pradesh government over the deaths of farmers and also highlighted the recent case of paper leak and exams being cancelled owing to that. He accused the Yogi Adityanath-led government of forcing young people to migrate to other states for better jobs. “The first work our double-engine government will do is to construct a memorial for martyr farmers, who died during farmers' protest here in the land of Chowdhury Charan Singh,” Chaudhary was quoted as saying by news agency PTI.Chaudhary also accused the BJP of spreading hate. “The BJP talks of ‘hatred’ and ‘our Babaji’ starts with Aurangzeb and ends with the Kairana exodus,” Chaudhary said in an apparent reference to the Uttar Pradesh chief minister Yogi Adityanath.He also urged the people of the state to relieve the Uttar Pradesh chief minister of his responsibilities. “Babaji becomes angry very fast. You have never seen him smiling. He smiles only when he is with calves. I ask you to relieve him so that he can play with his calves 24 hours. He cannot handle government files,” Chaudhary remarked. He also lauded the farmers for their fight that led to the repeal of the three controversial laws.The SP is working towards presenting itself as a strong alternative to the BJP government in Uttar Pradesh. While the Congress and the BSP continue to form alliances with smaller partners, the SP is working with the RLD and the Suheldev Bharatiya Samaj Party in a bid to hurt BJP’s electoral chances in Uttar Pradesh.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/rld-sp-alliance-to-kick-out-politics-of-hatred-in-up-says-jayant-chaudhary-101638880665834.html
07-12-2021||India||Rahul asks Centre to compensate kin of farmers who died in protests||Congress leader Rahul Gandhi on Tuesday asked the government to give compensation and employment to the next of kin of farmers who died during the year-long farmers’ protests. Rahul raised the issue earlier, too, and criticised the Modi government for not keeping data on deaths of farmers.“Around 700 farmers died in farmers’ agitation. The prime minister apologised to the farmers and accepted his mistake. On November 30, the agriculture minister was asked a question: ‘How many farmers died in the agitation? The agriculture minister said he had no data,” Rahul said.He cited examples of the Punjab government and claimed that it paid compensation of ₹5 lakh each to more than 400 farmers and gave jobs to 152 farmers. He earlier offered the government his list which he claimed contained names of the deceased farmers.“I want the farmers to be given their rights. The prime minister has already apologised. Now, farmers should get compensation and jobs,” the Wayanad MP said.Meanwhile in a letter to the Samyukt Kisan Morcha, the government said that it will withdraw all cases against the farmers barring those of rape and murder. The farmers’ body will hold another meeting tomorrow to decide the course of the protests.“The government proposed that they will agree to our demands and that we should end the protest but the proposal is unclear. We have our apprehensions which will be discussed tomorrow at 2pm. Our movement is not going anywhere, will be here,” Tikait was quoted as saying by news agency ANI.Farmer leaders told HT that the Centre agreed to take farmers and stubble burning out of the purview of NCR anti-pollution law and to withdraw the Electricity Amendment Bill. People familiar with the developments told HT that the farmers are likely to take out a victory march before returning to their homes.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/rahul-asks-centre-to-compensate-kin-of-farmers-who-died-in-protests-101638887667897.html
07-12-2021||India||Sri Lankan mission in Delhi sends long-serving Indian staffers on island tour||NEW DELHI: A group of Indian employees working at the Sri Lankan high commission in New Delhi for more than 30 years have been sent on a tour of the island nation as a gesture of appreciation for their dedicated services, the high commission said in a statement on Tuesday.The group, including five long-serving members of staff and their spouses, left for Sri Lanka on Tuesday for a six-day tour. They will visit Colombo, Kandy, Nuwara Eliya and Bentota.While in Colombo, they will visit the foreign ministry and the presidential secretariat. They will also pay homage at the Temple of the Sacred Tooth Relic in Kandy.The group comprises senior principal secretary Deepak Nathani, senior executive officer Renu Sharma, receptionist KC Sharma, office assistant Virendar Kumar, and senior security officer Bijendra Pal, the high commission statement said.The idea of offering the tour to long-serving staff members was mooted by the new high commissioner, Milinda Moragoda. He handed over air tickets and hotel reservation documents to the staff members at the Maha Bodhi temple in New Delhi last Saturday, as Buddhist priests invoked blessings on the group before their departure. Three Sri Lankan private companies have sponsored the group’s visit.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/sri-lankan-mission-in-delhi-sends-long-serving-indian-staffers-on-island-tour-101638884590265.html
07-12-2021||India||India successfully test-fires Vertically Launched Short Range Surface to Air Missile||India successfully test-fired the Vertically Launched Short Range Surface to Air Missile (VL-SRSAM) from Integrated Test Range (ITR) in Chandipur off the coast of Odisha, the ministry of defence on Tuesday.According to Defence Research and Development Organisation officials (DRDO), the air defence system can engage targets at around 15km. The VL-SRSAM, indigenously designed and developed by DRDO for the Indian Navy, is meant for neutralising various aerial threats at close ranges, including sea-skimming targets, the DRDO has said.“The launch was conducted from a vertical launcher against an electronic target at a very low altitude. The flight path of the vehicle along with health parameters were monitored using a number of tracking instruments deployed by ITR, Chandipur. All sub-systems performed as per expectation,” the defence ministry said in a release.RM Shri @rajnathsingh has congratulated @DRDO_India , @indiannavy and the industry for the successful flight test of Vertical Launch Short Range Surface to Air Missile. He said that this system would further enhance defence capability of Indian Naval Ships against aerial threats. pic.twitter.com/chnlpP3ct7The launch of the system was conducted to validate the integrated operation of all weapon system components, “including the vertical launcher unit with controller, canisterised flight vehicle, weapon control system etc. required for future launches of the missile from Indian Naval Ships”.The test launch was monitored by senior officials of the DRDO and Indian Navy. The first trial was conducted on February 22 this year and this was a confirmatory trial to prove the consistent performance of the configuration and integrated operation.Defence minister Rajnath Singh congratulated the DRDO, the Indian Navy and industry for the successful flight test and said the system will further enhance defence capability of Indian naval ships against aerial threats. The release added the department of defence research and development’s secretary and DRDO chairperson, Dr G Satheesh Reddy, also complemented the teams involved in the successful flight test.They said this has paved the way for integration of weapon system onboard Indian naval ships, according to the release.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/india-successfully-test-fires-vl-srsam-off-odisha-coast-101638882187256.html
07-12-2021||India||'Gandhi or Godse's India?' Mehbooba Mufti says no lawyer to defend arrested J&K students||People's Democratic Party (PDP) president Mehbooba Mufti on Tuesday said she feels the country is changing from what Mahatma Gandhi had envisioned to one that his assassin Nathuram Godse may have aspired to.Citing the change in reaction to cheering for and celebration of India-Pakistan matches over the years, the former Jammu & Kashmir chief minister slammed the arrest of three Kashmiri students in an engineering college in Agra for allegedly cheering for Pakistan following India’s defeat during a group stage match between the two teams in the recently concluded T20 World Cup.Mufti, who addressed an interactive session organised by the Indian Women Press Corps (IWPC) in Delhi, recalled a cricket match between the two teams when Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) co-founder Atal Bihari Vajpayee was the country’s Prime Minister.“I remember a cricket match between India and Pakistan during Vajpayee ji's era, where citizens of Pakistan were cheering for India and citizens of India were cheering for Pakistan,” she said, adding that former Pakistan President Pervez Musharraf had also once praised the then Indian cricket team captain Mahendra Singh Dhoni.Also Read | Mufti demands release of J-K students arrested for celebrating Pak cricket winHowever, she said, today, there was not a single lawyer ready to defend the three Kashmiri students who were arrested in Agra recently. “So, it feels like Gandhi's India is turning into Godse's India,” Mufti was quoted as saying by news agency ANI.Godse had assassinated Gandhi on January 30,1948.The Kashmiri students were arrested in the UP town following a complaint lodged by a BJP Yuva Morcha leader, Gaurav Rajawat. As per the first information report (FIR) filed, the students used anti-national slogans like “Bharat desh ke tukde honge” and applauded Pakistan by raising slogans such as “Pakistan Zindabad”.Also Read | Mehbooba stages dharna at Delhi’s Jantar Mantar, says Kashmir ‘in pain’Soon after the incident, Mufti had written to Prime Minister Narendra Modi, calling for his intervention in the matter.In the letter, the PDP chief said that a cricket match between the two countries was “solely a source of entertainment” for Kashmiri people but resulted in the youngsters getting booked for “simply choosing to cheer the winning side”.Mufti had written that patriotism and a sense of loyalty need to be nurtured with compassion and cannot be forced by “wielding the baton or by the barrel of a gun”.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/gandhi-or-godse-s-india-mufti-says-no-lawyer-to-defend-kashmiri-students-101638871144230.html
07-12-2021||India||‘Notices sent to wrong address’: Gauhati HC cancels foreigners’ tribunal order||SILCHAR: The Gauhati High Court has cancelled an ex-parte order by a foreigners’ tribunal declaring a Silchar resident as a foreigner after finding that the tribunal had been sending its notices to the wrong address.Jantu Das approached the high court after the tribunal in 2017 notified him as a foreigner, ruling that he was given several opportunities over a 10-year-period to produce evidence to establish his citizenship, but didn’t appear before the tribunal. Das told the high court that the tribunal did not amend its verdict when he pointed out the error.The two-judge bench comprising justices Kotiswar Singh and Malashri Nandi on Monday set aside the tribunal’s ex-parte order, holding that it was illegal.“After going through with the details of documents submitted, we have learnt that the petitioner never received any notice from the concerned foreigners’ tribunal and as such, the ex-parte order is illegal and liable to be set aside,” the bench said.The high court also noted Jantu Das’ assertion that he has “sufficient” documentary evidence to establish his Indian citizenship.Das told the high court that the notices were being sent to another person named Sukesh Das, whose father’s name was the same as his father. The high court noted that there was no evidence before the court to indicate that Sukesh Das was related to Jantu Das. The high court ordered the foreigners’ tribunal in Assam’s Cachar district to hear the case afresh from January 1, 2022. “We are of the opinion that the petitioner may be afforded another opportunity to appear before the learned foreigner’s tribunal. Accordingly, for the reasons discussed above, the present petition is allowed by setting aside the impugned ex-parte order dated 18.09.2017 passed by the learned member, Foreigners Tribunal-4th Cachar at Silchar,” the high court said.There have been several instances where the foreigners’ tribunal orders have been cancelled or paused by the high court, often on grounds that the tribunal did not give sufficient opportunity before delivering its verdict.Like Sukdev Ree of Assam’s Hailakandi district, a 65-year-old tea garden worker, who was declared a foreigner in 2016 and served imprisonment for three years. The Gauhati high court found the tribunal’s order incomplete and told the Hailakandi foreigner’s tribunal (FT) to hear the case again on December 3, 2021. Ree died a fortnight before he was scheduled to appear before the tribunal on the high court’s orders to establish his citizenship.Social activist Kamal Chakraborty, who accompanied Ree’s family to court on December 3 to continue the legal battle, said, “Isn’t it unfair that court declares Indian citizens as foreigners when they miss a date or fail to appear. Effort should be made to ensure the tribunal hears both sides before deciding.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/notices-sent-to-wrong-address-gauhati-hc-cancels-foreigners-tribunal-order-101638881410030.html
07-12-2021||India||Forces' excesses don't go well in democracy like India: Neiphiu Rio on AFSPA repeal plea||Nagaland chief minister Neiphiu Rio on Tuesday said the excesses committed by the armed forces through the Armed Forces (Special Powers) Act, which allows that latter to act with impunity, do not go well with people of a democratic country like India.Rio’s cabinet decided to write to the Union government demanding immediate repeal of the AFSPA from Nagaland in the aftermath of the killing 14 civilians in the northeastern state during a botched-up anti-insurgency operation of the armed forces.Rio said it was decided at the cabinet meeting that the Centre would be requested to repeal the controversial law from the entire northeast region and not just Nagaland.Through AFSPA, the excessive made by Armed Forces doesn't go well with the people in a democratic country like India ...It's a good thing that they (Centre) admitted to having made the wrong judgement through the tip... Hoping that justice is done: Nagaland CM Neiphiu Rio pic.twitter.com/IaEr4heGSCAn elite military commando unit shot dead six coal miners returning to their homes in Mon district of Nagaland on Saturday, believing they were targeting insurgents. Another eight people were killed by the troops when they were confronted by a furious crowd, with a soldier also killed and three army vehicles set ablaze.A senior minister in Rio’s cabinet said that besides the 14 deaths, two seriously injured are undergoing treatment in neighbouring Assam, and six are being treated in Dimapur.Rio said, ““Through AFSPA, the excesses made by the armed forces do not go well with the people in a democratic country like India… It is a good thing that they (Centre) admitted to having made the wrong judgement through the tip... Hoping that justice is done.”“People have spoken very strongly about the unfortunate incident. At today's state cabinet meeting, we decided to ask GoI to repeal AFSPA not only in Nagaland but Northeast (altogether),” the chief minister was further quoted as saying.Earlier in the day, the state cabinet called off the ongoing Hornbill Festival in protest against the killings. The 10-day festival, the state's largest tourism extravaganza held at Naga Heritage Village in Kisama near the state capital, was scheduled to end on December 10.(With agency inputs)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/armed-forces-excesses-don-t-go-well-in-a-democratic-like-india-neiphiu-rio-101638877475039.html
07-12-2021||India||Illegal drugs worth ₹500 crore seized after major operation in Manipur||In a major drug bust, a team comprising Manipur policemen and Assam Rifles personnel have seized illegal drugs estimated to be worth ₹500 crore from a warehouse at Moreh,a border town in Manipur’s Tengnoupal district.Confirming the drug bust on Tuesday, Manipur chief minister N Biren Singh said, “Marvellous achievement by Tengnoupal Police and 43 Assam Rifles on seizing a huge quantity of illegal narcotic substances, worth ₹500 crore, from a warehouse in Moreh.”The Manipur CM said a Myanmar national has been arrested, while a huge number of soap cases containing suspected heroin and packets of suspected crystal meth were seized following the raid. “It is one of the biggest seizures of drugs under the ‘war on drugs’ initiative of the state government,” Biren Singh said.Police later said the raid was carried out on the basis of “specific intelligence inputs”, according to which some locations in Moreh town near the international border were being used to store, package and distribute banned drugs that were being smuggled into India from Myanmar.The person who was arrested in the raid was handed over to the officer-in-charge of Moreh police station. Further investigation is underway.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/illegal-drugs-worth-500-crore-seized-after-major-operation-in-manipur-101638877268827.html
07-12-2021||India||News updates from HT: Omicron can derail domestic aviation recovery, says ICRA and all the latest news||Here are today’s top news, analysis, and opinion at 5pm. Know all about the latest news and other news updates from Hindustan Times.Omicron threat has potential to derail domestic aviation recovery: ICRAThe threat posed by the Omicron variant of the coronavirus has the potential to derail the recovery of the domestic aviation sector if it sparks a fresh round of curbs, research conducted by ICRA said. Read moreBengaluru doctor recovers from Omicron, tests Covid positive again: ReportThe Bengaluru doctor, who has no history of foreign travel, was among the first two people to be detected with Omicron variant of the coronavirus in the country. Read more'What an outstanding bowler. He will be India's No. 1 in time to come': Harbhajan's big praise for 27-year-old cricketerVeteran spinner Harbhajan Singh has weighed in on the likely bowling combination India will go ahead with for the Test series against South Africa starting December. Read morePreity Zinta cuddles one of her twins as she shares first pic: ‘Burp cloths, diapers, babies, loving it all’. See postActor Preity Zinta has given her fans the first glimpse of one of her babies. Preity and her husband Gene Goodenough recently became parents to twins--son Jai and daughter Gia-- through surrogacy. Read more'Hope you got' Mira Rajput's leg day memo?Mira Rajput's memo for Tuesday is short and simple – she believes in keeping Tuesdays as her leg day. Mira is an absolute fitness enthusiast and she swears by yoga and high intensity workouts. Read moreHonda Activa 125 Premium Edition launched in India. Check price, variants hereThe new scooter has been introduced in two dual tone colour options - Pearl Amazing White with Matte Magnificent Copper Metallic and Matte Steel Black Metallic with Matte Earl Silver Metallic. Read more||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/news-updates-from-ht-omicron-can-derail-domestic-aviation-recovery-says-icra-and-all-the-latest-news-101638873305480.html
07-12-2021||India||Keeping up with UP | Priyanka, Mayawati and their emotive battle cries||When Congress national general secretary Priyanka Gandhi Vadra angrily told the police holding her up outside Lakhimpur Kheri on October 3, : “show me the warrant — main ladki hoon, lad sakti hoon,” not many in the party imagined it would soon become the catchphrase for the upcoming 2022 assembly elections in Uttar Pradesh.
07-12-2021||India||‘Attend parliament regularly or else change may happen’: PM Modi tells BJP MPs||Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Tuesday criticised his own party members for 'poor attendance' in the ongoing Winter Session, people familiar with the development told news agency ANI. The Prime Minister told Bharatiya Janata Party members to remain regular in their respective Houses. He also said that if MPs do not become regular, then there may be ‘changes’.The Prime Minister also said that it does not feel good to talk to fellow parliamentarians in a manner which would seem that they are children. “Modi stated that MPs have been told several times about attending Parliament regularly. He added that it doesn't look nice to talk to the MPs as if they are children. He pointed out that if they do not become regular in the House, there may be changes in due course,” people mentioned above told news agency ANI.Modi made these remarks while addressing the BJP MPs at a parliamentary meeting on Tuesday morning. This is the first meeting during the ongoing Winter Session of Parliament.The BJP parliamentary meeting was held at the Dr Ambedkar International Centre in New Delhi. Union ministers including Amit Shah, Piyush Goyal, S Jaishankar, Pralhad Joshi and Jitendra Singh were present at the meeting along with BJP national president Jagat Prakash Nadda.The Rajya Sabha and the Lok Sabha saw repeated adjourned sessions on Tuesday. The Rajya Sabha was adjourned till Wednesday following uproar from the Opposition demanding the revocation of the suspension of 12 MPs who were barred from attending the rest of the session for alleged misconduct during the final day of the Monsoon Session earlier this year.The Opposition MPs also discussed the issue of repeated adjourned sessions with the parliamentary minister, the Lok Sabha and the Rajya Sabha chairs.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/attend-parliament-regularly-or-else-change-may-happen-pm-modi-tells-bjp-mps-101638873987235.html
07-12-2021||India||Nagaland civilian killings: Hornbill Festival cut short by 3 days||The Nagaland government on Tuesday announced that it was cutting short the 22nd Hornbill Festival by three days in a show of solidarity with the Konyak community that lost 14 young men, killed in Mon district in two incidents of firing on December 4 and 5 by the security forces who had mistaken them as militants.“The state cabinet has decided that all activities of the ongoing Hornbill Festival should be ceased in view of the mourning announced for the deceased in the firing incidents in Mon district and the demand by various civil societies not to hold the activities,” government spokesperson Neiba Kronu announced at a press conference on Tuesday.The Hornbill Festival, an annual ten-day cultural and tourism extravaganza in which different Naga tribes showcase their rich traditions, began on December 1.Following the killings, six Eastern Nagaland tribes including Konyak, Khiamniungan, Phom, Sangtam, Yimkhiung and Chang withdrew from the festival. Nagaland groups and political parties are now seeking a repeal of the Armed Forces Special Powers Act (AFSPA), which they describe as the root of the problem as it shields the armed forces from prosecution while carrying out anti-insurgency operations in the northeast.The state government had also cancelled the events at the festival on Monday to pay homage to the dead as they were laid to rest. However, with pressure mounting from civil organisations to call off the festivities, and with most of the tribal bodies withdrawing from the event to express their solidarity with the Konyaks, the government decided to cancel the remaining three days of the festival.Also Read: Nagaland lawmaker KG Kenye slams Afspa, compares it with ‘licence to kill’Government spokesperson Kronu asked the general public and government employees to help the entrepreneurs who had set up stalls at the festival site by purchasing their products. He also said that perishable goods will be allowed to be sold at the festival venue to help such traders.According to tourism department officials, the festival had around 40,000 visitors during the first five days. In 2019, the department recorded 282,811 footfall at the 20th edition of the festival. Last year, the event was held virtually due to the Covid-19 pandemic.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/nagaland-civilian-killings-hornbill-festival-cut-short-by-3-days-101638873188609.html
07-12-2021||India||Nagaland firing: Rio's cabinet to write to Centre demanding immediate repeal of AFSPA||The Nagaland cabinet of chief minister Neiphiu Rio on Tuesday decided to write to the Union government to immediately repeal the Armed Forces (Special Powers) Act amid a major uproar over the recent killing of 14 civilians by the security forces in northeastern state. The cabinet would also ask the Centre to ensure that the Special Investigation Team (SIT) formed by the latter should complete its investigation and submit a report within a month.Also read | Tension prevails in Nagaland following death of 14 in botched security opThe decisions were taken at an emergency meeting of the cabinet held to discuss the firing incident in Mon district and the subsequent developments in the region, said minister for planning and government spokesperson Neiba Kronu.In the state cabinet meeting over firing incident in Mon, Nagaland, it's been decided to write to GoI "to immediately repeal AFSPA, 1958 from the State, and that Special Investigation Team formed by Centre should complete its investigation & submit its report by one month time. " pic.twitter.com/GaTA3L47ID“The cabinet was briefed on the actions taken by the government, including setting up an SIT headed by an IGP and consisting of four other members. The Cabinet decided the SIT should complete its investigation and submit its report by one month time. The cabinet also decided to write to the Government of India "to immediately repeal AFSPA, 1958 from the state,” Kronu said.Also read | Respond to the Nagaland killingIt was further decided that the cabinet would support the demands put forward by the Konyak Union to President Ram Nath Kovind.Earlier in the day, the state government called off the ongoing Hornbill Festival in protest against the killings.The 10-day festival, the state's largest tourism extravaganza held at Naga Heritage Village in Kisama near the state capital, was scheduled to end on December 10.The state government had cancelled the day's event at the venue on Monday. Several tribes from eastern Nagaland and other parts of the state had suspended all activities at their respective Morungs over the killing in Mon district.Rio, while attending the funeral of the 14 civilians in Mon town on Monday, had also joined a growing chorus of demands seeking the repeal of AFSPA that gives special powers to security forces in "disturbed areas".Critics have maintained that the controversial law allows the armed forces to act with impunity, leading to human rights violations.(With inputs from agencies)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/nagaland-firing-cabinet-to-write-to-centre-demanding-immediate-repeal-of-afspa-101638872890664.html
07-12-2021||India||No infiltration case reported along China-Bhutan border, Parliament told||No infiltration cases took place at the China and Bhutan border in the last three years, said Minister of State in the Ministry of Home Affairs Nisith Pramanik while responding to a question on infiltration at borders in Lok Sabha on Tuesday.Member of Parliament Chirag Paswan asked questions on several cases of infiltration that have come to light in bordering areas during the last three years and the action taken by the Government in this regard.In a written reply to the question, Pramanik said, "128 infiltrations reported along Pakistan border, 1787 along Bangladesh border, 25 along Nepal border, 133 along Myanmar border while nil at China and Bhutan border.""These cases are dealt with by the Border Guarding Forces in close coordination with other government agencies including State Governments, as per the extant laws," he added.When asked whether the government proposes to constitute a special monitoring team to monitor and check infiltration given a steep rise in population ratio particularly in border areas, Pramanik replied that the government agencies including Border Guarding Forces are monitoring and taking steps to check and curb infiltration.On seeking the details of the steps being taken by the Government to deal with the population imbalance in such areas, the minister replied that the Government has adopted a multi-pronged approach to contain cross-border infiltration which inter-alia includes deployment of Border Guarding Forces along the International Borders, erection of border fencing and floodlighting, effective domination of the borders by patrolling, laying Nakas, manning observation posts along the borders, vulnerability mapping of Border Out Posts (BOPs), deployment of special surveillance equipment and vehicles like Hand Held Thermal Imager (HHTI), Night Vision Device (NVD).The approach also includes Twin telescope, Unmanned Aerial Vehicles (UAVs), Long Range Reconnaissance and Observation System (LORROS), Battle Field Surveillance Radar (BFSR), Integrated surveillance technology equipped with Closed-circuit Television (CCTV)/Pan Tilted and Zoom (PTZ) Cameras, IR Sensors and Infrared alarm with Command and Control System, relentless anti-infiltration operations, strengthening of intelligence network, anti-tunnelling exercise in vulnerable areas and deployment of watercraft boats, floating BOPs and technological solutions in non-feasible border areas like riverine gaps, etc.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/no-infiltration-case-reported-along-china-bhutan-border-parliament-told-101638870463252.html
07-12-2021||India||Nagaland lawmaker KG Kenye slams Afspa, compares it with ‘licence to kill’||The Armed Forces (Special Powers) Act, also known as Afspa, should be repealed immediately as it is “tantamount to a licence to kill” and it has only created animosity between the people and the government, claimed Naga People’s Front leader and Rajya Sabha MP KG Kenye on Tuesday. His remarks came in the aftermath of the killings of 14 civilians in Nagaland over the weekend during a botched counter-insurgency army operation and subsequent violence.Condemning the killings by the Indian Army’s 21 Para Special Forces, who have been named in a police FIR, the lawmaker said, “I want to awaken the conscience of the nation that this Act is detrimental to the national interest. It has been of no use except [to] create animosity… It is the culprit for the excesses being committed by the armed forces. The special powers are being abused. It (the Afspa) tantamounts to being a licence to kill.”Kenye told HT that the Afspa, which has been in place in Nagaland since 1958, has been used with “impunity, killing innocent people, and there is no law to prosecute them”.Also Read: TMC team headed to Nagaland returns from Kolkata airport, says Sec 144 imposed in MonOn Monday, amid growing clamour for the law to be scrapped, union home minister Amit Shah expressed regret over the killings and told Parliament that the firings were a consequence of “mistaken identity”. He also said that the security forces had to shoot “for their own safety and to disperse the crowd”.Kenye welcomed Shah’s comments, saying, “The circumstances as per his description are yet to be authenticated. But as for the government expressing sincere regrets, is something we are glad for. For the first time, a man of his stature on behalf of the government has taken responsibility. This is a paradigm shift.” On the impact that the episode will have on the electoral fortunes of the BJP and its ally, the Nationalist Democratic Progressive Party (NDPP), which is in power in the state, Kenye said political parties won’t bear the brunt of people’s anger since the Afspa has anyway been in place in Nagaland for years during which power has changed hands between various parties. The NPF was also a partner of the BJP in the northeastern state.“The state government does not have much role to play. The Assam Rifles is under the Centre. The state has made ex gratia payment, the CM representing voices across parties has expressed that the Afspa should be repealed,” Kenye said.The lawmaker, however, lamented that the civilian killings will undo the progress made in firming up the Naga Peace Accord. “If this continues, then people may put pressure on the parties to pull out and that would be catastrophic. After so much effort by various parties and right-thinking people, we are on the threshold of a possible amicable settlement, and within hours, the bridge of friendship has been dismantled by the armed forces. Ultimately, the biggest casualty will be national integrity,” the MP said. Apart from calling for the Afspa to be repealed, Kenye pushed for a speedy trial in connection with the weekend’s killings. “It is unpardonable and the culprits must be brought to book as early as possible, which will be the biggest consolation for everyone,” he said.
07-12-2021||India||Should hand over white structure in Mathura to Hindus: UP minister||Uttar Pradesh minister Anand Swarup Shukla has said Muslims should hand over a mosque close to a temple at the Shri Krishna Janmabhoomi in Mathura to Hindus, referring to it as a “safed bhavan” (white structure).In provocative remarks on Monday, he said while the court had resolved the Ayodhya issue, the “white structures” in Varanasi and Mathura hurt Hindus."A time will come when the white structure in Mathura that hurts every Hindu will be removed with the help of the court,” Shukla, the minister of state for parliamentary affairs, told reporters Monday evening.“Dr Ram Manohar Lohia had said that the Muslims of India would have to believe that Ram and Krishna were their ancestors and that Babar, Akbar and Aurangzeb were attackers. Do not associate yourself with any building built by them," he added.The minister said, "The Muslim community should come forward and hand over the white structure located in the Shri Krishna Janmabhoomi complex in Mathura to Hindus. Time will come when this work will be completed."He said on December 6 (1992), ‘karsewaks’ had removed a “blot on Ramlalla” and now a grand temple is being constructed there. He was apparently referring to the demolition of the Babri Masjid in Ayodhya by Hindutva mobs.Asked about the conversion of former Shia Waqf Board chairman Syed Wasim Rizvi to 'Sanatan dharma' (Hinduism), he said Muslims should follow and do "ghar wapsi" (return to Hinduism)."All Muslims in the country are converted. If they see their history, they will find that 200-250 years ago they converted to Islam from Hinduism. We will like all of them to do 'ghar vapasi',” he said, hailing Rizvi for his "courageous" step."This step is a challenge for Maulanas and Maulvis who live in the country and promote a Talabani mindset," Shukla said.He said India's basic culture is of 'Hindutva' (Hinduism) and 'Bhartiyata' and they are complementary to each other.He termed the Samajwadi Party, its founder Mulayam Singh Yadav and president Akhilesh Yadav as “anti-Hindu” and accused them of “ordering firing” on unarmed 'karsewaks' in Ayodhya.On Sunday, BJP MP Ravindra Kushwaha had said when the Narendra Modi government can repeal the farm laws keeping in mind the protests by farmers, it can also withdraw the Places of Worship (Special Provisions) Act, 1991 to pave way for the construction of a grand temple at Shri Krishna Janmabhoomi in Mathura.Uttar Pradesh Deputy Chief Minister Keshav Prasad Maurya had also offered support for a new temple in Mathura.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/should-hand-over-white-structure-in-mathura-to-hindus-up-minister-101638869435949.html
07-12-2021||India||Omicron threat has potential to derail domestic aviation recovery: ICRA||The threat posed by the Omicron variant of the coronavirus has not only delayed the resumption of international flight operations, but it also has the potential to derail the recovery of the domestic aviation sector if it sparks a fresh round of lockdowns or curbs, research conducted by ICRA (Investment Information and Credit Rating Agency) said. It also underlined that though the recovery in the sector continued, the demand from the corporate traveller segment was subdued as was reflected by the passenger traffic being lower by around 19% in November 2021 compared to pre-Covid levels. Domestic air traffic grew by around 15-16% with around 10.4-10.5 million passengers flying last month, compared to around 8.98 million fliers in October 2021. Year on Year figures showed that with around 80,750 departures in November 2021, airlines’ capacity deployment was around 49% higher than November 2020 when 54,132 departures were recorded, the agency said. it added that the number of departures in November 2021 was higher by around 12% compared to October 21 since Covid-19 infections demonstrated a downward trajectory. “The threat of [the] new variant, which has pushed [back] the resumption of scheduled international operations, has the potential to derail the domestic recovery too, if it becomes a source of fresh round of lockdowns/restrictions in the near term,” Suprio Banerjee, ICRA’s vice president and sector head said. Also Read | Omicron: German tests Covid positive in Madhya Pradesh, had attended a weddingTalking of the gradual recovery in the domestic sector, Banerjee said that in November 2021, the average daily departures were at around 2,700, significantly higher than 1,806 daily departures in November 2020, and higher than around 2,400 in October 2021. He added that the average number of passengers per flight during November 2021 also rose to reach around 129, against an average of 125 in October 2021. “Though the recovery continued in November 2021, demand continues to be subdued from the corporate traveller segment as reflected by the passenger traffic being lower by around 19% in November 2021 compared to pre-Covid levels,” he added.On November 26, the director general of civil aviation (DGCA) announced resumption of scheduled International operations from December 15 with some restrictions. However, the regulator had to postpone it till further notice, due to the spread of the Omicron variant. Under the Vande Bharat Mission (VBM), which started from May 7, 2020, international passenger traffic for Indian carriers stood at around 5.7 million till November 30, 2021.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/omicron-threat-has-potential-to-derail-domestic-aviation-recovery-icra-101638868448107.html
07-12-2021||India||Red caps a red alert for UP: As polls near, Modi has a warning against Samajwadi Party||Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Tuesday said red caps (Samajwadi Party symbol) means red alert for Uttar Pradesh. Stating that the Akhilesh Yadav-led Samajwadi Party (SP) wants to form the next government in the state to show leniency towards terrorists, Modi said, “Always remember the 'red caps' are red alert for UP -- they (ring alarm) bells to danger.”Modi was speaking at the inauguration of three mega projects, including an AIIMS and a major fertiliser plant, in chief minister Yogi Adityanath's home turf Gorakhpur. Uttar Pradesh is set to witness an Assembly election next year.The PM said the SP leadership only cared for power – to fill their coffers, indulge in illegal encroachments and provide freedom to the mafia. “Today, the entire UP knows that the 'red caps' cared about 'red beacons' alone. They had nothing to do with your pain and issues. The 'red caps' want power - for scams and for filling their coffers, for illegal encroachments, for providing freedom to mafia,” he was was quoted as saying by news agency ANI.Hitting out at the opposition over its criticism of the handling of the Covid-19 pandemic, Modi said, “These people can never understand that even during the coronavirus crisis, the double engine government continued with development. It did not let the work stop.” Also read | In poll-bound UP’s Gorakhpur, PM Modi talks about double engine govtsAround the same time, Yadav held a joint rally with Jayant Chaudhary of the Rashtriya Lok Dal in Meerut. Meanwhile, Modi further said when work is done with a good intention, even disasters do not become a hindrance, adding the opening of a fertiliser plant and AIIMS in Gorakhpur is sending out several messages.“When there is a government that worries about the oppressed and deprived sections, then it works hard and even yields results. The programme in Gorakhpur today is proof that nothing is impossible for new India when it becomes determined,” he further said.The PM inaugurated development projects worth over ₹9,600 crore during the day in Gorakhpur.  Governor Anandiben Patel and Adityanath were also present at the event."I had come here five years ago to lay the foundation stone of AIIMS and a fertilizer factory. You have given me the privilege of launching these two together today. The Regional Medical Research Center of ICMR also got its new building today. I congratulate the people of Uttar Pradesh," he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/red-caps-a-red-alert-for-up-as-polls-near-modi-warns-against-samajwadi-party-101638867820026.html
07-12-2021||India||In poll-bound UP’s Gorakhpur, PM Modi talks about double engine govts||Prime Minister Narendra Modi said on Tuesday the inauguration of the fertiliser plant and All India Institute of Medical Sciences (AIIMS) in Gorakhpur has sent out several messages and is proof that nothing is impossible for new India when it becomes determined.“When there is a double engine government, then work takes place at double speed. When work is done with honest intentions, then even calamities can't become obstacles,” PM Modi said in Gorakhpur, chief minister Yogi Adityanath’s home turf, as he inaugurated three projects in the city.“When there is a government that worries about the oppressed and deprived sections, then it works hard and even yields results. The program in Gorakhpur today is proof of the fact that nothing is impossible for new India when it becomes determined,” he added.Also read | Shut for 30 years, PM Modi to inaugurate ₹8,600-cr Gorakhpur fertiliser plantThe Prime Minister said everybody knew the importance of the Gorakhpur fertiliser plant for farmers and employment here. “But the previous governments showed no interest in starting it. Everyone knew that AIIMS Gorakhpur has been a long pending demand but the governments before 2017 made excuses in allotting land for it,” he said.The fertiliser plant, AIIMS and a Regional Medical Research Centre of the Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR) were among the three mega projects worth over ₹9,600 crore dedicated to the nation by PM Modi just months ahead of the Uttar Pradesh assembly polls.Also read | Earlier governments ignored needs of Gorakhpur, says CM YogiIn his speech during the event, Adityanath targeted opposition parties and said no one took the initiative to restart the Gorakhpur fertiliser factory shut from 1990 until 2014 and “only the BJP government had the courage to restart it.”"This inauguration program today is like a dream come true for the people in eastern UP, which was impossible for the opposition. Five governments came and went in UP in the last 30 years," Adityanath said."Gorakhpur was fighting medical issues for 40 years and thousands died because of the negligence of the state and central governments," he added.Also read | PM Modi has fulfilled dreams of Purvanchal with ₹10 K crore projects: YogiThe Gorakhpur fertiliser plant will be operated by the Hindustan Urvarak Rasayan Limited (HURL). According to officials, the Gorakhpur AIIMS, built at a cost of ₹1,011 crore, will benefit not only the people of eastern Uttar Pradesh but those from Bihar, Jharkhand and Nepal with its world-class health facilities.The regional medical research centre set up at a cost of ₹36 crore will facilitate the test and research of vector-borne diseases, they added. The high-tech lab will decrease the dependency of the area on big cities for tests related to vector-borne diseases.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/in-poll-bound-up-s-gorakhpur-pm-modi-talks-about-double-engine-govts-101638866685619.html
07-12-2021||India||Farmers protest: Supreme Court adjourns plea seeking removal of protesters from roads to January 2022||The Supreme Court on Tuesday adjourned to January 2022 the hearing of a writ petition filed by a Noida resident, seeking removal of anti-farm law protestors from roads in and around Delhi.A two-judge bench, headed by Justice SK Kaul and also comprising Justice MM Sundresh, posted the matter for hearing in the second week of the new year after Solicitor General Tushar Mehta sought more time in view of the ‘changed circumstances,' Livelaw reported.Mehta was referring to the repeal of the three contentious agricultural laws. On November 19, Prime Minister Narendra Modi, in an address to the nation, announced that the legislations were being rolled back. On November 29, day 1 of the ongoing winter session of Parliament, a bill to repeal the laws was passed in both Lok Sabha and Rajya Sabha.Also Read | Union Cabinet approves bill to repeal three contentious farm lawsThe plea seeking removal of farmers was filed by Monicca Agarwal, who submitted that due to the road blockade, her daily commute time had increased. However, farmer leaders, who have been spearheading the stir, have always argued that it is not them but the Delhi Police which have blocked the roads, by placing obstructions such as barriers.While hearing the petition, on September 30, Justice Kaul observed that a section of society may be against a particular policy of the government, but the ‘occupation of highways cannot go forever.’ In a further hearing, on October 21, the bench gave three weeks' time to farmer unions to file their response on plea seeking removal of protesters. The case was then posted for hearing on December 7.Also Read | Farmers have right to protest, but roads can't be blocked indefinitely: SCThough the farm laws have been repealed, agitating farmers have refused to end their protests. They have sent a set of six demands to the Union government; these include a law guaranteeing Minimum Support Price (MSP), withdrawal of cases against farmers and financial compensation for farmers who lost their lives during the agitation, which completed 1 year on November 26.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/farmers-protest-supreme-court-adjourns-plea-seeking-removal-of-protesters-from-roads-to-january-2022-101638863787014.html
07-12-2021||India||Omicron: German tests Covid positive in Madhya Pradesh, had attended a wedding||Amid the concerns around Omicron, the new variant of coronavirus, a news has emerged from Madhya Pradesh that has concerned healthcare officials.A 28-year-old German national has tested positive for Covid-19 in Madhya Pradesh’s Jabalpur and his sample has been sent for genome sequencing, an official said on Tuesday.The German national even attended a wedding, due to which samples of at least 50 people were collected for testing, district contact officer Dr D Mohanty said.The man reached Jabalpur on Sunday from New Delhi. He tested negative for Covid-19 in the Rapid Antigen Test at the airport. Later, his RT-PCR test report came out positive on Monday, Mohanty said. The man was subsequently kept in isolation at a Covid-19 care centre of a local government medical college, he added.So far, no case of Omicron has been detected in Madhya Pradesh.The Omicron variant was detected in south African region late last month. Since then, it has spread to at least two dozen countries; India too has reported 23 cases.The highest number of Omicron cases have come from Maharashtra. The other states where such cases have been reported are Karnataka, Rajasthan, Gujarat and national capital Delhi.In Maharashtra, seven cases have been reported from Pune, and three from the Mumbai Metropolitan Region (MMR). Out of these, two cases were reported from Mumbai and one from nearby Thane district.All the people were vaccinated and showed mild symptoms.The Omicron strain has been categorised as ‘variant of concern’ by the World Health Organization (WHO).A number of countries have imposed travel ban on African countries. India too has categories 11 countries as ‘at risk’ and implemented strict measures for people arriving from here.These people have to show a negative RT-PCR certificate (not older than 72 hours) before coming to India. They will also have to update the details of their last 14 days of travel on government’s Suvidha portal and mandatorily undergo seven-day quarantine after reaching India and testing negative. If they test positive, such travellers will be shifted to isolation centre at designated hospitals.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/omicron-german-tests-covid-positive-in-madhya-pradesh-had-attended-a-wedding-101638863354987.html
07-12-2021||India||Pandemic far from over, Indian forces fully engaged in supporting govt, says army chief Naravane||Indian Army chief General Manoj Mukund Naravane on Tuesday asserted the coronavirus pandemic is far from over citing the emergence of new variants across the world.“I would like to highlight that during the ongoing pandemic situation, the Indian forces were fully engaged in government efforts to provide all necessary support. We reached the remotest parts of our country and provided them help to minimise the impact of the pandemic,” Gen Naravane said at PANEX-21, a disaster management exercise.“A range of factors such as climate change, unplanned urbanisation, underdevelopment, poverty and threat of pandemics will result in an increased frequency, complexity and severity of disasters in the future,” Gen Naravane also said.Attended by Bimstec countries—Bangladesh, Bhutan, Nepal, Sri Lanka, Myanmar, Thailand and India—the focus of the exercise will be on providing relief and fostering joint planning amid the ongoing Coronavirus pandemic.#WATCH "Another issue I'd like to highlight...a new kind of warfare. If biological warfare is beginning to take shape, we need to put our act together & strengthen ourselves to ensure our nations aren't affected by these viruses & diseases," says CDS at PANEX-21 curtain-raiser pic.twitter.com/OlpYKduAFlApart from Gen Naravane, minister of state for defence Ajay Bhat, chief of defence staff (CDS) General Bipin Rawat and the delegates of Bimstec will take part in the PANEX-21 exercise on disaster management which will be held in Pune from December 20-22.Gen Rawat emphasised it was crucial for all nations to support each other if there's a disaster in any of the nations. “If biological warfare is beginning to take shape, we need to put our act together and strengthen ourselves to ensure our nations aren't affected by these viruses and diseases,” Rawat said during his address at the curtain-raiser, according to news agency ANI.Gen Rawat said all nations need to be prepared amid the emergence of Omicron, Coronavirus's new variant. “We see that now Omicron is there, whether it is going to mutate in other forms, we have to remain prepared for it,” Rawat said.PANEX-21 is being held in the backdrop of the emergence of the Omicron variant which has sparked widespread concerns across the world. Even as information on the variant is scanty, scientists are fearing Omicron to be more dangerous than the Delta variant, which wreaked havoc in the previous waves of the coronavirus disease (Covid-19).||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/pandemic-far-from-over-indian-forces-fully-engaged-in-supporting-govt-says-army-chief-naravane-101638863041067.html
07-12-2021||India||News updates from HT: PM Modi tells BJP MPs to be regular in Parliament and all the latest news||Here are today’s top news, analysis, and opinion at 1pm. Know all about the latest news and other news updates from Hindustan Times.BJP parliamentary party meeting: MPs told to regularly attend Parl sessionsPrime Minister Narendra Modi on Tuesday chaired a parliamentary party meeting of the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) at the Dr Ambedkar International Centre in New Delhi. Read moreRahul Gandhi gives adjournment motion notice in Lok Sabha over farmers’ issueFarm unions have claimed that nearly 700 farmers lost their lives during the protests and their pending demands include compensation as well as withdrawal of all criminal cases lodged against protesting farmers. Read more'This is why he is such a successful captain': Ex-Pakistan skipper praises Kohli for Rahane statement after NZ seriesDespite the outside noise growing stronger by the day, captain Kohli admitted that it will not impact the decision of the team management and backed the team's vice-captain. Read moreAbhishek Bachchan says he left Boston as Amitabh Bachchan was in financial crisis: ‘Didn’t know how he’d get dinner’Abhishek Bachchan, in a new interview, revealed that he left Boston ‘halfway’ through his acting course to be with his father Amitabh Bachchan during the family's financial crisis. Read more2021 Volkswagen Tiguan launched at ₹32 lakh2021 Volkswagen Tiguan was launched today at a price of ₹31.99 lakh (introductory, ex-showroom) for the ‘Elegance’ variant.The five-seater SUV is part of Volkswagen's India 2.0 strategy. Read moreSara Ali Khan is a princess in ₹3 lakh ivory gown for Atrangi Re album launch with Akshay KumarSara Ali Khan attended the album launch event of her upcoming film, Atrangi Re, with Akshay Kumar. She wore an ivory embroidered gown worth ₹3 lakh for the occasion. Read moreMan who built Taj Mahal replica for wife of 27 years shares his love storyDo you use the Internet regularly? Then there is a chance that you already know about the man who commissioned a scaled down Taj Mahal replica to honour his wife of 27 years. Read more||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/news-updates-from-ht-pm-modi-tells-bjp-mps-to-be-regular-in-parliament-and-all-the-latest-news-101638858310302.html
07-12-2021||India||‘We can’t afford to let it be perceived…': Shashi Tharoor has this to say on Afspa||Amid demands that the Centre should revoke the contentious Armed Forces (Special Powers) Act (AFSPA) from the northeast in the wake of civilian killings in Nagaland, Congress MP Shashi Tharoor said on Tuesday that there should not be a perception that under the act, security forces can act with impunity.Also Read | Demand for Afspa repeal renews in Nagaland“In a state where the government claims to be engaged in a very successful peace talks, look at the kind of condition they have reduced the state to today,” news agency ANI quoted Tharoor as saying. The Congress MP was referring to the much-publicised peace agreement between the Union government and the Naga insurgent groups.“In our manifesto, we said that AFSPA has to be reviewed,” he further said, talking about the Congress’ manifesto for the 2019 Lok Sabha elections. The party had promised that if elected to power, it would amend the act. We can't afford to let it be perceived by people as something that allows security forces to act with impunity. HM & Defence Min should've addressed House & listened to what House has to say. Instead, you gave a very short statement&walked away without taking questions: S Tharoor pic.twitter.com/fIg3TIG9pmTharoor then slammed Union home minister Amit Shah for his speech in Parliament on the civilian killings in the northeastern state. “We can’t afford to let it be perceived by people as something that allows security forces to act with impunity. Home minister and defence minister should’ve addressed the House. Instead, you gave a very short statement and walked away without taking questions,” he said.On Monday, Shah spoke in Parliament on the killings, laying out the sequence of events which transpired last Saturday. The central government and Army have both said that it was a case of ‘mistaken identity’ as the security forces had laid an ambush on receiving inputs about movement of the insurgents, but ended up killing 13 civilians instead. One army jawan was also killed as angry villagers attacked the army party.  The civilian killings have once again triggered demands seeking withdrawal of AFSPA, which grants special powers to the armed forces to maintain public order in ‘disturbed areas.’ Nagaland CM Neiphiu Rio, his Meghalaya counterpart Conrad Sangma, Opposition MPs in Parliament, and civil society members have all demanded that the act be immediately withdrawn from the northeastern states.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/we-can-t-afford-this-perception-shashi-tharoor-has-this-to-say-on-afspa-101638860947835.html
07-12-2021||India||Maharashtra ex-chief secretary joins ED probe against Anil Deshmukh||Former Maharashtra chief secretary Sitaram Kunte on Tuesday appeared before the Enforcement Directorate in the money laundering case linked to extortion and cash-for-transfers accusations against the former state home minister Anil Deshmukh.Kunte was earlier summoned by ED on November 25 to answer some questions but didn’t appear, citing some important meetings. Now, that he has retired from the service on November 30, he visited ED office in Ballard estate on Tuesday morning at around 11.10am and joined the investigation. Before being promoted as the chief secretary, Kunte held the office of additional chief secretary (home).People aware of the developments said that ED was trying to build a water tight case against Deshmukh, who was arrested on November 2 under the Prevention of Money Laundering Act (PMLA) in a case of extortion from Mumbai’s bars and subsequently also accused of bribery in transfer and postings of senior police officers in the state. Presently Deshmukh is in judicial custody. Earlier, the ED questioned transportation minister Anil Parab and Bajrang Kharmate in the PMLA case. Kharmate’s name had cropped up in the statement of dismissed assistant police inspector Sachin Vaze and some other witnesses against Deshmukh. Also Read: SC junks NIA plea against bail to Bhima-Koregaon activist Sudha BharadwajOn September 30, the anti-money laundering agency questioned Kailash Gaikwad, a deputy secretary in the state home department in connection with the transfers and postings case. Gaikwad was part of the IPS (Indian Police Service) officers transfer process.The money laundering case against Deshmukh was registered after the Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI) filed a first information report (FIR) against him on April 21. Deshmukh had in the past said that the allegations against him were false. The Central agency has alleged that while serving as Maharashtra home minister, Deshmukh misused his position, and through assistant police inspector Sachin Vaze — who has now been dismissed and is in Taloja jail for his alleged role in the Antilia explosives scare and Mansukh Hiran murder cases — collected ₹4.7 crore from Mumbai’s bars for their “smooth functioning”. Later, through hawala channels, the money was sent to two brothers in Delhi who operated bogus companies, said the agency. It claimed that the two brothers later diverted the money as donations to Nagpur-based Shri Sai Shikshan Sansthan, an educational trust controlled by the Deshmukhs.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/maharashtra-ex-chief-secretary-joins-ed-probe-against-anil-deshmukh-101638861882442.html
07-12-2021||India||PM Modi's first stop in January 2022 is trusted allies UAE and Kuwait||Prime Minister Narendra Modi is expected to open his 2022 foreign visit calendar by trip to trusted allies United Arab Emirates and Kuwait early next month.While PM Modi will visit Dubai 2020 Expo, the real purpose of the visit is to thank both the allies for standing with India during the second wave of Covid-19 pandemic as well as taking care of the huge Indian diaspora in these two emirates. The UAE has no less than four million Indian passport carrying Indians and Kuwait has nearly one million Indian diaspora, who contribute to Indian economy through remittances as well as in times of need.Even though the government is tight-lipped about the entire visit, PM Modi may travel to these two countries in the first 10 days of January 2022. Special emphasis is being paid to these two foreign trips as both nations are at the heart of India’s foreign policy towards Middle-East.Since his first visit to UAE at the invitation of Crown Prince Mohammed bin Zayed Al Nahyan in August 2015, PM Modi is totally focused on cementing ties with Abu Dhabi with foreign minister S Jaishankar returning from the UAE last Sunday. UAE is India’s third largest trade partner after US and China with the trade volumes touching over USD 60 billion. The January 2022 trip would be PM Modi’s fourth visit to the UAE, a sea change from the time that the last PM to visit the UAE was Indira Gandhi, 32 years before PM Modi.India and the UAE today have cemented their ties to a new level with the latter cleaning up all anti-India criminal and economic activity from the Gulf nation with intense cooperation in fields of cyber-security, counter-radicalisation, defence and intelligence sharing. “Just as India is focused on Singapore as a hub of diplomatic activity in the east, Abu Dhabi is the other hub in the Middle-East region for getting investments into India,” said a former foreign secretary. India recognises that UAE over the years not only has developed global infrastructure but also is a hub of diplomatic activity in Middle-East. It is also a major regional defence power as was evident when last week UAE decided to purchase 80 Rafale fighters and 13 heavy lift helicopters from France.Like the UAE, Indian ties with Kuwait are very special with the latter supplying oxygen cylinders and other medical equipment in large numbers during the second wave of pandemic in India. In fact, EAM Jaishankar flew to Kuwait with a personal letter from PM Modi to Kuwaiti Emir Sheikh Nawaf al-Ahmed al-Sabah for thanking Kuwait for its support and future objective of deepening ties in energy, trade, information technology and manpower sector.
07-12-2021||India||Supreme Court junks NIA plea against bail to Bhima-Koregaon activist Sudha Bharadwaj||The Supreme Court on Tuesday dismissed an appeal by the National Investigation Agency (NIA) against an earlier Bombay high court order granting default bail to Bhima-Koregaon activist Sudha Bharadwaj. Junking the NIA's plea, the top court said that only a special court, as opposed to a magisterial court, could have extended the time investigation and detention as provided under the Unlawful Activities Prevention Act (UAPA) and Section 167(2) of the Code of Criminal Procedure (CrPC). According to Bar and Bench, the Supreme Court bench of justices UU Lalit, S Ravindra Bhat, and Bela M Trivedi asked the NIA why it made this application for an extension before a magisterial court when there is a separate special court at Pune, manned by special judges who ought to be hearing the NIA case. This is, incidentally, the similar ground on which Bharadwaj, who was arrested in the Elgar Parishad-Maoist links case in August 2018 under the provisions of the stringent UAPA, was granted default bail by the Bombay high court last week.The high court had also directed that Bharadwaj, lodged in the Byculla women's prison, be produced before the Mumbai special NIA court on December 8, and conditions of her bail and date of release be decided.The case relates to alleged inflammatory speeches delivered at the Elgar Parishad conclave, held at Shaniwarwada in Pune on December 31, 2017, which the police claimed triggered violence the next day near the Bhima-Koregaon war memorial located on the city's outskirts. The Pune police had claimed the conclave was backed by Maoists. The probe in the case was later transferred to the NIA.Although Bharadwaj is the first among 16 activists and academicians arrested in the case to have been granted default bail, the pleas of others, including poet-activist Varavara Rao, Vernon Gonsalves, and Arun Ferreira, were rejected.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/supreme-court-junks-nia-plea-against-bail-to-bhima-koregaon-activist-sudha-bharadwaj-101638857633316.html
07-12-2021||India||Rahul Gandhi gives adjournment motion notice in Lok Sabha over farmers’ issue||Congress MP Rahul Gandhi gave an adjournment motion notice in the Lok Sabha on Tuesday over the issue of compensation to the farmers who allegedly died during their agitation against the three farm laws that were finally repealed by the Centre on the first day of the winter session of Parliament on November 29.“I hereby give [a notice] of my intention to ask for leave to move a motion for the adjournment of the business of the house for the purpose of discussing a definite matter of urgent importance,” the Wayanad MP wrote in his notice to the secretary general of Lok Sabha.Gandhi added, “Farmers continue to seek justice and raise demands on various issues affecting the fundamentals of agriculture. Farmers also seek justice for all those who are being falsely prosecuted in manufactured cases and for the families of the farmers, who sacrificed themselves in the yearlong agitation.”Farm unions have claimed nearly 700 farmers lost their lives during the protests and their pending demands include compensation as well as withdrawal of all criminal cases lodged against protesting farmers. However, the Union government told the Parliament last week that it has no data on farmers who died during the year-long protests against the three farm laws and therefore there was no question of compensation to their families.Also Read: Shut for 30 years, PM Modi to inaugurate ₹8,600-cr Gorakhpur fertiliser plantIn his reply on the third day of the ongoing winter session, agriculture minister Narendra Singh Tomar also said the government did not have records on the number of police cases registered against farmers in various states.In the Rajya Sabha, too, Congress MP Manish Tewari raised the issue of farmers through an adjournment motion over the Minimum Support Price, compensation, job for the families of the farmers who allegedly died during the agitation and withdrawal of cases filed against them. The protesting farmers have decided to continue their stir till the Central government responds to their demands such as a legal guarantee for MSP and rehabilitation for kin of the farmers who died during the agitation.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/rahul-gandhi-gives-adjournment-motion-notice-in-lok-sabha-over-farmers-issue-101638858642196.html
07-12-2021||India||Shut for 30 years, PM Modi to inaugurate ₹8,600-cr Gorakhpur fertiliser plant||Prime Minister Narendra Modi will on Tuesday inaugurate three ambitious projects worth over ₹9,600 crore, including a fertiliser plant, in Uttar Pradesh chief minister Yogi Adityanath's home turf Gorakhpur to give further impetus to the growth of the eastern region of the poll-bound state.Among the three megaprojects is the Gorakhpur Fertiliser Plant, whose foundation stone was laid by PM Modi on July 22, 2016. It has been revived after more than 30 years and built at a cost of around ₹8,600 crore, a release by the Prime Minister’s Office (PMO) said earlier this month.After PM Modi inaugurates the plant located about 12km north from Gorakhpur town on National Highway 28 on Tuesday, it will start producing 12.7 lakh metric tonnes of indigenous neem coated urea every year and about 3850 metric tons will be produced daily.Also read | Earlier governments ignored needs of Gorakhpur, says CM Yogi“It will help prove to be of immense benefit for the farmers of Purvanchal region and adjoining areas by meeting their demand for Urea fertilizer. It will also boost the overall economic growth of the region,” the statement said.According to the PMO release, the project has been set up under Hindustan Urvarak & Rasayan Limited (HURL), a joint venture of National Thermal Power Corporation (NTPC), Coal India Limited, Indian Oil Corporation Limited, Fertilizer Corporation of India and Hindustan Fertilizer Corporation Limited.Also read | ‘Gorakhpur metrolite phase 1 project gets PIB approval’: Yogi AdityanathThe height of the prilling tower of Gorakhpur Fertiliser Plant is more than double that of Qutub Minar (73 m). The height of the tower designed by the Japanese company is 149.5 meters. Its diameter is 28 to 29 meters. This factory costing more than eight thousand crores will be powered by natural gas, so there is no danger of polluting the environment.Japan’s Toyo Engineering Corporation was awarded the contract for the construction of the large-scale fertiliser complex in 2018. The complex was jointly built with Toyo Engineering India Private Limited, Toyo’s group company in India, HURL, CIL, NTPC, and IOCL as lead promoters.Also read | PM Modi has fulfilled dreams of Purvanchal with ₹10 K crore projects: YogiThe PMO release has said the project has the world's highest prilling tower of 149.2 metre and consists of India’s first air operated Rubber Dam and Blast Proof Control Room to enhance safety aspects.The height of the prilling tower of the urea plant at this facility is the highest among all the fertiliser companies in the country. Before Gorakhpur, the tallest tower was the Chambal Fertilizer Plant in Kota with a height of about 142 metres.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/shut-for-30-years-pm-modi-to-inaugurate-rs-8-600-cr-gorakhpur-fertiliser-plant-101638857806540.html
07-12-2021||India||CBI court refuses bail to Yes Bank executive Mahesh Varakh||A special CBI court last week rejected the bail application of Mahesh Kumar Varakh, former group executive vice-president of Yes Bank Ltd in connection with a case of financial irregularities involving Dewan Housing Finance Corporation Ltd (DHFL).Seeking bail, Varakh’s counsel argued that the Central Bureau of Investigation had filed the supplementary charge-sheet in the case without arresting him and that the accused had cooperated with the investigations.They added that the Yes Bank board had not approved the sanction to prosecute him.With the aim to bolster his case, his lawyers added that Varakh was innocent and one of the junior most officers in the management committee of the Bank that decided collectively on sanction and disbursal of loans and Varakh only implemented their decisions, especially that of Rajiv Anand. Anand is the former business head of the bank, who was denied bail in September this year. The CBI in March 2020 registered FIRs against DHFL, DoIT Urban Ventures-- a firm controlled by Yes Bank founder Rana Kapoor’s wife and daughters-- and some other entities, their directors and promoters for financial fraud. CBI alleged that Yes Bank invested ₹3,700 crore in short term non-convertible debentures of DHFL between April and June 2018 and DoIT Urban Ventures received ₹600 crore as kickbacks from DHFL for grant of the irregular loan. Kapoor was arrested in March 2020 by the CBI. CBI opposed Varakh’s bail plea contending that the accused played an active role in the financial fraud thereby causing wrongful loss of public money. The agency argued that a person if allowed bail after misappropriating huge public funds would act as encouragement to many others to commit similar crimes. Also Read | Police can’t press criminal charges against Param Bir Singh: Supreme CourtThe court said that Varakh as the group executive vice-president of the bank had higher responsibility to protect its interests but he acted on the insistence of Rana Kapoor or Rajiv Anand against the bank’s interest.The court said the facts and circumstances showed Varakh was prima-facie complicity in conspiracy with other co-accused, more particularly with Rana Kapoor and Rajiv Anand.The court also said that he played an active role with fraudulent and dishonest intention in sanctioning and disbursement of loans by ignoring various objections. “Not only this, he is a party to backdated sanction orders,” said the court. He has also not verified utilisation of loan amount which is necessary while disbursing sanction loan amounts. The disbursements were made despite no physical developments made in projects and the land was occupied by slum dwellers, the court said while denying Varakh bail.Special CBI judge S U Wadgaonkar accepted the prosecutor’s argument and rejected Varakh’s bail application, observing that in view of the gravity and nature of offence and in the larger interest of society.The court said that even if for the sake of arguments it is assumed that there was insistence from and influence used by other accused - Yes Bank founder Rana Kapoor or the then business head Rajiv Anand, the accused working as Group Executive Vice-President of the Bank had higher responsibility to protect the interests of the bank. Instead, he acted on the insistence Rana Kapoor or Rajiv Anand against the interest of the bank, the court added.The court said the facts and circumstances show Varakh’s prima-facie complicity in conspiracy with other co-accused, more particularly Rana Kapoor and Rajiv Anand in the conspiracy.The court added that though the actual beneficiary of crime proceeds in the case were Wadhawan Brothers of DHFL and Rana Kapoor’s family, the accused despite being a responsible officer, played an active role with fraudulent and dishonest intention in sanctioning and disbursement of loans by ignoring various objections.“Not only this, he is a party to back dated sanction orders,” said the court. He has also not verified utilisation of loan amount which is necessary while disbursing sanction loan amounts. The disbursements were made despite no physical developments made in projects and land was occupied by slum dwellers.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/cbi-court-refuses-bail-to-yes-bank-executive-mahesh-varakh-101638857322000.html
07-12-2021||India||BJP parliamentary party meeting: MPs told to regularly attend Parl sessions||Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Tuesday chaired a parliamentary party meeting of the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) at the Dr Ambedkar International Centre on Janpath Road in New Delhi during which lawmakers were asked to regularly attend Parliament sessions.According to sources, PM Modi expressed concern over the attendance of lawmakers and cautioned that unless they transform themselves, there could be changes. A party functionary said the PM stressed that since it’s the people who elected MPs to represent them in Parliament, lawmakers should make it a priority to dutifully attend Parliament sessions.In a strong warning to his party MPs, Modi said, “Apne aap mein parivartan laiye, warna parivartan apna aap aajata hai,” which translates into: “Change yourself or there will be changes.”This is the first time that the parliamentary party meeting was held outside the Parliament’s precincts due to ongoing work at the complex.It is not the first time that Modi pulled up his party colleagues for not attending proceedings in Parliament, with similar concerns being aired during the monsoon and budget sessions.At Tuesday’s meeting, party MPs were also asked to organise various programmes in their respective constituencies to felicitate Padma awardees and conduct sports events once the winter session of Parliament concludes.PM Modi spoke about the need to focus on the public’s health and said competitions should be conducted by lawmakers to encourage sports events and drills.Modi underlined the importance of “surynamaskar” and it’s health benefits, a BJP functionary said.The prime minister said he will meet zila and mandal presidents in Varanasi on December 14.BJP president JP Nadda said a “kisan sammelan” should be held and farmers who have improved agricultural practices should be felicitated at the event.
07-12-2021||India||Rahul Gandhi gives adjournment motion notice in Lok Sabha over farmers' issue||Congress Lok Sabha MP Rahul Gandhi on Tuesday gave an adjournment motion notice in Lok Sabha seeking compensation for the families of farmers who died during farm laws protest, said sources.Earlier, the government in a reply to the parliament stated that it has not kept track of farmers who lost their lives in the agitation against the farm laws and hence, the question of compensation does not arise.Meanwhile, the farmers' protests will continue till a formal response from the Central government on different issues of farmers is obtained, announced an official statement from Samyukt Kisan Morcha (SKM), which is an aegis of farmer unions on Saturday.A meeting was held on Saturday during which the future course of the farmers' agitation based on pending demands of farmers was discussed. These demands include a legal guarantee for Minimum Support Price (MSP) and rehabilitation for kin of the farmers who died during the agitation, among others.The next meeting of SKM has now been fixed for today.The winter session of the Parliament commenced on November 29 and is scheduled to conclude on December 23. (ANI)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/rahul-gandhi-gives-adjournment-motion-notice-in-lok-sabha-over-farmers-issue-101638856509518.html
07-12-2021||India||'If we do not take adequate measures...': IMA warns of 'massive' third wave of Covid amid Omicron threat||The Indian Medical Association (IMA) has issued a warning about the third wave of the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) hitting the country if necessary precautions are not taken amid the surge in Omicron cases. The new variant of the Sars-CoV-2 virus has so far infected 23 people across the country.Also Read | How can I protect myself from the Omicron variant?With the scientific evidence available and the experience noted in countries of origin, it is evident that the Omicron variant will have high penetrability and will affect more people, the IMA claimed at a press conference on Monday."At a time when India is limping back to normalcy, this is a great setback. If we do not take adequate measures, we may have a massive third wave," it said.The doctors' body also demanded that the government expedite the proposal of vaccinating individuals aged 12 to 18 years."At this juncture, IMA also appeals to the government to officially announce additional dose (of vaccine) be given to healthcare, frontline workers and immunocompromised individuals to augment the immunity," the IMA officials said.The Omicron strain was first detected in southern African countries late last month, and categorised as ‘variant of concern’ by the World Health Organization (WHO). The rapidly-spreading variant is believed to be more resistant to vaccines.Also Read | Nations on high alert as Omicron spreadsSince being detected in Botswana, Omicron has spread to two dozen countries. In India, 23 cases of the new strain has been detected, and the highest number is in Maharashtra.The Indian government has implemented strict measures for international travellers, especially those arriving from countries identified as ‘at risk’ by the Centre. These travellers have to mandatorily carry a negative RT-PCR test result (not older than 72 hours) and upload the travel details of the last 14 days on government’s Suvidha portal.These international passengers have also been asked to quarantine at home for seven days.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/great-setback-ima-warns-of-third-covid-wave-amid-omicron-threat-101638854520708.html
07-12-2021||India||International Civil Aviation Day: Social and economic benefits of the global flight network||International Civil Aviation Day, like every other year, is being celebrated today on December 7 to highlight the role of civil aviation in 21st-century transportation, and the importance it plays in connecting people and enhancing social and economic development around the world. Marked every year since 2013, the International Civil Aviation Day intends to spread worldwide awareness regarding the contributions of the civil aviation industry and the unique role of the International Civil Aviation Organisation (ICAO) in helping countries cooperate and realise a global rapid transport network.Why is International Civil Aviation Day celebrated?According to the United Nations, the International Civil Aviation Day serves the purpose of highlighting the importance of international civil aviation organisations in air travel across the globe. The international UN body keeping track of this entire operation is the ICAO, which is also accountable for maintaining the safety standards of international civil aviation.As we celebrate International Civil Aviation Day, it is only fitting to emphasize continuing the efforts to reconnect the world to recover and revive the industry amid the ongoing coronavirus disease (Covid-19) pandemic.Why are civil aviation and the ICAO important?Economic benefits The aviation industry itself is a source of considerable economic activity, creating jobs that directly serve passengers at airlines, airports, and air navigation services providers. These include check-in, baggage handling, on-site retail, cargo, and catering facilities. Moreover, aviation directly enables jobs in the manufacturing sector (those companies that produce aircraft, engines, and other vital technologies).Apart from these, the indirect impacts include employment and economic activity generated by suppliers to the aviation industry: aviation fuel suppliers; construction companies that build airport facilities; suppliers of subcomponents used in aircraft; manufacturers of goods sold in airport retail outlets; and a wide variety of activities in the business services sector (such as call centres, information technology and accountancy).According to the UN, the contribution of aviation to the global economy is approximately equivalent to the overall GDP of the United Kingdom.Social benefitsAviation also creates unique possibilities for empowering nations and people, regardless of their geographic location. It is a means of allowing people to access what they need: improved livelihoods, food, healthcare, education, safe communities and spaces, etc. Whether it be responses to crises in hours of dire need, humanitarian aid, or leisure activities like vacations and visiting friends and relatives, aviation plays a vital role in promoting social causes and satisfying needs around the world. For all vulnerable groups, as well as for migrant communities and people living in remote and low-density rural areas, air transport services are a lifeline to enhance their social inclusion.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/international-civil-aviation-day-social-and-economic-benefits-of-the-global-flight-network-101638853716819.html
07-12-2021||India||India records 6,822 Covid-19 infections, active caseload lowest in 554 days amid Omicron concerns||India has reported 6,822 new cases of coronavirus disease (Covid-19) and 220 related deaths in the past 24 hours, according to data released by the Union health ministry on Tuesday. With this, the Covid-19 caseload climbed to 3,46,48,383, while the death toll rose to 4,73,757.Even as cases of Covid-19's new variant Omicron continue to emerge, the active cases have been registered to be the lowest in 554 days, at 95,014, according to the data uploaded by the ministry at 8am. The active cases now comprise 0.27 per cent of the total infections, the lowest since March 2020.The daily rise in new infections has been recorded below 10,000 for 11 straight days and less than 50,000 for 163 consecutive days now.Also read | 4 states, Delhi have Omicron cases in India, highest number in MaharashtraAt least 10,004 people recovered from the Covid-19 disease in the past 24 hours, taking the national Covid-19 recovery rate to 98.36 per cent, the highest since March 2020, according to the health ministry.Ever since the vaccination drive began in January this year, India has managed to administer 1.28 billion vaccine doses so far.Speaking of the Omicron variant, which has been classified as a 'variant of concern' by the World Health Organisation, the infection tally in India stood at 23 on Tuesday. The cases have emerged from Maharashtra, Rajasthan, Gujarat, Karnataka and Delhi.India's Covid-19 tally had crossed the 20-lakh mark on August 7, 2020, 30 lakh on August 23, 40 lakh on September 5 and 50 lakh on September 16. It went past 60 lakh on September 28, 70 lakh on October 11, crossed 80 lakh on October 29, 90 lakh on November 20 and surpassed the one-crore mark on December 19.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/india-records-6-822-covid-19-infections-active-caseload-lowest-in-554-days-amid-omicron-concerns-101638851403012.html
07-12-2021||India||Missionary school in MP vandalised after allegations of religious conversion||A mob vandalised a city school during the CBSE Board examination of students of Standard 12 in the Vidisha district on Monday after allegations surfaced regarding religious conversion of students being performed at the school. The Sub-Divisional Magistrate informed that all the children are safe.Speaking to the media, SDM Roshan Rai said that the police personnel have been deployed for the security of the school and all employees, including nuns, are safe."Police personnel have been deployed. All children are safe. Nuns are also here, they are safe too. Senior police officers from the local police station are also present," he said.School Manager of St Joseph School in Ganj Basoda, Brother Antony, told media that a letter was circulated alleging the conversion of students was being done in the school."A letter was circulated in the name of our school that eight Hindu students have been converted to Christianity. The names of the students mentioned in the letter do not study here. The date October 31 was mentioned in the letter which was Sunday when no student or teachers report to school. These students do not study at our school. I have no information of any such student," he said.The manager further said that he had informed about the same to the Superintendent of Police and the District Magistrate."I had informed the SP and DM about the matter, but the incident still took place," he said.However, Sub-Divisional Police Officer, Bharat Bhushan Sharma claimed that "adequate" arrangements have been made to provide security to the school and employees."We had made adequate police arrangements and had tried to stop the vandalism incident," he said.Nilesh Agrawal, who claims to be a Hindu community leader, warned of further protests if the school tries to covert students.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/missionary-school-in-mp-vandalised-after-allegations-of-religious-conversion-101638853286988.html
07-12-2021||India||BJP holds parliamentary party meeting outside Parliament, at 'significant' venue||The Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) held the meeting of its parliamentary party at Dr Ambedkar International Centre at Delhi’s Janpath on Tuesday. The meeting took place outside Parliament House complex as repair works going on in the auditorium, where all party MPs meet.The choice of the venue is significant as the centre is dedicated to Dalit stalwart BR Ambedkar, whose death anniversary was marked on Monday.Prime Minister Narendra Modi, Union ministers Amit Shah, Piyush Goyal, S Jaishankar, Pralhad Joshi, Jitendra Singh and others attended the meeting along with BJP president Jagat Prakash Nadda.At the meeting, the Prime Minister asked party lawmakers to organise programmes in their respective constituencies to felicitate Padma awardees. "Padma Award has been conferred upon common citizens who are doing good work. PM has said to organise events, with such awardees being on live contact," parliamentary affairs minister Pralhad Joshi said while speaking to reporters later.The meeting comes amid repeated adjournments by opposition parties over suspension of 12 members of Parliament (MPs). These leaders are demanding the revocation of their suspension. Due to the protests, Rajya Sabha saw five adjournments on Monday, with the House clocking only 45 minutes of proceedings.The suspended members comprise six from the Congress, two each from Trinamool Congress and Shiv Sena, and one each from CPI and CPM: Phulo Devi Netam, Chhaya Verma, Ripun Bora, Rajamani Patel, Syed Nasir Hussain and Akhilesh Prasad Singh of Congress; Dola Sen, Shanta Chhetri of Trinamool Congress; Priyanka Chaturvedi, Anil Desai of Shiv Sena; Elamaram Kareem of CPM; and, Binoy Viswam of CPI.They were suspended for unruly conduct during the monsoon session of Parliament in August. Marshals were called after opposition members stormed the Well of the House during the passage of the General Insurance Business (Nationalisation) Amendment Bill, 2021.“We explained why they had to be suspended. The country has witnessed whatever took place. It's on record. If they apologise even today, we're ready to withdraw the suspension,” Pralhad Joshi said today.Since after their suspension, all the 12 MPs regularly visit the Parliament and keep sitting outside Mahatma Gandhi Statue.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/bjp-holds-parliamentary-party-meeting-outside-parliament-101638852456611.html
07-12-2021||India||Judges’ salaries and service amendment Bill to be tabled in Lok Sabha||Union law and justice minister Kiren Rijiju will introduce the High Court and Supreme Court Judges (Salaries and Conditions of Service) Amendment Bill, 2021 in the Lok Sabha on Tuesday. The Bill proposes to alter the High Court Judges (Salaries and Conditions of Service) Act and the Supreme Court Judges (Salaries and Conditions of Service) Act to bring clarity concerning the date on which a retired judge becomes eligible for an additional quantum of pension. The bill further proposes to insert an explanation in sections 17B of the HC Judges Act and 16B of the Supreme Court Judges Act to clarify the government’s objective.After the Assisted Reproductive Technology (Regulations) Bill, 2020 or ART 2020 was passed last week in the Lok Sabha by a voice vote, the union health minister will be introducing the bill for passage in the Rajya Sabha. The bill aims to regulate assisted reproductive technology (ART) services such as in-vitro fertilization (IVF) centres, sperm or egg banks etc that have mushroomed across the country. The Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR) laid out guidelines for ART clinics as far back as 2005, however, these do not enjoy legislative backing. By some estimates, over 80 per cent of clinics offering ART facilities in the country remain unregistered. Dr Mandaviya will also be introducing the Surrogacy (Regulation) Bill, 2020 in the Rajya Sabha. It was passed by Lok Sabha in August 2019 before it was referred to a parliamentary Select Committee, which recommended that the ART Bill be brought first, so that all the highly technical and medical aspects could subsequently be addressed in the Surrogacy (Regulation) Bill, 2019.Also Read: Holding liquor bottle package in Parl, BJP MP slams Delhi govt’s excise policyThe ART and the Surrogacy Bill were also listed as Monday’s agenda but couldn’t be taken up amid opposition protest against the suspension of 12 Rajya Sabha MPs. The Rajya Sabha proceedings were adjourned twice during the pre-lunch period on Monday.Opposition members belonging to the Trinamool Congress, the Congress, Aam Aadmi Party and the Left trooped into the Well of the House, raising slogans against the government.Reports of several parliamentary committees including Empowerment of Women, Energy, Food, Consumer Affairs And Public Distribution, Rural Development & Panchayati Raj, Water Resources will be tabled in both the Houses.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/judges-salaries-and-service-amendment-bill-to-be-tabled-in-lok-sabha-101638851621669.html
07-12-2021||India||No data on Covid-related suicides among vendors, traders, businessmen: Centre||The Central government on Monday said it does not have any data on suicides among vendors, tradesmen and businessmen due to the economic toll of Covid-related lockdowns.The Ministry of Micro, Small and Medium Enterprise (MSME) said this in the Rajya Sabha in response to a question posed by Indian Union Muslim League (IUML) MP Abdul Wahab. Wahab sought to know whether the government noticed that the crisis in the MSME sector as a consequence of the pandemic resulted in suicides of vendors, tradesmen, and other businessmen.“This ministry does not maintain data of suicides. The ministry has also not received any such information of suicide of vendors, tradesmen & businessmen as a consequence of the pandemic,” read the ministry’s response.In his question, Wahab had cited numbers from the latest National Crime Records Bureau (NCRB) report. The latest NCRB 2020 report, released in September 2021, said as many as 11,716 businessmen died by suicide in 2020.The report said of these over 11,000 deaths, 4,356 were that of “tradesmen” and 4,226 were of “vendors”, with the rest being accounted for in the category of “other businesses”. These are the three groups that the NCRB categorises the business community into while recording suicides.Compared to 2019, deaths by suicide among the business community in 2020 increased 29%. Suicides among tradespeople, meanwhile, increased from 2,906 in 2019 to 4,356 in 2020 — a 49.9% jump, as per the official data.Also Read: 4 states, Delhi have Omicron cases in India, highest number in MaharashtraWhen asked about what was the government doing to support the families of the vendors, tradesmen and other businessmen who died by suicide in 2020, the ministry listed various schemes and programmes for the growth and development of the MSME sector in the country.“Post Covid-19, the government has taken a number of initiatives under Aatmanirbhar Bharat Abhiyan to support the MSME Sector in the country, especially in Covid-19 pandemic,” read the response.The ministry further claimed that the online portal Champion, launched by the government to cover many aspects of e-governances including grievance redressal and handholdings of MSME, redressed over 40,000 grievances as of November 29.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/no-info-on-suicide-of-vendors-businessmen-due-to-covid-centre-101638850241412.html
07-12-2021||NA||Parliament Highlights: Lok Sabha adjourned till 11am tomorrow||Wednesday, December 7, marks the seventh day of the ongoing Winter session of Parliament. The session has, thus far, been marred by opposition protests over issues such as the repeal of the three central farm laws, suspension of 12 opposition MPs from Rajya Sabha for the rest of the session, and, on Monday, the killing of civilians in Nagaland by security forces, in what the Centre and the Army has described as a case of ‘mistaken identity.’The Winter session, which began on November 29, is scheduled to conclude on December 23.Follow all the updates here:Lok Sabha adjourned till 11 am tomorrowLok Sabha has been adjourned till 11am tomorrow (December 8).Under insolvency law, 421 cases involving a realisable value of over ₹2L crore were resolved till Sept 30: Govt at RSUnion finance minister Nirmala Sitharaman told the Rajya Sabha on Tuesday that a total of 421 cases involving a realisable value of ₹2.55 lakh crore were resolved, and 1,149 cases having a liquidation value of ₹52,036 crore went for liquidation under the insolvency law till September 30. 55 terror funding cases assigned to NIA from 2018-202018, 14 and 23 cases of terror funding entrusted to the National Investigation Agency in 2018, 2019 and 2020 respectively. Nine cases assigned till November this year: MoS (Home) Nityanand Rai in Lok SabhaCong MP Tharoor and BJP's Dubey spar in Lok SabhaCongress MP Shashi Tharoor and BJP's Nishikant Dubey spar in Lok Sabha over HC, SC Judges (Salaries and Conditions of Service) Amendment Bill. Suspension of MPs: Opposition parties to boycott RS tomorrowOpposition and like-minded parties will boycott the Rajya Sabha tomorrow over the suspension of 12 MPs: Sanjay Raut, Shiv Sena MPRajya Sabha adjourned for the dayRajya Sabha proceedings adjourned for the day, to resume at 11am on Wednesday.‘Suspension of MPs is against democracy’: Mallikarjun KhargeSuspension of MPs is against Constitutionand democracy. They would've suspended MPs if Monsoon session went for adjournment but punishing members in Winter Session for what they did in Monsoon sitting is wrong. They didn't even mention charges: Mallikarjun KhargeExtension in jurisdiction of BSF aimed at empowering force, says MHAExtension in territorial jurisdiction of the Border Security Force in some states is aimed at empowering the BSF to discharge border guarding duties more effectively in the wake of use of technology like drones, Unmanned Aerial Vehicle, etc by anti-national forces for surveillance and smuggling: Nityanand Rai, MoS (Home), in Lok Sabha.‘Govt responsible for today’s obstructions in Rajya Sabha'The government is responsible for the obstructions arising in the Rajya Sabha today. We tried a lot to facilitate the functioning of the House, we met Leader of the House and Chairman repeatedly to put forth our views that MPs can be suspended only as per Rule 256: Mallikarjun Kharge, Congress MP and Leader of Opposition in Rajya Sabha‘Farmers should be given their rights’: Rahul Gandhi in Lok Sabha“I want that the farmers be given their rights, they should be given compensation as well as jobs,” says Congress MP Rahul Gandhi in Lok Sabha.Suspended Rajya Sabha MPs continue sit-in protestNationalist Congress Party chief Sharad Pawar and Samajwadi Party MP Jaya Bachchan join the sit-in protest by the 12 suspended Rajya Sabha MPs at the Gandhi statue in Parliament premises.NPP gives adjournment motion notice in LS over AFSPANational People's Party (NPP) MP Agatha Sangma gives adjournment motion notice in Lok Sabha over the demand to repeal AFSPA.Rajya Sabha adjourned till 2pmRajya Sabha adjourned till 2 pm amid demand by Opposition MPs for the revocation of suspension of 12 members of the House.BJP's Sushil Modi gives zero-hour notice in Rajya SabhaBJP MP Sushil Modi gives zero-hour notice in Rajya Sabha seeking removal of an MPs discretionary power to exclusive quota for admission in Kendriya Vidyalaya.Cong RS member gives adjournment motion notice over MSP ActCongress Rajya Sabha MP Deepender Hooda gives adjournment motion notice over farmers demand for MSP Act, compensation and job for the families of the farmers who died during agitation and withdrawal of cases filed against them.Farmers' issue: Rahul Gandhi gives adjournment motion noticeCongress MP Rahul Gandhi gives adjournment in Lok Sabha over farmers issue.Manish Tewari gives adjournment motion notice in Lok SabhaCongress MP Manish Tewari gives adjournment motion notice in Lok Sabha over reports of China setting up villages near Arunachal Pradesh and Doklam.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/parliament-winter-session-live-updates-december-7-2021-101638847982795.html
07-12-2021||India||Koo co-founder Aprameya Radhakrishna on platform's growth, competition with Twitter, its future and more||In recent months, homegrown social media platform Koo has seen tremendous growth in India, driven by the multi-lingual support it offers and the push it received by the Indian government.Koo's user base touched about 15 million in October, with five million users added in the last quarter.From HT Archive: All you need to know about Twitter-rival KooIn an exclusive chat with hindustantimes.com, its founder and CEO Aprameya Radhakrishna talks about the idea behind starting Koo, its journey and future plans.Here is the full interview:Q. What was the intention of starting Koo? And has it succeeded in achieving the intended purpose? Take us through the journey.Aprameya Radhakrishna: The idea of Koo occurred to us while we were building our first product - Vokal - which is a Q&A platform for native language speakers. Several users of Vokal would express their keen interest to share their free-flowing thoughts, in addition to answering questions on the platform. That’s when we recognised that when it comes to expressing online, there exists an immense opportunity waiting to be tapped, especially in native languages. In a country like India - where more than 90 per cent of our population thinks and speaks in a regional language - the power of expression in one's mother tongue is truly immense. We studied existing products and realised that content in Indian languages is sparse, as most social media platforms carry an English-first approach and are built primarily for English speakers residing in urban centres. Native speakers also carry a strong desire to connect and create content, but are left out of core internet experiences due to the English-centric foundations of most platforms. Thus, we started developing Koo as a multi-lingual micro-blogging platform for Indians to express in their mother tongue and connect with their linguistic and cultural communities. We started in December 2019 and launched the platform in March 2020 in Kannada from Mandya, which is a district near Mysuru (in Karnataka). We received a thunderous response at the launch which boosted our confidence, and eventually led us to introduce Hindi on the platform in the next few months.In July 2020, we participated in the 'Aatmanirbhar App' challenge - and showcased a deeply immersive language experience for Indians. We were among the top three apps in social media out of the 7,000 startups that had participated in the challenge. And in August 2020, Prime Minister Narendra Modi mentioned Koo in his ‘Mann ki Baat’ address.Also Read | Koo plans to ramp up hiring, plans to be 500-strong in next yearQ. Do you think Koo app can get ahead of Twitter in India? What is the current market share of Koo?Aprameya Radhakrishna: Within 20 months of our launch - in October this year - Koo achieved a major milestone of 15 million downloads. Our first 10 million downloads happened in about a year and half, while the next five million users joined the platform in a quarter. This indicates that the Koo App is being adopted at an accelerated pace. As we move ahead, backed by our unique language features which provide an immersive experience, we are confident of outperforming ourselves and scaling at a rapid pace to hit 100 million downloads.India has tremendous potential for a platform like ours. A recent report stated that India would have over 900 million internet users by 2025. Koo is one of the most unique social products that caters to every section of the society and promotes digital inclusion. It is also a powerful platform, with some of the most prominent faces of the country using it every day. We have received a lot of love and appreciation in such a short span and we will continue to scale and cross many more milestones in the future.Q. This year, a very public spat between the government and Twitter made people sit up and take note of the Koo app and there was a flurry of activity to download it. How would you view that crisis in the larger picture of Koo's growth trajectory?Aprameya Radhakrishna: In the larger scheme of things, the growth we got during the spat will seem like a small spurt. Our growth purely reflects people's desire to express and engage online in their mother tongue. It's a large, untapped need.Q. For an average user, how is Koo different from Twitter?Aprameya Radhakrishna: Koo and Twitter are both micro-blogging platforms. That is where the similarity ends. Koo is an innovative platform that democratises the voice of Indians by empowering them to express in native Indian languages - Hindi, Bengali, Assamese, Tamil, Telugu, Marathi, Kannada, Gujarati apart from English. We are working towards adding more native languages and our aim is to cover all the 22 official Indian languages. Moreover, we have a unique feature which enables creators to send their message in real-time across languages, while retaining the context and sentiment attached to the original text. This enhances a user’s reach, as the message can be consumed by people across the country in a language of their choice. Followership thus increases in a short span of time. In addition to these language features, we have communities for each language that is available on the platform. These communities celebrate the essence of their respective culture and regions. A user can engage with a community that reflects his/her interests and gain a meaningful experience.Q. Tell us something about the revenue model of Koo.Aprameya Radhakrishna: We are pre-revenue. Our priority right now is to grow the community and our tech capabilities.Q. Micro-blogging has evolved during the last decade to become a powerful political tool. How does Koo view its evolution and what role it plans for itself in this space?Aprameya Radhakrishna: There are many use cases for a product like Koo. One of them is the need for leaders and prominent personalities to stay in touch with people that want to hear from them. We enable them to do so in multiple languages - something no other does. These updates and two way conversations become invaluable when done in the language that the masses prefer.Q. What is the traffic around elections and political issues on Koo? How seriously are people taking it?Aprameya Radhakrishna: Koo is an inclusive platform for expression which is beyond politics. We have people from all walks of life including literature, sports, media, entertainment, theatre, spirituality, etc. In fact, 70-80 per cent of the content and people on Koo are totally unrelated to politics. But when it comes to politics, Koo has made significant progress in getting adopted by leaders of the ruling party and the opposition at both the national and state levels. This is because we are a transparent and inclusive platform. We have chief ministers of 17 states, various Union ministers, government departments and leaders across the political spectrum who actively Koo, and share updates on various initiatives and developments. Our multi-language features have made it easy for leaders to engage with their followers by conversing in their native language in a holistic manner.In Uttar Pradesh, which is scheduled to go to the polls early next year, we believe that with the kind of traction we are seeing in terms of onboarding of political leaders, political parties, government departments and opinion leaders, a lot of the conversation about elections and candidates etc will happen on Koo exclusively. In addition, a large number of the people of UP have started creating accounts on Koo to consume content as well as share their own opinions - mostly in Hindi.Q. For the upcoming assembly elections, have you planned anything special? Can we expect a digital-only feature that will set Koo apart from other micro-blogging apps?Aprameya Radhakrishna: Apart from the wide range of content creators and users on the platform, Koo already has several smart features that can make it the app of choice for the elections. The most unique feature is enabling people to put across their message in multiple Indian languages and connect with multiple communities at one go. Other features include our Talk-to-Type feature - which enables a user to share their thoughts without having to type. A user can merely speak out aloud and the words are converted into text, making it the easiest way to communicate on a micro-blogging platform. This Talk-to-Type feature is especially useful for people who do not know how to write the language. The Livestream feature, which was rolled out earlier this week, will create the opportunity for live discussions and debate on the platform and further enhance the experience for our users. Q. The government is gung-ho about data localisation. How is Koo addressing this issue?Aprameya Radhakrishna: Our servers are hosted in India. From our perspective, the reasons for regulations are understandable and we'll abide by these regulations respectfully.Q. Which emerging technologies and trends offer maximum challenges and opportunities to a micro-blogging app like you?Aprameya Radhakrishna: Our product framework is generic and enables open expression in the best form. We cater to the most core human needs - something that will never change. Any new technologies that better this communication are something that we'll adopt as a platform.Q. Koo is often accused of having very little global exposure and not hosting any prominent international celebrity. Your thoughts.Aprameya Radhakrishna: It's by design. Koo has been built for Indians to solve for language diversity. Our endeavour is to enable every Indian to express and share thoughts online in a language of their choice. The average Indian doesn't want to connect with international celebrities as much as they want to connect with local and national heroes they look upto and people like themselves.This is true for many countries that aren't English-first and we will take our product to all such countries to enable better connections between people.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/koo-co-founder-aprameya-radhakrishna-on-platform-s-growth-and-more-101638845963935.html
07-12-2021||India||4 states, Delhi have Omicron cases in India, highest number in Maharashtra||The Omicron strain of the coronavirus is spreading fast in India as well as the world. On Monday, India’s tally neared the two-dozen mark (23 to be exact) after two more people were confirmed infected with Omicron in Maharashtra’s capital Mumbai.So far, Maharashtra has recorded 10 cases of Omicron, the highest in the country.Also Read | Nations on high alert as Omicron spreadsAccording to BrihanMumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC), a 37-year-old man, who landed in Mumbai from South Africa on November 25, was found infected with Omicron along with one of his contacts - a 36-year-old female friend who arrived in the city from the US the same day.The release said both of them were fully vaccinated.These are the first two cases of Omicron from Mumbai and the third one from the Mumbai Metropolitan Region (MMR). Earlier, a 33-year-old traveller, who had returned to Dombivli in adjoining Thane district from South Africa, had tested positive for the new variant.The BMC further said that it has been carrying out Covid-19 tests in international travellers from November 1, and has so far found 16 of them positive with the infection. While 12 of them are males, the other four are females, the civic body said.It further said in a release that a total of 4,480 passengers have arrived in Mumbai from "at-risk" countries till December 5.Also Read | Omicron vs Delta: Battle of coronavirus mutants is criticalBefore Mumbai, six people, including three Nigerian nationals, tested positive for the Omicron variant in Pimpri Chinchwad of Pune district. Another man who recently returned from Finland to Pune, also tested positive for Omicron.Rajasthan (9), Karnataka (2) and Gujarat (1) are the other states where Omicron cases have been reported. National capital Delhi too reported a case of the new variant of the Sars-CoV-2 virus on December 5.The Omicron variant first emerged in southern Africa late last month. The scientists there identified the fast-spreading strain in one of the samples taken from Botswana. Since then, Omicron has spread to two dozen countries.The World Health Organization (WHO) has categorised Omicron ‘variant of concern’ and warned people to remain cautious.The Indian government implemented strict measures for international travellers, especially those who are arriving from Omicron-hit places, categorised as ‘at risk’ countries.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/4-states-delhi-have-omicron-cases-in-india-highest-number-in-maharashtra-101638842525770.html
07-12-2021||India||Rajiv Gandhi assassination: SC to hear case of premature release of convicts||The Supreme Court is expected to hear on Tuesday a case relating to the premature release of seven convicts currently serving life imprisonment terms for the assassination of former Prime Minister Rajiv Gandhi. According to reports, the Tamil Nadu government informed the Madras high court last week that the case is likely to be listed before the apex court on December 7.The petition for premature release was filed back in 2016 by 46-year-old AG Perarivalan, one of the convicts seeking the suspension of his life sentence in the case till the CBI-led Multi-Disciplinary Monitoring Agency (MDMA) completes its probe on the aspect of a larger conspiracy behind the assassination of the former prime minister.At the hearing of the case last year, the Supreme Court sought to know the current status of a recommendation made by the Tamil Nadu cabinet to the state's governor in September 2018 to release all the convicts under powers granted by Article 161 of the Constitution.Notably, the aforementioned article empowers a governor to pardon a convict in any criminal case.In its reply, the state government had said that the governor was waiting for the final report of the MDMA before taking a decision. Later, at a hearing on January 21 last year, the government further informed that the governor would be taking a call on the remittance petition filed by Perarivalan. However, a month later, the Union home ministry said the governor had studied all the reports available to him and recommended that the President of India would be the appropriate authority to deal with the request of premature release.Meanwhile, the Tamil Nadu government had also filed a counter-affidavit against a similar petition by S Nalini, another one of the convicts, noting that she cannot be released without the governor's assent and that the court should dismiss the plea to release her.Rajiv Gandhi was assassinated on the night of May 21, 1991, at Sriperumbudur in Tamil Nadu by a female suicide bomber, identified as Dhanu, at a poll rally.Fourteen others, including Dhanu herself, were also killed. Gandhi's assassination was perhaps the first case of suicide bombing which had claimed the life of a high-profile leader.In its May 1999 order, the Supreme Court had upheld the death sentences of four convicts -- Perarivalan, Murugan, Santham, and Nalini.In April 2000, the Tamil Nadu governor had commuted the death sentence of Nalini on the basis of the state government's recommendation and an appeal by former Congress president and Rajiv Gandhi's widow Sonia Gandhi.On February 18, 2014, the top court had commuted the death sentence of Perarivalan to life imprisonment, along with that of two other prisoners – Santhan and Murugan – on the grounds of an 11-year delay in deciding their mercy pleas by the central government.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/rajiv-gandhi-assassination-sc-to-hear-case-of-premature-release-of-convicts-101638839289071.html
07-12-2021||India||Jawad-induced rain damages crops in Odisha, West Bengal||Heavy rainfall triggered by the remnants of Cyclone Jawad has caused a large-scale damage to standing paddy and other crops, which were nearing their harvest, in the southern districts of West Bengal and various coastal districts of Odisha, even as authorities in both states ordered damage assessment.Even though the cyclone lost its steam while still over the Bay of Bengal, it triggered heavy rains it coastal districts of both the states. The cyclone weakened into a low-pressure by Monday and was expected to move towards Bangladesh, while weakening further, according to the India Meteorological Department (IMD).On Monday, the Odisha government directed all district collectors to furnish report on losses suffered to the standing crop in their respective districts. Minister for revenue and disaster management Sudam Marndi said he has sought damage assessment reports from all district collectors. “After a review on the damage caused due to the rainfall, financial aid will be provided to the affected persons as per the relief code norms,” said Marndi.Though Cyclone Jawad weakened into a low-pressure, it triggered heavy rainfall in the southern districts of West Bengal, particularly those in the coastal regions, since Saturday. “Till around 8.30 am on Monday, many places in south Bengal received more than 100 mm rain in the last 24 hours. Kolkata received around 70mm rain,” said an official of the regional weather forecasting centre in Kolkata.West Bengal agriculture department secretary OS Meena said the state authorities had issued an advisory well in advance, on November 30, to harvest the paddy crops. “Most of the paddy crops that were mature have been harvested. Those who had not planted the potato tubers were asked to delay the process by a week at least. We are taking stock of the situation, but the crops are insured,” Meena said.The heavy rainfall came at a time when the paddy crops were on the verge of harvesting and several farmers had planted potato tubers.“I had suffered extensive damage when Cyclone Yaas hit in May this year. Saline water from the river had gushed into the village killing all the crops. Thereafter, I grew salt tolerant paddy. They were almost ripe and were on the verge of being harvested. But the rains ruined it all. I could save only around 25% of it,” said Gunadhar Patra, a farmer in Sandeshkhali in North 24 Parganas.After Yaas in May 2021, around 1,200 MT of salt-tolerant paddy seeds were distributed in the three coastal districts — East Medinipur, South 24 Parganas and North 24 Parganas. More than 38,000 farmers would have befitted from the seeds had they yielded paddy.But several farmers had complained that most of the crops got damaged, even before they could be transplanted, as heavy rains battered the districts of south Bengal in July-end, resulting in floods in some districts.“I had planted potato tubers just around a week ago. But the field is now under water because of the heavy rains. I would incur heavy losses this time. Untimely rain has cost us dearly,” said Nikhil Roy, a farmer in Gosaba block of South 24 Parganas.In Odisha, farmers in at least 10 districts sustained major crop damage as heavy rainfall submerged ripened paddy crops, officials said, adding that thousands of hectares of standing paddy have been inundated.Farmers in Ganjam, Gajapati, Jagatsinghpur, Khordha, Puri, Bhadrak, Balasore, Jajpur, Kendrapara and Cuttack districts tried hard to save their paddy crop, but could not harvest in time.“I had harvested paddy over four acres of land, but could not take it from threshing yard. The entire paddy has turned soggy,” said Arun Jena, a farmer from Balasore. “This year we started paddy crops late due to delayed rains, but now everything is gone.”Farmers in several areas were struggling to drain out the rainwater from the cultivated areas on Monday.Golekh Bihari Sahoo of Banki area in Cuttack district said he tried hard to save his standing paddy crop submerged in the rainwater. “The paddy will now start stinking,” he said.Paddy was cultivated in over 3.5 million hectares across Odisha in 2021 kharif season.Vegetable farmers have also suffered heavy losses due to the rains.Prakash Behera of Pipili block in Puri district said the cauliflowers that he had cultivated in his acre of land, were damaged. “I resorted to distress sale of some of my cauliflowers. I had to sell the cauliflowers at ₹3 per piece,” he said.A 57-year-old farmer in Ganjam district’s Uluma village allegedly died by suicide after consuming pesticides on Sunday, after standing paddy over his two-acre field were inundated.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/jawadinduced-rain-damages-crops-in-odisha-west-bengal-101638840376906.html
07-12-2021||India||Shutters of Kerala's Idukki dam opened after Tamil Nadu's Mullaperiyar move; alert in 2 districts||The Kerala government opened the shutters of the Cheruthoni dam in Idukki early on Tuesday to ease pressure after flow of water from the Mullaperiyar dam. The Tamil Nadu government opened nine gates of the grand old Mullaperiyar dam on Monday night in view of the rising water level in the reservoir.This is for the first time that shutters of Idukki dam have been opened four times in three months. Many people living in the low-lying areas have been shifted.High alert has been sounded in Idukki and Pathanamthitta districts, where locals protested against the opening of the dam's shutters.Kerala water resources minister Roshy Augustine has been camping in the area since the reopening of the gates of Mullaperiyar dam. He said that the state government will move Supreme Court against Tamil Nadu's move.This was the first time that Tamil Nadu opened the gates of the dam at night and Kerala government had protested against the move. “The decision of the Tamil Nadu was irresponsible,” Augustine had said.The Tamil Nadu authorities raised the nine shutters to 120cm at 7.45pm after the water level of over a century-old dam reached 141.90 feet on Monday. Three of the gates were closed after 10pm. According to officials in Kerala's Idukki district, more than 100 families had to be shifted from Idukki due to Tamil Nadu's move.The Mullaperiyar dam, built in 1895 on the Periyar river in Idukki district of Kerala, is operated by the Tamil Nadu government for its irrigation and power needs. Kerala has been insisting on building a new dam, citing safety concerns, but Tamil Nadu is against it, saying the present structure is strong.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/shutters-of-kerala-s-idukki-dam-opened-after-tamil-nadu-s-mullaperiyar-move-101638839091878.html
07-12-2021||India||Supreme Court tells army to reinstate 12 women officers||The Supreme Court on Monday directed the Indian Army to reinstate 12 women short service commission officers (WSSCO) who were released from service after being found unfit for permanent commission.The court declared them eligible for permanent commission (PC) and directed the army to deem them to be in continuous service without break in order to protect their financial and other service benefits. In addition, three WSSCOs, who were yet to be released, were also held eligible for PC by the court.By this decision, out of the 615 women officers considered for PC under a March 25 judgment of the top court, the WSSCOs who opted for PC and have either received or are entitled to receive it has gone up to 502.A bench of justices Dhananajya Y Chandrachud and AS Bopanna, while dealing with the petition filed by the WSSCOs said, “Those WSSCOs released during the pendency of these proceedings shall be deemed to have continued without any break and will be entitled to grant of PC.” The decision of the court was made easy by the army and the Centre which, nudge by the court, agreed to reconsider objections with regard to 12 WSSCOs released from army and three who were still serving.The court also added that with this order, all proceedings initiated by the women officers before armed forces tribunal (AFT) are complete. Appreciating the army for its fair stand, the bench said, “There has been a complete change of mindset at the top as we are now seeing women being provided leadership roles. We are heralding a new era in the armed forces.”Senior advocate V Mohana appearing for some of the women officers said, “The order of the court will go a long way in boosting the morale of the women officers. After being denied PC, the humiliation they had to undergo was enormous.” Supporting her, senior advocate Huzefa Ahmadi said, “There has been a paradigm shift in the role of women in the armed forces. This year will be remembered for this change.”The court also recognized the efforts put in by additional solicitor general (ASG) Sanjay Jain appearing for Centre and senior advocate R Balasubramanian, appearing for the army, who deliberated with the top brass of the army and ministry of defence and informed Court that the decision to reinstate the WSSCOs had the concurrence of the chief of army staff (COAS).The SC judgment of March 25 laid common benchmarks for grant of PC to WSSCOs vis-à-vis their male counterparts. The Court said that any WSSCO who qualified with 60% marks on merit and is medically fit, will be granted PC, subject to disciplinary and vigilance clearance.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/supreme-court-tells-army-to-reinstate-12-women-officers-101638838989344.html
07-12-2021||India||PM Modi to gift 3 mega projects to Gorakhpur today; includes fertiliser plant, AIIMS||Prime Minister Narendra Modi will on Tuesday inaugurate in Uttar Pradesh's Gorakhpur development projects worth over ₹9,600 crore, which includes a major fertiliser plant. Confirming the development, UP chief minister Yogi Adityanath, whose home turf is Gorakhpur, said that Prime Minister Modi will make eastern UP's “dream of development come true” with these three mega projects.The projects to be inaugurated by the Prime Minister, today in Gorakhpur, are –1. A newly built fertiliser plant of Hindustan Urvarak Rasayan Limited (HURL)2. A state-of-the-art AIIMS Gorakhpur hospital, equipped with 300 beds and 14 operation theatres.3. A hi-tech lab at ICMR's regional unit Regional Medical Research Centre (RMRC) in BRD Medical CollegeYogi Adityanath, who arrived in Gorakhpur on Monday evening to take stock of preparations ahead of the Prime Minister's visit, said that the inaugural program of the plant and the AIIMS would be a grand one – considering the fact that the Narendra Modi regime has been “historic” for the growth of Uttar Pradesh.The Gorakhpur fertiliser plant, worth ₹8,603 crore, will produce 12.7 lakh metric tons of neem-coated urea per year, according to officials. The project is expected to not only bring prosperity to farmers’ lives but also create 20,000 direct and indirect employment opportunities for youths.The ₹1,011-crore worth Gorakhpur AIIMS, on the other hand, will not only benefit the population of eastern Uttar Pradesh but also a huge chunk in Bihar, Jharkhand, and Nepal with its world-class health facilities.Similarly, the regional medical research centre, worth ₹36 crore, at BRD Medical College, will facilitate the test and research of vector-borne diseases. The hi-tech lab is expected to decrease the dependency of the area on big cities for tests related to vector-borne diseases.In a related development, Gorakhpur officials confirmed that electric buses, too, will start plying across the district from Tuesday. Fifteen of these buses, flagged off by chief minister Yogi Adityanath in Lucknow on October 15.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/pm-modi-to-gift-3-mega-projects-to-gorakhpur-today-includes-fertiliser-plant-aiims-101638834379066.html
07-12-2021||India||Sikkim Global Film Festival, scheduled to start from Dec 10, postponed||Siliguri: The Sikkim Global Film Festival, which was scheduled to begin on December 10 in Gangtok, was postponed by the state on Monday in view of the uncertain situation due to Omicron variant of the coronavirus disease, people familiar with the matter said. Sikkim imposed a ban on the entry of foreigners last week. Apart from the domestic film industry, the four-day festival was expected to be attended by celebrities from several countries, according to government officials.“A high-level meeting held in Gangtok on Monday and chaired by chief minister Prem Singh Tamang took the decision to postpone the festival,” said a statement issued by the Sikkim information department.Sikkim, which shares a border with China, Nepal and Bhutan, announced a ban on entry of foreign nationals in March last year when Covid-19 cases started rising across India. Sikkim has recorded 405 deaths and 32374 positive cases till Monday.Pooja Sharma, chairperson of the Sikkim Film Production Board, said, “Preparations for the festival were almost complete. Many actors, directors and producers had confirmed their participation.”The PS Tamang government has adopted a new film promotion policy to make the Himalayan state popular among movie makers. Subsidies to the tune of ₹20 lakh for local filmmakers and ₹1 crore for those coming from other states have been announced. Those completing 75 % of the shooting in Sikkim with local people comprising half the cast and crew are entitled to the subsidy. 
07-12-2021||India||Expert panel meet on booster shots, jabs for under 18 remains inconclusive||India’s expert panel on vaccines, which met on Monday did not make recommendations either on booster doses of Covid-19 vaccines or on vaccinating those under 18 years of age, according to people familiar with the matter who asked not to be identified.The National Technical Advisory Group on Immunization (NTAGI), the central government’s expert panel on immunisation, “has not made any recommendations” on any of the issues, a government official said.As cases of the new Omicron variant of Covid-19 rise in the country, there are increasing concerns about those who have been fully vaccinated early in India’s immunisation drive, such as health and frontline workers. This has prompted NTAGI to discuss the feasibility of providing booster or additional doses under the national Covid-19 immunisation programme.The process is likely to happen in a phased manner with those at high risk, such as immunocompromised or immunosupressed persons, receiving priority. However, more evidence is being studied and an attempt made to build consensus over the issue before a recommendation is made in this regard.NTAGI, which advises the central government on immunization, has been working on a comprehensive policy for both booster or additional vaccine doses and vaccination for those in the paediatric age group.“This may be called an additional dose, which is likely to be considered for immunocompromised people to provide additional protection as they are at a higher risk. It’s different from a booster dose that is given after the immunity wanes,” a government expert earlier said on condition of anonymity.The Centre has always maintained its priority was to vaccinate all eligible persons as fast as possible.“With high sero prevalence found in surveys conducted at the national and state-level, it can be safely said that most are well protected at the moment,” Dr Randeep Guleria, director of the All India Institute of Medical Sciences in Delhi, said. “Giving booster shots is not required at this point. The priority should be to vaccinate all eligible persons who are still left.”HT learns that government experts are working on a list of comorbidities that could determine which child is eligible for a vaccine first. The list is likely to have those on cancer treatment, transplant cases, and those with compromised immunity, among others.
07-12-2021||India||Kerala gag order on officials kicks up row; minister denies||The Kerala health department’s order restraining officials from speaking to the media has kicked off a controversy but state health minister Veena George on Monday denied any gag order, saying some arrangements have been made for uniformity. State health services director Dr VR Raju had issued a directive on Saturday making it mandatory for all health officials, especially district medical officers (DMOs), to take permission from the health directorate before talking to the media. An explanation was also sought from Kozhikode DMO Dr Omar Farooq who shared information with the media on a United Kingdom-returned doctor whose samples were sent for testing fearing Omicron infection. Samples of his mother and maid were also sent for examination. Opposition parties and health activists deplored the move, saying it was aimed at concealing facts and the government was yet to learn a lesson from its “mistake of omitting many deaths from fatality list just to maintain its track record”. “It was forced to add more than 5,000 deaths and many such cases are waiting. If court verdict was not there these deaths would have gone unnoticed. The latest is another move to fudge facts,” opposition Congress leader VD Satheesan said, adding the government wants everything a public relation exercise. But the minister denied it. “It was not a gag order. The order was given to maintain uniformity and avoid confusion. It will also help contain unnecessary panic. It was aimed at streamlining information and facts through a single window,” George said. But health activists said instead of bringing more transparency the government was forcing curbs on health officials, real foot soldiers of fight against the pandemic. “It is yet to learn a lesson from its mistakes. The minister admitted that 7,000 deaths were left out. It is another tactic to shut the mouth of officials. It is also keeping experts in the dark to indulge in public relations exercise,” said public health expert Dr SS Lal. The Indian Medical Association’s Kerala chapter also questioned the move. “If none speak authoritatively, wild speculations will rise,” said IMA secretary Joseph Benaven. Kerala was the first state to report Covid-19 infection in the country in January 2020. The state reported 3,277 fresh Covid cases on Monday, after 45,414 samples were tested with a test positivity rate of 7.21%. It also reported 30 deaths but added 138 backlog deaths and total is 41, 768. It has an active caseload of 40,730, according to the state health ministry data. The state has, so far, reported 5,157,369 cases. With 5,833 more people recovering from the virus since Sunday, the total recoveries reached 50,86,044 and the active cases dropped to 40,730, the state government release said. Many health experts and opposition parties alleged that the government was not transparent with its data and it was after records and public relations campaigns. But the ruling CPI(M) denied it. “Instead of playing the role of a construction opposition it finds fault with everything the government does,” said CPI(M) leader A Vijayaraghavan.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/kerala-gag-order-on-officials-kicks-up-row-minister-denies-101638818871905.html
07-12-2021||India||EPS, OPS continue to hold AIADMK top posts||O Panneerselvam and Edappadi Palaniswami will continue as coordinator and joint-coordinator of the AIADMK in a dual leadership set up as the party on Monday announced that they have been unopposed in the intra-party elections to the top posts as there was no other team of nominees.“These nominations were scrutinised on Sunday. Since a lone nomination was filed by Panneerselvam and Palaniswami to contest for the post of coordinator and joint coordinator and the nomination is in accordance with party bylaw Rule 2 (II), they are declared elected unopposed,” senior leader and the election commissioner for these elections C Ponnaiyan announced at the AIADMK headquarters in Chennai on Monday amidst huge applause.A week ago, the AIADMK made a crucial change to the party’s bylaws for the coordinator and joint-coordinator to be elected by the primary cadre where each member casts a single vote for the dual posts. This was also to ensure that the dual leadership solidifies amidst voices calling for a single leadership and to also ensure that expelled leader VK Sasikala finds no space to re-enter either.With this, the AIADMK is said to face the ensuing urban local body polls under Panneerselvam and Palaniswami. “This election is their last chance,” said political analyst Maalan Narayanan. “It is good that they have strengthened their party internally as they are the principal opposition and a strong opposition is good for democracy.”TN parties prep for local urban body polls Meanwhile other regional parties in the state have begun preparing themselves for the elections to urban local bodies expected to be held by January next year which will fill crucial posts of mayors and municipal administrations.Elections to urban local bodies in Tamil Nadu are being held for the first time in five years – the then AIADMK government conducted elections only for local bodies in rural areas in 2019. This would also be the first state-wide elections since the Dravida Munnetra Kazhagam (DMK) formed the government in May for assembly elections held on April 6. Both DMK and AIADMK have already invited applications from contestants for all posts in the urban local bodies.The DMK is coming on the back of a huge victory in the rural body polls held in nine newly carved districts in October. So the chief minister MK Stalin-led DMK is hoping to continue their winning streak which is a referendum on the performance of the seven-month-old government in the state.On Sunday, Stalin addressed a gathering at the DMK party headquarters where new members including those from the AIADMK had joined his party and said that they had secured a 99% victory in the October rural body polls. “I’m aware that you have come with full confidence of winning more than 99% in the upcoming urban local body polls,” Stalin told the crowd. The party is banking on showcasing the government’s achievements so far.The DMK is also focussing on the western region, the only region which continues to support the AIADMK-led NDA alliance in the state. The AIADMK is likely to come under pressure from its ally BJP over seat sharing in this region while another NDA ally, the PMK has already decided to contest alone. The DMDK-led by actor-politician Vijayankanth quit the NDA alliance before the 2021 polls and joined TTV Dhinakaran’s AMMK ahead of the assembly elections and they will also contest alone. Actor-politician Kamal Haasan who was discharged on December 4 following his Covid-19 recovery on Monday released a video urging the cadre of Makkal Needhi Maiam to work towards the upcoming polls.While Dhinakaran’s AMMK has also been holding meetings to prepare for the elections with an aim to reclaim the parent body of the AIADMK, it remains to be seen what Sasikala, who claims to be AIADMK’s general secretary, next moves would be. On Sunday, she took a pledge with her supporters at late J Jayalalithaa’s memorial on her fifth death anniversary to unite and win future elections.
07-12-2021||India||Mumbai registers 2 more Omicron cases, national tally at 23||Two people were found infected with the Omicron variant of the coronavirus in Mumbai and neither had any symptoms of the disease, authorities said on Monday, taking the total cases of such infections in the country to 23 across five states.A 37-year-old man who arrived in Mumbai from South Africa and his 36-year-old friend who landed in the city from the United States tested positive for the variant in Mumbai, said authorities. This takes the total number of cases of the Omicron variant in Maharashtra to 10.According to Maharashtra government officials, both the patients displayed no symptoms and were vaccinated with Pfizer’s Covid-19 vaccine. Five high-risk and 315 low-risk contacts of the patients were traced till late Monday, said officials, adding that vigorous tracing of other contacts was underway.Cases of the Omicron variant have been reported from places in Maharashtra, Rajasthan, Gujarat, Karnataka and Delhi. The first two cases of the variant were reported from Bengaluru last week.In several states, authorities rushed to trace and test people who had come in contact with patients suffering from the Omicron variant of the virus. Scientists have repeatedly called for aggressive testing and tracing to prevent the domestic spread of the variant, which is still being studied across the world.In Gujarat’s Jamnagar, the wife and brother-in-law of a person who was found to be infected with the Omicron variant on Saturday tested positive for Covid-19 and their samples were sent for genome sequencing, said a statement released by the city municipal corporation. It added that both of them were shifted to an isolation ward.On December 4, genome sequencing established the Jamnagar patient, a 72-year-old man who arrived in India from Zimbabwe, had contracted the Omicron variant. Zimbabwe is one of the high-risk countries in southern Africa where the variant was first detected.The man, who had taken both the doses of a Chinese vaccine in Zimbabwe, is currently in the isolation ward of a hospital in Jamnagar. His wife, who came with him from Zimbabwe, and his brother-in-law, who lives in Jamnagar, tested positive for Covid-19 on Sunday and other family members tested negative, Jamnagar’ civic body said.The municipal corporation declared the residential society where the patient’s family resides a micro-containment zone and restricted the movement of people with barricades.In Odisha, two people who arrived from abroad tested positive for Covid-19 and their samples were sent for genome sequencing to the Institute of Life Sciences in Bhubaneswar, said the institute’s director Ajay Parida.Senior health officials said 800-odd people returned to Odisha from 11 countries – United Kingdom, South Africa, Brazil, Botswana, China, Zimbabwe, Mauritius, New Zealand, Hong Kong, Singapore and Israel – that were placed in the ‘at-risk’ category since November 26. About 40% of these persons were not traceable, officials said.In Goa, five people -- three from Russia and two from Georgia -- tested positive for Covid-19 and their swab samples were sent for genome sequencing, officials said. In Kerala, swab samples of a doctor from United Kingdom was sent for genome sequencing, local authorities added.In Telangana, genome sequencing of 13 foreign passengers who tested positive for Covid-19 came back negative for the Omicron variant, said director of medical and health G Srinivas Rao. He added that 1,805 passengers arrived in Hyderabad from high-risk countries in the last five days and 13 had tested positive for Covid-19.In Madhya Pradesh’s Jabalpur, a 28-year-old man who arrived from Germany on Sunday tested positive for Covid-19 and his samples were sent for genome sequencing, said Dr D Mohanty, incharge of contract tracing in the district.In Uttarakhand, officials said 176 samples were sent for genome sequencing. Bihar health minister Mangal Pandey said that the state was on high alert though no cases of the variant were reported from the state.Much remains unknown about Omicron, which was first identified in South Africa on November 8. It was subsequently labelled as a variant of concern by the World Health Organization on November 26.Dozens of countries have imposed travel restrictions on southern African nations since it was discovered.The variant has already gained a foothold in Europe, Africa, the Americas, Asia and Europe. Many governments rushed to tighten travel rules to keep the variant out.According to the India’s genome testing consortium, INSACOG, the omicron variant is characterised by 30 amino acid (building blocks of proteins) changes – of these 15 are in the receptor binding domain that connects with the human cells to enter inside and three small deletions and one small insertion in the spike protein.Experts have stressed that more time is needed to determine if cases of this variant progress to the severe stage, or if vaccines would need to be reworked to combat it.On Monday, Maharashtra’s deputy chief minister Ajit Pawar said there was need to take a decision at the national level on whether a booster dose of the vaccine was required. “Is booster dose required? We have doses available today. There is a need to take a decision at the national level in this regard I think. There are different opinions about it. So, it should be told why it needs to be given or why it shouldn’t. Only experts who have researched it (the infection) can talk about it,” Pawar said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/mumbai-registers-2-more-omicron-cases-tally-at-23-101638818634325.html
07-12-2021||India||Kerala model gang-raped in Kochi, one arrested: Police||Kerala police on Monday arrested a man and is on the lookout for three others, including a woman, in connection with a gang-rape case of a 25-year-old model in Kochi. A senior police officer of the port city said the accused were suspected to be part of a well-knit racket that produced porn and sold them to various adult sites.The arrested has been identified as Salim Kumar and has been booked under rape (section 375), wrongful confinement (section 340) and other sections. The woman was booked under charges abetment to crime and conspiracy, the police said. According to police, the model, hailing from Malappuram, was summoned by the three men on the pretext of a three-day photo shoot at a lodge owned by the accused woman in Kochi on November 28. After the second day of the shoot, the accused gang-raped her for the next two days after she denied shooting “objectionable” images and videos for the perpetrators, the police said. The accused blackmailed her that they would release explicit images, and she was let go on the promise that she would not file a police complaint, the police added.“We fear many girls might be trapped and blackmailed like this. we have recovered some videos from the lodge where she was assaulted. Since the probe is at initial stage we can’t disclose more about it,” said a senior police officer who did not want to identify himself. he also said the woman’s charges of “inept handling” will also be investigated. In her compliant she alleged that she was asked too many embarrassing questions at the Info Park police station by the station in-charge. The victim told police that the accused probably cheated many girls, especially from other states, who might have kept silent, fearing the leak of videos containing intimate scenes. The victim has alleged that the police failed to act initially, which helped some of the accused abscond. The police have denied any laxity on their part.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/kerala-model-gang-raped-in-kochi-one-arrested-police-101638818569863.html
07-12-2021||India||50 students of medical college in Telangana tested Covid positive in past 3 days||As many as 50 students of a private medical college in Telangana’s Karimnagar district tested positive for Covid-19 in the past three days, a week after they attended the annual day celebrations of the college, even as the state reported 195 positive cases and one death on Monday.So far, there has not been a single case of Omicron variant among the international passengers arriving in Hyderabad from identified high-risk countries.“As many as 1,805 passengers have arrived in Hyderabad from high-risk countries in the last five days, including 535 passengers on Monday. Of them only 13 passengers tested positive for Covid-19 and their samples had been sent for genome sequencing. It was revealed that none of them had Omicron variant,” director of medical and health G Srinivas Rao said.However, the sudden spurt of 50 Covid-19 positive cases in Karimnagar medical college caused a concern in the medical and health department.Karimnagar district medical and health officer (DMHO) Dr Juveria told HT that several students of Chelmeda Ananda Rao Institute of Medical Sciences at Bommakal village on the suburbs of Karimnagar town, had undergone tests for Covid-19 after they reported symptoms of the infection.“As per the reports received by the district medical and health department, as many as 50 students tested positive for the virus as on Monday evening. A medical camp was conducted for nearly 1,000 students for the last three days and their test results are awaited, as the staff at the labs are functioning on shifts,” Dr Juveria said.The medical college had held its annual day function on November 28 and the mass gathering might have led to the spread of the disease, she said. “We came to know only after the students with symptoms underwent tests voluntarily,” the DMHO said.Soon after the reports of the students testing positive, the college authorities had suspended classes and shut down the campus. “There is nothing to panic. All our medicos are in normal condition with mild symptoms and are in home isolation,” medical college chairman Chalmeda Lakshmi Narasimha Rao told reporters in Karimnagar in the evening.He refuted the theory that the infection might have spread due to mass gathering at the annual day function as all of them followed the Covid-19 precautions. “We have a multi-speciality hospital attached to our college and several patients come there regularly. The virus might have spread from some of the patients,” Rao said.Following the sudden spurt in Covid-19 positive cases at the medical college, district collector RV Karnan, police commissioner V Satyanarayana and other top medical officials visited the premises and reviewed the situation. They enquired about the facilities available for the treatment of the positive cases.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/50-students-of-medical-college-in-telangana-tested-covid-positive-in-past-three-days-101638818512749.html
07-12-2021||India||How will you restore victim girl’s faith on cops: Kerala high court to government||The Kerala high court on Monday asked the state government what it proposes to do to assuage feelings of an 8-year-old girl and her father, who were accused of theft by a woman police officer in public, so as to restore her confidence in humanity and police. While hearing a plea filed by the girl’s father seeking compensation and strict action against the police officer, the single bench of Justice Devan Ramachandran came down heavily on police for its efforts to save the officer. The pink police officer (specialised force to ensure women safety), meanwhile, tendered an unconditional apology to the court and victims. But the court said it was for the girl and her father to decide whether to accept it or not. Later, her father said he won’t accept an apology at this juncture and will go ahead with his plea. “The visuals of the crying child were really moving. May be the officer did not intend to hurt her, but the court wants to see how the state has taken note of this. What does the state proposes to do for the child to restore her confidence in humanity and police,” the judge observed. During the last hearing, the video of the incident was played in the court room. The incident occurred on August 27. The girl along with her father came to see a gigantic cargo being shifted by road to Vikram Sarabhai Research Centre in the state capital. The pink police was part of police deployment to control the public. When the pink police officer misplaced her mobile phone she accused the father and little girl, who were standing near police vehicle, of stealing it. Both were questioned in public by the officer and the girl broke down during frisking. But a few minutes later phone was recovered from a police jeep and police team left the scene immediately without tendering an apology to the petrified girl. Later, the video of police officer questioning the duo went viral. After the video went viral, the police officer was transferred and asked to undergo behavioral training. When public prosecutor O Narayanan submitted the state police chief’s report in which he stated that the girl started crying when the crowd gathered around them to ridicule the officer after phone was found the court rejected this argument. “She was crying from the very beginning of the video, she was extremely terrified. This is where the cover up starts. Khaki will always go in favour of khaki,” the judge observed criticising the report of the police chief. Earlier, the court had termed her action most “horrendous and insensitive” and asked how a mother can treat a minor girl like this. The counsel appearing for police officer S Rajeev produced an application before the court in which she “whole heartedly apologised to the child”. In her application, she said the father of the child was holding a cigarette and when he saw he hid it from her so she wrongly presumed that he had taken her phone. She pleaded that she was the mother of three minor children and her husband lost job abroad and waiting there for a final settlement. “If this girl does not get justice from this court, where is she going to get it from? She has gone knocking at every commission before coming here,” the judge asked the state to file a detailed reply on next hearing on Dec 15. 
07-12-2021||India||Hyderabad: Speeding car rams into two, kills them on spot||A speeding car, being driven by a 25-year-old realtor, rammed into two men crossing a road at the upscale Banjara Hills in Hyderabad in the early hours of Monday, police said.The deceased were identified as Ayodhya Ram (26), an office assistant at Rainbow Children’s Hospital and Devendra Kumar Das (29), a cook at the same hospital.Police later apprehended Ranjit Kumar Goud, a real estate developer from Uppal area on the city outskirts, who fled the spot soon after the accident and seized his Porsche Cayenne car.Assistant Commissioner of Police (Banjara Hills division) M Sudershan told reporters that the accident happened around 1.30 am right in front of the hospital, when Ram and Das were crossing the road to go back to their homes after completing duties.“The high-end car was travelling at a high speed towards Jubilee Hills, when it hit the victims, killing them on the spot,” Sudarshan said.Even after the accident, Goud did not stop the vehicle. A police squad of the Jubilee Hills police station on night patrolling noticed the partially damaged car speeding on the road, chased it and finally located it being parked a residential complex at Road No 5 of Jubilee Hills.“On getting the alert from Banjara Hills police, the Jubilee Hills police took Goud and two other inmates of the car into custody,” the ACP said.Police booked a case under Section 304 (II) (culpable homicide not amounting to murder) and also under Motor Vehicles Act against Goud. “On suspicion that he was in a drunken condition, he was sent to Osmania General Hospital for an alcohol test,” Sudershan said. The bodies of the victims, both from Gopalpur in Odisha, were shifted to the OGH morgue for post mortem.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/hyderabadspeeding-car-rams-into-two-kills-them-on-spot-101638818510101.html
07-12-2021||India||TRS likely to strike deal with Prashant Kishor for Telangana polls||The Telangana Rashtra Samithi is likely to join the list of various political parties in the country that engaged the services of popular political strategist Prashant Kishor for the next assembly election in 2023 and even the general election in 2024.People in the TRS familiar with the development said a senior representative of Indian Political Action Committee (I-PAC) promoted by Kishor, held preliminary round of negotiations with the top TRS leadership last week.“If everything works out, the party would sign an agreement with the I-PAC sometime this month on working out poll strategies for the TRS in the coming elections,” a senior party leader said on condition of anonymity.The talks are believed to be part of the initiative by Kishor to bring together all the anti-Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) forces in the country before the next general elections.Of late, the TRS has been putting up an aggressive posture against the BJP in the state as well as the Centre. It even attended the meeting of 16 opposition parties at the office of Congress leader Mallikharjun Kharge last week to protest against the suspension of 12 Rajya Sabha members.TRS president and chief minister K Chandrasekhar Rao had been attacking the Narendra Modi government for its alleged anti-people policies, particularly with regard to agriculture laws, lack of nationwide policy on paddy procurement and power sector reforms etc.TRS parliamentary party leader K Kesava Rao said the TRS would coordinate with all the other opposition parties in the coming days as well in fighting against the NDA government.Against this backdrop, the meeting of Kishor’s team member with the TRS leadership assumed significance. “He has been on the mission of mustering support to Trinamool Congress president and West Bengal chief minister Mamata Banerjee. Maybe, he is trying to reach out to KCR as part of his mission,” said political analyst and Osmania University professor K Nageshwar.On the possibility of the TRS engaging the services of Kishor for the next elections, Nageshwar said KCR’s sole interest would be safeguarding power in Telangana, rather than playing any role at the Centre.“Prashant Kishore is a shrewd businessman. He chooses his clients after thoroughly studying the situation in the state so that his business interests are served,” Nageshwar said.Kishor had earlier been hired by the YSR Congress president YS Jagan Mohan Reddy and had played a major role in bringing the party to victory in the 2019 assembly election in Andhra Pradesh. The association between YSRCP and Kishore is still continuing, as his team members are actively involved in the performance analysis of his government and his party MLAs.The strategist also played a major role in the formation of governments in Bihar, Punjab, West Bengal and more recently Tamil Nadu.Interestingly, Kishore also initially helped Jagan’s sister YS Sharmila to launch a regional party in Telangana in the name of YSR Telangana Party in July this year. His team members assisted her in chalking out a route map for her marathon padayatra (foot march) that commenced on October 20. However, the padayatra came to a halt after the announcement of MLC election schedule on November 10.
07-12-2021||India||Sputnik Light vaccine likely to be authorised in India soon: RDIF||The backer of Russia’s Sputnik Light single shot Covid-19 vaccine said on Monday it has presented data from additional clinical trials to India’s regulator and expects the jab to be authorised in the country soon.The Russian Direct Investment Fund (RDIF), Russia’s sovereign wealth fund, said it has also provided India’s regulator with documents for registering Sputnik M, a variant of the vaccine for adolescents aged 12-17.RDIF said these moves were part of efforts to expand cooperation between India and Russia in the fight against Covid-19. The Sputnik V vaccine is already used in India following the grant of emergency use authorisation in April this year.Russian foreign minister Sergey Lavrov said during a media interaction in New Delhi that talks on the production of Sputnik Light in India were nearing completion, though he didn’t give details.Asked about plans to begin production of Sputnik Light in India in December, Lavrov said: “The talks on Sputnik Light are about to be completed and Sputnik V is already being produced in India. We are talking about several hundred million doses per year.”There was no word from the Indian side on the matter.RDIF said in a statement: “Currently, RDIF is actively cooperating with India’s regulatory authorities on registration of Sputnik Light (the one-shot vaccine based on human adenovirus serotype 26, the first component of the Sputnik V) as a standalone vaccine and a universal booster and expects it to be authorised in the country soon.”RDIF’s partner, Hyderabad-based Dr Reddy’s Laboratories, has conducted additional clinical trials of Sputnik Light in India and “positive data” from these trials has been presented to India’s regulator, the statement added.The fund has also provided India’s regulator with documents for registering Sputnik M, which was registered by Russia’s health ministry on November 24. It is a new member of the Sputnik vaccines family and is currently being offered to international markets.The statement said that subject to a “positive decision of India’s authorities, Sputnik M could become the first foreign registered vaccine for adolescents in the country”.RDIF CEO Kirill Dmitriev said: “Russia and India have joined forces since the beginning of the pandemic, with this strategic partnership including production of Sputnik V and Sputnik Light vaccines. A number of agreements with partners in India have helped RDIF to significantly increase our production capabilities.”“We are ready to offer the Sputnik Light vaccine and the Sputnik M vaccine for adolescents to support strong herd immunity in India and continue saving millions of lives,” Dmitriev added.Sputnik V has been authorised in 71 countries with a total population of over four billion people. RDIF has reached agreements with leading pharmaceutical companies, including Serum Institute of India, Gland Pharma, Hetero Biopharma, Panacea Biotec, Stelis Biopharma, Virchow Biotech and Morepen, to produce the Russian vaccines and India is now the leading production hub for Sputnik V and Sputnik Light.The latest findings by the Gamaleya Center, the developer of the Sputnik vaccines, which are based on data from 28,000 subjects in Moscow, have shown that Sputnik Light administered standalone has 70% efficacy against infection from the Delta variant of the Coronavirus during the first three months after vaccination.The vaccine is 75% effective among subjects under the age of 60. Efficacy of Sputnik Light as a booster against Delta variant for other vaccines will be close to the efficacy against the Delta variant of the Sputnik V vaccine – more than 83% against infection and more than 94% against hospitalisation.Interim results of a study in Argentina on combining Sputnik Light and vaccines produced by AstraZeneca, Sinopharm, Moderna and Cansino have shown Sputnik Light is an “effective universal booster”, the statement said.Results of a separate joint clinical trial of a combination of Sputnik Light with the AstraZeneca jab have demonstrated it “induces strong immunity and has a high safety profile”.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/sputnik-light-vaccine-likely-to-be-authorised-in-india-soon-rdif-101638818389671.html
07-12-2021||India||Congress and BJP both are our enemies, no talks of any alliance for now: Kumaraswamy||JD(S) leader H D Kumaraswamy on Monday termed both BJP and Congress as equal enemies of his party, as he tried to clarify that the saffron party leader B S Yediyurappa has only sought “cooperation” and not an alliance during the upcoming legislative council polls in Karnataka.Stating that he would reveal JD(S)’ stand on Yediyurappa’s request for support to BJP candidates in the seats, where the regional party is not contesting, on Tuesday, the former chief minister said there has been no official request in this regard from the saffron party itself.“Tomorrow (Tuesday), I will hold a press conference in Bengaluru where I will speak on all issues. I want to bring one thing to your notice, I have nowhere said that I will have an alliance with another party till now. Our national president (H D Deve Gowda) has only said that Kumaraswamy will decide on what to do, where we have not put our candidate,” Kumaraswamy said in response to a question.Speaking to reporters here, he said neither Congress nor BJP has sought JD(S)’ support so far, and only Yediyurappa has a couple of times appealed for support, where the regional party has not fielded its candidates.“Yediyurappa has also clarified that there is no alliance between BJP and JD(S) and that he has only sought for cooperation in this (council) election...alliance means openly having understanding and going for elections, here he (Yediyurappa) has sought for cooperation, where we don’t have our candidates,” he added.There is a heightened buzz over a possible pact between the ruling BJP and JD(S) for the coming legislative council polls, following full display of bonhomie between Prime Minister Narendra Modi and the regional party’s patriarch Deve Gowda, during their meeting in Delhi last week.The biennial election to the Karnataka Legislative Council from 20 Local Authorities’ Constituencies for 25 seats, due to the retirement of sitting members, would be held on December 10.State BJP strongman and former Chief Minister Yediyurappa has a couple of times openly sought JD(S) support in the seats where the regional party is not contesting.The JD(S) has fielded only six candidates, while the BJP and Congress are contesting in 20 seats each.Further noting that BJP is giving a fight to his party at six seats where JD(S) has fielded its candidates, Kumaraswamy said, “They (BJP) are not transferring their votes to us in this election. They want to defeat us in the seats wherever we are contesting, including Mandya.””They are also my enemies...Congress and BJP both are equal enemies to our party,” he said, as he clarified that officially BJP as a party, has not sought support.Yediyurappa too on Sunday had clarified that there was no alliance with JD(S)”There is no alliance with any party...Wherever our candidates are fielded, there we will work day and night, where JD(S) don’t have a candidate we have sought for support and nothing else, there is no need for anyone to have any misconception on this,” he had said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/congress-and-bjp-both-are-our-enemies-no-talks-of-any-alliance-for-nowkumaraswamy-101638818331517.html
07-12-2021||India||Bommai politically weak, says Shivakumar||The Karnataka Congress on Monday called chief minister Basavaraj Bommai “weak”, saying that he faces opposition from his partymen and has been unable to contain the growing dissent and disgruntlement within the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP).“Politically he has become weak, their minister says that (Murugesh) Nirani will become CM,” DK Shivakumar, the president of the Karnataka Pradesh Congress Committee (KPCC), said on Monday.The statements come as news of simmering dissent within the BJP has come to the fore, with senior cabinet ministers openly endorsing their colleagues for the top job.Rural Development and Panchayat Raj minister KS Eshwarappa on November 30 said that Nirani can become Karnataka chief minister in the future, adding that Bommai will not be replaced.The conflicting views, people aware of the developments said, were part of a growing divide within the saffron outfit ever since Bommai, who is relatively a new entrant into the BJP, was picked to replace BS Yediyurappa in late July this year.The likes of Basanagouda Patil (Yatnal), the firebrand legislator from Bijapura, has continued to make contentious remarks and even hint at “big changes” in the coming months. That action is yet to be taken against leaders like Yatnal has forced the impression that the party high command has given them a free hand just like it did against Yediyurappa.While most of the senior state leadership kept their composure despite the contentious decision, the endorsement of Bommai by Amit Shah in early September as the face of the 2023 assembly elections in the state, stirred the nest further.Bommai has been termed a “puppet” of the national party leadership by analysts, the opposition and his partymen.On his part, Bommai has continued to consult his predecessor, Yediyurappa, on every major decision, and the cabinet he currently leads, are candidates chosen by the latter.Bommai has been unable to convince the national leadership to expand his cabinet to quell some of this dissent.“Right now we are engaged in (the) legislative council poll battle and preparations for the Belagavi session of the legislature. As for ministry expansion, future courses of action would be based on suggestions from our senior leadership,” Bommai said on Monday in Hubballi, about 450 kms from Bengaluru.Facing a slew of charges of corruption, including the Bitcoin scandal and a section of contractors writing to Prime Minister Narendra Modi on “commission” sought by ministers, MLAs and officials even before securing tenders and beginning to work, Bommai has been at the receiving end in recent times.The loss at Hanagal in his home district of Haveri in the October 30 bypolls has also weighed on the chief minister, who has been accused of stirring up communal sentiments to deflect attention away from him.The Christian community in the state is protesting against the new chief minister and his decision to introduce a bill to ban forcible religious conversions, and a survey of all churches in the state, which the minority group has said will spoil the peace and harmony.The rise of hate crimes, communal clashes and moral policing is also attributed to Bommai and his provocative statements.The BJP will try harder now to win seats in the December 10 MLC polls and has even indicated a possible alliance with the Janata Dal (Secular) or JD(S) to gain control over the upper house of the state legislature.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/bommai-politically-weak-saysshivakumar-101638818330125.html
07-12-2021||India||Bengaluru: Muslim man alleges assault in police station; probe on||Bengaluru police have ordered a probe against a sub-inspector attached to the Byatarayanapura police station after a 24-year-old Muslim man alleged that he was assaulted by the police and was forced to drink urine.In a video, the man alleged that the policemen also cut his beard inside the police station. HT has verified the video and withheld the victim’s name.“They hit me with a cricket bat, they cut beard and made me drink urine when asked for water. When I told them not to cut my beard because it was part of my faith, they said the police station was not my religious centre. They hit me more than 30 times with a cricket bat,” said the man.  According to the family of the man, he was picked up over a quarrel with the neighbour and was kept in the police station, without filing a case against him, for two days. In the video, the man named a sub-inspector Harish and said he was accompanied by a police constable. “They told me that they file a kidnapping case against me and send me to jail for two years,” he said. The victim’s family members said that he was admitted to Victoria Hospital after the attack and was discharged on Monday. They also showed images of bruises on his back, thighs, and other parts of the body.Deputy commissioner of police (West) Sanjeev Patil said that a probe by an assistant commissioner of police (ACP) ranked officer has been ordered and based on his report further action will be taken. The sub-inspector has not been placed under suspension, said an official familiar with developments. The police sub-inspector didn’t answer HT’s call for comment. In a similar incident, the Criminal Investigation Department (CID) of the Karnataka Police had arrested a police sub-inspector for allegedly forcing a Dalit man to drink urine in September. Arjun Horakeri, a sub-inspector of police posted with Gonibeedu police station, was produced before a court in Chikkamagaluru last Thursday, and an additional district and sessions judge remanded him to 14 days judicial custody.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/bengaluru-muslim-man-alleges-assault-in-police-station-probe-on-101638818270785.html
07-12-2021||India||A decision on strict Covid-19 measures after meeting: Karnataka CM Bommai||Karnataka chief minister Basavaraj Bommai on Monday said that the government would decide on imposing stricter measures to counter Covid-19, such as restricting occupancy at malls, theatres, and other public places to 50 %, after a meeting with the medical experts and other departments. Following the detection of two cases of Omicron variant in the state and reports of multiple clusters across the state, the health department officials had put forth several suggestions to impose strict guidelines to control the number of cases.The health department increased testing in many districts after several schools, and college students reported Covid positive in the past two weeks. “We have received all recommendations, so would be put before the expert committee. We will discuss all issues, such as Omicron and Delta (variants of Covid), during this meeting. Once they (experts) give their opinion, we will take further action,” chief minister Bommai said.Karnataka health minister Dr K Sudhakar said that the five contacts of a doctor who tested positive for the Omicron variant are asymptomatic. Three primary contacts – immediate family members of the doctor – and two secondary contacts, who tested positive for Covid-19, have been in isolation and under observation at a government facility over the past week. The genomic sequencing reports for the five contacts of the doctor are yet to be provided to the Karnataka health department, the minister said. “There are no symptoms in the contacts of the person infected with the new variant. They are not facing any complications or severity (of the disease). They are admitted to the Bowring hospital, and I am in touch with the director of the hospital,” the health minister said. “The mild nature of the infection in the contacts may be because they are fully vaccinated against Covid-19. This is the reason why we believe there will not be severity in those who are vaccinated. Therefore we are asking people to complete two doses of vaccination,” Dr Sudhakar added. He added that the state achieved 93% first dose coverage, and 64 % of the eligible population has received the second dose. The state has 7 million vaccine doses in reserve at present. “We do not have to be too concerned with this variant. We handled the Delta variant, which had a higher level of severity. If we compare Omicron to Delta, then we are not seeing reports of severity of disease anywhere in the world. The only concern is the rapid transmissibility of the variant – to prevent this, we need people to be vaccinated,” he added. Karnataka and Bengaluru reported 301 and 162 new Covid-19 cases on Monday, taking the active caseload to 7,067 and 5,179, respectively. While the state reported seven deaths due to the infections, taking the toll to 38,287, its capital city saw three Covid-19 related fatalities on the day, pushing its toll to 16,348, according to the daily health bulletin.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/a-decision-on-strict-covid-19-measures-after-meetingkarnatakacmbommai-101638818269654.html
07-12-2021||India||New cluster emerges as 101 test positive in Karnataka school||A total of 101 people, including 90 students of a school in Chikkamagaluru district tested positive for Covid-19, health officials said on Monday. The new cluster has been identified at Jawahar Navodaya School at Seegodu near Balehonnur. A sample of 418 people, including students and staff, were tested after three students and four staff members had contracted Covid-19 on Friday, health department officials said.All students at the schools are asymptomatic, said the officials, who added that all measures have been taken to monitor them.The incident comes days after a medical college in Dharwad turned into a hotspot with over 84students testing positive for Covid-19 after attending a cultural event. Following this, similar clusters were reported in Bengaluru, Tumakuru, Hassan and Mysuru districts.“The infected students and employees have been quarantined in a part of the hostel. The school has classes 1 to 12, with more than 450 resident students on the rolls. Both teaching and non-teaching employees will stay on the campus,” said Chikkamagaluru deputy commissioner KN Ramesh.Karnataka primary and secondary education minister BC Nagesh on Monday said the deputy commissioner is personally monitoring the situation at Jawahar Navodaya School. He has organised for ambulances and additional medical staff if needed, said the minister.The minister also said that the government is ready to close schools if Covid-19 cases in the state see an increase. Talking to reporters in Bengaluru, the minister said that the government is open to cancelling examinations and closing schools, however, the Technical Advisory Committee (TAC), who are closing monitoring the coronavirus in the state has not recommended such requirement, he added.“We will not backtrack if a need arises to stop exams and schools. However, in the present situation, all the experts think there is no problem. If required, we will stop the exams. However, the Standard Operating Procedure is maintained very strictly in the exams because we make sitting arrangements maintaining physical distance,” said the minister.Talking to reporters on Monday, Nagesh said that the Covid clusters have been reported in residential schools in the state, and other schools have reported no such clusters. “We have not reported any cases in standard 1 to 10. One case was a report in a PU (Pre-university) college, and rest, including the clusters reported yesterday (Sunday), are in residential schools,” he said.Regarding the cases in residential schools, the minister said that he has called for a meeting with the principal secretary of the education department. “We will discuss what new steps have to be taken to control the cases in residential schools. I have also spoken to deputy commissioner’s some districts regarding the same. Also, senior education department officials have been asked to visit residential schools in their jurisdiction and take stock of the situation,” he said.Nagesh asked people not to panic as it will impact the academic activities of children. “There is no need for people to panic because this year, we started regular schools after a year of lockdown. In case schools are shut again, then it will be difficult to bring back children to the classes,” Nagesh said.He, however, assured parents that the education department will take stringent measures in case it is felt that the Covid-19 situation is going to impact children’s health.The statement comes as several private schools have suspended offline classes due to an increase in the number of clusters in educational institutes and the scare over the new variant, the office-bearers of the schools’ association said. M Srinivasan, president of Management of Independent CBSE Schools’ Association (MICSA), Karnataka, said that over half of their member schools that had resumed offline classes have reverted to offline classes. “There is a fear among parents, so these schools have gone back to online teaching and they are also holding their exams online,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/new-cluster-emerges-as-101-test-positive-in-karnataka-school-101638818209591.html
07-12-2021||India||After deputy CM, Uttar Pradesh minister calls for new temple in Mathura||Days after Uttar Pradesh deputy chief minister Keshav Prasad Maurya pitch for a grand temple at Sri Krishna Janmabhoomi in Mathura, another cabinet minister and Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) MLA from Mathura, Laxmi Narayan Chaudhary on Monday advocated for the same, saying Prime Minister Narendra Modi and chief minister Yogi Adityanath will make it a reality.“If a temple in the name of Sri Krishna will not be built in Mathura, would it be built in Lahore or Rawalpindi in Pakistan? Prime Minister Narendra Modi and chief minister Yogi Adityanath will jointly make the grand temple at Sri Krishna Janmabhoomi a reality, but at the appropriate time,” the state minister of dairy development, animal husbandry and fisheries said in a statement.He said the grand temple of Ramlalla in Ayodhya was becoming a reality only after due compliance of law and procedure. “Similarly, an apt opportunity would surface for the creation of grand temple of Lord Sri Krishna at the janmabhoomi site in Mathura,” Chaudhary added.“…Those who are against such temple should say so and get their DNA tested to prove that they are actually descendent of Sri Krishna,” Chaudhary told HT.Earlier, Maurya stirred the Hindutva pot in the poll-bound Uttar Pradesh last week as he tweeted that construction of a grand temple in Ayodhya and Kashi was underway and Mathura would be next.Backing Maurya’s statement, Chaudhary said, “Keshav Prasad Maurya is a senior leader of our party and his statement in favour of a temple of Lord Sri Krishna at janmabhoomi site in Mathura is totally justified.”He added: “I hope the temple at Sri Krishna janmabhoomi site will be more magnificent than the one coming up at Ayodhya.”Rashtiya Lok Dal spokesperson Kaptan Singh said the BJP was sensing defeat in the forthcoming state assembly elections. “BJP raised such issues only at time of elections to divert attention from real issues. They have nothing to say on real issues,” he added.
07-12-2021||India||17 students molested in 2 UP schools, owner of one arrested: Police||The owner of one school in Purkaji in the Muzaffarnagar district of Uttar Pradesh was arrested on Monday and the police are looking for the owner of another school, after complaints by parents that 17 Class X girl students was asked to stay overnight in the schools, citing lab work that they needed to complete, drugged, and molested.The incident occurred on November 20 and it was exposed only after the chief of a village brought the incident to the notice of the SSP of Muzaffafarnagar, Abhishek Yadav on December 4.SSP Yadav deputed SP ( City) Armitage Vijauvargiya and Circle Officer of Sadar area Krishan Kumar Bishnoi to verify the charges. The officials visited the schools and villages on Saturday to enquire and verify the charges.Subsequently, SSP Yadav sent SHO of Purkaji , Vinod Kumar Singh to police lines as punishment. “ He was sent to police line on charges of considerate delay in initiating action in the case”, said CO Bishnoi who added that two parents have complained about the incident in the schools and a case under section 354 of IPC and POCSO act has been registered against school owners Yogesh Kumar and Arjun Singh.“ Yogesh Kumar has been arrested and raids are being conducted to arrest the other accused”, said Bishnoi. He added that investigation is underway to verify the charges as parents of remaining 15 girls have not complained.The two parents allege that the girls were called in the school for practical (lab) work, asked to stay the night to complete the practical, drugged , and then molested.All girls belong to poor families and the two parents claim they (the girls) were threatened about the consequences if they spoke up. Later few girls shared the incident with their parents and the village chief brought the incident to the notice of the SSP.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/17-students-molested-in-2-up-schools-owner-of-one-arrested-police-101638817309614.html
07-12-2021||India||Prime Minister Narendra Modi to unveil multiple projects for eastern Uttar Pradesh in Gorakhpur today||GORAKHPUR: Prime Minister Narendra Modi will dedicate multiple projects, including a fertiliser factory and an All India Institute of Medical Sciences (AIIMS), worth over ₹10,000 crore to the people of eastern Uttar Pradesh during his visit to Gorakhpur on Tuesday, people familiar with the development said on Monday. PM Modi will also inaugurate three high-standard laboratories set up by the Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR) at the BRD Medical College to test samples for the encephalitis virus (earlier samples were sent to Pune labs), said leaders of the Bharatiya Janata Party.The PM’s visit to the region in the poll-bound state assumes significance as in the 2017 state elections, the BJP had managed to win 115 seats from Gorakhpur, Basti and Varanasi divisions in the eastern Uttar Pradesh.“The PM’s visit to Gorakhpur will infuse fresh energy in party workers who are on a mission to ensure a second term for chief minister Yogi Adityanath ji,” said Satyendra Sinha, BJP spokesperson. The party has arranged several buses to ferry people from far-flung areas to Manbela Ground, the venue for the PM’s programme.In Gorakhpur, Modi will inaugurate a fertiliser factory worth ₹8,600 crore and an AIIMS that has been built at a cost of ₹1,010 crore.Chief minister Yogi Adityanath, who has been camping in the city since Friday to oversee the preparations for the PM’s programme, drove to the fertiliser factory and the rally ground to take stock of the security arrangements.As many as 53 battalions of paramilitary forces, including the PAC, the RAF, 4,000 policemen, two DIGs, 12 SSPs and 24 SPs, have been deployed to ensure tight security arrangements during the PM’s visit. Besides, the region close to the venue has been marked as a ‘no flying zone’ and CCTVs cameras have been installed to monitor activities, said Gorakhpur SSP Vipin Tada.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/prime-minister-narendra-modi-to-unveil-multiple-projects-for-eastern-uttar-pradesh-in-gorakhpur-today-101638817189501.html
07-12-2021||India||Mercury dips after fresh snowfall in hills||Srinagar/Shimla: The mercury plummeted by 5-6° Celsius at several places in the north-western Himalayas on Monday as several parts of Jammu and Kashmir, Himachal Pradesh and Uttarakhand received fresh snowfall, officials familiar with the matter said. Weather office said that snowfall in the higher reaches would cause temperature dips in the plains of the northern India in the next few days with temperature likely to fall below 10 degrees Celsius in the national Capital by December 9, when there could be another round of snow in the mountains.In Kashmir Valley, Gulmarg witnessed the coldest night of the season as mercury dipped to minus 7 degrees Celsius following the light snowfall in the meadow on Sunday. Weather office said that 12.2 cm of snow was recorded in Gulmarg during the spell.“As expected, weather has improved and is mainly clear in all the districts,” said Sonam Lotus, director of Jammu and Kashmir’s meteorological department. He added that cold conditions are likely to continue for some more days.Srinagar received rains on Sunday while snow fell on mountainous areas like Gulmarg in north Kashmir and Shopian in south Kashmir. Moderate snowfall was also reported at Kargil, Zanskar and in higher reaches of Leh in the Union territory of Ladakh. Jammu received moderate rainfall.“There is a possibility of light rain and snow around December 8 and 9 at some places. Other than that the weather will mostly remain dry. Overall, no significant weather is expected for the next 10 days in both UTs,” Lotus said.Temperatures dipped by about five degrees Celsius on Monday after several parts of Himachal Pradesh, including Shimla, Manali and tribal districts of Kinnaur and Lahaul and Spiti received fresh snow. Around 130 roads in the state were blocked because of snow. Shimla deputy commissioner Aditya Negi said that 98% roads were opened for vehicular traffic by afternoon.The hills around Shimla received season’s first snowfall, although mild, which melted by late Monday morning, the local weather office said.Tourist destinations of Chitkul, Sangla and Kalpa in Kinnaur district received 15.5 cm, 7.6 cm and 6 cm of snow while remote Dodra Kawar and Chopal received 30 cm and 6 cm of snow, respectively.Rohtang Pass and Atal Tunnel recorded heavy snowfall of 75 cm and 45 cm, respectively, while Koksar, Darcha and Keylong in Lahaul and Spiti recorded 45 cm, 30 cm and 20 cm of fresh snow, disrupting normal life in the region, said a statement by the Himachal disaster management agency.In Uttarakhand, the mountain peaks of Chamoli, Rudraprayag and Uttarkashi districts were covered with snow, which started on Sunday evening and continued through Monday.The Himalayan temples of Kedarnath, Badrinath, Hemkund Sahib, Gangotri and Yamunotri also received heavy snowfall, according to the local weather office. “The snow is one-foot high in Badrinath while Nanda Devi National Park, Valley of Flowers and Kedarnath Musk Deer Park were also covered under snow,” Chamoli’s disaster management officer Nandkishore Joshi said.Many places of tourist interest in Uttarkashi district, including Kharsali, Radi Top, Jankichatti, Ranachatti, Dayara, Dodital, Harsil and Mukhba also received snow.The snowfall in higher reaches resulted in about 4 degrees Celsius dip in the maximum temperature at most places in the state, said Dehradun weather office in its daily bulletin. Dehradun recorded maximum temperature of 21 degrees Celsius on Monday as against 25.1 degrees Celsius on the previous day while Tehri and Mukteshwar recorded the maximum temperature of 11 degrees Celsius each as against Sunday’s 15.6 degrees Celsius and 15.3 degrees Celsius, respectively, the IMD website said.(With agency inputs)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/mercury-dips-after-fresh-snowfall-in-hills-101638817070873.html
07-12-2021||India||Bhima Koregaon case: SC to hear NIA plea against Sudha Bharadwaj’s bail today||The Supreme Court will on Tuesday hear a petition filed by the National Investigation Agency (NIA) challenging the default bail granted by the Bombay high court to activist Sudha Bharadwaj, an accused in the 2018 Bhima Koregaon violence case.The NIA moved the top court soon after the HC allowed default bail to Bharadwaj on December 1 and asked the activist to approach a special NIA court on December 8 for bail conditions to be set.On Monday, solicitor general Tushar Mehta mentioned the matter before a bench headed by Chief Justice of India (CJI) NV Ramana, requesting an urgent listing. He informed the court that the matter required to be heard before Wednesday, when the bail order will take effect.“The matter pertains to grant of default bail and this order will be in effect from December 8, so this case needs to be heard,” Mehta said.The CJI asked Mehta to share the case papers and said he will consider listing the case. Later in the day, the matter was listed for Tuesday before a three-judge bench headed by justice UU Lalit and also comprising justices S Ravindra Bhat and Bela Trivedi.Several activists, lawyers and authors are facing charges under the Unlawful Activities Prevention Act (UAPA) for participating in an alleged Maoist conspiracy to trigger violence on January 1, 2018, in the Bhima Koregaon village of Maharashtra’s Pune district.The activists are accused of delivering inflammatory speeches during an event called Elgar Parishad organised in Pune on December 31, 2017. The activists have denied all charges and accused the prosecution of planting evidence.Bharadwaj, who is currently lodged at Byculla women’s prison, argued that sessions judge K D Vadane, who granted Pune Police a 90-day extension on November 26, 2018, to file the charge sheet, did not have jurisdiction to do so as only a special NIA court could hear UAPA cases.On December 1, a division bench of justices S S Shinde and N J Jamadar granted default bail to Bharadwaj but rejected the applications of eight co-accused facing terrorism and conspiracy charges for allegedly fomenting violence in Bhima Koregaon in 2018.This was the first time that a person accused in the high-profile case was granted default bail, which can be given if a person is jailed for more than 90 days without a charge sheet. One of the other accused, poet Varavara Rao, is out on medical bail, and a second accused, Jesuit priest Stan Swamy, died in July.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/bhima-koregaon-violence-case-sc-to-hear-nia-plea-against-sudha-bharadwaj-s-bail-today-101638816889515.html
07-12-2021||India||Tamil Nadu opens shutters of Mullaperiyar dam, irks Kerala||Idukki (Kerala): Tamil Nadu opened nine shutters of the Mullaperiyar dam on Monday night in view of the rising water level in the reservoir and shut down three of them after 10 pm, the Idukki district administration said.Kerala water resources minister Roshy Augustine rushed to Idukki after many areas in downstream got inundated. “The decision of the Tamil Nadu was irresponsible,” the minister said.The district administration, in a statement, said all nine shutters of the dam, which were initially opened at 7.45 pm by 60 centimetres each, were raised by 120 cm (1.20m) to release 12,654.09 cusecs of water. Thereafter, three of the shutters were shut down at 10 pm and six were kept open to release 8,380.50 cusecs of water, it added.The Tamil Nadu authorities had raised the shutters to 120 cm after the water level of the dam reached 141.90 feet at 8.30 pm.This is first time nine shutters of Mullaperiyar are getting opened at night. According to district officials, more than 100 families have been shifted from Idukki.Augustine said the issue of water being released at night would be raised before the Supreme Court. He added that he will be present at Idukki to help with the rescue efforts and to persuade people to evacuate to camps wherever necessary.The Mullaperiyar dam, built in 1895 on the Periyar river in Idukki district of Kerala, is operated by the Tamil Nadu government for its irrigation and power needs. Kerala has been insisting on building a new dam, citing safety concerns, but Tamil Nadu is against it, saying the present structure is strong.Meanwhile, the Idukki district administration sounded an orange alert as the water level in the reservoir there touched 2,401.12 feet.The authorities also expect further rise in water level in Idukki reservoir due to the excess flow of water to it from the Mullaperiyar dam.They said that if the water in the reservoir rises excessively, one shutter of Cheruthoni dam will be raised at 6 am on Tuesday from 40 cm to 150 cm.The district collector said that people in the area below the Cheruthoni dam and on both sides of the Periyar should be extremely careful.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/tamil-nadu-opens-shutters-of-mullaperiyar-dam-irks-kerala-101638816835856.html
07-12-2021||India||Sarada Menon, India’s first woman psychiatrist, dies at 98 in Chennai||Sarada Menon, considered India’s first woman psychiatrist, passed away at the age of 98 at her home in Chennai on Sunday. She has been a recipient of several awards, including the Padma Bhusan in 1992 for her work in the field of mental health. Born in Mangaluru, Menon graduated from the Madras Medical College and trained in psychiatry in Bengaluru’s NIMHANS. She became the first woman psychiatrist in the country when she began working in 1959 at what is now the Institute of Mental Health (previously government Kilpauk mental hospital) in Chennai. She held the post of superintendent of the institute for more than 18 years. Soon after her retirement, Menon founded the Schizophrenia Research Foundation (SCARF) in 1984. SCARF has been affiliated with the World Health Organisation (WHO) as a collaborating centre for mental health research and training since 1996, and it continues to be a premier NGO offering treatment and rehabilitation for those with mental illness and support for their caregivers. She stepped down from her position in 1995 and remained an advisor. Psychiatrist Dr R Thara, who took over as SCARF’s director and was among the founding health professionals, said, “She brought in terrific changes.” Menon changed it from an asylum into a place where she recruited volunteers and social workers and was instrumental in ensuring there were psychiatric outpatient wards in government hospitals. Dr Thara says late former chief minister J Jayalalithaa held Menon in high regard, which helped SCARF receive an annual grant from the state government and land to construct SCARF’s daycare centre and residential facilities. “We got together in 1984 and started SCARF. Her primary motivation was the rehabilitation of the mentally ill which she felt was a neglected aspect,” says Thara. “The other was a stigma. She felt one way of beating stigma was by employing persons who have recovered – the mentally ill. She was also particular that families need support, so we simultaneously work with them by providing information and emotional support.”Those who have worked with Menon say that she continued to actively monitor patients even until recently. Dr Lakshmi Vijayakumar, the founder of SNEHA Foundation, a suicide prevention helpline and a student of Menon’s, says that she attended a meeting in Chennai three months ago to be up to speed on the latest research on the gut microbiome in the mental health field. “It was mind-boggling. She was 98 and still wanted to learn. She asked all relevant questions at the meeting,” says Dr Vijayakumar. She adds that she didn’t enjoy psychiatry until Menon took a class. “Her class was an eye-opener for me. Most psychiatrists in Chennai are her students. She taught us in college even after her retirement.”Condoling her death, Tamil Nadu chief minister M K Stalin recalled Menon had studied in the Madras Medical College. “Her demise is a loss to the medical profession,” he said in a statement. 
07-12-2021||India||Congress forms panels for elections in Punjab||The Congress on Monday made key appointments in its election team for the coming assembly elections, seeking to bring on board all leaders in its faction-ridden Punjab unit. Party president Sonia Gandhi named former state president Sunil Jakhar as chairman of the campaign committee, Rajya Sabha member Ambika Soni as chairperson of the election coordination committee, and Partap Singh Bajwa as chairman of the manifesto committee. The party also nominated Jakhar as a member of the screening committee, which will pick candidates; the other members of the panel are Ajay Maken, its chairman, and Chandan Yadav and Krishna Allavaru. Harish Chaudhary, in charge of state affairs, Navjot Singh Sidhu, state party head, and chief minister Charanjit Singh Channi as legislative party leader have been named as ex-officio members of the screening committee (including Jakhar). The appointments were announced in a statement signed by Congress general secretary KC Venugopal. Jakhar was upset after the September reshuffle when Channi was made chief minister. Jakhar was among those reported to be in the running to replace Captain Amarinder Singh but the party made a surprise pick, Channi. The head of the party’s Punjab unit, Sidhu, whose appointment set the state for Singh’s exit, was also reported to be in the running. “It is to be seen how the leaders, particularly Sidhu and Jakhar, who have been opposed to each other, will coordinate particularly at the time of declaration of candidates for the elections,” a party leader said on condition of anonymity. The upcoming weeks will be an acid test of the party’s ability to keep its flock together, especially when  Singh has floated an outfit to contest the polls along with the Bharatiya Janata Party and the Akali Dal’s breakaway faction. 
07-12-2021||India||Protests over suspension of 12 Rajya Sabha MPs stall House||Opposition parties in the Rajya Sabha on Monday were unrelenting in their demand for reversing the decision of the House to suspend 12 MPs for the duration of the ongoing winter session from the Upper House for creating a “ruckus” during the monsoon session in August. Protests by the opposition MPs led to five adjournments, with the House clocking only 45 minutes of proceedings.The Opposition, in the process, even let go of a debate on price rise and a chance to ask questions to union home minister Amit Shah on the Nagaland killings. While some Opposition leaders justified their stand, others suggested that disruption shouldn’t always overshadow debate on raging issues. Congress and DMK members walked out of the House as no supplementary questions could be taken on Shah’s reply.During question hour in the Rajya Sabha , which was being held amid sloganeering by the opposition, Trinamool Congress leader Derek O’ Brien, while posing a question to Jal Shakti minister Gajendra Shekhawat, said, “I want to ask the minister why has democracy dried up in Parliament.”This prompted leader of the house Piyush Goyal to criticise the opposition for creating ruckus in the House. The opposition objected to the minister’s statement and the House was adjourned from 12.18 pm till 2 pm.Earlier, chairman M Venkaiah Naidu refused to take up the issue of suspension for discussion and informed the House that home minister Amit Shah would be making a statement on the civilian killings in Nagaland. The opposition MPs, however, raised slogans, which led to an adjournment within 10 minutes of the House convening at 11 am.When the House eventually reassembled at 2 pm, the protests continued. Deputy chairman Harivansh Narayan Singh, who was in the chair, urged members to take up the short-duration discussion on price rise that had been demanded by several opposition parties. With no end to the logjam, the House was again adjourned till 3 pm within three minutes of assembling.At 3 pm, when the House assembled again, finance minister Nirmala Sitharaman criticised the opposition for not participating in a discussion that they had sought and blaming the government for not having discussions.“Let me humbly submit to the opposition leaders. This topic is decided by them... The opposition wanted to discuss this and the government has agreed to have this discussion. If they are talking about democracy, they asked for it and we have agreed,” she said. “Shouldn’t they have been discussing it... Isn’t that democracy, isn’t that the spirit of this House and often we are accused that the Government is running away from debate?”Leader of the Opposition Mallikarjun Kharge said he was ready for debate but suspension should be revoked. “I will tell how the prices have gone up. I am ready to speak but how can I speak in the din?” Kharge said.Goyal also blamed the opposition for defending the “indefensible”. He said it was a sad day for Indian democracy that the opposition wanted this discussion but did not participate.“When the government is ready to do this, they are trying to defend the indefensible act of their colleagues, who are not even feeling any remorse for the sacrilege, the word that the chairman used, the sacrilege they did of democracy. Now the leader of the opposition claims that he wants to start the discussion and asks you to bring the House in order… This is like playing a game,” he said.The House was subsequently adjourned till 4 pm within eight minutes of convening. It was adjourned for the fifth and final time at 4.06 pm after Shah made a statement in the House on the civilian deaths in Nagaland.Trinamool’s floor leader Derek O’Brien said “It was artificially normal in the last two days. You can’t deprive 12 MPs from participating in the debate.” He argued that the Opposition allowed the House to run uninterrupted last Thursday and Friday but the government didn’t show magnanimity and push for revocation of suspension of 12 MPs. These MPs were have been suspended for the entire session for their unruly behavior in the last session.RJD MP Manoj Kumar Jha, who lost his chance to question Shah on the Nagaland situation, indicated that the strategy would not remain same. “We have an evolving strategy that depends on the situation in the day. We are meeting tomorrow. Everybody was distraught on Monday that 12 Opposition MPs still remain suspended.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/protests-over-suspension-of-12-rajya-sabha-mps-stall-house-101638816469585.html
07-12-2021||India||MGP announces alliance with TMC ahead of Mamata visit||The Maharashtrawadi Gomantak Party (MGP) in Goa will have a pre-poll alliance with the Trinamool Congress (TMC) after “encouraging preliminary talks” between the two parties, MGP chief Deepak Dhavalikar said.“Preliminary talks have been held. We apprised the central committee of these talks. Our central committee has unanimously passed a resolution to align with the TMC,” Dhavalikar said at a media briefing.“We will fight the 2022 assembly elections in alliance with the Trinamool Congress. We had decided that we will go with the party that agrees to our demands, which the TMC did,” the MGP leader said.The MGP had won three out of the 40 assembly seats in the 2017 state elections, but its two legislators later defected to the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP), the ruling party in the coastal state, leaving only Sudin Dhavalikar, the elder of the two Dhavalikar siblings, as the party’s representative in the state’s legislature.The TMC also confirmed that the two parties had reached an agreement to fight the elections together.“With this we believe that for the people of Goa who were looking for an alternative to get rid of the BJP government they should look no further. This alliance between the MGP and the Trinamool is a wonderful blend of both the Trinamool’s fighting spirit and the MGP’s long rooted history in Goa and we believe that this union will take Goa forward,” TMC MP and Goa in-charge Mahua Moitra told reporters at a press conference here on Monday evening.Goa is heading to polls in February-March next year.MGP held talks with several parties, including the Congress, the Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) and the TMC to form an alliance against the BJP, Deepak Dhavalikar said. “But as time passed, it was important for us to make a decision. There are other parties that could join our alliance later,” he said. “The BJP has been trying to woo our candidates, making it important for us to take a quick decision. We have to work to bring a new direction in the state.”The MGP initially held talks with the Delhi chief minister Arvind Kejriwal-led AAP after Sudin Dhavalikar expressed willingness to explore the possibility of an alliance with the ruling party in the national Capital. However, for reasons that he is yet to spell out, the MGP chief said the talks with the AAP stalled and remained inconclusive.“We may formally announce our alliance with the TMC during Mamata Banerjee’s upcoming state visit,” he said.West Bengal chief minister and TMC chief Mamata Banerjee is scheduled to visit Goa for her second visit, after her first last month, on December 13.The MGP’s decision is seen as a blow to the BJP, which has been attempting to woo the regional party given that the two parties largely battle for votes from the same communities.Goa BJP chief Sadanand Shet Tanavade, however, said the MGP’s decision was not a setback.“The talks were being held by our party’s national leadership. Nonetheless, the state unit remains fully prepared to fight the elections on our own. If there are others who are willing to come along, we will take them along or else we will fight against them,” Tanavade said. “We have the strength to fight elections on our own even if everyone else joins forces against us. We have proved this in the zilla parishad (district council) and local municipality polls.” .With the TMC and the MGP coming together and the Congress and the Goa Forward Party forming an alliance, it leaves the AAP without any alliance partners for now, besides the BJP, which is also facing a situation where it might have to go solo in the state polls.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/mgpannounces-alliance-with-tmc-ahead-of-mamata-visit-101638816417423.html
07-12-2021||India||Supreme Court dismisses plea seeking more teeth for dowry law||Change must come from within on how women should be treated, the Supreme Court said on Monday as it sharply criticised the practice of dowry but dismissed a petition seeking to add more teeth to penal provisions in the country’s anti-dowry law.Asking the petitioners to approach the Law Commission for initiating reforms, the top court was categorical that such reforms fell within the realm of policymaking that restrained courts from stepping in. The Law Commission is a body of experts constituted by the Centre, from time to time, to examine amendments to existing laws, recommend redundant laws and even take up research on new and emerging fields of law. It is headed by either a judge of Supreme Court or chief justice of a high court.The observations were made while dealing with a petition by Kerala-based social activist Sabu Stephen and two others, including a woman lawyer who was a victim of dowry harassment.The petition argued by advocate VK Biju said that although dowry death and harassment were made punishable under Section 304B and 498A of the Indian penal code (IPC), and there was a dedicated law in the form of the Dowry Prohibition Act, 1961, young women and girls continued to be subjected to severe torture for dowry.“We are also sensitive to the issue you have raised….the change has to come from within. How we treat a woman and how to treat a woman when she comes into a family are things that are part of a social change,” said the bench of justices Dhananjaya Y Chandrachud and AS Bopanna.The court found the prayers in the petition to be bordering on legislation. These included the appointment of a dowry prohibition officer in every government office, gifts brought by the woman to be registered in her own name till seven years after the wedding, a curriculum for schools, and a premarital course that will require “no dowry certificate” to be mandatory for registration of any marriage, among others.“The reliefs which have been sought in the above terms pertain to the realm of legislative policy. Hence, there are restraints on the jurisdiction of this court under Article 32 of the Constitution to craft remedies which essentially require legislative reforms,” the bench said,Granting liberty to the petitioners to approach the Law Commission of India, the bench said, “A dialogue on considering what measures would support the existing legislation on the subject, can be initiated. It is in this backdrop that we are of the view that it may be appropriate if the Law Commission of India considers the issue in all its perspectives. The petitioners are at liberty to submit a note of research and on all relevant aspects for the benefit of the Law Commission.”The court also noted the dangers in entertaining the prayers made in the petition. For instance, it noted that the idea of having a ‘no dowry certificate’ after a mandatory counselling will work to the disadvantage of women in villages. “India resides not only in Kochi, Delhi or Mumbai, but in small villages. So those getting married have to go to the nearest city to attend the course. And if you say, without the certificate, marriage won’t be registered, it will have serious consequences.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/sc-dismisses-plea-seeking-more-teeth-for-dowry-law-101638816408871.html
07-12-2021||India||Challenges overpowered China ties: Outgoing envoy||Challenges have overpowered the vast opportunities available in China-India ties, outgoing Indian envoy Vikram Misri told state councillor and foreign minister Wang Yi, adding, however, that he hopes that the two sides will be able to resolve the difficulties through engagement.Referring to the ongoing military friction in eastern Ladakh, Misri said that he hoped that a “complete resolution” will be possible soon under the guiding framework provided by Wang and India’s external affairs minister, S Jaishankar.Misri, returning to New Delhi later this month, spoke to Wang during a farewell call held via video link.Misri, according to a statement issued by the Indian embassy in Beijing said bilateral relations comprised both opportunities and challenges, and “...certain challenges since last year had overpowered the vast opportunities in the relationship”.The challenges and difficulties can be overcome through engagement, Misri indicated.Misri told Wang that he was hopeful that with “…continued communication at all levels - political, diplomatic and military, the two sides would be able to resolve the current difficulties and take the relationship forward in a positive direction”.The Indian ambassador highlighted the role played by Jaishankar and Wang “…in issuing appropriate guidance to achieve complete resolution of the current issues at India-China border areas…”Misri said he hoped that “…complete resolution of these issues as per the understanding between the two foreign ministers would be achieved soon, which in turn would help relations to return towards normalisation, which was the common goal of both sides”.Wang, on his part, said he shared Misri’s “…belief that the commonalities far outweighed the differences in our bilateral relations, and expressed confidence that our relations would be able to make progress in the future.”The tenure of Misri, who took over as ambassador in January 2019, has been marked by the ongoing Sino-India friction along the LAC in eastern Ladakh.Indian and Chinese militaries have been locked in a border standoff in eastern Ladakh since May 2020, when a violent clash in the Pangong lake area led to both sides gradually deploying tens of thousands of soldiers as well as heavy weaponry along the border. Several rounds of military and diplomatic talks have only resulted in partial disengagement of troops until now.Soldiers were killed on both sides in a brutal fight on the night of June 15 at Galwan Valley.India has repeatedly and consistently rejected China’s allegations that Indian troops crossed over to the Chinese side of the LAC in eastern Ladakh, asserting that New Delhi has always taken a responsible approach towards border management and maintaining peace and tranquillity in the border areas.In September, Misri urged China to separate the ongoing border tension in eastern Ladakh from the larger boundary dispute, saying the primary concern was to restore peace and tranquillity along the LAC and not resolve the decades-long boundary disagreement.Speaking at a virtual India-China Track-II dialogue last week, Misri said day-to-day affairs along the disputed border should be addressed through existing established agreements and protocols, which are not to be confused with the long-term mechanisms in place for the final resolution.“A serious violation of peace and tranquillity in the border areas naturally requires us to apply our minds based on established agreements, protocols and mechanisms to resolve it,” Misri told the gathering by video link.“As we do so, any attempt to confuse border affairs with the Boundary Question is a disservice to the work of those involved in finding solutions,” he said, indicating that China was doing so by “shifting goalposts”.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/challenges-overpowered-china-ties-outgoing-envoy-101638816289445.html
07-12-2021||India||December 6: What we know about the Omicron variant so far||Binayak DasguptaIn the first half of 2020, the most pressing scientific mystery was why Sars-Cov-2 caused wildly inconsistent symptoms and outcomes. Close to half the infected people would remain asymptomatic and among a minority that was left, it led to severe disease and even death. Before superspreader variants such as Alpha and Delta, it was estimated only about 20% of the cases were responsible for passing the virus on to the remaining 80% of infected people, which meant the uncertainty did not just manifest in symptoms, but also in how it spread.Slowly, some of that mystery was traced back to differences in how people’s immunity reacts – specifically, the early phase of the immune response when the body’s defences spot the intruder and trigger a series of biological responses. For some people, this intricate choreography of immune cells was badly tuned, like an out-of-sync musical ensemble, allowing the virus to keep multiplying and spreading deeper into lung tissue. A panicked overreaction to flush out the intruder follows, and it is this – the hyper-inflammatory stage – that leads to deaths in Covid-19.Immunity, back in focusThe Omicron variant is now bringing the focus back on the immune system. This time, scientists are racing to understand how the virus affects what is known as adaptive immunity, which over time keeps a biological sketch of all pathogens we encounter.This memory is defined by details of a pathogen’s structure to which antibodies attach. These details are called epitopes. When the same pathogen intrudes again, the immune memory of these epitopes is used to create antibodies and killer cells that neutralise the threat.Over time, scientists have identified the Sars-Cov-2’s epitopes. They have also identified how certain variants have changes in these epitopes.A recent analysis by Italian scientists, shared on virological.org, has quantified how four variants known or suspected to be resistant to past immunity – Beta, Gamma, Delta and Omicron – have camouflaged some of these epitopes on the spike protein, the protruding component of the Sars-Cov-2 that plays the main role in infection.Omicron, they contend, has the largest proportion of mutations in epitopes recognised by B cell (which turn into antibodies) at 30.91%, followed by Gamma at 15.34%, Beta 12.98% and Delta at 11.12%. In other words, it means Omicron has over twice the number of changes in a portion of its structure as Gamma and Beta, the two most resistant variants seen till now.The optimistic way to look at this is that close to 70% of the epitopes to which our immune system remembers making antibodies for is unchanged, suggesting there will still be substantial protection, even if that protection is significantly reduced.In addition to B Cells, there are T cells, which turn into killer cells that destroy infected cells and stop them from making more copies of the virus. The Italian scientists said the mutations affect 27.3% of the epitopes recognised by T cells – again, significantly higher than the rest. But close to 73% of the T cell epitopes are still unchanged.Other implicationsThe study also offers some scientific insight into how many of the epitopes they analysed have more implications than just immunity. The authors, from the Polytechnic University of Milan, note in their report that many of the mutations can also impact other traits of the virus, such as transmission, infectivity, virulence, and the stability of the virus’s spike protein itself. Many of the changes they see in Omicron are predicted to heighten or lower these traits.This could, theoretically, explain why the virus can become more transmissible while also becoming less virulent (that is, cause milder disease).Over the coming week, watch this space for two key metrics that are likely to be available: the drop in neutralisation potency of antibodies resulting from vaccination or past infection, and hospitalisation trends.
07-12-2021||India||MP: VHP, Bajrang Dal vandalise school alleging conversions of 8 students||Members of Vishwa Hindu Parishad (VHP) and Bajrang Dal on Monday vandalised a missionary school in Ganjbasoda area of Vidisha following a video showing a prayer meeting being held and news of alleged conversion of eight children in the school went viral on social media, the police said. Police registered a case against four identified VHP members and 50 unidentified members of Bajrang Dal under section 147 (rioting), 148 (rioting armed with a deadly weapon) and 427 (causing damage to the amount more than ₹50) of Indian Penal Code, said BB Sharma, sub-divisional officer of police (SDOP), Ganjbasoda, Vidisha. Four identified persons have been detained by the police. The SDOP said, “The members of the different organisations, including VHP and Bajrang Dal, had announced to hold a protest against an alleged conversion of eight children at St Joseph School. On Monday, people handed over a memorandum to sub-divisional magistrate (SDM) and later, the mob turned violent and pelted the school premises with stones.” VHP regional president Rajesh Tiwari said, “The members of VHP and Bajrang Dal were holding peaceful protest but anti-social elements joined in and created ruckus.” The Saint Joseph church denied all allegations. “This fake news was spread by some Youtube channel. The news of holy communion of eight Catholic children was circulated as the conversion of Hindu children.”
07-12-2021||India||Don’t take coercive action under new IT rules, Madras high court tells Centre||The Madras High Court on Monday restrained the Central government from taking any coercive action against digital media firms under the new cal codes made to the parent Information Technology Act.The first bench of Acting Chief Justice M N Bhandari and Justice P D Audikesavalu gave the injunction when a new Public Interest Litigation (PIL) petition from the Indian Broadcasters and Digital Media Foundation came up for hearing on Monday.The respondents (Centre) are restrained from taking any coercive action without the permission of the Court,” the bench said and posted the matter for further hearing on January 25.The petition challenged the provisions of Information Technology (Intermediary Guidelines and Digital Media Ethics Code) Rules, brought in February this year. Earlier, the petitioner’s senior counsel alleged that the Centre was initiating penal action as per the provisions of the Rules, even though the Bombay High Court had granted an interim stay of the Rules a couple of months ago.The Bombay High Court had on August 14 this year stayed the operation of sub-rules (1) and (3) of Rule 9 of the said Rules of 2021.The Kerala High Court had also passed a similar order restraining the Centre from taking any action, he pointed out.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/dont-take-coercive-action-under-new-it-rules-madras-high-court-tells-centre-101638816169472.html
07-12-2021||India||Nagaland killings: Home minister Amit Shah expresses regret||Union home minister Amit Shah on Monday expressed regret over the killing of 14 civilians in Nagaland by security forces and informed Parliament that a Special Investigation Team (SIT) constituted to probe the “unfortunate incident” that occurred on Saturday has been directed to complete the investigation within a month. He also said the firing was a consequence of “mistaken identity”.“The Government of India sincerely regrets this unfortunate incident in Nagaland and expresses its deepest condolences to the families of those who have lost their lives,” Shah said while making a statement in both the Houses.As a united Opposition mounted pressure on the government to make a statement about the incident that threatens to snowball into a political embarrassment for the government and cast a shadow on the ongoing Naga Peace Accord, Shah said the union government is keeping a close watch on the evolving situation and necessary measures are being taken as per requirement to ensure peace and tranquility in the region.Prime Minister Narendra Modi also chaired a meeting with senior cabinet ministers including Shah and finance minister Nirmala Sitharaman to assess the situation; National Security Advisor, Ajit Doval is also learnt to have briefed the PM in Parliament.“The state authorities, as a precautionary measure, have promulgated prohibitory orders in the affected areas,” Shah said amid sloganeering by the opposition members in both Houses.Giving details of the encounter, Shah said that based on inputs received by the Indian Army about movement of the insurgents near Tiru village in Tizit area of Mon district, a team of 21st Para (special forces) commandos of Indian Army laid an ambush in the evening of December 4. “…During the ambush, a vehicle approached the location and it was signalled to stop. However, the vehicle tried to flee, following which the vehicle, suspected of carrying insurgents, was fired upon resulting in killing of 6 out of 8 persons travelling in the vehicle. However, it turned out to be a case of mistaken identity. The two persons who sustained injuries were evacuated to the medical facilities by the Army personnel,” he said.Referring to how the casualties escalated, Shah said local villagers surrounded the Army team, burnt two vehicles and assaulted them resulting in death of one Security Force personnel and injuries to several others on hearing the news of the killing.“For their own safety and to disperse the crowd, the security forces had to open fire which resulted in killing of 7 more civilians and injuring some others. The local administration and police have tried to defuse the situation, which remains tense but under control,” he said.The Opposition, however, did not relent.In the Lok Sabha, the opposition members wanted to a detailed discussion on the issue and also demanded that Prime Minister, Narendra Modi be present in the House. Congress MP Manickam Tagore said that the opposition was not satisfied with Shah’s statement and so staged a walkout.“The home minister came and replied with a very short reply and when we were asking for clarification, we were not allowed…We were not satisfied with the reply of the home minister. Therefore the opposition- Congress and DMK and other alliance partners- walked out in protest against the reply of the home minister,” he said.In the Rajya Sabha, Leader of the Opposition, Mallkarjun Kharge described the incidents as “horrendous” and demanded a statement by the minister. “There has been a very serious and most tragic development in which six innocent civilians were killed on December, 4 by security forces in the area of Tiru, in Mon District of Nagaland, mistaking them for militants. This horrific war sight led to clashes with security forces resulting in reportedly death of eight more civilians and one security personnel,” he said.Later when while Shah gave an account of the incident and the ensuing events in the Upper House the opposition was in the well of the house, sloganeering.“…In the evening of December 5, a mob of approximately 250 tried to ransack the Company Operating Base (CoB) of Assam Rifles at Mon town. The mob burnt buildings of the CoB following which troops had to open fire to disperse the mob. Resultantly, one civilian was killed while another was injured. More forces have been deployed in the area to prevent any further untoward incident,” Shah said.Oppositions MPs and chief ministers of Nagaland, Neiphiu Rio and Conrad Sangma of Sikkim also sought the removal the Armed Forces (Special Powers) Act (AFSPA) from the state. While the government remained tight lipped on the issue, Shah informed Parliament that review meetings were held between top officials of the government and the security forces to ensure that normalcy is restored at the earliest. “It was decided that all agencies should ensure that no such unfortunate incident recurs in future while undertaking operations against insurgents,” he said.Congress MP Gaurav Gogoi who will be part of the panel delegated by the Congress to report on Nagaland said, “The events create an atmosphere of distrust and it sets the Naga Peace negotiations back. It creates a divide between the people and the institutions of the government. In the past there have been clashes between police in Assam and Manipur and now Nagaland.”The MP from Assam said since this is the first session after clashes in Manipur and Nagaland, the opposition wants the government to look at the events comprehensively. “We have a hostile neighbour in the East, we are aware of external influences so we expect a reply…” he said.
07-12-2021||India||Modi, Putin discuss trade, Afghanistan, vow to boost relations||India and Russia on Monday agreed to enhance cooperation and coordination on bilateral and multilateral issues, including trade and investment and the situation in Afghanistan, as the two sides signed 28 agreements during the annual summit between Prime Minister Narendra Modi and President Vladimir Putin.Defence cooperation, for long a key pillar of the India-Russia strategic partnership, was a prominent part of the summit and the maiden 2+2 dialogue of the defence and foreign ministers. The two sides inked an agreement on the programme for defence cooperation during 2021-31 and concluded a deal for India’s procurement of more than 600,000 AK-203 assault rifles to be made a new joint venture.Both sides have set a target of increasing bilateral trade to $30 billion and bilateral investments to $50 billion by 2025, and Modi and Putin discussed ways to enhance economic cooperation, including through long-term procurement of essential commodities from Russia, elimination of trade barriers, and connectivity options such as the International North South Trade Corridor and the Chennai-Vladivostok maritime corridor.The two countries will also look at long-term cooperation and arrangements for energy, inland waterways, civilian shipbuilding, fertilisers, steel, coking coal, and supply of skilled manpower.In his televised opening remarks at the summit, Modi said India-Russia friendship has “remained a constant” despite many fundamental changes on the world stage and the two countries cooperated closely while paying attention to each other’s sensitivities.Putin, in his opening address, described India as a “great power” and a time-tested friend, and said Russia works with India in the military-technical field “in a way that we do not work with any of our partners”.Modi and Putin decided to continue close consultations and coordination on the situation in Afghanistan, and foreign secretary Harsh Shringla told a media briefing the two sides will work for a peaceful, secure and stable Afghanistan with an inclusive government representing all sections of society.“Both sides were also very clear that Afghanistan’s territory should not be used for sheltering, training, planning or financing any acts of terrorism,” Shringla said. Even as the two sides coordinate on drug trafficking and other concerns emanating from Afghanistan, they will work jointly on providing humanitarian aid to the Afghan people.There was a lot of emphasis on counterterrorism, an area of common interest, and a “joint sense” on dealing with terrorist entities active in the neighbourhood, such as Islamic State, al Qaeda and Lashkar-e-Taiba (LeT), Shringla said. Both sides stressed the need to address cross-border terrorism, sought action against UN-designated terror groups, and called for strengthening the Financial Action Task Force (FATF) and the UN office for counterterrorism, he added.A joint statement issued after the summit said: “Both sides strongly condemned terrorism in all its forms and manifestations and urged the international community to intensify cooperation against terrorism including safe havens, terror financing, arms and drugs trafficking, radicalisation and malicious use of ICTs to spread extremist, terrorist and other illegal content.”The joint statement specifically referred to Islamic State, al Qaeda and LeT in the context of preventing Afghan soil from being used for terrorist activities, and called for ensuring that “Afghanistan would never become a safe haven for global terrorism”.Among the 28 pacts signed by government and private entities was the “Agreement on Program of the Military-Technical Cooperation from 2021-2031”, a plan outlining ongoing and future defence cooperation. Such agreements have been signed since 1994.Following talks between defence minister Rajnath Singh and his Russian counterpart Sergey Shoigu, a contract was signed for India procuring 601,427 AK-203 rifles through the joint venture Indo-Russian Rifles Private Limited.The other agreements covered diverse fields such as trade, energy, intellectual property, accountancy, cyberattacks in the banking sector, manpower, geological exploration and surveys, culture and education.Among them were a roadmap for science, technology and innovation cooperation, a memorandum of cooperation (MoU) in intellectual property, an agreement on technology protection due to cooperation in research and use of outer space for peaceful purposes and building and operation of launch vehicles and ground-based space infrastructure, an MoU between India’s Opto-Electronics Factory and Rosoboronexport, and a crude oil supply agreement between Indian Oil Corporation and Rosneft.Shringla said the two sides put off the signing of the Reciprocal Exchange of Logistics (RELOS) agreement “for some time” as there are “still some issues we need to discuss”. It had been expected the agreement, which will allow militaries of the two nations to access support facilities at each other’s bases, would be signed during the summit.India’s dragging standoff with China on the Line of Actual Control (LAC) is understood to have figured in the 2+2 dialogue. Without naming China, defence minister Singh said in his opening remarks at the meeting that India is grappling with challenges arising from the “extraordinary militarisation” of its neighbourhood and “unprovoked aggression” on the northern border, and the country seeks partners who are responsive to its military requirements.“The pandemic, the extraordinary militarisation and expansion of armament in our neighbourhood and the unprovoked aggression on our northern border since early summer of 2020 have thrown in several challenges,” Singh said.“Recognising that its development needs are colossal and that its defence challenges are legitimate, real and immediate, India seeks partners who are sensitive and responsive to India’s expectations and requirements,” he added.Talking to the media after the 2+2 dialogue, Russian foreign minister Sergey Lavrov said the India-Russia deal for S-400 air defence systems is being implemented despite US attempts to “undermine this cooperation”. He said the Russian side raised its concerns about “Indo-Pacific strategies” and “non-inclusive blocs” such as AUKUS during the talks.Shringla told the media briefing that the 2+2 dialogue had extensively discussed the Indo-Pacific and India’s security concerns. India is currently cooperating extensively with Russia in areas that involve the region, such as the Chennai-Vladivostok maritime corridor, and also extending cooperation in the Indian Ocean, he said.Asked about possible US sanctions on the S-400 deal, Shringla said: “I think there was a sense that the S-400 is a legacy contract going back to 2018...Supplies have begun this month and will continue to happen.” He added both India and Russia conduct an independent foreign policy and there is no “need to look at our relationship in the light of any other relationship that is there”.
07-12-2021||India||HT THIS DAY: December 7, 1955 — Citizenship Bill passed by Lok Sabha||New Delhi- The Lok Sabha today passed the Citizenship Bill which provides for the acquisition and termination of Indian citizenship.During discussion on the remaining clauses of the Bill today the House accepted an amendment to Clause 5 with the result that the provision with regard to acquisition of the right by displaced persons was liberalized.Displaced persons, especially those from East Bengal, can acquire Indian citizenship by registration if they have been resident in India for a period of six months before the date of application for citizenship. The original clause provided for a 12 month period.During the debate on the clause, members had criticized the one year provision saying that some of the displaced persons might be deprived of their voting rights.DIVISION DEMANDEDDuring clausewise discussion, the Opposition demanded a division on Clause 11 which relates to Commonwealth citizenship. It was obviously a symbolic opposition because Clause 2, which also relates to Commonwealth citizenship, had been passed earlier. The division was lost by them by 26 to 128. Cries of “shame, shame” however were heard from the Opposition benches.Also during the passage of the First Schedule, which contains the names of the Commonwealth countries, there was a demand for division from them on Mr Kamath’s amendment to include in the list the names of Burma, Nepal, Bhutan and Afghanistan. The amendment was negatived.INSURANCE BILLThe House then took up the Insurance Amendment Bill which seeks to safeguard policy-holders’ money by giving the Government adequate powers to deal with the delinquent companies.The Bill replaces an Ordinance which the Government issued recently after investigations were started by them into the alleged irregularities in the working of the Bharat Insurance Co, which subsequently was placed by the Government under an Administrator.The discussion on the Bill had an unexpected start. Immediately after Mr M. C. Shah, Minister for Revenue and Civil Expenditure, moved it with a brief openings speech, Mr Firoze Gandhi (Cong.) spoke for nearly two hours, cheers punctuating the member’s maiden speech at frequent intervals.Mr F. Gandhi made serious allegations against the working of the Bharat Insurance Co. and a large number of associate companies and concluded with a demand that the Government should appoint a judicial commission to inquire into the affairs of the entire “ Dalmia Jain group of Industries ‘ right from the beginning. At one stage, when the Deputy Speaker inquired as to how a detailed account by Mr Gandhi of the transactions of other firms owned by Mr Dalmia was relevent, the Finance Minister. Mr Deshmukh rose to say: “ Sir, I believe Mr Gandhi is trying to portray the background against which legislation of this kind (Insurance Amendment Bills becomes necessary where the finances of industrial concerns, banks and insurance companies are inextricably mixed together by a person with more than ordinary capacity to intermix them.” Earlier. Mr Shah explained the circumstances in which the ordinance had been issued, It was found necessary, he said, that the Administrator appointed for the insurance company should have powers to prevent the delinquent, responsible for the loss of policyholders’ money, from disposing of his properties or transferring them to some other person for in that case even a decree obtained against the delinquent would not be effective.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/htthisday-december-7-1955-citizenship-bill-passed-by-lok-sabha-101638816050125.html
07-12-2021||India||IMD alerts: Cyclone Jawad remnants to bring rainfall in 7 states till December 9||Cyclone Jawad, as predicted by the India Meteorological Department (IMD), weakened into a deep depression and subsequently to a depression before turning into a low-pressure area. However, the remnants of the cyclonic storm has caused heavy rainfall to many states, especially West Bengal.According to the latest bulletin by the IMD, the storm currently lies over northwest Bay of Bengal, and adjoining West Bengal-Bangladesh coasts. Owing to this, rainfall alerts have been issued in as many as seven states and Union territories till December 9.Also Read | Cyclone Jawad: Rain lashes Kolkata, southern parts of West BengalBesides rainfall, northwest, central and east Indian regions will experience a drop in minimum temperature by 3 to 5 degrees Celsius.Here's the key IMD alerts for 7 states and Union territories for the next three days:1. Jammu & Kashmir, Ladakh, Himachal Pradesh, and Uttarakhand are expected to witness isolated to scattered light rainfall or snowfall over the next 24 hours.2. According to the IMD bulletin, light isolated rainfall is very likely over Uttar Pradesh on December 6.3. There will be a dip in the minimum temperature by 3 to 5 degrees Celsius in northwest, central and east Indian regions as well as Gujarat.4. The IMD has forecasted that a fresh weather disturbance is likely to impact the western Himalayan region from December 8 onwards, and under its influence, isolated light rainfall or snowfall is very likely over Jammu & Kashmir, Ladakh, and Himachal Pradesh on December 8 and 9.5. The disturbance over western Himalaya will also cause isolated to scattered, light to moderate rainfall over coastal Andhra Pradesh, Kerala, and Tamil Nadu on December 8 and 9. Notably, isolated heavy downpours have been additionally forecasted over Tamil Nadu.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/imd-alerts-cyclone-jawad-remnants-to-bring-rainfall-in-7-states-till-december-9-101638809820653.html
07-12-2021||India||Afspa is damaging image of India: CMs of Nagaland and Meghalaya call for repeal||Kohima/New Delhi: The chief ministers of Nagaland and Meghalaya on Monday asked the central government to repeal the Armed Forces (Special Powers) Act of 1958 (AFSPA), which protects armed forces from prosecution for killings in disturbed areas. The demand follows the killing of 14 civilians by defence forces in Nagaland’s Mon district on Saturday and Sunday. The Nagaland government wants the longstanding AFSPA to be repealed, chief minister Neiphiu Rio said.“AFSPA is damaging the image of our country, which is the world’s largest democracy,” Rio said at the funeral services for the dead civilians in Mon on Monday. Authorities will pursue justice for the killed civilians, the chief minister said, adding that a case has been booked against the special operations team of the Indian Army.Meghalaya chief minister Conrad Sangma backed Rio. “AFSPA should be repealed,” Sangma tweeted.Later in a video message, he said his party has opposed the AFSPA since the days of his father and former Lok Sabha speaker P A Sangma. “AFSPA has not given any results. In fact, its enforcement has proved to be counterproductive. There are many ways to deal with (insurgency) issues. AFSPA is not the way. Repeal the draconian law,” the National People’s Party leader said. Both Rio and Sangma are part of the Bharatiya Janata Party-led National Democratic Alliance that is in power in the two northeastern states, and at the Centre. AFSPA is in force in several northeastern states, home to some insurgent groups, and in Jammu and Kashmir. Under the law, local police need prior approval of the central government to prosecute army or paramilitary forces in civilian courts.The Army has constituted a court of inquiry into the incident when six coal miners were killed in an ambush by special forces looking for insurgents. The killings led to violent protests by villagers, who torched three army vehicles.The soldiers responded with gunfire, killing seven more people, officials said. One soldier was also killed in the clash. In a protest on Sunday, one more civilian was killed when an irate mob tried to set fire to an Assam rifles camp in Mon town. Some of the 11 injured civilians, are said to be in serious condition. People in Nagaland have been demanding the repeal of the 1958 law for years, and several human rights organisations have called the act draconian.The killing of insurgents has been declining in Nagaland, with just two deaths in 2018, official data show. No deaths of insurgents in clashes with security forces were reported in 2017 and 2016. Four deaths were reported in 2015 and three in 2014. Since 2001, the highest number of insurgents reported to be killed in Nagaland was 53, the data showed.In Nagaland, insurgency started in the mid-1950s, with rebels seeking an independent homeland. They have watered down their demand, and have agreed to reach a solution under the Constitution. However, a final agreement is yet to be reached. The demand for the repeal of AFSPA echoed in Parliament during a debate over the latest Nagaland troubles. Home minister Amit Shah should immediately call a meeting of all chief ministers of northeastern states, Trinamool Congress leader in Rajya Sabha Sushmita Dev demanded. The problems related to AFSPA should be resolved through dialogue, she said.“It is imperative that the Centre set up a committee to see if AFSPA is working in this country or not, Dev said. The killing of civilians in Nagaland has put a question mark over the Act.” In 2019, Kiren Rijiju, who was then junior home minister, said in a written reply in Lok Sabha that there was no proposal to repeal AFSPA. Rijiju hails from Arunachal Pradesh in the northeast.  AFSPA is in force in Assam, Nagaland and Manipur (except the Imphal municipal area), in three districts of Arunachal Pradesh (Tirap, Changlang and Longding) and areas under the jurisdiction of eight police stations in the districts of Arunachal Pradesh that border Assam.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/afspa-is-damaging-image-of-india-cms-of-nagaland-and-meghalaya-call-for-repeal-101638815569350.html
07-12-2021||India||Major General to head probe into Nagaland civilian killings||The Indian Army has set up a court of inquiry under a major general to look into the killing of civilians in a botched counter-insurgency operation in Nagaland’s Mon district on Saturday, officials familiar with the matter said on Monday. The two-star officer is posted in the country’s northeast.Fourteen civilians were killed in two separate firing incidents. In the first incident, army personnel gunned down six coal miners after mistaking them to be insurgents. Soon after, angry villagers reached the spot and set ablaze security vehicles, sparking off another round of firing by the forces in which seven villagers and one soldier died. On Sunday, a 14th civilian died when a mob attacked an army camp.The operation was carried out by a special forces unit of the army, which laid an ambush after receiving intelligence inputs on the movement of militant cadres in the area.“The incident in Nagaland has been a tragic mistake. The army has been open in its admission and ordered an inquiry. It would be good if the inquiry is quickly concluded and there is transparency about its findings, otherwise credibility is lost,” said former Northern Army commander Lt General DS Hooda (retd).The unfortunate incident should have never taken place, said Lt General Shokin Chauhan, who retired last year as the chairman of the Ceasefire Monitoring Group responsible for implementing ceasefire ground rules between the Centre and Naga insurgent groups.“If you continue to allow insurgency to fester and not bring the peace process to conclusion, such incidents are likely to happen. I feel there should be full disclosure and justice should be meted out,” said Chauhan. He also highlighted the need to take review standard operating procedures so that such incidents do not take place again.The gunning down of civilians renewed the demand for the withdrawal of the Armed Forces Special Power Act (AFSPA) from the state. The Act, which grants special powers to the forces to maintain public order in “disturbed areas”, has been a contentious issue in the state, with civil society members saying that it gives security personnel impunity to carry out excesses and forces saying that it helps them maintain order in restive areas.Linking this incident with AFSPA is not entirely correct, and the issue of the continuation of the Act or otherwise needs to be holistically viewed keeping in mind the overall security environment, and not based on individual incidents, Hooda added.AFSPA bestows sweeping powers on security forces and prohibits prosecutions from being initiated without a go-ahead from the Centre if the allegations are linked to the public duty of the accused.The Nagaland government on Sunday banned mobile internet and SMS services in the region to curb “circulation of inflammatory videos, pictures or text.”A notification issued by the state home department banning the services alluded to the “apprehension of grave law and order problems” in the district and said: “Short Message Service (SMS), WhatsApp, Facebook, and other social media platforms could be used for spreading of rumours, fake news, and for circulating inflammatory texts, pictures, videos etc. which may inflame passions and thus exacerbate the law-and-order situation.”The incident has focused attention on the security situation in the northeast and the conduct of counter-insurgency operations by security forces. It comes weeks after armed militants ambushed an Assam Rifles convoy near the porous India-Myanmar border in Manipur’s Churachandpur district, killing five soldiers, including a colonel, his wife and their eight-year-old son.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/major-general-to-head-probe-into-nagaland-civilian-killings-101638815334571.html
07-12-2021||India||Nagaland police FIR says army fired with‘intention to murder, injure civilians’||Nagaland police has registered a case on its own against the 21st para special forces for killing 13 civilians suspecting them as militants at Tiru-Oting area of Mon district in Nagaland 48 hours ago.The incident happened on December 4 afternoon when coal miners of Oting village were returning home from Tiru on a pickup truck, police stated.“On reaching at Langkhao between Upper Tiru and Oting village, security forces fired at the vehicle without any provocation, resulting to the killing of many Oting villagers and seriously injured many others,” according to the first information report (FIR) lodged at Tizit police station. HT has seen a copy of the FIR.At the time of the incident, there was no police guide for the security forces, nor did the security forces make any requisition to the police station to provide a guide for their operation, the FIR mentioned.“Hence, it is obvious that the intention of the security forces is to murder and injure civilians,” the FIR said while registering a case for necessary action against the culprits.The director general of police (DGP) of Nagaland and commissioner Nagaland, who visited the site of the firing on Sunday, have submitted a spot report on the sequence of events to the state government.The Nagaland government has constituted a special investigation team (SIT) to investigate the firing. Home minister Amit Shah made statements in both houses of Parliament, saying that the army has regretted the incident, the FIR on the firing has been transferred to the state crime police station and will be investigated by a SIT, and that the Union government regrets the incident.The incident happened when the army laid an ambush for insurgents on the basis of intelligence inputs, and when the vehicle with the workers neared the spot and was asked to stop, it tried to flee, resulting in the firing that killed six of the eight people in the vehicle, Shah said in the statement in Parliament.Another seven civilians were killed when angry villages surrounded the army team, burnt two vehicles and assaulted them, resulting in the death of one soldier and forcing the team to fire at the crowd. The home minister termed the killing of the workers a case of mistaken identity.The army has launched an investigation into the matter.The security forces personnel tried to hide the dead bodies of the six villagers by wrapping and loading them in a pickup truck other than the one on which the villagers were travelling, according to the report by the DGP and the commissioner. HT has seen a copy of the reportThe report said on December 4 evening, eight villagers were returning home from coal mining work at Tiru in an open pickup truck, when they were killed by security forces ( 21 Para Special Force based in Assam), without any attempt at identification.Six of them were killed on the spot, leaving two critically injured. The incident happened some few kilometers away from Oting village.“On hearing the gunshots, the villagers went to the spot being apprehensive that the individuals did not return home from work. On reaching the spot, they found the pickup truck and the Special Forces Personnel trying to hide the dead bodies of the six villagers by wrapping and loading them in another pickup truck (Tata Mobile) apparently with the intention of taking the dead bodies to their base camp,” the report added.After seeing the dead bodies in the vehicle, the report said, violence broke out between the villagers and the security personnel where the irate villagers burnt three vehicles belonging to the security personnel.“In the melee, the security personnel again opened fire against the villagers, which led to the death of 7 (seven) more villagers and eyewitnesses have confirmed that the Special Forces Personnel opened fire indiscriminately as they fled from the scene towards Assam side even firing on the coal mine hutments on the way,” the spot report said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/nagaland-police-fir-says-army-unit-fired-with-intention-to-murder-injure-civilians-101638815153927.html
07-12-2021||India||Funeral of 14 civilians held as protests continue in Nagaland||Hundreds of mourners joined Nagaland chief minister Neiphiu Rio to pay their last respect to the 14 civilians shot dead by security personnel during a botched ambush and a subsequent confrontation with local villagers on Saturday and Sunday.An elite military commando unit shot dead six coal miners returning to their homes in Mon district of Nagaland state on Saturday, believing they were targeting insurgents.The army has said the miners were killed after they laid an ambush following “credible intelligence” about an armed insurgent group moving in the area. When asked to stop, the pickup truck carrying the miners sought to flee, resulting in a mix-up based on mistaken identity, Union home minister Amit Shah told Parliament on Monday.Another eight people were killed by troops when they were confronted by a furious crowd across two separate incidents, with a soldier also being killed and army vehicles being set ablaze.Hundreds of locals carried the victims’ coffins to the helipad ground in Mon district to conduct prayers, as a curfew imposed on Sunday was lifted partially during the three-hour public funeral. “Curfew was lifted specifically for the locality where the funeral was held,” deputy commissioner Mon Thavaseelan K said.On Monday, for the second day, street protests and candle light marches were held across the state for the victims. A police officer described the ground situation as “tense but under control”.A six-hour shutdown called by Naga Students’ Federation (NSF) to protest the killing passed off peacefully, despite minor skirmishes between students and security forces in some places.The shutdown was to protest the shooting down of civilians and in solidarity with the family of victims, NSF president Kegwayhun Tep and general secretary Siipuni Ng Philo told reporters.They said the purpose of the bandh was to display the grief, anger and sentiments of the Naga people. The people of the state have every right to defend what they have, they added.During the six-hour shutdown, the NSF put up banners and placards, some of which read “We stand in solidarity with our Naga brethrens – the innocent civilians who were brutally killed at Oting village, Mon district,” and “Nagas have every right to live in peace.”In Mokokchung district, the Ao Students Conference, condemning the “massacre of innocent civilians,” held a silent procession demanding justice and revocation of Armed Forces Special Powers Act, the law that gives armed forces extraordinary powers in so-called disturbed areas. The Dimapur Chamber of Commerce and Industries enforced a total shutdown in capital Dimapur for 12 hours, and Lotha Hoho, a community grouping, imposed a bandh in Wokha district.Addressing a mass funeral service held in Mon for the 14 victims of the armed forces, chief minister Rio said the state continues to be declared a “disturbed state” every year due to the vexed Naga political issue and insurgency.Commenting on the killing of the 14 civilians, Rio asked people to have faith in the state government and said the special investigation team will probe every angle and action will be taken. He assured people that protection under AFSPA will not apply.“The army has admitted that they made a mistake and the whole world is watching the developments,” he said.The chief minister also mentioned that the commander of the army’s 3 Corps headquarters personally asked him to convey to the Naga people that the army will also be conducting a proper inquiry into the shooting and punish the guilty.The sacrifice made by 14 innocent Konyak Naga brothers will never be forgotten and December 4 and 5 will remain black days for all Nagas, Rio said, referring to a decision of the Konyak Union (the apex tribal body of the district), which declared that the two days would be observed as black days every year.The chief minister also announced Rs.5 lakh as compensation to the victims’ families. The Central government will give ₹11 lakh to the families of each of the dead, he added. The government would provide jobs to one person from the families of the victims, the chief minister promised.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/funeral-of-14-civilians-held-as-protests-continue-in-nagaland-101638814969790.html
07-12-2021||India||S-400 deal is on despite US objections, says Russia||The deal between India and Russia for S-400 air defence systems is being implemented despite the US attempts to “undermine this cooperation”, Russian foreign minister Sergey Lavrov said on Monday.India and Russia are on the same page on the situation in Afghanistan as both sides want the Taliban to deliver on commitments to form an inclusive government and prevent terrorism and instability from spilling over into neighbouring countries, Lavrov said.Talking to the media after the maiden India-Russia 2+2 dialogue of defence and foreign ministers, Lavrov said the Russian side raised its concerns about “Indo-Pacific strategies” and “non-inclusive blocs” such as AUKUS, the defence alliance between Australia, the UK and the US, during the talks.“The S-400 deal doesn’t have only symbolic meaning, it has a very important practical meaning for Indian defence capability and the situation is basically underway. The deal is being implemented,” he said, referring to the $5.4-billion deal signed by India to acquire five S-400 systems. “We witnessed attempts on the part of the US to undermine this cooperation and make India obey the American orders to follow the American vision of how this region should be developed. Our Indian friends clearly and firmly explained that they are a sovereign country and they will decide on whose weapons to buy and who is going to be a partner of India in this and the other areas,” he said. Russia-India ties are a “specially privileged strategic partnership” and Monday’s meeting of a bilateral military technical commission is a “manifestation that this cooperation is in the interest of both countries”, Lavrov added. Russia continues to be a key supplier of military hardware to India, which has diversified arms purchases in recent years by acquiring combat jets, helicopters and advanced weapons from the US, France and Israel. The US has threatened to impose sanctions on the S-400 deal under the Countering America’s Adversaries Through Sanctions Act (CAATSA), but India has said its defence procurements are guided by a policy of strategic autonomy. The delivery of the first S-400 system to India coincided with President Vladimir Putin’s visit for an annual summit. Lavrov said the situation in Afghanistan was discussed at the 2+2 meeting. “We share the view [with India] that the Taliban must deliver on their commitments to ensure an inclusive government structure and respect human rights, prevent the drug threat and the terrorist threat remaining in the country, and prevent instability from spilling over from Afghanistan into neighbouring countries, primarily into Central Asia,” he said. Russia is opposed to any attempts by the US or NATO (North Atlantic Treaty Organization) to shift forces withdrawn from Afghanistan to neighbouring countries, and the Central Asian states have said this will be unacceptable, Lavrov said. India and Russia also agreed to work closely together, including within the Shanghai Cooperation Organisation (SCO), to coordinate their actions on Afghanistan. Lavrov, who has for long been critical of the Indo-Pacific concept, said the Russian side had focused at the 2+2 meeting on developments in Asia-Pacific, where “elements of instability have been accumulating which could undermine the universal framework of cooperation”. He added, “We expressed our concern about the activities taking place in this region under the slogan of Indo-Pacific strategies, where we see non-inclusive blocs. The latest example is AUKUS, a military-technical alliance between the US, Great Britain and Australia and there are a lot of questions on the plans to supply to Australia or make in Australia nuclear-powered submarines.” Lavrov questioned whether these plans comply with International Atomic Energy Agency (IAEA) norms and non-proliferation rules. “From a regional perspective, to what extent will Australia stick to its obligation on the nuclear weapons-free zones in the Southern Pacific?” he said. The Indian side, Lavrov contended, “distanced themselves from the AUKUS bloc”. He said, “They are part of the Quad group, which brings together India, Japan, Australia and the US, and India...emphasises its interest in economic infrastructure and transport projects within this framework.” 
07-12-2021||India||Supreme Court stays 27% OBC reservation in Maharashtra local body elections||Local body polls in Maharashtra will be held without reservation for other backward classes (OBC), the Supreme Court ordered on Monday, while rebuking the state government for introducing 27% reservation for OBCs through an ordinance two months ago without collecting data.The decision of the court would affect 567 seats out of a total of 2,100 for which elections were announced by the state election commission (SEC) on November 24. Tuesday is the last day for filing nominations.“The election for the concerned local bodies in respect of reserved seats for backward classes shall remain stayed till further orders,” a bench of justices AM Khanwilkar and CT Ravikumar said. “SEC shall not notify reserved seats for OBCs for any election, either mid-term or any other general election, until further orders.” The order came on separate petitions by Kisanrao Kundalikrao Gawali, a former legislator in the state assembly, and Rahul Ramesh Wagh, a social worker. The requirement of collecting empirical data as a precondition for providing OBC reservation in Maharashtra’s local body elections was laid down by the Supreme Court on March 4. This judgment directed the state government to set up a dedicated commission to examine backwardness and extent of OBC population in each municipal council. On June 29, a commission was constituted for this purpose, but since this exercise would take time, the state issued an ordinance by amending provisions in two legislations – Maharashtra Village Panchayats Act and the Maharashtra Zilla Parishad and Panchayat Samitis Act, 1961.Taking exception to the haste shown by the state to introduce the ordinance, the bench remarked, “Your political compulsions cannot be the basis to undo our judgment….You should have waited for the data to be compiled by the commission.” The collection of data is an exhaustive exercise and, due to the Covid-19 pandemic, it was expected to take a long time, said lawyer Shekhar Naphade, appearing for the state.The state had filed a petition in the Supreme Court demanding census data on OBCs, he informed the court. This petition is still pending consideration and is expected to be heard on December 13. The court ordered the present petitions to be heard along with that matter next Monday.The state argued against a stay, saying it would mean that OBCs will be unrepresented. The bench, however, said, “You have created this problem. Our judgment was very clear, asking you to get data and provide reservation for municipal council wise. You have overturned our judgment with this process.” Reservation for OBCs can be justified only by collecting data, lawyer Vikas Singh argued on behalf of the petitioners. “What this court set aside has been reintroduced by the ordinance, except with a rider of 50% on total reservation,” Singh said. He said that if this ordinance was stayed, the 567 seats will be filled up by general category candidates.The two petitions filed through advocate Chandra Prakash and Hrikesh Chitley said, “The foremost requirement (for providing OBC reservation) is to collate adequate materials or documents that could help in identification of OBCs for the purpose of reservation by conducting a contemporaneous rigorous empirical inquiry into the nature and implications of backwardness in the local bodies concerned through an independent dedicated Commission.”The petitioners had earlier approached the Bombay high court challenging the ordinance. On November 18, the high court issued notice on their petitions, but did not grant any stay. Later, when the SEC notification announcing the election process was put out, the petitioners approached the apex court, seeking urgent stay of the ordinance and its effect in the present local body polls.The court also pulled up the SEC for announcing the election schedule. “When the matter was before the court, you (SEC) could have taken permission,” it said. By two notifications of November 24 and November 26, the schedule for elections to 15 panchayat samitis in the districts of Bhandara and Gondia and 105 nagar panchayats throughout the state was declared.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/supreme-court-stays-27-obc-reservation-in-maharashtra-local-body-elections-101638814550405.html
07-12-2021||India||India, Russia finalise AK-203 deal, renew 10-year pact: Officials||India and Russia on Monday concluded a much-awaited ₹5,100-crore deal to jointly produce more than 600,000 AK-203 assault rifles at a facility in Uttar Pradesh’s Amethi district to advance self-reliance in defence manufacturing, officials said. The deal was finalised at the 20th meeting of India-Russia Inter-Governmental Commission on Military & Military Technical Cooperation (IRIGC-M&MTC) led by defence minister Rajnath Singh and his Russian counterpart Sergey Shoigu. The two countries also renewed their military-technical cooperation arrangement for 2021-31, the officials said, requesting anonymity. The IRIGC-M&MTC meeting took place ahead of the annual summit between Prime Minister Narendra Modi and Russian President Vladimir Putin on Monday. The government had on Saturday announced that it had cleared the plan to manufacture AK-203 rifles in Uttar Pradesh in a joint venture called Indo-Russian Rifles Private Limited (IRRPL) that was formed by Advanced Weapons and Equipment India Limited and Munitions India Limited, and Russia’s Rosoboronexport and Kalashnikov. The Indian and the Russian entities hold a share capital of 50.5% and 49.5%, respectively. Advanced Weapons and Equipment India Limited and Munitions India Limited are two of the seven defence firms carved out of the erstwhile Ordnance Factory Board in October. Singh described Russia as India’s long-standing special and privileged strategic partner, adding the relations between the two countries were time-tested and based on shared interests in multilateralism and global peace and prosperity. He said the close cooperation with Russia was not targeted against another country. “We hope that our cooperation will bring peace, prosperity and stability to the entire region,” the defence minister said. The AK-203 rifles will replace INSAS rifles inducted more than three decades ago. “The contract ends the long quest of Indian Army to replace the aging INSAS rifles with a modern weapon. The AK-203 assault rifle with proven technology will enhance the combat potential of soldiers to adequately meet present and future operational challenges,” said a senior government official. The 7.62mm X 39mm caliber AK-203 rifle has an effective range of 300 metre. AK-203 is a reliable weapon with reduced flash and recoil, better ergonomics and other modern features, and it will boost the morale of soldiers, he added. The agreement envisages the production of 601,247 rifles, of which the first 70,000 will be made with transfer of technology from Kalashnikov to IRRPL. The remaining 531,000 rifles will be fully indigenous, the officials said. The entire lot of 601,247 rifles will be produced in 10 years, they added. India and Russia signed an Inter-Governmental Agreement (IGA) for the AK-203 project in February 2018. “The Kalashnikov series weapons are the simplest to operate, they are tested weapons and the metallurgy is one of the best. It will enhance the existing small arms capability of the army,” said former Northern Army commander Lt General BS Jaswal (retd). The two countries also signed protocols on amending a 2019 agreement between India and Russia on cooperation in the field of manufacturing Kalashnikov series small arms in the country, and on military and military technical cooperation to discuss and implement agreed agenda for defence cooperation, the officials said. There was no official word from the government on the delivery of the first squadron of S-400 air defence systems – part of a $5.4-billion contract with Russia for five systems – but it is expected to be completed anytime. Russian officials have said the delivery of components for the air defence systems has begun. Against the backdrop of US threats to impose secondary sanctions on the S-400 deal under the Countering America’s Adversaries Through Sanctions Act (CAATSA), the officials said India follows a policy of strategic autonomy when it comes to defence procurements and national security interests.
07-12-2021||India||Narcotic Drugs and Psychotropic Substances Amendment Bill likely to be tabled||Union finance minister Nirmala Sitharaman will introduce the Narcotic Drugs and Psychotropic Substances (Amendment) Bill, 2021 in the Lok Sabha on Monday to amend the Narcotic Drugs and Psychotropic Substances Act, 1985 to correct a drafting error.The Act regulates certain operations - such as manufacture, transport and consumption - related to narcotic drugs and psychotropic substances.  Under the Act, financing certain illicit activities such as cultivating cannabis, manufacturing narcotic drugs or harbouring persons engaged in them is an offence.  Persons found guilty of this offence will be punished with rigorous imprisonment of at least 10 years - extendable up to 20 years - and a fine of at least ₹1 lakh. In 2014, the Act was amended and the clause number of the definition for such illicit activities was changed. However, the section on penalty for financing these illicit activities was not amended and continued to refer to the earlier clause number of the definition. The ordinance amends the section on penalty to change the reference to the new clause number.The National Institute of Pharmaceutical Education and Research (Amendment) Bill, 2021 and the High Court and Supreme Court Judges (Salaries and Conditions of Service) Amendment Bill, 2021 may also be tabled in the Lok Sabha on Monday.The former, which will be introduced by Union health minister Dr Mansukh Mandaviya, provides for granting the status of national importance to the six institutes in Ahmedabad, Guwahati, Hajipur, Hyderabad, Kolkata and Raebareli.Also Read: V-P Naidu meets govt, Opposition leaders on MPs’ suspensionTwo sessions after the Assisted Reproductive Technology (Regulations) Bill, 2020 was passed in the Lok Sabha by a voice vote, the Union health minister will be introducing the Bill for passage in the Rajya Sabha on Monday. The Bill aims to regulate assisted reproductive technology (ART) services such as in-vitro fertilization (IVF) centres, sperm or egg banks etc that have mushroomed across the country.Dr Mandaviya will also be introducing the Surrogacy (Regulation) Bill, 2020 in the Rajya Sabha. It was passed by Lok Sabha in August 2019 before it was referred to a Select Committee, which recommended that the ART Bill is brought first, so that all the highly technical and medical aspects could subsequently be addressed in the Surrogacy (Regulation) Bill, 2019.The Surrogacy Bill provisions for a National Surrogacy Board that will be involved in policy making and also in supervision, and State Boards that will act as executive bodies.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/narcotic-drugs-and-psychotropic-substances-amendment-bill-likely-to-be-tabled-today-101638760237510.html
07-12-2021||NA||Breaking news highlights: PM Modi to inaugurate projects in UP on Dec 7||Welcome to hindustantimes.com live updates platform where you can find breaking news from India and across the world. Find fast updates about the latest news as it breaks.Missed an important news update? Worried about what is happening in the world of finance and how it will impact you? Want to know about the latest update on Covid-19? Don't worry, we have you covered.Follow all the updates here:France holds off on tougher Covid rules despite sharp surge in cases: ReportFrench has decided to hold off imposing stricter measures to counter a sharp rise in Covid-19 cases that has seen several hospitals announce emergency protocols as beds fill up, a government source told AFP on Monday. Read morePM to inaugurate projects worth ₹9,600 crore in Uttar Pradesh on TuesdayI will also inaugurate the new building of the ICMR-Regional Medical Research Centre. This Centre has played a key role in curing people from Acute Encephalitis Syndrome. The UP Government has made commendable efforts in the last 4 years in this area.Taking to Twitter, Prime Minister Narendra Modi said that December 7 (Tuesday) is going to be a “special day for the development trajectory of Uttar Pradesh,especially Purvanchal” as he will inaugurate projects worth R 9,600 crore at a programme in Gorakhpur.Man held in Delhi for raping deaf and dumb woman multiple timesA man aged 34, and identified as Rehan, has been held in Delhi's Bhajanpura region for allegedly raping a deaf and dumb woman (30) multiple times, ANI reported citing Delhi Police.28 agreements or MOUs signed between India and Russia todayA total of 28 agreements/MoUs have been signed between India and Russia during the 21st India-Russia Annual Summit in New Delhi on Monday.Tamil Nadu opens shutters of Mullaperiyar DamTamil Nadu opens nine shutters of Mullaperiyar dam at night ignoring Kerala's pleas; areas downstream inundated.Deliveries of Russian S-400 missile system have begun: FS ShringlaIndian foreign secretary Harsh Vardhan Shringla on Monday said that deliveries of Russian S-400 supplies have commenced starting this month and “will continue to happen,” according to ANI.17 teenage students kept overnight in UP private schools for practicalAs many as 17 teenage students of class 10 were kept in two private schools of Muzaffarnagar in Uttar Pradesh overnight for practical. Parents of two girls have submitted a complaint that the girls were intoxicated, and thereafter molested. A case has been filed against both school owners and one of them has also been held. The station house officer (SHO) of Purkaji police station has been sent to police line for not initiating action in the case. Notably, the incident happened on November 20, and the case was lodged on December 4.Over 7.1 million doses of Covid-19 vaccines administered today: Health ministryIndia administered more than 71 lakh Covid-19 vaccine doses on day 325 of the vaccination drive today, taking cumulative vaccination coverage to over 128.66 crores. More than 85% eligible population has been inoculated with first dose of Covid-19 vaccine: Union health ministryKarnataka college declared containment zone after 9 Covid-19 casesA college in Karnataka's Mangalore has been declared containment zone after a total of nine cases of Covid-19 were found out of 173 samples. Dakshina Kannada deputy commissioner Rajendra KV told ANI that the samples have been sent for genomic sequencing to confirm if it's Omicron variant.Two Omicron cases detected in MumbaiAs many as two cases of Omicron Covid-19 have been detected in Mumbai, following which Maharashtra's overall tally has risen to 10. Moreover, India's cumulative tally of the new Covid-19 variant has also climbed up to 23.Considered as India's first woman psychiatrist, Sarada Menon dies aged 98 in ChennaiSarada Menon, who is considered to be India’s first woman psychiatrist, passed away aged 98 in her home in Chennai on Sunday. She has been a recipient of several accolades, including the Padma Bhusan in 1992 for her work in the field of mental health.‘Great power, friendly nation, time-tested friend’: Putin about IndiaRussian President Vladimir Putin, during his meeting with PM Narendra Modi, says that the country perceives India as a “great power, a friendly nation, and a time-tested friend.” “The relations between our nations are growing, and I am looking into the future,” Putin added at the 21st India-Russia summit at Delhi's Hyderabad House.Despite challenges for Covid, no change in growth pace of India-Russia relation: PM ModiPM Narendra Modi, Russian President Vladimir Putin meet in New DelhiPM Modi says, "Despite the challenges posed by COVID, there is no change in the pace of growth of India-Russia relations. Our special & privileged strategic partnership continues to become stronger." pic.twitter.com/1FOHYtAzQYDuring the 21st India-Russia summit, Prime Minister Narendra Modi said that inspite of several challenges posed by Covid-19 pandemic, there has been “no change in the pace of growth of India-Russia relation.”Meeting between PM Modi and Russian Prez Vladimir Putin begins in Delhi#WATCH | Delhi: PM Narendra Modi receives Russian President Vladimir Putin at Hyderabad HouseThe two leaders will hold the 21st annual India-Russia summit. pic.twitter.com/angbNHbf0TPrime Minister Narendra Modi on Monday received Russian President Vladimir Putin at Hyderabad House in Delhi ahead of the 21st India-Russia Summit.ED summons actor Jacqueline Fernandez on Dec 8 in extortion case, involving conman Suresh ChandrasekharThe Enforcement Directorate (ED) has summoned Bollywood actor Jacqueline Fernandez to appear before the investigators in Delhi on December 8, ANI reported. This is in connection with ₹200 crore extortion case involving conman Sukesh Chandrasekhar.Congress to send delegation to Nagaland in wake of civilian killingsCongress to send delegation constituting AICC general secretary Jitendra Singh, among three others, to Nagaland in wake of the civilian killings that led to 13 casualties. The delegation needs to submit a report to President Ram Nath Kovind in a week.Croatia confirms first two cases of Omicron Covid-19 variantCroatia confirmed the country's first two cases of Omicron Covid-19 variant on Monday, Reuters reported citing the state health institute. Earlier in the day, Nepal also confirmed Omicron cases in the country after two people were detected with the strain.Ajay Maken named chairman of screening panel ahead of Punjab pollsCongress has named Ajay Maken as the chairman of screening committee ahead of Punjab elections. The committee also comprises Punjab Pradesh Congress (PPC) chief Navjot Singh Sidhu and chief minister Charanjit Singh Channi. Ambika Soni has been named as the chairperson of election coordination committee, Pratap Singh Bajwa as the chairperson of manifesto committee, and Sunil Jakhar as the chairperson of the election campaign committee.3 passengers, including 2 women injured when unidentified gunmen fired at them on Patna trainAs many as three passengers, including two women, were injured when a group of unidentified gunmen fired at them when they were travelling on Patna-Jhajha MEMU train near Patna's Khusrupur railway station.No recommendations on booster shots after NTAGI meetingThe National Technical Advisory Group on Immunisation (NTAGI) meeting on Covid-19 vaccine booster shots is “inconclusive,” news agency ANI reported on Monday. 'No recommendations made on booster or additional Covid-19 vaccine dose today," the report added.Delhi reported 15 deaths due to dengue in 2021, highest in 6 yearsAs many as 15 people succumbed to dengue this year in Delhi, which is the highest in the last six years, according to government data. The capital logged a total of 8,975 dengue cases in 2021, the data revealed.Delhi govt issues show-cause notice to Etihad Airways over alleged Covid norm violation at airport amid OmicronDelhi government has issued a show-cause notice to Etihad Airways for the alleged violation of Covid-19 guidelines for international arrivals at Indian airports, issued by the Centre in wake of the emergence of Omicron variant, news agency ANI reported citing an official statement.Over 10 million people from B'desh took refuge in India in 1971 war, says ShringlaAs India and Bangladesh celebrate ‘Maitri Diwas’ on Monday, foreign secretary HV Shringla said on the occasion that more than 10 million people from East Bengal (now Bangladesh) people took refuge in India (in 1971 war). “Today, in a similar humanitarian gesture, Bangladesh hosts over a million displaced persons from across the border. India joins international community in appreciating this powerful statement,” he added.‘Centre deeply regrets loss of life’: Amit Shah at LS on Nagaland civilian killingsUnion home minister Amit Shah on Monday spoke about the civilian killings in Nagaland's Mon district that caused the death of as many as 13 civilians. He said the incident was a case of “mistaken identity” and that the situation is “under control” now. “Indian Army has given its own statement where they have regretted death of civilians and are inquiring at highest level,” he informed the House, adding that the government is keeping a close eye on developments in the northeastern state. Read more here.Important to administer Covid vaccine booster jabs to healthcare and frontline workers: IMA president amid OmicronAs Omicron Covid-19 variant cases in India have risen to 17, president of Indian Medical Association (IMA) Dr JA Jayalal said that it's vital to administer vaccine booster doses to all “healthcare workers and frontline workers” to augment their immunity. “We are lacking in the area of manpower as NEET-PG counseling [is] getting delayed; PM should interfere to stop this delay,” he told ANI.Nepal confirms two cases of Omicron Covid-19 variantNepal has become the latest country to confirm cases of Omicron Covid-19 variant, after two people were detected with the strain, news agency ANI reported. Notably, Omicron was discovered in South Africa last month and has so far spread to more than 30 countries, including India.Indian Army sets up court of inquiry into Nagaland civilian killingsIndian Army has set up a court of inquiry into the Nagaland civilian killings. It is to be led by a major general. Read more here.Further containment measures after consulting experts, says Karnataka CM amid Omicron scareAmid fresh concerns over the Omicron variant of Coronavirus, Karnataka chief minister Basvaraj Bommai said on Monday the government is closely monitoring the situation in the state and will take decisions on enforcing further containment measures after consulting the experts, reported news agency PTI.Civil aviation minister calls high-level meeting after mismanagement of crowd at Delhi airportUnion civil aviation minister Jyotiraditya M. Scindia on Monday called a high-level meeting over the mismanagement of crowd at Delhi Airport. The meeting was attended by officials from Delhi Airport, Airports Authority of India, Immigration department and Covid-19 testing lab company, reported news agency ANI.Aim is to win Punjab assembly election, says Amarinder SinghFormer Punjab chief minister Amarinder Singh, who recently floated the Punjab Lok Congress party, said his aim is to win the upcoming assembly elections in the state, reported news agency ANI.Afghan situation has wider repercussions for Central Asia, says EAM JaishankarExternal affairs minister S Jaishankar said on Monday that that the situation in Afghanistan has wider repercussions for the Central Asian region and added that both India and Russia have a common interest in ASEAN centrality, reported news agency ANI.All international passengers from affected nations being tested in Delhi, reports ANI citing Satyendar JainAll international passengers from affected nations are being tested, Delhi health minister Satyendar Jain informed on Monday. “27 have been brought to LNJP hospital so far, 17 of them tested positive & 10 are their close contacts. Genome sequencing of 12 out of 17 people done & 1 of them has been detected to have Omicron,” he added.India seals AK-203 assault rifle deal with Russia, which will replace INSAS used by Indian ArmyIndia has inked a major deal worth over ₹5,100 crore with Russia, for producing AK-203 assault rifle deal within the country, people familair with the development said on Monday.Myanmar ousted leader Aung San Suu Kyi sentenced to 4 years in prison, reports AFPA Myanmar court on Monday jailed ousted civilian leader Aung San Suu Kyi for four years for inciting dissent against the military and breaching Covid rules, AFP quoted a spokesman for the ruling junta as saying.‘Vaccination campaigns on Dec 8, 15, 22 in MP, committed to 100% vaccination by Dec’: CM ChouhanSo far 94% of people in the state have got the 1st dose & 70% of people have been vaccinated with the 2nd dose as well. We are committed to achieving 100% vaccination in the state by Dec 2021. A state-wide vaccination campaign will be organized on Dec 8,15 & 22 for this purpose.Madhya Pradesh chief minister Shivraj Singh Chouhan said that the state was committed to working towards 100% vaccination by the end of this year and vaccination campaigns would be held in the state on December 8, 15 and 22 for this purpose. PM Modi holds meeting with ministers to discuss various issues including Nagaland firing incident, reports ANIPrime Minister Narendra Modi held a meeting with his top ministers in Parliament to discuss various issues including the Nagaland firing incident, reports ANI. Russian foreign minister Sergey Lavrov meets Jaishankar ahead of 2+2 summitExternal affairs minister Dr. S Jaishankar said on Monday the partnership between India and Russia is special and unique. “I am confident that our discussions today will be very fruitful. The annual India-Russia summit is taking place after a gap of two years today.” he added, during his opening remarks ahead of the 2+2 summit.Amit Shah to give statement on Nagaland firing incident in both Houses of ParliamentUnion home minister Amit Shah will give a statement on the Nagaland firing incident in both the Houses of the Parliament on Monday. Read moreShashi Tharoor steps down as host of Sansad TV showCongress MP Shashi Tharoor on Monday said he has decided to step down as the host of the Sansad TV show ‘To the Point’ until the suspension of 12 opposition members of the Rajya Sabha is revoked. Read more43 students test positive for Covid-19 in Telangana collegeAt least 43 students from Chalmeda Anand Rao Institute of Medical Sciences, Bommakal, have tested positive for Covid-19, news agency ANI quoted district medical health officer, Karimnagar, as saying.India reports 8,306 new Covid-19 cases in 24 hoursIndia has reported 8,306 new cases and 8,834 recoveries in the last 24 hours, according to data by the Union ministry of health and family welfare. The active caseload now stands at 98,416, lowest in 552 days.  Read more8 dead after fire breaks out at Mingtai Power Plant in China, reports ANIAt least eight people died and five were injured after a fire broke out at the Mingtai Power Plant in China's northern Shanxi Province, news agency ANI reported on Monday, citing local media. US likely to announce diplomatic boycott of Beijing Winter Olympics, reports ANIThe Biden administration is expected to announce this week that no US government officials will attend the 2022 Beijing Winter Olympic Games, implementing a diplomatic boycott of the games, reports news agency ANI, citing CNN.Russian President Vladimir Putin to arrive in India shortly to hold 21st India-Russia summitRussian President Vladimir Putin to arrive in India shortly to hold the 21st annual India-Russia summit with Prime Minister Narendra Modi.IMD predicts light-intensity rain in Noida, BhiwadiThe Indian Meterological Department has predicted light-intensity rain/drizzle in adjoining areas of NCR ( Chhapraula, Noida, Dadri, Greater Noida, Ballabhgarh) and Bhiwadi (Rajasthan) during the next 2 hours, reported news agency ANI.India's Omicron tally rises to 21The Omicron variant has been spreading fast in India. In the last one week, the number of people who contracted the new variant of the coronavirus rose to 21. Read more||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/breaking-news-live-updates-december-6-2021-101638749403803.html
