08-12-2021||India||Rawat never cared for his popularity, dog-loving general took hard decisions||India’s first chief of defence staff General Bipin Rawat, 63, was an outspoken military leader who took pride in his convictions, took hard decisions at the cost of becoming unpopular in certain circles, thought outside the box and was known to challenge status quo, people who have known him for decades said.He was also a dog lover and a rare general who didn’t play golf. Rawat had survived a chopper crash in February 2015 in India’s North-east.His leadership and courage were acknowledged on foreign soil too.General Rawat epitomised military professionalism like no one else, said a retired three-star general who was among Rawat’s best friends. “He was driven by his own convictions. He took strong decisions even if they were not popular. The organisation’s interests were always topmost for him and he didn’t really care about his own popularity,” said Lieutenant General BS Sandhu (retd), who knew Rawat for more than 45 years and was his course mate at the Khadakwasla-based National Defence Academy.Sandhu’s wife Kuka and Madhulika attended Daulat Ram College in Delhi together, and like their husbands they too were best friends.Rawat’s previous appointments included those of the army chief, army vice chief, Southern Army commander, corps commander in the North-east and division commander in Kashmir.But the assignment he really loved talking about most was his tenure as the commander of United Nations’ North Kivu Brigade in the Democratic Republic of Congo in the late 2000s. “It was one of my most memorable assignments. I am glad I could make a difference there,” Rawat told this correspondent a few years ago.When Rawat took charge of the brigade, things weren’t going too well for the world’s costliest peacekeeping mission, known by its French acronym MONUC. The locals were contemptuous of UN peacekeepers, questioning what difference they had made and accusing the mission of doing little to protect them. Angry crowds would often hurl stones at UN vehicles on the streets of Goma, the capital of North Kivu and where the Indian brigade is based.“We were not fighting with our equipment, despite Chapter VII of the UN Charter authorising the use of force in some scenarios. We have decided to fight with our equipment,” Rawat told this correspondent who was covering the conflict in eastern Congo in 2008.Rawat reworked the velvet-glove strategy to an iron fist within a month of his arrival, frequently authorising the use of attack helicopters to strafe positions held by rebel groups responsible for civilian deaths, recruiting child soldiers and displacing millions of people. He was able to control the situation quickly.Under Rawat’s leadership, the Indian brigade saved a key Congolese province from being overrun by rebels. Lieutenant General Babacar Gaye, then Force Commander of the UN mission in the Congo, wrote in the commendation awarded to Rawat that it was due to his “leadership, courage and experience” that North Kivu’s capital Goma never fell, the country’s eastern region was stabilised and the main rebel group was forced to come to the negotiating table.General Rawat was a man with tremendous moral courage, said Lieutenant General Ajai Singh, who heads the Andaman and Nicobar Command and reported directly to CDS. “He was an exceptional military leader, with a rare, larger vision for integrated war fighting,” Singh said.From changing the face of UN peacekeeping to closely supervising India’s two publicly acknowledged surgical strikes on foreign soil, Rawat brought enormous experience to the table as India’s first CDS, something acknowledged by Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Wednesday.Son of a three-star general, Rawat was commissioned into the army in December 1978 after graduating from the Dehradun-based Indian Military Academy where he was awarded the coveted Sword of Honour for exceptional performance. He was commissioned into the 5/11 Gorkha Rifles.The National Democratic Alliance government superseded two top generals — Lieutenant Generals Praveen Bakshi and PM Hariz — to appoint him army chief in 2016. Rawat’s experience in Jammu and Kashmir and the Northeast tipped the scales in his favour.In a statement, the Indian Army said Rawat was a visionary who initiated far reaching reforms in the military’s higher defence organisation, and was instrumental in creating the foundation of India’s joint theatre commands and giving impetus to the increased indigenisation of military equipment, a legacy which will be carried on and strengthened by successive generations.
08-12-2021||India||Biplab Kumar Deb raises bar for BJP in Tripura, says aim for 70% votes in 2023||AGARTALA: Fresh from his landslide victory in Tripura’s civic polls last month, chief minister Biplab Kumar Deb on Wednesday raised the bar for the ruling Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP), telling his party to target 70% votes in the 2023 assembly elections.“Our vote share has been rising as people have voted for us time and again. We received a 60% vote share in the civic polls and we will score 70% votes in the 2023 Assembly polls, “ Biplab Kumar Deb said at the swearing-in ceremony of the newly-elected councillors of the Agartala Municipal Corporation in the Tripura capital. The BJP won all 51 seats in the Agartala Municipal Corporation.The BJP ended up with 329 seats of a total of 334 in the civic body elections, including 112 seats which the party won without contest. On the seats that people voted, BJP received 59% of the total votes cast by people. The Communist Party of India (Marxist) was a distant second with 18.1% and three seats while the Trinamool Congress won just one seat and 16.4% of the votes polled.Biplab Kumar Deb advised municipal councillors to dedicate themselves in the service of people by following what he called the three ‘S’ formula and triple ‘N’ formula and also stressed to review their work periodically and expand their future path. By triple ‘ S’ formula, Deb meant Sambad (communication), Swabhab (behaviour) and Sadachar (good conduct) and by triple ‘N’, he meant Niyat (intention), Niti (policy) and Niyam (rules).According to news agency ANI, he continued: “There is no shortcut. Do good work and you will see the future doors full of opportunities open for you. Agartala smart city must emerge as the smartest city in the country. Integrated Command and Control Centre has been opened for the first time in Agartala in all the North-Eastern states. We shall work collectively in that direction,” said Deb.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/biplab-kumar-deb-raises-bar-for-bjp-in-tripura-says-aim-for-70-votes-in-2023-101638986002661.html
08-12-2021||India||Delhi Police spent over ₹7 crore for security during farmers' stir: MoS Home||A total of ₹7.38 crore was, so far, spent by the Delhi Police to provide security at various sites of the national capital where the year-long farmers' protest was underway, Union minister of state (MoS) for home affairs Nityanand Rai informed Parliament on Wednesday.Rai was replying to a question by MP M Mohamed Abdulla regarding the amount spent by Delhi Police since August 2020 to provide security at the farmers' protest sites along Delhi’s borders.When asked about the number of farmers who lost their lives in the ongoing stir, and if the central government has announced any compensation for their families, Rai said police and public order are state subjects as per the Seventh Commission of the Constitution of India.Also Read | ‘Protests will continue till…’ What farmer leader Charuni said after key meetingThe Union minister added that respective state governments - Delhi and the states it shares borders with where the agitation has been active, in this case, Uttar Pradesh and Haryana, maintain information regarding the deaths of farmers and that the matter pertaining to compensation in such cases are also dealt with by them.Also Read | Rahul asks Centre to compensate kin of farmers who died in protestsThe farmers' protest has been active at Delhi's Ghazipur, Tikri and Singhu borders. The Delhi Police had placed barricades, put up concrete walls and even installed nails on the ground to stop protesting farmers -- who were mostly from Punjab and Haryana -- from entering the national capital during the agitation.Also Read | Ghazipur border: Police remove barricades at farmers’ protest siteThere has been a massive uproar over the Centre’s silence on compensation and statement that it does not have a list of the deceased farmers. Congress leader Rahul Gandhi has said his party is ready to share a list containing names of 700 farmers who died during the agitation.(With ANI inputs)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/delhi-police-spent-over-rs-7-crore-for-security-during-farmers-stir-mos-home-101638963033146.html
08-12-2021||India||Need to expand fleet, improve manufacturing to counter Pakistan, China: IAF chief||China poses a significant challenge to the realisation of India’s strategic goals, while Pakistan has upgraded its combat aircraft fleet and forward airbases, the Indian Air Force (IAF) chief said on Wednesday, outlining key threats facing the country. To counter these challenges, the IAF needs to rapidly modernise, expand its fleet and improve indigenous manufacturing capability, Air Chief Marshal VR Chaudhari said while addressing an event organised by the Centre for Air Power Studies. “In my assessment, China possesses a more significant and long-term challenge to the realisation of India’s strategic goals,” he said. China continues to display its economic and military might and its assertiveness is bound to grow, he said, adding this will increase “contestation and competition” in the economic domain. China will also try to tie India down by keeping the country engaged on the unsettled border, he said. Beijing’s aggressive intent is most visible in the rapid enhancement of the People’s Liberation Army Air Force’s operational infrastructure, such as additional airfields in the Tibet Autonomous Region. China has also deployed air defence units, advanced aircraft and drones at these facilities, he said.Force multipliers such as rocket and strategic forces are “redefining the contours of future warfare”, Chaudhari noted.At the same time, India continues to be in a “no war no peace” situation on the border with Pakistan, which is unlikely to ditch its Kashmir-oriented strategy for the foreseeable future, the IAF chief said.The Pakistan Air Force (PAF) is equipping itself with advanced aircraft and upgrading air defence capabilities. It has also built up 24 main and forward operating bases and six satellite bases, and this provides it with greater flexibility to “influence battles across a large spectrum and larger volume of areas”, he said. The Pakistani military has formulated a new concept of war fighting called “triple R” or rearticulate, reorganise and relocate. “Strategically, they are making a transition from fighting a predominantly defensive war to adapting a more aggressive approach for an offensive defence under the nuclear umbrella,” Chaudhari said.For the IAF, all of this translates into a need for a higher counter-air effort to ensure minimum interference from the Pakistani side and to gain requisite control of the airspace, he contended. The IAF needs to rapidly modernise, expand its fleet of combat aircraft and improve indigenous manufacturing capability, Chaudhari said. While budget will remain a constraint, the prioritisation of procurements for key combat elements becomes very critical. Training and equipment is needed to fight and win tomorrow’s war and India must not lose focus in attempt to distribute finances for the defence sector evenly, he said.“There is a need to brainstorm and find solutions to further our national interests in this constantly evolving regional and global security environment,” Chaudhari said.“In an increasingly volatile, uncertain, complex and ambiguous geo-political environment, there is a strong linkage between security and development and this is where the armed forces come in,” he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/need-to-expand-fleet-improve-manufacturing-to-counter-pakistan-china-iaf-chief-101638983782771.html
08-12-2021||India||Meat-climate debate is a red herring in India||There is increasing realization that meat-based diets lead to harmful emissions. Many scientific studies show the world stands to gain if people either give up or even reduce eating meat. For example, a 2019 article in the Nature journal, citing a report by the United Nation’s Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change, said that if the world were to shift to a completely plant-based diet, the reduction in greenhouse gas emissions would be equivalent to what could be achieved by replacing all fossil fuel-based power plants with nuclear power plants in 2018. To be sure, such estimates have been questioned and doubts remain whether private choices such as food habits can be changed by government policies, especially in the first world. However, the meat-climate debate is pretty much a red herring for a country like India, which faces a different challenge when it comes to protein consumption. Here are four charts to explain this.Meat has a minuscule presence in Indian dietsA 2018 HT analysis used data from the 2015-16 National Family and Health Survey (NFHS) to show that less than 2% of Indians consumed chicken or meat as part of their daily diet. This is different from the prevalence of meat in diets in the advanced capitalist countries, or even countries such as China. Data from the United Nation’s Food and Agricultural Organisation shows this clearly. Per capita protein intake from meat in India is a small fraction of what it is in countries such as the US and China. A Carbon Brief interactive shows that South Asia ranks lowest in the world in terms of red meat consumption and could sustainably have a diet made up of almost twice as much red meat, according to EAT-Lancet. South Asians also eat the least amount of poultry out of any of the world’s regions, the brief said. The EAT-Lancet Commission on Food, Planet, Health brought together 37 scientists from across the globe to look at the question of feeding a future population of 10 billion people a healthy diet within planetary boundaries.Lack of meat in diets is not just a reflection of low-income levels in IndiaOne of the major reasons why Indians do not consume a lot of meat is that they cannot afford it. Food consumption accounts for almost 40% of the average household spending in India. As much as 40% of the food budget in Indian households goes towards buying cereals and vegetables. The share of egg, fish and meat is just above 10%.That meat consumption increases as incomes rise is a well-established fact. This is best seen in China, which has seen a massive spike in per capita intake of meat in its high-growth period (see Chart 1). The India story, however, might not be the same, given the cultural and religious factors that encourage vegetarianism. To be sure, such preferences influencing meat consumption is a vexed issue in India. For example, a 2015 Mint story showed that an estimated 12.5 million Hindus also consumed beef or buffalo meat, dispelling a widely held notion that only Muslims ate this meat.On the other hand, the 2015-16 NFHS data does offer some evidence to suggest that for a section of the population, meat consumption declines as incomes increase. It suggests some sort of a Sanskritisation effect, and calls for more research. However, what can also be said on the basis of this data is that India’s future meat consumption need not increase at a pace as fast as China as per capita incomes rise.India’s problem is too little protein, not too much of meat-based proteinWhile advanced countries debate the merits and feasibility of reducing meat consumption and shifting to plant-based protein diets, India has a more pressing problem at hand. Indians do not get enough protein in their diets. The Indian Council of Medical Research has a prescribed 60 grams of protein per day for men. For women, this number varies from 78 grams per day during pregnancy to 55 grams for non-pregnant women. According to the 2011-12 Consumption Expenditure Survey of the National Sample Survey – these are the latest available numbers – per capita protein intake was lower than 60 grams per day prescribed for more than half of the population. Indians also get a majority of their protein from cereals, rather than lentils or meat.Making pulses more affordable will be good for both nutrition and the climateEven though India does not need to cut down on its emissions due to meat consumption, it can still contribute to the cause if pulses become more affordable. A 2018 article by Priya Rampal published in the Food and Nutrition Bulletin, a peer-reviewed international journal, says that daily pulse consumption in India was lower than the prescribed norm of 40 grams per capita per day for 90% of the rural population. The article also says, “The consumption of protein from animal foods and milk and milk products is positively related to the price of pulses,” which means that “as price of pulses increases, the sample shifts to consumption of protein from animal sources and milk and milk products.” “it becomes important to contain volatility in pulse prices given that it is a major source of plant protein,” the article says, and points to higher consumption of protein in states that distribute lentils in the public distribution system.These findings, when read with the fact that India imports a large quantity of pulses, and pulse prices show a far greater price volatility than meat and milk products (the other major sources of protein), underline one of the low-hanging fruits in the pursuit of nutrition and climate goals in India. However, it needs to be emphasized that a mindless pursuit or forcing of vegetarianism without supporting pulse consumption will only make India’s protein deficiency crisis worse as well as hurting the incomes of mostly poor farmers and small businessmen (unlike the big businesses running the meat-industrial complex in the West) involved in India’s livestock and poultry economy.
08-12-2021||India||Employers have developed more sophisticated modes of exploitation: Advocate Gayathri Poti||In earlier times, exploitation of labour was very “visceral and unambiguous” and one could understand the same just from looking at the arrangement, but today “employers have developed more sophisticated modes of exploitation” that only a “trained eye” will be able to spot, advocate Gayathri Poti said.She was speaking on the occasion of Justice P Subramonian Poti Memorial Lecture at the Subramonian Poti Hall at Kerala Club in New Delhi.Justice Poti served as the former chief justice of Kerala and Gujarat high courts, who was popularly known for his rulings for the poor people of the country. Notably, advocate Gayathri is his granddaughter.The memorial lecture saw advocate Gayathri along with advocate Prasanth VG – both practising in Bengaluru, talk about “Contract Labour and Law – Indian Experiments.” The event was organised by Kerala Club president Omchery NN Pillai and other members, and saw the attendance of Armed Forces Tribunal chairperson Justice Rajendra Menon as the chief guest.During the memorial lecture, advocate Gayathri shed light on the gig economy of India, which is driven by the digital advancement of the modern times. Explaining who gig workers are, she gave reference of gig workers in popular platforms such as Uber, Ola, Zomato, Swiggy and Big Basket delivery firms, among others.How gig workers face exploitation?Advocate Gayathri highlighted how people were heavily dependent on workers of Uber, Zomato and Swiggy, among others, during the lockdown induced by the first and the second wave of coronavirus disease (Covid-19) in India. “You would assume that these workers had some sort of protection or some benefit accruing out of their employment apart from their salaries but unfortunately that is not the case,” advocate Gayathri said, adding that the workers were termed as ‘independent contractors’.Explaining the problem behind such a term, she noted that such classification as opposed to a regular employee, refrains the gig workers from availing of regular protection that employers are obligated to offer under the labour enactments.“So, a gig worker does not have the right to any kind of insurance including health insurance, sick leaves, paid holidays, pension and gratuity or provident fund benefits,” she said, stressing on the fact that several of these workers hail from the economically weaker sections (EWS) of the society.Why does exploitation happen among gig workers?Advocate Gayathri said that on a superficial level, it may appear as if the relationship between gig workers and their employers is not traditional since one can choose when to login to the app and when to start working, among others.“This is precisely what is said by a lot of these companies – they say that their liability is very limited and that they are not responsible for the welfare of these workers because the company connects the gig worker with the customer by providing them with the technology aspect and hence, these gig-workers aren’t employed by these platforms,” she added during the event.She said that even the contracts of the gig workers are penned in a way that would show as if the employer doesn’t have any role to the play, and the final agreement is between the worker and the customer.The lawyer mentioned that digital platforms have adequate large resources at their disposal and hence, their contracts for the gig workers are drafted in such a manner that it protects the firm from the chance of any employment liability.“This is a modern issue of exploitation and the question is whether there’s a planned subversion by the employers to avoid having to provide employment benefits under various enactments,” advocate Gayathri noted.Is there a solution to eradicate exploitation of gig workers?Speaking about how gig workers can be classified by their employers, advocate Gayathri referred to two cases handled by her grandfather Justice Poti. While one case throws light on a ruling by Justice Poti 35 years ago wherein the court noted that there was a “planned subversion of the laws” on part of the employer and also a “deliberate attempt to avoid falling under [labour] laws.” The case was betwee Lokh Adhikar Singh versus the State of Gujrat and others in which Singh – a society focussed on the upgradation of social and democratic rights, approached the court claiming that Surat’s textile workers were being made to work in horrible conditions and their poverty was being exploited.Meanwhile, the other case was Rohit Vasavacia versus Indian Farmers Fertilizers Cooperative Limited (IFFCO) in which two of the firm’s labourers approached the court alleging that the contract labourers hired by contractors to work in the factory were deplorable. A probe by a court-appointed panel found that labourers were “overworked, wages weren’t paid on time and even if they were, it was a lot less than the minimum wage.”In the second matter, Justice Poti ordered the production of several of the workers to take their statements directly, and also asked the court-appointed committee to make arrangements to pay wages to all those who wanted to leave the IFFCO factory in the meantime.“As a consequence, during the pendency of the proceedings itself, the workers witnessed a drastic improvement in regard to their work conditions as the contractors did not want implicate themselves any further,” advocate Gayathri mentioned, saying that the contractors obtained licenses under the contract labour law, and the workers’ food quality improved too, among others.She said that in both the cases, the contractors argued that they had no real obligation towards the workers and that the latter have been working “voluntarily” and could depart anytime they wanted. “Justice Poti said that forced labour was not restricted to the traditional understanding where workers were physically restrained from leaving the work, it would have to include those instances where persons were financially/economically compelled to perform work in inhuman conditions without the safeguards and amenities available to them under the law,” advocate Gayathri pointed out.She explained that in case of gig workers too, the voluntary work is a point often raised by digital app-based platforms. “In India, under the new proposed Labour Code, the central government, unlike earlier, is empowered to frame welfare scheme for such unorganised worker, including gig workers that [consists of] insurance coverage, maternity and health benefits, retirement benefits, etc but of course but unfortunately, the enactment and the welfare schemes have not come into force as of yet,” advocate Gayathri highlighted.What teachings did advocate Gayathri imbibe from her grandfather?Lovingly known as ‘ajju’ to her, advocate Gayathri said that the last one moth proved to be fruitful in rendering her a new insight into her grandfather – Justice Poti. “I was 5 when he passed away and while I had learnt about his landmark judgments and his general achievements, it’s only after the last month’s research that I truly realized how passionate he was in his relentless pursuit of justice for the most underprivileged in society,” she said during the memorial at Kerala Club.She said that her ajju often said that his experiences as the lawyer showed that there is “always a society behind each client.” “Whenever a client approached him with a problem, Justice Poti would go beyond just the problem at hand and evaluate the background from which the client came because he knew that a lot of these issues were not just an issue faced by that individual litigant but rather an issue faced by society at large,” advocate Gayathri added about her grandfather.Advocate Gayathri said that she hopes to contribute “at least a fraction” of what Justice Poti did for the legal profession in India and to the society at large.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/business/where-does-exploitation-in-the-age-of-gig-economy-stand-lawyer-answers-101638980608295.html
08-12-2021||India||CDS Bipin Rawat, his wife to be cremated in Delhi Cantonment on Friday: Report||The cremation of chief of defence staff General Bipin Rawat and his wife Madhulika, who died in a chopper crash along with 11 others in Tamil Nadu earlier in the day, will be performed on Friday in Delhi Cantonment.According to agency inputs, their mortal remains are expected to reach Delhi by a military plane from Coimbatore on Thursday by air, after a wreath-laying ceremony at Wellington.The bodies would be brought to the CDS’ residence where people would be allowed to pay their last respect from 11am to 2pm, followed by a funeral procession which will start from Kamraj Marg to Brar Square crematorium in Delhi Cantonment.Also read | CDS General Rawat’s shocking demise throws up questions on successionThe Indian Air Force (IAF) copter carrying Gen Rawat, appointed as CDS in 2019, and his entourage crashed near Coonoor in the southern state, killing all except one. The lone survivor, Group Captain Varun Singh SC, Directing Staff at DSSC, is reportedly being rushed to Bengaluru in a critical condition after undergoing treatment at a nearby military hospital.Also read | President, PM lead tributes to one of nation's bravest sons"With deep regret, it has now been ascertained that Gen Bipin Rawat, Mrs Madhulika Rawat and 11 other persons on board have died in the unfortunate accident," the IAF said in a tweet. Rawat was on a visit to Defence Services Staff College (DSSC), Wellington to address the faculty and student officers of the staff course when the fatal accident happened.Also read | General Bipin Rawat loved sweets, fauj and was wary of ChinaThe IAF said a Court of Inquiry has been ordered into the accident, involving a Mi-17VH helicopter which took off from the Sulur IAF Station in nearby Coimbatore.(With agency inputs)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/cds-bipin-rawat-his-wife-to-be-cremated-in-delhi-cantonment-on-friday-101638980577596.html
08-12-2021||India||CDS General Rawat’s shocking demise throws up questions on succession||The shocking demise of India’s first chief of defence staff (CDS) General Bipin Rawat in a helicopter crash on Wednesday will have direct implications for the country’s top military hierarchy and the government will have to move swiftly to announce a succession plan at a time India is locked in a border standoff with China, top officials said.“The situation is unprecedented as General Rawat was the country’s first CDS. The government will have to select a top officer and appoint him as CDS. The succession line-up in the three services is broadly known but not so in the case of CDS as it’s a new appointment,” said one of the officials cited above.Watch: IAF chopper crash: Who is Grp Capt Varun Singh, sole survivor of crash which killed Gen Bipin Rawat?Army chief General Manoj Mukund Naravane has become the senior-most military officer in the country after Rawat’s demise. Indian Air Force chief Air Chief Marshal Vivek Ram Chaudhari and navy chief Admiral R Hari Kumar are both around two years junior to him.There is a strong possibility of Naravane being named as the next CDS if the government follows the seniority principle, said a second official. “If Naravane is named the next CDS, the post of army chief will fall vacant. The government will have to appoint a new army chief. Rawat’s death will have a cascading effect on the succession line-up of the armed forces,” he added.Army vice chief Lieutenant General CP Mohanty and Northern Army commander Lieutenant General YK Joshi, who are both course-mates, are the senior-most officers in the army after General Naravane.According to a key recommendation made by the Shekatkar Committee on enhancing the military’s combat potential, the government should choose the CDS from among the three service chiefs. Naravane will be the frontrunner for the top job if the government goes by that recommendation made by an 11-member expert panel, headed by Lieutenant General DB Shekatkar (retd).“The government will have to appoint the new CDS as soon as possible keeping in mind the security challenges India faces from China and Pakistan,” Shekatkar said.Naravane is due for retirement next April but that may not happen in the changed circumstances. Many in the security establishment believe that the first two or three CDS appointments should be from the army as the security challenges the country faces are along the borders with the two adversaries.However, making top appointments is the government’s prerogative. The possibility of deep selection cannot be ruled out as was done when Rawat was appointed army chief almost five years back, said a third official.The National Democratic Alliance government superseded two top generals — Lieutenant Generals Praveen Bakshi and PM Hariz — to appoint him army chief on December 31, 2016. Rawat’s experience in Jammu and Kashmir and the Northeast tipped the scales in his favour.Rawat was spearheading the military’s theaterisation drive to enhance the effectiveness of the armed forces and reshape the conduct of future operations. Rawat took over as CDS on December 31, 2019, after serving as army chief for a full three-year term. He held the four-star rank for almost five years, making him the longest serving four-star general in India.As CDS, Rawat wore multiple hats --- he was the permanent chairman of the chiefs of staff committee (COSC), headed the department of military affairs (DMA), and was the single-point military adviser to the defence minister.Navy chief Admiral R Hari Kumar last week said the creation of DMA and the post of CDS two years ago was “the single most important” higher defence organisation reform since Independence.The appointment of a CDS was backed by a group of ministers after recommendations made by the K Subrahmanyam-led Kargil Review Committee (KRC) that was constituted in the immediate aftermath of the 1999 Kargil war to examine lapses that allowed Pakistani soldiers to occupy strategic heights, the initial sluggish Indian response, and suggest measures to strengthen national security.
08-12-2021||India||Raut says Sena may form alliance with Congress in UP, Goa after meet with Priyanka||Shiv Sena MP Sanjay Raut said on Wednesday his party may form an alliance with the Congress for the upcoming Assembly elections in Uttar Pradesh and Goa. He made the statement after a “positive” meeting in Delhi with Congress general secretary in charge of UP Priyanka Gandhi.The Congress and Shiv Sena are ruling partners in Maharashtra, the third ally being Sharad Pawar’s Nationalist Congress Party (NCP).“It was a positive meeting. We are thinking of working together in Uttar Pradesh and Goa,” Raut was quoted as saying by news agency ANI.It was a positive meeting. We are thinking of working together in Uttar Pradesh and Goa: Shiv Sena leader Sanjay Raut on his meeting with Congress leader Priyanka Gandhi Vadra in Delhi today pic.twitter.com/42hMtWlJZXA day ago, the Sena MP said there can be no opposition front without the Congress after holding talks with party leader Rahul Gandhi in the national capital.The latest meetings with the Gandhi siblings came in the wake of Trinamool Congress supremo Mamata Banerjee making an all-out effort to side-line the grand old party to stitch a national-level opposition front beyond the Congress-led United Progressive Alliance (UPA).Earlier, Raut had claimed the West Bengal chief minister was contemplating an alliance excluding the Congress following the latter's two-day trip to Mumbai where he met Sena leader Aaditya Thackeray, Raut and the NCP supremo.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/sanjay-raut-says-sena-may-form-alliance-with-congress-in-up-goa-101638976716487.html
08-12-2021||India||‘Great patriot, dedicated hero’: World pays tribute to General||The US and Russia condoled the death of India’s Chief of Defence Staff (CDS), Gen Bipin Rawat, in a helicopter crash on Wednesday and recalled his contributions to strengthening defence ties with both countries. Israel and Pakistan were also among the countries that conveyed condolences at the death of India’s first CDS. Rawat, who served as the Indian Army chief before being named the CDS, and his wife were among 13 people killed when an Indian Air Force helicopter crashed in Tamil Nadu. A statement issued by the US embassy extended condolences to the families of Rawat and others killed in the crash and said he had “spearheaded a historic period of transformation in the Indian military” as the country’s first CDS. “He was a strong friend and partner of the United States, overseeing a major expansion of India’s defence cooperation with the US military,” the statement said. It recalled that Rawat had spent five days in September travelling throughout the US to discuss military developments and opportunities “to enhance our cooperation with like-minded countries”. The statement added: “His legacy will continue on.” Russian ambassador Nikolay Kudashev expressed his deepest regret at Rawat’s death in a tweet and said that “India has lost its great patriot and dedicated hero”. “Russia has lost a very close friend, who played a big role in promotion of our bilateral special and privileged strategic partnership. Grieving together with India. Goodbye, friend! Farewell, commander!” Kudashev said in another tweet. Israeli defence minister Benny Gantz described Rawat as a “true partner” of the Israeli Defence Forces (IDF) and Israel’s defence establishment and said in a tweet that he had “contributed greatly to the strengthening of security relations between the two countries”. Gantz extended condolences on behalf of Israel’s defence establishment and conveyed his personal grief at the loss of Rawat and the others. Israeli ambassador Naor Gilon, a military veteran, said in a tweet that he was “deeply shocked and saddened” by the death of Rawat and the others in the helicopter crash. “The people of Israel stand side by side with the Indian people & government in mourning the death of Indian heroes,” he added. The Pakistani military media arm’s official Twitter handle said in a tweet that the chairman of the Joint Chiefs of Staff Committee, Gen Nadeem Raza, and the army chief , Gen Qamar Bajwa, had expressed their condolences on the “tragic death of CDS General Bipin Rawat” and his wife and the “loss of precious lives in a helicopter crash”. The Pakistan Air Force chief, Air Chief Marshal Zaheer Ahmed Baber Sidhu, also expressed his condolences at the death of Rawat and the others in the crash.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/us-russia-condole-gen-rawat-s-death-recall-how-he-strengthened-defence-ties-101638977363196.html
08-12-2021||India||Congress president Sonia Gandhi calls off birthday celebrations over CDS Rawat’s demise||Congress president Sonia Gandhi said she will not take part in celebrations on her birthday tomorrow in the wake of the sudden demise of chief of defence staff General Bipin Rawat in a chopper crash on Wednesday. She further urged party workers to strictly avoid any festivities, following which preparations for a programme were called off.Issuing an advisory, Congress general secretary KC Venugopal wrote on Twitter, “Hon'ble Congress President has decided not to celebrate her birthday, tomorrow the 9th December. Urging party workers and supporters to strictly avoid any celebrations.”Lok Sabha MP Manickam Tagore said all celebrations have been canceled as a “mark of respect for the brave general”.“Another example from Congress president about her sensitivity. In respect of #CDSBipinRawat Congress party decide to cancel celebrations as mark of respect for the brave General,” Tagore wrote on the microblogging platform.Also read | IAF chopper crash updates: Mortal remains of CDS Rawat to reach Delhi tomorrowAn Indian Air Force (IAF) helicopter crashed near Coonoor in Tamil Nadu in which General Rawat, his wife Madhulika and 11 others lost their lives.Confirming the deaths, the IAF said, “With deep regret, it has now been ascertained that Gen Bipin Rawat, Mrs Madhulika Rawat and 11 other persons on board have died in the unfortunate accident,” the IAF said.Following this, tributes poured in from several leaders across political parties, besides President Ram Nath Kovind, Vice President Venkaiah Naidu and Prime Minister Narendra Modi.“The nation is shocked & saddened by the passing away of Chief of Defence Staff, General Bipin Rawat. Our heartfelt condolences to his family and friends. We stand with the nation at this time of grief. May he rest in peace,” the Congress said in its official Twitter handle.Party leader Rahul Gandhi called the accident an “unprecedented tragedy” and offered his condolences to the family of Rawat and others who lost their lives.“I extend my condolences to the family of Gen Bipin Rawat and his wife. This is an unprecedented tragedy and our thoughts are with their family in this difficult time. Heartfelt condolences also to all others who lost their lives. India stands united in this grief,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/congress-president-sonia-gandhi-calls-of-birthday-celebrations-over-cds-rawat-s-demise-101638976116670.html
08-12-2021||India||News updates from HT: After CDS Rawat chopper crash, PM Modi chairs CCS meet and all the latest news||Here are today’s top news, analysis, and opinion. Know all about the latest news and other news updates from Hindustan Times.CDS Rawat chopper crash: PM Modi chairs CCS meet, Rajnath, NSA in attendancePrime Minister Narendra Modi on Wednesday chaired a meeting of the Cabinet Committee on Security (CCS) wherein he was briefed about an Indian Air Force (IAF) chopper crash leading to the death of chief of defence staff (CDS) General Bipin Rawat, his wife Madhulika and 11 other defence personnel near Coonoor in Tamil Nadu. Read more.Who is Group Captain Varun Singh? Know about lone survivor of IAF chopper crashThe Indian Air Force (IAF) on Wednesday confirmed that Group Captain Varun Singh is the lone survivor of the Mi-17V5 chopper that crashed near Coonoor in Tamil Nadu, killing India's Chief of Defence Staff General Bipin Rawat. Read more.CDS Rawat’s death: President, PM lead tributes to one of nation's bravest sonsPresident Ram Nath Kovind, Prime Minister Narendra Modi and several other leaders and politicians expressed their grief and shock over the death of chief of defence staff General Bipin Rawat, his wife Madhulika and 11 others in a chopper crash near Coonoor in Tamil Nadu’s Nilgiris district on Wednesday. Read more.India's squad for South Africa Tests announced; Rohit Sharma named vice-captain, Vihari returns, Rahane retainedThe BCCI on Wednesday announced an 18-member Test squad for India's upcoming tour of South Africa. Read more.Amid Omicron scare, is it safe to send kids to schools? A doctor answersWhile schools across the country were gradually moving back to offline mode from digital studies, a new strain of Covid-19 Omicron may interrupt the process. Read more.IAF chopper crash: Anupam Kher remembers meeting CDS Bipin Rawat; Lara Dutta, Yami Gautam share condolencesThe country is in shock over the death of Gen Bipin Rawat, his wife Madhulika Rawat and 11 others on board an Indian Air Force (IAF) chopper which crashed near Coonoor, Tamil Nadu, on Wednesday. Read more.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/news-updates-from-ht-after-cds-rawat-chopper-crash-pm-modi-chairs-ccs-meet-101638974515138.html
08-12-2021||India||HT THIS DAY: December 9, 1956 — Russia win soccer Gold Medal||MELBOURNE - Russia won the Olympic soccer title here today by defeating Yugoslavia 1-0 in the final match of the tournament and took the last Gold Medal of the 1956 Olympics. The match turned into one of the roughest of the tournament with players often nearly coming to blows. Russia, hot favourites for the title from the start of the Games, only just clinched the match after a goalless first half. The only goal came in the ninth minute of the second half when outside-left Anatolii Iliine headed into the net. Eighteen minutes later, Yugoslavia’s inside-left Todor Veselinovic, netted, but he was ruled offside. Yugoslavia, who win the soccer Silver Medal for the third time running, dominated the first half. Their team played better, individually moved the ball faster and generally dictated terms. But they were unable to press home their advantage and the Russians started to press hard from the first minute of the second half. WINNING GOAL Russian forwards crowded the Yugoslav goalmouth and Iliine snatched the winning goal when, he got his boot to a headed pass from Anatolii Issaev, the inside-right. The Yugoslavs lost a lot of their earlier sparkle when their goal in the 18th minute was disallowed. The game then degenerated into little better than a brawl with the crowd continuing to catcall and boo until the final whistle. - Reuters||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/htthisday-december-9-1956-russia-win-soccer-gold-medal-101638975681822.html
08-12-2021||India||CDS Rawat chopper crash: PM Modi chairs CCS meet, Rajnath, NSA in attendance||Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Wednesday chaired a meeting of the Cabinet Committee on Security (CCS) wherein he was briefed about an Indian Air Force (IAF) chopper crash leading to the death of chief of defence staff (CDS) General Bipin Rawat, his wife Madhulika and 11 other defence personnel near Coonoor in Tamil Nadu.Besides Modi, the meeting was attended by defence minister Rajnath Singh, home minister Amit Shah, finance minister Nirmala Sitharaman and external affairs minister S Jaishankar.National security advisor (NSA) Ajit Doval, principal secretary to the Prime Minister PK Misra and cabinet secretary Rajiv Gauba also attended the meeting.Also read | CDS chopper crash turns spotlight on high-profile military air mishapsSources said the top cabinet brass observed two minutes of silence and expressed their condolences on the lives lost in the crash.Earlier in the day, army chief general MM Naravane briefed the defence minister about the crash and related issues. Singh also paid a visit to the late CDS’ residence in Delhi and spoke to his daughter. He is likely to issue a statement on the crash in Parliament on Thursday.Also read | CDS Bipin Rawat’s death: President, PM lead tributes to one of nation's bravest sonsThe CDS was on his way to the Defence Staff College in Wellington when the helicopter crashed near Coonoor. The Indian Air Force (IAF) said a Court of Inquiry has been ordered into the accident.(With inputs from agencies)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/cds-rawat-chopper-crash-pm-modi-chairs-ccs-meet-rajnath-nsa-in-attendance-101638974164332.html
08-12-2021||India||Nagaland deaths: Gaurav Gogoi-led Congress team stopped from meeting victims' kin||A Congress delegation, led by Assam MP Gaurav Gogoi, was stopped on Wednesday at Jorhat airport and was not allowed to proceed towards Mon district in Nagaland to meet family members of civilians who were killed in a botched-up counter-insurgency operation of the security forces last week.Sharing images of their sit-in at the airport, Gogoi said they were illegally being detained and prevented from meeting victims’ families. Gogoi is accompanied by Congress leaders Jitendra Singh Alwar and Ajoy Kumar, all of whom were seen sitting outside the departure gates of the airport in Assam.“Protesting against the illegal detention of Congress delegation at Jorhat and preventing us from traveling to Mon district in Nagaland to meet the families of the victims,” Gogoi wrote on Twitter.“Detained at Jorhat along with the AICC delegation , Assam Police has orders to hold us in Jorhat, Assam and prevent us from traveling to Mon district, Nagaland. Why are we not being allowed to meet the families of the victims,” Gogoi further wrote and tagged Assam chief minister Himanta Biswa Sarma and Union home minister Amit Shah in the tweet.The counter-insurgency operation gone awry in Mon district’s Oting has brought widespread criticism to the security forces as well as the government.The deaths of the civilians have also ignited the debate surrounding the controversial Armed Forces Special Powers Act that allows the forces to function with impunity.The forces had initially fired at a vehicle mistakenly assuming it to be belonging to militants leading to the death of seven coal miners. Soon after, angry villagers reached the spot and set ablaze two vehicles of the security personnel following which the forces fired a few more rounds killing more civilians. The home minister has informed the Lok Sabha that it was a case of mistaken identity and said that the army personnel were carrying out the operation on the basis of inputs which indicated movement of extremists in the Oting area of Mon.“On that basis, 21 commandos laid an ambush in the suspected area. As a vehicle reached there, it was signalled to stop but it started speeding away. On suspicion the vehicle was carrying extremists, the personnel fired at it killing 6 of 8 people,” Shah said. "It was later found to be a case of mistaken identity," Shah added.Nagaland chief minister Neiphiu Rio said that the incidents highlighted the need for removal of AFSPA and said that such incidents tarnish the image of the nation. The army has set up a court of inquiry into the killings of the civilians and said the probe will be headed by a major general.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/nagaland-deaths-gaurav-gogoi-led-cong-team-stopped-from-meeting-victims-kin-101638973001197.html
08-12-2021||India||Serum Institute’s executive director Dr Suresh Jadhav dies in Pune at 72||Serum Institute of India’s (SII) Executive Director Dr Suresh Jadhav passed away in Pune following a brief illness, his family members said on Wednesday. Jadhav, 72, was suffering from renal inefficiency and cancer, his family said. Associated with SII since 1979, Dr Jadhav mainly looked after manufacturing and quality control at the company. “The @SerumInstIndia family and the Indian vaccine industry have lost a guiding light, with the passing of Dr. Suresh Jadhav. My prayers are with his family during these trying times and I thank you all, for your condolences,” Serum Institute of India’s (SII) chief executive officer Adar Poonawalla said. Dr Jadhav was instrumental in setting up the vaccine manufacturing process at Serum’s Manjri unit near Pune where the company has been producing the Covishield vaccine.Kiran Mazumdar-Shaw, Executive Chairperson of Biocon Limited in her condolence message said the biotech world had lost an irreplaceable stalwart. “Shocked to learn of the untimely demise of Dr Suresh Jadhav Executive Director of @SerumInstIndia - The Biotech world has lost an irreplaceable stalwart RIP. Om Shanti,” she tweeted. According to Serum Institute officials, Dr Jadhav was active in the company till recently. The World Health Organisation’s chief scientist Dr Soumya Swaminathan also offered her condolences. “Very sad news. Exceptional lifetime contributions to vaccine development with a huge impact on lives saved. May his soul Rest In Peace @adarpoonawalla, @SerumInstIndia, @GaviSeth@gavi,” she tweeted.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/serum-institute-s-executive-director-dr-suresh-jadhav-dies-in-pune-at-72-101638972321307.html
08-12-2021||India||Who is Group Captain Varun Singh? Know about lone survivor of IAF chopper crash||The Indian Air Force (IAF) on Wednesday confirmed that Group Captain Varun Singh is the lone survivor of the Mi-17V5 chopper that crashed near Coonoor in Tamil Nadu, killing India's Chief of Defence Staff Gen Bipin Rawat.Of a total 14 people, Singh is the only person to have survived the IAF chopper crash, and is currently undergoing treatment at the Military Hospital in Tamil Nadu's Wellington, according to an official statement by the IAF.Group Captain Singh was honoured with the Shaurya Chakra on this year’s Independence Day by President Ram Nath Kovind for saving his LCA Tejas fighter aircraft during an emergency in October 2020. He is the directing staff of the Defence Services Staff College (DSSC) in Wellington in Tamil Nadu.Chief of Defence Staff (CDS) Bipin Rawat, his wife Madhulika Rawat and 11 others, who were among the 14 passengers on board the chopper have been confirmed dead.Also Read | CDS Rawat’s death: President, PM lead tributes to one of nation's bravest sonsTaking to Twitter, the IAF said that CDS Rawat was heading to the DSSC in the Nilgiris district to address the faculty and student officers of the staff course. The chopper comprised as many as four crew members, and nine passengers, including the CDS and his wife.Condolences poured in after the demise of CDS Rawat, his wife and 11 others on board the chopper. Prime Minister Narendra Modi said that he is “deeply anguished” by the news. Hailing CDS Rawat as an “outstanding soldier” and a “true patriot”, the PM added that the former he “served with utmost diligence.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/who-is-group-captain-varun-singh-know-about-lone-survivor-of-iaf-chopper-crash-101638970325763.html
08-12-2021||India||'Served with utmost diligence', Modi extends condolences to kin of CDS Rawat||Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Wednesday extended condolences to the families of Chief of Defence Staff (CDS) General Bipin Rawat and his wife, Madhulika, and 11 others who died in a helicopter crash near Coonoor in Tamil Nadu’s Nilgiris district.“I am deeply anguished by the helicopter crash in Tamil Nadu in which we have lost Gen Bipin Rawat, his wife and other personnel of the Armed Forces. They served India with utmost diligence. My thoughts are with the bereaved families,” the Prime Minister tweeted soon after the Indian Air Force (IAF) confirmed the news of the General's death.I am deeply anguished by the helicopter crash in Tamil Nadu in which we have lost Gen Bipin Rawat, his wife and other personnel of the Armed Forces. They served India with utmost diligence. My thoughts are with the bereaved families.Besides Gen Rawat, there were 13 passengers, including crew members, on the helicopter that with the accident near Coonoor, the IAF confirmed. Gen Rawat was on a visit to the Defence Services Staff College, Wellington (Nilgiri Hills) to address the faculty and student officers. ALSO READ | CDS chopper crash turns spotlight on high-profile military air mishapsThe IAF said Group Captain Varun Singh SC, directing staff at Defence Services Staff College, was the lone survivor of the crash involving a Mi-17V5 chopper, and was undergoing treatment at Military Hospital, Wellington.Posting a photo of himself with the CDS, the Prime Minister said Gen Rawat was a true patriot who “greatly contributed to modernising our armed forces and security apparatus.”As India’s first CDS, Gen Rawat worked on diverse aspects relating to our armed forces including defence reforms. He brought with him a rich experience of serving in the Army. India will never forget his exceptional service.According to the passenger manifest, besides Rawat and his wife, Brigadier LS Lidder, Lt Col Harjinder Singh, Naik Gursewak Singh, Naik Jitendra Kr, Lance Naik Vivek Kumar, Lance Naik B Sai Teja and Havildar Satpal were among those on board. The chopper was being piloted by Wing commander Prithvi Singh Chauhan, the commanding officer of the 109 Helicopter Unit.Rawat had taken over as India’s first chief of defence staff on December 31, 2019, after serving as the army chief for a full three-year term.As soon as news of Gen Rawat's death poured in, senior ministers and political leaders cutting across party lines expressed their grief and shock over the mishap. The mortal remains of Gen Rawat, his wife and other on board personnel are expected to reach the national capital by Thursday evening.According to reports Union defence minister Rajnath Singh is expected to brief Parliament on the chopper crash on Thursday. He has spoken to Prime Minister Narendra Modi before paying a visit to Gen Rawat’s residence in New Delhi.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/cds-general-bipin-rawat-death-iaf-chopper-crash-narendra-modi-reaction-101638968629985.html
08-12-2021||India||CDS Bipin Rawat’s death: President, PM lead tributes to one of nation's bravest sons||President Ram Nath Kovind, Prime Minister Narendra Modi and several other leaders and politicians expressed their grief and shock over the death of chief of defence staff General Bipin Rawat, his wife Madhulika and 11 others in a chopper crash near Coonoor in Tamil Nadu’s Nilgiris district on Wednesday.The President said it is deeply painful to learn of the loss of lives in the crash. Regarding Rawat, he said the nation lost one of its bravest sons and that his four decades of selfless service to the motherland was marked by exceptional gallantry and heroism.“It’s deeply painful for me to learn of the loss of lives in the chopper crash. I join the fellow citizens in paying tributes to each of those who died while performing their duty. My heartfelt condolences to the bereaved families.”“I am shocked and anguished over the untimely demise of Gen. Bipin Rawat and his wife, Madhulika ji. The nation has lost one of its bravest sons. His four decades of selfless service to the motherland was marked by exceptional gallantry and heroism. My condolences to his family,” he wrote on Twitter.Expressing his grief, Prime Minister Narendra Modi said, “I am deeply anguished by the helicopter crash in Tamil Nadu in which we have lost Gen Bipin Rawat, his wife and other personnel of the Armed Forces. They served India with utmost diligence. My thoughts are with the bereaved families.”Stating that the sudden death of Rawat brought irreparable loss to the country, defence minister Rajnath Singh said, “Deeply anguished by the sudden demise of Chief of Defence Staff Gen Bipin Rawat, his wife and 11 other Armed Forces personnel in an extremely unfortunate helicopter accident today in Tamil Nadu. His untimely death is an irreparable loss to our Armed Forces and the country,” Singh wrote on Twitter.Home minister Amit Shah said the CDS had served the nation with utmost devotion. “A very sad day for the nation as we have lost our CDS, General Bipin Rawat Ji in a very tragic accident. He was one of the bravest soldiers, who has served the motherland with utmost devotion. His exemplary contributions & commitment cannot be put into words. I am deeply pained,” Shah said in a tweet.Congress leader Rahul Gandhi said the nation stands united in this grief. “I extend my condolences to the family of Gen Bipin Rawat and his wife. This is an unprecedented tragedy and our thoughts are with their family in this difficult time. Heartfelt condolences also to all others who lost their lives. India stands united in this grief,” Rahul said in a tweet.Chief minister Pinarayi Vijayan of Kerala, Arvind Kejriwal of Delhi and Naveen Pattnaik of Odisha along with their other counterparts have also extended their condolences to the families of CDS Bipin Rawat and the others who have died. Pakistan’s two top military officials, joint chiefs of staff committee chairman General Nadeem Raza and chief of army staff General Qamar Javed Bajwa also expressed condolences on the tragic death of Gen Rawat and the loss of precious lives in a helicopter crash, Pakistan armed forces spokesperson Major General Babar Iftikhar said on Twitter.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/cds-rawat-s-death-anguished-pm-rajnath-call-mishap-irreparable-loss-101638969393413.html
08-12-2021||India||IAF chopper crash: Mamata ends meeting midway after learning about mishap||West Bengal chief minister and Trinamool Congress supremo Mamata Banerjee ended midway an administrative review meeting on Wednesday soon after she was informed about the IAF chopper crash in which chief of defence staff (CDS) Gen Bipin Rawat was on board. Rawat, his wife Madhulika and 11 others died in the mishap.The ill-fated Russia-made Mi-17V5 crashed near Coonoor in Tamil Nadu’s Niligiris district earlier in the day. Banerjee, while leaving the meeting venue, said, "We have received sad news. I am shocked. I have no words to express my grief. I am ending this meeting."Also read | IAF chopper crash updatesLater, the TMC supremo wrote on Twitter, "Extremely tragic news coming in from Coonoor. Today, the entire nation prays for the safety of those who were onboard including CDS Bipin Rawat and his family members. Also praying for the speedy recovery of everyone who was injured."Banerjee, who recently concluded a trip to Mumbai and hinted at forming alliances without the Congress at the national level, is on a four-day administrative tour of the state and will conduct several review meetings.Several other leaders and eminent citizens have expressed their shock and grief over the crash in Tamil Nadu.(With inputs from agencies)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/iaf-chopper-crash-mamata-ends-meeting-midway-after-learning-about-mishap-101638966596816.html
08-12-2021||India||General Rawat, his wife and 11 others killed in IAF chopper crash||NEW DELHI: India’s first chief of defence staff General Bipin Rawat, 63, his wife Madhulika Raje Singh Rawat and 11 others were killed on Wednesday noon in an Indian Air Force chopper crash near Coonoor in Tamil Nadu in one of the worst air accidents involving India’s top military brass, the IAF confirmed six hours after the crash.The Rawats are survived by their two daughters Kritika and Tarini.The only survivor of the crash, Group Captain Varun Singh, is under medical treatment at the Military Hospital in Wellington. Rawat survived a Cheetah chopper crash on February 3, 2015 in Nagaland’s Dimapur. He was a lieutenant general at that time.“With deep regret, it has now been ascertained that Gen Bipin Rawat, Mrs Madhulika Rawat and 11 other persons on board have died in the unfortunate accident,” the IAF said in a statement.The dead include Rawat’s defence assistant Brigadier LS Lidder and his staff officer Lieutenant Colonel Harjinder Singh, officials said. Fourteen people, including the chopper’s crew, were on board the Russian-origin Mi-17V5 helicopter.Also Read: CDS chopper crash turns spotlight on high-profile military air mishapsIn his message soon after the announcement, Prime Minister Narendra Modi said Gen Rawat and the other armed force personnel who died served India with utmost diligence.“I am deeply anguished by the helicopter crash in Tamil Nadu in which we have lost Gen Bipin Rawat, his wife and other personnel of the Armed Forces. They served India with utmost diligence. My thoughts are with the bereaved families,” PM Modi said in a tweet.Rawat was on a visit to the prestigious Defence Services Staff College (DSSC) at Wellington to address the faculty and student officers. Singh, the sole survivor and a decorated pilot, is a staff member at DSSC. I am shocked and anguished over the untimely demise of Gen. Bipin Rawat and his wife, Madhulika ji. The nation has lost one of its bravest sons. His four decades of selfless service to the motherland was marked by exceptional gallantry and heroism. My condolences to his family.The horrific Mi-17 crash near Coonoor came 58 years after top military officials were killed in a chopper crash near Poonch on November 22, 1963. Lieutenant General Daulat Singh, Lieutenant General Bikram Singh, Air Vice Marshal EW Pinto, Major Gen KND Nanavati, Brigadier SR Oberoi and Flight Lieutenant SS Sodhi died in the crashAn inquiry has been ordered to ascertain the cause of the accident, the air force said. The chopper was on its way from the Sulur airbase to DSSC at Wellington. The CDS and his wife had flown to Sulur from New Delhi in an Embraer jet of the IAF’s VVIP communication squadron.Rawat took over as India’s first CDS on December 31, 2019, after serving as army chief for a full three-year term. He was the longest-serving four-star general in the country’s military history. Rawat was spearheading the military’s theaterisation drive to enhance the effectiveness of the armed forces and reshape the conduct of future operations.From changing the face of United Nations peacekeeping in the Democratic Republic of Congo (DRC) to initiating the biggest exercise to restructure the army to closely supervising India’s two publicly acknowledged surgical strikes on foreign soil, Rawat, a rare general who did not play golf, brought enormous experience to the table as India’s first CDS.Those who have known the general for several decades say Rawat always thought outside the box, took hard decisions and was not afraid of challenging the status quo.Son of a three-star general, Rawat was commissioned into the army in December 1978 after graduating from the Dehradun-based Indian Military Academy where he was awarded the coveted Sword of Honour for exceptional performance. He was commissioned into the 5/11 Gorkha Rifles.The National Democratic Alliance government superseded two top generals — Lieutenant Generals Praveen Bakshi and PM Hariz — to appoint him army chief. Rawat’s experience in Jammu and Kashmir and the Northeast tipped the scales in his favour.
08-12-2021||India||Chief of defence staff Gen Bipin Rawat dies in IAF chopper crash in Tamil Nadu||Chief of defence staff (CDS) Gen Bipin Rawat on Wednesday died after an Indian Air Force (IAF) chopper he was on board crashed near Coonoor in Tamil Nadu’s Nilgiris district. His wife Madhulika Rawat and 11 others were also killed in the mishap, the Indian Air Force (IAF) said.In a series of tweets, the IAF said Group Captain Varun Singh SC, directing staff at DSSC, is currently undergoing treatment at Military Hospital, Wellington.The IAF further said besides the CDS, there were 13 passengers, including crew members, on the helicopter met with the accident near Coonoor. Gen Rawat was on a visit to the Defence Services Staff College, Wellington (Nilgiri Hills) to address the faculty and student officers of the Staff Course later in the day.With deep regret, it has now been ascertained that Gen Bipin Rawat, Mrs Madhulika Rawat and 11 other persons on board have died in the unfortunate accident.Expressing his grief, Prime Minister Narendra Modi said, “I am deeply anguished by the helicopter crash in Tamil Nadu in which we have lost Gen Bipin Rawat, his wife and other personnel of the Armed Forces. They served India with utmost diligence. My thoughts are with the bereaved families.”Defence minister Rajnath Singh said, “General Rawat had served the country with exceptional courage and diligence. As the first Chief of Defence Staff he had prepared plans for jointness of our Armed Forces.”Also read | IAF chopper crash live updatesThe mortal remains of Rawat, his wife and other armed forces personnel are likely to reach Delhi by Thursday evening.Reports said Singh will to brief Parliament on the crash on Thursday. He has already spoken to Prime Minister Narendra Modi before paying a visit to Rawat’s residence in Delhi.Also read | CDS chopper crash turns spotlight on high-profile military air mishapsAccording to passenger details, besides Rawat and his wife, Brigadier LS Lidder, Lieutenant Colonel Harjinder Singh, NK Gursewak Singh, NK Jitendra Kr, L/Naik Vivek Kumar, L/Naik B Sai Teja and Hav Satpal were travelling in the Mi-17VH choppper.Rawat had taken over as India’s first chief of defence staff (CDS) on December 31, 2019, after serving as the army chief for a full three-year term.He survived a Cheetah crash in Dimapur on February 3, 2015. He was then a lieutenant general.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/chief-of-defence-staff-gen-bipin-rawat-dies-in-iaf-chopper-crash-in-tamil-nadu-101638967066463.html
08-12-2021||India||‘Not shifting to BJP’: 10-time Goa MLA Pratapsingh Rane rebuts Devendra Fadnavis||PANAJI: Goa’s seniormost lawmaker, Pratapsingh Rane, on Wednesday rebutted senior Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) leader Devendra Fadnavis’ suggestion that he also may soon shift to the saffron party after spending 45 years in the Congress, saying it was a “figment of imagination” and he has no intention of leaving the Congress that he served for more than 45 years. Devendra Fadnavis floated the possibility of Pratapsingh Rane, one of the three remaining Congress legislators in the Goa assembly, crossing sides and “blessing” the BJP at a party event to induct Ravi Naik, a turncoat from the Congress. Fadnavis said when Pratapsingh Rane makes the switch, the Congress, which has been reduced from a Nano (a small car with four wheels) to an autorickshaw or a three wheeler, the Congress could become a cycle, or a two MLA party.Pratapsingh Rane delivered his rejoinder to Fadnavis in a 34-second video that was circulated by the Goa Congress.Also Read: IAF chopper with CDS Bipin Rawat on board crashes in Tamil Nadu“The news that is being spread that I am quitting my party is a figment of imagination. These people just want to spread canards. I am not leaving my party,” said Rane, Goa’s 10-time lawmaker who holds many records.Apart from being Goa’s longest-serving legislator Rane also holds a record for having served as chief minister of the state for a little less than 16 years across six terms between 1980 and 2007. He was the assembly speaker between 2007 and 2012. He has been continuously elected since 1972 when he was first elected to the then legislative assembly of the Union Territory of Goa, Daman and Diu. “I belong to the Congress party for over 45 years. and I do not think that I would ever at this juncture of leaving the Congress party. I belong to the Indian National Congress and that’s it,” the former Chief Minister also said.Rane’s son Vishwajit quit the Congress in 2017 after the party couldn’t form the government despite emerging as the largest party in the 40-member assembly with 17 legislators. He resigned as a Congress MLA, won the bye-election on a BJP ticket and was appointed a minister, first in the Manohar Parrikar cabinet and later, in Pramod Sawant’s team.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/not-shifting-to-bjp-10-time-goa-mla-pratapsingh-rane-rebuts-devendra-fadnavis-101638964401453.html
08-12-2021||India||Ahead of UP polls, Congress releases manifesto for women: All you need to know||Priyanka Gandhi Vadra, who is leading the Congress’ charge in poll-bound Uttar Pradesh, on Wednesday released a manifesto for the women of the state. In addition to this women-centric manifesto, the party announced in October that 40 per cent of its candidates for next year’s assembly elections in the northern state will be women.Also Read | 2022 UP polls: Priyanka to launch Congress manifesto for women todayThe Congress has divided the manifesto into six sections: self-respect, self-reliance, education, empowerment, security and health. Here’s what the sections say:Self-reliance: (1.) For new government posts, 40 per cent reservation for women according to the reservation provisions.(2.) Businesses employing up to 50 per cent women will get tax exemption and assistance.(3.) Anganwadi workers will get a minimum honorarium of ₹10,000 per month.(4.) Loan at 4 per cent interest rate for aid groups, women to be prioritised for MNREGA.Education: (1.) Every girl studying in 10+2 to receive a smartphone(2.) A scooty for every girl enrolled in undergraduate programmes.(3.) Across the state, 75 skill schools, named after female warriors, to be launched.Empowerment: (1.) Free travel for women in government-run buses.(2.) Three gas cylinders free of cost every year.(3.) ‘Mahila Chaupal’ in all village panchayats.Security: (1.) Female constables in all police stations, 25 per cent reservation for women in UP Police.(2.) If no action is taken within 10 days of complaint in crimes such as rape, law will be made for the suspension of the officer.Health: (1.) Free treatment of up to ₹10 lakh in government hospitals.(2.) New health centres to be opened in rural and urban areas.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/ahead-of-up-polls-congress-releases-manifesto-for-women-all-you-need-to-know-101638961498516.html
08-12-2021||India||‘Revoke suspension, opposition ready to let house function’: Mallikarjun Kharge on suspension of 12 MPs||Reiterating his demand for revoking the suspension of 12 opposition lawmakers from the Rajya Sabha, the leader of opposition in the Upper House, Mallikarjun Kharge, on Wednesday said that the opposition was ready to let the House function.Kharge also called the move to suspend the MPs as "against the Constitution" and said that the opposition was being forced to disrupt the House so that no issues were discussed.“Today we raised the issue once again that this is not right and the suspension should be revoked. I appeal once again that we are ready to let the House function. All opposition has boycotted the House today and we will sit with suspended MPs for the entire day,” news agency ANI quoted Kharge as saying. He also said that the opposition was yet to decide about the proceedings of the House on Thursday.Also read | Suspension of 12 Rajya Sabha MPs ‘outrageous’ and ‘unprecedented’: Sonia GandhiThe suspension was against the Constitution, Kharge said, and that the opposition did not want the house to be disrupted. “Suspension is against Article 85 of the Constitution,” he said.“We do not want the House to function like this, but they are forcing us so that the House does not function and no issues are raised, be it of farmers, Pegasus, inflation, fuel prices, Nagaland,” he further said.“We have been continuously putting forth our views in the House regarding the revocation of suspension of our MPs and we have requested the Chairman several times that we are not at fault, still we have been punished. I have also said that the suspension is against rules,” he added.Click here for live updates on Parliament Winter SessionEarlier on Tuesday, Kharge made similar comments when he said that the suspension of the MPs “for an act of the previous session, without following the laid down procedure, was completely undemocratic, unprecedented and done in a vindictive manner in gross violations of Rules of Procedure and Constitutional provisions,” in a statement.The opposition, except the Telugu Desam Party (TDP) and the YSR Congress Party (YSRCP), boycotted the Rajya Sabha over the suspension, according to a report by ANI. The Congress, Dravida Munnetra Kazhagam (DMK), Trinamool Congress, Left parties, Telangana Rashtra Samithi (TRS) and Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) did not join the Question Hour in the Upper House.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/revoke-suspension-opposition-ready-to-let-house-function-mallikarjun-kharge-on-suspension-of-12-mps-101638963264178.html
08-12-2021||India||News updates from HT: Leaders hope for safety of General Bipin Rawat, others after chopper crash and all the latest news||Here are today-’s top news, analysis and opinion. Know all about the latest news and other news updates from Hindustan Times.IAF chopper crash: Politicians pray for well-being of General Bipin Rawat, othersChief of defence staff General Bipin Rawat, his wife Madhulika Rawat were among 14 passengers who were on board an Indian Air Force (IAF) helicopter, which crashed near Tamil Nadu's Coonoor on Wednesday. Read more 'Dhoni helped my career personally': Star CSK allrounder gives '100 percent' confirmation of entering IPL 2022 auctionAhead of the mega-auction, one of CSK's major attractions over the years, veteran all-rounder Dwayne Bravo, has all but confirmed his participation in the player auction next month. Read moreMika Singh says he got Vicky Kaushal and Katrina Kaif's wedding invite but won't attend. Here's whyMika Singh has said that he has received an invite to Vicky Kaushal and Katrina Kaif's wedding but is giving the ceremony a miss. The actors are getting married in Rajasthan this week. Read moreAre you talking to yourself harshly? Here's what it could do to youWe are our worst critics, it is rightly said. We constantly ponder about our actions - whether we can do something better, improve ourselves or respond better to others while interacting with them. Read moreIn fight vs Ola Electric, Simple plans world's largest e-two-wheeler factorySimple Energy on Wednesday announced it has signed a Memorandum of Understanding (MoU) with the Tamil Nadu state government for an investment of up to ₹2500 crores for a plant that it claims would be the world's largest for electric two-wheelers. Read more||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/news-updates-from-ht-leaders-hope-for-safety-of-general-bipin-rawat-others-after-chopper-crash-and-all-the-latest-news-101638961727300.html
08-12-2021||India||Bihar preps for polls to 24 vacant MLC posts||With the panchayat polls drawing to a close, preparations have begun in Bihar to conduct elections to choose MLCs from local bodies to fill the 24 vacant seats in the State Legislative Council, officials said. According to people aware of the development, the state election body will be sending a recommendation to conduct the polls to the Election Commission of India (ECI) after December 15, by which time details of the newly elected panchayat representatives from all districts will be collated.As per the norms, the elected panchayat representatives like ward members of gram panchayats, mukhiyas, Panchayat Samiti members, and district board members as well as ward members of the urban local bodies are members of the Electoral College that elects the MLCs from local authorities’ constituencies across the state. “We will be seeking details of all newly elected panchayat representatives from the DMs soon; once the last phase of panchayat polls scheduled to be held on December 11, is over. A formal letter to the ECI will be sent,” said a senior official in the state election department. The election for the 24 seats could be held in February next year, people aware of the development said.At present, the strength in the state legislative council is 51 as against the total strength of 75 in the Upper House. The 24 MLC seats, which fell vacant in June this year, have not been filled due to the delay in conducting the panchayat polls.The MLC polls are poised to be a keen contest between the ruling NDA and opposition RJD with both sides already gearing up to win more seats by rallying support from the panchayat members. There are also speculations that the Lok Janshakti Party (Ram Vilas faction) led by Jamui MP Chirag Paswan could enter into an understanding with the RJD to contest the MLC polls though there has been no formal announcement in this matter.
08-12-2021||India||60th Liberation Day: PM Modi to visit Goa on December 19||Prime Minister Narendra Modi will visit Goa on December 19 to take part in the 60th anniversary celebrations of the western state’s liberation from Portuguese rule, chief minister Pramod Sawant said on Wednesday. Modi will attend a series of programmes in Goa during his day-long visit besides also addressing a public function, the CM said. Goa commemorates the day the Indian Army marched into the state on December 19, 1961, leading to a bloodless operation that ended with the surrender by Goa’s Portuguese administration at that time. CM Sawant said a detailed list of events to be attended by PM Modi will be made known after it is confirmed by the Prime Minister’s Office in New Delhi.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/60th-liberation-day-pm-modi-to-visit-goa-on-december-19-101638958700485.html
08-12-2021||India||Kanhaiya Kumar to address Congress workers in Pune tomorrow||Congress leader Kanhaiya Kumar will address members of the party’s Pune unit at Congress Bhavan on Thursday, as part of the valedictory function of the 17th Seva-Kartavya-Tyag week. State Congress chief Nana Patole, revenue minister Balasaheb Thorat and another Maharashtra minister Amit Deshmukh will also be present.“The city unit of Congress is preparing for the forthcoming elections to the Pune Municipal Corporation. A lot of functions are being organized to encourage party workers ahead of the civic polls. There will be a rally at Congress Bhavan on December 9, and firebrand leader Kanhaiya Kumar will address workers,” said senior Congress leader Mohan Joshi.Joshi added that the Congress has not taken any decision on inking any pre-poll alliance for the civic elections. “The city unit will hold discussions with local leaders and provide inputs to state leaders to take a decision on pre-poll alliances. We will accept and abide by the decision taken by the local leaders,” he said.Kanhaiya Kumar, according to party leaders, will speak on the theme ‘Save Democracy, Save Country’. The Congress, which ruled PMC till 2007, currently has only nine members in the civic body and the party is trying hard to regain lost ground.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/kanhaiya-kumar-to-address-congress-workers-in-pune-tomorrow-101638958580319.html
08-12-2021||India||Tribals protest over proposed police camp in Chhattisgarh’s Kanker||Hundreds of tribals began a protest in Kanker district of Chhattisgarh’s Bastar region on Wednesday, demanding retraction of a proposed police camp in the state’s Chhotebethiya area near the Kotri river. “We are protesting because the government is planning to set up a security camp without even taking the consent of the Gram Sabha. This is against the law and secondly, we don’t want any such camp in our area,” said Gajju Ram, president of Chhotebethiya block of Sarv Aadivasi Samaj.The protest is taking place in the jungles of Bethiya village on the banks of the Kotri river.“We don’t want any camp or a tourism centre in this area. We request the government to retract these proposals otherwise the protest will continue until our demands are fulfilled” said Ram, adding that around 500 villagers have joined the protest till now.Senior police officers however said there was no official confirmation that a security camp may be setup in the area.“They are anticipating that a camp will be established to build the bridge on Kotri river which passes through the area, but till now, no official communication in this regard has been done,” said Shalabh Sinha, Kanker’s police chief.Inspector general of police, Bastar range , Sunderaj P said that villagers were misguided by the Maoists and hence they were protesting.Also Read: Mayor objects to BJP MLA’s comment, women’s commission takes suo moto cognisance“In the recent years we have made decisive inroads into erstwhile Maoist stronghold areas in Bastar Region. This could be achieved mainly because of the security camps, which have been established to facilitate development works and connectivity projects. Last year Kamdeta and Katgaon camps were established along Koylibeda-Pratapur road in Kanker. Both these camps were instrumental in fulfilling dreams of hundreds of villages to construct bridges across Medki and Waler river,” he saidHe said all the positive developments were irritating the Maoist formations.“Drastically their area of influence is getting diminished. This situation is making them misguide the villagers to protest against development works. But we are hopeful of convincing the villagers,” said the IG.It is worth mentioning that in May 2021, three people were killed when security personnel opened fire on thousands of protestors including suspected Maoists on the fifth day of protests against the setting up of a CRPF camp in Bastar’s Silger village- a Maoist stronghold along the border of Sukma-Bijapur districts in Chhattisgarh.Villagers said they feared the presence of CRPF personnel in the camp would lead to harassment of innocent tribals.
08-12-2021||India||Chopper crash: Defence minister Rajnath to brief Parl, Stalin to leave for Coimbatore soon||Defence minister Rajnath Singh will issue a statement in Parliament on Thursday on the IAF helicopter crash near Coonoor in Tamil Nadu with chief of defence staff Gen Bipin Rawat on board.According to reports, Singh is monitoring the situation and has briefed Prime Minister Narendra Modi about the crash. He is unlikely to visit the crash site at the moment. A meeting of senior officials of the defence ministry is underway.Tamil Nadu chief minister MK Stalin will leave for Coimbatore at 5pm and head to the crash site in Nilgiris district. IAF chief Vivek Ram Chaudhuri is also flying to the crash site.Further reports suggested 14 passengers, including the crew, were on board the ill-fated chopper of whom four persons were killed, while others were rescued in severely injured conditions.Also read | Politicians pray for well-being of General Bipin Rawat, othersThe rescued have been taken to government and military hospitals nearby. The IAF said a Court of Inquiry has been ordered into the accident, involving a Mi-17VH chopper that took off from the Sulur IAF Station in nearby Coimbatore.The Chief of Defence Staff was on his way to the Defence Staff College in Wellington.The helicopter crashed in the Katteri-Nanchappanchathram area near Coonoor in the hilly Nilgiris district.(With inputs from bureau and agencies)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/chopper-crash-rajnath-to-brief-parliament-defence-ministry-meet-underway-101638956952807.html
08-12-2021||India||IAF chopper crash: Politicians pray for well-being of CDS Bipin Rawat, others||Chief of defence staff General Bipin Rawat, his wife Madhulika Rawat were among 14 passengers who were on board an Indian Air Force (IAF) helicopter, which crashed near Tamil Nadu's Coonoor on Wednesday.Also Read | IAF chopper with CDS Bipin Rawat on board crashes in Tamil NaduAn official confirmation is awaited on the condition of passengers, including General Rawat. Here's how politicians are reacting to the news of chopper crash: Congress leader Rahul Gandhi: “Hoping for the safety of CDS General Bipin Rawat, his wife and others onboard the chopper. Prayers for speedy recovery.” Hoping for the safety of CDS General Bipin Rawat, his wife and others onboard the chopper. Prayers for speedy recovery.Civil aviation minister Jyotiraditya Scindia: “Distressed to hear the news of an Army helicopter crash carrying CDS General Shri Bipin Rawat Ji and other senior Army officials. Praying for their safety & well-being.” Distressed to hear the news of an Army helicopter crash carrying CDS General Shri Bipin Rawat Ji and other senior Army officials. Praying for their safety & well-being.Road transport minister Nitin Gadkari: "Shocked to hear about the tragic crash of helicopter with CoDS Shri Bipin Rawat ji on board. I pray for everyone's safety, wellbeing."
08-12-2021||India||IAF chopper crash updates: Mortal remains of CDS Rawat to reach Delhi tomorrow||Chief of Defence Staff General Bipin Rawat, his wife Madhulika and 11 others on board an Indian Air Force (IAF) chopper died in a crash near Coonoor in Tamil Nadu on Wednesday.Gen Rawatwas on a visit to the Defence Services Staff College, Wellington (Nilgiri Hills) to address the faculty and student officers of the Staff Course today, the IAF said. Group Captain Varun Singh is the sole survivor of the tragedy. He is undergoing treatment with injuries at a military hospital in Wellington, the IAF added in a series of tweets.Live updates:- Mortal remains of Rawat and his wife along with other personnel of the armed forces personnel killed in the crash is expected to arrive in Delhi by Thursday evening.- A meeting of the Cabinet Committee on Security was held in the wake of the mishap. Prime Minister Narendra Modi chaired the meeting that was also attended by defence minister Rajnath Singh, national security advisor Ajit Doval, Home Minister Amit Shah, Nirmala Sitharaman and others.  - At the meeting, all members observed two minutes of silence and paid tributes to all those who lost their lives in the chopper crash.- Expressing his grief, Prime Minister Narendra Modi said, “I am deeply anguished by the helicopter crash in Tamil Nadu in which we have lost Gen Bipin Rawat, his wife and other personnel of the Armed Forces. They served India with utmost diligence. My thoughts are with the bereaved families.” - Defence minister Rajnath Singh said, "“Deeply anguished by the sudden demise of Chief of Defence Staff Gen Bipin Rawat, his wife and 11 other Armed Forces personnel in an extremely unfortunate helicopter accident today in Tamil Nadu. His untimely death is an irreparable loss to our Armed Forces and the country,”- A meeting of the Cabinet Committee on Security will be held at 6.30pm today.- Defence minister Rajnath Singh is likely to issue Parliament on the chopper crash on Thursday.- Army chief General MM Naravane has briefed Singh about the mishap.- Singh is monitoring the situation and is said to have briefed PM Modi about the crash. - The defence minister paid a visit to Rawat's residence in Delhi.- An inquiry has been ordered to ascertain the cause of the accident, the Indian Air Force (IAF) said on its official Twitter handle.- Wing commander Prithvi Singh Chauhan was the pilot of the ill-fated Mi-17V5. He is the commanding officer of the 109 Helicopter Unit.Also read | Politicians pray for well-being of General Bipin Rawat, others- TN chief minister MK Stalin to leave for crash site. - According to PTI inputs, four bodies have been found, while three injured persons were rescued from the crash site.- The bodies found at the site of the crash (between Coimbatore and Sulur) have been taken to the government hospital in Coonoor.- Some of the rescued are also being taken to the military hospital in Wellington, Tamil Nadu, an ANI input said quoting sources.- According to passenger details, besides Rawat and his wife, Brig LS Lidder, Lt Col Harjinder Singh, NK Gursewak Singh, NK Jitendra Kr, L/Naik Vivek Kumar, L/Naik B Sai Teja and Hav Satpal- Latest reports suggested 14 passengers were on board from Sulur to Wellington. Rescue operation is still on with local police and the Army. - Eight ambulances are on the spot. - While there is no official word on injuries sustained by the occupants of the IAF’s new Mi-17 V5 helicopter, images available from the site revealed some of the passengers have suffered grievous injuries.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/iaf-chopper-crashes-with-cds-bipin-rawat-on-board-here-s-what-we-know-so-far-101638954095761.html
08-12-2021||India||‘Those who sell public property…': Akhilesh rebuts PM Modi's ‘laal topi’ jibe||Samajwadi Party (SP) chief Akhilesh Yadav said on Wednesday that Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s ‘laal topi’ (red cap) attack on the SP shows that ‘those who sell public property are perturbed with the red colour.’Also Read | Lucknow: ‘Red caps’ will oust BJP from power in UP: Akhilesh retorts to Modi’s jibe“This is a government that sells. So far it was a government of ‘jumlas,’ now it has become a ‘bechu’ government too. They are making such comments because they don’t want to discuss the real issues,” the former Uttar Pradesh chief minister said, according to news agency ANI.Yadav further said that in poll-bound Uttar Pradesh, red is the colour of change. “UP wants to see change. Promises made by the BJP are mere ‘jumla,’ they have been lying continuously. They have misled people. Did they fulfil their promises? Did the farmers’ income double? Did the youth get jobs?” he questioned. Those who sell public property are perturbed with the colour red. This is a govt that sells. So far it was a govt of 'jumlas', it has now become a 'bechu' govt too. They are making such comments because they don't want to discuss real issues: SP chief Akhilesh Yadav, in Delhi pic.twitter.com/zTiOKaaUFNMeanwhile, Sanjay Singh of the Aam Aadmi Party (AAP), whose recent meeting with Yadav led to speculations that the AAP could join the SP-led alliance for next year’s assembly elections in the northern state, too, attacked the Prime Minister. “Please pay attention to the two photographs below,” Singh tweeted in Hindi.The AAP Rajya Sabha MP shared with his tweet the video of PM Modi’s ‘laal topi’ attack on the Samajwadi Party. On the bottom left of the video was a photo of the Prime Minister in a red cap, while on the bottom right was a photo of UP chief minister Yogi Adityanath, too, in a headgear of the same colour. कृपया नीचे की दो तस्वीरों पर ध्यान दें। pic.twitter.com/8XjRQ7aMayOn Tuesday, addressing a public rally in Gorakhpur, the UP CM’s home turf, PM Modi said, “The ‘laal topis’ want to form government so that they can fill their own coffers, carry out illegal encroachments, give a free run to criminals, show leniency for terrorists and release them for jail. Therefore, people should remember that ‘laal topis’ are red alert for Uttar Pradesh.” Responding to the jibe, Akhilesh, who addressed a joint rally in Meerut with Rashtriya Janata Dal’s (RJD) Jayant Chaudhary, said, “Red caps are red alerts for the BJP as well, as we will oust them from power in the upcoming assembly polls.”Red caps are a trademark headgear for Samajwadi Party workers. Yadav himself is seen wearing these caps.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/those-who-sell-public-property-akhilesh-rebuts-pm-modi-s-laal-topi-jibe-101638953826213.html
08-12-2021||India||‘Protests will continue till…’ What farmer leader Charuni said after key meeting||Bharatiya Kisan Union (BKU) leader Gurnam Singh Charuni on Wednesday said the farmers would continue to protest till the demands are met. He also sought a timeline for withdrawal of cases.“Farmers' protests will continue until after government accepts all of our demands... It would be problematic for us if we withdraw our protest, but they don't take back the cases. The government should announce a timeline for the withdrawal of cases,” Charuni was quoted as saying by news agency ANI.Charuni said the Centre should follow the Punjab model while giving compensation to the kin of over 700 deceased farmers."For compensation to over 700 deceased farmers' kin, we want the Centre to follow Punjab model; ₹5 lakh compensation and a job as announced by Punjab government should be implemented by Government of India as well," Charuni said.Samyukt Kisan Morcha (SKM), an umbrella of farmer unions, had formed a five-member committee and is awaiting the government's response on the matter.A member of SKM's panel Ashok Dhawale said, "We appreciate that the government is ready for talks and is giving something in writing. But the proposal had a few flaws, so last night, we sent it back with some amendments and are awaiting their response.""The formation of a Minimum Support Price (MSP)-focused committee is needed, including members from the farmers' union. The government also said that the cases registered against us will be taken back after we finish the movement, which is wrong. We don't like sitting here in the cold," he said.Further pointing out the "flaws" in the proposal, Dhawale said, "The compensation has been approved theoretically. We need something concrete like the Punjab model. They also promised to take back the electricity bill, but now they want to discuss it with the stakeholders and then put it up in Parliament. It is contradictory."Samyukt Kisan Morcha's five-member committee held an urgent meeting in the national capital on Wednesday. They are likely to take a decision on the future course of action on farmers' protest.On Tuesday, Samyukta Kisan Morcha held a meeting to discuss the Centre's response and said that some pending issues still remain.The farmers' body informed that the government, in its proposal, has asked them to first end the protest and only then cases against them will be taken back.Addressing the press conference after the meeting on Tuesday, SKM's Balbir Singh Rajewal said that they will not accept the government's condition that cases against farmers will be withdrawn after agitation is called off."Government's proposal says after we end the movement, then only will they withdraw cases. We are apprehensive about it. Government should immediately begin with the (cases' withdrawal) procedure. Final decision to be taken at tomorrow's meeting," said Balbir Singh Rajewal.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/protests-will-continue-till-what-farmer-leader-charuni-said-after-key-meeting-101638948660571.html
08-12-2021||India||Parents of minors file FIR against 15 teachers alleging gang rape||Family members of three minor school girls have accused 15 teachers, which constitutes the entire teaching staff of a government school in Rajasthan’s Alwar district of gang rape in three separate FIRs filed on Tuesday night, said police. A case under POCSO act has been lodged and investigation has been started, it added. The complaints allege that the teachers had been harassing their daughters for the last one year. The accused staff includes both male and female teachers.Alwar’s superintendent of police, Ram Moorty Joshy said the police was also investigating the possibility of the latest complaints being filed with the purpose of harassing witnesses of another molestation case registered in 2020 that involved another teacher of the same school who was arrested and later released on bail. The SP said that it was pertinent to probe witness harassment angle too since the 15 teachers accused in the latest FIRs were witnesses in the previous molestation case.Also Read: NIA court allows Sudha Bharadwaj’s bail against cash bond “We suspect the involvement of teachers arrested in this matter and a possible angle of witness harassment, which is also being probed,” Joshy said, and added that the accused teacher had accompanied the family members who filed the gan grape cases, to the police station. 
08-12-2021||India||IAF chopper with CDS Bipin Rawat on board crashes in Tamil Nadu||An Indian Air Force (IAF) helicopter with chief of defence staff (CDS) General Bipin Rawat on board crashed near Conoor in Tamil Nadu on Wednesday, the IAF has confirmed. The CDS was accompanied by his wife Madhulika Rawat, his staff and other officials, people familiar with the development said.There were 14 persons on board the IAF Mi-17V5 helicopter, including the crew. Watch: Chopper crash: With CDS General Rawat onboard, IAF's Mi-17V5 crashes, at least 4 deadThe persons on board the chopper included Rawat’s defence assistant Brigadier LS Lidder and his staff officer Lieutenant Colonel Harjinder Singh, the officials said.An inquiry has been ordered to ascertain the cause of the accident, the IAF said on Twitter. There was no official word on injuries sustained by the occupants of the helicopter. The chopper was on its way from the Sulur air base to the Defence Services Staff College in Wellington.Rawat took charge as India’s first CDS on December 31, 2019 after serving as the army chief for a full three-year term.Rawat survived a Cheetah crash in Dimapur, Nagaland on February 3, 2015. He was a lieutenant general at that time.
08-12-2021||India||Keeping up with UP | Why a multi-cornered contest suits the BJP||Watching a public rally of the national president of the Samajwadi Party (SP) Akhilesh Yadav on television in mid-November, an officer in the Chief Minister’s Office quipped, “We don’t understand why the media is giving so much coverage to him while ignoring the national president of the Bahujan Samaj Party (BSP) Mayawati. It will be she who will actually be fighting the ruling Bhartiya Janata Party (BJP).”
08-12-2021||India||Army chopper carrying CDS Bipin Rawat crashes in Ooty, probe ordered||An Army helicopter carrying senior defence officials, including chief of defence staff Bipin Rawat, crashed at Coonoor in Nilgiris district in Tamil Nadu on Wednesday killing four on the spot. According to reports, around14 people were on board and the chopper was flying from Sulur Airbase to Wellington when it crashed. Three officials have been rescued so far while a search is on for others, an official said. The injured have been taken to Wellington cantonment in Nilgiris. News agency ANI reported that along with Bipin Rawat, his staff and some family members were in the Mi-series chopper. As soon as the chopper crashed, a search and rescue operation was launched from nearby bases, sources confirmed. Local people too swung into rescue work and the early photos of the crashed chopper have been sources for local rescuers. Watch video of rescue work at the chopper crash site#WATCH | Latest visuals from the spot (between Coimbatore and Sulur) where a military chopper crashed in Tamil Nadu. CDS Bipin Rawat, his staff and some family members were in the chopper. pic.twitter.com/6oxG7xD8iW#WATCH | Latest visuals from the spot (between Coimbatore and Sulur) where a military chopper crashed in Tamil Nadu. CDS Gen Bipin Rawat, his staff and some family members were in the chopper.(Video Source: Locals involved in search and rescue operation) pic.twitter.com/YkBVlzsk1J The Indian Air Force issued a statement confirming the crash and the presence of CDS Rawat on board. “An IAF Mi-17V5 helicopter, with CDS Gen Bipin Rawat on board, met with an accident today near Coonoor, Tamil Nadu. An Inquiry has been ordered to ascertain the cause of the accident,” the IAF said.  An IAF Mi-17V5 helicopter, with CDS Gen Bipin Rawat on board, met with an accident today near Coonoor, Tamil Nadu.An Inquiry has been ordered to ascertain the cause of the accident.According to passenger details, Bipin Rawat, Madhulika Rawat, Brig LS Lidder, Lt Col Harjinder Singh, NK Gurusewak Singh, NK Jitendra Kumar, L/NK Vivek Kumar, L/NK B sai Teja, Hav Satpal were flying from Delhi to Sulur on the chopper. The passenger list from Sulur to Wellington is not out yet.As the rescue work is going on, officials said the bodies are yet to be identified. Two officials with 80% burns were sent to a local hospital, ANI reported.Defence minister Rajnath Singh will brief Parliament on the army chopper crash, a report said.Reactions started pouring with ministers, politicians praying for the safety of the passengers on board.Reactions
08-12-2021||India||India successfully test-fires air version of BrahMos supersonic cruise missile||India successfully test-fired the air version of the BrahMos supersonic cruise missile, the ministry of defence said on Wednesday, describing the launch as a ‘major milestone’ in BrahMos development.In a statement, the ministry noted that the missile was successfully test-fired from Indian Air Force’s (IAF) Sukhoi 30 MKI supersonic fighter aircraft from the Integrated Test Range (ITR), based in Chandipur, off the coast of Odisha, today. Stating that the launch was a ‘copy book flight,’ the release further said that the missile followed the pre-planned trajectory, meeting all of its mission objectives.“During the test, the structural integrity and functional performance have been proven. It clears the system for the serial production of air version BrahMos missiles within the country,” the defence ministry said, adding that the previous flight test of the air version took place last July.Defence minister Rajnath Singh has praised the Defence Research and Development Organisation (DRDO), BrahMos Aerospace, IAF and the industry on successful test-firing, the release also said.BrahMos is a joint India-Russia venture, between the DRDO and Russia’s NPO Mashinostroyeniya, which, together, formed the Brahmos Aerospace. The missile derives its name from two rivers: the Brahmaputra in India and the Moskva of Russia. A day ago, on Tuesday, India successfully test-fired the Vertically Launched Short Range Surface to Air Missile (VL-SRSAM) from the Chandipur-based ITR. The DRDO-designed system has been developed for the Indian Navy, and can engage targets at a distance of around 15km.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/india-successfully-test-fires-air-version-of-brahmos-supersonic-cruise-missile-101638948833256.html
08-12-2021||India||India replaces Brazil as top food supplier to Arab League countries||India has become the top food exporter to the 22-nation League of Arab States for the first time in 15 years, replacing Brazil. A Reuters report from Sao Paulo on Tuesday said India accounted for 8.25% of the total agribusiness products imported by the 22 Arab League members last year, higher than Brazil’s 8.15%, ending a 15-year advantage for Brazil, according to data provided by the Arab-Brazil Chamber of Commerce to Reuters on Tuesday. “The Arab world is among Brazil’s most important trade partners, but its distance from those markets took its toll as the [Covid-19] pandemic rattled global logistics,” the report said. According to the chamber, India’s edge lay in quickly shipping food products to the Arab states beating pandemic-related disruptions to global supply chains. India is now capable of shipping fruits, vegetables, sugar, grains and meat to the Arab nations in about a week’s time whereas Brazil’s shipments to Saudi Arabia now takes up to 60 days, according to the Arab-Brazil Chamber of Commerce. According to official data from the ministry of commerce, agriculture exports from India registered a sharp increase of nearly 25% in 2020-21 over the previous year. The increase came even as India’s total exports had dropped by over 7%. Agricultural exports expanded to $32.5 billion in 2020-21, nearly close to the record level of $32.7 billion seen in 2012-13. The share of agriculture in the total exports exceeded 11%, the highest on record.
08-12-2021||India||Bhima-Koregaon activist Sudha Bharadwaj to be released from jail on ₹50k bail bond||Bhima-Koregaon activist Sudha Bharadwaj, who was granted relief by the Supreme Court a day ago, could be released from prison on furnishing a cash bond of ₹50,000 and any one of the other sureties, a special National Investigation Agency (NIA) in Mumbai ruled on Wednesday. The court allowed Bharadwaj to submit the cash surety, which would enable her to walk out of the jail either on Wednesday itself or Thursday.Bharadwaj, who is currently lodged at Byculla jail in the city, will also be required to reside in the jurisdiction of the court after her release and cannot leave Mumbai without its permission, the order stated. While granting the lawyer-activist default bail last week, the Bombay high court had also directed her to be produced before the special NIA court in the city on December 8 to decide upon the conditions of her bail and the date of release.The case against Bharadwaj relates to alleged inflammatory speeches delivered at the Elgar Parishad conclave, held at Shaniwarwada in Pune on December 31, 2017, which the police claimed triggered violence the next day near the Bhima-Koregaon war memorial located on the city's outskirts. The Pune police had claimed the conclave was backed by Maoists. The probe in the case was later transferred to the NIA.Sudha Bharadwaj was arrested in August 2018 under the provisions of the stringent Unlawful Activities Prevention Act (UAPA) in connection with the Elgar Parishad-Maoist links case.After the Bombay high court granted her default bail on December 1, the NIA had moved the Supreme Court against her bail order. However, the top court junked the agency's plea yesterday and upheld the Bombay high court's bail order. A bench of justices UU Lalit, S Ravindra Bhat, and Bela M Trivedi also asked the NIA why it made this application for an extension before a magisterial court when there is a separate special court at Pune, manned by special judges who ought to be hearing the NIA case.Although Bharadwaj is the first among 16 activists and academicians arrested in the case to have been granted default bail, the pleas of others, including poet-activist Varavara Rao, Vernon Gonsalves, and Arun Ferreira, were rejected.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/bhimakoregaon-activist-sudha-bharadwaj-to-be-released-from-jail-on-rs-50k-bail-bond-101638945499630.html
08-12-2021||India||Expelled AIADMK leader Sasikala meets Rajinikanth||Expelled All India Anna Dravida Munnetra Kazhagam (AIADMK) leader VK Sasikala who still claims to be its general secretary met Tamil superstar Rajinikanth at his residence, raising eyebrows. However, Sasikala’s office described the meeting as a “courtesy call”. “She met Rajinikanth to congratulate him on winning the Dadasaheb Palke award and to enquire about his health,” the statement said. The meeting took place on Monday evening and pictures released show Rajinikanth’s wife Latha also in conversation with Sasikala. Both Sasikala and Rajinikanth are non-starters in Tamil Nadu’s political arena for widely different reasons. They have also been erstwhile neighbours in Chennai’s plush Poes Garden where Rajinikanth resides and late former chief minister J Jayalalithaa lived with Sasikala for at least three decades. The 70-year-old actor with a cult following across the globe announced his entry into politics in December 2017 and launched the Rajini Makkal Mandram. But after several fits and starts, he backtracked in December 2020 citing health reasons and the Covid-19 pandemic. Rajinikanth’s role was expected to shake up the state’s politics and he was being courted by the BJP which is trying to gain a foothold in Tamil Nadu where the electorate has only favoured either the DMK or the AIADMK since 1967 when Congress lost power.Also Read: 3rd year in a row, Sitharaman features on Forbes’ 100 most powerful women listMeanwhile Sasikala is going all out to make a political comeback which has been thwarted repeatedly by the AIADMK’s current dual leadership of Edappadi Palaniswami and O Panneerselvam --both her loyalists turned foes. Following Jayalalithaa’s death in office in December 2016, the AIADMK unanimously declared Sasikala as the interim general secretary and she was set to take over as chief minister when the Supreme Court convicted her to a four-year jail term in Bengaluru in February 2017 in the disproportionate assets case.Later that year, she was expelled from the party and has been refused re-entry with her family members. The party changed vastly while she was imprisoned and since her release in February this year, Sasikala has tried to make a comeback but has mostly received a lukewarm response.To prevent her from finding a way into the AIADMK, the party last week amended its bylaws to re-elect Panneerselvam and Palaniswami as coordinator and joint coordinator--the top posts in the party.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/expelled-aiadmk-leader-sasikala-meets-rajinikanth-101638948139583.html
08-12-2021||India||Forbes feature Sitharaman in 100 most powerful women list; Nykaa's Falguni Nayar makes debut||For the third time in a row, Union finance minister Nirmala Sitharaman made it Forbes' 100 most powerful women in the world. This year, she is ranked at number 37, up from last year when she was placed at 41. She is also two spots ahead of her American counterpart Janet Yellen.In 2020, Sitharaman was ranked at number 41 and in 2019, she held 34th spot. Sitharaman is the first full-time female finance minister of India.Every year, the American business magazine releases a list of 100 powerful women of the world. This year, the 18th annual list of power women included 40 CEOs, the most since 2015, who, according to the magazine, "oversee a record $3.3 trillion in revenue." The list also included 19 world leaders, an immunologist.In another remarkable highlight of the list,it also features a new number one for the first time in more than a decade, as philanthropist Mackenzie Scott replaced outgoing German Chancellor Angela Merkel.On number two is US vice president Kamala Harris, who moved up one spot than last year. The Indian-origin woman made history this year after she became the first female vice president and the highest-ranking female official in US history, as well as the first African American and first Asian-American vice president.Christine Lagarde, the president of the European Central Bank, is ranked at number three.Besides Sitharaman, Indians to feature on the list include HCL Corporation CEO Roshni Nadar Malhotra at 52); Biocon Executive Chairperson Kiran Mazundar-Shaw at 72. Nykaa founder Falguni Nayar also made her debut as she was featured on number 88.Other notable faces on the list are Facebook’s whistleblower Frances Haugen (100), Bangladeshi Prime Minister Sheikh Hasina Wajed (43).Here are the top tens of 'The World’s 100 Most Powerful Women'#1 Philanthropist MacKenzie Scott#2 US vice-president Kamala Harris#3 European Central Bank president Christine Lagarde#4 CEO of General Motors Mary Barra#5 Philanthropist Melinda French Gates#6 Fidelity Investments CEO Abigail Johnson#7 Santander Executive Chairman Ana Patricia Botín#8 President of European Commission Ursula von der Leyen#9 Taiwan President Tsai Ing-wen#10 Accenture CEO Julie Sweet||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/forbes-feature-sitharaman-in-100-most-powerful-women-list-nykaa-s-falguni-nayar-makes-debut-101638947265646.html
08-12-2021||India||News updates from HT: TMC MPs to meet Amit Shah today to seek govt's stance on AFSPA and all the latest news||Here are today’s top news, analysis, and opinion at 1pm. Know all about the latest news and other news updates from Hindustan Times.Nagaland civilian killings: TMC MPs to meet Amit Shah today, seek Centre's stance on repeal of AFSPAThe delegation, which will comprise eight MPs the Mamata Banerjee-headed party, will also submit to Shah memorandum seeking financial compensation for the families of the civilians. Read moreCovishield production to be halved; Adar Poonawalla says he's in dilemmaSerum Institute of India may halve its vaccine production at a time when new variant of SARA-CoV-2 Omicron is spreading fast in India, reports said quoting CEO Adar Poonawalla. Read more‘What’s the point of 30-40 runs?': Ex-Pakistan captain blasts India youngster; reveals why he can't rely on natural gamePrithvi Shaw's performances for India ‘A’ across the current South Africa tour have drawn criticism from former Pakistan captain Salman Butt, who lashed out at Shaw for not biding his time at the crease. Read moreAmid Katrina Kaif-Vicky Kaushal’s wedding, Kangana Ranaut lauds ‘rich, successful’ actresses for marrying younger menKangana Ranaut took to her Instagram Stories to share her thoughts on what appears to be Katrina Kaif's wedding with Vicky Kaushal. The Manikarnika actor made a reference to their age difference. Read moreHyundai to expand EV lineup in India: The what, why and howHyundai is looking at playing the electric game with far more gusto and has confirmed plans of driving in as many as six BEV (Battery Electric Vehicles) by 2028. Read moreGabriella Demetriades' animal flow workout will inspire your midweek fitness routineDressed in a grey sports bra and a grey pair of gym trousers, Gabriella can be seen engrossed in her fitness routine, in her gym. Take a look at the snippets of her fitness routine here. Read moreUmpire does upside down leg split to signal wide ball, funny video goes viralA video of an umpire’s unusual way of signaling a wide ball has left people in splits. There is a chance that the viral video will have the same effect on you too. Read moreIndian Army conducts helicopter-borne tri-service exercise in J&KIndian Army's Chinar Corps conducted a helicopter-borne training & validation exercise in J&K. The tri-service exercise was undertaken to validate joint capability to insert task force tactically. Watch||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/news-updates-from-ht-tmc-mps-to-meet-amit-shah-today-to-seek-govt-s-stance-on-afspa-and-all-the-latest-news-101638945817609.html
08-12-2021||India||Temperature in Kashmir’s Gulmarg dips to minus 6 degrees Celsius||Nights in Kashmir continue to record sub-zero temperatures with the mercury plunging to minus 6 degrees Celsius in the snow resort of Gulmarg in the north. However, the days remain warm with the sun burning bright and melting the chill away.“Today, weather is fair to partly cloudy in all the districts,” said Sonam Lotus, Jammu and Kashmir’s director of the meteorological department .The night temperature in all the weather stations remained below zero, though slightly better than Tuesday.In north Kashmir, Gulmarg recorded a slight improvement in night temperature with mercury settling at minus 6 degrees against minus 7 degrees a night earlier.In south Kashmir’s mountainous resort of Pahalgam in Anantnag district, the mercury dipped to minus 3.4 degrees against --4.8 degrees a night earlier.The summer capital Srinagar recorded minus 0.4 degrees C while it was minus 1.4 degrees C each in Kokernag and Kupwara , minus 1.5 degrees C in Khanabal and minus 1.6 degrees C in Qazigund.In the Union Territory of Ladakh, Leh recorded a minimum of minus 7.9 degrees Celsius temperature during the night.Also Read: TMC MPs to meet Amit Shah today, seek Centre’s stance on repeal of AFSPAWeather conditions improved in Jammu and Kashmir on Monday after a day of light rains and snow in J&K and Ladakh.Srinagar received rains on Sunday while snow fell on mountainous areas like Gulmarg in north Kashmir and Shopian in south Kashmir. Some areas of Jammu were also hit by hails. Moderate snowfall was also reported at Kargil, Zanskar and in the higher reaches of Leh.The director MeT said that light snow was likely at isolated places on higher reaches during December 8 and 9th. “The weather will remain mainly dry till December 15th,” he said.He said that Ladakh’s weather is generally cloudy at most places in Leh district and Panikhar-Zanskar area of Kargil district.“There was light snow over the mountains. Except light snow over Zojila-Drass, Gilgit area during 8 and 9th December, mainly dry weather [is expected] till 15th December. Overall, warmer and pleasant days and colder nights [are expected] till the 15th in both the union territories,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/night-temperature-dips-to-6-degrees-c-in-kashmir-101638946158853.html
08-12-2021||India||Nagaland civilian killings: TMC MPs to meet Amit Shah today, seek Centre's stance on repeal of AFSPA||As the chorus against the Armed Forces (Special Powers) Act (AFSPA) contiues to rise in the wake of the Nagaland civilian killings, a delegation of Trinamool Congress (TMC) MPs will meet Union home minister Amit Shah on Wednesday to urge the Union government to present its stance over the repeal of the contentious law.Also Read | New controversy raises old legal questions around AFSPAThe delegation will comprise eight MPs from the Mamata Banerjee-headed party, news agency ANI reported, citing sources from the Trinamool. The leaders will also submit to Shah a memorandum seeking financial compensation for the families of the 14 civilians who lost their lives in the northeastern state. Delhi: The TMC delegation that will meet Home Minister Amit Shah over Nagaland firing will comprise of 8 MPs of the partyDemands seeking withdrawal of AFSPA, which grants special powers to armed forces operating in ‘disturbed areas,’ have risen yet again following the Nagaland incident, in which 13 civilians, all of whom were miners, were killed last Saturday by security forces in Mon district. The central government and the Army have both described the killings as a case of ‘mistaken identity’ and expressed regret for it.Also Read | 63 years later, India must repeal AFSPAAnother civilian died on Sunday, as enraged locals attacked a camp of the Assam Rifles. The Army, too, suffered a casualty, as a jawan died on Saturday after being attacked by villagers post the botched operation.Also Read | Armed forces' excesses don't go well in democracy like India: Neiphiu RioNeiphiu Rio, the Nagaland chief minister, and Conrad Sangma, his Meghalaya counterpart, are among voices which have demanded that Afspa be removed from all of northeast. The Nagaland government said on Tuesday it will write to the Union home ministry, seeking repeal of the controversial law.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/nagaland-civilian-killings-tmc-mps-to-meet-amit-shah-today-seek-centre-s-stance-on-repeal-of-afspa-101638944879725.html
08-12-2021||India||Jacqueline Fernandez appears before ED. What's her link with conman Sukesh?||Bollywood actor Jacqueline Fernandez appeared before the Enforcement Directorate at its office in Delhi as the actor was summoned by the agency in connection with ₹200 crore extortion case involving alleged conman Sukesh Chandrasekhar. Jacqueline has been summoned after the ED in its chargesheet against alleged conman Sukesh Chandrashekhar and his wife actor Leena Maria Paul in the ₹200 crore mone laundering case mentioned Jacqueline's name.According to the chargesheet, the Sri Lankan actor received several expensive gifts from Sukesh, funded allegedly by the ill-gotten money. Chandrashekhar revealed during the interrogation that he had gifted Jacqueline a horse worth ₹52 lakh and a Persian cat worth ₹9 lakh.The case:The Delhi Police's Economic Offences Wing in August registered an FIR against Chandrashekhar for allegedly duping the spouses of former promoters of Ranbaxy, Shivinder Singh, and Malvinder Singh, of ₹200 crore. In the FIR, it was alleged that a man posed as a home ministry official promised to help them with the case of their husbands, arrested in 2019 for allegedly causing losses to the tune of over ₹2,000 crore to Religare Finvest Ltd. Investigations so far revealed that Chandrashekhar operated the plan sitting from Tihar jail with the aid of the jail officials, who were later suspended. The Controversy:Amid the peak of the controversy, some cosy selfies of Jacqueline and SAukesh went viral on social media. Those photos were believed to be clicked between April-June this year when Chandrasekhar got interim bail. It has also been reported that when Sukesh was on interim bail, he booked a chartered flight for Jacqueline from Mumbai to Chennai.What Jacqueline said:The actor has been summoned by the ED in the past too. Till now, she has maintained that she has been a victim in the case. However, she has not issued any public statement regarding her ties with Sukesh.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/jacqueline-fernandez-appears-before-ed-what-s-her-link-with-conman-sukesh-101638943917429.html
08-12-2021||India||Modi government continues to deny seriousness of price rise, says Sonia Gandhi||Congress president Sonia Gandhi lashed out at the government over price rise and the country’s economic situation on Wednesday during a speech at the general body meeting of the Congress Parliamentary Party (CPP).“I cannot understand how and why the [Narendra] Modi government is so insensitive and continues to deny the seriousness of the problem [of price rise]. It seems impervious to the suffering of the people,” she said.Gandhi said the economy had lost momentum well before the Covid-19 pandemic hit India. “The pandemic accelerated this loss. But thanks to the government’s half-hearted and ill-advised responses, the situation has become even more serious,” she said.To provide relief to the public, the government recently lowered excise rates on petrol and diesel, while some state governments also announced additional price cuts.Gandhi, however, called the Centre’s excise rate cut on fuel “totally insufficient and inadequate”. She said, “As usual, the government has passed the responsibility for duty cuts to financially strapped state governments, when it itself has far greater room for action.”“And all this while, the Centre persists with huge public expenditure on vain, glorious projects,” said Gandhi, seemingly referring to the ongoing Central Vista project. The Opposition had earlier demanded that the Central Vista redevelopment must stop and the funds should to diverted for health infrastructure and other social welfare expenses.Demanding a debate in Parliament over price rise, Gandhi said, “The prices of edible oils, pulses and vegetables are burning a hole in the monthly budget of every household. The rising prices of cement, steel and other basic industrial commodities also do not bode well for economic recovery.”She questioned the government’s claims of economic recovery, saying, “But recovery for whom is the real question?”Alleging that the government is working only for a chosen few, Gandhi said, “It means nothing to those millions who have lost their livelihoods, and to those MSMEs whose businesses have been crippled - not just by the Covid-19 pandemic, but also by the combined effects of note bandi (demonetisation) and the hasty implementation of a flawed GST.”
08-12-2021||India||‘It had flaws’: SKM sends Centre's draft proposal back to it with amendments||The Samyukt Kisan Morcha (SKM) said on Wednesday that the draft proposal sent to it by the Centre a day ago had some flaws, adding that it sent back the proposal last night itself after making some amendments to it.Also Read | Centre sends proposal to SKM, farm leaders raise objections over few issues“We appreciate that the government is ready for talks and is giving something in writing. But the proposal had a few flaws, so last night, we sent it back with some amendments and are awaiting the government's response," Ashok Dhawale, who is on the SKM's 5-member committee to negotiate with the Centre on the remaining issues post the repeal of the farm laws, said, according to news agency ANI.
08-12-2021||India||Despite success story, Darbhanga airport faces infra bottleneck||With the movement of 600,000 passengers and more than 4,100 flights a year, the Darbhanga airport’s success story continues despite the lack of adequate infrastructure and passengers amenities. Launched under the Centre’s UDAN scheme, aimed to bring air connectivity to smaller cities, footfall at the Darbhanga airport has grown steadily to reach record levels in November with 75,574 passengers arriving or leaving on 488 flights, according to data released by the Airport Authority of India (AAI).In comparison the airport recorded 24,833 passengers and 140 flights in the first month after its launch on November 8, 2020.Darbhanga airport crossed the milestone of over 100,000 footfalls in February, 200,000 mark in May, 300,000 in July, 400,000 in September, 500,000 in October and 600,000 in the first week of December itself.The growth in passenger traffic and flight operations may slow down in the coming days due to poor visibility in foggy conditions during the winter months. Recently a Darbhanga-Mumbai flight (SG116) was cancelled due to sunset and Air Traffic Control (ATC) as well as Indian Air Force’s (IAF) watch hour restrictions as the airport is under the control of IAF. Passengers also regularly complain about the small terminal building, lack of parking and associated mismanagement at the airport, which they say is crying for an infrastructure upgrade and better management.Also Read: India reports 8,439 new Covid-19 cases, 23.7% higher than yesterdayRecently, Darbhanga district magistrate Thiyagarajan SM told this reporter that the work on separate entry from adjacent Darbhanga-Jaynagar road (NH) to Airport’s civil enclave had begun and it would obviate the need to enter via gate number two, generally called the IAF gate.Meanwhile, due to the huge rush caused by delayed flights, passengers entry to the terminal building will be allowed only two hours before the actual time of flight departure.Bihar government recently sanctioned ₹336.76 crore for acquisition of 78 acres of land for the construction of a permanent terminal building and installation of navigational facilities at Darbhanga airport.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/despite-6-lakh-flyers-a-year-darbhanga-airport-faces-infra-bottleneck-101638941178126.html
08-12-2021||India||Suspension of 12 Rajya Sabha MPs ‘outrageous’ and ‘unprecedented’: Sonia Gandhi||Congress president Sonia Gandhi on Wednesday called the suspension of 12 Rajya Sabha MPs “outrageous” and “unprecedented”, saying the decision “shook us all”. She added that their suspension from the entire winter session of Parliament “violates both the Constitution and the Rules of Procedure and Conduct of Business in the Council of States”.She made the remarks during a speech at the general body meeting of the Congress Parliamentary Party (CPP).On the civilian killings in Nagaland, Gandhi said the government expressing regret is not enough, and demanded “credible steps” to prevent any future occurrence of such “ghastly tragedies”.
08-12-2021||India||India reports 8,439 new Covid-19 cases, 23.7% higher than yesterday||India on Wednesday reported 8,439 cases of Covid-19 in the last 24 hours. It is 23.7% higher than Tuesday when the total caseload saw a rise of 6,822, according to the data by the Union ministry of health and family welfare. The cumulative now stands at 3,46,56,822 including 473,952 deaths, according to the health ministry.The active caseload fell lowest in the last 555 days and now stands at 93,733. With 0.27 per cent, it currently accounts for less than 1 per cent of total cases.The daily positivity rate also slightly increased as it reached 0.70 per cent on Wednesday. It has been less than two per cent for the last 65 days, while the weekly positivity rate (0.76%) remained below one per cent.The country has administered 1.29 billion vaccine doses so far, the health ministry also said.Meanwhile, 23 people are found to be infected with the Omicron variant of the Covid-19 in India. So far, Karnataka, Delhi, Maharashtra, Gujarat and Rajasthan have reported Omicron infections in international passengers in the country.The Omicron variant first emerged in southern Africa late last month. The scientists there identified the fast-spreading strain in one of the samples taken from Botswana. Since then, Omicron has spread to two dozen countries.The World Health Organization (WHO) has categorised Omicron ‘variant of concern’ due to its highly contagious nature. The world body also warned people to remain cautious and asked to follow the health protocol strictly.In view of the Omicron, the Indian government implemented strict measures for international travellers, especially those who are arriving from Omicron-hit places, categorised as ‘at risk’ countries.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/india-reports-8-439-new-covid-19-cases-23-7-higher-than-yesterday-101638939781449.html
08-12-2021||India||CPP meet: Sonia Gandhi targets Centre over farmers' row, condemns suspension of MPs||Congress interim president Sonia Gandhi on Wednesday morning attended a crucial parliamentary party meeting, where she highlighted a number of matters at hand, ranging from the farmers' crisis to border issues. Gandhi also addressed last week's suspension of 12 MPs from the Rajya Sabha for “unruly conduct”, and said that the Congress party is in complete solidarity with the suspended lawmakers.The key parliamentary party meeting on Wednesday, at the Central Hall of Parliament House in New Delhi, came amid protests by the opposition parties over the suspension of Parliamentarians last week. The opposition MPs now plan to hold a sit-in protest in front of the Gandhi statue on Parliament premises later on in the day.
08-12-2021||India||Centre to organise sports event for women govt employees on Dec 22||As part of the Azadi Ka Amrit Mahotsav celebrations, the Central Civil Services Cultural and Sports Board (CCSCSB) will organise a women’s sports meet for Central government employees across all ministries and departments on December 22 at the Vinay Marg Sports Complex in New Delhi’s Chanakyapuri area.“All civilian women employees of government of India are invited to participate in the events to promote women’s participation in sports,” said the press release issued by the ministry of personnel, public grievances & pensions.It further read, “The purpose of organising this women’s sports meet is to create awareness and to enhance women’s participation in various cultural and sports activities… and to inform them about the benefits, facilities and incentives provided to sportsperson by the govt.” The ministry said it believes this will also help women adopt healthier lifestyles and increase their confidence, self-esteem, teamwork, improve social skills and support positive mental health.Also Read | Almost ₹1,700 crore spent on advertisements in three years: CentreThe ministry also listed the sports events that will feature at the event, some of which include- track and field, cricket (6 overs, 6 aside), powerlifting, kabaddi (6 aside for 10 minutes), football (6 aside for 15 minutes) among others. The winners of each event will be awarded medals and participation certificates will be awarded to all. According to the press note issued by the ministry, only fully vaccinated employees will be permitted to participate in the event and the vaccination certificate will be checked at the entry point.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/centre-organising-sports-event-for-women-government-employees-101638939198470.html
08-12-2021||India||Sikkim to allow entry of foreigners carrying negative RT-PCR report||Sikkim has partially relaxed a ban on the entry of foreign nationals and instead made it mandatory for them to carry an RT-PCR negative report for entry into the state. The eastern state shares international borders with Nepal, Bhutan and China. The ban was imposed last week due to the threat of the Omicron variant of the Sars-Cov-2 virus. “All foreigners including those from Nepal, Bhutan and Bangladesh who are already in India for more than 10 days and are travelling to Sikkim shall be permitted to enter the state provided they produce a negative RT-PCR test report conducted within 72 hours of their entry to the state,” said an order issued by SC Gupta, chief secretary of Sikkim. Sikkim had banned entry of foreign nationals in March last year following the outbreak of Covid-19 cases in India. It was also one of the few states to announce an early ban on the entry of people from outside the state, last year. Also Read: Mehbooba seeks removal of AFSPA from J&K, NE areas where militancy has reducedThe four-day-long Sikkim Global Film Festival, which was supposed to begin on December 10 in Gangtok has already been called off. The state till Tuesday has reported 405 deaths due to Covid 19 and 32,382 positive cases out of which 31,438 have recovered. Eight new Covid-19 cases were reported on Tuesday apart from 24 recoveries. The Centre has designated European countries, including the UK, South Africa, Brazil, Botswana, China, Mauritius, New Zealand, Zimbabwe, Singapore, Hong Kong and Israel as “at-risk” since the Omicron variant is believed to have spread to these countries first.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/sikkim-to-allow-entry-of-foreigners-carrying-negative-rt-pcr-report-101638938418457.html
08-12-2021||NA||Parliament LIVE: Rajnath Singh to address both houses tomorrow on IAF chopper crash||Defence minister Rajnath Singh will brief Parliament on the IAF chopper crash near Tamil Nadu's Coonoor on Thursday, and not today, as speculated earlier. Chief of defence staff General Bipin Rawat and his wife Madhulika were among the 14 passengers on board. Wednesday is day 8 of the ongoing Winter session of Parliament, which began on November 29 and will conclude on December 23. On the first day, the bill repealing the three contentious central agricultural laws was passed in both Houses. In an address to the nation on November 19, Prime Minister Narendra Modi announced the withdrawal of the laws.Follow all the updates here:IAF chopper crash: Rajnath Singh to address both houses of Parliament tomorrowUnion defence minister Rajnath Singh will address both houses of Parliament on Thursday (December 9) regarding the IAF chopper crash near Coonoor, Tamil Nadu, in which Chief of Defence Staff General Bipin Rawat, his wife and 11 others were killed. Lok Sabha adjourned till 11am, December 9Lok Sabha adjourned till 11 am tomorrow (December 9) pic.twitter.com/Uz9NmwEpLxThe Lok Sabha was adjourned till 11am tomorrow (December 9), reports ANI. Rajya Sabha MP's suspension: Opposition leaders to meet tomorrow Oppostion leaders'to meet tomorrow at LoP Rajya Sabha Mallikarjun Kharge's office in Parliament to decide the strategy for the floor of the House.Rajya Sabha adjourned till tomorrowRajya Sabha adjourned till 11 am on Thursday, December 9.IAF chopper crash: Defence minister's statement tomorrowDefence minister Rajnath Singh will issue a statement in Parliament on the IAF chopper crash on Thursday.490 candidates selected for Delhi Police from northeast: MHAA total of 490 candidates (in 2016 and 2018) were selected through Special Recruitment Drive from all eight northeastern states to fill up vacancies to the post of Constable (Executive) in Delhi Police: Nityanand Rai, MoS (Home), in Rajya SabhaLok Sabha passes HC & SC Judges Salaries Amendment BillLok Sabha passes the High Court and Supreme Court Judges (Salaries and Conditions of Service) Amendment Bill, 2021. The Bill seeks to bring clarity concerning the date of eligibility of additional quantum of pension to a retired judge.IAF chopper crash: Defence minister to make statementDefence minister Rajnath Singh to brief Parliament on IAF chopper crash. CDS General Bipin Rawat and his wife were among 14 passengers onboard.‘BJP also used to protest when they were in Opposition’Nobody has committed any mistake or violated rules. Everybody has the rights to protest. The BJP did it during Arun Jaitley’s time, justifying disruption as a part of democracy. Out of 12 suspended MPs, none threw papers or broke mic: Mallikarjun Kharge, LoP, Rajya SabhaNo drugs confiscated from Mundra port before recent seizure, says MHAAs per NCB records, no drugs were confiscated from Mundra Port in Gujarat before the seizure of 2988.21 kgs of heroin: Home ministry in Rajya SabhaTotal 101 people died in ‘rioting’ from 2018-2020A total of 101 people died while 3,366 people got injured in 'rioting' during 2018-2020: MHA in Rajya SabhaNo Kashmiri Pandit displaced from Valley post 370 repeal, says MHAAfter the repeal of Article 370, no Kashmiri Panditor Hindu has been displaced from the Kashmir Valley: Union Home Ministry in Rajya SabhaRajya Sabha proceedings resume, Opposition boycottsProceedings in Rajya Sabha resume as Opposition MPs continue to boycott House. Telugu Desam Party (TDP) only Opposition party not to boycott.‘Request suspended MPs to tender apology’: Pralhad JoshiEven yesterday, I said that we are ready to take back suspension of 12 MPs if they are ready to apologise. Once again, I request them to tender apology because they have committed a grave mistake: Pralhad Joshi, parliamentary affairs ministerRajya Sabha adjourned till 12pmRajya Sabha adjourned till 12pm following ruckus by Opposition over the suspension of 12 MPs.PM Modi meets senior ministers in ParliamentPrime Minister Narendra Modi holds meet with senior ministers in Parliament. Union Ministers Rajnath Singh, Pralhad Joshi, Nirmala Sitharaman among the attendees.Nagaland killings: NPF MP gives adjournment motion notice in RSNaga People's Front (NPF) MP KG Kenye gives suspension of business notice in Rajya Sabha under Rule 267 to discuss the death of civilians in Nagaland in an anti-insurgency operation that went awry.Cong MP gives adjournment motion notice to discuss China-Bhutan MoUManish Tewari gives adjournment motion notice in Lok Sabha to discuss Sino-Bhutan MoU on three-step resolution of boundary disputes, that he says, could lead to the transfer of strategically important territory of Doklam being transferred to China.RJD gives adjournment motion notice in RS over AfspaRJD MP Manoj Jha gives suspension of business notice in Rajya Sabha under Rule 267 to discuss the repeal of Armed Forces Special Powers Act (Afspa).||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/parliament-winter-session-live-updates-december-8-2021-101638936768768.html
08-12-2021||India||Debate on judges’ salaries, services bill among key legislative agenda today||On Wednesday, the Lok Sabha will continue the debate on the High Court & Supreme Court Judges (Salaries & Conditions of Service) Amendment Bill, 2021 after more than four hours of discussions on Tuesday following its introduction by law minister Kiren Rijiju.The Bill proposes to alter the High Court Judges (Salaries and Conditions of Service) Act and the Supreme Court Judges (Salaries and Conditions of Service) Act to bring clarity concerning the date on which a retired judge becomes eligible for an additional quantum of pension. The bill further proposes to insert an explanation in sections 17B of the HC Judges Act and 16B of the Supreme Court Judges Act to clarify the government’s objective.Among other important bills, the Dam Safety Bill, 2019, which was passed by Rajya Sabha last week, will be introduced in Lok Sabha on Wednesday. Union Jal Shakti minister Gajendra Singh Shekhawat said a national policy on the safe management of dams had been pending for 40 years.The Central Vigilance Commission (Amendment) Bill, 2021 is also expected to be introduced in the Lok Sabha. It amends the Central Vigilance Commission Act, 2003. Also Read: SKM’s 5-member panel to meet today for ‘urgent meeting’ in DelhiFor the third consecutive day, the Assisted Reproductive Technology (Regulations) Bill 2020 and the Surrogacy (Regulations) Bill, 2020 are on Rajya Sabha’s agenda. The Upper House did not transact any significant business on Tuesday as opposition parties kept up their protest, demanding revocation of suspension of 12 MPs.The government, however, insisted that the suspended MPs will have to first apologise for their unruly conduct in the House during the Monsoon session.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/debate-on-judges-salaries-services-bill-among-key-legislative-agenda-for-wednesday-101638937157812.html
08-12-2021||India||Almost ₹1,700 crore spent on advertisements in three years: Centre||The Central government on Tuesday told the Parliament that it spent almost ₹1,700 crore on advertisements in print and electronic media between 2018 and 2021.Replying to a question by All India United Democratic Front (AIUDF) lawmaker Badruddin Ajmal, information and broadcasting minister Anurag Thakur said the amount committed for advertisements by the government through print and electronic media during the period 2018-19 to 2020-21 was ₹1,698.98 crore.“The primary objective of the government advertising is to create awareness of government policies and schemes among the intended beneficiaries including the population living in far flung and remote areas, through Print, Electronic & Outdoor Media,” said Thakur in a written statement.The data shared by the ministry showed that the government spent a total of ₹826.5 crore on advertisements in newspapers. It said ₹118.59 crore was spent on advertisements in 6,085 newspapers in 2020-21, ₹200 crore in 5,365 newspapers in 2019-20 and ₹507.9 crore was spent on ads in 6,119 newspapers in 2018-19.For advertisements in electronic media, the government spent a total of ₹193.52 crore in the last three years, it said.Also Read: SKM’s 5-member panel to meet today for ‘urgent meeting’ in DelhiThakur had earlier told the Parliament that the government has reduced spending on advertisements by reducing the size of non-communication advertisements like inviting tender or job vacancies and by giving only bare minimum information with links for further details.The cost-cutting comes close after in response to a Right to Information (RTI) plea filed by activist Jatin Desai, the Bureau of Outreach and Communication said a cumulative of ₹1.95 crore was spent per day on advertisements in 2019-20. It included ₹295.05 crore spent on print advertisement, ₹317.05 crore on electronic media and ₹101.1 crore on outdoor advertisements in the form of hoardings and billboards.Even though the Bureau made major reveals, it had failed to furnish information on the amount spent on advertisements in foreign media.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/almost-rs-1700-crores-spent-on-advertisements-in-3-years-centre-101638936017747.html
08-12-2021||India||SKM's 5-member panel to meet today for 'urgent meeting' in Delhi||A five-member committee of Samyukta Kisan Morcha (SKM) will hold an urgent meeting in New Delhi on Wednesday at 10am to decide whether the ongoing protest of the farmers can be called off. The panel members include farmer leaders Balbir Singh Rajewal, Ashok Dhawle, Shiv Kumar Kakka, Gurnam Singh Chaduni and Yudhvir Singh.On Saturday, the SKM formed a five-member panel, which will hold talks with the government on the pending demands of the protesting farmers, including a legal guarantee on Minimum Support Price (MSP) for crops, compensation to the kin of the farmers who died during the agitation against three agriculture laws and the withdrawal of cases against the protesters.On Tuesday, the SKM said there was no consensus yet on ending the protests as the government has now repealed the three contentious legislations.The government has sent a proposal to farmers, in which the government asked farmers to end protests and assured them that it would look into the pending demands. The government’s proposal also said that it will form a committee to look into the demand for a legal guarantee on MSP. The panel will include farmers' organisations outside the SKM, government officials and representatives of states, it stated in the proposal.However, the farmers have sought clarifications on certain points, including on the precondition set for the withdrawal of "fake" cases against farmers, their leaders said on Tuesday."We do not want other committees who have been against our demands since the start to be part of the panel on MSP. We have demanded the government give a clarification in this regard," PTI quoted farmer leader Balbir Singh Rajewal, as saying."We are also against the condition set by the government that farm unions should lift the protest for the withdrawal of fake cases against farmers," he added.Farmers have been agitating at Delhi borders since November last year after the government enacted three legislations on agriculture. The laws have been now revoked, and the farmers have asserted that the protests will continue until the government agrees on their other demands.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/skms-5-member-panel-to-meet-today-for-urgent-meeting-in-delhi-101638935628315.html
08-12-2021||India||Mehbooba seeks removal of AFSPA from J&K, NE areas where militancy has reduced||Former Jammu and Kashmir chief minister and People’s Democratic Party (PDP) chief Mehbooba Mufti on Tuesday said the Armed Forces (Special Powers) Act (AFSPA) should be removed in areas in the Northeast, where militancy-related violence has reduced, and also from J&K. Speaking on Jammu and Kashmir politics, she said she was firm on her decision to not fight assembly elections herself till the Centre restored Article 370, but added that her party will contest polls so as to not cede democratic space to political adversaries in the region. “AFSPA should be removed area wise where militancy has reduced. This can be a good start in northeast states and J&K. After all we live in a democracy and you can’t keep people together by using force,” said Mufti during a media interaction in Delhi on Tuesday.Referring to the killing of at least 14 civilians in Nagaland by the Indian Army in a botched counter-insurgency operation, she tweeted on Monday, “Welcome the move to initiate action against armed forces responsible for gunning down 15 innocent civilians in Nagaland. In J&K such incidents are brushed under the carpet & families have to beg for the bodies of loved ones killed in fake encounters.”Referring to the Centre’s decision to enhance the jurisdiction of Border Security Force (BSF) along international borders in four states including Punjab and West Bengal, Mufti said, “As they can’t fight in these areas politically so they are using the forces for that.”Mufti accused the government of working with a colonial mindset. “J&K has become a laboratory. They started the testing for destroying the constitution with J&K by removing Article 370, then [through] NRC (National Register of Citizens) and CAA (Citizenship Amendment Act).”She said that unlike the present NDA government, the one led by former Prime Minister Atal Bihari Vajpayee believed in dialogue and it was because of him that Pakistan agreed to find a solution through discussion after Kargil. “Unfortunately, Vajpayee ji ne Balakot nahi kiya. Nahi toh shayad ek term mil jata aur Jammu and Kashmir ki samasya ka samadhan bhi ho gaya hota. (Unfortunately, Vajpayee ji didn’t order for Balakot (air strike) else he would have won a second term and resolved the Kashmir issue),” she said.Also Read: Top leaders get into campaign mode as political temperature soars in J&KWith the delimitation exercise going on in J&K, Mufti said that it is being carried out with an agenda to benefit the BJP. “In certain regions, seats are being organised in a way so that there is a division of votes…it is going to benefit them.”PDP chief said she won’t contest the elections but the party will definitely fight the assembly elections. “We want to occupy the democratic space in the state so that we will not allow them to have a free run. As far as I’m concerned, I won’t be fighting any elections till 370 and 35A are restored. I have made that very clear,” she said.Mufti, who staged a protest at Jantar Mantar on Monday, said that the situation in J&K has deteriorated and people feel suffocated. She claimed that the Central government is propagating a false narrative that the situation in the region has improved.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/mufti-seeks-removal-of-afspa-from-j-k-ne-areas-where-militancy-has-reduced-101638934877609.html
08-12-2021||India||News updates from HT: ED to question Jacqueline Fernandez over extortion case and all the latest news||Here are today’s top news, analysis, and opinion. Know all about the latest news and other news updates from Hindustan Times.ED to question Jacqueline Fernandez over extortion case todayBollywood actor Jacqueline Fernandez has been summoned by the Enforcement Directorate (ED) on Wednesday in connection with an ongoing money-laundering investigation against alleged conman Sukesh Chandrashekhar and others. Read MoreRBI policy review amid Omicron scare: Repo rate, reverse repo rate likely to remain unchangedThe Reserve Bank of India is likely to maintain the status quo on borrowing and lending rates as the policy review committee meets on Wednesday, amid the worldwide concerns over the Omicron variant of Covid. Reuters surveyed 50 economists who expected the RBI to hold its benchmark repo rate at 4.00%. The reverse repo rate - the interest rate that RBI borrows from the banks - is mostly expected to remain unchanged at 3.35%, though some economists predict a small rise in this rate. Read More'It's happened to the best': Ravi Shastri gives Gavaskar and Tendulkar's examples to defend Virat Kohli's captaincy callFormer India coach Ravi Shastri has given his take on Virat Kohli's captaincy and backed his decision to step down as India's T20I skipper. Shastri and Kohli's association has worked wonders for Team India, with the team playing some of its best cricket during their partnership. Weighing in on Kohli's captaincy, Shastri explained that it is easy to point out the flaws on the basis of the results, but what the Indian star has achieved during his tenure is something to be proud of. Read MoreInside Kareena Kapoor, Karisma, Malaika Arora, Masaba Gupta's early Christmas party at Rhea Kapoor's home. See picsFilm producer Rhea Kapoor hosted a party for Kareena Kapoor, Karisma Kapoor, Malaika Arora, Masaba Gupta, Amrita Arora, and Poonam Damania at her Mumbai home. Taking to Instagram Stories, the guests shared video clips and pictures as they enjoyed their girls' night out. Read MoreShilpa Shetty is the real 'Flaming-oh' in a fiery red dressShilpa Shetty stepped into the sets of India's Got Talent on Tuesday in a stunning red ensemble. The actor is an absolute fashionista and her wardrobe collections always manage to put fashion police on immediate alert. Shilpa is currently starring as one of the judges of the Television reality show India's Got Talent, and often snippets of her behind the scene ventures from the sets make their way on her Instagram profile. Read MoreAustralia follows US in diplomatic boycott of Beijing OlympicsAustralia will not send officials to the upcoming winter Olympics in Beijing, Prime Minister Scott Morrison said Wednesday, joining a US diplomatic boycott of the event. Canberra's decision comes amid “disagreement” with China over a number of issues, including Australia's foreign interference laws and a recent decision to acquire nuclear-powered submarines, Morrison said. Read MorePfizer shot gives less immunity to Omicron than to other strains: Early studyResearchers in South Africa have found in an early study that Pfizer's vaccine against the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) actually provides less immunity to the Omicron variant than to other major versions of the virus. In lab experiments conducted at the Africa Health Research Institute in Durban, it was observed that Omicron resulted in about a 40-fold reduction in levels of neutralising antibodies produced by people who had received two doses of the Pfizer-BioNTech SE shot, compared with the strain detected in China almost two years ago. Read MoreShashi Tharoor explains who a 'bhakt' is after being trolled for pic at weddingA photo of Congress MP Shashi Tharoor along with a bridegroom went viral on Twitter which did not go down well with Tharoor who sharply gave back to the trolls saying it is not cool to drag 'non-political' people into malice on part of the 'bhakts'. As an unrelenting social media user asked the MP the definition of a 'bhakt', the Congress MP explained. Read More'It's happened to the best': Ravi Shastri gives Gavaskar and Tendulkar's examples to defend Virat Kohli's captaincy callFormer India coach Ravi Shastri has given his take on Virat Kohli's captaincy and backed his decision to step down as India's T20I skipper. Shastri and Kohli's association has worked wonders for Team India, with the team playing some of its best cricket during their partnership. Weighing in on Kohli's captaincy, Shastri explained that it is easy to point out the flaws on the basis of the results, but what the Indian star has achieved during his tenure is something to be proud of. Read MoreInside Kareena Kapoor, Karisma, Malaika Arora, Masaba Gupta's early Christmas party at Rhea Kapoor's home. See picsFilm producer Rhea Kapoor hosted a party for Kareena Kapoor, Karisma Kapoor, Malaika Arora, Masaba Gupta, Amrita Arora, and Poonam Damania at her Mumbai home. Taking to Instagram Stories, the guests shared video clips and pictures as they enjoyed their girls' night out. Read MoreShilpa Shetty is the real 'Flaming-oh' in a fiery red dressShilpa Shetty stepped into the sets of India's Got Talent on Tuesday in a stunning red ensemble. The actor is an absolute fashionista and her wardrobe collections always manage to put fashion police on immediate alert. Shilpa is currently starring as one of the judges of the Television reality show India's Got Talent, and often snippets of her behind the scene ventures from the sets make their way on her Instagram profile. Read More||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/news-updates-from-ht-ed-to-question-jacqueline-fernandez-over-extortion-case-and-all-the-latest-news-101638932146196.html
08-12-2021||India||‘No talks on third front,' says NCP's Nawab Malik amid Banerjee's UPA jibe||Nationalist Congress Party (NCP) leader Nawab Malik has categorically denied any attempts being made to form a third front as he said NCP chief Sharad Pawar will work to bring all non-BJP parties, including Mamata Banerjee's Trinamool Congress, under the ambit of the United Progressive Alliance (UPA).Malik gave the statement while speaking to the media after the party's national executive meeting in Delhi. The meeting was significant as it was being held days after Pawar met West Bengal chief minister and TMC supremo Mamata Banerjee. Following that meeting, Banerjee questioned UPA's existence and said there is no UPA. She had also made an assertion to form "a strong alternative force" to oust the BJP from the Centre. "No one can do it alone. We all need a strong alternative and if someone is not ready to fight, then what can be done," she said on December 1.The comment drew major criticism from Congress, with senior leaders slamming Mamata and accusing her of "posturing for personal ambition". While the NCP is in alliance with Congress in Maharashtra, it has distanced itself from Banerjee's statements."Sharad Pawar has such a power that if he can form the government in Maharashtra by bringing Shiv Sena and Congress on one platform. Then Sharad Pawar can also bring non-BJP parties across the country on one platform and a strong Opposition to defeat BJP," Malik said on Tuesday.Speaking on whether Banerjee will be part of UPA in the future, the NCP leader said talks will be held with the Bengal leader to bring her into the UPA fold. "If Shiv Sena and Congress can sit together in Maharashtra, NCP can play a part in it, then talks can also be held with Mamata Banerjee," he also said."There will be no front except the ruling party and the Opposition," Malik said. "There is an ideological fight in the country. There is a fascist ideology, which is the ideology of the BJP," he added"NCP will try to bring together all those who want to fight against this ideology," he said.According to a PTI report by, TMC's national general secretary Abhishek Banerjee has conveyed to all its MPs that the party will not play second fiddle to anyone, including the Congress.Trinamool Congress was once part of the UPA, an alliance of several parties including Congress that remained in power at the Center for 10 years from 2004 to 2014.After the TMC's landslide victory in West Bengal Assembly polls held earlier this year, Banerjee is continuously pitching for a strong alternative at the national level, in a seeming attempt to go pan-national.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/no-talks-on-third-front-says-ncp-s-nawab-malik-amid-banerjee-s-upa-jibe-101638928198328.html
08-12-2021||India||Shashi Tharoor explains who a 'bhakt' is after being trolled for pic at wedding||A photo of Congress MP Shashi Tharoor along with a bridegroom went viral on Twitter which did not go down well with Tharoor who sharply gave back to the trolls saying it is not cool to drag 'non-political' people into malice on part of the 'bhakts'. As an unrelenting social media user asked the MP the definition of a 'bhakt', the Congress MP explained.In the said photo, Tharoor was seen with the bride and the groom wearing a safa and a decorative garland. The photo invited different kinds of trolling with one user saying that she deleted the photo "because the bride and groom and Modi Bhakts".The wedding was of Abhishek Kulkarni, MD and group CEO of Urbane Media Network and model, pilot Chahat Dalal.Shashi Tharoor clarifies selfie with Mimi, Nusrat and other women MPs after backlash I am used to being trolled by an organised brigade of Bhakts &I can take it, knowing it comes w/the territory. But dragging non-political people into your malice is not cool, & insulting a young couple on their wedding day to take cheap shots at their guest is disgraceful. 🚫🔚🙏 https://t.co/qnkIUQtMOg"I am used to being trolled by an organised brigade of Bhakts &I can take it, knowing it comes within the territory. But dragging non-political people into your malice is not cool, & insulting a young couple on their wedding day to take cheap shots at their guest is disgraceful," Tharoor tweeted. Bhakti towards the divine is to be respected. Bhakti towards a political leader or cause, especially in the name of religion, is deplorable. “Bhakts” in the latter sense refers to the devotees of the Sangh Parivar & Moditva. https://t.co/goyMAGoQR1As another user asked him what he meant by 'bhakts' and is bhakts are not God's devotees, the Congress MP tweeted, "Bhakti towards the divine is to be respected. Bhakti towards a political leader or cause, especially in the name of religion, is deplorable. Bhakts in the latter sense refers to the devotees of the Sangh Parivar & Moditva."
08-12-2021||India||India develops AESA radar to make IAF fighters more lethal||Later this month, the Indian Air Force (IAF) will demonstrate the use of an indigenously developed active electronically scanned array (AESA) radar, making India one of the few countries to have an indigenous force-multiplier that lies at the heart of electronic warfare, long-range missiles, and long-distance, precision-guided ammunition.Project director D Seshagiri of Electronics and Radar Development Establishment (LRDE) confirmed this and said that the developed AESA radar is 95% indigenous, with only one imported subsystem. It has the capacity to track 50 targets in the sky at a range in excess of 100km and engage four of them simultaneously.In the next five years, all 83 of IAF’s Tejas Mark I A fighters will have this radar, as will the future twin-engine AMCA fighter developed by the Aeronautical Development Agency (ADA).The AESA radar will be mounted on the radar cone of Su-30 MKI aircraft as well as carrier-based MiG-29 K fighters of the Indian military, according to Seshagiri. “Already, the LRDE has signed an MoU with Hindustan Aeronautics Limited for being the lead integrator of the radar on the Tejas Mk I A with four identified vendors including BEL being the suppliers of key sub-systems.”The first 16 Tejas MK 1A aircraft will be fitted with Israeli ELM 2052 AESA radars and the remaining will be fitted with the indigenous Uttam AESA radar, HT has learnt. “The radar has already been tested on two Tejas fighters as well as Hawker Siddeley 800 executive jet for over 250 hours. The radar will be finally demonstrated in a flight this month with the force multiplier ready for production. Only the US, the EU, Israel, and China have AESA radar capability,” Seshagiri said.The National Flight Testing Centre, which is manned by IAF, has already greenlighted the radar after successful performance tests. Earlier, India was using primary radars on its fighters as well as indigenous airborne warning and control systems planes. The Pakistani Air Force’s retaliation for the Balakot strike in February 2019 would have turned costly for Islamabad if Indian fighters had AESA radars mounted on intercepting fighters.The AESA radar is also the key to the DRDO-developed Astra air-to-air missile, which has a range well over 120km, and will deliver guided ammunition over long distances. This radar will nullify the air superiority China had gained with its J20 multi-role fighters, as the Indian-developed AESA radar compares well with that developed by Beijing.
08-12-2021||India||ED to question Jacqueline Fernandez over extortion case today||Bollywood actor Jacqueline Fernandez has been summoned by the Enforcement Directorate (ED) on Wednesday in connection with an ongoing money-laundering investigation against alleged conman Sukesh Chandrashekhar and others.The summon notice was issued on December 6. According to her spokesperson, she is testifying before the agency as a witness.On Sunday, the actor was briefly detained at the Mumbai airport, minutes before she was scheduled to fly abroad. Some agency officials reached the airport and disallowed the actor from travelling; Fernandez was then asked to remain in the country as she might be required to join the investigation.She was reportedly flying to Dubai. After a brief detention, the actor left the airport at around 6pm.In the past, Jaqueline had been questioned by the agency multiple times.The federal agency is investigating a ₹200 crore money laundering case against Chandrashekhar and his actor wife Leena Maria Paul. He is accused of cheating some high-profile individuals, including former Fortis Healthcare promoter Shivinder Mohan Singh's wife Aditi Singh.According to the charge sheet filed before the special Prevention of Money Laundering Act (PMLA) court, Chandrashekhar gave expensive gifts to Fernandez, including a Persian cat worth ₹9 lakh and a horse.Another famous Bollywood actor and dancer Nora Fatehi has also been questioned by ED in the case.As per the investigation, Chandrashekhar was lodged in the Rohini jail in Delhi, when he allegedly ran an extortion racket using phone spoofing technology. In August this year, the ED raided some of Chandrashekhar's premises and seized a sea-facing bungalow in Chennai, ₹82.5 lakh in cash and over a dozen luxury cars.It had claimed in a statement that Chandrashekhar is a "known conman" and is being probed by the Delhi Police in a case of alleged criminal conspiracy, cheating and extortion to the tune of about ₹200 crore.The Delhi Police has also alleged that Paul and Chandrashekhar, along with others, used Hawala routes, created shell companies to park the money earned from proceeds of crime.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/ed-to-question-jacqueline-fernandez-over-extortion-case-today-101638922649024.html
08-12-2021||India||Supreme Court tells Centre to decide on Rajiv Gandhi killer’s mercy plea||NEW DELHI: The Supreme Court on Tuesday told the Centre to decide soon on the mercy petition filed by former prime minister Rajiv Gandhi murder convict AG Perarivalan and posted his petition seeking premature release on ground of delay in deciding his clemency to January.Perarivalan filed his mercy plea before the Tamil Nadu governor in December 2015 under Article 161 of the Constitution which deals with remission powers of the Governor. After a delay of over five years, the governor decided in January this year to send the matter to the President. Since then, the matter was adjourned on two occasions and came up for hearing only on Tuesday.A bench headed by justice L Nageswara Rao said, “This matter has been pending for a long time. Decide it. We will post it in January next year.”Senior advocate Gopal Shankarnaraynan appearing for Perarivalan said the petitioner has been in jail for three decades and urged the court to bring the governor’s decision on record. “The governor is not a party to the proceedings filed by Perarivalan. However, on January 21, the governor intervened in the proceedings through solicitor general Tushar Mehta and informed that the mercy plea will be decided within a week,” he said.The governor took a decision on January 25 which was conveyed to the court that the competent authority to decide on Perarivalan’s remission was the President. Without specifying any time-frame, the Centre informed the top court that the proposal received from the governor will be processed in accordance with the law. No time frame was proposed for taking a decision.Perarivalan moved the Supreme Court in 2016 for an early decision on his pending remission plea. He was among the seven people convicted by a special TADA court for being part of the conspiracy to assassinate former PM Rajiv Gandhi on May 21, 1991. He is currently serving life sentence for having supplied the battery used in the bomb that resulted in the death of the former prime minister.Perarivalan said in his petition that the investigating officer in the Rajiv Gandhi assassination case later made a disclosure that he made a mistake by excluding the exculpatory parts of the statement given by him during the recording of his evidence where he categorically denied having any knowledge of the assassination plot while supplying the battery.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/supreme-court-tells-centre-to-decide-on-rajiv-gandhi-killer-s-mercy-plea-101638906312962.html
08-12-2021||India||321 die cleaning sewers in 5 years: Govt to Lok Sabha||New Delhi: India has abolished manual scavenging, but at least 321 people died while cleaning sewers and septic tanks in the past five years, the central government said in a raft of responses to Parliament on Tuesday. In response to questions by Bahujan Samaj Party (BSP) member Girish Chandra and Telugu Desam Party (TDP) lawmaker Kesineni Srinivas, the government told Lok Sabha that there were no reports of manual scavengers being engaged in India at present. “Government has been able to achieve the target of abolition of manual scavenging. All identified and eligible manual scavengers have been provided assistance for their rehabilitation,” social justice minister Virendra Kumar said in a written response. As per the 2013 Prohibition of Employment as Manual Scavengers and Their Rehabilitation Act, manual scavenging referred to manually cleaning, carrying, disposing of, or handling in any manner, human excreta in an insanitary latrine, he said. A mobile application launched on December 24, 2020, to identify unsanitary latrines and manual scavengers found no such existence, the minister said. “Therefore, there is no report of practice of manual scavenging currently in the country,” he added. However, in response to another question by Congress parliamentarian B Manickam Tagore, junior social justice minister Ramdas Athawale said 321 people died while cleaning sewers and septic tanks in the past five years. There was no report of people dying while cleaning human excreta and the government was not considering making laws stricter, he added.“The fatal accidents in sewers and septic tanks are due to non-compliance of the prescribed safety measures and standard operating procedure,” he said in his written response. The highest number of people, 119, died in 2019, while the lowest, 19, died in 2020 – though experts attributed the latter number to the three-month lockdown and underreporting of incidents. Manual scavenging is banned in India. The caste-based practice was proscribed in 1993, but activists allege it continues clandestinely and overtly.The government distinguishes between manual scavenging – a caste-based practice of people cleaning human excreta by hand – and the practice of cleaning sewers and septic tanks, though experts point out that the latter is a mere extension of the now-banned practice.In response to another question by Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) member Jagdambika Pal, Athawale said implementation of the 2013 law was being monitored at the district, state and national levels. “No such casualties have been reported due to manual scavenging,” the junior minister said. 
08-12-2021||India||4 BJP men held in Kerala for ‘provocative slogans’||Four BJP workers were arrested on Tuesday for allegedly raising provocative slogans during a recent rally organised by the party at Thalassery in this north Kerala district.The BJP workers, while participating in the rally organised last Wednesday to mark the 22nd anniversary of the murder of Yuvamorcha leader K T Jayakrishnan, had allegedly raised inflammatory slogans.Police had registered a case against 20 BJP activists on the basis of a complaint lodged by various organisations, including DYFI, the youth wing of the state’s ruling CPI (M).Police said the four BJP workers were arrested today in connection with the incident.The BJP activists were produced before a court in Thalassery, which sent them to the judicial remand, they said.The BJP’s district leadership has, however, rejected the charges and termed as ‘fabricated,” a video circulated in the social media, showing the party activists raising provocative slogans during the rally. Police said another case has been registered against 250 BJP activists for organising another rally in Thalassery on Friday, violating the prohibitory orders.Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan had criticised the RSS and the BJP for raising the slogans targeting a minority community.“What is their agenda by raising such slogans? They very well know that their agenda will not work in Kerala. But they want to spread such propaganda into the minds of people,” Vijayan had said while addressing a function organised by the CPI(M) on Sunday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/4-bjp-men-held-in-kerala-for-provocative-slogans-101638904274951.html
08-12-2021||India||Popular store chain in Tamil Nadu under-reported ₹1,000 crore sales: I-T||A popular store chain in Tamil Nadu underreported sales worth more than ₹1,000 crore in order to evade tax, the income tax department said in a press note on Tuesday. Though the department did not name the store, earlier I-T officials had told HT that their officials on December 1 were raiding Saravana Selvarathinam which has six stores across Tamil Nadu. The department said their searches and seizures of incriminating evidence revealed that the group “systematically” suppressed sales by “manipulating their books of accounts,” the tax department said in a statement. “The extent of suppression of sales is found to be more than ₹1,000 crore over a period of several years,” the statement read. “It was also found that the assessee had made unaccounted cash purchases of about ₹150 crore in textile division and jewellery division, during the past few years.” More than 100 of the I-T officials had conducted searches at more than 30 premises in the districts of Chennai, Tirunelveli, Madurai and Coimbatore on December 1. The search operations included eight places in Chennai. The retail chain of stores primarily cater to the lower and middle income group. According to their website their showrooms sell textiles, jewellery, vessels, home appliances, water, sweets and a host of other products, at affordable prices. It is a major shopping hub in Chennai with four out of the six stores present in the city such as in T Nagar and Purasawalkam.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/popular-store-chain-in-tamil-nadu-under-reported-1-000-crore-sales-it-101638904273433.html
08-12-2021||India||Hyderabad: 110-yr-old structure to be demolished for transit dorm||A 110-year-old heritage structure in the heart of Hyderabad, which had once served as a choultry for tourists coming from far off places, is all set to be demolished to pave way for a modern multi-storeyed guest house. The heritage structure, Tipu Khan Sarai, popularly known as Nampally Sarai, located right in front of Nampally railway station closer to the state assembly building, is now being converted into a transit dorm, exclusively for women travellers coming to city from various parts of the state. A senior official of the Greater Hyderabad Municipal Corporation (GHMC) familiar with the development said Nampally Sarai, which was completely in a dilapidated condition, would be demolished. “The GHMC, in coordination with the Hyderabad police department, has proposed to construct of a five-storeyed 400-room rest house for women under the Safe City project sanctioned by the Central government,” he said. The plan is expected to be finalized at the GHMC standing council meeting to be held on December 18. Hyderabad was among the eight cities in the country chosen by the Centre in 2018 for taking up various initiatives for the safety and security of women in public places, the other cities being Ahmedabad, Bengaluru, Chennai, Delhi, Kolkata, Lucknow and Mumbai. An amount of ₹282 crore had been sanctioned for the construction of two transit dorms in the city, one at Nampally Sarai and other at Secunderabad, to provide women travellers a safe place to stay when in Hyderabad, the official said. Heritage conservationists, however, are crying foul over the proposed demolition of Nampally Sarai, which was given the heritage structure status in 2012. “It is very unfortunate that such a wonderful structure, is being razed after being neglected for decades by the successive governments. The present Telangana government, too, is showing more interest in demolishing the heritage structures rather than preserving the same,” said Hyderabad heritage activist Sajjad Shahid. Convenor of Indian National Trust for Art and Cultural Heritage (INTACH) Hyderabad chapter Anuradha Reddy said before taking up any such demolition of the heritage structure, the authorities have to consult the INTACH. “But the government has not taken any suggestions from us,” she said. She said there had been no maintenance of the building and nobody cared when a part of the building collapsed due to heavy rains in October 2019. In fact, the building was handed over to the Hyderabad Metro Rail Limited authorities for construction of an overhead station, linking it with Nampally railway station, but later, the proposal was dropped due to protests. Built in a sprawling area of more than an acre of land in 1910 by Nawab Tipu Khan, a high ranking official working for Mir Mahabub Ali Khan, the sixth Nizam, the Nampally Sarai, originally called Sulah Sarai (a peaceful resting place) was used as a rest house for travellers to Hyderabad. “It was providing free stay and sumptuous food for all the guests for three days. It used to cater to people of all walks of life, irrespective of caste or creed. Even those travelling to Haj, Nampalli Sarai used to provide accommodation,” Anuradha Reddy said. In 1948, after the Nizams merged Hyderabad with Indian Union, the Nampally Sarai was used as a state guest house by the Andhra Pradesh government. But subsequently, it was abandoned and since then, has been in a state of neglect, she said. Principal secretary (urban development) Arvind Kumar, who has been showing keen interest in restoring the heritage structures in the city, could not be reached for a comment. 
08-12-2021||India||HC awards ₹5 lakhto BDS aspirant over denial of admission in Tamil Nadu||The Madras High Court has awarded a compensation of ₹5 lakh to a SC woman candidate, who was denied admission in a private dental college in Tiruchengode in Namakkal district in 2014 due to the inaction on the part of the authorities concerned.Justice S M Subramaniam held the then secretaries of the Tamil Nadu Health department, the Selection Committee and the KSR Dental College responsible for the denial of admission in BDS course to A Jayaranjani and directed them to pay the compensation within four weeks.Proportioning the compensation amount, the judge said the secretaries of health and the selection panel should jointly pay ₹ 3 lakh and the college ₹2 lakh to the petitioner.The judge was allowing a writ petition from the girl recently.According to the petitioner, she belongs to the Scheduled Caste community and her father passed away in 2011 and her mother, a widow, is supporting the family. She had secured 1,063 marks in the higher secondary public examination conducted in March 2014 and applied for MBBS/BDS course. She was selected and offered admission in BDS and allotted to the KSR Dental College in Tiruchengodu. The order of allotment was issued by the Selection Committee at 4 PM on September 30, 2014. On account of the late issuance of admission card, the petitioner was unable to reach the college the same, which happened to be the last date for admission.However, the next morning she, along with her grandfather, reported to the institution but instead of verifying the certificates and admitting her in the course, the college Administrative Officer refused admission. The petitioner showed the allotment order issued by the Selection Committee and in spite of that, they refused to admit her. Thus, the petitioner is constrained to move the present writ petition for a direction to the college and other authorities to admit her in BDS Course.The judge noted the result of the Selection Committee was communicated to the dental college through fax message. However, the college denied admission to the petitioner on the very next day. In such circumstances, when the college failed to act upon the allotment order issued by the Selection Committee, the selection panel ought to have initiated action against it by making a complaint to the competent authority. However, no such action was taken against the college knowingly and therefore, this Court would be able to form an opinion that all the three respondents -- health secretary, selection committee and the college -- have jointly contributed for the denial of right of admission to the petitioner to undergo BDS course.A perusal of the records reveals the Selection Committee itself has conducted the counselling on the very last day i.e., on September 30 and issued an allotment order at 4 p.m. Thus, the petitioner reported on October 1 at 9 AM. Therefore, the petitioner has not committed any fault or delay in reporting before the college. It was the mistake committed by the Selection Committee in not conducting the counselling in advance or providing information to the college on the same day to admit the petitioner. It ought to have informed the college not to admit any other students on September 30 in view of the fact that an allotment order was issued in favour of the petitioner, the same day.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/hc-awards-5-lakhto-bds-aspirant-over-denial-of-admission-in-tamil-nadu-101638904212783.html
08-12-2021||India||Kerala: 8 Covid samples test negative for Omicron||Eight of the ten samples sent for genome sequencing in Kerala tested negative for the Omicron variant of Covid-19, state health minister Veena George said on Tuesday. The results of the remaining two tests are awaited.“It is a great relief for us. But time is not ripe to lower our guard. We have to ensure Covid-appropriate behaviour. We have to maintain high vigil,” she said. On Tuesday, one more person, who arrived from a European country, tested positive for Covid-19 and was rushed to a hospital in Kozhikode. His sample has been sent for genome sequencing in the state capital, a health ministry official said. Two samples each from Kozhikode, Malappuram, Ernakulam, and one each from Thiruvananthapuram and Pathanamthitta districts tested negative. All samples were tested at the Rajiv Gandhi Centre for Biotechnology in the state capital, George said in a statement. Kerala has been reporting the maximum number of Covid cases in the country, and only behind Maharashtra in Covid-related death rate. Last week, Union health secretary Rajesh Bhushan sent a letter to the state health department, insisting it to increase testing and streamline containment measures.In the last two months, at least 5000 backlog cases of unreported deaths between March 2020 and June 2021 were added to the fatality list. Many public health experts and opposition parties alleged that the government was not transparent with its data, but the latter said technical reasons led to the omission. A total of 17,000 applications are pending in various state departments to covert deaths as Covid deaths, said a senior health official.On Tuesday, the state reported 4,656 cases after 67,437 cases. It also reported 28 deaths, but 106 backlog deaths were added as per the new directive of the Union government, said the state health ministry. Active caseload is 40,072.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/kerala-8-covid-samples-test-negative-for-omicron-101638904154406.html
08-12-2021||India||TRS to boycott ongoing winter session over farm issues||Accusing the central government of being anti-farmer, the Telangana Rashtra Samithi (TRS) said on Tuesday that it will boycott the ongoing winter session of Parliament, after days of protest over low central procurement of food grain in the southern state.Shouting slogans against the Centre and in support of farmers, TRS MPs staged a walkout from both Houses of Parliament on Tuesday. All of them were dressed in black.“This is an anti-farmer government, insensitive to the demands of the farmers,” said Keshav Rao, TRS leader in the Upper House. “Today, piles of grains are rotting on the roads in Telangana for the simple reason that the FCI (Food Corporation of India) is not lifting (buying) the produce.”No elected representative likes to boycott Parliament, but the TRS is being forced to do so by the Centre, he said.“Please be clear that we are against this government. We are an opposition party, not a fence sitter, and we want this BJP-led government to go,” Rao said while interacting with reporters after announcing that the party will boycott the remainder of the winter session.The ruling party in Telangana has nine Lok Sabha MPs and seven Rajya Sabha members. They joined the opposition bloc during the ongoing session and attended its strategy meetings.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/trs-to-boycott-ongoing-winter-session-over-farm-issues-101638904152880.html
08-12-2021||India||Andhra police destroys cannabis worth ₹4,000 crore in special operation||A special drive launched by Andhra Pradesh police in the name of “Operation Parivarthan” on cultivation and smuggling of ganja (cannabis) in forest areas of Visakhapatnam and Vizianagaram bordering Odisha has been yielding good results, officers said. According to Vineet Brijlal, commissioner of the Special Enforcement Bureau (SEB) of the state police, a huge quantity of cannabis, being grown in 6,416.10 acres, was destroyed in a span of 36 days. “The total value of the narcotic substance, as per the present market value, is estimated to be around ₹4,000 crore. This is quite a major achievement,” the official said. The Operation Parivarthan was launched on October 30, after a series of reports of smuggling of ganja from the Visakhapatnam forest areas into the neighbouring Telangana and Chhattisgarh, rocked the state. These areas abutting Odisha had been known for large scale ganja cultivation – according to official estimates, the narcotic weed is cultivated in more than 10,000 acres, spreading across 250 tribal villages. At a high-level meeting held in Visakhapatnam in October to take stock of the situation in cannabis cultivation and smuggling, Director General of Police Gautam Sawang expressed suspicion that the tribals in the forest areas were cultivating ganja had the support of the Maoists. “It has become a main source of revenue for the banned extremist outfit. The Maoists are collecting money from the ganja smugglers to sustain their activity,” Sawang told the reporters after the meeting. Following the meeting, the SEB has launched the Operation Parivarthan. “We carried a series of raids on the villages in the forest areas of Viskahapatnam, where this cannabis is grown and destroyed the crop,” Brijlal said. The police took the help of drone technology and satellite mapping to identify the ganja plantations, apart from the field reports from enforcement and intelligence wings. Special Enforcement Bureau commissioner Vineet Brijlal said the Operation Parivarthan had three main goals: destruction of ganja crops, creating awareness among the tribals on narcotics and crackdown on smugglers and drug peddlers. “Around 300 teams of 50 personnel each apart from security personnel have been deployed. In its drive against smugglers and peddlers, in the last one month, the police and SEB have booked 214 cases and detained 546 people in Narcotics, Drugs and Psychotropic Substances (NDPS) cases. More than 100 vehicles have been seized for being involved in smuggling of drugs,” Brijlal said. The police have also been posting videos of the operation on social media so as to bring awareness among the people. “We shall not stop until every ganja crop is destroyed in the forest region,” the commissioner said. The SEB authorities are also finding ways to provide alternative livelihood for the tribal people hitherto involved in ganja cultivation. “We are persuading them to given up the illegal cultivation and trade by educating them and counselling them periodically. It has had huge impact on them, as they have voluntarily started destruction of ganja crops,” he said. Activist M Malini of Chaitanya Sravanthi, working in the tribal areas of Viskahapatnam, said the ganja cultivation in these areas was much more than what police were saying. “The cultivation has been going on rampantly in the interior tribal areas, which the police authorities do not venture into. The smugglers lure the tribal youth with money and vehicles and involve them in transportation of ganja. Unfortunately, the youth are also habituated to consumption of narcotics. We are contemplating counselling sessions to change them,” Malini said. 
08-12-2021||India||Madras high court orders Tamil Nadu student’s re-postmortem as kin allege custodial torture||The Madurai bench of the Madras high court on Tuesday ordered a re-postmortem of a college student, L Manikandan, whose family alleged that he died in custody due to torture, according to vernacular news agencies. The court ordered video recording of the procedure after a plea was moved by his mother, stating that her 21-year-old son was tortured in police custody. Police have refuted the allegations and released CCTV footage from the station which shows that he was standing and was questioned by an officer who is also standing but there was no physical interaction. The student from Tamil Nadu’s Ramanathapuram district was stopped on his two-wheeler by police on Saturday during a routine vehicle check along the Paramakudi-Keezhathooval road. He was being questioned at the Keezhathooval police station and he was released a few hours later, police said. He was then found lying unconscious in his home in the wee hours of Sunday and he was rushed to the Mudukulathur General Hospital where he was declared brought dead. The family refused to accept his body on Monday claiming that it was a case of custodial torture and demanded action against the Keezhathooval inspector and other officials. Ramanathapuram district police, in a statement, said they stopped him because his number plate was different and that he didn’t cooperate during the vehicle check so they had to chase him. While questioning they had not found him guilty of any crime and the station informed his mother to pick him up and warned that his activities seemed suspicious. Police said CCTV footage shows Manikandan leaving with his family from the police station at 8pm on Saturday. “Police did not assault him. It was a casual inquiry,” said Ramanathapuram district’s superintendent of police, E Karthik. “Between the place of his arrest and the station it is barely a kilometre. He was taken on his bike in front of the public. What happened in both these places is clear. He died in his home. Between the time after he was let off from the station and the time of his death, six hours had passed. What happened in those six hours is a question we have to ask.” The official said the interim report of the post-mortem that was released on Tuesday says that there have been no internal injuries and no lacerations on his body. The final report will take a week’s time.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/madras-high-court-orders-tamil-nadu-student-s-re-postmortem-as-kin-allege-custodial-torture-101638904032919.html
08-12-2021||India||Sasikala, Rajinikanth meet in Tamil Nadu raises eyebrows||Expelled AIADMK leader VK Sasikala, who identifies herself as the general secretary with an aim to reclaim the party, has met Tamil superstar Rajinikanth at his residence, raising eyebrows in the state’s political circle.A statement from Sasikala’s office, which also released pictures on Tuesday, described it as a courtesy call. “She met Rajinikanth to congratulate him on winning the Dadasaheb Palke award and to enquire about his health,” the statement said. The meeting took place on Monday evening and pictures released show Rajinikanth’s wife Latha also in conversation with Sasikala. Both Sasikala and Rajinikanth are non-starters in Tamil Nadu’s political arena for widely different reasons. They have also been erstwhile neighbours in Chennai’s plush Poes Garden where Rajinikanth resides and late former chief minister J Jayalalithaa lived in her bungalow named ‘Veda Nilayam’, a property which is now mired in legalities. Sasikala, lived here with Jayalalithaa for at least three decades. 70-year-old Rajinkanth received the Dadasaheb Palke award from Vice President M Venkaiah Naidu at the 67th National Film Awards held in New Delhi in October and a week later he underwent a carotoid revascularisation procedure. The actor with a cult following across the globe announced his entry into politics in December 2017 and launched the Rajini Makkal Mandram. But after several fits and starts, in December 2020, Rajinikanth backtracked citing health reasons and the Covid-19 pandemic. Rajinikanth’s role was expected to shake up the state’s politics and he was being courted by the BJP which is trying to gain a foothold in Tamil Nadu where the electorate has only favoured either the DMK or the AIADMK since 1967 when the Congress lost power. But the actor has now gone back to focussing on films with his latest Diwali release ‘Annathe’ which was produced by DMK’s late patriarch leader M Karunanidhi’s grand-nephew Kalanidhi Maran’s Sun Pictures. Meanwhile, Sasikala has been making all efforts for a political comeback but in vain as the AIADMK’s current dual leadership of Edappadi Palaniswami and O Panneerselvam -- both her loyalists turned foes -- expelled her in 2017 and have refused to let her and her family members back in. Following Jayalalithaa’s death in office in December 2016, the AIADMK unanimously declared Sasikala as the interim general secretary and she was set to take over as chief minister when the Supreme Court convicted her to a four-year jail term in Bengaluru in February 2017 in the disproportionate assets case. The party changed vastly while she was imprisoned and since her release in February this year, Sasikala has tried to make a comeback. With a lukewarm response she announced that she was stepping away from politics ahead of the assembly elections held this April. With AIADMK’s loss, Sasikala re-started her political ambitions by speaking to cadre of the AIADMK and the breakaway faction AMMK-led by her nephew TTV Dhinakaran. Sasikala is now driving everywhere with the AIADMK flag on her car bonner, releasing statements on all issues as AIADMK’s general secretary and meeting people. To prevent her from finding a way into the AIADMK, the party last week amended its bylaws to re-elect Panneerselvam and Palaniswami as coordinator and joint coordinators -- the tops posts of the party.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/sasikala-rajinikanth-meet-in-tamil-nadu-raises-eyebrows-101638903973078.html
08-12-2021||India||AAP meets Karnataka governor seeking probe into ‘commission’ scandal||The Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) on Tuesday met Karnataka Governor Thaawarchand Gehlot, seeking a probe into the alleged “commission” scandal that has engulfed the Basavaraj Bommai-led Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) government in the state recently. AAP demanded a judicial probe into the allegations levelled by the Karnataka State Contractors Association against the overt demand for commissions, ranging from 25%-35%, by elected representatives and officials for awarding tenders. D Kempanna, President of Karnataka State Contractors’ Association, in a letter to the Prime Minister written on July 6, 2021, had fully exposed the corruption and illegalities involved in the Tender Works. He had revealed the percentage details of illegalities in Government departments such as the Public Works Department, Minor Irrigation and Water Resources Department, Major Irrigation Department, Panchayat Raj Department, Health Department, BBMP etc. This is a serious allegation, hence it is necessary to conduct a proper investigation on it and punish the guilty,” Prithvi Reddy, the state convener of AAP said. The statements come even as Congress and other political oppositions have used the alleged scandal to corner Bommai who appears to be buried in one crisis after another. Several senior BJP leaders and ministers in the Bommai government are also accused of being involved in the Bitcoin scandal in which a serial hacker (Srikrishna or Sriki) was allegedly used to launder ill-gotten money using the cryptocurrency. The letter by the Contractors association added to the charges against the four-month-old Bommai government and his predecessor, BS Yediyurappa. “Regarding the illegalities, we had made an appeal to the Chief Minister demanding a probe under the leadership of a High Court judge. But the Chief Minister Basavaraj Bommai had ordered the Chief Secretary to the Government to investigate tenders of only the last three months’ period. It’s inappropriate to investigate only three months’ Tenders of their tenure even though the illegalities have been going on for many previous years. Besides that, we also object to the probe under the Chief Secretary to the Government as there are allegations of Government officers and MLAs being involved in the corruption”, Reddy said. He added that corruption in tender works is hampering the development works of the state and it is unfair to the taxpayers. The party also demanded that tenders from the previous decade be scrutinized. The letter, the association stated, was to highlight the “miserable plight” of working contractors in the state as well as remedial measures to be taken. “The contractor’s face (an) unhealthy atmosphere and is discouraged to taking up the works of Roads & Buildings. They are facing an untoward and ugly situation in getting the tender works in various department like Public Works Department, Minor & Major Irrigation, Panchayat Raj Engineering, Bruhat Bengaluru Mahanagara Palike, Health Departments, etc,” In the letter, they allege that the concerned minister “insist and harass’ payment of 5% on the amount put to tender before approval while few elected representatives demand 3% before starting of works. In district and taluks, the association said, there are demands to the extent of 5% on buildings and 10% on road works. “The injustice in tender conditions through e-procurement portal in various local contractor’s by departments is injurious to the registered local contractors,” they add. “Thus, the local registered contractor’s of our state have (to) pay to the extent of 25% to 30% (for elected representatives & others) of the tender amount before starting the works. Such being the position how (will) the contractor undertakes good work,” the letter adds. Bommai had earlier said that though the association had not mentioned any specifics, he had ordered a probe by senior officials to look into any irregularities under the present government as well as works awarded during the Congress rule between 2013-18.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/aap-meets-karnataka-governor-seeking-probe-into-commission-scandal-101638903852965.html
08-12-2021||India||Nine students test Covid positive in Mangaluru, quarantined at hostel||A college in Mangaluru was declared a containment zone on Tuesday after nine students of a college tested positive for Covid-19, forming a fresh cluster in Karnataka, the state health department said in a statement on Tuesday. A total of 173 samples were tested in the college, the statement added.“We have sent samples for genomic sequencing to detect the variant. We have effectively isolated the hostel. Those students who have tested positive for novel coronavirus have been quarantined at the hostel. All those who are infected are aged above 18,” said Rajendra KV, deputy commissioner of Dakshina Kannada district. In Chikkamagaluru district, a total of 457 samples have been tested of both students and staff members at the Jawahar Navodaya School in Seegodu, and the infection tally now stands at 103, including 90students, health officials said. Similar clusters were reported in educational institutions in Dharwad, Bengaluru, Tumakuru, Hassan and Mysuru districts, health department officials said. There has been a consistent uptick of Covid-19 clusters in the southern state, which led the state government to issue guidelines to combat the situation. According to the new norms, any area reporting three Covid-19 cases will be declared a cluster, as opposed to the earlier 10. Furthermore, both doses of Covid-19 vaccine shots have been made mandatory for people to visit apartment complexes. If one has been marked a cluster, no one will be permitted to enter the building, the health department said in a statement. Meanwhile, the government has initiated action to establish a genome sequencing lab in the state. The health secretary Anil Kumar has been instructed to look into the needs of procuring the necessary equipment and experts for the purpose, chief minister Basavaraj Bommai said while speaking to media persons at his residence in Hubli on Tuesday. “All the districts have Covid testing labs. Genome sequencing needs expert systems and modern equipment. The spread of the new variant, Omicron, has necessitated sending test samples in suspect cases for Omicron, to Genome Sequence testing in NCBS. Arrangements would be made to get the test reports quickly,” Bommai said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/nine-students-test-covid-positive-in-mangaluru-quarantined-at-hostel-101638903795712.html
08-12-2021||India||Law varsity students stage protest against offline examinations in Karnataka||A section of the students in the Karnataka State Law University (KSLU) has continued their protests, demanding that the varsity use a combination of internal assessment and previous semester performance to evaluate students and not conduct offline exams on such short notice amid Covid-19 pandemic. Students spent the entire night protesting against the varsity’s decision to hold offline exams. The protests began in the main campus of KSLU in the Hubballi district, about 450 kms from Bengaluru.“First thing is the delay in the promotion. We want a 50:50 mode of evaluation,” Varun Gowda, a student who is part of the protests, told Hindustan Times.He added that the university is trying to hold offline examinations for the previous semesters despite promoting the students and the results of previous semesters have been delayed, and officials continue to cite a shortage of human resources for the same.“A student of the final year will have one or two backlogs, so if they keep postponing exams like this, delaying it for one or two months, it will be a problem for them to enter the Bar council or take up masters,” Gowda said.The protests come even as the threat of Covid pandemic resurfaces in the southern state with the detection of at least two cases of the new variant, Omicron. Students said that the university is hiring senior lawyers and has been misleading the court, whose orders it repeatedly cites to conduct the exams. Hiring senior lawyers for what?Gowda said that there should be at least 21 days prior notice for exams, but there is uncertainty on the dates as there are students who have to travel from other parts and make arrangements.Ishwar Bhat, the vice-chancellor could not be reached for comment despite calls and texts seeking a statement from the university.The Law School of Karnataka State Law University was established as a constituent college through a statute in 2009.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/law-varsity-students-stage-protest-against-offline-examinations-in-karnataka-101638903794265.html
08-12-2021||India||Leaders free to pick alliance in MLC polls: JD (S) leader Kumaraswamy||A day after saying that the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) and the Congress are both enemies of the party, Janata Dal (Secular) or JD (S) supremo HD Kumaraswamy on Tuesday said that the local leaders were given the freedom to back either of the national parties in the upcoming MLC polls, even though there was no formal alliance at the party level.Kumaraswamy’s JD(S) is contesting just seven out of the 25 seats in the MLC polls on December 10.The former chief minister said that in the remaining 18 constituencies where the JD(S) has not fielded any candidates, the local leaders can choose to side with whoever they think would benefit the regional outfit in the long run.“Our aim is 2023 (assembly elections), and to strengthen our party I have given instructions to our local leaders the freedom to make their own decisions,” he said.The non-committal approach by the JD(S) helps the party steer clear of being associated with either of the two national parties, keeping the option to play the possible “kingmaker” open in case of another fractured verdict in 2023.The political tact of Kumaraswamy would also allow both the BJP and Congress to approach the local JD(S)leaders in several districts even though the party appears not to be in any formal alliance with either. The former chief minister and senior BJP leader BS Yediyurappa has maintained that he has sought support from the JD(S) for the MLC polls.“We have to see what decision JD(S) takes, but they are likely to give us support,” Yediyurappa said on Tuesday, counting on the backing of the regional outfit to help keep the upper house of the state legislature under its control.The JD(S) is the only major political party in Karnataka that has allied with both the BJP and the Congress at the state level.JD(S) and the BJP consider Congress as the common enemy. The JD(S) has received the backing of BJP in the old Mysuru region in past elections while the reverse has been seen in the northern districts where the regional outfit has used its votes to help the saffron party. (This para needs attribution and facts when JDS got support and since when do they consider Congress the enemy)“This is not a question of Congress winning or the BJP. Wherever we (JD(S))are not contesting, our leaders have to cast their ballot and not casting it is wrong under democracy. So whichever side they vote for, it should not be detrimental to us,” Kumaraswamy said.The Congress has chided the JD(S) for its decision calling it an understanding between the regional outfit and the BJP.“What does that statement mean that he (Kumaraswamy) has told local leaders? Does it mean they will come with us? They have decided to go with the BJP. They are only saying it indirectly,” Siddaramaiah, senior Congress leader and the former chief minister said in Mandya on Tuesday.State Congress president DK Shivakumar on Tuesday said that Yediyurappa seeking out support shows that the BJP is weak.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/leaders-free-to-pick-alliance-in-mlc-polls-jd-s-leader-kumaraswamy-101638903792986.html
08-12-2021||India||Rahul seeks compensation, jobs for kin of farmers who died during agitation||Congress leader Rahul Gandhi on Tuesday demanded compensation and employment for the kin of farmers who died during the course of their year-long agitation against the now-repealed three agricultural laws. He also moved an adjournment motion in the Lok Sabha on the issue.His demand came on the same day the government and farm groups seemed to be nearing a deal to end year-long protests. The government has indicated that the governments of Haryana and Uttar Pradesh are amenable to paying compensation to the kin of farmers who died during the protest. Punjab already provides compensation.Gandhi, the Lok Sabha MP from Wayanad in Kerala, presented before the House a list of 400 farmers from Punjab and 70 from neighbouring Haryana, who, he claimed, died during the protests on various farm issues.“The entire country knows that nearly 700 farmers lost their lives during the farm protests. The prime minister apologised to farmers, and he accepted he committed a mistake,” Gandhi told the House.The former Congress presidento referred to Union agriculture minister Narendra Singh Tomar’s written reply in Parliament on November 30 that the central government had no record of farmers who died during the protests and therefore there was no question of compensation.“On November 30, the agriculture minister was asked how many farmers were martyred during the protests and the agriculture minister said he had no data on this. We found out that the Punjab government has given ₹5 lakh compensation each to (kin of) about 400 farmers and jobs to (kin of) 152 farmers,” he said.“I have the list which I am laying in the House. We have another list of 70 farmers who are from Haryana, I am laying this list too in the House,” the Congress leader said.In a question to the agriculture minister, Gandhi also sought to know whether the government had assessed the impact of Covid-19 pandemic on agriculture. The minister, in a written reply, said that during the lockdown, the farm sector functioned smoothly as it was exempted from any restrictions.Gandhi also asked whether average debt of agricultural households had increased during the pandemic.In his reply, the agriculture minister said during the first wave of the Covid-19 pandemic, the Union government extended the date of renewal of short-term farm loans that had become due between March and August 2020 as a relief measure. A similar extension was made in 2021 during the second wave, the agriculture minister stated.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/rahul-gandhi-seeks-compensation-jobs-for-kin-of-farmers-who-died-during-year-long-protests-101638903734269.html
08-12-2021||India||December first week logs 27.45% rise in Covid cases across Karnataka||Karnataka has witnessed a rise of 27.45% in the seven-day moving average of new Covid-19 cases in the first week of December, according to the state government data. The data released by the department of health and family welfare shows that in the first week of November, the moving average of daily cases was 231, which rose to 390 in the first week of December. A moving average takes the number of Covid-19 cases in seven days and takes the average of those days. “After falling for six straight months, Covid numbers are seeing an uptick over the last two weeks in Karnataka. Caution is the word! Mask up Karnataka,” tweeted Karnataka tweeted Sudhakar on Monday night. The Covid-19 bulletins released by the Karnataka government shows that on the last Monday of November (November 29), Karnataka had 6,878 active cases. Seven days later, on December 6, the number increased to 7,067 as of Monday (December 6). The increase in cases came after Karnataka reported two cases of Omicron variant of the virus in the last week of November. However, senior health department officials attributed the increase to the number of clusters reported in Karnataka in the past week. “The number of clusters reported in Karnataka , especially in educational institutes, are a matter of concern. We are following the situation closely and all DCs (Deputy Commissioners). These clusters have been reported only in residential schools,” said Karnataka education minister BC Nagesh. All these cases were of Delta variant of the virus, according to the data.The new cases detected in districts other than Bengaluru Urban are also on the rise. While 77 per cent of the active caseload on November 29 was from Bengaluru Urban, the same dipped to 73 per cent on Monday. The highest number of cluster cases have been reported from Bengaluru Urban, BBMP?, Hassan, Dharwad, Mysuru, and Tumakuru districts. A total of 40 clusters were reported in the last month, accounting for over 800 cases. According to data from the health department, over 20,500 samples from the 40 clusters reported till December 5 have been tested. The Union health ministry has identified Tumakuru, Dharwad, Bengaluru Urban, and Mysuru as districts of concern and directed the state to contain the spread on a war-footing. As per a letter sent by health secretary Rajesh Bhushan, Tumakuru district witnessed a rise of 152.17% in the number of new cases between November 19 and December 2, followed by Dharwad (20.92%), Bengaluru Urban (19.16%), and Mysuru (16.49%). Further, the Centre has advised the state to implement the “ongoing strategy of test-track-treat-vaccinate-Covid appropriate behaviour to keep the situation under control.” According to data collated from the airport by the government, as many as 4,225 passengers (including children) landed at the airport from December 1-6 in 17 flights from at-risk countries. While 4,021 of them were subjected to Rapid Antigen Testing (RAT), 309 samples were collected for RT-PCR testing, with all results returning negative. 9,889 passengers arrived from other countries during the same timeframe after which tests on arrival indicated all were negative for Covid-19. Earlier, as per guidelines issued by the Centre, the Karnataka government had made testing on arrival mandatory for all passengers arriving from at-risk countries, with 2 per cent random testing stipulated for those arriving from other countries. Meanwhile, the 46-year-old Bengaluru doctor, who was among the first cases of Omicron in India, has again tested positive for Covid, a senior official said on Tuesday. The RT-PCR test was conducted seven days after his last test, as per the mandate issued by the health ministry. According to officials, he will be kept under observation for another seven days and be discharged only after a negative RT-PCR test. 
08-12-2021||India||120 Oppn MPs to join sit-in against suspension of 12 Rajya Sabha members||At least 120 Opposition MPs of the Rajya Sabha will join a sit-in protest in the Parliament complex on Wednesday, ramping up the agitation against the suspension of 12 members of the Upper House amid hectic consultations over a fresh offensive against the ruling dispensation, according to people aware of the matter.At least 120 Opposition MPs of the Rajya Sabha will join a sit-in protest in the Parliament complex on Wednesday, ramping up the agitation against the suspension of 12 members of the Upper House amid hectic consultations over a fresh offensive against the ruling dispensation, according to people aware of the matter.On Thursday, several Opposition MPs from the Lok Sabha are also likely to join the dharna in front of the Mahatma Gandhi statue at the Parliament complex in solidarity with their Rajya Sabha counterparts, the people cited above said.The 12 MPs — six from the Congress, two each from the Trinamool Congress (TMC) and Shiv Sena, and one each from the Communist Party of India and Communist Party of India (Marxist) — are holding an indefinite sit-in. On Monday last week, they were suspended for the remainder of the winter session after the House passed a motion moved by the government seeking their suspension under Rule 256 for their “unruly and violent behaviour” in the Upper House during the monsoon session.A senior Congress strategist met CPI(M) general secretary Sitaram Yechury on Tuesday to discuss the Opposition’s future course of action in the Rajya Sabha, according a person aware of the matter.The Trinamool Congress’s national general secretary and West Bengal chief minister Mamata Banerjee’s nephew Abhishek Banerjee held a meeting with his party MPs and told them: “Our two MPs have been suspended but all of us are affected. Every day till December 23, all our MPs will join them at the protest site.”According to a leader of the party, when a senior TMC MP told Banerjee he didn’t get a chance to speak in the House, he said “there is no grey area in protest and the party’s interest has to come first”. Banerjee was clear that the protest must continue, the leader added.Amid consultations within the Opposition on the protest, Congress president Sonia Gandhi will address the Congress parliamentary party meeting in the Central Hall of Parliament at 9.30am on Wednesday. It will be attended by Rahul Gandhi and other members of the party.In the Upper House, parliamentary affairs minister Pralhad Joshi said the government doesn’t want to pass bills amid a din. “I still request through you, let them be ready to apologise. The whole country has seen it. They were dancing on the table, they went to hit the marshal and tried to throw away the TV screen,” he said, referring to the incidents of the last day of the monsoon session earlier this year.On the last day of the monsoon session on August 11, some opposition MPs climbed on Rajya Sabha officials’ table, raised slogans, and threw files when the House began a discussion on the farmers’ protest against three laws that now stand scrapped. Opposition parties termed the suspension as “undemocratic”.Earlier in the day, Leader of the Opposition Mallikarjun Kharge reiterated that the government was “responsible for the obstructions” in the Upper House, arguing that the suspension of the 12 Opposition MPs was “wrong”.“We tried a lot to facilitate the functioning of the House, we met Leader of the House and Chairman repeatedly to put forth our views that MPs can be suspended only as per Rule 256,” Kharge said, ruling out any apology as the government “ignored the rules and wrongfully brought the events of the monsoon session to winter session” to suspend 12 MPs.The Leader of Opposition added that “we also wanted to raise a number of things such as inflation, the issue of Nagaland”. “So, it seems that the government does not intend to run the House, they do not intend to discuss. And those who are vocal people, if we run the House by keeping them out, then our people will raise questions.”The Opposition alleged that the government had the Rajya Sabha adjourned early in the day to stop Nagaland MP KG Kenye from speaking on the killing of 14 civilians by the Indian Army in the state.Abhishek Banerjee and Yechury also said an apology was “out of the question”. Apparently referring to the Congress, TMC leader Derek O’Brien said: “We would have full coordination with all parties. But we are not going to play second fiddle to anyone.”
08-12-2021||India||Act against encroachments: SC to Railways||The Supreme Court on Tuesday came down heavily on the Railways for not acting against encroachers and directed the Centre to chalk out a solution to deal with the problem by next week.The court was hearing separate pleas on issues related to removal of encroachment from Railways land in Gujarat and Haryana, when it observed that public projects were getting delayed in such matters.“When the Railways Act was enacted, it was unthinkable that railway land could be encroached. But of late, it appears that your (Railway) estate officers are not taking care. You have a Railway Protection Force (RPF)... close it down as they cannot protect your land. Their functioning itself is under question. If this is happening across the country, there is no need to have a Railway Protection Force,” a bench of justice AM Khanwilkar, Dinesh Maheshwari and CT Ravikumar said.Encroachment on railway land is a crime under Section 147 of the Railways Act.Noting that encroachment delayed public projects, the bench said that authorities may have “political compulsions” but it is the taxpayers’ money which goes “down the drain”.“You may have political compulsions but it is taxpayers’ money that goes down the drain. You take a position that no unauthorized presence on your land will be tolerated. We cannot have a situation where public projects are kept on hold for over five years and the effect is that due to delay, cost of the project gets escalated. Ultimately it affects the state exchequer,” the court said.The bench also said that the municipal corporation, the states as well as the Railways are “not seeing eye to eye” in these cases and since these are “matters of public interest, the project has to go forward”.Appearing for the Centre, solicitor general Tushar Mehta assured to take up the matter with the railway minister. “It is not in anybody’s interest that public projects be delayed. We will sort it out and come with a joint solution,” he told the court.“Whatever is necessary, you do on war footing. In 15 days the project must begin,” the bench said, as it gave the Centre time till December 14 to decide on the solution.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/act-against-encroachments-sc-to-railways-101638903374471.html
08-12-2021||India||'Regularly attend House proceedings or face consequences': Modi cautions BJP MPs||Parliamentarians of the Bharatiya Janata Party must regularly attend House proceedings or face the consequences, Prime Minister Narendra Modi cautioned colleagues at the parliamentary party meeting on Tuesday.“Apne aap mein parivartan laiye, warna parivartan apne aap aajata hai (change yourselves, or changes will happen on their own),” the Prime Minister said, according to several lawmakers present at the meeting.Modi’s statement is seen as a warning to the party’s MPs that their performance in Parliament would be a determinant while deciding tickets ahead of the next election.The Prime Minister is learnt to have expressed concern over the attendance of lawmakers and underscored that people had elected MPs to represent them in Parliament and, therefore, their first priority should be attending the proceedings.“The Prime Minister reiterated the necessity to adhere to party discipline – be punctual, come prepared and not speak out of turn,” a party functionary said on condition of anonymity.The government has been facing a combative opposition in both Houses of Parliament. Opposition parties have closed ranks over the suspension of 12 Rajya Sabha MPs for the duration of the winter session and have sought to pin the treasury benches on a host of issues, including price rise and the killing of civilians in Nagaland by security forces.This is not the first time that Modi has pulled up his party colleagues for being absent during the proceedings in Parliament. It was also underlined during the monsoon session in August.He had then asked Prahlad Joshi, the parliamentary affairs minister, to prepare a list of absent MPs as the party in Rajya Sabha faced embarrassment when it had to struggle to ensure their presence during the passage of the Tribunal Amendment Bill.Modi also instructed the MPs to focus on health and wellness at the Tuesday meeting, urging them to co-opt people to join the Poshan Abhiyan, a campaign against malnutrition, and organise sports events and competitions to drive home the message of fitness.He urged party MPs to organise programmes to felicitate the Padma award winners. “The Prime Minister instructed the MPs to hold Sansad Khel Sparda and Sansad Tandurust Bal Sparda (sports competitions) to encourage the youth to take up sports,” Joshi said.BJP MPs must meet the presidents of all mandals and districts in their respective constituencies to keep “live contact” with party workers, the party’s national president J P Nadda said. Supporting his suggestion, Modi is learnt to have said that he will meet the zila and mandal presidents when he visits his parliamentary constituency Varanasi on December 14.Nadda also said that the party should host farmers’ conferences (kisan sammelan) and felicitate those who have improvied farming practices.The meeting, in Ambedkar International Centre outside the precincts of Parliament for the first time, was attended by senior ministers, including home minister Amit Shah, commerce minister Piyush Goyal, foreign minister S Jaishankar and parliamentary affairs minister Pralhad Joshi.
08-12-2021||India||New controversy raises old legal questions around AFSPA||The killings of 14 civilians by defence forces in a botched operation in Nagaland’s Mon district on Saturday and Sunday has drawn focus, once again, on the Armed Forces (Special Powers) Act (AFSPA) and the immunity from criminal prosecution that the special law entails. The incident has renewed an old demand for the repeal of the law, and the sweeping powers and protections it offers.It is pertinent, therefore, to get a conspectus of the legislation.Origin, ambit and special features of AFSPA:On August 15, 1942, the British administration enacted the Armed Forces (Special Powers) Ordinance to suppress the Quit India Movement launched by Mahatama Gandhi a week earlier. The ordinance enlisted the armed forces “in the aid of civil power” to put down the Indian independence movement during the Second World War.Modelled on the colonial-era ordinance, AFSPA was promulgated in Parliament in September 1958. Simply put, the legislation allows armed forces to control and maintain public order in areas designated as “disturbed”.Also Read| ‘I am broken inside’: Grief sweeps Nagaland village of 14 killedAccording to Section 3 of the Act, an entire state or a part of the state area can be designated as “disturbed” by the governor of the state, the administrator of a Union Territory, or the Centre if they are of the opinion that the “whole or any part of such state or Union territory” is in “such a disturbed or dangerous condition that the use of armed forces in aid of the civil power is necessary”.Section 4 of AFSPA accords special powers to armed forces, authorising security personnel to open fire, arrest people without warrants, enter and search without warrant -- all while having immunity from being prosecuted. Section 6 of the Act lays down that no prosecution, suit or other legal proceeding shall be instituted against any person in respect of anything done or purported to be done in exercise of the powers conferred by AFSPA in absence of a previous sanction of the central government.“Armed forces” has been defined under AFSPA as military forces and the air forces operating as land forces, and includes all other central armed forces deployed in a state or UT.Currently, the Act is in force in Nagaland, Assam, Manipur – excluding Imphal Municipal Council Area – Changlang, Longding and Tirap districts of Arunachal Pradesh, and areas falling under the jurisdiction of eight police stations of districts in Arunachal Pradesh bordering Assam. A similar Act – Armed Forces (Jammu & Kashmir) Special Powers Act, 1990 – is operational in the union territory of Jammu & Kashmir.Parliamentary history of AFSPA:AFSPA was first enforced in the North-East as a measure to battle the Naga insurgency in the then undivided state of Assam.The bill was passed in the Lok Sabha without any amendment but there was severe criticism of the proposed law by several leaders. MP Surendra Mohanty of Ganatantra Parishad raised the point that the bill invoked a state of emergency while suspending the constitutional rights to approach courts or file suits. “We want a free India. But we do not want a free India with barbed wires and concentration camps, where havaldars can shoot at sight any man. If that is the concept of free India, I think I may as well be a traitor,” he told the House.A Krishnaswami also made the argument that AFSPA was outside the powers granted in the Constitution since it was declaring a state of emergency without following the Constitutional provisions for such a declaration. He argued that this Bill would take away the State’s power by bringing in the military.A discussion on the proposed law ensued in Rajya Sabha in the last week of August 1958. Then Union home minister Govind Ballabh Pant called the proposed law “a very simple measure” to control the “misguided Nagas indulging in mischievous activities”. Pant pointed out that the law was needed since it was not feasible to depute civil magistrates to accompany the armed forces over such a vast area wherever there may be trouble, because it happens unexpectedly.Also Read| Nagaland cabinet to recommend immediate repeal of AFSPA after 14 die in botched opPrime Minister Jawaharlal Nehru defended the proposed law, stressing: “No infirm government can function anywhere. Where there is violence, it has to be dealt with by government, whatever the reason for it may be; because otherwise you drift; the country drifts into, if I may use the word, Fascist methods, all groups, private groups and others, indulging in violence and trying to coerce the governmental authority by organised violence.”The Bill was passed, and AFSPA has not been lifted in Nagaland since. After the North-East states were reorganized in 1971, the creation of new states (some of them were Union territories originally) such as Manipur, Tripura, Meghalaya, Mizoram and Arunachal Pradesh paved the way for the AFSPA Act to be amended, so that it could be applied to each of them.AFSPA was imposed in Punjab and Chandigarh in 1983 due to secessionist movements in the state and lasted for 14 years. The similar legislation in Jammu & Kashmir was enacted in 1992.Criticism and legal appraisal of the Act:The controversy surrounding the Act has to do with the powers it grants armed forces. The law empowers security personnel, down to non-commissioned officers, to use force and shoot “even to the causing of death” if they are convinced that it is necessary to do so for the “maintenance of public order”. It also grants soldiers executive powers to enter premises, search, and arrest without a warrant.The exercise of these extraordinary powers by armed forces has often led to allegations of fake encounters and other human rights violations by security forces in disturbed areas while questioning the indefinite imposition of AFSPA in certain states, such as Nagaland and J&K. Various human rights activists and groups have said that the AFSPA has led to human rights violations, while allowing members of the armed forces to operate with impunity.Manipur’s Irom Sharmila has been one if its staunchest opponents, going on a hunger strike in November 2000 and continuing her vigil till August 2016. Her trigger was an incident in the town of Malom in Manipur, where 10 civilians waiting at a bus stop were allegedly gunned down by the 8th Assam Rifles.In 2004, following the alleged custodial death of a woman arrested by the armed Forces and ensuing protests, the Union government constituted a committee headed by a former Supreme Court judge, justice BP Jeevan Reddy, to review AFSPA. In 2005, this committee recommended that AFSPA be repealed, highlighting that the Act has become “a symbol of hate and an instrument of discrimination and high handedness”.The committee said: “It is highly desirable and advisable to repeal this Act altogether, without, of course, losing sight of the overwhelming desire of an overwhelming majority of the region that the Army should remain (though the Act should go). For that purpose, an appropriate legal mechanism has to be devised.” It suggested the amendment of the Unlawful Activities (Prevention) Act by inserting new provisions in respect of north-eastern states so as to provide for specific powers of the armed forces in the region. The report, clearly, has not been accepted by the Centre.In 2007, the fifth report on public order of the Second Administrative Reforms Commission also recommended that AFPSA be repealed. “Repeal of AFPSA would remove the feeling of discrimination and alienation among the people of the North-Eastern states,” stated the Commission, adding it would be more appropriate to recommend insertion of appropriate provisions in the UAPA.In 2013, the justice JS Verma Committee, constituted to recommend amendments to Criminal Law, also recommended that the continuance of AFSPA in conflict areas needs to be revisited in order to extend legal protection to women in conflict areas. The committee emphasised that women in conflict areas were entitled to all the security and dignity that was afforded to citizens in any other part of the country. It recommended bringing sexual violence against women by members of the armed forces or uniformed personnel under the purview of ordinary criminal law; taking special care to ensure the safety of women who are complainants and witnesses in cases of sexual assault by the armed forced; and setting up special commissioners for women’s safety and security in all areas of conflict in the country.Constitutional courts and AFSPA:Validity of AFSPA as well as some specific provisions of the legislation have come under the judicial scrutiny of the Supreme Court over concerns of human rights violations and the federal structure.The Delhi high court, in Inderjit Barua Vs State of Assam (1983) held that the governor is empowered to declare any area of the state as “disturbed area” and that this power could not be termed arbitrary on ground of absence of legislative guidelines. The high court also affirmed the authority given to non-commissioned officers of the armed forces to open fire.In Luithukia Vs Rishang Keishing, (1988), Gauhati high court had the occasion to examine the scope of Section 4 of AFSPA in authorising the armed forces with powers to shoot and to make arrests without a warrant. The armed forces must act in cooperation with the district administration and not as an independent body, ruled the HC as it also laid down guidelines that operations conducted by the armed forces should be in tandem with the local administration.The Gauhati HC, in Horendi Gogoi Vs Union of India, (1991), held that in case of arrest of any person, army authority is duty bound to hand them over to the officer-in-charge of the nearest police station with least possible delay.In 1998, a Constitution bench of the Supreme Court upheld the constitutional validity of AFSPA in Naga People’s Movement of Human Rights Vs Union of India. The five-judge bench maintained that Parliament had the authority to pass AFSPA, adding the Union government was obligated under Article 355 of the Constitution to defend each state against external aggression and internal strife, as well as to ensure that each state’s government operates in compliance with the Constitution’s provisions.At the same time, the Constitution bench held that a grave situation of law and order must occur for a region to be declared a “disturbed area” and that no arbitrary and unguided power has been conferred in the matter of declaring a region as a disturbed area. The top court further ruled that Section 3 of AFSPA cannot be construed as conferring a power to issue a declaration without any time limit, adding there should be periodic review of the declaration before the expiry of six months. Also Read| Nagaland killings: Home minister Amit Shah expresses regretThe Constitution bench also ordered that the Army Headquarters’ instructions in the form of “Dos and Don’ts” be followed by members of the armed forces when deployed in “disturbed areas”. These instructions, among other things, stated that a person should not be kept in custody for a period longer than required and should be handed over to the nearest police station; no force should be used on a person arrested, except in case of an attempted escape; and that third-degree methods should not be used to extract confessions.Deciding to order a probe into 1,528 cases of alleged fake encounters in Manipur in the last 20 years, the Supreme Court in 2016 said that indefinite deployment of armed forces in the name of restoring normalcy under AFSPA “would mock at our democratic process”, apart from symbolising a failure of the civil administration and the armed forces.The court further held that “ordinarily our armed forces should not be used against our countrymen and women” and that “every person carrying a weapon in a disturbed area cannot be labelled a militant or terrorist or insurgent” and be killed without any inquiry.Critical of the continuation of AFSPA in Manipur even after almost 60 years of its imposition, the court said that “normalcy not being restored cannot be a fig leaf for prolonged, permanent or indefinite deployment of the armed forces…as it would mock at our democratic process.”The top court ordered probe by a special investigation team of the Central Bureau of Investigation as it acted on a report by a court-mandated commission headed by former judge N Santosh Hegde, which examined six cases involving seven killings, and held that all these encounters were fake. While the last status report was submitted by CBI in 2018, the matter is still pending before the Supreme Court, and has not been effectively heard on the status of investigation in the last three years.
08-12-2021||India||No Opposition front without Congress, says Shiv Sena’s Sanjay Raut||There cannot be an opposition front without the Congress party, Shiv Sena leader Sanjay Raut said on Tuesday after meeting Congress leader Rahul Gandhi in New Delhi on Tuesday. The two parties, and the Nationalist Congress Party are part of Maharashtra’s ruling MVA coalition.“We had a long conversation about political developments,” Raut said at a media briefing. “Discussions about keeping the opposition together also happened in the meeting. We (Shiv Sena) have always maintained that if there is an opposition front, then it is not possible without Congress.”A joint meeting of opposition parties should be convened to discuss the way forward for the 2024 general election, Raut said. “I have told Rahul ji to take a lead in this, and work openly towards it (bringing the opposition together),” he said.The meeting at 12 Tughlak Lane lasted about 50 minutes. The two leaders discussed upcoming assembly elections in five states, including Uttar Pradesh and Goa, where the Shiv Sena intends to field candidates. Raut is expected to meet Priyanka Gandhi Vadra on Wednesday in New Delhi. Gandhi Vadra is Congress general secretary in charge of Uttar Pradesh.Multiple opposition fronts will not be an alternative for the people in 2024, Raut said. Therefore, a front with Congress will ensure unity. “There cannot be unity without Congress,” he said.The statement from Shiv Sena Rajya Sabha MP came a few days after West Bengal chief minister and Trinamool Congress chief Mamata Banerjee met Shiv Sena leader Aaditya Thackeray and Raut in Mumbai to rally regional parties to form an opposition front. Banerjee, in her interaction with media last week, had said: “Where is UPA?” She was referring to the United Progressive Alliance led by the Congress.The Shiv Sena leader added that the issue about leadership of the opposition front can be discussed after the parties come together. “Who leads the front is something all parties have to sit and decide together.”On whether the Shiv Sena is attempting to broker peace between the Congress and Banerjee, he remarked: “We have NCP (Nationalist Congress Party) leader Sharad Pawar Sahab for that. He is a tall leader.”Rahul Gandhi could visit Mumbai soon , Raut said. A meeting between the Sena chief and Maharashtra chief minister Uddhav Thackeray and Gandhi may happen during the visit if Thackeray, who is recovering from a spine surgery, has recovered by then.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/no-opposition-front-without-congress-says-shiv-sena-s-sanjay-raut-101638903132790.html
08-12-2021||India||Nagaland resolution seeks repeal of AFSPA||The Nagaland government on Tuesday decided to write to the Union government to repeal a controversial law that gives security forces sweeping powers in disturbed areas, amid outrage in the region over the killing of 14 civilians in a botched Indian Army operation.“We have decided to write to the government of India for the immediate repeal of the Armed Forces (Special Powers) Act (AFSPA), 1958, from the state,” Neiba Kronu, spokesperson of the state government, said after a state cabinet meeting.The state cabinet also decided to call off the remaining three days of the annual Hornbill Festival – a 10-day cultural event in which different Naga tribes showcase their traditions – in solidarity with the Konyak community to which a majority of the victims belonged.The decision came a day after chief minister Neiphiu Rio demanded the repeal of AFSPA from the state on Monday, calling it “draconian”, and stressing that the people of Nagaland had never accepted it. Its implementation had brought a bad name to the country across the world, Rio had said.State higher education minister Temjen Imna Along said the state government will appeal to the Union home ministry to remove AFSPA from Nagaland.“The state government can only appeal, and it is up to the central government to understand the feelings of the people of the state today,” the minister said. “As elected representatives of the people, irrespective of party lines, we have chosen to appeal to the government of India through the right process to bring reassurance to the people of the state that AFSPA should be repealed in our state.”Along, who is also Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP)’s unit president in Nagaland, said that from a party perspective, the state BJP will put up the views and sentiments of the Naga people on AFSPA to its central leadership immediately.An elite military commando unit shot dead six coal miners returning home in Mon district on Saturday, believing they were targeting insurgents.Another eight people were killed by troops when they were confronted by a furious crowd in two separate incidents, with a soldier also being killed and army vehicles set ablaze.On Monday, Union home minister Amit Shah expressed regret over the killings and informed Parliament that a special investigation team (SIT) to probe the “unfortunate incident” will complete investigation within a month. He also said the firing was a consequence of “mistaken identity”.Tension continues to run high in the northeastern state where AFSPA was first clamped in 1958 at the height of the Naga insurgency that demanded a separate homeland. That demand has since been pared down by rebels, who are also in peace talks with the government, though a final agreement is yet to be reached.The Isak-Muivah-led National Socialist Council of Nagalim, the largest Naga rebel group that signed a ceasefire pact in 1997, and a “framework agreement” in 2015, has condemned the killings.Asked if the recent incident in Mon could impact the ongoing peace talks, government spokesperson Kronu said that the core committee on the Naga Political Issue (NPI) is scheduled to meet on December 9 to discuss the matter.Assam chief minister Himanta Biswa Sarma, who is convener of the North-East Democratic Alliance (NEDA) – a group of parties allied with the National Democratic Alliance in the Centre – and has had parleys with the Naga peace process negotiating parties along with Rio, is expected to attend the meeting in Kohima on Thursday.AFSPA, which grants special powers to the forces to maintain public order in “disturbed areas”, has been a contentious issue in the state for decades, with civil society members saying it gives security personnel impunity to carry out excesses, and defence forces saying that it helps them maintain order in restive areas. On Monday, Rio was joined by his Meghalaya counterpart Conrad Sangma in demanding the withdrawal of the law in the northeast.Kronu said the cabinet was briefed about action taken by the government after the killing of the 14 civilians, and the investigation by a SIT headed by the inspector general of police. The cabinet was also informed about the ground report submitted by the director general of police, which said army personnel tried to take away bodies of six killed people who were mistaken to be insurgents.The cabinet asked the SIT to complete its investigation and submit a report within a month, Kronu said.Among the injured in the December 4 incident, two were still under critical care in a hospital at Dibrugarh, six were undergoing treatment in Dimapur, and 22 were discharged from hospital, the government spokesperson said.“Situation (in Mon district) is now under control,” Kronu said. “The state cabinet has decided that all activities of the ongoing Hornbill Festival should be ceased in view of the demand of the mourning announced for the deceased in the firing incidents in Mon district and the demand of various civil society not to hold the activities.”The Hornbill Festival began on December 1. Six tribes from Eastern Nagaland – Konyak, Khiamniungan, Phom, Sangtam, Yimkhiung and Chang – withdrew from festival on Sunday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/nagaland-resolution-seeks-repeal-of-afspa-101638903080062.html
08-12-2021||India||Farm unions discuss key proposals from Centre, likely to call off stir||The Union government and the Samyukt Kisan Morcha (SKM), a platform of farm unions, appeared to be moving closer to an agreement to end a yearlong protest by cultivators, as the farm body on Tuesday discussed a set of draft proposals sent by the Centre but deferred a decision on calling off the agitation to Wednesday.In the letter sent through the Union home ministry, the Centre said it was willing to accept the major demands of the unions provided the farmers end their protests and return home. Though SKM responded that it would not accept any conditions from the Centre to end its agitation, the two sides appeared close to clinching a deal.Farm leaders who took part in the meeting on Tuesday said SKM “appreciated” the Centre’s move, but that there were still some sticking points, and discussions will resume on Wednesday.After nearly 14 months of protests on highways by farmers, Prime Minister Narendra Modi on November 19 announced that his government would withdraw three agricultural reform laws farmers say were disastrous for their livelihoods. The laws were repealed by Parliament on November 29.The laws sought to open up agricultural markets to greater corporate participation. Farmers argued the changes would pave the way for the government to stop buying grains at assured prices.Also Read| Farmers protest: SC adjourns plea seeking removal of protesters to Jan 2022Among the key demands of the farm unions is a legislation guaranteeing minimum prices for farm produce. The Centre’s letter proposed a committee on minimum support prices, or MSP, comprising central and state government officials, farmers’ representatives including members of SKM, and agricultural scientists.SKM on December 4 named five members to negotiate with the Centre to resolve pending demands by farmers. They panel consists of farm leaders Ashok Dhawale, Balbir Singh Rajewal, Gurnam Singh Chaduni, Shiv Kumar Kakkaji, and Yudhvir Singh.One of the other principal demands of the agitating farmers is that all cases registered against protesters in various states be withdrawn unconditionally. In its proposal sent to SKM, the Centre said the BJP-ruled governments of Haryana and Uttar Pradesh have agreed that all cases against farmers would be withdrawn as soon as farmers announced an end to their movement.“The draft proposals linked the withdrawal of cases against farmers, which is a major demand by us, to an end to the ongoing protests. The SKM doesn’t agree to this condition. The government should first withdraw all cases,” Inderjit Singh, an SKM leader from Haryana who was part of the meeting, said.SKM leaders, however, added that they welcomed the government’s offer and were hopeful that further negotiations would help bride the chasm.The Centre also said that the governments of Haryana and Uttar Pradesh agreed in principle to compensate the families of farmers who died during the protests -- another major demand of the farmers, who sought monetary compensation for nearly 700 farmers who have died from heat, cold, and exhaustion in the yearlong agitation. The Union government also referred to the Punjab government’s public announcement to compensate the kin of dead farmers.The Centre further said that it would discuss all stakeholders before moving the Electricity Amendment Bill 2020 in Parliament. The government has listed the bill to be taken up in the current session of Parliament. Farmers want the bill withdrawn, as they think it contains provisions that will increase costs of agricultural power supply.The Union government also agreed to end all criminal liability of farmers for burning crop residue contained in a law to curb pollution in the National Capital Region.“While the central government’s proposals seemed to agree to these demands of farmers, there is some lack of clarity. Further discussions are needed. So we will again meet tomorrow,” said Rajewal, a farm leader and one of the members nominated by SKM to join the government panel.Also Read| Rahul seeks compensation, jobs for kin of farmers who died during agitationSKM also said on Tuesday it wanted more information the terms of reference of the committee proposed by the Centre on the issue of MSP. “We don’t know whether the committee’s mandate is to enable a legislation on MSP, which is what we have demanded. We will seek a clarification from the Centre on this,” Inderjit Singh, a farm leader from Haryana, said.On the issue of penalties on farmers burning paddy remnants, a major cause of air pollution in the region, SKM leader Gurnam Singh Charuni said all existing cases must be withdrawn. “The law should be clear that farmers will not face any criminal and civil liabilities for burning parali (paddy stubble),” Charuni said. The Centre’s letter assured the farmers that there would be criminal charges for stubble burning but did not specify its position on penalties.The Modi government’s decision to rescind the contentious farm laws and urgency to resolve pending demands of cultivators come as the BJP prepares to fight upcoming state elections, especially in Uttar Pradesh, Punjab and Uttarakhand. In Punjab and Uttar Pradesh, protesting farmers are an influential voting bloc. In the prosperous sugarcane belt of western UP, farmers had put up a stiff resistance to the now-repealed farm laws, led by Rakesh Tikait of the influential Bharatiya Kisan Union.Hundreds of farmers are still entrenched in at least five protest camps on the borders of the national Capital, choking key highways. The protests have kept police and civil officials on their toes for over 14 months.“Farmers now have organised themselves into a political force and forced the government to repeal the laws. If the issue of MSP is not amicably resolved, there is a potential for renewed agitation and if farmers feel cheated after withdrawing their agitation, it could influence their political preferences in upcoming state elections,” said Sudhir Panwar of University of Lucknow.
08-12-2021||India||One killed as speeding Mercedes hits vehicles in Bengaluru, accused held||Bengaluru One person was killed and two others were injured in Bengaluru after an allegedly speeding Mercedes Benz hit a two-wheeler before crashing into several vehicles as it attempted to flee the spot, police said, adding that the accused driver was arrested.According to joint commissioner of police (traffic) B R Ravikanthe Gowda, as many as seven vehicles were damaged in the incident which took place near Shell petrol pump in Indira Nagar area at around 2.45 pm. “After Suveed (43), who was driving the Mercedes Benz, hit the motorcycle, he made an attempt to escape. As he took a sharp turn, his vehicle collided with other vehicles,” Gowda said. The collision led to a massive traffic in the area, he added. Police said that a Maruti Alto, Maruti Suzuki Dzire, a tempo belonging to a movers and packers company and two auto rickshaws were among the vehicles damaged. The driver of the Maruti Alto, who was identified as Hari Mahant and was a resident of Assam, died on the spot, police said. The injured were identified as biker Anand Kumar (36), driver of the Dzire vehicle Mahesh (27), passengers Vidyashree (22) and Ninganabada Srinivas (22), and auto drivers Najeeb (38) and Krishna (30). All the injured were taken to CMH hospital, police said.Officials at Ulsoor traffic police said a case under sections 279 (rash driving), 337 (causing hurt due to negligence) and 304 (A) (Causing death by negligence) of Indian Penal Code was registered and that the accused driver was taken into custody.“We have conducted a blood test on the suspect and reports are awaited,” an official at the state said, seeking anonymity.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/one-killed-as-speeding-mercedes-hits-vehicles-in-bengaluru-accused-held-101638903013508.html
08-12-2021||India||December 7: What we know about Omicron so far||Global stock markets, including India’s bourses, rallied on Tuesday, as did oil prices and the US dollar, as some signs trickled in of the Omicron variant possibly not being as worrisome as previously thought.These signs suggest the variant may be causing a milder version of the disease, and they originate from data by the National Institute of Communicable Diseases (NICD) in South Africa. A key endorsement of this early trend was made by White House medical adviser Anthony Fauci late on Monday, although he stressed that it was still early days.Reading ground dataAccording to NICD data analysed by the Financial Times newspaper, there are two clear trends that can be read from Omicron hotspot Gauteng province: First, the share of Covid-positive hospital patients requiring intensive care and ventilators is markedly lower when compared to the beginning of the Delta variant wave; and second, the overall number of people testing positive for Covid-19 is now close to levels seen during the Delta wave at the same phase of the wave, but intensive care unit admissions have not risen in lockstep.This mirrors a recent assessment by the NICD that found that this time, most of the hospitalised people are being treated on “room air” instead of needing oxygen support.If these trends hold up for another week or two, Omicron may indeed be considered a milder variant. At present, the conclusion may be tenuous since there seems to be a larger share of younger people infected in Gauteng.New scientific evidenceTwo scientific studies reinforce what is being observed.The first, one of the earliest neutralisation tests from which results seem to be available, was by GlaxoSmithKline’s biotech arm Vir Biotechnology, which found the company’s antibody treatment is still effective against the full combination of mutations in Omicron.The study, data for which was not yet out as on Tuesday, found there was a less than threefold drop in neutralisation by the company’s product sotrovimab of an engineered virus with the same configuration as Omicron.The second is new protein modelling by researchers from University of North Carolina, who used the AlphaFold2 deep learning model to create a simulation of the variant. Using what they found, and additional simulations of how known antibodies interact with the virus, the researchers predicted that there are “some structural changes in the receptor-binding domain that may reduce antibody interaction, but no drastic changes that would completely evade existing neutralizing antibodies (and therefore current vaccines)”.The findings are significant since AlphaFold2, a machine learning protein modelling programme created by Google’s DeepMind, has previously shown unprecedented accuracy in determining how proteins fold, a visualisation that is a challenge to estimate from merely reading genomic data.Omicron’s sequence was shared on November 22, South African authorities reported its spread on November 25, and it was designated a variant of concern on November 26. It is still early days for conclusive signs, but the early hopeful clues may not be entirely misleading.
08-12-2021||India||SP’s Lal Topi in PM Modi’s crosshairs at East UP rally||“The red caps are red alerts for Uttar Pradesh,” Prime Minister Narendra Modi said on Tuesday at an event in Gorakhpur, referring to the Samajwadi Party (SP), whose members wear red caps.The comment, which came at an event to mark the reopening of a fertiliser plant and an AIIMS (All India Institute of Medical Sciences) in the city, evoked an immediate response from SP leader Akhilesh Yadav (who too wears the characteristic red cap) who said the real “red alert for the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) to which the PM belongs is “rising prices, unemployment”, the condition of “farmers”, and the “Hathras” and “Lakhimpur” incidents. He was referring to the gangrape and murder of a Dalit woman in 2020 in Hathras and the deaths of eight people in violence in 2021 in Lakhimpur Kheri, respectively.Uttar Pradesh, India’s most populous and politically most important state, goes to the polls early next year and the BJP and the SP, the two main contenders in a four-cornered fight, have started their campaign. This is the PM’s fifth visit to the state since November 1.The PM said previous governments did nothing to revive fertiliser plants, nor allotted land for AIIMS, and added that the launch of both was a fitting reply to “those who talk of timing”, a reference to Yadav and his SP claiming that work on the Purvanchal Expressway, inaugurated with much fanfare on November 16, was actually started during the SP government’s tenure (2012-17). Even during the pandemic, the government continued its focus on development, Modi said.He also accused the SP of forgetting the path of Lohia (Ram Manohar Lohia) and Jai Prakash Narayan – socialist leaders on whose ideals the party was formed, “The people wearing red caps are more interested in red lights (beacons on VIP cars) and do not bother about your pain and sorrow. They are interested in filling their coffers, getting terrorists released from jail, and providing patronage to goons. These are like red alerts or warning bells for Uttar Pradesh,” Modi said.The PM inaugurated a fertiliser factory worth ₹8,600 crore and an AIIMS that has been built at a cost of ₹1,010 crore. The PM also opened three high-tech laboratories set up by the Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR) at the BRD Medical College to test samples for the encephalitis virus (earlier, samples were sent to labs in Pune).The newly built fertiliser plant will be operated by the Hindustan Urvarak Rasayan Limited (HURL).“When there is a government of double engines, then work with double the speed is done. When work is done with a good intention, even disasters do not become a hindrance. When there is a government that cares about the poor, exploited and disadvantaged, it also works hard, also shows results by bringing them,” he said.Modi said he would keep fighting for the rights of the poor, farmers, Dalits, and the deprived sections of society. “Reopening of five big fertiliser factories in the country is on the cards and the start has been made from Gorakhpur,” he emphasised.Lauding chief minister Yogi Adityanath for effectively handling crime in UP, the PM said all goons were in jail, and because of this, investors were investing in UP with an open heart, pushing the state on the path of growth and development.“By setting up the fertiliser factory, we have moved in the direction of self reliance in manufacturing urea. Earlier thousands of crores of rupees would go abroad to import urea and fertilisers, and we understood this better in the time of pandemic when due to travel restrictions, the price of urea went up significantly. But our government didn’t let this burden of rising prices come on to the farmers and ensured supply of cheap urea by providing subsidy of ₹35,000 crore on it,” said Modi, adding that his government took steps to check black marketing of urea, introduced 100% neem-coated urea and provided soil health cards to farmers so that they could choose fertilisers best suited for their land.The PM said that efforts were on to substitute diesel with biofuels like ethanol, a by-product of sugarcane.Speaking about deaths due to encephalitis in east UP, Modi said that with the UP government’s efforts, the mortality rate due to the disease had reduced by 95%.UP chief minister Adityanath cited the slogan “Modi hai to mumkin hai (Modi makes things possible)” to credit the PM with establishment of fertiliser factory and AIIMS. “The people of east UP are happy and overwhelmed... On June 10, 1990, Gorakhpur’s fertiliser factory was shut down and even after 24 years nobody bothered to restart it... But Modi ji understood the pain of people and gave the region a new fertiliser factory which has four times the capacity of the older one,” Adtiyanath said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/sps-lal-topi-in-pm-modi-s-crosshairs-at-east-up-rally-101638902952067.html
08-12-2021||India||MP bangle seller who was thrashed by mob gets bail after 115 days||The Indore bench of Madhya Pradesh high court has granted bail to bangle seller Taslim Ali, who was in jail for the past 115 days on the charges of sexually harassing a 13-year-old girl, and carrying two Aadhaar and voter identification cards.His bail was rejected by a sessions court on September 4, and the high court deferred the hearing nine times for various reasons.Ali, a resident of Hardoi in Uttar Pradesh, was arrested on August 23, a day after he filed a complaint against half-a-dozen people for thrashing him and robbing at least ₹10,000 from him in the Banganga area of Indore. The complaint against him was filed on the same day.The single bench of justice Sujoy Paul granted him bail on Tuesday after he furnished a bond of ₹50,000.“Ali got bail after 10 hearings. However, four people, who were arrested for allegedly thrashing him were granted bail in 30 days only,” advocate Ehtesham Hashmi said.“The applicant has not committed any crime and has been implicated by the complainant so that they could save themselves from the clutches of law. He was harassed after knowing his religion, targeted, and bashed up mercilessly,” the lawyer had said in the bail application.The court granted him bail after seeing his past record,” said Aditya Garg, the government’s lawyer. “He has been asked to appear before the court during the hearing of the case.”Earlier, the hearing of the bail petition at the high court was deferred at least nine times due to different reasons after the sessions court rejected the bail plea on September 4.
08-12-2021||India||Cannot let kids with rare diseases die, Delhi high court raps Centre||New Delhi: The Delhi high court on Tuesday pulled up the Union government for not utilising funds collected to provide assistance for the treatment of children suffering from rare diseases, saying it will not permit these kids to “die despite funds being available”. Calling it a “mockery of the whole thing”, Justice Rekha Palli said no justification has been given by the Centre for not utilising the unspent budget allocated from the last three years to the rare diseases fund. “What is this? Children are dying because of lack of funds... What about the corpus which is available with the government here. I will not permit these children to die despite funds being available. When there are funds, why should the children suffering from rare diseases not get it?” the judge said. The court was hearing a bunch of petitions filed on behalf of children suffering from rare diseases like Duchenne Muscular Dystrophy (DMD), Hunter’s syndrome, seeking direction to the Centre to provide them uninterrupted and free of cost treatment as the therapy is very expensive. DMD, one of the various forms of muscular dystrophy, is a rare genetic disease that affects boys almost exclusively and causes progressive weakness. Mucopolysaccharidosis II or MPS II (Hunter Syndrome) is a rare disease that is passed on in families and mainly affects boys and their bodies cannot break down a kind of sugar that builds bones, skin, tendons and other tissues. In September, the court had asked the Union government to take steps for transferring ₹63 crore from the crowd funding account, lying with the Kerala high court, to that of the rare diseases account. On Tuesday, additional solicitor general (ASG) Chetan Sharma told the court that it has filed an impleadment application before the Kerala high court. He said even though the application has been allowed, not much progress has been made in using the funds. This did not go well with the court, which said the Centre’s affidavit did not give any justification for not mentioning the names of the patients on the online portal. While directing the Centre to come back with a concrete answer, Justice Palli said, “On the next date, the ASG will also obtain instructions whether it is possible to provide treatment to petitioners and thereafter adjust the amount which may be received in the portal set up for the set purpose”. The court listed the matter for further hearing on December 15. The court also asked the ASG to take instructions as to whether it is possible to provide treatment to the petitioners and adjust the amount which may be received in the portal set up for the set purpose.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/cannot-let-kids-with-rare-diseases-die-delhi-high-court-raps-centre-101638902654593.html
08-12-2021||India||UP elections: SP, RLD announce alliance, vow ‘sunset’ for BJP||The Samajwadi Party (SP) and the Rashtriya Janata Dal (RLD) on Tuesday announced an alliance for assembly elections in Uttar Pradesh early next year, holding a big rally in the politically crucial western region of India’s most populous state.The two parties vowed to defeat the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP), which is hoping to secure a second straight term, and courted farmers who spent a year protesting three central laws that have now been repealed.“This time there would be sunset of the BJP forever in western Uttar Pradesh,” SP chief Akhilesh Yadav said in Dabathua village of Meerut district. “Kisanon ka inquilab hoga, 2022 me badlav hoga (There will be revolution by farmers and change in 2022),” he added.RLD chief Jayant Chaudhary said if the alliance came to power, it will build a memorial for “martyrs” of the year-long farm protest. He also attacked the BJP government for the recent leak of a government competitive examination question paper and subsequent cancellation of the test.“The BJP will get a befitting reply from the people in the Uttar Pradesh assembly polls next year as they have understood its politics of hatred. The BJP talks of hatred and our babaji (a reference to chief minister Yogi Adityanath) starts with Aurangzeb and ends with the Kairana exodus,” he said.During the previous assembly polls in 2017, some BJP leaders said Hindu families fled Kairana town in Shamli district after intimidation by Muslim criminals, a claim that was later challenged by the local administration and other residents.This is the second major alliance forged by the SP, which is looking to reverse defeats in the 2017 state polls and 2019 general elections at the hands of the BJP. Last month, Yadav joined hands with the Suheldev Bharatiya Samaj Party, which has influence among sections of the other backward classes (OBCs) in eastern Uttar Pradesh.The RLD, which has a base among the Jat and Muslim communities in 14 districts of Saharanpur, Meerut and Moradabad divisions with 71 Assembly seats, in western Uttar Pradesh, suffered reverses in the 2014, 2017 and 2019 polls, but is looking to revive itself on the back of the farm stir.In his speech Chaudhary hailed the agitation. “I appreciate farmers for winning a big battle and forcing (Prime Minister Narendra) Modiji, probably for the first time, to bow before them,” he said, referring to the repeal of three central farm laws on November 29.“Our party had announced the construction of a memorial in Meerut, but now Akhilesh ji and I are together. The first work our double-engine government will do is to construct a memorial for martyr farmers, who died during farmers’ protest,” Chaudhary said. He accused BJP leaders of insulting cultivators.“In Lakhimpur Kheri, farmers were crushed. Over 700 of them died during the agitation,” he said. During violence in Lakhimpur Kheri on October 3 this year, eight people died, including four farmers and two BJP workers.Yadav remembered Charan Singh, former Prime Minister and Chaudhary’s grandfather, BR Ambedkar, Ram Manohar Lohia and farm leader Mahendra Singh Tikait. “Farmers were fighting for their rights and they wanted that government should listen to them, but they were crushed under the jeep by BJP’s minister and his supporters,” he said, referring to the Lakhimpur Kheri incident.He said farmers should be given their rights and a decision should be taken for providing them crop support prices.Chaudhary also attacked chief minister Adityanath. “Babaji becomes angry very fast. You have never seen him smiling. He smiles only when he is with bacchde (calves). I ask you people to free him so that he can play with his calves for 24 hours. He cannot handle government files.”Yadav said RLD and SP workers will help in strengthening harmony among the people and said the SP- RLD government will give relief in electricity bills to the poor if they formed the government.“The joint rally of the SP-RLD was a super flop show. It is clear that the SP chief’s Jinnah talk has alienated his supporters. Nobody would want to associate with a leader who equates one who was responsible for country’s partition with someone like Sardar Patel, a great leader and a patriot who united the country. Our respected Prime Minister rightly said that ‘Lal Topis’ mean red alert,” state BJP spokesman Harish Srivastava said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/up-elections-sp-rld-announce-alliance-vow-sunset-for-bjp-101638902534879.html
08-12-2021||India||Aviation minister Scindia issues action plan for airports amid Omicron threat||Union civil aviation minister Jyotiraditya Scindia on Tuesday held a high-level meeting to put in place a targeted action plan for a thorough but smooth screening of international arrivals as cases of the Omicron variant of coronavirus are inching up in the country.The meeting was attended by civil aviation secretary Rajiv Bansal and chairman of Airports Authority of India (AAI) Sanjeev Kumar, officials said.“Took stock of the preparedness, testing capacities, and the situation on the ground with regard to crowd management at both private and @AAI_Official airports. Have put an action plan with 8 compliances on immigration queues, expanding RT-PCR service providers,” Scindia tweeted on Tuesday.“...Ramping up help desks & forex counters, along with seamless floor management. Rest assured, @MoCA_GoI is monitoring the situation on a daily basis & passengers shall not face any inconvenience at airports,” he added.Instructions were given to keep an eye on social media platforms for better passenger care, officials said. “The aim is to reach out for help in case someone highlights an issue,” said one ministry official who asked not to be named.To ensure smooth passage of international travellers arriving in India, the aviation and health ministries on Tuesday mandated contactless self-declaration on the Air Suvidha portal.“To ensure the necessary prevention of the Omicron variant of the COVID-19 virus, the exemption forms from the Air Suvidha portal have been discontinued, and filling of the details have been made compulsory for all international passengers arriving in India,” said a statement from the aviation ministry.“All international passengers arriving in India are mandated to declare their current health status prior to boarding on the Air Suvidha portal, along with the required documents: copy of passport, PCR negative certificate from a test conducted within 72 hours of departure, and the vaccination certificate. For immigration, the copy received in e-mail is essential on arrival in India and has to be verified at the APHO (airport health office) counter,” the statement added.The government issued an updated list of “at-risk” countries, adding Ghana and Tanzania to the list of 14 regions from where travellers have to go through mandatory testing on arrival, and home quarantine for seven days. The list incudes all of Europe including the UK, South Africa, Brazil, Botswana, China, Mauritius, New Zealand, Zimbabwe, Singapore, Hong Kong and Israel.Bangladesh, which was a part of the original list, was removed from it.In order to avoid crowding at Delhi airport, the Delhi International Airport Limited (DIAL) has set up 20 dedicated counters to deal with passengers from these at-risk countries who have pre-booked their test, and increased seating and waiting space.DIAL CEO Videh Kumar Jaipuriar on Monday said the airport was making continuous enhancements in terms of the infrastructure and processes required to comply with the new screening norms.Chetan Kohli, chief operating officer at Genestrings Diagnostics, the lab carrying out testing of fliers at the Delhi airport, said that out of 120 rapid testing machines, 50 will be placed inside the terminal, which will save an additional 30 minutes spent on moving samples to the main lab, which is located at the multilevel car parking at Terminal 3.“We’re also hiring additional staff to have 60 registration desks, as against 40 right now, to speed up the process and cater to additional countries, if any are added to the at-risk category,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/scindia-issues-action-plan-for-airports-amid-omicron-threat-101638902292830.html
08-12-2021||India||HT THIS DAY: December 8, 1970 — Absolute majority for Awami League in East Pak elections||Dacca- The right-wing Awami League, headed by Sheikh Mujibur Rahman, scored an absolute majority in the eastern wing in today’s general elections in Pakistan, according to unofficial results reported here tonight.Sheikh Rahman himself won two seats in the Dacca City National Assembly constituency. Polling began at 8-30 a.m. today and was held smoothly until 4-30 p.m. throughout Pakistan, apart from a few isolated incidents. The percentage of votes cast ranged from 90 to 95 per cent in towns and five to 80 per cent in rural areas. A high percentage of women voted.The lone rival of Sheikh Rahman in East Pakistan, Khawaja Khairuddin, president of the East Pakistan Council Muslim League, complained that 30 per cent of the votes were fake.There were sporadic reports of minor clashes. In Chittagong, voters were prevented from casting their ballots at daggers point, women voters were manhandled and molested and two voting booths were suspended.Complete election returns had been received from several tribal constituencies, in at least three of which the winning candidates were Independents.Today’s election was to fill 290 seats in the 313-member National Assembly, which is to frame a Constitution within 120 days.Polling has been postponed in nine constituencies, one candidate has already been returned uncontested and 13 women are to be chosen by the Assembly later to fill the seats reserved for them.Key seatsAccording to latest trends in counting in key constituencies, the former Foreign Minister, Mr Z. A. Bhutto, Pakistan’s Muslim League leader, Khan Abdul Qayyum Khan, the National Awami Party jeacer, Khan Wali Khan and Pakistan’s Democratic Party leader, Mr Nurul Amin, were leading in their constituencies.A key election issue for East Pakistan’s 30 million voters is greater control over their own affairs and resentment over alleged neglect and exploitation by the West Pakistan-dominated Central Government.The Awami League programme calls for maximum provincial autonomy, leaving only defence and foreign affairs with the Central Government in Islamabad. According to AP, police used batons to disperse fighting mobs outside a women’s booth in Karachi.President Yabya Khan cast his vote at a Rawalpindi booth. Talking to newsmen later, he said he had fulfilled his promise to hold elections on the basis of adult franchise in preparation for transfer of power to civilian hands. He said the Constitution to be framed by the new National Assembly, whose members are being chosen today, would have to be approved by him as the President. Twenty-four parties were fielding more than 1,600 candidates for 290 of 313 seats in the National Assembly. More than 50 million voters constituting roughly half of Pakistan’s population form the electorate. All precautionary measures had been taken by the army to maintain law and order. There was intensive polling in Sindh, Baluchistan and West Punjab. Radio Pakistan, in its commentary, kept telling the voters that Islam and God were supreme and that the defence and security of the nation were matters of vital importance. The commentary was frequently interrupted to warn the public that those who broke the law during the poll would be severely dealt with. Gen. Yahya Khan’s recent statement that law and order would be maintained at all costs was incorporated in the commentary. Also included in it was a message on the need for unity, given more than two decades ago by the late M. A. Jinnah, the founder of Pakistan.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/htthisday-december-8-1970-absolute-majority-for-awami-league-in-east-pak-elections-101638902236212.html
08-12-2021||India||‘I am broken inside’: Grief sweeps Nagaland village of 14 killed||Darkness had started to fall on Saturday afternoon when Monglong heard the faint boom of gunshots. The 35-year-old pastor had just seen off her husband, Hokup, who worked at a coal mine in Nagaland’s far-flung Mon district, and didn’t think too much of it.Hokup had just left their home in Oting village for the mine nearby with some friends. The couple had wed nine days before and she was eager to see him back home later that night. Deep in thought, she drifted off to sleep.She remembered being jolted out of sleep some hours later by relatives and neighbours, who told her that she had to lead prayers for some “brothers” who died in a firing. Dread rising in her, she started to call her husband frantically -- it was night but he was still to return.“I called so many times but he didn’t answer…. Then I called one of his friends who answered and told me that Hokup had an injury on his hand,” Monglong said.“When I insisted to speak to him, I heard him saying that he was in a lot of pain that he would talk to me later and hung up,” she added.Also Read| Nagaland killings: Home minister Amit Shah expresses regretThe man she spoke to was wrong. Hokup was not injured in the hand, but shot in the chest, fatally. A few hours later, he died. “I couldn’t breathe when they told me that Hokup was dead,” she said.In the small village of Oting, roughly 300km from the state capital of Kohima, there are many like her who are mourning the loss of their brothers, sons, fathers and husbands. Many of the residents -- a father battling cancer, a mother with twin sons -- are yet to come to terms with the grief that has swept the region since an elite military commando unit gunned down 14 civilians in a botched operation on Saturday.“I cannot comprehend fully what is going on, I don’t know what will happen to me,” Monglong said.Their stories of pain and anguish reverberate in the empty homes that dot the mountains in the region, and echo far away in Delhi where Parliament has been roiled by the killings. Thousands of people from across the state have poured into their humble village, where the men, most of whom worked at a local coal mine, were laid to rest on Monday.But for the kin of the victims,it means little.Ngamlem, whose husband Langtun fell to the army bullets, is left to tend to her two-month-old child. Married a little over a year ago, she is inconsolable. “Brother I can’t talk...” she wailed, surrounded by mourners in Mon town.Chemwang, a cancer patient, couldn’t believe that his son and sole caregiver, Shomwang, is gone. Shomwang had bought a pick-up truck and used to drive it for a living, ferrying villagers from a coal mine in Tiru area.“They killed my innocent son...I am broken inside. I have been unwell, he used to take care of me...I will go mad, what will I do,” said Chemwang. To bystanders and mourners, his only question was, “Why did they do this?”Awan Konyak was in shock. Her twin sons, Langwang and Thapwang, worked at the mine and died in the ambush. “They should have known innocents are travelling the truck. The government should ensure my sons get justice,” said Awan, 66. “Both were our only hope. Now, who will take care of us?” she asked.The army’s 21 Para special force unit was conducting an operation in the area after receiving inputs on the possible movement of militants of Yung Aung faction of the proscribed outfit National Socialist Council of Nagaland-Khaplang (NSCN-K).Based on intelligence inputs that have since been disputed, the commandos laid an ambush on Saturday evening and killed six men who were in a pick-up truck. Another eight people were killed by troops when they were confronted by a furious crowd in two separate incidents, with a soldier also being killed and army vehicles set ablaze.Also Read| Nagaland lawmaker KG Kenye slams Afspa, compares it with ‘licence to kill’Nagaland Police’s FIR named the army’s elite special unit behind the killings and claimed that the security forces had intention to murder and injure civilians. The security forces personnel tried to hide the dead bodies by wrapping and loading them in a pickup truck, according to the report by the state director general of police and commissioner.In Oting, the grief of the residents is laced with anger. Many families say those responsible for the killing should be arrested and punished for the crime. “They cannot bring him back but I want justice. That whoever is guilty is punished,” Monglong said.The memories of Saturday continue to sear her. Hokup had returned the day before to attend the funeral of a friend. The couple later shared a simple meal of rice and mustard leaves before he rushed back -- so that he could back early that night. “How was I to know that it was the last time we were meeting?” she asked?(With agency inputs)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/i-am-broken-inside-grief-sweeps-nagaland-village-101638902232926.html
08-12-2021||India||18th century George Everest house gets facelift, thrown open to public||Around 8 km from Mussoorie is the George Everest peak, atop which is the 18th century house of George Everest, the man after whom Mount Everest, the tallest mountain in the world is named -- although he likely never set eyes on it.It is in this house that Everest, then the Surveyor General of India lived between 1832 and 1843, when he returned to England.For years, the house lay locked and dilapidated (it was under the management and ownership of the Archaeological Society of India). On Tuesday, Uttarakhand tourism minister Satpal Maharaj dedicated the restored iconic heritage house of George Everest, a cartographic museum and an observatory at Park Estate in Mussoorie to the public.Gopal Bhardwaj, a local historian who received a plaque from the tourism minister for his research work on the area, said, “The George Everest House was built in 1832 but later became dilapidated. When tourism minister Satpal Maharaj was requested in 2017 to restore the house, he readily agreed , and today we see it in a new avatar”.The location of the house is strategic and it was used as an observatory to view mountains that demarcated the boundaries of British India.It does not provide a view of Mount Everest though. Mount Everest was mapped by the British only in the 1850s and named after George Everest in 1856 -- in honour of the fact that he completed what is called the Great Trigonometric Survey of the Subcontinent. He was succeeded by Andrew Waugh; Radhanath Sikdar a so-called “computer” for the Geological Survey of India, was the first person to measure Mount Everest’s height, and many people believe the world’s highest peak should have been named after him.It is reported that George Everest himself protested when it was suggested that the newly discovered mountain the world’s tallest, be named after him, but that he was overruled.Satpal Maharaj said, “Our vision to restore the iconic House of the Sir George Everest House and the surroundings has finally been fulfilled. The project has been completed with an estimated cost of around ₹ 23 crores with an objective to attract tourists not only from India but abroad too. Once the cartography museum is fully equipped, the descendants of Sir George Everest will be invited to see the restored George Everest House”.Maharaj said the house has been restored using the same technology that was used for the construction of the original structure.The project was taken up with financial support from the Asian Development Bank (ADB). The minister also flagged off a shuttle service from George Everest House that will bring tourists to the spot from Mussoorie.The tourism minister also released the book “The Great Ark” on the occasion and planted a tree in the George Everest House premises.Sandeep Sahni, president Uttarakhand Hotel and Restaurant Association said, “It is indeed a boon for the tourist town of Mussoorie that the iconic George Everest House along with cartographic museum and observatory have been restored so that tourists can learn about the survey completed by Sir George Everest”.Sir George Everest (July 4, 1790 –December 1, 1866) was a British surveyor and geographer who served as Surveyor General of India from 1830 to 1843. For his contributions, Mount Everest, the highest mountain on Earth which was earlier called Peak XV, was named in his honour. He worked on Great Trigonometric Survey, and was largely responsible for surveying the meridian arc from the southernmost point of India north to Nepal, a distance of about 2,400 kilometres . George Everest House and laboratory, where he lived for 11 years, is located at Park Easte near Hathipaon, about 8 kms from Gandhi Chowk in Mussoorie.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/18th-century-george-everest-house-gets-facelift-thrown-open-to-public-101638901633012.html
08-12-2021||India||PM Modi may visit UAE, Kuwait in January to strengthen ties||Prime Minister Narendra Modi is expected to open his foreign visit calendar in 2022 with trips to the United Arab Emirates and Kuwait, both trusted allies, early in January. While Modi will visit Expo 2020 in Dubai, the real purpose of the visit, HT learns, is to thank both allies for standing with India during the second wave of Covid-19 pandemic as well as taking care of the huge Indian diaspora in these two emirates. The UAE has no less than four million Indians and Kuwait has nearly one million Indian diaspora, who contribute to Indian economy through remittances as well as in times of need.Even though the government is tight-lipped about the visit, PM Modi may travel to these two countries in the first 10 days of January 2022. Special emphasis is being paid to these two foreign trips as both nations are at the heart of India’s foreign policy in West Asia.Since his first visit to UAE at the invitation of Crown Prince Mohammed bin Zayed Al Nahyan in August 2015, PM Modi has been focused on cementing ties with Abu Dhabi, with foreign minister S Jaishankar returning from the UAE last Sunday. UAE is India’s third largest trade partner after US and China with the trade volumes touching over $60 billion. The January 2022 trip will be Modi’s fourth to the UAE; before him, the last PM to visit the UAE was Indira Gandhi, 32 years before his first visit.India and the UAE have taken their ties to a new level with the latter cleaning up all anti-India criminal and economic activity from the Gulf nation. There has also been significant cooperation in the fields of cyber-security, counter-radicalisation, defence and intelligence sharing. “Just as India is focused on Singapore as a hub of diplomatic activity in the east, it is on Abu Dhabi in West Asia, for getting investments into India,” said a former foreign secretary. India recognises that UAE has, over the years, not only has developed global-quality infrastructure but has also emerged a hub of diplomatic activity in the region. It is also a major regional defence power as was evident when last week UAE decided to purchase 80 Rafale fighters and 13 heavy lift helicopters from France.Like with the UAE, Indian ties with Kuwait are very special with the latter supplying oxygen cylinders and other medical equipment in large numbers during the second wave of pandemic in India. In fact, EAM Jaishankar flew to Kuwait with a personal letter from PM Modi to Kuwaiti Emir Sheikh Nawaf al-Ahmed al-Sabah, thanking Kuwait for its support and with the future objective of deepening ties in energy, trade, information technology and services. 
08-12-2021||India||Shringla focusses on green energy, water-sharing in Bangladesh visit||Cooperation in areas such as connectivity, green energy, e-commerce and water-sharing figured in foreign secretary Harsh Shringla’s meetings with Bangladeshi officials in Dhaka on Tuesday. Shringla, who is on a two-day trip to Bangladesh, will review wide-ranging bilateral cooperation and prepare the grounds for President Ram Nath Kovind’s state visit during December 15-17. Kovind will join the 50th Victory Day celebrations on December 16. He held talks with his Bangladeshi counterpart Masud Bin Momen and met foreign minister AK Abdul Momen on Tuesday. Shringla will call on Prime Minister Sheikh Hasina on Wednesday. Following his meeting with Shringla, the Bangladeshi foreign minister told reporters in Dhaka they had discussed a number of “pending issues” between Bangladesh and India, including water-sharing and deaths in incidents along the border. The foreign minister said Dhaka had urged New Delhi to expedite the process of holding the next meeting of the joint river commission to resolve water-sharing issues. “They gave us a formula to check unwanted incidents on the frontier,” he said. He added India isn’t expected to make any move that could create cracks in the ongoing “golden chapter” of bilateral relations. “They also don’t want to see any incident that could make any kind of (crack) in Bangladesh-India relations,” he told the media. “We have to solidify this relation…it is needed for welfare of the people of both countries,” he added. Talking to the media after his meeting with the Bangladeshi foreign secretary, Shringla said there are “no major difference in opinions” on pending issues between India and Bangladesh. “We discussed the issues but we found no major differences…There are only areas to take forward. We are looking forward how we can work on (resolving the issues),” he was quoted as saying BSS news agency. Masud Bin Momen said he and Shringla had a fruitful discussion on all pending issues during their meeting that lasted almost an hour, but didn’t give any details. “We also discussed how we can make our border peaceful,” he said. Among the issues that figured in the discussions were connectivity, green energy, green technology and e-commerce, Masud Bin Momen said. Cooperation between the two sides for the Covid-19 response will continue as “Bangladesh cannot be safe if India is not safe and India cannot be safe if Bangladesh is not safe”, he added. Shringla said connectivity projects between the two sides are going on well and five out of six historic rail connections have been restored and the sixth one will be completed this year. He said India wants to promote eco-friendly railway and water connectivity with Bangladesh. He added that the Indian prime minister and president had made Bangladesh the destination for their first foreign visit following the pandemic, and this shows the bilateral relationship is passing through a “golden chapter”. Shringla also said New Delhi and Dhaka are working to arrange Prime Minister Hasina’s visit to India at the earliest. The Indian foreign secretary arrived in Dhaka a day after both countries celebrated “Maitri Diwas” or friendship day in 18 cities worldwide, including Dhaka and New Delhi to commemorate their close ties over the past 50 years. The external affairs ministry describes India’s ties with Bangladesh as one of the strongest pillars of its “Neighbourhood First” policy.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/shringla-focusses-on-green-energy-water-sharing-in-bangladesh-visit-101638899773154.html
08-12-2021||India||More probe into Gujarat riots will be travesty of justice, Supreme Court told||Ordering any further probe into an alleged larger conspiracy behind the 2002 Gujarat riots will amount to a travesty of justice, the Gujarat government told the Supreme Court on Tuesday in response to a petition contesting the clean chit given by the special investigation team (SIT) to 63 people. The list includes Prime Minister Narendra Modi, who was the Gujarat chief minister at the time.The petition was filed by Zakia Ahsan Jafri, the widow of former Congress MP Ehsan Jafri, who was killed in the Gulberg Society in Ahmedabad during the communal riots, in which over 1,000 people lost their lives.“The role of the state government was gone into in detail by a commission of inquiry (CoI) headed by a judge of this court. In the name of the first petitioner (Zakia), the second petitioner (social activist Teesta Setalvad) wants to keep the pot boiling by seeking further investigation which I state will be a travesty of justice that should not be encouraged by this court,” solicitor general (SG) Tushar Mehta, appearing for the state, said on Tuesday.Mehta added that the state did everything it could in those circumstances by calling in the army in time and issuing orders to prevent law and order situations. This was noted by the Commission of Inquiry. “Now at the behest of the second petitioner, any further exercise of power by this Court would not be in the public interest.”Senior advocate Kapil Sibal, appearing for Zakia and Setalvad, responded to the argument by saying: “If you stoke the fire, the pot will boil, and if you keep stoking the fire, the pot will continue to boil.” Sibal contended that the SIT did not do a fair job as it shielded some of the accused, and doubted the state’s argument that all steps were taken by the administration to control the riots.Sibal also referred to arguments by the SIT counsel, Mukul Rohatgi who said there was no violence in the state till the afternoon of February 28, 2002, when the riots had begun. “If there was no violence till 1 o’clock, why then did you ask for the army at 2 o’clock? There is evidence that violence commenced on February 27 itself. That is why we argued that SIT should probe the buildup to the riots.”In September 2011, the top court directed the SIT to examine Zakia Jafri’s complaint against the state functionaries alleging conspiracy in the riots. The SIT, headed by former CBI director RK Raghavan, concluded there was no larger conspiracy and filed a closure report before a Gujarat court in 2012. Jafri challenged the closure before a trial court, which dismissed her plea. Later, in October 2017, the Gujarat high court refused to entertain the petition challenging the closure of the SIT. This order was then challenged before the top court by Zakia and Setalvad 2018.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/more-probe-into-gujarat-riots-will-be-travesty-of-justice-supreme-court-told-101638899652854.html
08-12-2021||India||India’s top 10% reach highest wealth level||The Covid-19 pandemic inflicted unprecedented damage to economies across the globe. While a recovery is underway, it is not necessary that both the rich and the poor will recover equally. The World Inequality Report 2022, released on December 7, shows this is indeed the case. Apart from wealth, it tracks other inequalities that have become important in today’s world, such as that in greenhouse gas emissions.The report, produced by the World Inequality Lab hosted at the Paris School of Economics and the University of Berkeley, California, shows that the richest in India increased their share of wealth in 2021 by a historic degree. It also shows that women in India have a much lower share in labour income compared to their global peers.Share of bottom 50% in India’s wealth is the lowest everIn 2021, the average household wealth in India was ₹983,010 per adult, according to the report. However, this figure is driven by some of the wealthiest people in India. The top 10% owned assets worth ₹6,354,070 on average ( ₹63.5 lakh, and the top 1% own ₹324.5 lakh on average), which is 96 times more than the bottom 50% ( ₹66,280). As these numbers suggest, private wealth is concentrated in the hands of a few in India. In 2021, this concentration became more pronounced. The top 10% had a share of 64.64% in total household wealth, the highest since 1995, the earliest year for which this data is available. The share of the bottom 50% decreased to its lowest levels since 1995 to 5.9%. In 2020, the share of the top 10% was 63.94%, in 2019, 64.05%. And the share of the bottom 50% in 2020 was 6.02%, and in 2019, 6%.To be sure, this trend was not unique to India. Billionaires (individuals owning at least $1b in nominal terms) increased their share in total household wealth of the world from 2.20% in 2020 to 3.34% in 2021. This 52% increase in share is the highest since 1996. The top 0.1% registered an 8.3% growth – 4th highest since 1996 – in their share to amass 11.11% of the world’s household wealth. The entry threshold of top 0.1% was €693,000 (PPP) in 1995 and is €16,666,000 today.Income inequality in India is as high as it was under British colonial ruleWealth represents assets minus debts at a point in time. Income is the money that a person receives in an interval, such as wages. According to the report, income inequality is generally less than wealth inequality. For India, it estimates that the top 10% earners make 20 times ( ₹1,166,520) as much as the bottom 50% ( ₹53,610).In terms of concentration, the top 10% accounts for 57.1% of the income now, while the bottom 50% receive only 13.1%. To be sure, the top earners have not achieved this level of concentration in a linear fashion. In colonial times, their share was around 50%, but started decreasing after independence, reaching a low of 30.9% in 1982, before it started increasing again. “After independence, socialist-inspired five-year plans contributed to reducing this share to 35-40%. Since the mid-1980s, deregulation and liberalisation policies have led to one of the most extreme increases in income and wealth inequality observed in the world,” the report says.To be sure, these figures are not the most recent and have not changed in the dataset since 2014. “Over the past three years, the quality of inequality data released by the government has seriously deteriorated, making it particularly difficult to assess recent inequality changes,” the report adds.Indian women’s share in labour income is much less than their global peersThe World Inequality Report 2022 also estimates gender inequality in global earnings. The earnings estimated for this only take into account labour income, or wages and salaries and labour share of self-employment income. This shows that women received only 18.3% of the labour income in 2020 in India. This is almost half the share that accrued to women in other developing economies such as Brazil (38.5%) and China (33.4%), as well as the global average (34.70%). Among different regions of the world, Indian women’s share in earnings comes close to the proportion in MENA (Middle East and North Africa) . Women’s share in labour earnings in India has also grown at a slower rate between 2010 and 2020 (19% increase) than between 2000 and 2010 (36% increase).Inequalities in GHG emissions are not just a rich and poor country issue The climate crisis caused by global warming is one of the great 21st century challenges. It has also brought forward another dimension of inequality: ecological inequality. One of its forms is the differences in greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions across the globe. In climate negotiations, for example, developing and under-developed countries ask for fewer curbs on their emissions because they have contributed less historically to the stock of GHGs in the atmosphere. The World Inequality Report, however, shows that emissions are not necessarily a rich and poor country issue.The richest within different countries emit disproportionately more. India’s top 10% emits 9 times as much GHG per capita as the bottom 50%, although it is still less than all major regional averages. On the other hand, even the poor in some country might emit more than the rich in another. The bottom 50% in North America, for instance, emits 9.7 tonnes of CO2 equivalent per capita per year. This is similar to the 10.6 tonnes of CO2 equivalent emitted by the middle 40% in Europe per capita per year.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/indias-top-10-reach-highest-wealth-level-101638898391710.html
08-12-2021||NA||Breaking news highlights: Gujarat adds 61 new Covid cases, 39 more recoveries||Welcome to hindustantimes.com live updates platform where you can find breaking news from India and across the world. Find fast updates about the latest news as it breaks.Missed an important news update? Worried about what is happening in the world of finance and how it will impact you? Want to know about the latest update on Covid-19? Don't worry, we have you covered.Follow all the updates here:Gujarat adds 61 new Covid-19 cases, 39 more recoveriesGujarat on Tuesday added 61 new cases of Covid-19 in the last 24 hours, taking the caseload to 827,806. The tally of recoveries went up to 817,339 with 39 patients getting discharged. Biden-Putin meet: Biden to call European leaders#UPDATE US President Joe Biden will call the leaders of Britain, France, Germany and Italy after he finishes a virtual summit with Russian President Vladimir Putin, the White House said pic.twitter.com/IT8LxGIzQoThe meet focussed on Biden telling Putin the ramifications of Russia's invasion of Ukraine Will make every effort to unite all non-BJP parties: NCPThe NCP on Tuesday said it will make every effort to form a broad-based alliance of parties, including the Congress, to take on the BJP in 2024, but distanced itself from Trinamool Congress supremo Mamata Banerjee's barbs at the grand old party, reports PTI. TMC delegation to meet Shah on TuesdayA delegation of TMC leaders will meet home minister Amit Shah in Parliament tomorrow at 3.45 pm on AFSPA issue in the wake of anti-insurgency operation that went awry in Nagaland's Mon, ANI reportedChile approves same-sex marriage bill, reports AFP#BREAKING Chile congress approves same-sex marriage bill pic.twitter.com/MpXRqjwj7ZSame-sex marriage bill approved in ChileNot more severe than Delta: FauciOmicron Covid variant 'almost certainly' not more severe than Delta, reports AFP quoting top US scientist FauciCong to meet kin of deceased civilians killed in Nagaland anti-insurgency operation tomorrowCongress delegation will visit Nagaland tomorrow to meet the families of those who died in an anti-insurgency operation that went awry in the Mon district on Saturday,  Congress MP Gaurav Gogoi told news agency ANI. Former Royal Guard of Saudi Arabia allegedly involved in Khashoggi murder arrested One of the suspected killers of Saudi journalist Jamal Khashoggi was arrested at an airport in Paris, reports Reuters. Biden-Putin virtual summit beginsVirtual summit between Putin and Biden begins, reports AFP citing Russian news agencies12 foreign returnees untraceable in ThaneMaharashtra | 12 recent foreign returnees are untraceable in Thane district's Kalyan Dombivli Municipal Corporation area, an official of the Municipal Corporation said.Maharashtra's Thane district reports 12 recent foreign returnees are untraceable. Bengal CM asks police to keep an eye on BSFNagaland firing: West Bengal CM Mamata Banerjee asks police in districts that share borders with neighbouring countries to keep a watch on activities of BSFMamata Banerjee's order was directed at police officials serving in districts which share borders with adjoining districts. Explosion in KabulAn explosion occurred in Kabul?s Police District 2 this afternoon, reports TOLOnews quoting Interior Ministry spokesman Saeed KhostiNews agencies reported an explosion in Kabul's police district 2 on Tuesday afternoon. VL-SRSAM test fired successfully The Defence Research and Development Organisation (DRDO) officials said that India has successfully test-fired the Vertically Launched Short Range Surface to Air Missile (VL-SRSAM) from off the coast of Odisha. pic.twitter.com/4Sjpv3XyiMThe DRDO conducted the test-firing off the Odisha coast. Congress interim prez to address parliamentary meetCongress interim president Sonia Gandhi to address parliamentary party meeting tomorrow in Central Hall of the Parliament. pic.twitter.com/8fvNJQ0ldrSonia Gandhi will address the meet in Parliament's Central Hall in TuesdayFormer Aircel promoter not granted diplomatic immunityThe Supreme Court on Tuesday rejected the plea filed by former Aircel promoter C Sivasankaran who sought diplomatic immunity against prosecution by the central bureau of investigation (CBI) in a pending criminal case against him.38 killed, 69 seriously injured in Burundi prison fire38 killed, 69 seriously injured in Burundi prison fire, reports AFP citing nation's vice presidentFarm unions' decision on protest withdrawal on Dec 8SKM’s meeting inconclusive, farm unions to meet at 2pm on Dec 8 to decide on withdrawing protests.Farm leaders says SKM meeting adjournedSKM’s meeting has been adjourned and likely to continue tomorrowStubble burning, farmers to be out of purview of NCR anti-pollution lawCentre agrees to take farmers and stubble burning out of the purview of NCR anti-pollution law, people familiar with the developments told HT. They also said that electricity amendment bill that farmers are opposed to will be withdrawn. Haryana may withdraw all cases against farmersHaryana to withdraw all cases against farmers except a few cases related to rape and murder, people familiar with the developments told HTFarmers to take out victory marchFarmers likely to take out victory march on Dec 8 before returning home, people familiar with the developments told HTHaryana farmers demand withdrawal of casesHaryana farm leaders told the SKM leaders that the government should take back cases first, then they will call -off agitation while the Punjab unions wants to call-off stir immediately, said a farmer leader from Haryana attending the presser said. Farmer leaders to take part in a committee proposed by CentreSKM to take part in a committee proposed by Centre to resolve all outstanding issues with farmers, compensation for farmers likely. Protests likely to continue till concrete steps are takenPanama and Paradise Paper Leaks: Undisclosed credits amounting to ₹20,353 cr detectedGovt announces undisclosed credits amounting to ₹20,353 crore were detected with respect to 930 India-linked entities in Panama and Paradise Paper Leaks, reports PTICountering of Financing of Terrorism Cell (CFT Cell) formed by MHAGoI has formed Countering of Financing of Terrorism Cell (CFT Cell) in the Home Ministry for coordination on combating terror funding. A Terror Funding & Fake Currency Cell has also been formed in NIA to conduct focused probe into terror funding & fake currency cases: MoS Home pic.twitter.com/3TqBNkPVkUCFT Cell formed by the Union home ministryScindia takes stock of preparedness at airportsTook stock of the preparedness, testing capacities, and the situation on the ground with regard to crowd management at both private and @AAI_Official airports. Have put an action plan with 8 compliances on immigration queues, expanding RT-PCR service providers ...1/2 pic.twitter.com/vqhCgedZEOCivil aviation minister  Scindia takes stock of preparations amid Omicron spread. Delhi CM Kejriwal promises free education to children of SC communityAAP national convener and Delhi chief minister today announced four guarantees for SC community- free education to each child, free coaching for professional courses, free medical treatment for each member of the family, and financial assistance to those children who want to go abroad for graduation or post graduation. He repeated his guarantee of monthly payment of ₹1000 to all women above the age of 18Hornbill Festival called offNagaland government has called off the remaining three days of the ongoing 22nd edition of its iconic Hornbill Festival in solidarity with the Konyak community who lost 14 young men in the firing incidents in Mon district on December 4 and 5Rajinikanth and Sasikala meetExpelled AIADMK leader V K Sasikala meets Rajinikanth at his residence to congratulate him on receiving the Dadasaheb Palke award.RS adjourned for the dayRajya Sabha proceedings adjourned for the day as opposition demands of revocation of suspension of 12 MPs.Explosion rocks Iraq's Basra; 4 dead and 20 injuredBREAKING: A large explosion rocks the center of Iraq's southern city of Basra, with local news reports saying there are multiple casualties, likely from a car bomb. https://t.co/R1jYhO1zglA car bomb blast in southern Iraq's Basra caused multiple casualties. PDP chief Mehbooba Mufti says 'Gandhi's India turning into Godse's India'The former J-K CM was referring to the recent arrests of Kashmiri students who cheered for Pakistan during a recent tournament where both teams faced each other in UP. She said that there was a time when both sets of people praised both Pakistani and Indian cricket teams. Punjab Lok Congress chief meets Union ministerPunjab Lok Congress founder Captain Amarinder Singh at a luncheon meeting with Union minister and BJP in-charge for Punjab, Gajendra Singh Shekhawat at Mohinder Bagh, Siswan on Tuesday.Red caps mean red alert: PM attacks SPThe 'red caps' want to form govt to show leniency towards terrorists, to bring them out of jails. So always remember that the 'red caps' are red alert for UP - they are bells to danger: PM Narendra Modi in Gorakhpur pic.twitter.com/qA8Q7Nr7d5"The 'red caps' want to form government to show leniency towards terrorists, to bring them out of jails. So always remember that the 'red caps' are red alert for UP; they are bells to danger," Prime Minister Narendra Modi takes a swipe at Samajwadi Party at a rally in Gorakhpur.At Gorakhpur, PM attacks former UP govt for not allotting land for AIIMSPrevious governments didn't show interest in allotting land for AIIMS in Gorakhpur but this double-engine government completed two projects in timebound manner despite challenges presented by Covid, says PM ModiIn major shift, UAE moves to 4-and-half-day workweek from next yearThe United Arab Emirates is slashing its working week to four-and-a-half days and moving its weekend from Fridays and Saturdays to Saturdays and Sundays, reported news agency AFP.Akhilesh Yadav, Jayant Chaudhary hold joint rally in MeerutSP chief Akhilesh Yadav and RLD chief Jayant Chaudhary hold a joint rally in Meerut.#UPElections2022 pic.twitter.com/g1BUnQYJgRSamajwadi Party (SP) chief Akhilesh Yadav and Rashtriya Lok Dal (RLD) chief Jayant Chaudhary held a joint rally in Meerut on Tuesday.PM Modi inaugurates fertilizer plant, AIIMS building in Uttar Pradesh's GorakhpurPM Narendra Modi inaugurates development projects in Gorakhpur. Governor Anandiben Patel and CM Yogi Adityanath also present at the event. pic.twitter.com/v6bKidTzhlPrime Minister Narendra Modi on Tuesday inaugurated ambitious projects, including a fertiliser plant, worth over ₹9,600 crore in Uttar Pradesh's Gorakhpur ahead of the upcoming polls in the state. Governor Anandiben Patel and chief minister Yogi Adityanath were also present at the event.Bombay HC allows anticipatory bail to Nagpur resident for posting alleged defamatory content against NCP leadersThe Bombay High Court on Tuesday allowed an anticipatory bail to Nagpur resident Sameey Thakkar in a case registered by Thane Police for posting alleged defamatory content against NCP leaders, reported news agency ANI.China slams US diplomatic boycott of Olympics as 'ideological prejudice', reports AFPChina on Tuesday slammed the Biden administration for diplomatic boycott of Olympics, calling it an 'ideological prejudice', reported news agency AFP.Delhi court announces charges against Sajjan Kumar in connection with 1984 anti-Sikh riotA Delhi court on Tuesday announced charges for rioting, murder, dacoity etc under multiple sections of Indian Penal Code (IPC) against ex-Congress MP Sajjan Kumar, in connection with the murder of two Sikhs in Raj Nagar, Delhi.SC refutes NIA's appeal against Bombay HC order granting bail to Sudha Bharadwaj, Bhima-Koregaon activistThe Supreme Court on Tuesday dismissed the National Investigation Agency (NIA)'s plea challenging the Bombay High Court order of granting default bail to advocate-activist Sudha Bharadwaj, who was arrested in the Bhima Koregaon case.Rajya Sabha adjourned till 2pmThe Rajya Sabha has been adjourned till 2 pm on Tuesday amid the opposition's demand  to revoke the suspension of the 12 MPs.Covid-19 pandemic far from over: Army chief General MM NaravaneDelhi: MoS Defence Ajay Bhatt, CDS Gen Bipin Rawat and Army Chief Gen Manoj Mukund Naravane with the delegates of BIMSTEC taking part in the PANEX-21 exercise on disaster management. pic.twitter.com/6wxFUgYg44"The emergence of new variants and resurgence of cases suggest that the Covid-19 pandemic is far from over," news agency ANI quoted Army chief General Manoj Mukund Naravane as saying at a curtain raiser of PANEX-21.India reports 6,822 new Covid-19 cases, daily tally 17.8% lower than yesterdayIndia has reported reported 6,822 new cases and 220 deaths in the last 24 hours, according to the Union ministry of health and family welfare. With this, the active caseload stands at 95,014 (lowest in 554 days).At least 128.76 crore vaccine doses have been administered across the country so far.US announces diplomatic boycott of 2022 Winter Olympics in BeijingThe Biden administration announced on Monday that US officials will not attend the 2022 Winter Olympics in Beijing after China pledged unspecified “countermeasures” against any such diplomatic boycott. Read moreMumbai registers 2 more Omicron cases, national tally at 23Two people were found infected with the Omicron variant of the coronavirus in Mumbai and neither had any symptoms of the disease, authorities said on Monday. Read moreShutters of Kerala's Idukki dam opened after Tamil Nadu's Mullaperiyar moveThe Kerala government opened the shutters of the Cheruthoni dam in Idukki early on Tuesday to ease pressure after flow of water from the Mullaperiyar dam. The Tamil Nadu government opened nine gates of the grand old Mullaperiyar dam on Monday night in view of the rising water level in the reservoir. Read moreArvind Kejriwal to be in Punjab today for a day-long visitAhead of the upcoming Punjab assembly election, Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) chief and Delhi chief minister Arvind Kejriwal will on Tuesday pay a one-day visit to the state. Read morePM Modi to dedicate development projects in Gorakhpur todayPrime Minister Narendra Modi will on Tuesday dedicate multiple projects including an All India Institute Of Medical Science (AIIMS) and a fertiliser plant, to the people of Uttar Pradesh's Gorakhpur district. Read more||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/breaking-news-live-updates-december-7-2021-101638836610314.html
08-12-2021||India||HTLS 2021 Inside the mind of India’s champs: Grit, guts, glory||Call it the afterglow of success, or firm belief in self, or a bit of both, but four months after India registered its best haul at the Olympics and Paralympics, the country’s medallists already have Paris 2024 in their sights.Bajrang Punia, Avani Lekhara, and Sumit Antil took the Hindustan Times Leadership Summit on a journey that was full of revelations, while being both refreshing and reassuring. They were unanimous in their assertion that the Tokyo success was a pit stop, and not the final destination, of their careers.“I am definitely not satisfied with my bronze. As an athlete, I can never let my guard down. I am targeting a gold in Paris, and if you ask any sportsperson irrespective of whether they won a medal in Tokyo or not, they’ll tell you they want to win a gold at the 2024 Games. This is a major shift in attitude,” said Punia, who beat Kazakhstan’s Daulet Niyazbekov to win a bronze in his maiden Games.Punia’s medal was the fourth consecutive Olympics when wrestling fetched a medal for the country, and the 27-year-old credited the consistency to Sushil Kumar, who ended India’s then 56-year wait for a wrestling medal when he claimed bronze at the Beijing Games in 2008.“The credit (for wrestling’s success) certainly goes to Sushil, because he broke the glass ceiling for a lot of us. He gave us the belief that we can emulate him. Now, we hope to do the same for the next generations,” the Sonepat-based wrestler said in a conversation with CNN-News18’s Shivani Gupta.While Punia had a role model in Sushil and a functional system that groomed him into one of the world’s best, the challenges for Lekhara and Antill were manifold and seemingly insurmountable.Lekhara, now 19, was paralysed form the waist down after a road accident in 2012. Bedridden for months, she was home schooled for two years, and it was on the insistence of her father that she tried her hand at shooting and archery.She made her international shooting debut in 2017. Her gold in the 10-metre air rifle standing SH1 event in Tokyo was the first instance of Lekhara topping the podium at an international event. She marked the occasion by equalling the world record (249.6) in the final.What made the success sweeter was that Lekhara had recovered from a bad start in the qualifications, and was seventh among the eight contenders when the final began. What’s more, she was not happy even after shooting gold, thanks to a 9.9 that she hit in her last competition shot.“I was not satisfied because my last shot wasn’t good, but when I saw the faces of my team members and family, it made me happy. This is my last junior year, and I wanted to end it with a Paralympic gold, a Paralympic record, a junior world record, and a world record. Luckily, I achieved all my goals!” Lekhara added.Four days later, she added another first to her kitty, when, by virtue of shooting a bronze in the 50m rifle 3 positions SH1 event, she became the only Indian woman to win multiple medals at the Paralympics.“I compete in four events, out of which 10m and 50m 3P are my favourites. I really wanted to win a medal in both. I knew I couldn’t have sat back after just one gold. And in some ways my bronze was even more satisfying than the gold,” she said.Unlike Lekhara, javelin thrower Antil had tasted international success before his Tokyo campaign. A reigning world record holder and a silver medallist at World Para Athletics Championships in 2019, he broke his own world record three times in a space of six attempts in the F64 category.The gold arrived with a monster throw of 68.55 metres, just hours after Lekhara became the first Indian woman to win a Paralympics gold.The 23-year-old was training to become a wrestler before a road accident turned his life around. Back in 2015, on his way back from his tuition classes, Antil’s motorbike was hit by a tractor from behind. The tractor crushed his left leg, and close to two months after the accident, he got a prosthetic leg.Life on prosthetics was not easy, but Antil, having bumped into Oscar ‘Blade Runner’ Pistorius’ videos, was determined to make a career in sports. The next challenge was to get used to the prosthetics.“As a para athlete, you can’t do certain basic exercises. I can’t do full squats on my artificial leg, so I had to look for alternate exercises to work out those muscles. Even today, I wake up in pain. Till the time the muscles don’t wake up, the amputated leg hurts; it is inevitable. People say, ‘Look, he has won a medal in just four years,’ but they don’t know what goes behind each success.I have been using my current prosthetic leg since March, and am still getting used to it.”Hurling a javelin on a prosthetic leg brought its own challenges. Antil could not use any power from the ground, meaning all his throws needed to be propelled by his sheer upper body strength.“Even in wrestling, our coaches trained us to use ground to our advantage. We learn to draw power from the ground, but I had completely lost that advantage.”However, the upper body strength accrued through rigourous grappling sessions meant he developed into a more-than-competent javelin thrower. He had the world record on his radar since the day he picked up a javelin.“The day I started out in javelin, I asked my coach what the current world record was. People were sceptical initially about my dream to break the then world record, which was around 59 metres, but I was always confident. Now, I have stretched the record by roughly 10 metres.“My goal is to shorten the gap between the able-bodied throwers and para throwers, although there is a world of difference between the two because throwers with leg amputations cannot draw any power from the ground. I’d still like to get close to 80 metres and will do my best to win another gold in Paris 2024,” Antil said.With a 19-medal haul at Para Games, Antil reckons that country’s budding para athletes may not be short of role models anymore.“I am happy that I am part of a change. Our success will hopefully inspire people who unfortunately meet with accidents and had to undergo amputations. Now, such people and young para athletes have heroes right in front of them, and I am happy to have played a part in this change,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/htls-2021-inside-the-mind-of-india-s-champs-grit-guts-glory-101638641599002.html
08-12-2021||India||HTLS 2021 Border tension reflects on ties: EAM on China||New Delhi: India and China cannot simultaneously have a “tense, high-friction border” and great relations in all other spheres, especially after Beijing violated clear cut commitments in two agreements on not massing forces on the frontier, external affairs minister S Jaishankar said on Thursday. Participating in a virtual conversation at the Hindustan Times Leadership Summit, Jaishankar listed India’s three top foreign policy priorities as focusing on countries in the extended neighbourhood, including Central and West Asia; good relations with big power shaping the world order to advance the country’s interests; and developing a larger footprint for India. Jaishankar, however, listed his number one priority as national security, which he put above all considerations in diplomacy. The challenges related to Afghanistan outlined in UN Security Council resolution 2593, which was passed two weeks after the Taliban takeover in mid-August, continue to be “live concerns” and justify the prudence displayed by India, which has been very careful in its assessments regarding the war-torn country, he said during a wide-ranging discussion. Jaishankar said two agreements with China contained no ambiguity on the issue of bringing forces to the border, as everything was laid down in “cold print”. He added, “There were very, very clear-cut commitments not to mass forces on the border and those commitments stand violated as of 2020 spring.”He was referring to the standoff in Ladakh sector of the Line of Actual Control (LAC), which began in May 2020. Bilateral relations are yet to recover from the fallout of a brutal clash at Galwan Valley in June last year that resulted in the death of 20 Indian soldiers and at least four Chinese troops. Both sides have deployed some 50,000 troops each in the sector and several rounds of diplomatic and military talks have not led to disengagement at all the friction points. Jaishankar said: “And as we have made clear – the state of the relationship, at the end of the day, will reflect the state of the border. You can’t have a tense, high friction border and have great relations in all other parts of life. It doesn’t work that way.” It was inevitable that the standoff had “already spilt over into other domains and the expectation that somehow we will contain it in a narrow sense and carry on with the rest of life, I think, is not a realistic one”, he added. “We do have a significant issue there for us and also for them because I frankly don’t think it’s in the interest of either country that our relationship goes off in this direction,” Jaishankar said in a session moderated by foreign affairs expert Pramit Pal Chaudhuri. The Chinese side attempted to “unilaterally change the status quo or to violate the LAC”, and troops from both sides were “sometimes uncomfortably closely deployed”. With the standoff in Ladakh continuing for close to two years, there are now question marks against the assumptions, understandings and agreements which guided the management of border areas, he added. Asked about his foreign policy priorities, the foreign secretary-turned-minister said in geographic terms, these are the extended neighbourhood, including the Indian Ocean, South-east Asia, West Asia and Central Asia, having good relations with the big powers which shape the global order “so that we are treated well and our interests are recognised and advanced”, and steadily developing a larger footprint through more relationships in order to have global visibility. NATIONAL SECURITY TRUMPS ALLIn terms of issues, Jaishankar put national security above diplomacy concerns, as the stakes are very high. He contended that the country had “sometimes got confused” on these issues, such as during the 1960s, when the leadership didn’t put the necessary emphasis on security. He listed the two other priorities in terms of issues as economic development and national progress, where India could learn from East and South-east Asia on using foreign policy to acquire capital and technology, and advancing the standing of the country. While speaking about the situation in Afghanistan, Jaishankar said UN Security Council resolution 2593 was an “expression of a widespread concern in the world on a set of issues, the most prominent of which was would Afghan soil be used by terrorists [and] foreign fighters to target other countries”. The resolution also addresses issues such as the nature of the regime in Kabul and whether it would be inclusive, and the nature of governance, including the treatment of women, children and minorities, and freedom of movement for Afghans. “I would say a lot of those concerns...remain live concerns,” Jaishankar said. The situation on the ground is complicated, and justifies the prudence that India has shown. India has not been in a hurry, it has been deliberative about choices and careful about assessments, while at the same time not being led by arguments made by others, he said. There is also consensus on the humanitarian situation in Afghanistan about not “staying away or being indifferent or unhelpful”. He said the consensus is that “however difficult the politics of the situation may be...we have to do something [for the Afghan people]”. India has helped previous regimes in Afghanistan, and it has offered to send 50,000 tonnes of wheat for the Afghan people. The country is seeking unhindered access to Afghanistan and trying to find a way the relief supplies are distributed in a responsible and fair manner, he said, without referring to conditions attached by Pakistan for the shipment of the aid. QUAD A SIGN OF CHANGING TIMESJaishankar also indicated that the LAC standoff with China was not a “causal factor” for India’s participation in the Quadrilateral Security Dialogue or Quad, which includes Australia, Japan and the US. He noted the Quad in its current incarnation started in September 2017, where the current difficulties on LAC began in 2020. It is important for India as a Quad participant “to be very clear that the Quad is for something, it is not against somebody”, he pointed out. Quad’s efforts are focused on issues such as Covid-19 vaccines, developing more trusted and secure technologies, promoting reliable and resilient supply chains, connectivity projects, and ensuring maritime security and safety. Since no single country can respond to the contemporary big challenges, groups of countries with similar interests and concerns were coming together, he said. In this context, he referred to India’s four-way cooperation with the United Arab Emirates, Israel and the US. These are “combos of countries” that are not interested in a formal relationship and wanting no “detailed obligations or responsibilities”. Instead, they want a practical arrangement to work together to their mutual advantage through “ad hoc, open minded, open ended and comfortable” mechanisms, Jaishankar said. Asked about India’s participation in The Summit of Democracy to be hosted by the US during December 9-10, Jaishankar said he is “very confident” about the state of Indian democracy since elections and the electoral process are not in doubt, popular participation in elections is rising, and all indexes of “how democratised India has become” are growing. “In a way, in the very success lies a problem because to a large extent it has brought to the political forefront a different set of players, people who are not from big cities or from English medium schools,” he said, adding many of these players are self-made and this has led to a “political argumentation between the old order and emerging order within the country”. “Because the world is globalised, the world is polarised and the world is very ideological, a lot of this translates into people being judgemental [and saying] your democracy is not working well, largely because it’s not about people like us anymore,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/htls-2021-border-tension-reflects-on-ties-eam-on-china-101638470802986.html
