09-12-2021||India||In Muzaffarpur’s health care tragedy, the eyes don’t have it||The hospital records get his name wrong -- Mushul Darzi instead of Mohammad Muslim Darzi. The one word they get right is crucial to his identity -- Darzi means tailor. He is 60 years old, from the village of Mahant Maniyari, 15km away from the district headquarters of Muzaffarpur. On November 22, Darzi was one of 65 people that came to the Muzaffarpur Eye Hospital for a cataract surgery. Since then, he has had purulent discharge and pain in his left eye, and now fears that he will lose his vision, and his livelihood. Two weeks later, his sewing machine lies in a corner of his one-room Indira Awaas home, quietly gathering dust.Darzi is not alone in his suffering. The eye camp at the hospital has left 30 people suffering from endophthalmitis, which is an inflammation of the eye caused by a bacterial infection from a botched cataract surgery. At least 15 of them have had to get one of their eyes “eviscerated”, which is the surgical removal of the eye’s contents, leaving the scleral shell and extraocular muscles intact. Darzi is one of those under medication -- he has both eyes, for now.“All I want to do now is to stay home and stitch clothes with whatever vision I have left. I need to earn money so my family can eat two square meals a day,” said Darzi, the sole regular bread earner of the family with a 58-year-old wife Aisha Khatoon, a differently abled son Mohhamad Jalaluddin, 34, who works occasionally at a private tent house, daughter-in-law Sabrunnisha, 30, and four grandchildren.The tragedy in the last week of November has put the spotlight on Bihar’s health care apparatus, with ill-equipped government structures, a burgeoning private sector that is openly flouting norms of safety and care, and patients such as Darzi who are caught in between, often with dire consequences.At 77.6%, the share of households that do not use a government facility when sick was the second highest in Bihar -- it was the highest in Uttar Pradesh -- at the time of the 2015-16 National Family Health Survey. 60% of people who did not use government facilities reported ‘poor quality of care’ as a reason, the biggest reason for the state among five options given to respondents.TRUST DEFICITImmediately after the events in Muzaffarpur, the Bihar government offered Darzi and the other victims of endophthalmitis free treatment at the Indira Gandhi Institute of Medical Sciences (IGIMS), a multi-discipline super specialty government health care centre in Patna. The risk to his eye and livelihood notwithstanding, Darzi does not want to go to a government centre. He does not believe he will come out alive.“I know any further delay can lead to loss of vision in one eye, but I am not going to any government health care centre where they may take out my eye, or anything else can happen. I am not sure if I will return. I have a responsibility to marry my granddaughter Roshan Khatoon, who has turned 17 years of age,” said Darzi.The fear comes from lived experience. The first time Darzi went to a heath care facility for treatment to his eye, it was a private institution, Lahan Eye Centre at Harisabha Chowk in Muzaffarpur in May 2020. The procedure, on his right eye, went smoothly but cost him ₹11,000. But Covid had hit business, and when Darzi wanted another cataract procedure, this time on his left eye, he went to what he believed was a “semi-government” centre.He had two reasons to believe that the Muzaffarpur Eye Hospital had government linkages. First, its website mentions the Tirhut divisional commissioner as the president of the hospital’s managing committee. Second, the government, until recently, reimbursed the hospital ₹2,000 for every cataract surgery done free of cost under the National Programme for Control of Blindness and Visual Impairment (NPCBVI) before the pact ended in March this year.In truth, the Muzaffarpur Eye Hospital was founded by Sant Shree Biragi Baba as a charitable institution in 1973 under the Societies Registration Act, and the hospital is managed by a committee headed by the commissioner of the Tirhut division as ex-officio president.On November 22, Darzi was charged only ₹50 for registration, and ₹30 for a blood sugar investigation. In less than a week, however, he and 30 others were battling for their eyesight.GOVERNMENT ACTION The government ordered the closure of the hospital OT on December 4, lodged an FIR against the hospital management, including the doctor who operated on the patients, and instituted government inquiries. The police complaint names 14 accused, but no arrests have been made yet.The government also instructed all districts on December 2 to refer those facing post-operation complications to IGIMS for further treatment. “We sent patient lists to districts and advised civil surgeons of Muzaffarpur, East Champaran, West Champaran, Sheohar and Samastipur, to track the patients and promptly refer them to the IGIMS for free medical treatment, in case of any complications,” said Sanjay Kumar Singh, executive director of the State Health Society, Bihar.A government inquiry report, dated December 2, by a four-member district level committee headed by additional chief medical officer Dr Subhash Singh said that the cataract operations “prima facie” pointed to medical negligence. A subsequent swab culture report on December 3, a copy of which is with HT, isolated the presence of “Gram Negative bacilli (pseudomonas aeruginosa)”, indicating that the outbreak was linked to improper sterilisation of the OT, said a doctor at Muzaffarpur’s Sri Krishna Medical College Hospital (SKMCH), requesting anonymity. Based on the microbiology report, the committee in its final report to the civil surgeon on December 6, gave a clean chit to the operating surgeon and concluded that infected equipment in the operation theatre was the source of infection. HT has a copy of the inquiry report.The doctor conducting the surgeries, however, also broke protocol with the number of surgeries conducted in a day -- as high as 65. “As per the national guideline for doing eye camp surgeries, a doctor should not do more than 25-30 surgeries in a day,” said Dr Rajvardhan Azad, former chief of the Rajendra Prasad Centre, AIIMS, New Delhi.The inquiry headed by Dr Harish Chandra Ojha also found that there were no tiles inside the walls of OT, an important prerequisite, and that the hospital did not have any regular doctors on its rolls, and engaged doctors on a daily basis depending on the caseload at the eye camps. When patients returned to the hospital with complications in their eyes a couple of days after the cataract surgery, an optometrist examined the patients in the absence of regular doctors, the inquiry report said.Efforts to reach Tirhut divisional commissioner Mihir Kumar Singh were unsuccessful. While one of his official numbers was switched off, the other number, mentioned on the website of the Muzaffarpur district administration website, said: “Incoming call facility to the dialled number is currently not available.” HT also tried to reach the doctor that conducted the operations, but he was unavailable for comment as well.FAILING HEALTH CAREIt is not without reason that Darzi prefers a private centre for treatment. Just a kilometre away from Darzi’s residence is the additional primary health centre (APHC) at Mahant Maniyari village. The outdoor patient department (OPD) and in-patient department (IPD) facilities there are non-existent. Since the incident, an optometrist from a private hospital comes for around 90 minutes to check the vision of patients once a week.All the APHC has in the name of equipment are two weighing scales — one for adults and another for infants. It has all of 30 medicines, mostly antibiotics, pain killers and paracetamol tablets in its formulary. Despite the posting of three general duty medical officers, Dr Pooja Singh was the lone medical officer present around noon on December 4, when this reporter visited the two-room APHC. What was earlier the operation theatre (OT) of the Mahant Maniyari Darshan Das Hospital, a private health facility, which now houses the government APHC, is a junkyard. The ward where patients were once admitted is now a storehouse of wheat, cattle fodder, and hay.“The OT existed between 1982 and 1989-90. Doctors of SKMCH used to come to do post-mortem examination and surgery,” said Anand Gaurav, a local resident.The district hospital in Muzaffarpur, 15km away, is only a shade better. There is an OPD for eye patients, but no IPD. It is among 16 of 36 district hospitals in Bihar that does not have an operation theatre for eye surgeries, according to the state programme officer for blindness control Dr Harish Chandra Ojha.What passes off as equipment is a chart to check for vision, and a torch. The ophthalmoscope has not been functional for the last two years. It does not have basic tools such as an autorefractor which is a microscope used during eye examinations. The hospital does not have an OT even for minor surgical procedures either.In terms of manpower, it has only two doctors. Dr Nitu Kumari is a specialist eye surgeon, and Dr Vaidhehi Kumari is an MBBS with a one-year diploma in ophthalmology. In the absence of basic equipment, both are doing what is an optometrist’s job, the doctors admit. “We are in the process of making an eye OT and purchasing necessary equipment for management of eye complications at the district hospital. As of now, we refer all cases of cataract surgery to SKMCH,” said Dr Vinay Kumar Sharma, civil surgeon of Muzaffarpur.Despite being a tertiary care centre, SKMCH does not have the equipment for phacoemulsification or a Femto laser, which are advanced methods of doing cataract surgeries and require minimal incisions. At best, small incision cataract surgeries (SICS) are done at the hospital, said doctors at SKMCH, requesting anonymity.PRIVATE SECTOR PUSHGiven the poor infrastructure of government health care facilities, it is not surprising that private doctors and facilities, including NGOs, have conducted 95% of the total 67,224 cataract surgeries done in Bihar till October this year, as against a target of 345,600 surgeries as per the approved allocations under the National Health Mission for the financial year 2021-22.There are around 54 private facilities, including NGOs, empanelled with the government and eligible for reimbursement of ₹2,000 per cataract surgery under NPCBVI in Bihar.The Muzaffarpur Eye Hospital, which reported the botched cataract surgeries, was one such empanelled with the government till March 2021. The hospital performed 259,631 surgeries in its 48 years of existence, of which nearly 75% surgeries were through eye camps, says the hospital website.“The empanelment ended earlier this year. Moreover, the hospital did not take our permission before conducting the eye camp,” said Dr Sharma, the civil surgeon of Muzaffarpur.Experts want the state government to frame a common minimum standard for organising such camps. “The government should lay down the minimum infrastructure required in terms of manpower, infrastructure, material required, sterilisation of equipment, OT fumigation, etc. for organising eye camps,” said Dr Azad, who is the chairman of the Bihar State University Service Commission.He said that the government should constitute a high-power committee, comprising doctors and administrators, to check the quality of infrastructure before an eye camp. It should also be mandatory to take permission for eye camps from a district-level committee of doctors and administrators, he added.“The system of applying for permission to hold an eye camp should be online. The organiser should mention its track record and submit it online, along with a checklist of available infrastructure. The number of surgeries should be checked as well,” added Dr Azad.“We are examining the inquiry report threadbare and will try to put in place a system, having proper checks and balance, so that such incidents do not recur,” said Pratyaya Amrit, Bihar’s the state’s additional chief secretary, health.
09-12-2021||India||Sudha Bharadwaj walks out of prison after 3 years||Activist Sudha Bharadwaj walked out of jail around noon on Thursday after spending three years and three months in prison on charges of allegedly fomenting violence in Maharashtra’s Bhima Koregaon village in 2018. Byculla jail superintendent Yashwant Phad said that they received court papers ordering the release of Bharadwaj on Thursday morning. After due verification of the court orders and completing subsequent formalities, she was allowed to leave the jail premises at about 12.15 pm. Dressed in blue salwar-kurta, Bhardwaj stepped in a car waiting for her outside the jail and left. “It is the first crack in the wholly fabricated case and it will only get wider,” said Payoshi Roy, advocate for Bharadwaj. She declined to comment further on the release. “We are extremely happy at Sudha’s release. But the HC order 1.12.21 overlooked the default bail applications filed at the same time by her co-accused. So HC should take suo-moto notice in the constitution of life and liberty that her 8 co-accused too are entitled to default bail,” said Civil Rights Activists and lawyer, Susan Abhraham.On Wednesday, the special National Investigation Agency court in Mumbai ordered Bharadwaj released on A cash bail of ₹50,000. She was lodged in the Byculla women’s prison on charges of terrorism and conspiracy under the Indian Penal Code and the stringent Unlawful Activities (Prevention) Act. A day before, the Supreme Court dismissed appeal filed by the NIA challenging the Bombay high court’s December 1 order that granted default bail plea of the 60-year-old trade unionist and lawyer. It was not clear where she will stay because the NIA court restrained her from leaving its jurisdiction in Mumbai. Her lawyers refused to divulge the location where the activist will be residing during the pendency of the trial. She had asked the court for permission to go back to Chhattisgarh or Delhi, but the request was turned down.On December 1, the Bombay HC allowed default bail to Bharadwaj, underlining that a Pune sessions judge, who granted police a 90-day extension on November 26, 2018, to file the charge sheet, did not have jurisdiction to do so as only a special NIA court could hear UAPA cases. The HC pointed out that the Pune sessions court was not notified as a special court under the NIA Act. Also, there was already a special NIA court in existence in Pune at the relevant time, it had noted.Bharadwaj is the first person in the high-profile case to be granted default bail. The high court rejected the bail applications of eight co-accused, all of whom face terrorism and conspiracy charges under the UAPA. One of the other accused, poet Varavara Rao, is out on medical bail, and a second accused, Jesuit priest Stan Swamy, died in July.The activists are accused of delivering inflammatory speeches during an event called Elgar Parishad organised in Pune on December 31, 2017. The activists have denied all charges and accused the prosecution of planting evidence.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/sudha-bharadwaj-walks-out-of-prison-after-3-years-101639074579975.html
09-12-2021||India||Democratic principles should guide global governance: PM Modi||The principles of democracy should guide global governance and technology companies should contribute to preserving open and democratic societies, Prime Minister Narendra Modi said on Thursday at the Summit for Democracy hosted by US President Joe Biden. Modi made the remarks at a virtual leaders’ plenary session that was hosted by Biden and held behind closed doors, according to people familiar with the matter. The prime minister is participating in the two-day event at Biden’s invitation and the plenary session witnessed interventions from leaders of only 12 countries. Democratic spirit, including respect for rule of law and pluralistic ethos, is ingrained in Indians, and the Indian diaspora carries it too, contributing to the economic well-being and social harmony of their adopted homes, Modi told the session, according to the people cited above. “The prime minister stressed that principles of democracy should guide global governance, and given technology’s ability to impact democracy positively or negatively, technology companies should contribute to preserving open and democratic societies,” one of the people cited above said. Modi emphasised the need for democratic countries to deliver on values enshrined in their constitutions, and outlined sensitivity, accountability, participation and reform orientation as the four pillars of Indian democratic governance. He also recalled India’s Constituent Assembly had held its first session on this same day 75 years ago. He highlighted India’s civilisational ethos as one of the original sources of democracy. Biden is hosting the virtual summit for leaders from government, civil society and the private sector to focus on challenges and opportunities facing democracies worldwide. The summit will provide a platform to the leaders to announce individual and collective commitments, reforms and initiatives to defend democracy and human rights at home and abroad, according to the US state department. “As the world’s largest democracy, India has commended this innovative initiative. India has always stood ready to share its experiences with fellow democracies,” another person said on condition of anonymity. A second closed-door leaders’ plenary session was hosted on Thursday by European Commission President Ursula von der Leyen. Official interventions by leaders of numerous countries were also live streamed on the website of the Summit for Democracy. Modi will deliver India’s national statement on Friday. In his opening remarks at the summit, Biden highlighted the challenges being faced by democracy worldwide. “Democracy doesn’t happen by accident, we have to renew it with each generation. And this is an urgent matter on all our parts, in my view,” he said. “Because the data we are seeing is largely pointing in the wrong direction. Freedom House reports that 2020 marked the 15th consecutive year of global freedom in retreat. Another recent report from the International Institute of Democracy and Electoral Assistance noted more than half of all democracies have experienced a decline in at least one aspect of their democracy over the last 10 years, including the US,” he said. These trends are being exacerbated by global challenges that can be addressed by shared efforts, Biden said. Biden announced the establishment of the Presidential Initiative for Democratic Renewal, for which the US will provide $424.4 million in 2020. Under this initiative, the US with like-minded partners to defend and sustain democratic resilience. These efforts will focus on the five areas – supporting free and independent media, fighting corruption, bolstering democratic reformers, advancing technology for democracy, and defending free and fair elections and political processes. 
09-12-2021||India||Expert panel to meet over booster shot today||The national drugs regulator’s subject expert committee is likely to meet on Friday to consider the application of Serum Institute of India , to use its Covishield vaccine as a booster dose, and an application from Dr Reddy’s Laboratories, for a Phase 3- trial to evaluate the Sputnik-V vaccine’s efficacy as a booster, people familiar with the matter said on condition of anonymity.“When the subject expert committee meets, the applicants are provided an opportunity to present their case; there may not be a decision on it just as yet,” an official aware of the matter said on condition of anonymity. The meeting comes even as preliminary data on the Omicron variant of the SARS-CoV-2 virus shows a reduction in the quantum of antibodies produced, suggesting the need for a booster – although the strength of an immune reaction depends not just on antibodies but also on T-cells. Dr Reddy’s Laboratories, which has a partnership with RDIF, for Suptnik-V, has sought permission from the Central Drugs Standard Control Organisation (CDSCO) to conduct a phase-3 clinical trial to evaluate the efficacy and safety of Sputnik Light vaccine as a booster dose. Earlier, Serum Institute of India sought approval for Covishield as a booster dose from India’s drugs regulator citing adequate stock of the vaccine in the country and a demand for a booster shot due to the emergence of new coronavirus variants. In its application, the companythat the United Kingdom’s Medicines and Healthcare products Regulatory Agency has already approved the booster dose of AstraZeneca ChAdOx1 nCoV-19 vaccine. Covishield is the India-made version of this vaccine. Serum Institute of India, as part of its partnership deal with RDIF, will also be manufacturing Sputnik Light in India. The World Health Organisation’s Strategic Advisory Group of Experts (SAGE) that met on Tuesday to evaluate the need for a booster dose against Covid-19, also recommended that people who are immunocompromised or have received an inactivated vaccine should be prioritized to receive a booster dose.The chairman, SAGE, Alejandro Cravioto, said in a briefing on Thursday that emerging data showed Covid-19 vaccine efficacy against Covid-19 wanes over time, especially among the older population group.India’s expert panel on immunisation, National Technical Advisory Group on Immunisation (NTAGI), is currently deliberating the issue of allowing booster dose in the national immunization programme.“The decision will take place based on the scientific evidence before the panel and what they recommend,” a senior government official said on condition of anonymity.
09-12-2021||India||Reopening of Guj riots probe to affect trial in cases already decided: SIT to SC||Any attempt to reopen the “larger conspiracy” probe into the 2002 Gujarat riots will affect trials in cases already decided, and impact appeals pending before the higher courts, the special investigation team (SIT) told the Supreme Court on Thursday as the top court reserved its judgment challenging a closure report in which the SIT gave a clean chit to 63 people. One of the people exonerated was Prime Minister Narendra Modi, who was then the chief minister of Gujarat.The SIT, represented by senior advocate Mukul Rohatgi said, “If this court is to direct the magistrate to again start off the complaint, imagine what impact it will have on the trial and appeals pending in Supreme Court and Gujarat high court. People will have to be retried and convictions will have to be set aside.”Rohatgi was responding to a petition -- filed by Zakia Jafri, the widow of slain Congress MP Ahsan Jafri, and social activist Teesta Setalvad -- accusing the SIT of not probing evidence into an alleged larger conspiracy involving politicians, bureaucrats, police officials, public prosecutors, and members of religious outfits. Jafri made a complaint in this regard in 2006, and the Supreme Court directed the SIT to examine the allegations. In February 2012, the SIT filed a closure report on the complaint that was challenged by the petitioners.Reserving orders on the petition after a hearing that extended for 14 days, a bench of justices AM Khanwilkar, Dinesh Maheshwari and CT Ravikumar allowed the parties to file any additional notes within a week.Rohatgi said, “What does the petitioner think SIT is? I do not go around with a farmaan (diktat) arresting people. To say I should have arrested those named in the sting tapes (run by Tehelka magazine at the time) is completely unfounded. What is the probative value of these tapes is a different thing. But in the eyes of law, it is only an extra-judicial confession... The trump card of the sting (operation) has actually no sting in it.”Out of the 18 persons named in the sting tapes, the SIT took statements of 13 persons, and the material contained in the sting was found to be unreliable, Rohatgi added.He also alleged that the petitioner conveniently chose to add the names of some accused and deleted some by relying on subsequent statements, which resulted in 50 names being added to the original complaint containing 63 names. The SIT also accused the petitioner of presenting a “doctored” copy of the original complaint in the Supreme Court and said, “They have not replied to the doctoring of complaint. If this is not answered, they cannot get a hearing in this court.”Senior advocate Kapil Sibal, appearing for the petitioners, said that the SIT has made several new disclosures before the top court that were not made before the Gujarat high court, which had dismissed Jafri’s petition in October 2017.Over 1000 people were killed in the 2002 communal riots in Gujarat, according to a statement issued by the Central government to Parliament in May 2005.The court did not indicate when a verdict will be delivered.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/reopening-of-gujarat-riots-probe-will-affect-trial-in-cases-already-decided-sit-to-supreme-court-101639073619469.html
09-12-2021||India||PM leads last respects as India mourns its soldiers, their chief||: Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Thursday paid his last respects to the 13 people killed in a Mi-17V5 helicopter crash near Coonoor a day earlier --- including chief of defence staff General Bipin Rawat, his wife Madhulika Raje Singh Rawat, and his defence assistant Brigadier LS Lidder --- after an Indian Air Force C-130J special operations aircraft flew their mortal remains from Sulur to the Palam air base in Delhi, in a sombre ceremony attended by the close relatives of those who perished, defence minister Rajnath Singh, national security adviser Ajit Doval, and the three service chiefs. The PM arrived at the Palam technical area shortly before 9pm, paid floral tributes on each of the 13 coffins with folded hands and a bowed head and interacted with the kin of the deceased, including Rawat’s daughters Kritika and Tarini. The sole survivor of the crash, Group Captain Varun Singh, is battling for his life at a military hospital in Bengaluru. Earlier in the day, defence minister Rajnath Singh told Parliament that a top three-star officer is heading an inquiry into the crash. The chopper took off from the Sulur air base at 11.48am and lost contact with the air traffic control (ATC) at Sulur at 12.08pm, seven minutes before it was scheduled to land in Wellington. Rawat was on a visit to the prestigious Defence Services Staff College (DSSC) at Wellington to address the faculty and student officers there. The last rites of Rawat, Madhulika and Lidder will be performed at the Brar Square in Delhi Cantonment on Friday. The schedule for the last rites of the remaining nine people has not been finalised yet as the “process for positive identification of their mortal remains is still on”, a senior officer said. “Their mortal remains will be kept at the mortuary of Army Base Hospital till the completion of positive identification formalities,” the officer said, adding appropriate military funerals of all deceased are being planned in consultation with their family members. The Coonoor crash is of one of the worst air accidents involving India’s top military brass, and a setback to the ongoing military reforms in the country, the biggest since Independence. Rawat was spearheading the military’s theaterisation drive to enhance the effectiveness of the armed forces and reshape the conduct of future operations. He took over as the CDS on December 31, 2019, after serving as the army chief for a full three-year term. He held the four-star rank for almost five years. Rawat survived a Cheetah crash in Dimapur in February 3, 2015. He was a lieutenant general at that time. PROBE BEGINSThe tri-service inquiry into the crash under Air Marshal Manavendra Singh has already begun its work, Rajnath told Parliament. Air Marshal Manavendra Singh is the Air Officer Commanding-in-Chief of the IAF’s Training Command in Bengaluru. “With profound grief and heavy heart, I stand to convey the unfortunate news of the crash of the military helicopter in the noon of December 8, 2021, with India’s first Chief of Defence Staff, Gen Bipin Rawat onboard,” Singh said. In his statement, the defence minister gave out the timeline of the developments before the crash. The helicopter took off from Sulur at 11:48am and was expected to land at Wellington by 12:15pm but the ATC at Sulur lost contact with the helicopter at 12:08pm, he said. After the crash, the minister said some locals spotted a fire in the forest near Coonoor and rushed to the spot where they sighted the helicopter’s wreckage engulfed in flames. Rescue teams from the local administration reached the site and attempted to recover the survivors from the crash site, he said. “All those recovered from the wreckage were rushed to the Military Hospital, Wellington. Out of the total 14 persons onboard the ill-fated helicopter, 13 succumbed to their injuries,” he said, reading out the names of all the people killed in the crash --- the CDS, Madhulika Rawat, Brig Lidder, Lt Col Harjinder Singh, Wing Commander Prithvi Singh Chauhan (pilot), Squadron Leader Kuldeep Singh (co-pilot), Junior Warrant Officers Rana Pratap Das and Arakkal Pradeep, Havildar Satpal Rai, Naik Gursewak Singh, Naik Jitendra Kumar, Lance Naik Vivek Kumar and Lance Naik B Sai Teja. The minister said Group Captain Varun Singh was on life support at the Military Hospital in Wellington and all efforts are being made to save him. The group captain was moved to the IAF Command Hospital in Bengaluru later in the day. The CDS will be cremated with full military honours, the minister said. “I, on behalf of the august House, pay homage to the deceased persons and express condolences to the bereaved families,” said an emotional Singh.
09-12-2021||India||India extends international flight ban till January end amid Omicron scare||India has extended its international flight restrictions till January 2022, amid concerns over the Omricon variant of the coronavirus, according to a circular issued on Thursday by the Directorate General of Civil Aviation (DGCA).Regular operations of all international flights were to resume from December 15 but were put “on hold” until further notice on December 1, as cases of the highly mutated Sars-CoV-2 variant started to emerge.“In a partial modification of circular dated 26-11-2021, the competent authority has decided to extend the suspension of Scheduled International commercial passenger services to/from India till 2359 hrs of 31st January 2022. This restriction shall not apply to international all-cargo operations and flights specifically approved by DGCA,” the circular said.“However, international scheduled flights may be allowed on selected routes by the competent authority on case to case basis,” it added.Scheduled international passenger services have been suspended since March 23, 2020, due to the Covid-19 pandemic. But special international flights have been operating under the Vande Bharat Mission since May 2020 and under bilateral air bubble arrangements since July 2020.India has air bubble pacts with 31 countries, including the US, UK, UAE and France. However, passengers arriving from 12 “at risk” regions (countries in Europe including the UK, South Africa, Brazil, Botswana, China, Ghana, Mauritius, New Zealand, Zimbabwe, Tanzania, Hong Kong, Israel) have to be mandatorily tested even after their arrivals, wait for their report at the airport and home quarantine for seven days if they test negative on arrival. These passengers are also asked to watch their health from the eighth till the 14th day.Singapore, which was part of the list, was removed on Thursday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/india-extends-international-flight-ban-till-january-end-amid-omicron-scare-101639073381027.html
09-12-2021||India||Calcutta HC quashes ‘hate speech’ charges against actor Mithun Chakraborty||Six months after the Kolkata Police booked him for allegedly inciting violence by repeating certain lines from the script of a popular action film while campaigning for the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) during the March-April Bengal assembly polls, actor Mithun Chakraborty on Thursday was pronounced innocent by a single judge bench of the Calcutta high court. Chakraborty, who joined the BJP on March 7, was virtually questioned by the police several times after a complaint was lodged on May 6 by Mrityunjay Pal, a Kolkata resident. Pal alleged that Chakraborty used a monologue from one of his popular Bengali movies in which his character described himself as a cobra whose bite could kill anyone. In June, Chakraborty moved the high court, seeking quashing of the charges. He was represented by seven lawyers headed by Mahesh Jethmalani. In Thursday’s order, Justice Kausik Chanda said: “Needless to mention that if allegations made in the first information report (FIR), even if taken at the face value do not, prima facie, constitute any offence justifying an investigation by the police, the High Court in the exercise of power under Section 482 of the Code of Criminal procedure, 1973, can quash the investigation to prevent the abuse of the process of law. The law in this regard has been settled by the judgment of the Supreme Court in a number of cases.” “I am of the view that since the petitioner does not deny the fact that he uttered the said dialogues and the context in which he said (the) dialogues were delivered is also not denied, any further police investigation of the present case will be an unnecessary and vexatious exercise,” said the order. Treated as an icon in Bengal, the former superstar of Hindi cinema joined the BJP at the party’s first election rally at Kolkata’s Brigade Parade Grounds where Prime Minister Narendra Modi addressed a mammoth crowd. He picked up the BJP flag from top leaders an hour before Modi arrived. Chakraborty used the controversial monologue in his speech on that day. It was heard again in the districts. Chakraborty campaigned extensively, leading as many as three roadshows on some days. The BJP allotted a chopper for him.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/calcutta-hc-quashes-hate-speech-charges-against-actor-mithun-chakraborty-101639073259892.html
09-12-2021||India||Retd brigadier says CDS Rawat's death will impact restructuring of armed forces||The death of chief of defence staff (CDS) General Bipin Rawat is a tragedy and going to lay an impact on the restructuring of India's armed forces, said a retired brigadier as he remembered the CDS as a very considerate and freely moving general.Brigadier (retired) V Mahalingan said he had met General Rawat, who died along with his wife Madhulika and 11 others belonging to the armed forces in a helicopter crash on Wednesday, several times.“My wife was teaching both of his daughters in the Army Public School. We have met several times…his demise is damaging and upsetting," Mahalingam was quoted as saying by news agency ANI.CDS Rawat was known for working towards tying the three services of the country - the Army, Navy and Air Force - into a digitised structure. Mahalingam said the late general was “very much involved” in the process.
09-12-2021||India||Sole survivor of Coonoor crash Group Captain Varun Singh battles for life||Group Captain Varun Singh, the sole survivor of the Mi-17 Coonoor crash in which 13 people including CDS General Bipin Rawat were killed, is battling for his life at a military hospital in Bengaluru, officials familiar with the matter said on Thursday. He is maintaining vital signs but remains critical, it is learnt. Singh was awarded a Shaurya Chakra for gallantry earlier this year for displaying outstanding courage and presence of mind while handling a rare mid-air emergency involving the light combat aircraft (LCA) he was flying last year. The decorated fighter pilot was moved from the Military Hospital at Wellington to the Indian Air Force Command Hospital in Bengaluru on Thursday, the officials said. Two doctors from the command hospital accompanied the group captain to Bengaluru. “My thoughts are with Gp Capt Varun Singh who has survived the tragic chopper crash. I pray for his speedy recovery and long life,” President Ram Nath Kovind wrote on Twitter. An inquiry has been ordered into the crash. President Kovind conferred Shaurya Chakra, India’s third-highest peacetime gallantry medal, on Singh four months ago. Singh was a wing commander at that time. On October 12, 2020, he was flying a test sortie in the LCA when an emergency developed due to the failure of cockpit pressurisation at high altitude. This was an unprecedented catastrophic failure that had never occurred.“There was rapid loss of altitude, with the aircraft pitching up and down viciously. Despite being in extreme physical and mental stress in an extreme life-threatening situation, he maintained exemplary composure and regained control of the aircraft, thereby exhibiting exceptional flying skills,” Singh’s citation said. “He displayed extraordinary courage and skill to safely land the fighter aircraft. The pilot went beyond the call of duty and landed the aircraft taking calculated risks. This allowed an accurate analysis of the fault on the indigenously designed fighter and further institution of preventive measures against recurrence,” it added. Singh wrote an emotional letter to the principal of his alma mater, Army Public School in Chandimandir, months before the accident, thanking the school and his teachers for their mentorship in his formative years which resulted in him receiving the Shaurya Chakra. “I credit this prestigious award to all those I have been associated with over the years in school, National Defence Academy and thereafter the Indian Air Force, as I firmly believe that my actions that day were a result of the grooming and mentoring by my teachers, instructors and peers over the years.” Varun wrote. “I was faced with a grave and critical failure in my aircraft. The standard operation procedure (SOP) required me to eject and abandon the aircraft. However, I took a few calculated risks and managed to land the aircraft without any damage to either the aircraft or civilians,” he wrote. He concluded his letter by writing an inspiring message for the children at school. He said he was a mediocre student in school but found his passion for aviation at a later stage. “It is ok to be mediocre… Whatever you work towards, be dedicated, do your best... Never lose hope, never think that you cannot be good at what you want to be,” Singh wrote. He added, “I was mediocre, and today I have reached difficult milestones in my career.” He wrote the letter on September 18.Singh is directing staff (air) at the Defence Services Staff College in Wellington. He wrote the letter in Wellington.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/sole-survivor-of-coonoor-crash-group-captain-varun-singh-battles-for-life-101639072722902.html
09-12-2021||India||‘Will be good if Congress, TMC approaches converge’: P Chidambaram in Goa||PANAJI: Senior Congress leader P Chidambaram on Thursday said it is important that all parties including Mamata Banerjee’s Trinamool Congress come together to take on the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP).The former home minister’s call for convergence in approach comes amid tension between the two opposition parties after the Trinamool Congress continued to poach leaders and legislators from the Congress in Haryana, Goa and Meghalaya to expand its footprint.At her meetings in Mumbai last month, she also floated the idea of an opposition front minus the Congress. “What is UPA? There is no UPA,” Banerjee told reporters after meeting Nationalist Congress Party (NCP) chief Sharad Pawar. The Congress brushed aside the remark, underlining that Banerjee didn’t have a locus standi to speak on UPA since she wasn’t a part of the grouping.Asked to respond to Banerjee’s multiple jabs at the Congress in recent weeks, Chidambaram said Banerjee was a friend of his and hoped the parties could come together.Also Read: Can the Trinamool Congress replace the Congress as the main opposition party?“She is a friend of mine. I have known her for over 20-25 years now. She has got a particular approach, we have an approach, it would be good for the country if the two approaches can converge,” said Chidambaram, also the Congress’s senior political observer for Goa said.Banerjee’s party has announced that it will contest the Goa elections and has been working to build alliances with local regional parties and civil society groups ahead of assembly elections early next year. Among those seen as a potential Trinamool ally was Goa Forward Party’s Vijay Sardesai. But Sardesai sprung a surprise on Banerjee’s party last week when he tweeted photos of his meeting with Congres leader Rahul Gandhi and pledged his party’s support for the Congress.Chidambaram said he felt that Shiv Sena MP Sanjay Raut’s statement that all the erstwhile UPA parties must come together again and Congress should take initiative is “the correct statement”.“I think he has made a very responsible statement. What he says is, we need a non-BJP opposition in the country and the Congress party must take the lead and bring together all the UPA parties. I think that is a very sensible statement. I fully agree with Sanjay Raut,” said Chidambaram, who is in the state to oversee the Congress’s electoral preparedness.Asked about the alliance between the Goa Forward Party and the Congress for the 2022 Assembly polls in the coastal state, Chidambaram said “The word alliance is used indiscriminately... So far, we had one party leader (GFP chief) Vijai Sardesai who came to Delhi and said, “in order to defeat the BJP, my party offers support to the Congress’. Rahul Gandhi said we accept the support. All other details have to be discussed further,” Chidambaram said.“We think that the Congress party is strong enough to defeat the BJP (in Goa). If other parties want to support the Congress, they are welcome to support the Congress. But the Congress party is strong enough to defeat the BJP in 2022,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/will-be-good-if-congress-tmc-approaches-converge-p-chidambaram-in-goa-101639072238659.html
09-12-2021||India||Hindu outfit members among group to forcibly enter Rohtak church over conversion claims||A group of people, including members of some Hindu outfits, reportedly entered a church in Haryana’s Rohtak district forcibly over reports of religious conversions. A senior government official said they had information that such events may have been underway, but when probed, nothing of the kind was found.Rohtak’s deputy commissioner, Captain Manoj Kumar, further said that police have been deployed as a precautionary measure, while a congregation that was being held without permission was removed.Asst Pastor of the Church says, "People come here out of devotion, just like any other place of worship. We never forced anyone to come here. Last evening SHO came & told us of a complaint. We gave all our info to the chowki incharge. SHO then came & inspected the situation here" pic.twitter.com/254zEzzTiI“We received a complaint that something like this might be happening. We probed and found nothing like that. We deployed cops as precautionary measures. There was a congregation for which no permission had been obtained. So, it was dispersed,” Kumar was quoted as saying by news agency ANI.The assistant pastor of the church said people visit the church out of devotion like any other place of worship and nobody is brought there forcibly. He added a day ago, the local station house officer (SHO) inspected the place and the church authorities submitted all information as sought."People come here out of devotion, just like any other place of worship. We never force anyone to come here. Last evening the SHO came and told us of a complaint. We gave all our information to the chowki in-charge. The SHO then came and inspected the situation here," he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/hindu-outfit-members-among-group-to-forcibly-enter-rohtak-church-101639069693320.html
09-12-2021||India||Coonoor crash 2nd high-profile accident involving Mi-17V5||The December 8 Mi-17V5 crash near Coonoor was the second high-profile accident involving the Indian Air Force’s latest helicopter inducted in 2012, and the air force currently operates around 145 such Russian-origin choppers that are known to be advanced, reliable and safe, IAF officials familiar with the matter said on Wednesday.The twin-engine Mi-17V5 is the latest version of Mi-17 helicopter operated by the IAF. India contracted a total of 151 Mi-17V5 helicopters from Russia in two separate deals. At least six Mi-17V5s have been lost in accidents since their induction began around a decade ago.On February 27, 2019, a day after the IAF bombed a terror base in Pakistan’s Balakot, an air force unit shot down a Mi-17V5 helicopter in friendly fire near Srinagar. The helicopter was shot down the day Pakistan launched its fighter jets to target Indian installations in Jammu and Kashmir in response to the Balakot airstrike.A surface-to-air missile brought down the utility helicopter, killing six IAF personnel on-board and a civilian on ground and raising questions about whether the ground crew, including air traffic controllers, had followed standard operating procedures.The IAF was on its highest alert levels that day as it expected Pakistan to respond to the unprecedented peace-time cross-border airstrike on a Jaish-e-Mohammed (JeM) terror camp in Balakot on February 26.The reliability of the Mi-17V5 helicopters cannot be doubted, said Air Chief Marshal Fali Major (retd), a former IAF chief and helicopter pilot. He had commissioned the first squadron of the air force’s older Mi-17 helicopters.“I have flown thousands of hours on the Mi-17 helicopters. Its latest version, the Mi-17V5, is a rugged, reliable and advanced platform. I have great respect for the helicopter. I am amazed how it went down. The inquiry ordered will look into every possible aspect of the crash,” the Major said. He said the Mi-17V5 had the best safety record in IAF service.Air Marshal Manavendra Singh, who is the Air Officer Commanding-in-Chief of the IAF’s Bengaluru-based Training Command, has logged close to 7,000 flying hours in his 39-year career and operated in challenging sectors such as Siachen, the North-east, Uttarakhand, the western sector and the Democratic Republic of Congo. He is one of the most competent officers in the IAF to head the tri-services inquiry, officials said.Developed by Russian Helicopters, the Mi-17V5 is designed to carry personnel, cargo and equipment. The Mi-17V5 can carry a load of around four tonne in a full cargo role. It can also insert assault forces behind the enemy lines, a role frequently demonstrated by the IAF during military exercises.The helicopter is equipped with modern avionics, a self-defence system and other advanced features that enhance its survivability. The Mi-17V5, which has an armoured cockpit, can be fitted with rockets, cannons and small arms for carrying out offensive roles. It has a service ceiling of 6,000 metre, top speed of 250 kmph and a maximum range of around 1,180 km with additional fuel tanks.“Any aircraft accident is shocking. The Mi-17V5 has a good flight safety record, it’s a reliable machine and pilots swear by it,” Air Vice Marshal Manmohan Bahadur (retd), former additional director general, Centre for Air Power Studies, said on Wednesday.The helicopter, capable of day and night missions in adverse weather conditions, has been extensively used in the Ladakh sector where India and China have been locked in a lingering border standoff since May 2020.
09-12-2021||India||RJD's Tejashwi Yadav gets married in low-key ceremony, Tej Pratap tweets pics||Rashtriya Janata Party (RJD) leader Tejashwi Yadav got married on Thursday in a secret ceremony at his family's farmhouse in New Delhi, tweets by his siblings revealed. Tejashwi, RJD supremo Lalu Yadav's younger son and Leader of Opposition in Bihar Legislative Assembly, tied the knot with Rachel Godinho in a low-key event very few had knowledge about till yesterday. Dozens of close friends and relatives, including Samajwadi Party chief Akhilesh Yadav, were present at the wedding. Akhilesh's and Tejashwi's families are related as Lalu Yadav's youngest daughter got married to Mulayam Singh Yadav's grandnephew in 2015."Blessings to "Arjun" for starting a new inning of life. May God bless this new couple with all the happiness of the world for life, I wish that," tweeted Tej Pratap, who likes to call himself and his brother as ‘Krishna-Arjun’ duo from Mahabharata, a major Sanskrit epic of ancient India.ज़िंदगी की नई पारी की शुरूआत के लिए “अर्जुन” को अथाह आशीर्वाद।भगवान इस नई जोड़ी को ताउम्र दुनिया की हर ख़ुशियों से नवाज़ें, ऐसी कामना करता हूँ। pic.twitter.com/yHXqOG7iJFIt was initially reported that Tejashwi will be getting engaged on Thursday but soon after reports of his wedding started trickling in as security was beefed up outside his Delhi residence. While speculations are rife about why Lalu's younger son got married in a low-key ceremony unlike his brother Tej Pratap, reports suggest the RJD leader wanted to avoid large gatherings looking at the ongoing coronavirus disease (Covid-19) pandemic situation in the country.Watch: Tejashwi Yadav, Rachel Godinho tie the knot; RJD leader’s sister shares wedding picsTejashwi's sister Rohini Acharya also tweeted several photographs from the wedding and wished the couple “a lifetime of happiness.” In the images tweeted by Acharya, Tejashwi and his bride can be seen participating in wedding rituals in the presence of their family members, including her mother and former Bihar chief minister Rabri Devi.हम नही है पास फिर भी मेरा आशीर्वाद है दोनो के साथ😘🤗 congratulations tutu nd Rachel 😘Wishing you both a lifetime of happiness!🌷🥂 pic.twitter.com/JF567vMqyLThe wedding was conducted as per Hindu rituals at Sainik Farms. Tejashwi's wife, Rachel, will reportedly now be known as Rajeshwari Yadav.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/rjds-tejashwi-yadav-gets-married-in-low-key-ceremony-tej-pratap-tweets-pics-101639063072682.html
09-12-2021||India||PM Modi pays floral tribute to CDS, his wife and other personnel at Palam air base||Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Thursday paid his last respects to chief of defence staff (CDS) General Bipin Rawat and others who died in an Indian Air Force (IAF) helicopter crash a day ago in Tamil Nadu’s Coonoor area. Mortal remains of the CDS, his wife Madhulika Rawat, Brig LS Lidder and other personnel who were killed in the mishap were brought to the Palam technical airport in Delhi from Sulur airbase in an IAF C-130J Super Hercules transport aircraft around 7:35pm. The PM paid floral tributes to all the 13 people at a special sombre event being held at the air base.Also read | CDS chopper crash turns spotlight on high-profile military air mishapsDefence minister Rajnath Singh, Army chief MM Naravane, Navy chief Admiral R Hari Kumar, Air chief Marshal AVR Chaudhari, defence secretary Ajay Kumar were among others who too paid their last respects to the CDS and others.  The defence minister met families of General Rawat and other armed forces personnel at the air base.Also read | 'Chopper crash severity making positive identification of mortal remains tough'A PTI report said heart-wrenching scenes were seen at the Palam airport as 13 caskets were lined up inside a hangar in presence of their family members.The Army said only three of the 13 bodies have been identified so far -- Gen Rawat and his wife, Madhulika Rawat and Brigadier LS Lidder. Officers said the bodies of those identified will be released to the families for last rites.The bodies of Gen Rawat and his wife will be kept at their 3 Kamaraj Marg residence for the general public to pay their final respects from 11am to 12:30pm on Friday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/pm-modi-pays-floral-tribute-to-cds-his-wife-and-other-personnel-101639063896482.html
09-12-2021||India||News updates from HT: Imran Khan says South Asia ‘hostage’ to Kashmir issue, and all the latest news||Here are today’s top news, analysis and opinion. Know all about the latest news and other news updates from Hindustan Times.South Asia hostage to Kashmir issue, India mistook peace overtures for weakness: Imran KhanThe whole of South Asia is hostage to the issue of Kashmir and Islamabad’s overtures for peace were mistaken by New Delhi as a sign of weakness, Pakistan Prime Minister Imran Khan said on Thursday. Read more…CDS Rawat’s chopper lost contact 7 minutes short of Wellington, black box foundThe Indian Air Force Mi-17V5 helicopter that crashed near Coonoor on Wednesday took off from the Sulur air base at 11.48 am with 14 people on board including chief of defence staff General Bipin Rawat and his wife Madhulika Raje Singh Rawat, and it was scheduled to land at the helipad at the Wellington golf course at 12.15 pm where a three-star general was waiting to receive them, officials familiar with the matter said on Thursday. Read more…‘Will retire together’: What CDS Gen Bipin Rawat told his PSO who wanted to quitA resident of Takdah area in the Darjeeling Hills, Havildar Satpal Rai, the 40-year-old personal security officer of General Bipin Rawat, had spoken to his wife twice before boarding the ill-fated helicopter that crashed in Coonoor on Wednesday. Read more…Fresh cases of bird flu detected in Kerala’s Alappuzha districtAn alert has been sounded in Alappuzha district in Kerala on Thursday after the state animal husbandry department confirmed bird flu (H5N1 influenza) in some samples sent to the National Institute of High Security Animal Diseases in Bhopal. Read more…‘Had requested Kohli to not step down in T20Is; he didn't agree': Ganguly breaks silence on India’s ODI captaincy switchThe Board of Control for Cricket in India on Wednesday confirmed Rohit Sharma as India's ODI captain. The Indian opener takes over the role from Virat Kohli and is likely to begin his tenure as ODI skipper in the series against South Africa in January. Read more…Katrina Kaif shares photos from wedding with Vicky Kaushal: ‘Only love Vicky Kaushal and Katrina Kaif are now husband and wife. They got married in an intimate ceremony at the Six Senses Fort Barwara in Rajasthan on Thursday. While the first pictures of them as newlyweds were shared online by paparazzo accounts, she has now posted pictures of the wedding on Instagram. Pics here||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/news-updates-from-ht-imran-khan-says-south-asia-hostage-to-kashmir-issue-and-all-the-latest-news-101639061644764.html
09-12-2021||India||HT This Day: Dec 10, 1971 – Navy deals more deadly blows||- Prized submarine Ghazi sunk- Another daring raid on Karachi port- Pak intrusions across Tawi nipped in bud- Dacca awaits its doomNew Delhi -The Indian Navy has had another field day. Hell bent on destroying the enemy’s naval might, it conducted two daring raids today in the Arabian Sea, one on the Makran coast near the Pakistan-Iran border and the other on the naval installations in Karachi harbour where, only few days ago, three Pakistani Destroyers were sent to the bottom of the sea.The sinking of the second and the biggest Pakistani submarine, the U.S. built ‘Ghazi’ off Visakhapatnam by Indian Destroyers on the night of Dec. 3, the day Pakistan declared war on India, was confirmed by the Eastern Naval Command on the basis of tell-tale, evidence -and the Defence Minister, Mr Jagjivan Ram, hastened to share the good news with cheering ‘members of the two Houses of Parliament.While details of the damage inflicted on the enemy by the Western fleet today are awaited four ships are believed to have been either sunk or heavily damaged. Karachi reports said that in one of their heaviest raids last night, the Indian Air Force sank one merchant ship and damaged two others in Karachi harbour.The myth of the impregnability of the Karachi naval base has thus been destroyed. As Vice Admiral Kohli, Flag Officer Commanding-in-Chief, Western Fleet stated: "The Indian Navy is in command of the high seas and we can go wherever we want. The entire coast of Pakistan right up to the border of Iran is now vulnerable to the guns of the Indian Naval ships.Having liberated the strategic inland river port of Chandpur on the Meghna, 64 kilometers south of Dacca and Daudkandi, about 33 kilometers east, the Indian Army is tightening the noose round the city. Combined columns of the Army and Mukti Bahini are now poised for a thrust towards the Bangla Desh Capital. A few rivers have to be crossed before the advancing forces contact the city's outer defences. The possibility of a last ditch battle by the fleeing enemy troops there is not ruled out.While Comilla town was freed yesterday, remnants of Pakistani troops were still in the Nainamati Cantonment, which is under siege with all escape routes plugged. Indian troops have also captured Ashugunj, east of Meghna in the north, and taken 300 razakars. The Army formations proceeding from Jessore have contacted the outer defences of Kushtia and are marching in the northern sector towards Rangpur and Dinajpur, where bitter fighting is reported. Another stronghold of the occupation forces, Chaudanga, has fallen. The advancing forces captured nearly 1,000 tonnes of ammunition near Jhaneda in the Jessore sector left behind by the retreating enemy. On the Western Front Indian troops eliminated the solitary surviving Pakistani post on the east bank of Mannawar Tawi in the Chhamb sector and established a screen of their own on the west bank. Thus, repeated enemy attempts to crash through our defences on the east bank have been frustrated. In the Kargil area, the Army repeated its 1965 performance by capturing a 13,620 feet high hill feature, the fifth in the line, ensuring the safety of the Srinagar-Leh road. In the Kutch sector, Nagarparker town in Hyderabad-Sind divis1on has fallen after a night-long battle. In mopping-up operations in the Jaisalmer sector, four Pak1stani Sherman tanks were found destroyed in an area 11 kilometers west of Longewala. In the Barmer sector, our troops are in contact with the enemy near Nayachor and are also proceeding towards Umarkot. Another enemy attack on Dera Babananak Bridge in the Amritsar sector has been repulsed. With the destruction of 73 aircraft, Pakistan Air Force has lost nearly one-fourth of its strength in the six days of war. Today, the IAF raided Pakistani airbases at Chander, Nawabshah. Jacobabad, and Hyderabad and also carried out interdiction and close support sorties in the Jaffarwal sector in the area opposite Samba, Nayachor and Chhamb sectors. The enemy aircraft attacked Srinagar, Pathankot and Amritsar airfield inflicting minor damage. A few villages in Kashmir and near Jullundur were bombed resulting in the death of many civilians. No Indian aircraft was lost in today's operations, but a Pakistani 7-104 fighter was knocked out of the skies at Okha port. Pakistani reports that the IAF had bombed civilian targets were officially denied here. Carrier-borne aircraft raided Barisal from where the retreating Pakistani troops are trying to escape. According to an agency reports the IAF sank nearly a hundred steamers, gun boats and motor boats carrying retreating enemy troops in the last 24 hours.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/ht-this-day-dec-10-1971-navy-deals-more-deadly-blows-101639063075050.html
09-12-2021||India||‘Will retire together’: What CDS Gen Bipin Rawat told his PSO who wanted to quit||A resident of Takdah area in the Darjeeling Hills, Havildar Satpal Rai, the 40-year-old personal security officer of General Bipin Rawat, had spoken to his wife twice before boarding the ill-fated helicopter that crashed in Coonoor on Wednesday.As a pall of gloom hung over Rai’s home at Katusay, where the havildar’s 80-year-old mother waited for his body, members of the family said Rai wanted to take early retirement.“Satpal wanted to take early retirement but General Rawat did not let him leave, saying they would retire together in 2024,” said Mandira Rai, the soldier’s wife.“He said he would call me again after reaching Wellington. It was Diwali when I saw him for the last time. When he came home he said he would retire and start a business. I have lost my husband but I am proud of him. He died for the country,” said Mandira Rai.The soldier’s father, Bahadur Singh Rai, was also in the army. Satpal’s brother, Bickal Rai, is also serving with the 5/11 Gorkha Rifles.Chief minister Mamata Banerjee wrote a long condolence message for the family.“I sincerely express my deepest condolence for the unfortunate and sudden demise of Late Havildar Satpal Rai at the age of only 40 years. Rai has dedicated his life to the motherland. The demise of this brave son of the hills is an irreparable loss. We will always remember the sacrifice of Bengal’s brave son Satpal Rai. I also express my heartfelt condolence to the kin of all other defence personnel who died in that tragic accident yesterday,” Banerjee said.S Poonambalam, district magistrate of Darjeeling, said “Rai’s mortal remains are expected to arrive at Bagdogra Airport on Friday afternoon.”Gautam Deb, a senior Trinamool Congress leader and former minister, met Rai’s family on Thursday afternoon.Raju Bista, the Bharatiya Janata Party Lok Sabha member from Darjeeling, offered his condolences.
09-12-2021||India||CDS Rawat’s chopper lost contact 7 minutes short of Wellington, black box found||NEW DELHI: The Indian Air Force Mi-17V5 helicopter that crashed near Coonoor on Wednesday took off from the Sulur air base at 11.48 am with 14 people on board including chief of defence staff General Bipin Rawat and his wife Madhulika Raje Singh Rawat, and it was scheduled to land at the helipad at the Wellington golf course at 12.15 pm where a three-star general was waiting to receive them, officials familiar with the matter said on Thursday.The air traffic control at Sulur, however, lost contact with the helicopter at 12.08 pm, 20 minutes after it took off, defence minister Rajnath Singh told Parliament on Thursday said in a statement on the one of India’s worst air mishaps that took the life of the country’s senior-most military commander. The helicopter was seven minutes from its destination.Gen Bipin Rawat was on a visit to the prestigious Defence Services Staff College (DSSC) at Wellington to address the faculty and student officers undergoing a one-year course there. The staff course at the tri-services institution is known to further career progression of young officers from the army, air force and the navy.WATCH: Air Force finds chopper black box, critical tech during crash cause probeDSSC commandant Lieutenant General Manmohan Jeet Singh Kahlon, who was commissioned in the armoured corps and has also flown army helicopters, and his staff were waiting at the helipad to receive Gen Bipin Rawat.There were tense moments at the Wellington helipad when the Russian-origin Mi-17V5 helicopter, a reliable flying machine, did not land at its scheduled time or even minutes later, the officials said.Also Read: ‘Will retire together’: What CDS Gen Bipin Rawat told his PSO who wanted to quitAt this point, it is not clear what went wrong with the helicopter in the final moments of the crash though the weather in the area where it went down did not have good visibility. A short video clip, shot by tourists in the area, captured the last moments.The video showed the low-flying helicopter penetrate dense mist over a hill. It did not capture the crash but the audio recorded a loud bang.A three-star IAF officer Air Marshal Manavendra Singh is heading the inquiry into the horrific crash. Union defence minister Rajnath Singh told Parliament that he has already begun work.A C-130J flew the mortal remains of the crash victims from Sulur to Palam on Thursday evening.Search crews on Thursday recovered the helicopter’s black box that could give vital clues about what went wrong. The black box, which consists of the flight data recorder (FDR) and the cockpit voice recorder (CVR), is a crash survivable unit.While the FDR records vital information including altitude, speed, vertical acceleration and other technical data including instrument readings, the CVR contains crew communications.The focus of the team investigating the crash will be on decrypting the black box data, a labourious exercise that could take days, the officials said.Accessing the data held in the black box will depend on its condition, said Air Chief Marshal Fali Major (retd), a former IAF chief and helicopter pilot.“If the black box is not damaged, decrypting it may not take much time. It could be done in a few days. But if it was damaged in the crash, the IAF may have to send it to Russia to decrypt the data and piece together what happened. It will give vital information on all technical parameters,” Major said.The IAF had to send the damaged black box of a C-130J special operations aircraft that crashed near Gwalior in March 2014 to the US as it did not have the means to retrieve the data within the country.Major cautioned against speculating on the reasons behind the helicopter crash, and said it is best to wait for the investigators to come out with their findings.The chopper was flown by Wing Commander PS Chauhan, the commanding officer of Sulur-based 109 Helicopter Unit, and his co-pilot Squadron Leader Kuldeep Singh. Chauhan was commissioned in the IAF in June 2002, while Chauhan joined service in June 2015. The other two IAF personnel on board were junior warrant officers Rana Pratap Das and A Pradeep, who had joined the air force in June 2006 and January 2004, respectively.
09-12-2021||India||Bodies of CDS Rawat, wife & others reach Delhi, PM Modi to pay tribute||Mortal remains of chief of defence staff (CDS) General Bipin Rawat, wife Madhulika and some other Army officials, killed in Wednesday's helicopter crash in Tamil Nadu, arrived in Delhi's Palam air base from Sulur in Coimbatore on Thursday evening.It was reported earlier that the severity of the IAF chopper crash near Coonoor in Tamil Nadu's Nilgiris district was making it difficult for the team concerned to positively identify the bodies of the 13 individuals who lost their lives in the crash. The Army, however, said the mortal remains of the CDS, his wife and Brigadier LS Lidder could be positively identified and the final rites would be performed as scheduled.Also Read | Bodies of CDS Rawat, his wife among four to be positively identified: ReportAccording to latest inputs by ANI, the process for positive identification of the mortal remains of 10 other Armed Forces personnel is underway. The report cited the Indian Army as saying that the mortal remains will remain at the mortuary of Army Base Hospital until formalities of positive identification are complete.Earlier in the day, defence minister Rajnath Singh briefed Parliament during the ongoing winter session and said the Centre has directed a tri-service probe into the IAF chopper crash. He also informed the two Houses that the crash occurred after the IAF helicopter lost control with the Sulur control room at Wednesday noon.Singh also said General Rawat's last rites will be conducted in Delhi on Thursday with full state honours.Here's a timeline of what can be expected from the last rites in Delhi:1. A ‘Shradhanjali ceremony’ is scheduled from 8.30pm onwards in Delhi, ANI reported citing the Indian Army.2. The mortal remains of CDS General Bipin Rawat, his wife Madhulika and Brig LS Lidder will be released to the next of kin for final religious rites as desired by their respective families. Their bodies will be handed over as positive identification of their remains was successful, the Army added.3. Prime Minister Narendra Modi is expected to pay tribute at around 9pm. He will be accompanied by Singh, NSA Ajit Doval, Union minister of state for defence Ajay Bhatt and three services chiefs. The tribute will be paid at the Palam Technical Area.4. CDS and Army Commander of Sri Lanka, General Shavendra Silva is expected to attend the last rites of CDS General Rawat.5. Lieutenant General Waker us-Zaman, principal staff officer of Bangladesh's Armed Forces Division, is going to be attending CDS Rawat's funeral in Delhi. He will reach the national capital via Doha, and will arrive at 8am on Friday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/bodies-of-cds-rawat-wife-others-reach-delhi-pm-modi-and-other-to-pay-their-t-101639058660518.html
09-12-2021||India||India postpones international flight operations till January 31||NEW DELHI: India on Thursday extended the bar on regular commercial international passenger flight services till January 31, 2022 in view of the threat from the Omicron variant of concern (VOC) of the coronavirus. The government initially notified that all scheduled passengers flights will resume from December 15 but later put the decision on hold due to rising concerns over the Omicron variant.A circular issued by the aviation regulator Directorate General of Civil Aviation (DGCA) on Thursday read said “the competent authority has decided to extend the suspension of scheduled International commercial passenger services to/from India till 2359hrs of 31st January, 2022”.The circular, however, said the international scheduled flights on selected routes may be allowed on case to case basis.These restrictions do not apply to international all-cargo operations and flight specifically approved by DGCA.Scheduled international passenger services have remained suspended in the country since March 23, 2020, when the country first went into lockdown due to the Covid-19 pandemicSpecial international flights, however, have been operating under the Vande Bharat Mission since May 2020 and under bilateral ‘air bubble’ arrangements with selected countries since July 2020.India has air-bubble pacts with 31 countries, including the US, UK, UAE and France.Passengers from ‘at risk’ countries (countries in Europe including The United Kingdom, South Africa, Brazil, Botswana, China, Ghana, Mauritius, New Zealand, Zimbabwe, Tanzania, Hong Kong, Israel) have to be mandatorily tested for Covid-19 after their arrivals and are allowed to go home after they test negative. They are required to stay in home quarantine for seven days and are also asked to keep a watch on their health from the eight day till the 14th day.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/india-postpones-international-flight-operations-till-january-31-101639059758553.html
09-12-2021||India||Fresh cases of bird flu detected in Kerala’s Alappuzha district||An alert has been sounded in Alappuzha district in Kerala on Thursday after the state animal husbandry department confirmed bird flu (H5N1 influenza) in some samples sent to the National Institute of High Security Animal Diseases in Bhopal. Many ducks and local birds perished in the district last week forcing authorities to rush samples to the Bhopal lab. Veterinary officials said culling of ducks will start in affected areas on Friday and farmers will be compensated according to government norms. “The government has instructed the district collector to take necessary measures,” said Animal Husbandry Minister J Cinchu Rani in the state capital. Endowed with many backwaters and water bodies, farmers rear ducks in the district and bird flu regularly hits the area. Migratory birds from other countries are reported to be the main carriers of the virus. In Alappuzha and neighbouring Kottayam, duck rearing is an important business and there is high demand for eggs and meat of the bird, normally priced higher than poultry. Bird flu, also known as Avian Flu, is a variety of influenza caused by air-borne virus in birds. It can spread to humans rarely and if it happens it can trigger person to person transmission, experts say. There are many varieties of viruses and H7N9 is considered dangerous among them, they say. According to the World Health Organization, there are many subtypes of the avian influenza virus and only some of them are dangerous for humans. Last year also the district reported the viral outbreak but it was localised and contained. In 2016, at least 5 lakh chicken and ducks were culled in Alappuzha and Pathanamthitta districts to control the outbreak. A highly contagious disease, experts say all rearing birds in the vicinity will have to be culled to contain the disease.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/fresh-cases-of-bird-flu-detected-in-kerala-s-alappuzha-district-101639057776721.html
09-12-2021||India||Farmers sing, dance at Delhi border after Centre's letter on agreed demands||Following the Centre's official letter to the protesting farmers, in which it accepted all their demands on Thursday, scenes of joy and merry erupted at the Singhu border in Delhi that separates the national capital from its neighbour Haryana.A video shared by news agency ANI showed a group of farmers dancing and singing to the tune of music being played in the background. Some of them were seen standing on the footboard of a tractor while grooving.In its letter, the Centre confirmed accepting all demands of the protesting farmers, including providing compensation to the families of victims who lost their lives during the year-long stir and withdrawing all protest-related cases, among others.#WATCH | Farmers celebrate at Singhu border following the announcement of suspension of their yr-long protest against farm laws & other related issuesToday they received a letter from Centre with promises of forming a committee on MSP &withdrawing cases against them immediately pic.twitter.com/e8TgOhX9X3The consensus was reached after the Samyukta Kisan Morcha (SKM), an umbrella body of around 40 farmers' unions, formed a five-member committee last week to hold talks with the government.The farmers' union have said that the protesting farmers will return to their homes from the Singhu border on December 11, before offering prayers at the Golden Temple in Amritsar on December 13.Also Read | At long last, farmers call off year-long protests as govt agrees to all demandsPrime Minister Narendra Modi on November 19 announced the repeal of three farm laws, which triggered massive protests in Delhi borders for a year. He also promised that the government will constitute a panel to work on a framework for minimum support price (MSP) for agricultural produce. Notably, continuance of MSP was also one of the demands of the agitating farmers that the Centre accepted on Thursday.The Farm Laws Repeal Bill, 2021, was tabled in both Houses of Parliament on the first day of the ongoing Winter Session on November 29, and following President Ram Nath Kovind's nod, its roll back process had commenced.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/farmers-sing-dance-at-delhi-border-after-centre-s-letter-on-agreed-demands-101639052087551.html
09-12-2021||India||Keeping up with UP | Of red caps, saffron flags, and colour-coded elections||A political observer in Varanasi said the topic of charcha (discussion) at every chaupal (square) today is “lal topi”( red cap), to which Prime Minister Narendra Modi gave the new nomenclature “red alert” at a rally in Gorakhpur on December 7.
09-12-2021||India||International flights to remain suspended till January 31, says DGCA amid Omicron concerns||The Directorate General of Civil Aviation (DGCA) said on Thursday that suspension of international commercial passenger services to and from India will remain suspended till January 31, 2022. The DGCA said the restriction shall not apply to international cargo operations and flights specifically approved by it.The order came amid rising concerns of the spread of the highly transmissible Omicron variant of the coronavirus disease in the country. The regulator issued a circular on Thursday, saying "The competent authority has decided to extend the suspension of scheduled international commercial passenger services to and from India till 2359 hours of January 31, 2022."Also read | Omicron: Singapore dropped from India's ‘at-risk’ nations list. Details hereThe central aviation body the new rule was in slight modification of its circular issued on November 26 that had allowed scheduled international flights to operate from December 15.“The matter has been reviewed and the competent authority has decided to resume the scheduled commercial international passenger services to/from India with effect from 15 December 2021,” the order had read.On December 1, the DGCA had decided to not go ahead with this order soon after Omicron cases were detected in the country.Also read | Omicron: Centre asks states, UTs to stay prepared for possible Covid surgeScheduled international passenger services have remained suspended in the country since March 23, 2020, in view of the spread of the Covid-19 pandemic. However, special international flights have been operating under the Vande Bharat Mission since May 2020 and under bilateral "air bubble" arrangements with selected countries since July 2020.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/international-flights-to-remain-suspended-till-january-31-says-dgca-101639055280931.html
09-12-2021||India||Locals, officers recall fond memories of Bipin Rawat’s tenure in Baramulla||In northern Kashmir’s Baramulla town, locals and officers who served alongside General Bipin Rawat recalled fond memories of his tenure as the General Officer in Command (GoC) of the division almost a decade ago.The Dagger division or 19 infantry division is one of the Indian Army’s strategic divisions that keeps an eye on the Line of Control (LoC) from Gulmarg to Nowgam sector. In 2012, General Rawat had served as the GoC of the division. During his tenure, he had developed friendship with many of the locals as well as police officers and administration officials. He was in touch with many of them after becoming the Army chief and later the CDS.Soon after Wednesday’s deadly air crash in Coonoor, many locals started sharing on social media photographs with CDS Rawat.“A sad day for our country. A gentleman officer and a courageous commander with mettle. Fond memories of him leading from the front. We would often see him at the forefront with joint teams of special forces in counterterror ops. The nation owes you gratitude for your selfless service. RIP, sir,” wrote Senior Superintendent of Police Imtiyaz Hussain, who shared a photo showing him along with General Rawat in Baramulla.Both the officers remained in touch until the tragic death of the CDS on Wednesday.Nisar Ahmad, a journalist from Binner village in Baramulla, had family relations with General Rawat. “I knew his family. His father, who was also a senior army officer in Baramulla, knew my father since the 1980s. General Rawat had attended my wedding in 2005 when he was sector commander and posted in Sopore,” said Nisar, adding that he was planning to meet him next week in New Delhi. “For me, he was a family friend. I will miss him.”Another young police officer from Baramulla, Sheikh Adil, shared a couple of photos that he had taken with the CDS. “In the passing away of General Bipin Rawat, the country has lost a great leader in uniform. It’s a colossal loss. Some fond memories,” Adil wrote as he shared the images.A former principal of Baramulla Degree College, Harbajan Singh Bali, posted a photograph of himself with the CDS that was taken during his spell in Baramulla.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/locals-officers-recall-fond-memories-of-bipin-rawat-s-tenure-in-baramulla-101639055376171.html
09-12-2021||India||Farm unions clinch deal with Centre, call off protests||The Union government and the Samyukt Kisan Morcha (SKM), a platform of farm unions, on Thursday reached a deal on a raft of demands that had sparked year-long protests by peasants in a major political challenge to the Modi regime. The SKM accepted a slew of proposals from the Centre, contained in a letter signed by Union agriculture secretary Sanjay Agrawal, towards resolving key agrarian issues raised by it. This paved the way for SKM to call off one of the largest demonstrations by farmers the country has seen in decades. The SKM will meet next on January 15, its leaders said. Protestors will take out victory processions from their camps on Delhi’s borders on December 11 on the way back to their villages, it was announced. The compromise between the Centre and protesting farm unions came after two days of back-channel negotiations that saw proposals being sent back and forth, and 11 rounds of tenuous negotiations that hit a deadlock on January 22, 2021. Tens of thousands of farmers had opposed three agricultural reform laws enacted by the Modi government in September 2020, hunkering down on highways across several states for nearly 14 months. Thousands had also set up virtual protest townships at five sites along Delhi’s borders, choking traffic. Prime Narendra Modi announced on November 19 that his government would abandon the contentious laws and Parliament repealed them on November 29. The scrapping of the laws created an opportunity for farmers to re-engage with the government. On December 7, the Centre had sent draft proposals to resolve the stand-off, to which the farm body proposed amendments. The SKM signed off on a final letter from the Centre on Thursday that contained key steps forward. “Today is victory day for farmers, who launched the biggest movement in the country after the freedom movement. Victory to those who feed the nation,” said Daljit Randhawa, a wheat-grower from Punjab’s Sangrur, who has been camping at a protest site on the outskirts of the national capital for months. The proposals contained in the letter from the agriculture secretary were unanimously accepted by the five-member team of farm leaders authorized to take decisions on behalf of the SKM. In the letter, the Centre said it would set up a committee mandated to “ensure how all farmers can get minimum support prices (MSP)”. It also assured that the current levels of federal procurement of farm produce at assured prices would not be pared. “This has allayed a major fear of farmers that the government could reduce or stop buying farm produce at MSP,” said Yogendra Yadav, the leader of Swaraj India, and a member of the SKM’s coordination committee. Farmers have demanded a law to guarantee minimum prices for 22-odd commodities. Distress selling of farm produce and price volatility in non-cereals have been a major gripe among cultivators. The Union government’s letter also stated that the governments of Uttar Pradesh, Uttarakhand, Himachal Pradesh, Madhya Pradesh and Haryana had agreed to withdraw all cases registered against farmers and their supporters during the course of their agitation with immediate effect, a major demand of the SKM. Cases against farmers registered by central law-enforcement agencies and in Union Territories as well as by Delhi police would also be withdrawn immediately, the Centre stated. According to SKM leaders, Haryana and Uttar Pradesh alone have pressed over 45,000 cases against farmers. Accepting another major demand, the Centre stated the Haryana and Uttar Pradesh governments would grant compensation to the families of nearly 700 farmers who died of heat, cold and exhaustion during the year-long sit-in demonstrations. The government also proposed that it would not move an amendment to India’s Electricity Act without consulting the SKM. The SKM has objected to certain provisions in the Electricity Amendment Bill 2020, saying the changes would increase energy costs for agriculturists. Farmers would also not be criminally liable for burning crop residue after harvests, a major cause of air pollution in the national capital. Peasants would be exempt from prosecution under Sections 15 and 15 of an anti-pollution law currently in force, the Centre said. During back-channel negotiations with the home ministry, the Centre however told SKM that it had no powers to exempt fines on farmers for stubble burning imposed by the Supreme Court. The farmers had also wanted the sacking and arrest of Union minister of home Ajay Mishra Teni. Teni’s son was arrested after a car owned by him rammed into farmers in Uttar Pradesh’s Lakhimpur Kheri. The SKM eventually didn’t pursue this. “The issue of investigation into Teni and his son is currently being monitored the Supreme Court. So, we have decided not to interfere in this,” said Shiv Kumar Kakkaji, one of the five members of the SKM empowered to take decisions. The Modi government’s move to address key issues of farmers come as the Bharatiya Janata Party prepared to fight crucial state polls, especially in Punjab and Uttar Pradesh, where farmers are an influential voting bloc. “It now remains to be seen how whether the government will deliver on assurances on MSP. If farmers are not satisfied, they are likely to restart their agitation. The farm laws were repealed because of farmers represent a significant political constituency and polls are due in states,” said Sudhir Panwar, who teaches political science at Lucknow University. 
09-12-2021||India||Omicron: Singapore dropped from India's ‘at-risk’ nations list. Details here||The Union health ministry on Thursday dropped Singapore from the list of ‘at-risk’ countries, which means travellers from the Southeast Asian nation will no longer require to follow additional measures upon arrival in India. The central government has been frequently updating the list in the wake of the spread of the Omicron variant first detected in South Africa. The government has announced several measures to contain the spread of Omicron.Travellers from countries 'at risk' have to compulsorily undergo RT-PCT testing post-arrival and have to home quarantine for seven days if the results are negative. They have to further take a re-test on the eighth day and monitor their health for the next seven days if the test results are negative again.In case the passengers test positive for Covid-19, the samples will be sent for genome testing and the patients will be admitted to a separate isolation facility. They will be treated as per the standard Covid protocol and discharged at the discretion of the physician if the genomic testing is negative for the Omicron variant.Here’s the list of ‘at-risk’ countries from where travellers would need to follow additional measures on arrival in India:1. Countries in Europe including The United Kingdom2. South Africa3. Brazil4. Botswana5. China6. Ghana7. Mauritius8. New Zealand9. Zimbabwe10. Tanzania11. Hong Kong12. IsraelIndia has so far reported 23 cases of Omicron variant, of which 17 cases were detected on Sunday after a cluster of nine Omicron infections emerged in Jaipur and seven in Maharashtra's Pune district.On Thursday, Union health secretary Rajesh Bhushan reviewed the public health preparedness to the Omicron variant and progress of vaccination with health secretaries of states and Union territories via video conferencing. He urged states and UTs to enhance testing and focus on surveillance to ensure early identification of the suspected Omicron cases for their prompt isolation and further clinical management.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/omicron-singapore-dropped-from-india-s-at-risk-nations-list-details-here-101639052570779.html
09-12-2021||India||TN Governor trolled for not attending wreath-laying ceremony in Wellington||Tamil Nadu Governor R N Ravi came under criticism on social media on Thursday for not travelling to the Nilgiris to pay his last respects to Chief of Defence Staff (CDS) General Bipin Rawat and 12 others who died in a helicopter crash and instead continuing with his scheduled programmes in Trichy.Pictures of the Governor who along with his wife were offering prayers at the famous Sri Ranganatha Swamy Temple in Srirangam triggered the controversy. However, the Raj Bhavan released photos and videos of the Governor laying a wreath and paying homage to a portrait of General Rawat in a ceremony at Bharathidasan University in Trichy on Thursday. Ravi is on a two-day visit to Trichy to participate in various events being organised by the Bharathidasan University.The Raj Bhavan on Wednesday released a statement of condolence from Ravi. “I express my sincere and heartfelt condolences to the bereaved family of General Bipin Rawat and families of the deceased defence personnel and pray to God so that their souls rest in peace,” the statement read.Twitter users drew comparisons with Tamilisai Soundararajan, the Governor of Telangana, who has additional charge as Lt Governor of Puducherry and who travelled to Wellington. The wreath-laying ceremony was held at the Madras Regimental Centre in Wellington.Chief Minister M K Stalin had rushed to Wellington along with senior bureaucrats and ministers on Wednesday evening after the chopper crash occurred around 12.20 pm. Stalin had joined the ceremony.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/tn-governor-trolled-for-not-attending-wreath-laying-ceremony-in-wellington-101639052076270.html
09-12-2021||India||Omicron: Centre asks states, UTs to stay prepared for possible Covid surge||Union health secretary Rajesh Bhushan held a review meeting with senior officials of states and Union territories on Thursday and urged them to ensure availability of adequate buffer stock of eight critical drugs used for treatment of the coronavirus disease (Covid-19). He also asked to make sure all hospitals are ready to deal with any possible surge in cases.The meeting was held in the wake of the detection of a number cases of the highly transmissible Omicron variant of the virus in India. Speaking to health secretaries and National Health Mission directors via video conference, Bhushan said all health facilities should have functional ventilators, PSA plants and oxygen concentrators.A statement issued by the health ministry said states were informed that many ventilators supplied by the Centre are still lying unpacked and unused at some field hospitals, with consumables not being procured and made available by the states."This needs to be reviewed immediately to ensure that all PSA oxygen plants, Oxygen concentrators and ventilators are installed and are functioning," it added.The five-fold strategy of test-track-treat-vaccinate-adherence to Covid-appropriate behaviour was highlighted as the mainstay of public health response strategy for effective and timely control and management of the pandemic.Union Health Secy today reviewed public health response to COVID-19 in light of the emergence of Omicron & progress of vaccination with States/UTs.He also urged the States to ensure to maintain adequate buffer stock for 8 critical drugs identified in clinical treatment COVID19. pic.twitter.com/a75hbhqXmqThe states and UTs were told to enhance testing and focus on surveillance to ensure early identification of suspected cases for prompt isolation and further clinical management. They were also asked to ensure the availability of RT-PCR testing facilities in all districts, the statement said."Districts reporting higher case positivity were alerted to monitor the case trajectory regularly, and to promptly dispatch positive samples to the mapped INSACOG labs for genomic sequencing," it said.Also read | Omicron strain 4.2 times more transmissible in its early stage than Delta: StudyClose monitoring of emerging hotspots/clusters, breakthrough and re-infection cases, and prompt investigation was discussed. It was re-emphasised that all contacts for positive patients are to be traced and tested according to protocol as quickly as possible, the statement said.Based on the information of travellers from 'at-risk' countries from the Air Suvidha portal, district-wise monitoring of international passengers who have tested negative on arrival with a focus on symptomatic cases was highlighted in the meeting.Keeping the winter season in mind, they were advised that the prevalence of influenza-like illness, severe acute respiratory infection and respiratory distress symptoms need to be closely monitored, the statement said.(With inputs from agencies)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/omicron-centre-asks-states-uts-to-stay-prepared-for-possible-covid-surge-101639048971462.html
09-12-2021||India||Bodies of CDS Rawat, his wife among four to be positively identified: Report||The mortal remains of four victims of the IAF chopper crash, including that of Chief of Defence Staff (CDS) General Bipin Rawat, his wife Madhulika Rawat and Brigadier LS Lidder, have been positively identified, news agency ANI reported on Thursday.Earlier it was reported that the severity of the crash that occurred on Wednesday noon near Coonoor in Tamil Nadu, leading to the death of 13 of 14 people on board the helicopter, was making it difficult to positively identify the bodies of the deceased persons.An Indian Army spokesperson told ANI that assistance of close family members of the victims is being taken for positive identification “in addition to scientific measures.” “All necessary assistance and support are being provided,” the spokesperson was quoted as saying.The bodies of all 13 victims of the crashed IAF have been transported in ambulances from Madras Regimental Centre in the Nilgiris district to the Sulur air base in Coimbatore. Earlier in the day, defence minister Rajnath Singh informed Parliament that CDS General Rawat’s last rites will be performed with full military honours, and the mortal remains of all 13 victims will be brought to Delhi by evening.IAF chief VR Chaudhuri has already left for the national capital from the Sulur air base. Along with Singh, Prime Minister Narendra Modi, National Security Advisor (NSA) Ajit Doval, Union minister of state for defence Ajay Bhatt and three services chiefs will pay tribute to CDS Rawat, his wife Madhulika, and 11 other Armed forces personnel at the Palam Technical Area on Thursday evening.According to latest updates by ANI, PM Modi will pay respects at around 9pm today, and the mortal remains of CDS Rawat and other Armed forces personnel will reach Delhi at around 8pm. Some family members of the personnel killed in Wednesday's incident will also be present.Also Read | IAF chopper crash: Blackbox retrieved; clue for last-minute cockpit conversationMeanwhile, Singh said that the Centre has directed a tri-service inquiry to be conducted into the IAF chopper crash. The probe team will be led by Air Marshal Manavendra Singh, and according to the defence minister, they reached Wellington in Tamil Nadu on Wednesday itself and have started their investigation as well.The IAF helicopter Mi17V5 helicopter crashed near Coonoor following loss of contact to the Sulur control room at Wednesday noon. CDS General Rawat was en route to the Defence Services Staff College (DSSC) to address the faculty and students there. Group Captain Varun Singh, who is the directing staff at the DSSC, is the only person to have survived the chopper crash, and is currently admitted in a military hospital in Wellington.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/bodies-of-cds-rawat-his-wife-among-four-to-be-positively-identified-report-101639049800439.html
09-12-2021||India||News updates from HT: Severity of chopper crash making identification difficult, says army and all the latest news||Here are today-’s top news, analysis and opinion. Know all about the latest news and other news updates from Hindustan Times.Chopper crash severity making positive identification of mortal remains difficult: ArmyThe Indian Army said on Thursday the severity of the air crash in Tamil Nadu, which led to deaths of chief of defence staff General Bipin Rawat and 12 others, was making it difficult to positively identify the mortal remains. Read more'He is still a leader of the team': Newly-appointed ODI skipper Rohit Sharma opens up on captaining 'batter' Virat KohliRohit Sharma on Wednesday was named India's new ODI skipper, ending Virat Kohli's captaincy lore where he led the national pack in 95 matches and registered 65 victories with an impressive win percentage of 70.43. Read moreVicky Kaushal-Katrina Kaif's wedding day: High security at Six Senses Fort Barwara, barricading outside venueActor-couple Vicky Kaushal and Katrina Kaif are tying the knot on Thursday at the Six Senses Fort Barwara in Rajasthan's Sawai Madhopur. On the wedding day, as the wedding preparations went on inside the venue, police officers and security personnel were seen outside the entrance of the fort, according to news agency ANI. Read moreHero MotoCorp stops bookings for XPulse 200 4V. Here's whyHero MotoCorp on Thursday announced that it has temporarily halted bookings for its new Xpulse 200 4V in the country. It was launched in India earlier this year in October at ₹1,28,150 (ex-showroom, Delhi). Read moreBloated all the time? Remove these foods from your diet for reliefDo you feel full even after eating a little and get that uncomfortable sensation of having trapped gas on increased pressure in your gut? While bloating is something that people face at some point or the other and gets resolved on its own, chronic bloating can make your life difficult. Read more||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/news-updates-from-ht-severity-of-chopper-crash-making-identification-of-mortal-remains-difficult-says-army-and-all-the-latest-news-101639049498574.html
09-12-2021||India||HC junks FIR against Mithun Chakraborty over his ‘controversial’ speech during Bengal polls||The Calcutta high court on Thursday quashed a first information report (FIR) against actor and Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) leader Mithun Chakraborty over an alleged controversial speech made during the West Bengal Assembly election campaign earlier this year. The bench, led by Justice Kaushik Chanda, also stayed further investigation into the matter.The former Trinamool Congress MP was facing a trial for “preaching violence” in his speeches while campaigning for the BJP ahead of the March-April polls.The complaint was lodged by one Mrityunjay Pal, a resident of Kolkata, against Chakraborty on May 6. It said the actor-turned-politician used a monologue from one of his popular Bengali movies in which his character describes himself as a cobra whose bite can kill anyone.The complainant said Chakraborty, who joined the BJP in the run-up to the polls, had incited violence through his speeches.The hotly contested Bengal elections where the BJP campaign was led by home minister Amit Shah and Prime Minister Narendra Modi Modi brought the Mamata Banerjee-led Trinamool Congress (TMC) back to power for the third time with a thumping majority.After results of the election were announced on May 2, incidents of violence were reported at various places in the state prompting a visit by a four-member team deputed by the ministry of home affairs in affected areas.The BJP has accused the TMC workers of their involvement in post-poll violence.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/hc-junks-fir-against-mithun-chakraborty-over-his-controversial-speech-101639046504733.html
09-12-2021||India||Katni SP asks to keep a strict vigil on ‘Sikh’, ‘Muslim’ terrorists; regrets 'clerical error'||The superintendent of police of the Katni district of Madhya Pradesh has expressed regret over a security circular signed by him asking to keep a strict vigil on “Sikh” and “Muslim” terrorists in the wake of the governor’s visit. The circular was issued on Monday for a scheduled visit of Madhya Pradesh governor Mangubhai Patel the next day. As per the circular, the governor was expected to arrive at the circuit house in Katni at around 3pm on Tuesday and depart for Jabalpur at 3.30pm the same day. The Katni SP issued a number of directions for security arrangements ahead of the governor’s visit as he has been given Z Plus security. It directed comprehensive briefing to the staff at special branch and to recommend sharing the information on the movement of anti-social and criminal elements on urgent basis.Under the ‘general directions’, the circular relating to the VIP movement read, "Keep a strict vigil on Sikhs, Muslims, JKLF, ULFA, SIMI & LTTE terrorists". Suni Jain, superintendent of police, Katni, said it was a “clerical error” and that police had no intentions to hurt the sentiments of any community."It is a clerical error. I have issued a show-cause notice to the clerk concerned," news agency ANI quoted Jain as saying.“Strict disciplinary action will be taken against the clerk. I express regret over this error. We had no intentions to hurt the sentiments of any community,” the Katni SP added, as quoted by ANI.(With agency inputs)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/katni-sp-asks-to-keep-a-strict-vigil-on-sikh-muslim-terrorists-regrets-clerical-error-101639048182167.html
09-12-2021||India||Priyanka Gandhi to launch Congress' election campaign in poll-bound Goa on Dec 10: Report||Congress general secretary Priyanka Gandhi Vadra is slated to visit Goa on December 10 in the run up to the state assembly elections to be held next year. She would launch the party’s poll campaign in the coastal state, news agency ANI reported.The Congress leader is set to visit Assolna, where she will pay her respects at the Martyr’s Memorial, meet with tribal women and have lunch with them at Morpirla in Quepem taluka and also interact with 'Amchem Mollem' student activists at MCC Hall, Margao, according to the report. Further Vadra will also address a women's convention 'Priyadarshani' at the Costa ground, Aquem.Among other major engagements, she is also scheduled to interact with the office-bearers and functionaries of the Women Congress (Mahila Congress) and attend a convention of Congress workers of Mormugao that has been organised at the Chicalim ground where prominent activists will be inducted into the party.Also read | Sanjay Raut says Sena may form alliance with Congress in UP, GoaGoa is not the only poll-bound state where Priyanka Gandhi is set to address election rallies. She will also be visiting Uttarakhand, which is also going to polls early next year, news agency PTI had earlier reported citing senior party leader Harish Rawat.Meanwhile, on Wednesday, Priyanka Gandhi released a poll manifesto aimed at women in Uttar Pradesh, another state gearing up for assembly elections next year, in which she promised 40% quota for women in government jobs, free bus travel, three free cooking gas cylinders each year and other such benefits. The party had already said that it would give 40% of the seats to women in the election.Earlier in October, Congress MP Rahul Gandhi had already visited Goa on a one-day trip during which he had promised to provide “sustainable employment” in the state. He also said that the Centre was attacking small and medium businesses.“Today I asked Chidambaram Ji about the ways to provide sustainable jobs to Goa. He said that by making Goa an educational hub, health care hub, tourism hub, Goa's youth can be offered jobs,” news agency ANI quoted Rahul Gandhi as saying on October 30.Notably former Goa chief minister and Congress leader Luizinho Faleiro, in September, had quit the Congress and later joined Mamata Banerjee’s the All India Trinamool Congress (AITC), a party which would also debut in the Goa assembly election 2022.(With agency inputs)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/priyanka-gandhi-to-launch-congress-election-campaign-in-poll-bound-goa-on-dec-10-report-101639047256918.html
09-12-2021||India||IAF officer killed in crash hoped to see his father who is on life support||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM: Junior warrant officer Arakkal Pradeep Kumar (37), one of the 13 who lost their lives when the Mi 17 chopper went off the radar and crashed in Tamil Nadu’s Coonoor, hoped to come back home in Thrissur this weekend to see his ailing father. Pradeep Kumar’s father AV Radhakrishnan had taken ill and had been on the ventilator for the last five days. In his last phone call on Wednesday, Kumar promised his mother that he will be home soon. It was one of the perks of being posted at the Sulur airbase in Tamil Nadu’s Coimbatore district. His home in Kerala’s Thrissur was just about 125km away.“He called up his mother on Wednesday morning saying he was on an important trip accompanying the Chief of Defence Staff and promised her he will be there in the weekend to look after his ailing father,” said his younger brother A Prasad who is camping in Coimbatore.Pradeep Kumar came home last week too to see his father, and also celebrated his son’s fifth birthday. His younger daughter is just two years old.Kumar was part of many rescue operations including the Uttarakhand floods in 2013, the Kerala floods in 2018 and anti-Naxal operations in Chattisgarh, his family member said.The junior warrant officer had promised his family to exit the air force once he completed 20 years in IAF; he joined in 2004.Kerala revenue minister K Rajan called on his family on Thursday morning. State Governor Arif Mohammad Khan, Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan and opposition leader V D Satheesan condoled the death of the young officer. “The country had lost a brave officer,” said CM in his condolence message. Puthur panchayat president Mini Unnikrishanan said the village will give a befitting farewell to the brave officer and will build a memorial for him.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/iaf-officer-killed-in-crash-hoped-to-see-his-father-who-is-on-life-support-101639047097012.html
09-12-2021||India||Year-long parliament of farmers dissolves; protesters to return home on Dec 11||The agitating farmers at various borders of the national capital, protesting against the three contentious agricultural laws and several related issues, have decided to call off their demonstrations on Thursday, soon after the Centre agreed to their demands.The farmers' unions have said the protesters will head back home after vacating Singhu border, the epicentre of the 14-month-long protests, near Delhi on Saturday (December 11) before offering prayers at the Golden Temple in Amritsar on December 13.The development comes hours after the government sent a letter to the farm unions, accepting their demands, including the withdrawal of all agitation-related cases, compensation to the families of farmers who died during the course of the movement against the controversial agriculture laws and continuing the ongoing policy on Minimum Support Price (MSP), among others.The Samyukt Kisan Morcha (SKM), an umbrella of various farmers' unions spearheading the movement, said the group would conevene in Delhi on January 15 to review the implementation of government's assurances.Last week, the SKM formed a five-member panel to hold talks with the government on the pending demands of the protesting farmers. The SKM leaders met on Wednesday to discuss on the Centre's olive branch offer.ALSO READ | A year of farm protests: Joy at Ground Zero, after 358 daysHundreds and thousands of farmers were various entry points to Delhi since November last year after the government enacted three legislations on agriculture. Even as the contentious laws were revoked at Parliament's Winter Session this year the farmers asserted that the protests would continue until the government agrees on their other demands.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/farmers-protests-called-off-farm-laws-repeal-farmers-unions-demands-101639043587709.html
09-12-2021||India||Kin of Lance Naik Sai Teja, PSO to Gen Rawat, wait for his mortal remains||When Lance Naik Boggala Sai Teja (27), made a video call from New Delhi to his wife Shyamala at Madanapalle in Andhra Pradesh’s Chittoor district at 8.45 am on Wednesday, little did she realise that it would be the last time she was seeing him alive.Teja was one of the 12 people who were killed along with Chief of Defence Staff General Bipin Lakshman Singh Rawat, in the fatal helicopter crash at Coonoor in Tamil Nadu on Wednesday afternoon. He was CDS General Rawat’s personal security officer“He used to speak to his wife and kids – Mokshagna (5) and Dakshini (2) regularly. On Wednesday morning, too, he called up his wife and told her that he wanted to see his daughter on the video call. It was a short call, as he was in a hurry to accompany his boss to Tamil Nadu,” Teja’s uncle B Sudarshan told Hindustan Times.Teja’s demise in the tragic helicopter crash sent shock waves through his native village Eguva Regada of Kurabalakota block in Chittoor. His father Boggala Mohan, a farmer and mother Bhuvaneshwari, a former block parishad member, are inconsolable, while Shyamala is still in a state of shock.“It was only a few months ago that Teja shifted his wife and children to SBI Colony in Madanapalle town, about 15 km away from the village, to get his son admitted to a pre-primary school. The last time he visited the family was for Ganesh Chaturthi in the month of September. He was expected to come for a visit again during the Sankranti festival,” Sudershan, who works in the local village secretariat, said.The family got to know about the crash of the army helicopter with General Rawat on board only in the evening. “We were not sure whether Teja was also in the same chopper or not. We were only praying that he should be safe. It was only at around 8 pm his commanding officer from New Delhi called up Shyamala’s brother and conveyed the tragic news,” Sudershan said.Teja’s family do not know when his mortal remains will be brought to the village. “Nobody from New Delhi spoke to us after the incident and told us what to do. Even the local authorities are not aware of what is likely to be the next step,” he said.When contacted, Chittoor superintendent of police S Senthil Kumar said Teja’s mortal remains are expected to arrive on Thursday evening or Friday morning after the ceremonial tribute at New Delhi. “We are making all arrangements for his last rites,” he said.According to Sudershan, Teja joined the Indian Army as a sepoy in Bengaluru Regiment in 2013 and climbed up in ranks because of his hard work. He was appointed as personal security officer to General Rawat only seven months ago.“He got married to Shyamala of Siddhareddypally village in 2015. His younger brother B Mahesh Babu is also a soldier posted in Sikkim at present. He is also flying down this evening to join the last rites,” Sudershan added.Andhra Pradesh Governor Biswa Bhusan Harichandan expressed grief over the death of Lance Naik Sai Teja in the helicopter crash near Coonoor on Wednesday.Harichandan said it was a great loss for the family of Sai Teja. He offered his condolences to the bereaved family.
09-12-2021||India||Tamil Nadu locals shower flower petals on vehicles carrying mortal remains of Rawat, others. Watch||Locals in Tamil Nadu showered flower petals on vehicles carrying the mortal remains of Chief of Defence Staff Bipin Rawat, his wife and other security forces personnel who died in the helicopter crash on Wednesday. In a video shared by news agency ANI, locals can be seen chanting slogans and showering flower petals on the ambulances carrying the mortal remains of the deceased while they were on their way to Sulur airbase from Madras Regimental Centre in Nilgiris district. The tribute continued as the vehicles arrived at Sulur airbase.#WATCH | Tamil Nadu: Locals shower flower petals as ambulances carrying the mortal remains of CDS Bipin Rawat, his wife and other personnel who died in the Coonoor Helicopter Crash, leave for Sulur airbase from Madras Regimental Centre in Nilgiris district pic.twitter.com/dWhw9kG3l9All 13 bodies will be brought to New Delhi in an Indian Air Force C-130J Super Hercules transport aircraft, reported ANI citing people familiar with the matter. The report suggests that four bodies, including that of Gen Rawat, his wife Madhulika, and Brig LS Lidder have been positively identified. Gen Rawat to be accorded full military honours; tri-service probe ordered into chopper crashOn Thursday, the Indian Army said the severity of the crash has made it difficult to positively identify the bodies, adding that all measures are being taken considering the sensitivities and emotional well-being of the loved ones. It further stated that assistance of close family members will also be taken in addition to scientific measures for positive identification of the mortal remains.“Mortal remains will be released to the Next of Kin only after positive identification. Appropriate military rites of all personnel will be ensured in consultation with close relatives once the process of positive identification is completed,” ANI quoted the army as saying.Prime Minister Narendra Modi, defence minister Rajnath Singh, minister of state for defence Ajay Bhatt and national security adviser Ajit Doval are expected to pay tribute to Gen Rawat, his wife and 11 other personnel at the Palam Technical Area today evening, ANI reported.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/tamil-nadu-locals-shower-flower-petals-on-vehicles-carrying-mortal-remains-of-rawat-others-watch-101639043293214.html
09-12-2021||India||Chopper crash severity making positive identification of mortal remains difficult: Army||The Indian Army said on Thursday the severity of the air crash in Tamil Nadu, which led to deaths of chief of defence staff General Bipin Rawat and 12 others, was making it difficult to positively identify the mortal remains. It said all possible measures were being taken for positive identification keeping the sensitivities and emotional well being of their kin in mind.Inputs from news agency ANI said close family members of all the deceased personnel were on their way to Delhi. “All necessary assistance and support are being provided. Assistance of close family members for positive identification will be taken in addition to scientific measures,” an Army spokesperson said.Also read | Blackbox retrieved; clue for last-minute cockpit conversationIt was further informed that mortal remains of the deceased will be released to the next of kin only after positive identification and appropriate military rites of all personnel will be ensured in consultation with them once the official processes are completed.The IAF chopper crashed on Wednesday afternoon near Coonoor in the Nilgiris district leaving all but one dead.The government informed Parliament a tri-services inquiry team, led by Air Marshal Manavendra Singh, has started an investigation into the helicopter crash. The IAF has also instituted a Court of Inquiry in the incident.Also read | Coonoor crash turns spotlight on high-profile military air accidentsDefence minister Rajnath Singh the last rites of the chief of defence staff will be performed with full military honours. The final farewell of all other personnel will also be conducted with appropriate military honours, he added.Meanwhile, Group Captain Varun Singh, the sole survivor of the crash is being shifted to Bengaluru from a military hospital in Wellington. Officials said Singh is maintaining vital signs at the Wellington hospital.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/chopper-crash-severity-making-positive-identification-of-mortal-remains-tough-101639042403441.html
09-12-2021||India||Couldn’t pay tribute to Bipin Rawat, TMC MPs walk out of Rajya Sabha||Opposition parties on Thursday called off their protest in Parliament over the suspension of 12 lawmakers as a mark of respect to Chief of Defence Staff (CDS) Bipin Rawat and 12 others who died in an air crash on Wednesday. But they were up in arms in the Rajya Sabha for not being allowed to pay tribute to the deceased.Soon after union defence minister Rajnath Singh made a statement in the Upper House, the leader of the Opposition, Mallikarjun Kharge, requested that all floor leaders should be given a few minutes to speak.The request from the Opposition leaders to be able to pay tribute to the deceased was, however, turned down by deputy chairperson Harivansh Narayan Singh, who was in the chair. He said the defence minister has spoken and condolences have been offered collectively.As Opposition leaders pressed the chair to allow them to speak, members of the Trinamool Congress (TMC) walked out of the House in protest.Speaking outside the House, TMC lawmaker Sushmita Dev said, “ The suspended MPs observed a minute’s silence as the nation is in mourning, and today is not the day to protest. In Parliament, there was no disruption. All that we wanted was that every party should be given a chance to condole the deaths and express solidarity, so that the right message goes out. But we were bulldozed and we chose to walk out in protest against yet another move to suppress us.”Rashtriya Janata Dal leader Manoj Jha said the Opposition leaders should have been given a chance to pay tribute to the deceased, which is the standard practice in Parliament.“I’m told that with such national tragedies, every floor leader makes a reference. An obituary binds the House and it should have been allowed. But if the obituary is seen from a partisan perspective, then things are not good,” Jha told HT outside the House.
09-12-2021||India||Wing Commander Prithvi, pilot of ill-fated IAF chopper, was to visit home in January, says father||The pilot of the Mi17V5 IAF helicopter which crashed on Wednesday Chief of Defence Staff Bipin Rawat his wife Madhulika Rawat and 11 defence staff, Wing Commander Prithvi Singh Chauhan was supposed to come home, in Agra, in January, his father 74-year-old Surendra Singh said on Thursday. Singh had spoken to Prithvi, the youngest of five siblings, a few days ago regarding an appointment in the military hospital for Prithvi's mother who was facing some eye problems. He was a caring son, his father remembered.The family received the information of the crash through news channels, Singh told PTI. Prithvi's eldest sister saw the news on television and called his number. The phone was switched off. She then called Prithvi's wife Kamini who confirmed the tragic news.Group Captain Varun Singh, sole survivor of crash, maintaining vitalsThe family was originally based in Madhya Pradesh where Prithivi attended school. In 2006, they moved to Agra where Prithvi's father started a bakery business, PTI reported. Prithvi studied at the Sainik School in Madhya Pradesh's Rewa and got selected at the National Defence Academy. In 2000, he joined the IAF in Hyderabad and was now posted at the Indian Air Force station in Coimbatore.In 2007, Prithvi got married to Kamini and the couple has a daughter (12) and a son (7).His father recalled the Raksha Bandhan celebration when Prithvi could make it to the home, though his eldest sister who lives in Mumbai could not come, he said.Defence minister Rajnath Singh issued a statement in the Lok Sabha on the chopper crash and said a tri-service inquiry led by Air Marshal Manavendra Singh has already been ordered.The cause of the fatal crash is still unknown with many reports blaming bad weather for the mishap. Two boxes, including the flight data recorder, or the black box, were found after authorities expanded the search area from 300 metres to one kilometre. They are likely to be taken to Delhi or Bengaluru to ascertain the cause of the crash, officials said. The black box is expected to provide crucial data on the chain of events leading to the crash.(With agency inputs)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/wing-commander-prithvi-pilot-of-ill-fated-iaf-chopper-was-to-visit-home-in-january-says-father-101639037596437.html
09-12-2021||India||News updates from HT: Top Air Marshal heading inquiry into Mi-17 crash, says Rajnath Singh and all the latest news||Here are today-’s top news, analysis and opinion. Know all about the latest news and other news updates from Hindustan Times.Top Air Marshal heading inquiry into Mi-17 crash, Rajnath Singh tells Lok SabhaA top three-star officer is heading an inquiry into the Mi-17 Coonoor crash in which 13 people including chief of defence staff (CDS) General Bipin Rawat were killed on Wednesday, defence minister Rajnath Singh told Lok Sabha on Thursday.Alia Bhatt, Deepika Padukone or Katrina Kaif? Here's the Bollywood actress who ruled Twitter at top spot in 2021As the year 2021 comes to a close, Twitter has unveiled which Bollywood actors ruled at the top spots on Twitter this year. The list charts 2021's 'Most Tweeted about Bollywood Actors (Female)'. Released by Twitter, the list features Alia Bhatt, Deepika Padukone, and Anushka Sharma among others. Read moreVaani Kapoor, in an ivory white jumpsuit, is a vision to beholdVaani Kapoor is currently awaiting the release of her upcoming film Chandigarh Kare Aashiqui. The promotions of the film are on full swing. Often Vaani Kapoor and her co-star from the film Ayushmann Khurrana are spotted on their best of attires for the promotional events of the film. Read moreMaruti Suzuki Baleno scales one million sales markMaruti Suzuki Baleno premium hatchback has sold more than one million cars since its launch, the automaker announced on Thursday. Read moreRajnath Singh in Parliament:'Tri-service enquiry ordered into IAF chopper crash'Defence minister Rajnath Singh on Thursday said that a tri-service inquiry will be conducted into the IAF helicopter crash the previous day that resulted in the death of the country's first Chief of Defence Staff (CDS) Bipin Rawat, his wife Madhulika, and 11 other personnel of the armed forces. Watch here||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/news-updates-from-ht-top-air-marshal-heading-inquiry-into-mi-17-crash-rajnath-singh-tells-parliament-and-all-the-latest-news-101639035172380.html
09-12-2021||India||Modi shares throwback pics to mark 75 yrs of Constituent Assembly’s 1st sitting||NEW DELHI: Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Thursday paid glowing tributes to members of the first Constituent Assembly who held their first meeting 75 years ago on December 9, 1946, underlining how distinguished people from different backgrounds and ideologies sat together to give the country a “worthy Constitution”.PM Modi also shared photographs from the historic event 75 years ago.Today, 75 years ago our Constituent Assembly met for the first time. Distinguished people from different parts of India, different backgrounds and even differing ideologies came together with one aim- to give the people of India a worthy Constitution. Tributes to these greats. pic.twitter.com/JfJUFw2ThK“Today, 75 years ago our Constituent Assembly met for the first time. Distinguished people from different parts of India, different backgrounds and even differing ideologies came together with one aim- to give the people of India a worthy Constitution. Tributes to these greats,” PM Modi said on Twitter. In one of the photographs, Sardar Vallabhbhai Patel is seen on the front row amongst other leaders. In another, Jawaharlal Nehru is seen addressing the House.The first sitting of the Constituent Assembly was Presided over by Dr. Sachchidananda Sinha, who was the eldest member of the Assembly. He was introduced and conducted to the Chair by Acharya Kripalani. pic.twitter.com/VWuNJDjBYqHe added, “I would urge my young friends to know more about this august gathering’s proceedings and about the eminent stalwarts who were a part of it. Doing so would be an intellectually enriching experience.”The first constituent assembly sitting was presided by Sachchidananda Sinha, the “temporary chairman” of the assembly. Sinha was then the oldest parliamentarian in India and had even served as a member of the Imperial Legislative Council from 1910 to 1920. PM Modi also shared an image of the original record of the proceedings.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/modi-shares-throwback-pics-to-mark-75-yrs-of-constituent-assembly-s-1st-sitting-101639034311717.html
09-12-2021||India||No Opposition protest today as mark of respect to CDS Rawat, announces Kharge||NEW DELHI: Opposition parties announced they will not hold their protests on Thursday as a mark of respect to India’s chief of defence staff General Bipin Rawat, his wife and 11 other armed personnel who lost their lives in a tragic chopper crash on Wednesday.Leader of the Opposition in the Rajya Sabha Mallikarjun Kharge, who has been at the forefront of the protests over the suspension of 12 MPs from the Upper House, said “We’ve decided not to protest (against the suspension of 12 Rajya Sabha MPs) today in honour of CDS Bipin Rawat and the soldiers who died in the chopper crash and to pay tributes to them.”Kharge said, “We’ll also attend the House when defence minister Rajnath Singh gives his statement.”Defence minister Rajnath Singh addressed an unusually somber Lok Sabha as soon as the House proceedings started at 11am. Singh gave details about the horrific Mi-17 Coonoor chopper crash, told members that the tri-service inquiry under Air Marshal Manavendra Singh has already begun work and said Gen Rawat will be cremated with full military honours.A Congress leader said that the party brass directed that no protests, which usually lead to slogans and noisy disruptions, should be held on Thursday as the nation mourns the loss of India’s first CDS Bipin Rawat. Also Read: With China and Pak borders active, merit criteria for new CDS appointmentFor the last two weeks, massive protests have rocked Parliament, especially the Rajya Sabha after 12 Opposition MPs were suspended for unruly incidents in the last session. the Opposition challenged the suspension on legal and technical grounds. On Wednesday, Congress president Sonia Gandhi termed the decision as “unprecedented” and “outrageous”. The Congress has also announced that the party will not celebrate party president Sonia Gandhi’s birthday on Thursday. The decision was conveyed to state units of the party by general secretary in charge of the organisation KC Venugopal.
09-12-2021||India||At long last, farmers call off year-long protests as govt agrees to all demands||After intense negotiations initiated by the Union home ministry, the farmers protesting at the borders of the national capital have finally decided to end their year-long movement. This comes in the wake of the Centre accepting all demands put forward by the protesting farmers, including the withdrawal of all agitation-related cases and compensation to the families of farmers who had died during the course of the movement against the contentious agriculture laws.The Samyukt Kisan Morcha (SKM) – the umbrella body of farmers' unions spearheading the protests – had said last evening that their 14-month agitation will be called off at 12pm on Thursday, but only after they receive the final copy of the government’s revised proposal accepting their demands.The following were the demands of the protesting farmers:1. Withdrawal of all the agitation-related cases registered during this protest in all states and Union territories, or under central government agencies, etc.2. Compensation to all the families of the agitating farmers who died during the course of agitation.3. No criminal liability to farmers in the cases of stubble burning.4. The government has to discuss the Electricity Amendment Bill with the SKM or with other farmers' unions before bringing it up in Parliament.5. A committee to discuss minimum support price (MSP) is to be formed; the SKM will list out their members in the panel and provide it to the farmers.6. The ongoing policy on MSP and its procurement in the country will continue as it is.Memorial dedicated to 58 farmers from Sangrur who died during stir against 3 laws inauguratedThe consensus to call off the farmers' protests was reached after the central government agreed to take back all cases registered during the farm agitation and for stubble burning. According to the protesting farmers, the government has also assured that it will table the Electricity Amendment Bill only after consultation with the SKM or relevant farmers' unions.Moreover, the Haryana and Uttar Pradesh state governments, along the lines of Punjab, have also agreed to provide a compensation of ₹5 lakh and a job to the kin of deceased farmers. Finally, the demand to include only SKM leaders in the MSP committee – apart from officials from the states, Centre, and agricultural experts – has also been met.Earlier, the farmers were also demanding that Union minister Ajay Mishra, whose son Ashish has been tried in the Lakhimpur Kheri violence case, be sacked. However, judging by the last demand proposal sent to the Centre, the SKM's five-member panel had removed that point.Prime Minister Narendra Modi announced on November 19 that the central government will bring necessary bills in the winter session of Parliament to repeal the farm laws. He had also assured that the government will be constituting a committee to work on a new framework for MSP.Both the Lok Sabha and the Rajya Sabha passed the Farm Laws Repeal Bill on the first day of the winter session on November 29. President Ram Nath Kovind gave his assent to the bill, which completed the process of repealing the three farm laws.The farmers had been protesting against the farm laws on various borders of Delhi since November 26, 2020.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/farmers-end-year-long-protest-as-govt-agrees-to-all-demands-of-protesters-101639032007473.html
09-12-2021||India||In respect of chopper crash victims, opposition calls off protest against suspension of 12 MPs||The opposition on Thursday called off their protests against the suspension of 12 Rajya Sabha MPs in a mark of respect to the tragic passing of General Bipin Rawat, Chief of Defence Staff, in a helicopter crash. "We have decided not to protest today in honour of CDS Bipin Rawat and the soldiers who died in the chopper crash and to pay tribute to them," said the leader of opposition Mallikaarjun Kharge.Priyanka Chaturvedi, Shiv Sena MP, also said, "On the solidarity of CDS and others who lost their lives in the crash, we have called off the protest today."Several MPs from opposition parties have been protesting against the suspension of 12 MPs. They were suspended by the house on the first day of the winter session proceedings, for alleged unruly conduct towards the end of the monsoon session in August. Due to continued protests, the upper house of Parliament has been seeing constant disruption and adjournments since the proceedings began on November 29.The suspended members comprise six from the Congress -- Phulo Devi Netam, Chhaya Verma, Ripun Bora, Rajamani Patel, Syed Nasir Hussain and Akhilesh Prasad Singh. It also includes two from Trinamool Congress (Dola Sen, Shanta Chhetri), two from Shiv Sena (Priyanka Chaturvedi, Anil Desai) and one each from CPI (Binoy Viswam) and CPM (Elamaram Kareem).A chopper with General Rawat, his wife Madhulika and 12 other people on board crashed near Coonoor in Tamil Nadu on Wednesday afternoon.The crash resulted in the deaths of 13 people including General Rawat and his wife. The lone survivor, group captain Varun Singh, is currently under treatment at a military hospital in Wellington, the Indian Air Force said.General Rawat, India's first CDS, was on a visit to the Defence Services Staff College in Wellington to address the faculty and student officers of the Staff Course when his chopper crashed.His mortal remains will reach Delhi by evening and the last rites will be done at Delhi Cantonment on Friday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/chopper-crash-opposition-calls-off-protest-against-suspension-of-12-mps-101639031560034.html
09-12-2021||India||Top Air Marshal heading inquiry into Mi-17 crash, Rajnath Singh tells Lok Sabha||NEW DELHI: A top three-star officer is heading an inquiry into the Mi-17 Coonoor crash in which 13 people including chief of defence staff (CDS) General Bipin Rawat were killed on Wednesday, defence minister Rajnath Singh told Lok Sabha on Thursday. The tri-service inquiry under Air Marshal Manavendra Singh has already begun its work, Singh said, in a statement on the horrific crash. Manavendra Singh is the Air Officer Commanding-in-Chief of the IAF’s Training Command in Bengaluru.“With profound grief and heavy heart, I stand to convey the unfortunate news of the crash of the military helicopter in the noon of December 8, 2021, with India’s first Chief of Defence Staff, Gen Bipin Rawat onboard,” Rajnath Singh said.Also Read: First among Generals, CDS Rawat was a fauji to the coreThe defence minister gave out the timeline of the developments before the crash.The Mi 17 V 5 helicopter took off from Sulur air base at 11:48am on Wednesday and was expected to land at Wellington by 12:15 pm but the air traffic control at Sulur lost contact with the helicopter at 12:08 pm, the minister said.Gen Bipin Rawat was on a visit to the prestigious Defence Services Staff College (DSSC) at Wellington to address the faculty and student officers there.Also Read: Group Captain Varun Singh, sole survivor of crash, maintaining vitalsAfter the crash, the minister said some locals spotted a fire in the forest near Coonoor and rushed to the spot where they sighted the helicopter’s wreckage engulfed in flames. Rescue teams from the local administration reached the site and attempted to recover the survivors from the crash site, he said.“All those recovered from the wreckage were rushed to the Military Hospital, Wellington. Out of the total 14 persons onboard the ill-fated helicopter, 13 succumbed to their injuries,” he said, reading out the names of all the people killed in the crash -- Madhulika Rawat, Brig Lakhbinder Singh Lidder, Lt Col Harjinder Singh, Wing Commander Prithvi Singh Chauhan (pilot), Squadron Leader Kuldeep Singh (co-pilot), Junior Warrant Officers Rana Pratap Das and Arakkal Pradeep, Havildar Satpal Rai, Naik Gursewak Singh, Naik Jitendra Kumar, Lance Naik Vivek Kumar and Lance Naik B Sai Teja.The minister said Group Captain Varun Singh, the sole survivor of the crash, was on life support at the Military Hospital in Wellington and all efforts are being made to save his life. IAF chief Air Chief Marshal VR Chaudhari visited the hospital.CDS Bipin Rawat will be cremated with full military honours, the minister said.“I, on behalf of the august House, pay homage to the deceased persons and express condolences to the bereaved families,” said an emotional Singh. The remains of the 13 people killed in the crash are being flown to Delhi today in an IAF aircraft.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/top-air-marshal-heading-inquiry-into-mi-17-crash-rajnath-singh-tells-lok-sabha-101639030709269.html
09-12-2021||India||Gen Rawat to be accorded full military honours; tri-service probe ordered into chopper crash||Defence minister Rajnath Singh on Thursday said that a tri-service inquiry will be conducted into the Indian Air Force (IAF) helicopter crash the previous day that resulted in the death of the country's first Chief of Defence Staff (CDS) Bipin Rawat, his wife Madhulika, and 11 other personnel of the armed forces. Making a statement in Parliament this morning, the Union minister said that the tri-service inquiry team, which will be led by Air Marshal Manavendra Singh, reached Wellington on Wednesday itself and has already started its investigation in the matter.“The Indian Air Force has ordered a tri-service inquiry into the military chopper crash,” said Rajnath Singh in Lok Sabha, adding, “The investigation will be led by Air Marshal Manavendra Singh. The inquiry team reached Wellington yesterday itself and started the investigation.”Notably, Air Marshal Manavendra Singh is the commander of the IAF’s training command and a helicopter pilot himself, according to air force personnel.Footage from Sansad TV showed that the Lok Sabha had decided to observe two minutes of silence before the commencement of its usual proceedings, out of respect for all 13 of the Indian Armed forces personnel who lost their lives yesterday in the military helicopter crash.With China and Pak borders active, merit will be the criteria for new CDS appointmentElaborating on the matter at hand, the defence minister further said that CDS General Bipin Rawat's last rites will be performed with full military honours. “The last rites of the other military personnel will be performed with appropriate military honours as well,” the minister said, adding that the mortal remains of all the victims shall be brought back to the national capital, New Delhi, by this evening.The Indian Air Force's Mi-17V5 military helicopter, carrying CDS General Bipin Rawat, his wife Madhulika, and 11 other armed forces personnel, crashed near Coonoor in Tamil Nadu after losing contact with the Sulur control room at around 12.08pm on Wednesday. As many as 13 of the 14 onboard the copter, including the pilot, perished in the incident. The sole survivor, group captain Varun Singh, is presently fighting for his life at a military hospital in Wellington. All efforts are being made to save his life, assured the Union defence minister.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/triservice-inquiry-ordered-into-iaf-helicopter-crash-says-rajnath-singh-101639028664919.html
09-12-2021||India||India's daily Covid-19 tally goes up to 9,419; related fatalities rise by 159||India on Thursday reported as many as 9,419 cases of the coronavirus disease (Covid-19), pushing the overall tally to 34,666,241. The fresh jump in total infections was 11.6 per cent higher than Wednesday when the country logged 8,439 cases, according to the data updated by the Union ministry of health and family welfare. The related fatalities rose by 159 and the total toll now stands at 474,111, the health ministry also said.India's active caseload currently stands at 94,742 and it accounts 0.27 per cent of the total cases, as per the data.The recovery rate currently stands at 98.36%, the highest since March 2020, the health ministry also said in the daily health bulletin. As many as 34,097,388 people have been discharged from hospitals after being recuperated from the disease. Out of this, 8,251 recoveries took place in the last 24 hours.The daily positivity rate (0.73 per cent) remained below 2 per cent, the health ministry also stated. WIth 0.74 per cent, the weekly positivity rate has been less than 1 per cent for the last 25 days.The country has conducted a total of more than 650 million tests for Covid-19 so far. Over 1.3 crore Covid-19 vaccine doses have been administered so far under the nationwide vaccination drive.The World Health Organization on Wednesday cited early evidence of the research on the new Omicron variant of the Covid-19 and suggested that it may be spreading faster than the highly transmissible delta variant. However, it is less severe than its previous mutations, the world body also informed, while cautioning that it is still "too early to make firm conclusions."||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/indias-daily-covid-19-tally-goes-up-to-9-419-related-fatalities-rise-by-159-101639029865475.html
09-12-2021||India||Group Captain Varun Singh, sole survivor of crash, maintaining vitals||Group Captain Varun Singh, the sole survivor of the Mi-17 chopper crash in Coonoor on Wednesday in which 13 people including chief of defence staff (CDS) General Bipin Rawat died, is maintaining vital signs at the Military Hospital in Wellington, officials familiar with the matter said on Thursday.The decorated fighter pilot may be moved to the Indian Air Force (IAF) Command Hospital at Bengaluru later on Thursday, the officials added. Two doctors from the command hospital are in Wellington to take Singh to Bengaluru.Group Captain Varun Singh, the sole survivor of the Mi-17 chopper crash in Coonoor on Wednesday in which 13 people including chief of defence staff (CDS) General Bipin Rawat died, is maintaining vital signs at the Military Hospital in Wellington, officials familiar with the matter said on Thursday.The decorated fighter pilot may be moved to the Indian Air Force (IAF) Command Hospital at Bengaluru later on Thursday, the officials added. Two doctors from the command hospital are in Wellington to take Singh to Bengaluru.|#+|CDS General Rawat, 63, his wife Madhulika Raje Singh Rawat and 11 others were killed on Wednesday afternoon in the crash in one of the worst air accidents involving India’s top military brass and a setback to the ongoing military reforms in the country, the biggest since Independence.Rawat was on a visit to the Defence Services Staff College (DSSC) at Wellington to address the faculty and student officers. The group captain is directing staff at the DSSC.An inquiry has been ordered into the crash. The chopper was on its way from the Sulur air base to the DSSC when it went down near Coonoor. The CDS, his wife and seven others had flown to Sulur from New Delhi on an Embraer jet of the IAF’s VVIP communication squadron.President Ram Nath Kovind conferred Shaurya Chakra on Singh on August 15, 2021, for exceptional gallantry. The award is India’s third-highest peacetime gallantry medal. Singh was a wing commander at that time and pilot in a light combat aircraft (LCA) squadron.On October 12, 2020, he was flying a test sortie in the LCA when an emergency developed due to the failure of cockpit pressurisation at high altitude.“This was an unprecedented catastrophic failure that had never occurred. There was a rapid loss of altitude while in usual attitude, with the aircraft pitching up and down viciously… Despite being in extreme physical and mental stress in an extreme life-threatening situation, he maintained exemplary composure and regained control of the aircraft, thereby exhibiting exceptional flying skills,” Singh’s citation had said.“He displayed extraordinary courage and skill to safely land the fighter aircraft. The pilot went beyond the call of duty and landed the aircraft taking calculated risks. This allowed an accurate analysis of the fault on the indigenously designed fighter and further institution of preventive measures against recurrence,” it had added.
09-12-2021||India||Report in 4 weeks, SC tells panel set up in March to assess valuation of trees||NEW DELHI: The Supreme Court has directed a committee set up in March to assess the valuation of trees required to be felled for construction of development projects to submit its report in four weeks. The committee was formed on March 25 and was required to submit its report within a month.With the report still awaited eight months later, the Centre represented by solicitor general Tushar Mehta urged the top court on Wednesday to call for the report as several state and central projects remained stalled for this reason.“Finding out a methodology for valuation of trees cannot go on for months together. By the very nature of work they are supposed to do, nine months is a pretty long time. We want a direction to expedite the report. Based on this recommendation, project proponents have to make payment,” Mehta said. He was appearing for Rail Vikas Nigam Limited in the MC Mehta case dealing with tree felling in relation to construction activities around the iconic Taj Mahal.Additional solicitor general (ASG) Aishwarya Bhati representing the Uttar Pradesh government also made a similar request citing a long list of state government projects held up due to payment of compensatory afforestation charges to be determined by the committee.The bench of justices L Nageswara Rao, BR Gavai and BV Nagarathna said, “The committee shall submit its report in four weeks. List the matters in January.” The court also sought a list of public projects pending on account of the report by the tree valuation committee. ASG Bhati agreed to compile the list.This committee, which has seven experts, is headed by wildlife expert MK Ranjitsinh and has a joint secretary of the Ministry of Environment, Forests and Climate Change (MoEFCC) as its member secretary. The task of the committee was to fix the value of trees taking into account the intrinsic and instrumental value of trees based not on their timber worth but their age, girth and environmental contribution.Also Read:  ₹1.20 crore fine imposed on tribal man for cutting 2 trees in MP’s RaisenThe other members of the committee are Arun Singh Rawat, director-general, Indian Council for Forestry Research, Sandeep Tambe, Professor of Forestry at the Indian Institute of Forest Management, Bhopal, Gopal Singh Rawat, former dean and director, Wildlife Institute of India, Nilanjan Ghosh, director, Observer Research Foundation, Kolkata, and an expert in ecological economics, and environmentalist Pradeep Krishen.Besides the valuation of trees, the committee was also required to lay down rules mandating the project proponents to study alternate routes of transport such as railways or waterways instead of felling of trees to construct road projects.Photos: Delhi’s iconic trees in the wake of SC’s report on “valuation of trees”The order constituting the committee was passed while considering a petition filed by the Association for Protection of Democratic Rights that opposed the felling of old trees, some aged over 150 trees, for construction of five road-over-bridges (ROB) as part of a road-widening project of the West Bengal government.The court sought the opinion of a group of experts on valuing ornamental trees who suggested that a tree’s worth could be calculated by setting a multiplier of ₹74,500 to the age of the tree. A heritage tree with a lifespan of over 100 years could even be worth over ₹1 crore, it submitted in a report given to Court. The matter is related to the chopping of over 300 trees.Also Read: What’s the value of a tree? Age multiplied by ₹74.5k: SC panelIn its March 25 order, the bench said: “The guidelines shall prescribe a mechanism for assessment of both intrinsic and instrumental value of the trees, based not only on the value of timber, but also the ecosystem services rendered by the trees and its special relevance, if any, to the habitat of other living organisms, soil, flowing and underground water.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/report-in-4-weeks-sc-tells-panel-set-up-in-march-to-assess-valuation-of-trees-101639028728837.html
09-12-2021||India||Sulur control room lost contact with IAF chopper at 12.08pm: Rajnath Singh in his statement in Parliament||Defence minister Rajnath Singh issued a statement in the Lok Sabha on Thursday on the IAF chopper crash that killed 13 including chief of defence staff Bipin Rawat. Recounting the timeline of the fatal crash, the defence minister said the chopper started at 11.48am from Sulur and was supposed to reach the Wellington airbase at 12.15pm. At around 12.08pm, the Sulur base control room lost contact with the chopper. It was a scheduled visit, the defence minister said. After the crash, local people reached the spot seeing fire and started rescue work. The local administration pressed into the rescue work. Naming all those who have lost their lives in the crash, the defence minister said Group Captain Varun Singh's health condition is critical as he is on life support. All efforts are being made to save his life, the defence minister said. IAF chopper crash: Blackbox retrieved; clue for last-minute cockpit conversationIn his statement, the defence minister announced a tri-service inquiry into the crash which will be headed by Air Marshal Manvendra Singh, who is a Commander of IAF's training command and a helicopter pilot.Soon after the crash on Wednesday, the defence minister visited Bipin Rawat's residence. It was announced that he will issue a statement in both the houses of Parliament on Thursday. General Rawat, India's first CDS, was on a visit to the Defence Services Staff College in Wellington to address the faculty and student officers of the Staff Course when his chopper crashed near Coonoor in Tamil Nadu. General Rawat was appointed as India's first Chief of Defense Staff on December 31, 2019. He previously served as Chief of the Army Staff from January 2017 to December 2019. He was commissioned into the Indian Army in December 1978. A veteran of counterinsurgency warfare, CDS Rawat served in the most difficult terrains including Northern and Eastern commands.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/control-room-lost-contact-with-iaf-chopper-at-12-08pm-rajnath-singh-101639027504466.html
09-12-2021||India||On Sonia Gandhi's 75th birthday, PM Modi and others extend greetings||Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Thursday extended his greetings to Congress interim president Sonia Gandhi on her 75th birthday. Taking to his official handle on Twitter, the Prime Minister sent his best wishes to the Congress leader and prayed for her long life and good health. Along with Modi, several other leaders – from BJP functionaries to the chief ministers of several states cutting across party lines – also extended their wishes to the 75-year-old Congress chief.“Best wishes to Smt. Sonia Gandhi Ji on her birthday. Praying for her long life and good health,” tweeted PM Modi from his official handle on the microblogging website.Best wishes to Smt. Sonia Gandhi Ji on her birthday. Praying for her long life and good health.Union minister Nitin Gadkari and Delhi chief minister Arvind Kejriwal, along with other leaders, also extended their wishes to Congress leader Sonia Gandhi on her 75th birthday.Birthday greetings to the President of the Indian National Congress party Smt. Sonia Gandhi Ji. May you be blessed with good health and long life.Birthday greetings to Smt. Sonia Gandhi Ji. Praying for her long and healthy life.My best wishes to @INCIndia president Sonia Gandhi’ji on her birthday. I pray for her good healthSonia Gandhi, who turned 75 today, has however appealed to party workers to not celebrate her birthday in the wake of the demise of Cheif of Defence Staff (CDS) General Bipin Rawat in an IAF chopper crash on Wednesday, according to party sources cited by the ANI news agency.Notably, Sonia Gandhi did not celebrate her birthday last year, too, to extend support to the farmers' protest against the farm laws (now repealed) and because of the Covid-19 situation in the country.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/on-sonia-gandhi-s-75th-birthday-pm-modi-and-others-extend-greetings-101639026432857.html
09-12-2021||India||IAF chopper crash: Blackbox retrieved; clue for last-minute cockpit conversation||A day after chief of defence staff General Bipin Rawat, his wife Madhulika Rawat and 11 others were killed after an IAF chopper crashed near the Katteri-Nanchappanchathram area in Coonoor, officials launched a search for the flight recorder, popularly known as the black box, on Thursday morning. Reports said after the search area was expanded from 300 metres to one kilometre from the accident spot, the black box was retrieved. It is not yet known how the chopper crashed minutes before it was scheduled to reach its destination in Wellington.The black box would provide crucial data on the chain of events of exactly what happened before the flight crashed and went up in flames. The black box can reveal data about the flight's final situation and the last-minute conversation at the cockpit. With China and Pak borders active, merit will be the criteria for new CDS appointmentOn Thursday morning, IAF chief, Air Chief Marshal VR Chaudhari visited the site of the crash along with state DGP C Sylendra Babu.Bodies of those who died in Wednesday's crash have been brought to Madras Regimental Centre from Military Hospital. The mortal remains of Bipin Rawat and Madhulika Rawat are likely to reach Delhi by Thursday evening. A video possibly captured minutes before the chopper crashed has gone viral on social media. News agency ANI shared the video, which has been captured by the local people. The authenticity of the video has not been verified.General Rawat, India's first CDS, was on a visit to the Defence Services Staff College in Wellington to address the faculty and student officers of the Staff Course when his chopper crashed near Coonoor in Tamil Nadu. General Rawat was appointed as India's first Chief of Defense Staff on December 31, 2019. He previously served as Chief of the Army Staff from January 2017 to December 2019. He was commissioned into the Indian Army in December 1978. A veteran of counterinsurgency warfare, CDS Rawat served in the most difficult terrains including Northern and Eastern commands.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/iaf-chopper-crash-blackbox-retrieved-clue-for-last-minute-cockpit-conversation-101639026661314.html
09-12-2021||India||No increase in human rights violations, says Centre, cites NHRC data||NEW DELHI: There is no increase in human rights violations in the country, the government told the Rajya Sabha on Wednesday. “As per the data made available by the NHRC, no such increase of human rights violations is noticed,” Minister of state in the Ministry of Home Affairs Nityanand Rai said in a written answer to a question by Dravida Munnetra Kazhagam MP M Shanmugam.Shanmugam sought to know whether the incidents of human rights violations in the country are increasing year after year.According to the data shared by the government, the National Human Rights Commission (NHRC) has registered 64,170 cases of human rights violations this year as on 31 October. The data shows a decline in the number of cases registered in the last three years. The number of cases registered in 2018, 2019 and 2020 are 89,584,76,628 and 74,968, respectively.The largest proportion of cases registered by NHRC were reported from Uttar Pradesh where 41,947 cases were registered in 2018, 32,693 cases in 2019, 30,164 cases in 2020 and 24,242 cases in 2021 till 31 October.NHRC has recommended a total of ₹63.67 crore as monetary relief to rights victims since 2018.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/no-increase-in-human-rights-violations-says-centre-cites-nhrc-data-101639026809146.html
09-12-2021||India||Army chopper crash: What we know about Russia-made Mi17V5 IAF helicopter||Chief of Defence Staff General Bipin Rawat, his wife Madhulika Rawat and 11 other staff died after the Mi17V5 they were flying on crashed minutes before reaching the destination in Wellington where Gen Rawat was scheduled to give a lecture. Wing Commander Prithvi Singh Chauhan flying the chopper. The exact reason for the crash is not yet known though many reports have ruled out a technical glitch and blamed bad weather for the crash. The IAF has constituted a probe and no official word is out on what led to the fatal crash.Here is all you need to know about Mi17V5 chopper1. Mi17V5 is an advanced transport helicopter which is with the Indian Air Force since 2012.2. Russian Helicopters' subsidiary Kazan manufacture Mi17V5. These choppers are equipped with the latest general of night vision devised. They also have weather radar.3. India had in 2008 signed a deal with Russia to induct 80 Mi17V5 medium-lift helicopters for strengthening its chopper fleet for humanitarian and disaster relief missions and transport operations.4. The contract was later expanded for the delivery of 151 Mi17V5 helicopters. The first batch of these helicopters came to India in September 2011.5. According to the Russian government's defence exports company Rosoboronexport, Mi-17V-5 military transport helicopter is designed to carry personnel, cargo and equipment inside the cargo cabin or on an external sling, drop tactical air assault forces and reconnaissance and sabotage groups, destroy ground targets and carry the wounded.6. According to the company, the helicopter can achieve a maximum speed of 250 km per hour.7. The helicopter is fitted with advanced TV3-117VM engines.8. Mi17V5 is the most technically advanced helicopter of Mi-8/17 family of helicopters and incorporates the best engineering solutions from previous generations of helicopters.9. This helicopter has the new PKV-8 autopilot system and a KNEI-8 avionics suite. It can carry a maximum take-off weight of 13,000 kg and a maximum payload weight of 4,000 kg.10. IAF's Mi17V5 chopper has been involved in quite a few incidents during the last decade. The recent crash-land in Arunachal Pradesh (November 8) involved this chopper. This is the latest accident involving this chopper. On June 15, 2013, one of these helicopters crashed while returning from Kedarnath on a rescue mission during the Uttarakhand floods. A total of eight people, including five crew members, were killed in this accident.Defence expert Retired Major General PK Sehgal told ANI that the Army has been using different variants of this helicopter for the last 25 to 30 years. The helicopter is battle-proven and 60 countries use it, he said.(With inputs from PTI, ANI)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/army-chopper-crash-what-we-know-about-russia-made-mi17v5-iaf-helicopter-101639023039199.html
09-12-2021||India||With China and Pak borders active, merit will be the criteria for new CDS appointment||On December 17, 2016, the Narendra Modi government appointed Bipin Rawat as India’s 27th Chief of Army Staff after superseding the then Eastern and Southern Army Commanders on grounds of merit, track record and vision. He went on to become the first Chief of Defence Staff on January 1, 2020, as well as Secretary of the newly created Department of Military Affairs (DMA). He lost his life in a Mi-17 V 5 helicopter crash in Conoor hills on Wednesday afternoon.Now that the government has a task of appointing a new CDS from the Indian Army, being by far the largest of the military service, and possibly a new Chief of Army Staff, the Modi government is expected to follow the same pattern of overall merit-cum-seniority in deciding the senior-most defence officer of the country.Given that the situation with China is tense on the Line of Actual Control (LAC) with PLA troops, tanks, rockets and missiles deployed in the Western Theatre, India will need a CDS who not only will forcefully push for the creation of military theatre commands, given the concerns in some service headquarters, as well as a General who can provide a sound single-point military advice to the government. As per rule, all the commanders in chief of the Army can be considered for the job of the CDS and seniority is not the only criteria. Simply upgrading each commander to the next step is not the way that the Modi government works as the careers of all officers under consideration will be looked at from 360 degrees and their performance during the ongoing stand-off with PLA in Ladakh. As General Rawat used to say that India is facing threat from 2.5 fronts.Also Read | Gen Rawat to be accorded full military honours; tri-service probe ordered into chopper crashWhile PM Modi will find it very difficult to match the qualities of Gen Rawat in his successor, the national security establishment will have to keep in mind the threat coming from Af-Pak region with Kabul under the military occupation of Taliban and Islamabad facing its worst economic and governance crisis with Prime Minister Imran Khan trying a leg-up on Army Chief Qamar Javed Bajwa. It is quite evident from events in Pakistan that PM Khan has turned more aggressive towards India in Kashmir and is supportive of the Taliban in Afghanistan, which appears contrary to what Gen Bajwa thinks as he fears worst radicalization in Pakistan with both Deobandi (Tehreek-e-Taliban, Pakistan) and Barelvi (Tehreek-e-Labbaik) Sunni sects up in arms.The decision of new appointments to the post of CDS and Army Chief will also have to be taken in light of the fact that 21st-century warfare is all about cyber and information warfare with Beijing not averse to spending huge sums of money and dole out stupendous freebies to get intelligence or spread misinformation. Gone are the days of infantry maneuvers and tank battles, the era of stand-off weapons has dawned with armed drones, ballistic missiles and long-range air defence systems. The situation has got more complicated with Beijing glaring at Taiwan, Australia, Japan, the US, India and even Lithuania with junior diplomats issuing threats to sovereign nations as part of wolf warrior diplomacy. The task of appointment of the new CDS or even the Army chief is not easy lest the Modi government takes a deep dive in selection. And perhaps it will.
09-12-2021||India||Cybercrimes against children went up sharply in 2020: IT ministry to Parliament||Cybercrimes committed against children in India increased sharply in 2020 over the previous year, according to the National Crime Records Bureau’s (NCRB) latest data, the information technology ministry told the Parliament on Wednesday in a written reply.“With the expansion of the internet and more and more Indians coming online, incidents of cybercrimes including crimes against children online are increasing,” the IT ministry said. Citing data from the NCRB, the ministry said that in 2019, a total of 306 cybercrime cases against children were registered, while last year, 1,102 cases were filed. The IT ministry said the government is “committed to policies and actions” to ensure safe usage of the internet, listing measures taken such as Section 67B of the IT Act, 2000, which enables stringent punishment for publishing, transmitting or viewing objectionable content relating to children. The IT ministry also told Parliament about the home ministry’s National Cyber Crime Reporting Portal, which allows citizens to report matters related to cybercrimes, with particular focus on online crimes targeting women and children.According to the NCRB’s 2020 data, Uttar Pradesh, with 170, recorded the highest number of online offences against kids, followed by Karnataka (144), Maharashtra (137), Kerala (107) and Odisha (71).||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/cybercrimes-against-children-went-up-sharply-in-2020-it-ministry-to-parliament-101639021228253.html
09-12-2021||India||General Bipin Rawat's death: Uttarakhand declares 3-day state mourning||Hours after India's first Chief of Defence Staff General Bipin Rawat met his tragic end in a helicopter crash, the Uttarakhand government on Wednesday declared a three-day state mourning to pay tributes to his passing legacy. Describing the four-star general's sudden death as an “irreparable loss” to the nation, Uttarakhand chief minister Pushkar Singh Dhami said that this state will always be proud of its son.General Bipin Laxman Singh Rawat was born in Pauri, modern-day Uttarakhand, on 16 March 1958. He belonged to the Saina village in the district, growing up in a family that had been serving in the Indian Army for multiple generations. His father, Laxman Singh Rawat was from Sainj village of the Pauri Garhwal district and rose to the rank of lieutenant-general.Bipin Rawat, too, graduated from the National Defence Academy in Khadakwasla and the Indian Military Academy in Dehradun, where he was awarded the ‘Sword of Honour’. He would, of course, later go on to become the much-venerated general of the Indian Army that he was known as, serving in various divisions of the armed forces across multiple postings before being promoted to the office of the Chief of Army Staff (COAS) and finally, India's first Chief of Defence Staff (CDS) – a post he served diligently till the time of his tragic death.General Bipin Rawat, his wife Madhulika, and 11 other officials of the Indian armed forces were killed in a helicopter crash near Coonoor in Tamil Nadu on Wednesday, the Indian Air Force said.In doleful remembrance of General Rawat's personality, Uttarakhand will be observing the three days of state mourning from December 9 to 12. In an official condolence message issued at state capital Lucknow, chief minister Dhami prayed for peace to all the departed souls who lost their lives in the accident.“The country will always remember the courageous decisions taken by him [General Bipin Rawat] for the security of the borders and the contribution made by him to keep the morale of the armed forces always high,” the Uttarakhand chief minister said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/general-bipin-rawat-s-death-uttarakhand-declares-3-day-state-mourning-101639018471396.html
09-12-2021||India||Google Year in Search 2021: Here's what India browsed on the internet this year||Google on Wednesday published its ‘Year in Search 2021’ list, which like every other year shows what was looked through the most across the world over on its search engine. While there is an overall global list displaying the international search trends throughout this year, there are also specific nation-based lists that shed a light on the regional trends which took the internet by storm in 2021. Unsurprisingly, the top three search trends in India were – Indian Premier League, CoWIN, and ICC T20 World Cup – all of which were major talking points this year. The movies which were searched for the most in the country included Jai Bhim, Shershaah, and Radhe.Coming to news events, the Google list showed that Indians were most interested in the Tokyo Olympics, Afghanistan news, and updates on black fungus. Meanwhile, personalities such as Neeraj Chopra, Aryan Khan, and Shehnaaz Gill hogged the headlines and thus reflected as the most searched for people on Google this year.-Here are the overall top trends in India:1. Indian Premier League2. CoWIN3. ICC T20 World Cup4. Euro Cup5. Tokyo OlympicsHere are the top trends in movies:1. Jai Bhim2. Shershaah3. Radhe4. Bell Bottom5. EternalsHere are the top trends in news events:1. Tokyo Olympics2. Black Fungus3. Afghanistan news4. West Bengal elections5. Tropical cyclone TauktaeHere are the most searched for personalities:1. Neeraj Chopra2. Aryan Khan3. Shehnaaz Gill4. Raj Kundra5. Elon MuskHere are the most searched for recipes:1. Enoki mushroom2. Modak3. Methi matar malai4. Palak5. Chicken soup-Meanwhile, the global search trends had ‘Australia vs India’, ‘India vs England’, and ‘IPL’ as the most searched for terms this year, even ranking above ‘NBA’ and ‘Euro 2021’ – two events considered to generate much excitement among sports aficionados.Afghanistan, AMC stocks, and the Covid-19 vaccine trended in global news stories, along with Dogecoin and GME stock. Meanwhile, Aryan Khan secured a place in most-searched-for actors worldwide (presumably a result of the high-profile Mumbai cruise raid case earlier this year), along with personalities such as Alec Baldwin, Pete Davidson, Gina Carano, and Armie Hammer.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/google-year-in-search-2021-here-s-what-india-browsed-on-the-internet-this-year-101639016028945.html
09-12-2021||NA||Parliament Winter Session Highlights: Both houses adjourned till 11am on December 10||The ongoing winter session of Parliament entered the ninth day on Thursday. The amendment bills aimed at extending the tenure of CBI, ED directors was passed by the Lok Sabha. Meanwhile, National Institute of Pharmaceutical Education and Research (Amendment) Bill, 2021, was passed in the Rajya Sabha.Both houses have been adjourned till 11am on Friday. Earlier today, Union defence minister Rajnath Singh briefed both Houses of Parliament today on the crash of the military chopper that killed chief of defence staff (CDS) General Bipin Rawat, his wife Madhulika Rawat and 11 others.Both the Houses of Parliament have been witnessing back-to-back adjournments since the commencement of the winter session. Issues that have been discussed include Nagaland firing, farm laws repeal and the suspension of 12 Rajya Sabha MPs.The 12 suspended MPs have continued their protest against their suspension, at the Gandhi Statue in Parliament premises. Since their suspension, all the 12 MPs have been regularly visiting Parliament and keep sitting near the Mahatma Gandhi statue in Parliament.On the first day, the bill to repeal the three central agricultural laws was passed in both Houses. Prime Minister Narendra Modi announced the withdrawal of the farm laws in an address to the nation on November 19.Follow all the updates here:Lok Sabha adjourned till 11am on December 10The Lok Sabha has been adjourned till 11am on December 10.Lok Sabha passes bill to extend tenure of CBI, ED chiefsLok Sabha has passed the Central Vigilance Commission (Amendment) Bill, 2021, and The Delhi Police Special Police Establishment (Amendment) Bill, 2021, aimed at extending the tenure of CBI and ED directors for up to 5 years.Jitendra Singh refutes charges of ‘arbitrariness’ in extending tenure Union minister Jitendra Singh said that the extension of tenure of CBI, ED directors would be done by following the same procedure as the selection of the chiefs.Union minister Jitendra Singh speaks in Lok Sabha“Prime Minister Narendra Modi holds CBI, CVC all these institutions in a very high esteem and the independence of these institutions is the government's top priority. And facilitating and enabling an independent functioning of these institutions is our top priority,” said Jitendra Singh. VCK leader Thirumavalavan opposes bill to extend CBI, ED directors' tenureVCK leader Thirumavalavan expressed his opposition to the amendment bills to oppose the extend the tenure of CBI, ED chiefs. He also said that the Centre's urgency to pass the two bills was questionable. Cong brought RTI act, BJP govt blocked it: JothimaniCongress MP Jothimani said that their government equipped the people with the Right to Information act against corruption while the Narendra Modi-led BJP government blocked it.‘CBI used for political purposes by ruling party’: D Ravikumar“CBI has fully changed into an organisation used for political purposes by the ruling party is an obvious truth today,” said VCK MP D Ravikumar. He also demanded that the CBI should be made an autonomous body.Asaduddin Owaisi says bills to extend CBI, ED chiefs' tenures undermines SC judgementAIMIM's Asaduddin Owaisi opposed the amendment bills to extend the tenure of CBI and ED directors. He said that the ordinances were in contravention of the Supreme Court's judgement.TMC's Saugata Roy opposes bills to extend CBI, ED chiefsSaugata Roy of the All India Trinamool Congress expressed his opposition to amendment bills regarding the extension of tenure of ED and CBI directors. RS adjourned till 11am on FridayRajya Sabha was adjourned till 11am on Friday (December 10).National Institute of Pharmaceutical Education and Research (Amendment) Bill, 2021, passed in RSRajya Sabha passed the National Institute of Pharmaceutical Education and Research (Amendment) Bill, 2021.Mandaviya thanks pharmacists, workers, others for ensuring medicine supply during Covid-19Before speaking on this Bill, I thank 10 lakh pharmacists&workers,CEOs,MDs,Chairmen who ensured medicine supply in India during fight against COVID&supplied medicines to 150 nations: Health Min in RS on National Institute of Pharmaceutical Education & Research(Amendment)Bill,2021 pic.twitter.com/RSzp3lhtv2Union health minister Mansukh Mandaviya thanked the pharmacists and workers, CEOs, MDs, Chairmen for ensuring “medicine supply in India during fight against Covid and supplied medicines to 150 nations,” reports ANI. He was addressing the Rajya Sabha during the discussion on National Institute of Pharmaceutical Education & Research(Amendment)Bill,2021.Supriya Sule alleges ‘vindictive raids’ on opposition members“All your allies have cases against them. When they were your allies there were no cases against them but the minute they left you, all the cases have started. They have had raids, their colleagues had raids. Please stop this vindictive business,” said NCP's Supriya Sule in Lok Sabha.Supriya Sule questions multiple ED raids on Anil Deshmukh's residence, questioning of family members Supriya Sule said that the Enforcement Directorate raided the residence of former Maharashtra minister Anil Deshmukh seven times and asked what was missed in the first six times. She also alleged that the agencies were “questioning” the family members of those involved in the case and questioned the reason behind it. Supriya Sule opposes bills to extend tenures of CBI, ED directorsNationalist Congress Party's Supriya Sule asked Union minister Jitendra Singh that how would the change in tenure affect the issues mentioned by Singh in his opening remarks. BJD questions bills to amend tenures of ED, CBI directors Bhartruhari Mahtab of the Biju Janata Dal (BJD) questions the move to bring an amendment bill regarding the tenures of the CBI and ED directors. Lok Sabha discusses bills related to the extension of tenures of ED and CBI directorsThe Lok Sabha is discussing bills related to the extension of tenures of Enforcement Directorate (ED) and Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI) directors. Home Minister misled Parliament on Nagaland, claims Adhir ChowdhuryCongress leader Adhir Ranjan Chowdhury on Thursday claimed that Union home minister Amit Shah “misled” the Lok Sabha when he said that security forces had opened fire on civilians in Nagaland after they tried to flee.Rajya Sabha takes into consideration National Institute of Pharmaceutical Education and Research (Amendment) Bill, 2021Rajya Sabha takes into consideration National Institute of Pharmaceutical Education and Research (Amendment) Bill, 2021.Lok Sabha proceedings resumeThe Lok Sabha proceedings have resumed.Lok Sabha adjourned till 2:30 pm todayThe Lok Sabha has been adjourned till 2:30 pm today.Not allowed to pay tribute to  General Bipin Rawat, says LoP in RS Mallikarjun Kharge“After Defence Minister's statement in Rajya Sabha, Opposition demanded 1-2 minutes for each MP to pay tribute to CDS Gen Bipin Rawat & others who died in the chopper crash. But we were not allowed. It is unfortunate and we condemn this attitude,” news agency ANI quoted the leader of the opposition in Rajya Sabha, Mallikarjun Kharge, as saying.CPI(M) MP V Sivadasan moves suspension of business notice in RS to discuss chopper crashCommunist Party of India (Marxist) MP, V Sivadasan, on Thursday moved a notice for the suspension of business under rule 267 in Rajya Sabha to discuss the crash of the IAF helicopter at Coonoor and the tragic death of the chief of defence staff, General Bipin Rawat and 12 others.Opposition decides not to protest against the suspension of Rajya Sabha MPs today to honour victims of chopper crashThe leader of opposition in Rajya Sabha, Mallikarjun Kharge, said that they have decided not to protest against the suspension of 12 Rajya Sabha MPs today in honour of CDS Bipin Rawat and other soldiers who died in the chopper crash on Wednesday.Last rites of CDS General Bipin Rawat to be performed with full military honours, says Rajnath Singh“The last rites of CDS General Bipin Rawat will be performed with full military honours. The last rites of other military personnel will be performed with appropriate military honour,” Rajnath Singh told  the Lok Sabha.Rajya Sabha observes 2-minute silence for victims of military chopper crashThe Rajya Sabha observeed a two-minute silence for chief of defence staff General Bipin Rawat, his wife, and other personnel who died in a military helicopter crash near Coonoor, Tamil Nadu, on Wednesday.Investigation in military chopper crash will be led by Air Marshal Manavendra Singh, Rajnath tells Lok SabhaThe Indian Air Force (IAF) has ordered a tri-service inquiry into the military chopper crash, defence minister informed Parliament, adding the investigation in the military chopper crash will be led by Air Marshal Manavendra Singh.Mortal remains of all IAF chopper crash victims will be brought back to Delhi by evening, says RajnathThe mortal remains of all IAF chopper crash victims will be brought back to Delhi by evening, said Rajnath Singh.All efforts being made to save Group Captain: Rajnath tell ParliamentDefence Minister Rajnath Singh informed Parliament on Thursday that all efforts being made to save Group Captain Varun Singh, who is on life support.Rajnath Singh briefs Lok Sabha on helicopter crashRajnath Singh begins briefing Parliament on the helicopter crash in Tamil Nadu that killed 13 people on Wednesday.PM Modi holds meeting with senior ministers in Parliament, reports ANIPrime Minister Narendra Modi is holding a meeting with senior ministers in Parliament, reported news agency ANI. Union ministers Amit Shah, Rajnath Singh, Pralhad Joshi, Nirmala Sitharaman, and Anurag Singh Thakur are among the attendees.Rajnath Singh reaches Parliament, to issue statement on helicopter crash shortlyDefence Minister Rajnath Singh reaches Parliament. He will make a statement in Lok Sabha at 11 am followed by the statement in Rajya Sabha on the military helicopter crash in Tamil Nadu. pic.twitter.com/9TAgyJekmiDefence Minister Rajnath Singh has reached Parliament where he will issue a statement on the military helicopter crash in Tamil Nadu shortly.Rajnath Singh to issue statement on chopper crash in Parliament todayDefence Minister Rajnath Singh will make a statement in Lok Sabha at 11 am today followed by the statement at Rajya Sabha on the military helicopter crash in Tamil Nadu. (File pic) pic.twitter.com/jy3HaVSg7lDefence minister Rajnath Singh will on Thursday issue a statement on chopper crash that killed 13 people, including chief of defence staff General Bipin. He is expected to brief the Rajya Sabha at 11.30am and the Lok Sabha at around 11am.Mansukh Mandaviya to move 'National Institute of Pharmaceutical Education & Research (Amendment) Bill 2021' in RS todayUnion health minister Mansukh Mandaviya to move 'The National Institute of Pharmaceutical Education & Research (Amendment) Bill 2021' in Rajya Sabha for consideration & passing on Thursday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/parliament-winter-session-live-updates-december-9-2021-101639014059109.html
09-12-2021||India||Who was Madhulika Rawat, wife of CDS Bipin Rawat, killed in Army chopper crash?||Madhulika Rawat, the wife of General Bipin Rawat, was on board the Mi-17V5 that crashed in Tamil Nadu's Coonoor on Wednesday killing 13. Bipin Rawat was going to Defence Services Staff College in Wellington to deliver a lecture. Minutes before the copter reached its destination, it crashed.Madhulika Rawat was the president of the Army Wives Welfare Association and was actively engaged in social services.Here are 7 things to know about Madhulika Rawat:1. A native of Madhya Pradesh's Shahdol, Madhulika Rawat got married to Bipin Rawat in 1986. They are survived by two daughters. One lives in Mumbai and the other daughter stayed with them.2. Madhulika did her schooling in Gwalior's Scindia Kanya Vidyalaya and studied psychology at Delhi University.Mortal remains of CDS Bipin Rawat will reach Delhi today; Rajnath to brief Parliament3. Madhulika got married to Bipin Rawat when Rawar was a captain in the Army.4. Madhulika Rawat's family currently lives in the ancestral residence 'Rajabagh' in the Shahdol district headquarters.5. Her father Mrighendra Singh was the Riyasatdar of Shadol district's Sohagpur Riyasat. He was also a Congress MLA from the district in 1967 and 1972.General Bipin Rawat wanted to visit wife's ancestral home next year, says kin6. Chhattisgarh minister TS Singhdeo said Madhulika Rawat was a close family associate and used to visit them in Bhopal often. "Madhulika ji, wife of Late Gen Bipin Rawat was a close family associate. She was the daughter of Late Shri Mrigendra Singh ji of Suhagpur(MP) and used to visit us often in Bhopal. My heart goes out to their families. May they find strength to deal with this unimaginable loss," the minister tweeted.7. As a key functionary of the Army Wives Welfare Association, Madhulika Rawat was instrumental in several welfare programmes for Army widows.Madhulika's Rawat's brother Yashwardhan Singh said he had met Bipin Rawat for the last time on the occasion of Dusshera in Delhi when Rawat had promised that he would visit Madhulika's ancestral village Shahdil and provide assistance in setting up a Sainik school.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/who-was-madhulika-rawat-wife-of-cds-bipin-rawat-killed-in-army-chopper-crash-101639012846583.html
09-12-2021||India||'Close friend', 'pioneer': Condolences pour in from around the world on death of General Rawat||Condolences poured from across the world as various world leaders mourned the tragic demise of India's first Chief of Defense Staff General Bipin Rawat in a helicopter crash in Tamil Nadu.US Secretary of Defense Lloyd J Austin III on Wednesday (local time) said that they are "deeply saddened by this loss" and extended prayers to the bereaved family. "I and the Department extend our deepest condolences to the Rawat family, the Indian military, and the people of India after the tragic passing of Chief of Defense Staff General Bipin Rawat in a helicopter crash," said the senior US official.United Nations's chief Antonio Guterres also expressed his "heartfelt condolences" on the loss, his spokesperson Stephane Dujarric informed on Wednesday. He also remembered General Rawat's work with the United Nations as Brigade Commander of the North Kivu Brigade of the UN peacekeeping mission in the Congo (MONUC) in 2008 and 2009.The UN chief expresses his heartfelt condolences to the families of the deceased and to the people and Government of India, Dujarric told reporters in New York. “As you may recall, General Rawat served the United Nations with distinction and we fully appreciated that work," Dujarric added.Taking to Twitter to mourn the loss, Russian Envoy to India Nikolay Kudashev said, his country has lost a very "close friend". "Russia has lost a very close friend, who played a big role in promotion of our bilateral special and privileged strategic partnership. Grieving together with India. Goodbye, friend! Farewell, commander!" he tweeted.British High Commissioner Alex Ellis also tweeted his condolences and said, "Gen Rawat was a wise man, a brave soldier, a pioneer and a generous host to me only weeks ago. We mourn his death and that of his wife, and all killed in this terrible accident."Meanwhile, remembering General Rawat, Australian High Commissioner to India Barry O'Farrell said "Australia-India relationship thrived during his tenure," according to news agency PTI.A chopper with General Rawat, his wife Madhulika and 12 other people on board crashed near Coonoor in Tamil Nadu on Wednesday afternoon. The crash resulted in the deaths of 13 people including General Rawat and his wife. The lone survivor, group captain Varun Singh, is currently under treatment at a military hospital in Wellington, the Indian Air Force said.His mortal remains will reach Delhi on Thursday. On Friday his last rites will be done at Delhi Cantonment.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/close-friend-pioneer-condolences-pour-in-from-around-the-world-on-death-of-general-rawat-101639012224569.html
09-12-2021||India||General Bipin Rawat played key role in cementing India-US defence ties: US||General Bipin Rawat, India’s first Chief of Defence Staff who died in a helicopter crash in Tamil Nadu, was a strong proponent of India-US defence ties and helped deepen the strategic partnership between the two countries, a senior US official has said.General Rawat, his wife Madhulika, and 11 other people on board an Indian Air Force helicopter died in a crash near Coonoor in Tamil Nadu on Wednesday, the Air Force said.The copter carrying General Rawat and his entourage crashed in apparently foggy conditions, killing the 13 people on board, the IAF and other officials said. One person survived the crash and is being treated at a hospital."We are deeply saddened to hear of the death of Indian Chief of Defence Staff General Bipin Rawat, his wife, and 11 others in that tragic helicopter crash in India today. General Rawat was a valued partner,” State Department Spokesperson Ned Price said at his daily news conference on Wednesday."He was a strong proponent of the US-India defence partnership. He helped to deepen the strategic partnership between our two countries. He was pivotal to that relationship, and that's why our thoughts go out to the general's family, to the families of all those on board this flight, and, of course, to the people of India on the loss that they have suffered today,” Price said.Pentagon Press Secretary John Kirby, at a separate news conference, said that on behalf of the entire Department of Defense, Defense Secretary Lloyd Austin extends their deepest condolences to the Rawat family, the Indian military, and the people of India after the tragic death of General Rawat in a helicopter crash."He left an indelible mark on the course of the US-India defence partnership and was at the center of the Indian Armed Forces' transformation into a more jointly integrated warfighting organisation,” Kirby said.'The secretary had the privilege of meeting with him earlier this year and really came to view him as a valued partner and a friend to the United States. Our thoughts and prayers are with the entire Rawat family, as they lost other family members in this crash, and of course the families of all the other victims of this terrible, terrible incident,” he told reporters.Several top American lawmakers expressed their condolences at the demise of the Indian general in a tragic incident.“I send my deepest condolences to Narendra Modi & the people of India as they mourn the tragic deaths of General Bipin Rawat, his wife, Madhulika Rawat, & the 11 other crew members & passengers lost,” said Senator Rick Scott.“India is strong and during this time of grief the United States stands with you,” he tweeted.“My deepest condolences to the people of India after the tragic death of General Bipin Rawat, head of India’s armed forces, his wife & 12 others today. My thoughts & prayers are with their families,” tweeted Senator Bill Hagerty.“My most sincere condolences to the people of India and their armed forces for the lives lost in today’s tragic aviation incident. I will continue to do all I can to help our partnership grow into an enduring force for overcoming this and future adversities," Congressman Michael McCaul said in a tweet.“Please join me in praying for India today after this staggering loss,” Congressman Mark Green said in a tweet.General Rawat is survived by two daughters.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/general-bipin-rawat-played-key-role-in-cementing-india-us-defence-ties-us-101639011430580.html
09-12-2021||India||General Bipin Rawat wanted to visit wife's ancestral home next year, says kin||Chief of Defence Staff (CDS) Bipin Rawat, who lost his life in service to India after meeting with a tragic air accident on Wednesday, had been an army man to the core – dedicated to serving the nation till the very end. Talking to the PTI news agency, Rawat's brother-in-law Yashwardhan Singh recalled how the four-star general had promised to visit his wife's ancestral home at Madhya Pradesh's Shahdol in January next year and set up a ‘sainik school’ in the district to help underprivileged students prepare themselves to be inducted to the armed forces.Also Read | First among Generals: CDS Rawat was a fauji to the coreThe Indian Army's much-venerated general shared a strong bond with Shahdol. He got married to Madhulika, the daughter of late Kunwar Mrigendra Singh of Sohagpur Garhi in the Shahdol district, back in 1986 when he was still a captain in the army.Chief of Defence Staff (CDS) Bipin Rawat, who lost his life in service to India after meeting with a tragic air accident on Wednesday, had been an army man to the core – dedicated to serving the nation till the very end. Talking to the PTI news agency, Rawat's brother-in-law Yashwardhan Singh recalled how the four-star general had promised to visit his wife's ancestral home at Madhya Pradesh's Shahdol in January next year and set up a ‘sainik school’ in the district to help underprivileged students prepare themselves to be inducted to the armed forces.Also Read | First among Generals: CDS Rawat was a fauji to the coreThe Indian Army's much-venerated general shared a strong bond with Shahdol. He got married to Madhulika, the daughter of late Kunwar Mrigendra Singh of Sohagpur Garhi in the Shahdol district, back in 1986 when he was still a captain in the army.|#+|On Wednesday, Madhulika also happened to be in the Mi-17V5 military helicopter that crashed near Coonoor in Tamil Nadu. The Indian Air Force (IAF) later confirmed that she, along with her husband and 11 other armed forces personnel, had died in the accident. The sole survivor from the chopper crash a day prior is group captain Varun Singh, presently fighting for his life at a military hospital in Wellington.Speaking to PTI regarding the incident, Madhulika Rawat's brother Yashwardhan Singh said that he received information about the chopper crash on the phone. While in Bhopal at the time, he later rushed to Delhi in a special flight arranged by the Indian Army.“My mother, who is quite old and is in Shahdol, will also leave for Delhi late at night along with the army officials from Jabalpur,” Singh said. “So far, she is not aware of this tragic incident and a close relative will soon reach our ancestral home to tell her about the crash. The officials are reaching Shahdol to accompany her.”Also Read | Mortal remains of CDS Rawat will reach Delhi today; Rajnath to brief ParliamentGeneral Bipin Laxman Singh Rawat's brother-in-law also looked back to 2012 when the army man made his last visit to Shahdol.“I met him for the last time on the occasion of Dusshera festival recently in Delhi, when my daughter Bandhvi, returned from Peru, South America after taking part in the world shooting championship,” said Yashwardhan Singh, General Rawat's brother-in-law, to PTI. “At that time, he had promised us that he would visit Shahdol positively in January 2022 and also assured to provide a sainik school in the district as it has a sizable number of tribal population.”Singh added, “He [General Rawat] had asked me to discuss the matter with the local MP and ministers so that it can be worked out.”Madhulika Rawat's family currently lives in the ancestral residence 'Rajabagh' in the Shahdol district headquarter. The Rawat couple is survived by two daughters, one of who lives in Mumbai, and the other one lived with them.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/general-bipin-rawat-wanted-to-visit-wife-s-ancestral-home-next-year-says-kin-101639007414026.html
09-12-2021||NA||LIVE: All 9 Omicron patients in Jaipur test negative for Covid-19||Welcome to hindustantimes.com live updates platform where you can find breaking news from India and across the world. Find fast updates about the latest news as it breaks. Follow all the updates here:Kolkata bound SpiceJet flight returns to Mumbai after take offA Kolkata bound SpiceJet flight that departed from Mumbai returned to the financial city after take off owing to a technical issue, according to an airline spokesperson. The flight landed safely in Mumbai.Reports of all 9 Omicron patients in Rajasthan comes out negativeThe reports of all nine Omicron patients admitted in Jaipur's RUHS hospital in Rajasthan has come out as negative, news agency ANI reported. They all have been discharged from the hospital, and advised to stay in home quarantine for the next seven days, ANI reported citing the state health department.Army, Navy and IAF chiefs pay last respects to CDS RawatThe 3 service chiefs - Army Chief Gen MM Naravane, Navy Chief Admiral R Hari Kumar & IAF chief Air Chief Marshal VR Chaudhari pay last respects to CDS Gen Bipin Rawat, his wife Madhulika Rawat & other 11 Armed Forces personnel who lost their lives in military chopper crash y'day. pic.twitter.com/HoXt8Jw0U6The three service chiefs , Indian Army chief General MM Naravane, Navy chief Admiral R Hari Kumar and IAF chief Air Chief Marshal VR Chaudhari pay last respects to CDS General Bipin Rawat, his wife Madhulika Rawat and 11 other Armed Forces personnel.PM pays tribute to CDS Rawat, his wife & othersPrime Minister Narendra Modi pays last respects to CDS General Bipin Rawat, his wife Madhulika Rawat and other 11 Armed Forces personnel who lost their lives in the #TamilNaduChopperCrash yesterday. pic.twitter.com/QT3JHKTedqPM Narendra Modi pays last respects to CDS Bipin Rawat, his wife Madhulika and others, who died in the IAF chopper crash in Tamil Nadu yesterday.PM Modi arrives at Palam air base to pay tribute to CDS Rawat, his wife and othersPrime Minister Narendra Modi has arrived at the Palam airport in Delhi to pay respects to CDS general Bipin Rawat, his wife Madhulika Rawat and 11 Armed Forces personnel, who died in the IAF chopper crash in Tamil Nadu yesterday.Bangladesh Armed Forces principal staff officer Waker-us-Zaman to attend CDS Rawat's funeral on Friday in DelhiLieutenant General Waker us-Zaman, principal staff officer, Armed Forces Division of Bangladesh, is going to be attending CDS' General Bipin Rawat's funeral in Delhi. He will reach the national capital via Doha, and will arrive at 8am on Friday.Defence minister Rajnath Singh reaches Palam air base in DelhiDelhi | Defence Minister Rajnath Singh meets families of CDS General Bipin Rawat and other Armed Forces personnel who lost their lives in Tamil Nadu chopper crash yesterday, at Palam airbase pic.twitter.com/vPhALuWWHDDefence minister Rajnath Singh has reached Delhi's Palam air base. He met with the families of CDS general Bipin Rawat and his wife Madhulika Rawat, and other Armed Forces personnel who lost their lives in Wednesday's chopper crash in Tamil Nadu.IAF aircraft from Sulur arrives at Palam airbase, CDS Rawat's body brought out#WATCH | The mortal remains of #CDSGeneralBipinRawat who lost his life in #TamilNaduChopperCrash yesterday, being brought out of IAF aircraft that arrived at Palam airbase from Sulur. (Source: DD) pic.twitter.com/LdIkHzmgGiThe IAF aircraft has landed in Delhi's Palam airbase form Coimbatore's Sulur. CDS General Rawat's body has also been brought out. Read more.EU medicines agency says Omicron cases so far appear 'mostly mild'The European Union (EU) medicines agency says that cases of Omicron variant of Covid-19, which has rapidly spread across the globe, so far appear 'mostly mild', AFP reported on Thursday.Suspension of scheduled international commercial flights to and from India extended till January 31India has extended the suspension of scheduled international commercial flights to and from the country till January 31, 2022. Read more.Doctors decided to resume emergency services in Delhi after strike over delay in NEET-PG 2021 counsellingThe Resident Doctors Association of Maulana Azad Medical College and associated hospitals in Delhi have decided to resume emergency services, after strike over the delay in NEET-PG 2021 counselling.Group Captain Varun Singh shifted to Bengaluru's Command HospitalThe lone survivor of IAF chopper crash Group Captain Varun Singh has been shifted to Bengaluru's Command Hospital for further treatment, ANI reported.PM to pay tribute to CDS Bipin Rawat, other armed forces personnel around 9pm todayPrime Minister Narendra Modi will pay respects to late CDS General Bipin Rawat and other Armed forces personnel at around 9pm today, ANI reported. Defence minister Rajnath Singh, MoS defence Ahay Bhatt, NSA Ajit Doval, and three services chiefs will also be in attendance.CBI arrests brother of TMC youth wing leader in illegal coal smuggling caseThe CBI on Thursday held Bikash Mishra, brother of TMC youth wing leader Binay Mishra, accused in the illegal coal smuggling case ANI reported. Bikash was arrested at a private hospital in Kolkata where is currently undergoing treatment.‘We’ll take time to recover from this loss': Lt General DP Pandey, GOC, Srinagar's Chinar Corps on CDS General Rawat's demiseLieutenant General DP Pandey, GOC, Srinagar's Chinar Corps, on Thursday paid homage to late CDS General Bipin Rawat at the Sherwani Community Hall in Baramulla. Speaking to ANI, he said that it will take time for them to recover from the CDS's untimely demise. “The connection he (CDS Gen Rawat) had with the people of Uri, Baramulla and Kashmir was like no other,” Lt Pandey was quoted as saying.Singapore removed from India's 'at risk' list for additional travel measuresIndia has removed Singapore from its list of ‘at risk’ nations, travellers from where need to follow additional measures on arrival.‘We’ll have to think': Maharashtra Dy CM on Rahul Gandhi's visit to Maharashtra amid rising Omicron casesMaharashtra deputy CM and Congress leader Ajit Pawar said that the state will have to “think” about party leader Rahul Gandhi's visit to Mumbai on December 28 if Omicron Covid-19 variant cases continue to rise in the state, ANI reported. Currently, there are 10 reported Omicron cases in Maharashtra, the highest in India of the total 23 infections reported so far. Read more.School uniform in all government schools in Rajasthan to change from next academic yearStudents in government schools in Rajasthan will have a new uniform from next academic year, according to an order by the state government. The  Congress government in the northern state had claimed the uniform resembled that of RSS in 2017 when BJP was in power.Farmers to vacate protest sites on December 11, SKM to hold meeting on Jan 15Protesting farmers will vacate the protest sites in Delhi borders on December 11, reports ANI quoting farmer leader Darshan Pal Singh.Centre sends formal letter to SKM on agreed agendaThe Centre has sent a formal letter to SKM on agreed agenda and a panel on MSP as farm leaders meet to decide on ending year-long protests.4 Olympic diplomatic boycott nations will 'pay the price': ChinaChina says four Olympic diplomatic boycott nations will 'pay the price,' news agency AFP reports.Lone survivor of Amry chopper crash being shifted to Bengaluru: FatherIAF Group Captain Varun Singh, the lone survivor of the helicopter crash that killed Chief of Defence Staff Gen Bipin Rawat and 12 others, is being shifted to Bengaluru from the Army hospital at Wellington in Tamil Nadu, his father said on Thursday.Vehicles carrying mortal remains of chopper crash victims leave for Sulur airbaseVehicles carrying mortal remains of CDS Bipin Rawat, his wife and other personnel who died in the Coonoor chopper crash, leave for Sulur airbase from Madras Regimental Centre in Nilgiris district. The mortal remains will be taken to Delhi by air.Suspicious explosion in Rohini court; 7 fire tenders on spotA suspicious explosion took place at Rohini Court today morning, reports news agency ANI. Seven fire tenders were rushed to the spot, it also said. More details awaited.Pakistan reports first case of Omicron variantPakistan on Thursday reported its first case of the Omicron variant of coronavirus in Sindh province. A private hospital in the city of Karachi reported the first case of the variant in a 65-year-old female patient, Geo News reported citing the provincial health department.Farmers end year-long protests against farm laws variantFarmers agitating against the three legislation, ended their year-long protests on Thursday, after the government agreed to their all of their demands.Their demands:1. Withdrawal of all the agitation related cases registered during this protest in all states/ UTs/ Central Govt agencies etc.2. Compensation to all the families of the agitating farmers died during the course of agitation.3. No criminal liability of the Farmers in case of stubble burning.4. Govt to discuss electricity amendment bill with SKM/ farmers before discussing it in the Parliament.5. Committee on MSP formed; SKM to list out their members in the committee and give it to farmers.6. Ongoing MSP in the country and procurement will continue as it is.Mortal remains of all IAF chopper crash victims to reach Delhi today: Rajnth SinghMortal remains of all IAF chopper crash victims will be brought back to Delhi by evening, informes Defence Minister Rajnath Singh at Parliament.Rajnath SIngh to give statement on chopper crash todayDefence Minister Rajnath Singh will make a statement in Lok Sabha at 11 am today on the military helicopter crash in Tamil Nadu.Health secretary to discuss Covid-19 situation with states todayHealth secretary Rajesh Bhushan to hold video conference with states to discuss the prevailing Covid-19 situation in the country. Priyanka Gandhi Vadra to launch poll campaign in Goa todayCongress Party General Secretary Priyanka Gandhi Vadra is set to launch a poll campaign in Goa from December 10, for the upcoming state Assembly polls.IAF chief Air Chief Marshal VR Chaudhari reaches the chopper crash site#WATCH | IAF chief Air Chief Marshal VR Chaudhari reaches the chopper crash site near Coonoor in Nilgiris district of Tamil Nadu13 people including CDS General Bipin Rawat and his wife lost their lives in the accident on Wednesday. pic.twitter.com/djgoBu6Y4BIndoor air pollution 20 times limit prescribed by WHO, shows studyThe indoor air pollution levels in Delhi homes is more than 20 times the World Health Organisation (WHO) standards, a study by the Energy Policy Institute at the University of Chicago (EPIC India) has shown. Read MoreDemands met, farmers likely to call off 14-month agitation todayThe Samyukt Kisan Morcha (SKM) on Wednesday announced that their 14-month agitation will be called off at 12pm on Thursday, but only after receiving the final copy of the Union government’s revised proposal which has accepted their demands.Mortal remains of CDS Bipin Rawat will reach Delhi today; Rajnath to brief ParliamentDefence minister Rajnath Singh will brief both the Houses of Parliament on the military chopper crash near Coonoor that killed 13, including chief of defence staff General Bipin Rawat. Rawat was on his way to the Defence Services Staff College in Wellington to attend a programme. Minutes before reaching the destination in Wellington, the chopper crashed. Tributes poured in for General Rawat, the first chief of defence staff of India. Read More||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/breaking-news-live-december-9-2021-101639009598843.html
09-12-2021||India||Mortal remains of CDS Bipin Rawat will reach Delhi today; Rajnath to brief Parliament||Defence minister Rajnath Singh will brief both the Houses of Parliament on the military chopper crash near Coonoor that killed 13, including chief of defence staff General Bipin Rawat. Rawat was on his way to the Defence Services Staff College in Wellington to attend a programme. Minutes before reaching the destination in Wellington, the chopper crashed. Tributes poured in for General Rawat, the first chief of defence staff of India.Here are the latest updates1. The mortal remains of Bipin Rawat and his wife are expected to arrive in Delhi on a military plane by Thursday evening.2. The last rites will be performed on Friday in Delhi Cantonment. The bodies would be kept in their house from 11am to 2pm for people to pay their last respect. The funeral procession will start from Kamraj Marg to Brar Square crematorium.Also Read: First among Generals: CDS Rawat was a fauji to the core3. The Uttarakhand government has declared a three-day state mourning from December 9 over the sudden demise of Bipin Rawat.4. The Cabinet Committee on Security met on Wednesday following the chopper crash. National security adviser Ajit Doval, principal secretary to Prime Minister PK Misra and cabinet Secretary Rajiv Gauba attended the meeting in which the CCS members were briefed about the tragic incident.5. Congress President Sonia Gandhi has appealed to the party workers to not celebrate her birthday on Thursday.6. The United States, Russia, China and Pakistan have expressed their condolence over the demise of Gen Rawat.7. The IAF has ordered a probe into the crash as nothing much is known about how the accident took place. Initial reports indicate that poor visibility might be the reason. The Mi17V5 helicopter is an advanced military transport chopper with the Indian Air Force since 2012. Wing Commander Prithvi Singh Chauhan was the pilot of the ill-fated chopper.8. The rescue became a challenge as the chopper crashed on difficult terrain. Local witnesses said they have never heard a blast like that.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/mortal-remains-of-cds-bipin-rawat-will-reach-delhi-today-rajnath-to-brief-parliament-101639008211250.html
09-12-2021||India||Pentagon condoles CDS Gen Rawat's death in Coonoor chopper crash||The Pentagon top officials on Wednesday (local time) including Secretary of Defense Lloyd J Austin III, Joint Chiefs of Staff Chairman Gen Mark Milley and Pentagon spokesperson John Kirby condoled the demise of India's first CDS, General Bipin Rawat."We are deeply saddened by the loss of General Bipin Rawat, the Indian Chief of Defence Staff, his wife, and eleven others who died in a tragic helicopter crash. As India's first chief of defence, he made a lasting impact on the Indian military and reinforced our strong military-to-military relationship between the US and India," said Milley's statement.US's top military commander also shared that both Rawat and his wife Dr Madhulika, who too died in the crash had spent time with him and his spouse Hollyanne Milley."Hollyanne and I spent time with Gen Rawat and his wife, Dr Madhulika Rawat, during their visit to the US in September. We feel this loss deeply, we are thankful to have met them, and we feel grateful for their life of service," added Milley.India's first Chief of Defense Staff General Bipin Rawat was among 13 people killed in a helicopter crash on Wednesday afternoon in Tamil Nadu, the Indian Air Force confirmed.Apart from Gen Rawat and his wife, two other senior military officers, five commandos and five Air Force personnel were all killed in the crash. The helicopter crashed around noon shortly after it took off from the Air Force base in Sulur, Coimbatore, for Wellington in the Nilgiri Hills.Another senior military officer is being treated in a hospital for severe burns.Pentagon spokesperson John Kirby opened today's briefing with condolences to the lives lost, including Gen Rawat. Kirby readout US Secretary of Defense Lloyd J Austin III statement."Our deepest condolences to the Rawat family, the Indian military, and the people of India after the tragic death of Chief of Defense Staff General Bipin Rawat in a helicopter crash and the families of the other victims of the crash," said Kirby.Secretary Austin said that the department and he are "deeply saddened by this loss"."Our thoughts and prayers are with the Rawat family and the families of the other victims of the crash. We are deeply saddened by this loss," said Austin."I and the Department extend our deepest condolences to the Rawat family, the Indian military, and the people of India after the tragic passing of Chief of Defense Staff General Bipin Rawat in a helicopter crash," added Austin.Sharing his experience of working with Rawat he said that he left an indelible mark on the course of the US-India defense partnership."General Rawat left an indelible mark on the course of the US-India defense partnership and was at the center of the Indian Armed Forces' transformation into a more jointly integrated warfighting organization," said Austin.Back in September Gen Bipin Rawat was in Washington D.C. for a visit - just days after Prime Minister Narendra Modi returned from a tour to the United States.During his stay in Washington D.C., Gen Rawat met the top brass of the US Army. His visit also set the stage for Defence Minister Rajnath Singh's stateside visit for a meeting with his counterpart Secretary of Defence, Lloyd Austin, later this year.Taranjit Singh Sandhu, Ambassador of India to the United States also expressed his shock and sadness over the tragic demise of CDS Gen Bipin Rawat, his wife and 11 personnel from our Armed Forces."Deeply shocked and saddened at the tragic demise of CDS Gen Bipin Rawat, his wife and 11 personnel from our Armed Forces. Had the privilege to interact with CDS and Mrs Rawat in Colombo as well as in Washington DC recently. Condolences and prayers. RIP," tweeted Taranjit Sandhu.Rawat, 63, became India's first Chief of Defense Staff in January 2019, a newly created position designed to better integrate India's three core military branches, the Army, Air Force, and Navy. He previously served as Chief of the Army Staff from January 2017 to December 2019.A veteran of counterinsurgency warfare, CDS Rawat served in the most difficult terrains including northern and eastern commands. CDS Rawat was commissioned into the Indian Army in December 1978.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/pentagon-condoles-cds-gen-rawat-s-demise-in-chopper-crash-101639003704252.html
09-12-2021||India||‘Shouldn’t have been on bench that heard harassment charge’: Gogoi||Former Chief Justice of India (CJI) Ranjan Gogoi said on Wednesday that he should have ideally avoided sitting in the Supreme Court bench which initiated the suo motu (on its own motion) proceedings in the wake of sexual harassment allegations levelled against him.“In hindsight, my presence in the bench could have been avoided... I should not have been a judge on that bench. I accept it,” justice Gogoi, now a Rajya Sabha MP, told HT as he spoke on the sidelines of launch of his memoir ‘Justice for the Judge’.The former CJI added: “But one must also realise that the situation was unprecedented. For the first time in the history of the Supreme Court of India, such allegations had been levelled against a CJI. A reputation built over nearly 45 years in the Bar and on the Bench was sought to be destroyed.Then I was told that petition was to be filed to stop me from attending to any judicial or administrative work.”A controversy had erupted after justice Gogoi presided over a three-judge bench on April 20, 2019 after the accusations of sexual harassment surfaced against him. Although he chose not to sign the order of the day, his very presence on the bench was questioned on the premise of conflict of interest since the matter involved him directly.After the first hearing on April 20, the case titled as “In Re: Matter of great public importance touching upon the independence of judiciary” was heard by a different bench in the top court. The case was wrapped up by the court this February.Justice Gogoi said that he could come up with little options but to be assertive in his actions following the tirade against him. “However, in hindsight, I acknowledge that it might have been better If I was not part of the bench,” said the former CJI.“We all make mistakes. We often think we could have done something in a more appropriate way. Even the judges are human and they can make mistakes. There is no harm in accepting it. At least, I have no qualms accepting that I could have avoided being a part of that bench,” said justice Gogoi. At the same time, he added that there was no order passed by the bench on that day affecting the case on merits.In his book, reviewed by HT, the former CJI has written: “My presence in the bench, which in hindsight could have been avoided, was the expression of indignation roused on the spur of the moment by an accusation which was beyond belief and comprehension. Though I was on the bench, I did not sign the order. In fact, no effective judicial order was passed on that day.”About the morning of April 20, justice Gogoi has written that he had rung up attorney general KK Venugopal and solicitor general Tushar Mehta, besides the president of the Supreme Court Bar Association after coming to know that there was a plan to stop him from working as a CJI until he was cleared of the allegations. It was S-G Tushar Mehta who requested that a bench be constituted to decide whether judicial orders should be passed.“I reflected upon the matter and soon concluded that aggression would be the best form of defence in the circumstances. I had no options,” reads the book.
09-12-2021||India||ED raids Kerala PFI offices, leaders’ houses over money-laundering charges||The Enforcement Directorate (ED) on Wednesday raided several offices and houses of the Popular Front of India (PFI) leaders in different locations across Kerala in connection with an ongoing investigation into money laundering charges, officials said.People close to the central agency said they received a tip-off that a huge amount was transferred from west Asian countries to the PFI leaders, allegedly being used to foment trouble in the country. Officials said they got clinching evidence in this regard during the raids. But the organization has stoutly denied these charges. “It is a cheap harassment tactic carried out by the central agency at the behest Sangh Parivar outfits. Our struggle will continue to uphold human and minority rights. The BJP and Parivar outfits are using central agencies to stifle dissent,” said PFI general secretary Anis Ahmed. “The PFI has been co-operating well with all ED investigations, but nothing has been found so far. But it is still harassing our members with arbitrary raids. We condemn this,” said PFI chairman O M A Salam. The PFI said raids were conducted at four locations, Kannur, Muvattupuzha, Malappuram and Idukki, officials in the know of the development said. At some locations, angry workers raised slogans against the ED officials but dispersed after local police intervened. The central probe agency has been investigating the PFI’s alleged “financial links” on charges of fuelling the anti-Citizenship (Amendment) Act protests in the country, the Delhi riots that took place in February last year and a few other instancesThe controversial outfit was in the news two weeks back in connection with the murder of Rashtriya Swayamsevak Sangh leader A Sanjith in Palakkad. Four workers of the Social Democratic Party of India, political wing of PFI, were arrested. He was waylaid and stabbed to death before his wife. Five are absconding. The PFI was launched in Kerala in 2006 after merging three Muslim outfits, the National Development Front of Kerala, Karnataka Forum for Dignity and Manitha Neethi Pasari of Tamil Nadu, floated after the Babri Masjid demolition in 1992, and now claims to have units in 22 states. The party’s early leaders were ex-cadres of the banned Students Islamic Movement of India (SIMI).||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/ed-raids-kerala-pfi-offices-leaders-houses-over-money-laundering-charges-101638991223832.html
09-12-2021||India||Kerala gymnast breaks barriers, sets sight on 2024 Olympics||Six years ago, when Mehrain S Saj visited a private gymnasium here with her younger brother, she instantly fell in love with the sport. In November, the 15-year-old turned her dreams into reality when she became the overall champion with two golds and a bronze at the 56th National Artistic Gymnastic Championship in Jammu. She is Kerala’s first gymnast to achieve this feat.Trained by D Jayakumar, a former national champion and Railways coach, Mehrain has now set her sights on the 2024 Paris Olympics and aims to win the country’s first medal in the sport. She estimates that she will be training for 9,000 hours in the run-up to the Games. “Gymnastics was never in my mind. When I went with my father to enrol my brother I saw boys and girls rolling like rubber dolls. I fell in love with the sport instantly. Once my parents agreed, I started training and took more interest in the artistic version,” says Mehrain, who idolises Russian legend Aliya Mustafina and American gymnast Shawn Johnson. “The national event was challenging as many seasoned players were there. My coach’s words came to my mind, ‘give your best, unmindful of challenges’. The big surprise was I won gold in the vault table,” she adds. A Class 10 student at Cotton Hills Girls High School in the state capital, Mehrain trains for five hours six days a week and follows a strict diet.“Her attitude towards the sport is good, and she is hard-working, and grasps techniques and nuances quickly. Usually in gymnastics people with short stature will do well, and her body is tuned for this. If she gets proper exposure and training she can become a world-class gymnast,” says Jayakumar. “I expected a single gold, but when she got the overall championship, I was thrilled. She is the best gymnast in the country now,” he adds. Mehrain’s father Sajjudin, a revenue inspector with the state government, said that at first, many eyebrows were raised in the community when she took to gymnastics. “I told them sport is a sport, and you can’t mix it with belief. Gymnastics has become a passion for my daughter, and we encourage her.” “A promising gymnast, she came up through hard work and determination. The government will do everything possible to help her scale new highs,” said state sportsminister V Abdul Rehman. Wedded to sport, Mehrain’s coach Jayakumar sold his property to start a gymnastic school, DJ Sports Club in Vayalikada in the state capital. He chargesonly those who can afford it. Others get free lessons. Now, 50 students train at his academy, which has produced 10 national level sportspeople. Equipped with basic training equipment, he has been trying to get support from the government and private sponsors for help, but to no avail. 
09-12-2021||India||Over 9,000 social media accounts blocked in 2020, Parliament told||As many as 9,849 accounts across social media platforms were blocked in 2020, almost a three-fold increase than those blocked in 2019, the Centre told Parliament on Wednesday.The information was shared by the ministry of electronics and information technology in Lok Sabha after Congress MP, Mohammad Faizal P.P sought to know year-wise details of the number of blocked accounts on social media platforms under Section 69A of the Information Technology (IT) Act since 2014.“...Government has directed for blocking of 471, 500, 633, 1,385, 2,799, 3,635 and 9,849 number of Accounts/URLs during the years 2014, 2015, 2016, 2017, 2018, 2019 and 2020, respectively,” the minisry said. Section 69A of the IT Act allows the Centre to block public access to an intermediary “in the interest of sovereignty and integrity of India, defence of India, security of the State, friendly relations with foreign States or public order or for preventing incitement to the commission of any cognisable offence relating to above”. “Over 9,000 accounts were blocked in a year when things were particularly less active in terms of public demonstrations, which are legitimate and allowed in our democracy,” Raman Jit Singh Chima, senior international counsel and the Asia Pacific Policy director at Access Now, a think-tank, said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/over-9-000-social-media-accounts-blocked-in-2020-parliament-told-101638991045010.html
09-12-2021||India||Housing scheme to benefit 4mn: Andhra CM Jagan||Andhra Pradesh chief minister YS Jagan Mohan Reddy on Wednesday said the state’s Jaganna Sampoorna Gruha Hakku scheme, which will come into effect from December 21, would benefit more than four million people, who mortgaged their houses with the state housing board for home loans.Under the scheme, those who had obtained loans from the state housing board, and those who constructed houses in the plots allotted by the previous governments between 1983 and August 15, 2011, can get their houses regularised by paying a prescribed fee under one-time-settlement (OTS) plan.At a review meeting on Wednesday, the chief minister said, “The total outstanding principal and interest of these loans amount to around ₹14,400 crores. Under the OTS, the state government will waive around ₹10,000 crores. The beneficiaries can have full rights on their house by paying a stipulated nominal amount – ₹10,000 in villages, ₹15,000 in municipalities, and ₹20,000 in municipal corporations. The government will waive the entire loan dues and register the houses in their names.”State officials told the chief minister that orders have been issued for waiving off the stamp duty, transfer duty, and user charges for the beneficiaries under the OTS scheme. “The registration process is done at the village and ward secretariats and the registration document, field sketch, and loan clearance certificates are being issued to the beneficiaries of the OTS scheme,” they said.The opposition Telugu Desam Party (TDP) described the scheme as a big scam being played on the people, who had been allotted houses under the “weaker section housing scheme.”Stating that the OTS scheme exposed ‘bankruptcy’ of the Jagan-led government, TDP president and former chief minister N Chandrababu Naidu said instead of fulfilling the pre-poll promise of providing free registrations for the weaker sections, the chief minister was using coercive methods to collect money from the poor in the form of OTS. “The district collectors and Mandal level officials are fixing targets for the village and ward secretariats,” he said.He asked the beneficiaries not to pay the OTS amount for regularisation and assured them that if the TDP returned to power in the next assembly elections in 2024, he would regularise the houses free of cost.Naidu said the property registrations would be legal and valid in a court of law only when they would be registered in the registrars’ offices. The OTS registrations for millions of poor beneficiaries at the level of ‘grama sachivalayas’ would be illegal, he said.However, Jagan said at Wednesday’s meeting that the OTS scheme was completely voluntary, and only those who want to get their registered documents back could opt for the scheme.State municipal administration and urban development minister Botsa Satyanarayana alleged that Naidu had become a big hurdle for any welfare scheme introduced by the Jagan government. “He is anti-poor. He has the habit of stalling every scheme of the government by moving the courts,” the minister alleged.
09-12-2021||India||57 dogs’ death in IIT-M due to lack of hygiene: Tamil Nadu tells Madras high court||The Tamil Nadu government has informed the Madras high court that 57 dogs have died on the IIT-Madras campus since last September and the deaths could have been avoided if proper sanitation and hygiene was maintained. Making a submission to the high court on Tuesday during an on-going case, the state described the situation as alarming. A government team inspected the premises after the People for Cattle in India moved the court alleging ill-treatment of dogs on the campus.Taking note of the submissions, the first bench of acting chief justice MN Bhandari and justice PD Audikesavalu said the issue has to be resolved and posted the matter to be heard on December 9. IIT-M has been keeping stray dogs in shelters on campus. A team comprising officials from the Tamil Nadu animal husbandry department, the Tamil Nadu Veterinary and Animal Sciences University (TANUVAS) and the Greater Chennai Corporation and the Animal Welfare Board of India (AWBI) inspected the shelters on November 29 and 30. The committee studied the management and health of the 62 dogs in these shelters present during their inspection. The state government’s report says that IIT-M has refused to give details of 34 individuals who have adopted dogs from the shelter. They pursued death records that showed 57 dogs had died from the day of the inception of the shelters -- September 2020 until the past 13 months. “The committee feels that (the) NGO (assigned as caretakers for the dogs) had failed to take care of the welfare of dogs,” the state’s report read.The committee says that from the treatment register they found “major clinical conditions” such as wounds, respiratory diseases and helminthiasis. “These conditions directly point to the poor sanitation and hygiene within the shelters,” the report said. They added that cracks on the shelter’s flood also shows poor management. “A few dogs have overgrown nails and some dogs had lacerations on the body which shows poor management of dogs,” the report added. The state recommended that dogs be released from the shelters and enlarged with the IIT-M campus.IIT-M did not comment on the issue despite repeated attempts.
09-12-2021||India||TRS plans yatra against Centre over paddy issue||A day after announcing a boycott of the rest of the winter session of Parliament over the alleged indifferent attitude of the Centre towards paddy procurement, Telangana Rashtra Samithi (TRS) MPs are set to meet party president and state chief minister K Chandrasekhar Rao on Thursday to brief him about developments in New Delhi and to discuss the strategy going forward, a senior leader said on Wednesday. “There is a proposal that the TRS MPs would take out a bus yatra across the length and breadth of the state to explain how the Centre betrayed the farming community of Telangana by refusing to purchase the paddy produced in the state. The strategy may be worked out at Thursday’s meeting,” the party leader said on condition of anonymity. TRS Parliamentary Party leader Kesava Rao said on Tuesday that the TRS will now adopt an aggressive approach towards the Narendra Modi government and oppose its every decision. “Aaj se hamara nara, Modi ko hatana” (From today, our slogan is to pull down Modi) . “We shall oppose the BJP in the forthcoming Presidential and Vice-Presidential elections, though we extended support in the past,” he added. Meanwhile, the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) is preparing to launch a series of agitations against the TRS government in the coming days. BJP state president Bandi Sanjay announced that the “million march” of the unemployed and second phase of his foot march , “Praja Sangrama Yatra” will be launched soon after the model code of conduct for the MLC elections comes to an end. The polling for the MLC elections is scheduled to be held on December 10 and the results will be declared on December 14. Four BJP MPs and three MLAs from Telangana are expected to meet with Union home minister Amit Shah on Thursday, a party leader said on condition of anonymity.The BJP is focussing on attracting hardcore Telangana activists who played a major role in the Telangana movement but have been neglected by the TRS in the last seven years. The TRS has traditionally supported the BJP in Parliament, but in recent months, as the latter has grown its presence in Telangana, the former has changed its tune.In December 2018 assembly elections, the BJP had won just one seat in the 119-member assembly and lost deposits in 106 seats. In the subsequent local body elections, too, the BJP fared very poorly -- it could not win even a single block or zilla parishad. However, in the 2019 general elections, the BJP bounced back by winning four Lok Sabha seats out of 17. In the Greater Hyderabad Municipal Corporation elections held in December 2020, the BJP won 48 out of 150 divisions, as against 56 of the TRS. On Tuesday, a popular Telangana activist Teenmaar Mallanna and former employees’ union leader Ch Vittal joined the BJP in New Delhi in the presence of the party’s Telangana in-charge Tarun Chugh. “BJP is the right platform for all those who fought for a separate Telangana, as there is no place for genuine Telangana lovers in the TRS,” Sanjay said. The state BJP president said his party would go all out to end what he termed KCR’s dictatorial, dynastic and corrupt rule. 
09-12-2021||India||Stalin writes to Modi on proposed changes in Electricity Act, 2003||The Tamil Nadu government on Wednesday voiced concern against the proposed amendments to the Electricity Act, 2003 and sought Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s intervention to withdraw an amendment bill in this connection.Chief Minister M K Stalin said the proposed amendments will have “far-reaching” implications for state DISCOMs and argued certain provisions will allow “unbridled access” to the private players in select areas.“I learn that this amendment Bill proposes to delicense the distribution sector of electricity, by introducing a concept of Distribution Company and deemed registration of any such distribution company after 60 days of application. This step will give unbridled access to private players to supply power to select consumers and enable them to use the already laid out distribution network of the Public Sector Power Companies,” he told Modi in a letter. While the State PSUs carry the burden of investment in such networks, these private companies were being allowed to use the same without any investment or responsibility to maintain it, he added.Further, such new private distribution companies would be able to selectively access all the high value customers in commercially viable areas and “this would amount to granting them a right to cherry pick profitable ventures without any social obligations,” while State public sector utilities were left with the obligation of power supply to subsidised categories of consumers and servicing the economically backward/ rural areas, he added.Flagging other proposed amendments to certain sections of the Act, by giving powers to the National Load Despatch Centre (NLDC) such as integrated operation of the power system and optimum scheduling of electricity across different States, he said these would amount to indirectly controlling many significant functionalities of the SLDCs/Discoms/State Governments.The penalty leviable under Sec.142 for contravening provisions of the Act/directions or order of the Commission is also high, the chief minister said.“In view of the above, I request your personal intervention to withdraw the Electricity (Amendment) Bill, 2021 and allow the State owned distribution licensees to continue to supply quality power at affordable rates to the people,” he urged Modi.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/stalin-writes-to-modi-on-proposed-changes-in-electricity-act-2003-101638990923242.html
09-12-2021||India||Kerala CM requests PM to sanction Silver Line project||The Silver Line semi-high speed rail from Thiruvananthapuram to Kasaragod will not only benefit the state of Kerala, but also the nation, Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan has said in his letter sent to Prime Minister Narendra Modi requesting him to sanction the project.In his letter dated December 6, 2021, the CM has said that the Kerala government has already agreed to meet the entire land acquisition cost of ₹13,700 crore.The state government has also agreed in-principle to meet the liability arising from any default on external debt obligation undertaken by the Kerala Rail Development Corporation Ltd (K-Rail) for the project, Vijayan has said.His letter states that the project was discussed in July with Union Railway Minister Ashwini Vaishnaw who had expressed concern in sanctioning the same due to the present financial position of the Indian Railways.In this background, Vijayan has said that without the land acquisition cost, the project’s equity internal rate of return was 13.55 per cent and hence, it was viable as per the agreement between the Ministry of Railways and Government of Kerala.“I request your kind personal intervention to kindly accord the sanction for this key project, which will be a milestone in the progress of Kerala,” he said in the letter.“The project will not only benefit the state of Kerala, but also the nation, contributing both to the economy and the environment,” it has said.The letter has been sent in the wake of strong criticism by the Congress-led opposition to the ambitious project of the Left government.Besides that, a plea has been moved in the Kerala High Court alleging that the state was carrying out land acquisition proceedings for the Silver Line project without sanction of the Centre or other appropriate authorities.The high court has issued notice to the state government and K-Rail, seeking their stand on the petition, which seeks contempt action against them for violating the assurance given to the court in January that they will proceed with the project only after getting the concurrence from the Centre, Railway Board and other statutory authorities.The Silver Line project, which is expected to reduce travel time from Thiruvananthapuram to Kasaragod to around four hours, is being opposed by the Congress-led UDF opposition, which has been alleging that it was “unscientific and impractical” and will put a huge financial burden on the state.The 532-kilometre stretch from Thiruvananthapuram to Kasaragod would be developed by K-Rail -- a joint venture of the Kerala government and the Railway Ministry for developing railway infrastructure in the southern state.Starting from the state capital, Silver Line trains will have stoppages at Kollam, Chengannur, Kottayam, Ernakulam, Thrissur, Tirur, Kozhikode and Kannur before reaching Kasaragod.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/kerala-cm-requests-pm-to-sanction-silver-line-project-101638990805978.html
09-12-2021||India||Must expand fleet to counter China, Pakistan: IAF chief||China poses a significant challenge to the realisation of India’s strategic goals, while Pakistan has upgraded its combat aircraft fleet and forward airbases, the Indian Air Force (IAF) chief said on Wednesday, outlining key threats facing the country.To counter these challenges, the IAF needs to rapidly modernise, expand its fleet and improve indigenous manufacturing capability, Air Chief Marshal VR Chaudhari said while addressing an event organised by the Centre for Air Power Studies.“In my assessment, China possesses a more significant and long-term challenge to the realisation of India’s strategic goals,” he said.China continues to display its economic and military might and its assertiveness is bound to grow, he said, adding this will increase “contestation and competition” in the economic domain. China will also try to tie India down by keeping the country engaged on the unsettled border, he said.Beijing’s aggressive intent is most visible in the rapid enhancement of the People’s Liberation Army Air Force’s operational infrastructure, such as additional airfields in the Tibet Autonomous Region. China has also deployed air defence units, advanced aircraft and drones at these facilities, he said.Force multipliers such as rocket and strategic forces are “redefining the contours of future warfare”, Chaudhari noted.At the same time, India continues to be in a “no war no peace” situation on the border with Pakistan, which is unlikely to ditch its Kashmir-oriented strategy for the foreseeable future, the IAF chief said.The Pakistan Air Force (PAF) is equipping itself with advanced aircraft and upgrading air defence capabilities. It has also built up 24 main and forward operating bases and six satellite bases, and this provides it with greater flexibility to “influence battles across a large spectrum and larger volume of areas”, he said.The Pakistani military has formulated a new concept of war fighting called “triple R” or rearticulate, reorganise and relocate. “Strategically, they are making a transition from fighting a predominantly defensive war to adapting a more aggressive approach for an offensive defence under the nuclear umbrella,” Chaudhari said.For the IAF, all of this translates into a need for a higher counter-air effort to ensure minimum interference from the Pakistani side and to gain requisite control of the airspace, he contended.The IAF needs to rapidly modernise, expand its fleet of combat aircraft and improve indigenous manufacturing capability, Chaudhari said. While budget will remain a constraint, the prioritisation of procurements for key combat elements becomes very critical. Training and equipment is needed to fight and win tomorrow’s war and India must not lose focus in attempt to distribute finances for the defence sector evenly, he said.“There is a need to brainstorm and find solutions to further our national interests in this constantly evolving regional and global security environment,” Chaudhari said.“In an increasingly volatile, uncertain, complex and ambiguous geo-political environment, there is a strong linkage between security and development and this is where the armed forces come in,” he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/must-expand-fleet-to-counter-china-pakistan-iaf-chief-101638990804607.html
09-12-2021||India||Karnataka: Applications for government colleges log rise||The Karnataka higher education department has decided to increase the number of admissions in government colleges after getting more than 165,000 applications for 430 colleges in the state this year, officials said on Wednesday. The government has also ordered the appointment of 14,000 guest lecturers to meet the shortage of teaching staff, the officials added.The officials said that the government-run colleges have a vacancy for around 200,000 students per year, out of which around 80,000 seats are filled every year on an average. “This year we have more than 1.65 lakh students joining government colleges, which is a big jump, of more than 50,000 students, compared to last year. We expect these numbers to increase as the results of diploma examinations are still awaited,” said the official.While the department is yet to provide exact statistics on the admissions this year, an education department official said the demand has been high for commerce subjects, with more than 60% applications. The official said that the higher number of graduates this year is one of the reasons for the higher numbers at the government colleges.Due to the pandemic, the Karnataka government had decided to pass all students registered for the Pre-University Degree (10+2). A decision was made to allocate marks based on the performance in standards 10 and 11. The State government said that it would promote regular and freshers of 2nd year PU courses by giving 45% weightage for their SSLC marks, 45% for IPU marks and 10% for the internal assessment marks of II PU.This year, about 540,992 students had registered for the Karnataka II PUC 2021 exams and all of them have been promoted to the next stage. In total, 251,686 students registered in the commerce stream, 219,777 in the science stream, and 69,529 in the arts stream, according to government data.As many as 195,650 students also achieved distinction. The results this year witnessed an increase of 30% in the first-class students, 50% increase in second class and 20% increase in third class results as compared to last year. In addition to this, the government also decided to give grace marks to repeaters and pass them.“This year, every student who appeared for the PU examination passed. The number is close to 6 lakhs this year. In a normal situation, at least 2 lakh students fail in these examinations, but because there was a grace mark system and no examination, we have more students passing PUC and coming for degree examinations,” said the official.Amid new Covid-19 clusters in the state, chief minister Basavaraj Bommai Monday said the government is closely monitoring the situation and will decide on further containment measures, including closing down schools, colleges and hostels, after consulting experts. “All our concerns will be placed before the Covid-19 technical advisory committee, and we’ll make a decision based on their suggestions,” Bommai said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/karnatakaapplications-for-government-colleges-log-rise-101638990744438.html
09-12-2021||India||Man kills family over suspicion of conversion, dies by suicide in Mangaluru||Four members of a family in Karnataka’s Mangaluru city were found dead on Wednesday with the police saying that a 30-year-old man may have killed his wife and two children over suspicion of religious conversion, before dying by suicide himself. Police said the bodies of the 30-year-old, his 26-year-old wife, their eight-year-old daughter and four-year-old son, were found in their house. Officials said that the man sent a voice note to the assistant sub-inspector of Mangaluru South police station around 10.45am, saying he died by suicide. “In the voice note, the man said a woman was trying to get this wife to convert her religion. He told the officer that the woman was responsible for the suicide. He also sent a photo of death note with the same information,” said an officer in the know of the development. Soon after, a team was dispatched to the man’s house and the team discovered the bodies.Mangaluru Police commissioner N Shashi Kumar said that Mangaluru South Police had suo motu registered a case under section 306 of the Indian Penal Code (abetment to suicide) against the woman mentioned in the voice note and she was taken into custody. Police said the couple had marital troubles and the man, who had a drinking problem, had been accused of domestic violence by the wife over a period of time. In October this year, she left home, prompting her husband to file a missing persons complaint. During the investigation, the woman said she was living with a female acquaintance -- the same person the husband said was trying to convert his wife, said a senior Mangaluru police officer. In October, the wife appeared in a police station and said she was going back to her husband. “It is unclear what happened after that, but it seems that the man suspects that his wife will change her religion and the problems between the couple surfaced again,” said a Mangaluru police official, requesting anonymity. (If you need support or know someone who does, please reach out to your nearest mental health specialist.) Helplines: Aasra: 022 2754 6669; Sneha India Foundation: +914424640050 and Sanjivini: 011-24311918||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/30yearold-kills-family-over-suspicion-of-conversion-dies-by-suicide-in-mangaluru-101638990743072.html
09-12-2021||India||Two-year-old found murdered in Karnataka’s Kalaburagi||Karnataka police on Wednesday found the body of a two-year-old child, who went missing on December 6, bundled in a gunny bag and buried in a heap of sand in the Firdouz Colony of Kalaburagi, about 572 kms from Bengaluru.The young boy went missing while out of his home on Monday and could not be traced, the police said. The body was dumped under a heap of sand in a construction site which was discovered by workers, people aware of the development said.Though a preliminary investigation has revealed that the boy had sustained injuries to the head, police officials have said that they are probing all angles to the murder, including the possibility of Black magic.“All we can say now is that he has sustained injuries to the head and that it is not a natural death,” a police official from the district said. He added that the possibility of it being a case of black magic would be ascertained after any arrests are made in the case. A case has been booked under Section 174 (C).Though Karnataka is considered one of the most industrious states in the country, there have been instances of practising black magic by fraudsters who promise fortunes and convince those in distress to even make human sacrifices.In early November, nearly 12 people were arrested in connection with black magic cases and even rescued a four-year-old girl allegedly going to be sacrificed, IANS reported.A two-year-old girl was found with burnt marks in the border district of Belagavi in September who was suspected to be subjected to black magic.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/twoyearold-found-murdered-in-karnataka-s-kalaburagi-101638990685496.html
09-12-2021||India||‘Martyr’: No such nomenclature, govt tells Parliament||There is no official nomenclature such as “martyr” for the armed forces’ personnel who are killed in line of duty, the ministry of home affairs informed Parliament on Wednesday. To a question on whether the government has any plan regarding the status of martyrs and the amenities provided to their dependents, MoS home Nityanand Rai in a written reply said “There is no such official nomenclature. However, Ministry of Home Affairs has issued instructions to issue ‘Operational Casualty Certificate’ to the Next of Kins (NoKs) of Central Armed Police Forces (CAPFs) and Assam Rifles (AR) personnel who are killed action.” MoS Rai also listed the benefits provided to the Next of Kins of CAPFs and AR personnel, which include central ex-gratia compensation from ₹25 lakhs to ₹45 lakhs, liberalized family pension under Central Civil Services Rules (1939), financial assistance from Risk/Welfare/Benevolent fund of the force and payment of assistance by some states/union territories as per their rules. Besides, the Centre also provided concession in air and rail travel, a quota for admission to MBBS and BDS courses, scholarship under Prime Minister Scholarship Scheme, the minister said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/martyr-no-such-nomenclature-govt-tells-parliament-101638990684472.html
09-12-2021||India||Karnataka: Two hospitals identified for isolating int’l passengers who test Covid positive||The Karnataka government has identified two public hospitals for isolation and treatment of international passengers who arrive in the state and test positive for Covid-19, according to a health department statement on Wednesday.Bengaluru and Mangaluru are the two international airports where all passengers arrive from abroad.“Those who test Positive for Covid 19 shall be shifted to the identified Health Care Facility for further treatment and Management as per the protocol issued by MoH & FW-Govt of India. Hence, the concerned authorities at Airport shall ensure that the required facilities are readily available for shifting such positive cases immediately with no undue delay,” the department of health and family welfare said in a statement on Wednesday.The two hospitals in these cities are Bowring & Lady Curzon Hospital in Bengaluru and Wenlock in Mangaluru.The directive comes at a time when the first two cases of the Omicron variant of the novel coronavirus was detected in India.The detection has raised apprehensions of another possible wave of infections in the southern state.Karnataka has also seen several educational institutions, which have been declared as containment zones, as several students have tested positive for the virus in recent days.The mishandling of positive cases who arrived at these two airports in the past 18 months has led to the cropping up of new containment zones.The government of Karnataka said that a separate block with a sufficient number of beds and other facilities shall be set aside for isolation, treatment and management of Covid-19 positive cases detected among international arrivals.“As and when there is information that the Covid 19 positive sample of International Passenger shall be shifted to separate isolated treatment block or ward within the same facilities with due precautions in place,” the order states.,The order adds that these cases should remain isolated from other non-Omicron covid-19 patients under treatment in the same Health Care Facility.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/karnatakatwo-hospitals-identified-for-isolating-int-l-passengers-who-test-covid-positive-101638990683135.html
09-12-2021||India||France keen to set up institute in Karnataka, says minister Narayan||Karnataka minister for higher education Dr CN Ashwath Narayan on Wednesday that the government of France is keen to set up an “Indo-French Campus Institute” in Karnataka, which would train students with global-level skills.The statements came after Narayan met Thierry Berthelot, the newly appointed Consul General of France for Bengaluru.“France is interested to provide courses under Health Category which include Biotech to Artificial Intelligence, Drugs & Health Products, Pharmaceutical Management, Advanced Pharmaceutical Engineering. Under the Industry 4.0 category, it wishes to commence courses of Cyber Security, Data Analytics, Machine Learning, etc, and under Ecology category it wants to commence courses of Biodiversity, Climate Change, Greener Economy, he said. Those who study the above courses will be awarded Joint Degrees (Indo-French Degrees),” according to a statement from Narayan’s office, attributing it to the minister.The courses of this institute, the minister said, will be aligned with the corporate needs and train students with global-level skills.Karnataka has seen several partnerships recently, especially in research and development. The Basavaraj Bommai-led state government has also proposed a focused policy on Research & Development in the state.The state higher education council also said that it has decided to enter into a partnership with NSE academy to provide financial awareness for students.“The state government is having an open mind about this program. This will enable them to provide financial awareness and scientific knowledge about entrepreneurship to students. This will impart knowledge to students on economic policies, fin-tech, capital market, central banks among other subjects. Further, this will include the exchange of knowledge between students and faculties of colleges across the state,” Narayan said.NSE Academy has already introduced this program in seven states of the country, and about 70 lakh students have been trained, the minister added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/france-keen-to-set-up-institute-in-karnataka-says-minister-narayan-101638990625921.html
09-12-2021||India||Karnataka CM Bommai hints at fresh Covid-19 curbs across state||Karnataka chief minister Basavaraj Bommai on Wednesday hinted at fresh Covid-19 guidelines across the state in light of the rise in Covid clusters and scare over the Omicron variant. Speaking to reporters after a meeting with officers on Covid management, Bommai said that he obtained details on the Covid situation in various districts, Covid clusters, primary and secondary contacts of Omicron patients, whether standard protocol are being followed for management and treatment of Omicron cases in other countries. “Today (Wednesday), I will collect details about Covid-19 in November from our officials, which will be presented before the cabinet tomorrow (Thursday). Whatever is happening regarding the Omicron variant and the developments taking place in Covid-19 clusters will be placed before the cabinet. Accordingly, a decision will be taken on issuing a fresh set of guidelines,” he said. The CM also said that the fresh Covid guidelines, if come into effect, will be for the entire state, not for ‘selected’ districts. “Controlling Covid cases in December and January and the need for fresh guidelines will be discussed elaborately in the cabinet meeting,” Bommai said today. He added that he has also obtained details on financial needs to tackle Covid till March 2022. “The expenditure incurred by BBMP, Health, Revenue departments for oxygen units, labs and other essentials for Covid management during the second wave and clearance of pending payments were also discussed at the meeting,” he said. On Wednesday, Karnataka reported 399 new cases of coronavirus and six deaths. The state’s Covid-19 caseload has climbed to 2,999,098 and the death toll to 38,249. Bengaluru Urban has continued to head the list of cases with 244 new cases as the city saw 100 discharges and three deaths. The total number of active cases in the state is now 7,255. This week, 101 students tested positive for Covid-19 in the Chikkamagaluru district, including 90 students and 11 staff. Before that, 29 students were found Covid positive at a private nursing school in Shivamogga. Bommai had earlier this week said that places with three or more cases of Covid-19 would be declared as a ‘cluster’. Meanwhile, the chief minister urged parents not to panic though cases were emerging in the schools and hostels. Children have to be cautious, and the schools and colleges have to strictly abide by the Covid-19 norms, he said. The CM appealed to parents and teachers to take a double dose of the Covid-19 vaccine if they had not done it yet. After a rise in Covid testing at the airport, the state government capped the prices for various testing methods. While the conventional RT-PCR test, which takes the most time (nearly five hours to obtain results), is priced at ₹500, the Cepheid Gene Expert test (results expected in 25 minutes) costs ₹2,750 per sample. The other testing methods available for international arrivals are the Abbott ID test ( ₹3,000), Thermo-Fisher Accula test ( ₹1,500), and Tata MD3 Gene fast/Tata MDXF test ( ₹1,200).||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/karnataka-cm-bommai-hints-at-fresh-covid-19-curbs-across-state-101638990623137.html
09-12-2021||India||Odisha police plea against re-investigating 2 local BJP leaders’ murder rejected||BHUBANESWAR: An Odisha court on Wednesday rejected the state police’s plea challenging a magisterial court’s decision to order a re-investigation into the murder of two local Bharatiya Janata Party leaders in a Cuttack village and require the police to produce the call data records, or CDR, of three persons considered to be close to law minister Pratap Jena.In August, the court of judicial magistrate first class in Salipur area of Cuttack district ordered a fresh probe into the case. Three months later, in November, the court also asked the police to submit the call detail records of Mahanga panchayat samiti chairman Sarat Nayak, Bapi Biswal, a representative of law minister Pratap Jena and Prafulla Biswal, the main accused who died in a road accident in February, a month after the two murders.Additional district cum sessions judge in Salipur, Dhanurdhar Senapati, on Wednesday rejected the revision petition filed by police against the magistrate’s order.Kulamani Baral, 75, in charge of Salipur mandal of BJP and a former chairman of Mahanga panchayat samiti and his 80-year-old associate Dibyasingh Baral were killed on January 2 near Cuttack’s Jankoti village on their way home on a motorcycle.While Kulamani died on the spot, Dibyasingh Baral died the following morning at Cuttack’s SCB Medical College and Hospital.Kulamani Baral’s family alleged that the murder was linked to his campaign against local leaders of the ruling Biju Janata Dal (BJD) leaders over alleged irregularities related to PMAY houses meant for poor people.The first information report (FIR) registered by the police on the statement of Kulamani Baral’s son blamed law minister Pratap Jena and 12 others for the murder. Investigators, however, could not find any evidence to link the minister and did not name him in the charge sheet.Baral’s son asked judicial magistrate to get the murders reinvestigated, alleging that the police shielded him during their probe and kept his name out.As Mahanga police station inspector Nihar Mohanty did not submit the CDR or the reinvestigation report, the judicial magistrate court last week issued a show-cause notice to him asking him to explain as to why coercive and punitive action will not be taken against him for not appearing before the court.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/odisha-police-plea-against-re-investigating-2-local-bjp-leaders-murder-rejected-101638990443127.html
09-12-2021||India||Nagaland killings: Cong team en route to Mon district stopped at Jorhat airport||A delegation of Congress leaders, including party general secretary Jitendra Singh Alwar, was stopped at Jorhat airport in Assam by the district administration when they were on their way to meet the families of civilians who were killed in a botched Army operation in Nagaland last week.The delegation had arrived to visit Mon district, where the killings took place, when they were barred from proceeding under section 144(1) of CrPC. “...there are sufficient grounds to prohibit their further movement considering the present sensitive situation at Assam-Nagaland border areas and apprehension of breach of peace and tranquility in the border areas of Jorhat district,” a statement issued by Jorhat district magistrate Ashok Kumar Barman said. “.....considering their safety with regards to prevailing situation in bordering district of Nagaland, I, Shri Ashok Kumar Barman, IAS, district magistrate, Jorhat in exercise of power conferred upon me under do hereby prohibit the visit of the aforesaid delegation of Hon’ble MPs & others beyond Jorhat Airport unless express permission to given by the Govt. of Nagaland for entering the State,” the statement added. Alwar, who is in-charge of Assam, alleged that he and his colleagues were released only after five hours and allowed to return only in government vehicles. “Detained at Jorhat along with AICC delegation, Assam Police has orders to hold us in Jorhat , Assam and prevent us from travelling to Mon district, Nagaland. Why are we not being allowed to meet the families of the victims @AmitShah @himantabiswa?” Alwar posted on Twitter.Lok Sabha MP Gaurav Gogoi and Congress general secretary Ajoy Kumar were also among those detained at the airport.Jorhat superintendent of police Ankur Jain told HT: “The delegation was trying to go to the Nagaland border area which is sensitive. Problems could arise if they went there. We stopped them for a while and released them later.”Fourteen civilians were shot dead by security personnel during a botched ambush and a subsequent confrontation with local villagers on Saturday and Sunday. Union home minister Amit Shah told Parliament on Monday that the firing was a consequence of “mistaken identity” and that a special investigation team has been directed to complete the probe within a month.(With inputs from Biswa Kalyan Purukayastha)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/nagaland-killings-congress-delegates-en-route-to-mon-district-stopped-at-jorhat-airport-101638990324762.html
09-12-2021||India||Counterterror specialist among victims of Coonoor crash||Brigadier LS Lidder, the defence assistant to the chief of defence staff General Bipin Rawat and among the 13 people killed in the Coonoor chopper crash, was a competent, professional and affable officer who enjoyed Rawat’s confidence. He was commissioned into the Jammu and Kashmir Rifles. Lidder had served as India’s defence attache to Kazakhstan and was a counterterrorism specialist.His daughter Aashna Lidder’s book ‘In Search of a Title: Musings of a Teenager’ was released on November 27. He was very proud of his daughter’s achievement and fondly talked about her book. The CDS’s wife Madhulika Raje Singh Rawat had attended the book launch.“We trained together at #NDA. We fought terrorists together in #Kashmir. In the loss of Brig LS Lidder, SM, VSM today, India has lost one of its brightest & bravest officers & I have lost a friend. A decorated soldier, caring husband & doting father, you will be missed, Tony,” MP Rajyavardhan Singh Rathore said in a tweet.Rawat’s staff officer, Lieutenant Colonel Harjinder Singh, who was also killed in the crash, was known to be a thorough professional. “Col Harjinder Singh was commissioned under my command. He was my Adjutant and a fabulous officer. I will miss you, my ever-smiling Harry. May you Rest in Peace,” Lieutenant General Shokin Chauhan (retd) wrote on Twitter.The chopper was flown by Wing Commander PS Chauhan, the commanding officer of 109 Helicopter Unit at Sulur, and his co-pilot Squadron Leader K Singh. The other two IAF personnel on board were junior warrant officers -- Rana Pratap Das and Pradeep A.The army identified the others killed as Havildar Satpal Rai, Naik Gursewak Singh, Naik Jitender Kumar, Lance Naik Vivek Kumar and Lance Naik BS Teja.The only survivor of the crash, Group Captain Varun Singh, is under treatment at the Military Hospital in Wellington.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/counterterror-specialist-among-victims-of-coonoor-crash-101638990150790.html
09-12-2021||India||After CDS Rawat’s demise, Centre faces critical succession question||The shocking demise of India’s first chief of defence staff (CDS) General Bipin Rawat in a helicopter crash on Wednesday will have direct implications for the country’s top military hierarchy and the government will have to move swiftly to announce a succession plan at a time India is locked in a border standoff with China, top officials said.“The situation is unprecedented as General Rawat was the country’s first CDS. The government will have to select a top officer and appoint him as CDS. The succession line-up in the three services is broadly known but not so in the case of CDS as it’s a new appointment,” said one of the officials cited above.Army chief General Manoj Mukund Naravane has become the most senior military officer in the country after Rawat’s demise. Indian Air Force chief Air Chief Marshal Vivek Ram Chaudhari and navy chief Admiral R Hari Kumar are both around two years junior to him.There is a strong possibility of Naravane being named as the next CDS if the government follows the seniority principle, said a second official.“If Naravane is named the next CDS, the post of army chief will fall vacant. The government will have to appoint a new army chief. Rawat’s death will have a cascading effect on the succession line-up of the armed forces,” he added.Army vice chief Lieutenant General CP Mohanty and Northern Army commander Lieutenant General YK Joshi, who are both course mates, are the most senior officers in the army after General Naravane.According to a key recommendation made by the Shekatkar committee on enhancing the military’s combat potential, the government should choose the CDS from among the three service chiefs. Naravane will be the front-runner for the top job if the government goes by that recommendation made by an 11-member expert panel, headed by Lieutenant General DB Shekatkar (retd) in 2016.“The government will have to appoint the new CDS as soon as possible keeping in mind the security challenges India faces from China and Pakistan,” Shekatkar said.Naravane is due for retirement next April but that may not happen in the changed circumstances. Many in the security establishment believe that the first two or three CDS appointments should be from the army as the security challenges the country faces are along the borders with the two adversaries.However, making top appointments is the government’s prerogative. The possibility of deep selection cannot be ruled out as was done when Rawat was appointed army chief almost five years back, said a third official.The National Democratic Alliance government superseded two top generals — Lieutenant Generals Praveen Bakshi and PM Hariz — to appoint Rawat army chief on December 31, 2016. Rawat’s experience in Jammu & Kashmir and the Northeast tipped the scales in his favour.Rawat was spearheading the military’s theaterisation drive to enhance the effectiveness of the armed forces and reshape the conduct of future operations. Rawat took over as CDS on December 31, 2019, after serving as army chief for a full three-year term. He held the four-star rank for almost five years, making him the longest serving four-star general in India.As CDS, Rawat wore multiple hats -- he was the permanent chairman of the chiefs of staff committee (COSC), headed the department of military affairs (DMA), and was the single-point military adviser to the defence minister.Navy chief Admiral R Hari Kumar last week said the creation of DMA and the post of CDS two years ago was “the single most important” higher defence organisation reform since Independence.The appointment of a CDS was backed by a group of ministers after recommendations made by the K Subrahmanyam-led Kargil Review Committee (KRC) that was constituted in the immediate aftermath of the 1999 Kargil war to examine lapses that allowed Pakistani soldiers to occupy strategic heights, the initial sluggish Indian response, and suggest measures to strengthen national security.
09-12-2021||India||Parliament: Opposition corners govt over commitments at Glasgow climate meet||The climate crisis took centre stage in the Lok Sabha on Wednesday as opposition parties raised questions on how India plans to meet its commitments made at the recent climate conference in Glasgow and why states weren’t consulted before announcing that the country will achieve net-zero emissions before 2070.On November 1, Prime Minister Narendra Modi announced at the Glasgow climate change conference (COP26) that India’s non-fossil energy capacity will reach 500 GW by 2030, meeting 50% of the country’s energy requirements by 2030.He said India will reduce its total projected carbon emissions by one billion tonnes between now and 2030; reduce the carbon intensity of its economy by 45% by 2030, over 2005 levels, and achieve net-zero emissions by 2070. PM Modi had also flagged that the ambitious action will be impossible without adequate climate finance from developed nations.In the Lok Sabha, Dravida Munnetra Kazhagam (DMK) MP Kanimozhi Karunanidhi said the youth were facing uncertainty and anxiety due to the climate crisis and cited analysis that says India needs 5630 GW of total installed solar energy to transition to net zero emissions.“India has only 46.25 GW of grid connected solar power. I want to know how can we achieve so much? What we have done is nothing compared to what we have promised to the world,” she said.Kanimozhi said the PM’s Council on Climate Change last met in 2015 and asked how the PM announced national climate goals without consulting the council. “He also did not consult the states and chief ministers,” she added, asking for details on what has the Centre done under the national action plan on climate change.Kakoli Ghosh Dastidar of the Trinamool Congress, Adhir Ranjan Chowdhury of the Congress and Rahul Ramesh Shewale of the Shiv Sena raised issues like vulnerability of coastal areas, polluted air from north India moving towards the east during stubble fire episodes, and poor national performance on environmental parameters in the environmental performance index 2020.India ranked 168th out of 180 countries in the index released by Yale University last year.A senior official of the Union environment ministry said the climate crisis debate broke new ground. “I do not remember any Lok Sabha debate on climate crisis being held before. This is perhaps the first big one. It’s particular important because this shows that climate is an important issue for people. Environment minister Bhupender Yadav will respond to all these concerns and queries at the end of the debate under rule 193 of Lok Sabha.”Sunita Narain, director general at Centre for Science and Environment, said, "Extreme weather events are showing us how urgent the crisis is, and this is what is also reflected in the debate."||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/parliament-opposition-corners-govt-over-commitments-at-glasgow-climate-meet-101638990025612.html
09-12-2021||India||Coonoor crash turns spotlight on high-profile military air accidents||The horrific Mi-17V5 chopper crash near Coonoor on Wednesday, that resulted in the deaths of chief of defence staff General Bipin Rawat, his wife Madhulika , defence assistant Brigadier LS Lidder, and 10 others has turned the spotlight on previous air accidents involving top military officials.The Coonoor crash came 58 years after top military officials were killed in an Indian Air Force Alouette chopper crash near Poonch on November 22, 1963. The officers killed were Lieutenant General Daulat Singh, Lieutenant General Bikram Singh, Air Vice Marshal EW Pinto, Major General KND Nanavati, Brigadier SR Oberoi and Flight Lieutenant SS SodhiMaking a statement in Parliament on the crash, then defence minister YB Chavan said, “In the death of these officers, our defence forces have lost very distinguished, able and promising leaders. Their great qualities of leadership have contributed greatly in the past, particularly of Lieutenant General Daulat Singh and Lieutenant General Bikram Singh, and particularly Air Vice Marshal EW Pinto did great work in the last air exercises.”“In their death, we feel that we have lost something very valuable,” he said.The CDS chopper crash is also a reminder of the February 1952 Devon crash that almost wiped out the Indian Army’s top brass, including two future chiefs. Lieutenant General SM Shrinagesh and Major General KS Thimayya, both of whom went on to become army chiefs, survived the crash. Miraculously, there were no casualties in the crash.Major General SPP Thorat, later Eastern Army commander, Major General Sardanand Singh, Major General Mohinder Singh Chopra and Brig Ajaib Singh also on board the Devon aircraft. “Each survivor of the Devon crash was presented a salvaged chair from the crash as a souvenir. General Chopra’s chair is still there in the family home in Kasauli,” said defence analyst and Chopra’s great grandnephew Angad Singh.Shrinagesh’s ADC Captain K Sundarji, who later became army chief, gave up his seat at the last moment to accommodate Brigadier Singh.Flight Lieutenant Suhas Biswas, the pilot, was awarded the country’s highest peacetime gallantry award, Ashoka Chakra, for his heroics and outstanding presence of mind that saved the lives of all the people on board. It was the IAF’s first Ashok Chakra. Biswas died in a Dakota crash in the Nilgiri hills a few years later.The generals were later invited to spend the night at the residence of Major Gen BS Chimney, UP Area commander. At dinner, Chimney’s wife asked them how they came out of the burning aircraft. The witty Shrinagesh replied, “In the same order as we went in.”In his personal notes, Shrinagesh wrote, “Just when the brave pilot had regained control of the aircraft, my eyes shot back to the engine. It had by now disappeared, leaving a gap without any trace of flames.”In a letter to Shrinagesh, Prime Minister Jawaharlal Nehru said, “As it’s all over now, one can look upon it with composure. It is perhaps a good thing to face such contingencies provided one survives.”Eight senior military officials were killed in a Mi-8 chopper crash in Bhutan in May 1993, including then Eastern Army commander Lieutenant General Jameel Mahmood.Former Northern Army commander Lieutenant General Ranbir Singh and eight others were injured in a Dhruv advanced light helicopter crash in the Poonch sector in October 2019.
09-12-2021||India||Hindi writer Wajahat to be awarded 31st Vyas Samman for 2019 play||Noted Hindi writer Asgar Wajahat will be awarded the 31st Vyas Samman for his play Mahabali, which was published in 2019, the KK Birla Foundation said in an official statement.The award, instituted in 1991 and given by the KK Birla Foundation, recognises outstanding literary work in Hindi authored by an Indian citizen and published in the previous 10 years. It carries a cash prize of ₹4 lakh. The recipient is chosen by a selection panel, which is headed by famous Hindi litterateur Prof. Ramji Tiwari.Born in Uttar Pradesh’s Fatehpur on July 5, 1946, Wajahat completed his MA in Hindi and PhD from the Aligarh Muslim University (AMU). He then went on to do post doctoral research at Delhi’s Jawaharlal Nehru University (JNU). The literary veteran also served as a professor at the Hindi department of Delhi’s Jamia Millia Islamia University. In a career spanning several decades, Wajahat has penned literary work across genres, ranging from novels and plays to essays and travelogue. He has been a recipient of the Sangeet Natak Akademi Puraskar (2014) and was adjudged the Best Playwright by the Hindi Academy in 2009-10.In his play Mahabali, Wajahat focuses on Mughal emperor Akbar and poet Tulsidas to bring to the fore the different worlds of power politics and art. Through the play, Wajahat attempts to answer who is the real Mahabali (the all-powerful), the poet or the emperor.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/hindi-writer-wajahat-to-be-awarded-31st-vyas-samman-for-2019-play-101638989842996.html
09-12-2021||India||Parliament approves bills on ART, surrogacy||Parliament passed on Wednesday a bill to regulate assisted reproductive technology (ART) services such as in-vitro fertilisation (IVF) centres, sperm or egg banks and curb unethical practices related to issues such as sex selection.The Rajya Sabha passed the Assisted Reproductive Technology (Regulation) Bill 2021 by a voice vote, a week after the Lok Sabha cleared the draft legislation. The Upper House also approved the Surrogacy (Regulation) Bill 2020, which will regulate the booming surrogacy practice in India.Union health minister Mansukh Mandaviya introduced both bills in the Upper House on Tuesday, but discussions were disrupted by Opposition protests over the suspension of 12 lawmakers. The bills were introduced together because they were closely related.The minister said that the ART bill was brought after due consultations and such services needed regulation to protect women and children from exploitation.“Many such ART clinics have been running in the country without regulation. A need was felt for regulation of such clinics as there are implications on the health of those who undertake the procedure,” the minister told the Lower House on December 2. “If there is no regulation, the unethical practices will increase,” he added.The bill was passed by the Lok Sabha on December 1 despite some Opposition members criticising provisions that kept single men and members of the Lesbian, Gay, Bisexual, Transgender (LGBT) communities from accessing these services.The ART Bill proposes the constitution of a national board to set minimum standards of physical infrastructure, laboratory and diagnostic equipment and expert manpower to be employed by clinics and banks.Authorities will set up a national registry and registration authority to maintain a central database and assist the national board. The bill also proposes stringent punishment for those practising sex selection, sale of human embryos or gametes, running agencies, rackets, and organisations violating the law.The surrogacy bill aims to ensure effective regulation of the practice, asking states to form a state surrogacy board for regulatory purposes, within three months after the Centre notifies the law .The bill allows any willing woman to act as a surrogate, and also lets widows and divorcees to opt for surrogacy to have children. To safeguard the rights of a surrogate, the bill proposes an increase in the insurance cover timeline for surrogate mothers to 36 months from 16 months provided in the earlier version.Once the act comes into effect, commercial surrogacy will be banned and illegal in India, including sale and purchase of human embryo and gametes. The bill was controversial and underwent several improvisations because in the first draft, tabled in 2019, the government intended to allow only altruistic surrogacy with the surrogate being a near relative.The bill was earlier passed by the Lok Sabha, but the Rajya Sabha referred it to a select committee in 2019. It will now go back to the Lok Sabha for approval. Mandaviya said that most of the recommendations of the select committee were incorporated in the bill.“We still need to see what are the amendments that have been approved in both the Bills or whether it is the original version that has been passed. There isn’t enough clarity at the moment. But the issue of excessive paperwork remains the same, for which they’ve proposed severe punishment. We don’t know how the clinics will run in the future,” Dr Shivani Sachdev Gour, senior gynaecologist and obstetrician, and IVF expert, said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/parliament-approves-bills-on-art-surrogacy-101638989784437.html
09-12-2021||India||Never heard a blast like that: Eyewitnesses on Coonoor crash||Chennai: Shortly after noon, 55-year-old K Raja was preparing to attend a wedding in Coonoor town when he heard a loud explosion. He ran out of his home in the village of Kattery and saw a helicopter engulfed in flames crashed on the ground.“I’ve never heard a blast like that,” said Raja, who lives among the 100-odd families in the hilly village in Nanjappa Chatram, four kilometres from Coonoor.Raja’s daughter, Sangeeta, 24, was outside their home when she heard a loud sound and saw a helicopter flying very low. She said she saw the helicopter crash into a tree, resulting in an explosion and flames.“It was at this point that my father rushed out of the house, and we saw the chopper fall to the ground, engulfed in flames and parts falling off. It was misty but there was no rain at the time. When the chopper fell, the fire was so intense that it lit up the sky, cutting through the mist,” Sangeeta said.At first, there was a sense of shock among the residents of the village. Then they understood the gravity of the situation and rushed to the spot where the Mi-17V5 helicopter had come down to begin rescue operations.Sangeeta was among the first to reach the burning wreckage and joined others who were attempting to douse the flames with buckets of water. “The crash was so close to our homes and I heard someone calling out for help,” she said.Her added: “Everyone stopped whatever they were doing. They were screaming.” Many people ran to the crash site to help put out the fire. “There were more blasts and the helicopter kept burning. We carried large pots and kept pouring water, but we couldn’t go too close. It was too hot,” said Raja, a sanitation worker with the Coonoor panchayat.At the time, the villagers didn’t know that the helicopter was carrying the Chief of Defence Staff(CDS), General Bipin Rawat,and 13 others, and that it had crashed about 10km from the spot where it was meant to land. Rawat, his wife Madhulika and 11 others died in the crash, and the only survivor -- Group Captain Varun Singh -- was taken to the Military Hospital in Wellington.A labourer, also named Raja, said his friend called him from Kattery and he reached the spot in 10 minutes. “We pulled out and carried the first body,” he said.Rescue operations were hampered as the crash site was 6 km from the closest road. “It was deep in the forest, full of thorny plants and when we ran to the spot, we saw a person who was on fire,” Raja said. “But he was alive, he waved his hand like he was calling for help. So my friends and I used a bedsheet to carry him up the hill to the road.”All emergency services, including the police and fire services, and military personnel reached the spot soon after the crash and the rescue operations lasted more than three hours. “It was the public that first went and began carrying bodies though,” Raja, the labourer, said. Larger fire engines couldn’t access the route to the crash site and even smaller vehicles took time to reach the spot because there was a traffic jam, he said.Officials said the crash occurred around 12.20pm. Rescue teams were seen pulling out people with severe burn injuries from the site. “The rescue operations finished between 3.45pm and 4pm,” said Tamil Nadu forest minister K Ramachandran. Eight ambulances were and six medical teams from Coimbatore’s government and private hospitals were sent to the site, said state health secretary J Radhakrishnan.Local residents are used to seeing army helicopters flying over the area as there is a military helipad and the Defence Services Staff College at Wellington, where Rawat was to address students on Wednesday. “But this is the first time something so terrible happened,” said Raja.The entire settlement was traumatised after witnessing or learning about the horrific crash, he added.Another witness, Krishnaswamy, told reporters that the occupants of the helicopter were badly burnt. “They (rescuers) took them out and then I left because I got scared looking at the people who were burnt,” he said. Another witness said he had seen the helicopter flying at a very low level when it abruptly fell, hitting a tree with a loud noise.(With inputs from C Hamza in Coonoor)
09-12-2021||India||Supreme Court panel on charges against me was cleared by all judges, says Gogoi||“Why Gogoi? Why only Gogoi all the time? Is it because Gogoi comes from the North-East and not from mainstream India?” asked former Chief Justice of India and currently a Rajya Sabha MP, Ranjan Gogoi, as he talked about his memoir – Justice for the Judge.Launched on Wednesday, the former CJI’s book contains 14 chapters setting down various known and unknown details about his childhood, his journey to judgeship, and the spate of controversies that he got embroiled in during his 13-month tenure as the head of judiciary between October 2018 and November 2019.In an interview , justice Gogoi said that the decision to set up in-house committee to enquire into sexual harassment charges against him was approved by all the judges of the Supreme Court, and that the complainant woman employee was reinstated not after his retirement but during his tenure as the CJI.You are the first former CJI who has come out with a memoir. What prompted you to write the autobiography? I am the also the only CJI who needed to place correct facts for people to know. The peaceful life that I had anticipated after my retirement in November 2019 did not materialise. There were half-truths, untruths and incorrect statements floating around. I thought the correct facts need to be placed before the country. But I am not in the people’s court. I am very clear in my mind that whatever I did as a judge, on the judicial side or on the administrative side, they were correct decisions in my wisdom and in my conscience. I don’t need sympathy of anyone. I don’t need recognition. But I need people to know what are the correct facts.There is a perception that you were the judge in your own cause when you constituted a committee that eventually gave a clean chit to you in the sexual harassment case. In the book, you say that the committee was set up after approval of all the judges. In respect of the person against whom the allegations were enquired into by the committee, I could have no role in any step of decision-making. The whole matter was entrusted by me to justice Bobde. So, it really was for justice Bobde and the other judges to decide whether the fact that the committee was constituted by the full court of the Supreme Court should be put out in the public domain. It was their decision not to make this information public. Therefore, it has now come in my book.The book says that the complainant was reinstated during your tenure by justice Bobde on humanitarian grounds. At the time the allegations in April 2019, you called it a serious attack on independence of judiciary. How do you view her reinstatement?The employee wrote to justice Bobde, who was the senior most judge, requesting for her reinstatement on humanitarian ground. Justice Bobde placed that letter before me because only the CJI can pass such administrative orders. I requested justice Bobde to deal with the matters since the CJI could not function in this matter. Justice Bobde, in his discretion, thought that reinstatement should happen. Compassion is an integral part of administration. If justice Bobde wanted to show compassion, its fine. I must have all respect to his decision since the power was delegated to him by me.At one point in the book, you say: “Some of my colleagues, while putting up a facade of support and sympathy which I did not seek, actually worked against me behind my back.” Do you believe that some of your colleagues were either behind the controversy or stoking it? \Yes. This is a fact. I have written this book for truths to emerge. Every sentence of the book is correct. I have not speculated about anything. But I would not speculate on who had what in mind; who works with what motive, one cannot fathom. What I have said in the book is that there was a brother judge who tried to be kind on face of it but behind my back, he was no kind.You write in your book that the then CJI, justice Dipak Misra, threatened “to resign if justice KM Joseph was not appointed” to the Supreme Court by the government. He was finally appointed in August 2018.For one reason or another, justice Jospeh’s elevation was not coming through. As the CJI, justice Misra had to put his foot down. I came to know that he had to apply a greater degree of pressure on the government. Full marks to justice Misra for doing this! He performed the true role of a CJI. Eventually, the ultimate word lies with the judiciary in matters of judicial appointments. When the judiciary is right and fair but the executive is obstinate, the judiciary must have its way.What do you have to say about joining the January 2018 press conference with three other senior judges?The judges at that point in time felt there was no alternative since justice Misra was not inclined to listen to the senior judges about the issues relating to listing of matters etc. At that time, the press conference was certainly required. And it did produce certain positive results. Hopefully, such occasions do no arise in future. But it is an experience from which the institution has learnt something.You were often criticised as the innovator of sealed cover envelopes in the Supreme Court. Even the hearings of the PIL in Jain Hawala Diary case was conducted by the Supreme Court in-camera (confidentially) in 1990s. Forget the materials produced, even the hearings were done minus everybody. Sealed cover has been adopted in 2G, coal block allocation cases; all investigation reports are submitted in sealed cover. Even an activist lawyer submitted his own report in Shaheen Bagh protest case in a sealed cover. Why Gogoi? Why? Justice SK Kaul writes an order (in Rafale) but it becomes Gogoi’s judgment. Sealed covers have been there in the Supreme Court since 1990s but Gogoi becomes the innovator of sealed cover. Why Gogoi? Is it because Gogoi comes from North-East and not from mainstream India?You belong to Assam. It is said that you could not have heard the case of National Register for Citizens (NRC) dispassionately and therefore, you should not have passed orders for rolling out NRC in Assam? I have said it in my book that the incapacity to hear a case must be felt by the judge himself. Is it that because I am from Assam, I should not take cases from Assam? And these cases from Assam affect the nation is what the Supreme Court said in Sarbananda Sonowal Case (2005). There is a case which has come before me that concerns Assam but touches India. Is Assam not a part of India? Should I ignore national interest just because I am from Assam? Is that the meaning of the oath I have taken as a judge? I refuse to understand the meaning of my oath in this manner. Do you know that I also had to apply for NRC, prove my linkage to my ancestors, give supporting documents like everybody else?
09-12-2021||India||Cabinet clears Ken-Betwa river linking project||The Union Cabinet led by Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Wednesday approved the interlinking of the Ken and Betwa rivers at a cost of ₹44,605 crore, which will be completed in eight years. A massive infrastructure project, the linking of the two rivers will be bring water to the perennially drought-hit and impoverished Bundelkhand region, spread across the states of Madhya Pradesh and Uttar Pradesh. The Cabinet approved a special purpose vehicle called the Ken-Betwa Link Project Authority to be set up to implement the project, which will generate 103 MW of hydro power as well as 27 MW solar energy, an official statement said. The Ken-Betwa project involves building a dam on river Ken, a major river of the Bundelkhand region, with a 221-km canal to transfer “surplus” water to the Betwa basin. It was first mooted during the tenure of former prime minister Atal Behari Vajpayee. This project will provide water to the districts of Panna, Tikamgarh, Chhatarpur, Sagar, Damoh, Datia, Vidisha, Shivpuri and Raisen in Madhya Pradesh, besides Banda, Mahoba, Jhansi and Lalitpur in Uttar Pradesh. The Madhya Pradesh government has approved mandatory alternative land to compensate habitat loss in swathes of the Panna Tiger Reserve due to the river-linking project. According to the statement, this project involves transfer of water from the Ken to the Betwa through the construction of the Daudhan Dam and a canal linking the two rivers. The canal will provide drinking water to an estimated 6.2 million people, according to the project’s plan and bring 10.62 lakh hectare under annual irrigation. Thanking the Prime Minister for approving the project, Madhya Pradesh chief minister Shivraj Singh Chouhan said: “This project will prove to be a boon for Bundelkhand. The project will provide irrigation and drinking water to drought-prone areas of Chhatarpur, Panna and Tikamgarh in Madhya Pradesh and generate 103 MW of hydropower and 27 MW of solar power. This project will bring prosperity in Bundelkhand.” “This project will particularly benefit Uttar Pradesh as well as up to Panna, Tikamgarh, Chhatarpur, Sagar, Damoh, Datia, Vidisha, Shivpuri and Raisen of Madhya Pradesh. This project, which is slated to be completed in eight years, will change the lives of people Bundelkhand,” he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/cabinet-clears-ken-betwa-river-linking-project-101638989605087.html
09-12-2021||India||First among Generals: CDS Rawat was a fauji to the core||India’s first chief of defence staff General Bipin Rawat, 63, was an outspoken military leader who took pride in his convictions, took hard decisions at the cost of becoming unpopular in certain circles, thought outside the box, and was known to challenge status quo, people who have known him for decades said.He was also a dog lover, a rare general who didn’t play golf, and a commander whose leadership and courage were acknowledged on foreign soil too.General Rawat epitomised military professionalism like no one else, said a retired three-star general who was among Rawat’s best friends. “He was driven by his own convictions. He took strong decisions even if they were not popular. The organisation’s interests were always topmost for him and he didn’t really care about his own popularity,” said Lieutenant General BS Sandhu (retd), who knew Rawat for more than 45 years and was his course mate at the Khadakwasla-based National Defence Academy.Rawat’s previous appointments included those of the army chief, army vice chief, Southern Army commander, corps commander in the North-east and division commander in Kashmir.But the assignment he really loved talking about most was his tenure as the commander of United Nations’ North Kivu Brigade in the Democratic Republic of Congo in the late 2000s. “It was one of my most memorable assignments. I am glad I could make a difference there,” Rawat told HT a few years ago.When he took charge of the brigade, things weren’t going too well for the world’s costliest peacekeeping mission, known by its French acronym MONUC. The locals were contemptuous of UN peacekeepers, questioning what difference they had made and accusing the mission of doing little to protect them. Angry crowds would often hurl stones at UN vehicles on the streets of Goma, the capital of North Kivu and where the Indian brigade is based.“We were not fighting with our equipment, despite Chapter VII of the UN Charter authorising the use of force in some scenarios. We have decided to fight with our equipment,” Rawat said during the conflict in eastern Congo in 2008.Rawat reworked the velvet-glove strategy to an iron fist within a month of his arrival, frequently authorising the use of attack helicopters to strafe positions held by rebel groups responsible for civilian deaths, recruiting child soldiers and displacing millions of people. He was able to control the situation quickly.Under Rawat’s leadership, the Indian brigade saved a key Congolese province from being overrun by rebels. Lieutenant General Babacar Gaye, then Force Commander of the UN mission in the Congo, wrote in the commendation awarded to Rawat that it was due to his “leadership, courage and experience” that North Kivu’s capital Goma never fell, the country’s eastern region was stabilised and the main rebel group was forced to come to the negotiating table.General Rawat was a man with tremendous moral courage, said Lieutenant General Ajai Singh, who heads the Andaman & Nicobar Command and reported directly to the CDS. “He was an exceptional military leader, with a rare, larger vision for integrated warfighting,” Singh said.From changing the face of UN peacekeeping to closely supervising India’s two publicly acknowledged surgical strikes on foreign soil, Rawat brought enormous experience to the table as India’s first CDS, something acknowledged by Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Wednesday.Son of a three-star general, Rawat was commissioned into the army in December 1978 after graduating from the Dehradun-based Indian Military Academy where he was awarded the Sword of Honour. He was commissioned into the 5/11 Gorkha Rifles.The National Democratic Alliance government superseded two top generals — Lieutenant Generals Praveen Bakshi and PM Hariz — to appoint him army chief in 2016.In a statement, the Indian Army said Rawat was a visionary who initiated far reaching reforms in the military’s higher defence organisation, and was instrumental in creating the foundation of India’s joint theatre commands and giving impetus to the increased indigenisation of military equipment, a legacy which will be carried on and strengthened by successive generations.
09-12-2021||India||Treat Omicron cases in separate facilities: Centre to states, UTs||The Centre on Wednesday directed all states and Union territories to treat patients infected with the Omicron variant of Covid-19 in designated facilities with separate isolation areas to avoid cross-transmission.In a letter to the states and UTs, Union health secretary Rajesh Bhushan said: “All omicron positive cases have to be treated in designated Covid facilities with separate isolation areas earmarked for Omicron positive patients. It has to be ensured that no cross infection takes place and adequate precautions are taken by health care workers in these facilities to prevent transmission among other patients and health care workers.”The health secretary also asked the state governments to ensure that samples of positive cases of international travelers and their contacts as well as from emerging hot spots are promptly submitted to INSACOG labs for genome sequencing, as per protocols.All states will also have to ensure that all international travellers who have arrived in India from any of the “at risk” countries, get tested for Coronavirus disease on the eighth day, Bhushan said.As many as 23 cases of Omicron variant were reported in the country till Wednesday night. Several states have already stepped up checks and restrictions in the wake of the potential threat from the Covid variant that has now spread to over 50 countries.“Further to contain the spread, it is imperative that states may follow a mission mode and focused approach of quickly tracking the primary and secondary contacts of the positive cases and facilitate testing for them as per the protocol. It is critical to track all contacts of such cases, quarantine them without delay and test them as per the guidelines,” the letter said.Community surveillance should be prioritised to follow up positive cases as well as contacts on a daily basis to monitor their clinical status and to keep a check on symptoms. Further, with the onset of winter and increased pollution in some states, prevalence of influenza like illness, severe acute respiratory infection and respiratory distress symptoms should also be closely monitored, Bhushan said.Experts said tracking, testing and treating is crucial to contain the spread of the new variant.“These are the key measures needed to both control or prevent the spread. India has taken several aggressive measures such as strict screening of international passengers on arrival, that should work well,” Dr Amita Jain, head of Microbiology department, King George’s Medical University, Lucknow, said.
09-12-2021||India||December 8: What we know about Omicron variant so far||The findings from the first lab studies to estimate how resistant the Omicron variant could be were published early on Wednesday, unanimously predicting what could be the biggest hit yet to the protection offered by coronavirus vaccines, although experts said fully vaccinated people may still have a substantially better chance of averting severe disease.The findings are based on lab tests in which researchers expose a live virus or an engineered virus expressing the same mutations as the Omicron variant to antibodies drawn from people who were given doses or had a past infection, or both.The first was from researchers in South Africa, where the variant of concern (VOC) has spread rapidly, leading to an unprecedented explosion in new cases. The scientists found there was a 41.4-fold drop in neutralisation ability overall, to the point that variant almost completely escaped the antibodies from most fully vaccinated samples. But, crucially, five out of six samples of antibodies from people who were fully vaccinated and had a past disease could neutralise the virus.Two other studies, by separate teams of researchers based in Sweden and Germany, made similar findings, including a massive drop in neutralisation titers, which is calculated on the basis of concentration required for antibodies to neutralise the virus – the more concentration, therefore more antibodies, needed, the sharper is the drop in the titer.A fourth study conducted by Pfizer and its subsidiary BioNTech too recorded a 25-fold drop in titers when antibodies from people with two doses were exposed to Omicron, but the deficit disappeared when antibodies from people with a third booster dose was used.What does this mean?The studies confirm what immunologists were hypothesising seeing the unprecedented number of mutations in Omicron: the ability of past immunity, elicited either solely by vaccination or only by history of disease is likely to be significantly hampered in staving off an Omicron infection.But crucially, the immune escape is only partial, not total, and that those with hybrid immunity – vaccinated as well as recovered from Covid-19 – are likely to have substantial protection. Hybrid immunity has long been regarded as a sort of gold standard of protection against the Sars-Cov-2.Pfizer, in its statement, contends that its third shot offers significantly higher protection, although the study from Frankfurt university researchers appears to conclude that even with boosters, neutralisation titers show a significant drop.Scientists also said that vaccine efficacy against severe disease and death is likely to remain reasonably high among all groups – those with a past infection, full vaccination, vaccination and infection, and boosted vaccination.This is likely due to the activation of memory cells, particularly T cells, which can recognise the pathogen more broadly and are less affected by mutations in Omicron – something Pfizer alluded to in its statement.“Although two doses of the vaccine may still offer protection against severe disease caused by the Omicron strain, it’s clear from these preliminary data that protection is improved with a third dose of our vaccine,” said Albert Bourla, chief executive of Pfizer. “Ensuring as many people as possible are fully vaccinated with the first two dose series and a booster remains the best course of action to prevent the spread of Covid-19.”The four lab tests are still using small numbers of samples and must be seen as preliminary, and they do not signal whether the drop in vaccine efficacy will be in similar measure. Measuring neutralisation in lab setting is not a proxy for vaccine efficacy, but they do act as a correlate.Implication for IndiaThe high transmissibility of Omicron variant is a cause for concern for India as it is globally. India’s mainstay vaccines have also demonstrated lower efficacy across the board when compared to mRNA vaccines.In late July, the Indian Council of Medical Research estimated that two out of every three Indians may have been exposed to the virus, translating to a high proportion of the general public likely exposed to an infection. As on December 8, the country has also delivered at least one dose to 86% of the adult population.India, therefore, likely has a different immune profile to other countries, especially those where vaccine coverage and case rates have been low. A sizeable number of people may even have hybrid immunity.But the findings from the studies published in the last 24 hours reinforce the need for a booster dose strategy in the country, particularly for the elderly population that was mostly covered in the first half of 2021. How Omicron spreads among children will also be of crucial implication for India, where no one under the age of 18 is eligible for a dose yet.
09-12-2021||India||Farmers set to call off stir as govt agrees to demands||The Samyukt Kisan Morcha, a platform of protesting farm unions, said on Wednesday that it was close to sealing a deal with the Union government after the two sides settled on a set of revised draft proposals to resolve the pending demands of the cultivators. The SKM is likely to ask tens of thousands of its farmer activists across states to call off a 14-month-long movement against the Modi government on Thursday. However, an end to the agitation was still contingent upon an officially signed letter from the Union government based on the agreed draft proposals, SKM leaders said. “The government has taken two steps forward. We are in agreement to all the revised proposals. The government must now convert these proposals into an official letter, which we are ready to sign,” Gurnam Singh Charuni, a farm leader said after the breakthrough meetingThe apparent compromise between the Centre and protesting farm unions arrived after two days of back-channel negotiations that saw proposals being sent back and forth between a five-member negotiating team of the SKM and the Union government. A crucial meeting of the SKM’s team at the Singhu protest site on the capital’s outskirts on Wednesday began with a two-minute silence to mourn the death of the country’s top military general, chief of defence staff Bipin Rawat, and 12 others in a helicopter crash on Wednesday in Tamil Nadu. The five members, who were authorised by the SKM to take decisions on behalf of all farm unions, unanimously accepted the Centre’s revised draft after a two-hour-long meeting. The SKM, on December 4 named five of its senior-most members to negotiate with the Centre: Ashok Dhawale, Balbir Singh Rajewal, Gurnam Singh Chaduni, Shiv Kumar Kakkaji and Yudhvir Singh. Earlier on Tuesday, the five-member panel raised various points of contention on draft proposals sent by the Centre, sending them back to the home ministry seeking revisions. The Centre then reworked the proposals, paving the way for an imminent agreement. Charuni said the farmers’ team would not divulge the specifics of the proposals agreed by it until a formal letter was received from the Centre. The SKM will meet again at noon on Thursday. “The government’s letter should reach us by noon tomorrow. Only then, we will take a decision on calling off the agitation,” he addedOn November 19, the Union government gave in to a major demand of the farmers when Prime Minister Narendra Modi announced his government would abandon three farm-reform laws that had sparked the year-long protests. On November 29, Parliament repealed the laws that farmers say were against their interests. The revised draft proposals, which was agreed upon by the SKM’s team, provide for a committee “mandated to ensure Minimum Support Price can be granted to all farmers”, an SKM leader from Haryana said, requesting anonymity because he was not authorised to speak. The Centre has also given a written assurance that it would not reduce the current level of procurement of farm produce at assured prices, a second farm leader said, also asking not to be named. The key proposal that clinched the deal relates to withdrawal of all police cases registered against farmers during the course of the protests. In its earlier proposal, the government said it would ensure cases against farmers would be taken back once the farmers called off their protests. The five-member team of farm leaders objected to this conditionality. “In its revised proposal, the government has said it would ensure cases are taken back with immediate effect,” the farm leader quoted in the first instance said. A third farm leader, who asked not to be named said there were still a few sticking points. One, the SKM doesn’t want farm organisations other than its affiliates to be part of the proposed committee to be formed to look into farm-produce prices. Second, the revised draft still did not mention a law guaranteeing minimum support prices, a key demand of the farmers. Third, although the Union government has assured in writing there would be no criminal liability on farmers for burning crop residue, a key source of air pollution, the SKM wants the Centre to free farmers from even civil liabilities, such as fines for stubble burning. The farm protests, which first started in Punjab before spreading across states such as Uttar Pradesh, Haryana, Madhya Pradesh, Maharashtra and Uttarakhand, have posed a major challenge for the Modi government. Farmers first held demonstrations in Punjab in October 2020, soon after Parliament passed the three contentious agricultural laws by a voice vote and without discussion, as India was battling the Covid-19 pandemic. The laws seek to open up the country’s food markets to greater corporate participation. While Modi argued that the laws would have widened markets for cultivators, farm unions said they legislation would have allowed big corporations and supermarket chains to dictate low prices, hurting their livelihood. The Union government’s decision to scrap the laws came as the Bharatiya Janata Party, Modi’s party, prepares to fight upcoming state elections, especially in Uttar Pradesh, Punjab and Uttarakhand, where farmers are an influential voting bloc. “The acceptance of farmers’ demands after a year-long protests is a great victory for the farmers. It demonstrates that the farming community has reclaimed their political space through a peaceful agitation,” said Sudhir Panwar, a professor with Lucknow University. 
09-12-2021||India||Cabinet clears extension of rural housing scheme||The Union Cabinet on Wednesday approved the continuation of the Pradhan Mantri Awaas Yojana – Gramin (PMAY-G) till March 2024, saying the flagship national programme to provide financial assistance for building houses in rural regions needed another three years to meet targets. The original deadline of the scheme was 2022.Union information and broadcasting minister Anurag Thakur told reporters that the central government will provide financial support for constructing the remaining 15.5 million houses, out of the targeted 29.5 million “pucca houses”. The number of houses pending completion was 15.5 million as on March 31, 2021.“The continuation of scheme till March 2024 ensures that the remaining 155.75 lakh (15.575 million) households within overall target of 2.95 crore (29.5 million) houses under PMAY-G would be provided assistance for construction of pucca houses with basic amenities to achieve the objective of “Housing for All” in rural areas,” said a government statement, released after the meeting chaired by Prime Minister Narendra Modi.Till November 29, 16.5 million PMAY-G houses had been constructed, said the government. By August 2022, the original deadline of the scheme, 20.2 million houses will be ready.The government said that in order to complete the remaining houses, PMAY-G will continue till March 2024 as per existing norms.“The total financial implication for construction of the remaining 155.75 lakh (15.575 million) houses is Rs. 2,17,257 crore (central share ₹1,25,106 crore and state share Rs.73,475 crores) for achieving cumulative targets of 2.95 crore (29.5 million) houses in rural areas under the PMAY-G and an additional requirement of Rs.18,676 crore towards the interest repayment to NABARD,” said the statement.The expenditure for the scheme is shared 60:40 between the Centre and the states for all states other than Himalayan states and those in the north-east, for whom the split is 90:10. The split is also 90:10 for union territories.The government also said that an additional ₹45 lakh administrative funds (to manage the scheme) will be given to each smaller state every year. These are Himachal Pradesh, Haryana, Goa, Punjab, Uttarakhand, the North-East states except Assam and Tripura, and all Union Territories except Jammu & Kashmir . This amount will be over and above 1.7 % administrative funds (1.7% of the funds given for the scheme) released.The aim of the scheme, launched in 2016 was to provide a proper house to all houseless individuals or to those families living in so-called kutcha houses. Households are selected on the basis of the socia economic and caste census of 2011, and verified by local authorities.“I don’t see an extension, unless they have or had a plan to close the scheme. This scheme has always existed. Hence the word ‘extension’ doesn’t mean anything. The government is basically just saying that the program is going to continue. I don’t see any announcement of extension in this.” said Himangshu, professor, Jawahar Lal Nehru University.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/cabinet-clears-extension-of-rural-housing-scheme-101638988583372.html
09-12-2021||India||Chopper crash kills CDS Rawat, 12 others||India’s first chief of defence staff (CDS) General Bipin Rawat, his wife Madhulika Raje Singh Rawat, and 11 others were killed on Wednesday when an Indian Air Force (IAF) chopper crashed near Cooonor in Tamil Nadu in an air tragedy that shocked the three services and came as a huge setback to the country’s biggest military reforms since Independence.The only survivor of the crash, Group Captain Varun Singh, is under medical treatment at the Military Hospital in Wellington.Rawat, 63, the country’s most senior military officer and longest serving four-star general, had survived a chopper crash in February 2015 in Nagaland.“With deep regret, it has now been ascertained that Gen Bipin Rawat, Mrs Madhulika Rawat and 11 other persons on board have died in the unfortunate accident,” IAF said in a statement on Twitter.The dead include Rawat’s defence assistant Brigadier LS Lidder and the CDS’s staff officer Lieutenant Colonel Harjinder Singh, it is learnt. Fourteen people, including the chopper’s crew, were on board the Russian-origin Mi-17V5, a modern and reliable military helicopter that was being flown by Wing Commander PS Chauhan, the commanding officer of 109 Helicopter Unit, and his co-pilot Squadron Leader K Singh. The other two IAF personnel on board were junior warrant officers Rana Pratap Das and Pradeep A.The army identified the others killed as Havildar Satpal Rai, Naik Gursewak Singh, Naik Jitender Kumar, Lance Naik Vivek Kumar and Lance Naik BS Teja.“Gen Bipin Rawat was an outstanding soldier. A true patriot, he greatly contributed to modernising our armed forces and security apparatus. His insights and perspectives on strategic matters were exceptional. His passing away has saddened me deeply. Om Shanti,” Prime Minister Narendra Modi wrote on Twitter.The PM added that, as India’s first CDS, Rawat worked on diverse aspects relating to the armed forces including higher defence reforms and brought with him rich experience of serving in the army. “India will never forget his exceptional service.”IAF chief Air Chief Marshal Vivek Ram Chaudhari rushed to the crash site to take stock of the situation. An inquiry has been ordered into the crash, the air force said.An eyewitness said he heard a loud explosion when the helicopter hit the ground. “I’ve never heard a blast like that,” said K Raja, who lives among the 100-odd families in the hilly village in Nanjappa Chatram, 4km from Coonoor. His daughter, Sangeeta, said that while the air was “misty” when the crash happened, there was no rain in the area.Defence minister Rajnath Singh, who visited Rawat’s residence shortly after news of the crash broke, later tweeted: “General Rawat had served the country with exceptional courage and diligence. As the first Chief of Defence Staff he had prepared plans for jointness of our Armed Forces... His untimely death is an irreparable loss to our Armed Forces and the country.”Rawat was on a visit to the prestigious Defence Services Staff College (DSSC) at Wellington to address the faculty and student officers there, officials said. Singh, the sole survivor of the crash and a decorated fighter pilot, is directing staff at DSSC.The chopper was on its way from the Sulur air base to DSSC when it went down near Coonoor. The CDS, his wife and seven others had flown to Sulur from New Delhi in an Embraer jet of the IAF’s VVIP communication squadron.The helicopter’s cockpit voice recorder and flight data recorder, if undamaged, will give clues to what went wrong during the last moments before the crash, said Air Vice Marshal Manmohan (retd), former additional director general, Centre for Air Power Studies. “Any aircraft accident is shocking. The Mi-17V5 has a good flight safety record, it’s a reliable machine and pilots swear by it,” Bahadur added.The Mi-17V5 can carry a load of around four tonnes in a cargo role. It can fly at extremely low altitudes and insert troops behind the enemy lines.THEATERISATION DRIVERThe CDS’s shocking demise will have implications for the ongoing military reforms, including theaterisation, and the government will have to move swiftly to announce a succession plan. Rawat survived a Cheetah crash in Dimapur in February 3, 2015. He was a lieutenant general at that time.Rawat was spearheading the military’s theaterisation drive to enhance the effectiveness of the armed forces and reshape the conduct of future operations. Rawat took over as CDS on December 31, 2019, after serving as army chief for a full three-year term. He held the four-star rank for almost five years.“General Rawat epitomised military professionalism like no one else. He was driven by his own convictions. He took strong decisions even if they were not popular. The organisation’s interest was topmost for him and he didn’t really care about his own popularity,” said Lieutenant General BS Sandhu (retd), who knew Rawat for more than 45 years and was his course mate at the Khadakwasla-based National Defence Academy.Sandhu’s wife Kuka and Madhulika Rawat attended Daulat Ram College in Delhi together.As CDS, Rawat wore multiple hats --- he was the permanent chairman of the chiefs of staff committee (COSC), headed the department of military affairs (DMA), and was the single-point military adviser to the defence minister.The National Democratic Alliance government superseded two top generals — Lieutenant Generals Praveen Bakshi and PM Hariz — to appoint him army chief in 2016. Rawat’s experience in Jammu & Kashmir and the North-East tipped the scales in his favour.Those who have known the general for several decades say Rawat always thought outside the box, took hard decisions and was not afraid of challenging status quo, qualities he drew on while working out the broad structures on India’s proposed theatre commands.SWORD OF HONOURSon of a three-star general, Rawat was commissioned into the army in December 1978 after graduating from the Dehradun-based Indian Military Academy, where he was awarded the coveted Sword of Honour for exceptional performance. He was commissioned into the 5/11 Gorkha Rifles.From changing the face of United Nations peacekeeping in the Democratic Republic of Congo (DRC) and initiating the biggest exercise to restructure the army to closely supervising India’s two publicly acknowledged surgical strikes on foreign soil, Rawat, a rare general who did not play golf, brought enormous experience to the table as India’s first CDS.The Rawats were planning to construct a house in Dehradun and wanted to settle there after the completion of his term as CDS, family friends said. They have two daughters, Kritika and Tarini.In a statement, the Indian Army said Rawat was a visionary who initiated far reaching reforms in the military’s higher defence organisation. “He was instrumental in creating the foundation of India’s joint theatre commands and giving impetus to the increased indigenisation of military equipment, a legacy which will be carried on and strengthened by successive generations,” the army added.The horrific Mi-17 crash near Coonoor came 58 years after six top military officials were killed in a chopper crash near Poonch on November 22, 1963 --- Lieutenant General Daulat Singh, Lieutenant General Bikram Singh, Air Vice Marshal EW Pinto, Major Gen KND Nanavati, Brigadier SR Oberoi and Flight Lieutenant SS Sodhi.
09-12-2021||India||2002 riots case of larger conspiracy, not limited to one person, SC told||The petitioners seeking an investigation into the larger conspiracy behind the Gujarat riots told the Supreme Court on Wednesday that they do not wish to contest the closure report against the then chief minister Narendra Modi submitted by the special investigation team (SIT) as there is no “undisputed” material to show that the larger conspiracy emanated from the meeting called by the CM on February 27, 2002.The submission was made by senior advocate Kapil Sibal appearing for the two petitioners , Zakia Ahsan Jafri, the widow of former Congress MP Ashan Jafri, and activist Teesta Setalvad. Reading out a statement prepared by the petitioners, Sibal said, “Our case is of larger conspiracy, not emanating from the February 27, 2002 meeting alone, but involving other persons such as bureaucrats, politicians, public prosecutors, police, VHP, Bajrang Dal and state functionaries, that is based on undisputed documents and facts that should have been investigated by SIT.”Sibal said, “My allegation of conspiracy is not limited to a person, but if the SIT would have investigated the Tehelka tapes and other material that we provided, you could have found out the larger conspiracy.” He said that a statement clarifying this aspect would be filed and should be taken on record. The statement said: “ SIT did not investigate the larger conspiracy, but limited itself to matters in dispute relating to a meeting of February 27, 2002. Qua that meeting, SIT has come to a certain conclusion which is part of the closure report. Since the petitioner has not made any submissions on disputed facts, the petitioner did not contend before this Court that a larger conspiracy emanated from the meeting of February 27, 2002 alone. In fact, during the course of submissions, no reference was made by the petitioner to this meeting at all.” During the hearing earlier in the day, the Court wished to know if the petitioners wished to press the allegations against the then chief minister who was named by Jafri in her June 2006 complaint as one out of 63 persons who needed to be probed for their involvement in failing to prevent the riots.The bench of justices AM Khanwilkar, Dinesh Maheshwari and CT Ravikumar said, “It was your allegation that at the highest level, the first person (in the state) was also involved….The SIT produced contemporaneous material to show there is no basis in the allegation that instructions came from the top. Charge sheet cannot be filed against persons without any material. If you have something more, tell us.”Sibal said that the allegation in the complaint was based on the statement made by suspended IPS officer Sanjiv Bhat who claimed to be present in the February 27 meeting. Later, it was revealed by SIT that he was not present at the meeting. “On day one I said that Bhat was not present. There was no other way to confirm the indication that a direction was issued by the chief minister. We have accepted that. At no stage did I try to implicate the ex-CM and I have not argued that even. The Court may accept the closure report to that extent. I have nothing to say on that.”The bench said, “The SIT has dealt with the larger conspiracy. The purpose of their investigation is to collate material, form an opinion and submit the report to the court. Now, according to you, conspiracy remains at the local level.”Sibal said, “A larger conspiracy involving individuals whose undisputed extra-judicial confessions are on tape, read along with inactions of officials demonstrated by undisputed documents, should have been investigated by the SIT….The extent of the conspiracy, the identity and number of individuals involved, the preparatory acts committed and the time, place and manner in which the meeting of minds for purposes of such conspiracy took place can only fully emerge on investigation.” He then showed the Court those portions in the Tehelka tapes and official documents which he claimed SIT failed to investigate. He also defended Setalvad on the allegations made by SIT that she tutored witnesses. “She has worked with NHRC, filed applications and even appeared before this court all along. SIT took no objection then and now her reputation is besmirched,” he said. “Victims in this country are not in a position to challenge the power of the state which is a monolith. It is difficult for them to challenge the mighty state. So, there are persons like the NHRC, citizens tribunal and Setalvad who help organize the victims,” Sibal added. Senior advocate Mukul Rohatgi appearing for SIT told the Court that he required some time to reply to the petitioners’ submission. The court posted the matter for Thursday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/2002-riots-case-of-larger-conspiracy-not-limited-to-one-person-sc-told-101638988582818.html
09-12-2021||India||Sonia Gandhi condemns action on Rajya Sabha MPs, attacks govt on prices||Congress president Sonia Gandhi on Wednesday lashed out at the Narendra Modi government over the price rise and the economic situation, dubbed the suspension of 12 Opposition MPs “outrageous” and “unprecedented”, demanded a “full-fledged discussion on the border situation and relations with our neighbours” and also sought justice for families of victims in the Nagaland killings. Addressing the Congress Parliamentary Party at the Central Hall of Parliament, Gandhi hailed the farm organisations for their 13 month-long protests and said, “It is the solidarity and tenacity, of the farmers, their discipline and dedication that has forced an arrogant government to climbdown.” She reiterated the commitment “to stand by the farmers” to demand a legally guaranteed minimum support prices (MSP), remunerative prices and compensation to the bereaved families. While the government has already passed the repeal bill in both Houses of Parliament, Gandhi slammed its hasty passage. “In this government’s usual style, the repeal was done undemocratically just as their passage last year was pushed through without discussion,” she said.Her comments came on Wednesday morning, before the apex body representing farmers said it reached an agreement with the government. Gandhi’s political attack on the National Democratic Alliance (NDA) government was centered on the plank of the common people. “I cannot understand how and why the Modi government is so insensitive and continues to deny the seriousness of the problem (price rise). It seems impervious to the suffering of the people.” The Congress president, who addressed the party’s parliamentary wing for the first time in the stormy winter session, said the prices of edible oils, pulses and vegetables are “burning a hole in the monthly budget of every household” while the spiraling price of cement, steel and other basic industrial commodities “does not bode well for economic recovery.” She questioned the government’s claims of economic recovery and said, “But recovery for whom is the real question?” reiterating the allegation that the government works for a chosen few. “It means nothing to those millions who have lost their livelihoods, and to those MSMEs whose businesses have been crippled—not just by Covid19 pandemic but also by the combined effects of notebandi (demonetisation) and the hasty implementation of a flawed GST (goods and services tax),” she said. Gandhi blamed the Centre’s “half-hearted and ill-advised responses” to tackle the economy and maintained the recent cut in the excise rates on fuel “totally insufficient and inadequate.” “And all this while, the Centre persists with huge public expenditure on vainglorious projects!” Gandhi added, in an indirect reference to the Central Vista project. The Opposition had earlier demanded that the Central Vista redevelopment must stop and the funds should to diverted for health infrastructure and other social welfare expenses. Minutes before the entire Opposition in the Rajya Sabha joined the sit-in stir at the Mahatma Gandhi statue, the Congress president said the suspension of 12 MPs was “outrageous” and “unprecedented” and said, “it shook us all”. She added that the suspension from the entire session “violates both the Constitution and the Rules of Procedure and Conduct of Business of the Council of states.” The MPs were suspended for unruly scenes seen in the previous session of Parliament.She maintained the government’s regret for the Nagaland killings is “not enough” and demanded “credible steps” to prevent any future occurrence of such “ghastly tragedies”. In a botched operation on Saturday, security forces killed 14 civilians in Nagaland’s Mon district.The Congress president disapproved the government’s monetisation plan as “disastrous” and said, “The Modi government is busy selling off precious national assets like banks, insurance companies, public sector enterprises, railways and airports. First, the Prime Minister destroyed the economy with his demonetisation move of November 2016. He is continuing on that disastrous path, but calling it monetisation.” She wondered what would happen to employment of scheduled castes and tribes if public sector companies and institutions continue to be privatised. “Already lakhs upon lakhs of people, mostly young, have joined and continue to join the ranks of the unemployed,” Gandhi told the lawmakers. Private-sector firms are not bound by the government’s reservation rules, which set aside a number of positions for members of the scheduled castes and tribes.Gandhi found it “extraordinary” that no discussion has been held on the continuing challenges faced on our borders. “Such a discussion would have also been an opportunity to demonstrate a collective will and resolve. The government may not want to answer difficult questions but it is the right and duty of the Opposition to seek clarifications and explanations.” HT reached out to Bharatiya Janata Party leaders for a comment but could not get one immediately.
09-12-2021||India||General Bipin Rawat loved sweets, fauj and was wary of China||Chief of Defence Staff General Bipin Rawat was often politically incorrect, much to the chagrin of the straightjacketed military and diplomatic establishment on Raisina Hill — but he was the man that they decided would lead India in the worst-case scenario. Blunt, outspoken and with integrity of the highest order, Rawat was not afraid of speaking his mind to either politicians or the three service chiefs when it came to military reform and the defence of the country. He was a fighter and a nationalist to the core.Wednesday’s accident, which took his life, was not the first time Rawat was in a helicopter crash. On February 3, 2015, when he was III Corps Commander, he cheated death when his Cheetah helicopter crashed at Dimapur. Indeed, he took off to meet the Eastern Army Commander in Arunachal Pradesh in the next available helicopter before being medically grounded on account of a spinal injury. He had his ankle mangled after a huge stone hit him while on an operation against the Pakistanis on the Line of Control (LoC) in the Uri sector in Kashmir and had a wound medal — but he never claimed disability allowance by lowering his medical category.CDS Rawat chopper crash: PM Modi chairs CCS meet, Rajnath, NSA in attendanceThe General from Pauri Garhwal came to the notice of the Narendra Modi government after he, as Dimapur Corps Commander, supervised a strike against NSCN (K) insurgents on and across the Indo-Myanmar border by Special Forces in June 2015. Prior to that he performed exceptionally as the 19 Division commander in the Uri sector against the Pakistanis. Gen. Rawat came into his own as a military commander when he took on the Chinese PLA at Doklam Plateau on the Sikkim-Bhutan-Tibet trijunction in June 2017. Despite all odds, Rawat, with the full support of Prime Minister Narendra Modi and National Security Advisor Ajit Doval stopped the PLA from building a road to the Jhampheri Ridge, which would have made India vulnerable in the Siliguri corridor. History will record the stubbornness and resolve of the Indian Army even as Beijing issued daily verbal and physical military threats to force them to back off. Gen Rawat not only prepared his army for vertical escalation but also had the confidence of his political bosses, national security planners and intelligence chiefs.Rawat, who had a huge sweet tooth, had the rare ability to reach out across the ranks of not just the Indian Army, but the two other services as well when he became India's first CDS on January 1, 2020. He had very little time for military pomp, show and regalia and was happiest amongst his troops. He was a leader of men and abhorred the paraphernalia associated with army generals. He stopped playing golf just to set an example to other officers.When the Chinese PLA transgressed across the Ladakh LAC in April 2020, the Modi government turned to Gen Rawat and the present Army Chief Gen M N Naravane to handle the show.General Rawat along with the NSA and External Affairs Minister formed the core group for diplomatically and militarily tackling the aggressive PLA. National security planners vividly remember that Gen Rawat knew each and every hill feature and track on the south bank of Pangong Tso and the Kailash Ranges during the planning of the offensive on August 29-31, 2020. It was ultimately this offensive on the south bank that forced the PLA to restore status quo ante on the north bank of the lake. He was totally focused on the Chinese activity along the LAC and knew that the real threat to India came from Beijing. And to that extent he never took the Chinese word on its face value.As a military administrator in-charge of military affairs, PM Modi tasked Gen Rawat to create theatre commands and modernize the army with rationalization of forces and equipment. Even though many within the military, particularly the Air Force, did not like the move as it led to loss of power for the service chief, Gen Rawat was relentless in his pursuit. He prepared the full draft proposal for the military theatre commands last November and gave it to the three service chiefs for comments till June 2022. Gen Rawat used to say that this was a mandate that PM Modi had given to him, and he would complete it during the 75th year of Indian independence regardless.Gen Rawat is no more, and it is for Prime Minister Narendra Modi to ensure that all the work already done on jointmanship is not shelved by the military-civilian bureaucracy of the day.When, as Army Chief General Rawat and his men confronted the PLA at Doklam Plateau in June 2017 at Sikkim-Bhutan-Tibet trijunction, a top functionary recalls, he used to say, “When in doubt, one should pray”.Today, we pray for the fearless CDS.
09-12-2021||India||NIA court orders Bharadwaj’s release on ₹50,000 cash surety||A special National Investigation Agency (NIA) court in Mumbai on Wednesday ordered activist Sudha Bharadwaj, an accused in the 2018 Bhima Koregaon case, be released from jail after furnishing a surety amount of ₹50,000. Special NIA judge Dinesh Kothalikar rejected the 60-year-old activist’s plea to let her stay in Chhattisgarh and Delhi, where she worked before, and prohibited her from leaving the jurisdiction of the special NIA court in Mumbai, also ordering her to surrender her passport. The court restrained her from speaking to the media on the case though her counsel, advocate Yug Chaudhry, opposed the condition and said it was “an infringement of her freedom of speech”.The court allowed her plea for furnishing a cash bond of ₹50,000 for three months, so as to enable her to arrange sureties. “We have completed all formalities by Wednesday evening around 6.30 pm and have even dropped her released bond in the bail box at Byculla Women’s prison. The box will be opened on Thursday morning around 5 am so Bharadwaj should walk out of jail on Thursday,” said Chandni Chawla, counsel for Bharadwaj.Bharadwaj, who was arrested in 2018, is currently at the Byculla women’s prison in Mumbai The development came a day after the Supreme Court dismissed the NIA’s petition against the bail granted by the Bombay high court to Bharadwaj, who is facing charges under the Unlawful Activities Prevention Act (UAPA) for allegedly participating in a purported Maoist conspiracy to trigger violence on January 1, 2018, in Maharashtra’s Bhima Koregaon village.On December 1, the Bombay HC allowed default bail to Bharadwaj, underlining that a Pune sessions judge, who granted police a 90-day extension on November 26, 2018, to file the charge sheet, did not have jurisdiction to do so as only a special NIA court could hear UAPA cases. The HC pointed out that the Pune sessions court was not notified as a special court under the NIA Act. Also, there was already a special NIA court in existence in Pune at the relevant time, it had noted. On Tuesday, an apex court bench, headed by justice Uday U Lalit, held that there was no infirmity in the December 1 high court order granting default bail on account of the legal lacuna in investigating agency’s seeking time beyond 90 days in filing a charge sheet in the case. Bharadwaj is the first person in the high-profile case to be granted default bail. The high court rejected the bail applications of eight co-accused, all of whom face terrorism and conspiracy charges under the UAPA.One of the other accused, poet Varavara Rao, is out on medical bail, and a second accused, Jesuit priest Stan Swamy, died in July.The activists are accused of delivering inflammatory speeches during an event called Elgar Parishad organised in Pune on December 31, 2017. The activists have denied all charges and accused the prosecution of planting evidence.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/nia-court-allows-sudha-bharadwaj-bail-against-cash-bond-101638951379194.html
09-12-2021||NA||‘Will remember Gen Rawat as an exceptional leader’, Blinken tweets||Welcome to hindustantimes.com live updates platform where you can find breaking news from India and across the world. Find fast updates about the latest news as it breaks.Missed an important news update? Worried about what is happening in the world of finance and how it will impact you? Want to know about the latest update on Covid-19? Don't worry, we have you covered.Follow all the updates here:WATCH | Coonoor chopper crash that killed CDS Gen Bipin Rawat, his wife and 11 others‘Will remember Gen Rawat as an exceptional leader’: Blinken tweetsMy deep condolences on the deaths of Indian Chief of Defense Staff General Rawat, his wife, and colleagues who perished in today’s tragic accident. We'll remember Gen. Rawat as an exceptional leader who served his country and contributed to the U.S.-India defense relationship. https://t.co/yjLv9R05onUS secretary of state Anthony Blinken took to Twitter to share his condolences on the demise of CDS Bipin Rawat, his wife Madhulika Rawat, and 11 others in the IAF chopper crash near Coonoor in Tamil Nadu. “We'll remember Gen Rawat as an exceptional leader who served his country and contributed to the US-India defense relationship,” Blinken tweeted.Uttarakhand govt declares three-day state mourning for demise of CDS Bipin RawatUttarakhand government has declared a three-day state mourning from December 9 to 11 to condole the death of CDS Bipin Rawat.Cremation of CDS Bipin Rawat, and his wife to be held on FridayCremation of Chief of Defence Staff General Bipin Rawat and his wife to be conducted on December 10 in Delhi Cantonment, reports ANI. “Their mortal remains are expected to arrive in the [Delhi] in a military plane by tomorrow evening,” the report added.In today's CCS meeting led by PM, 2 minutes of silence observed for IAF chopper crash victimsDuring today's CCS meeting chaired by PM Narendra Modi, and attended by Union home minister Amit Shah, NSA Ajit Doval, and external affairs minister S Jaishankar, among others, observed two minutes of silence and paid tributes to the deceased in the IAF chopper crash. CDS Bipin Rawat and his wife Madhulika Rawat were among 13, who lost their lives in the crash that happened near Coonoor in Tamil Nadu.‘Served with utmost diligence’: PM Modi says he is ‘deeply anguished’ by the IAF chopper crash in which CDS Bipin Rawat diedGen Bipin Rawat was an outstanding soldier. A true patriot, he greatly contributed to modernising our armed forces and security apparatus. His insights and perspectives on strategic matters were exceptional. His passing away has saddened me deeply. Om Shanti. pic.twitter.com/YOuQvFT7EtPrime Minister Narendra Modi took to Twitter to offer condolences for the death of CDS Bipin Rawat, his wife Madhulika Rawat, and 11 others who died in the IAF chopper crash. In a series of tweets, PM said Rawat was an “outstanding soldier” and a “true patriot”, who served with “utmost diligence.” Read more.SKM unanimously accepts Centre's revised draft policyThe five-member committee of SKM has unanimously accepted the revised draft proposals from Centre, farm union leader Inderjit Singh told HT.  “It is very likely that the farmers’ agitation will be called off tomorrow when a formal invitation for talks is sent to the farm body,” he added.IAF confirms the death of  CDS Bipin Rawat in IAF chopper crashWith deep regret, it has now been ascertained that Gen Bipin Rawat, Mrs Madhulika Rawat and 11 other persons on board have died in the unfortunate accident.Indian Air Force (IAF) has confirmed the death of CDS Bipin Rawat along with his wife Madhulika Rawat. Besides then, 11 others on board the chopper have died in the incident.Wing commander Prithvi Singh Chauhan was the pilot of IAF chopperWing commander Prithvi Singh Chauhan was the pilot of IAF chopper Mi-17V5 that crashed with 14 passengers, including CDS Bipin Rawat, on board near Coonoor in Tamil Nadu. He is the commanding officer of the 109 Helicopter Uni, ANI reports citing sources.Bail pleas of 2 cops held in connection to extortion case involving Param Bir Singh dismissedMumbai City Sessions Court has dismissed the bail plea applications of police officers Nandkumar Gopale and Asha Korke, who were held in connection with the extortion case involving the former Mumbai Police commissioner Param Bir Singh.Cabinet Committee on Security (CCS) to meet later todayCabinet Committee on Security (CCS) will meet at 6.30pm today, reports ANI.Olaf Scholz sworn in as Germany's new chancellorOlaf Scholz sworn in as Germany's new chancellor. He replaced Angela Merkel, thereby ending her long 16-year-old tenure.Rajnath Singh to issue statement on crash in Parliament tomorrowDefence minister Rajnath Singh to give statement on IAF chopper crash in Parliament tomorrow.Pradhan Mantri Gramin Awaas Yojna to continue till 2024Union minister Anurag Thakur said on Wednesday that the Pradhan Mantri Gramin Awaas Yojna will continue till 2024.Army chief Gen Naravane briefs Rajnath Singh on IAF chopper crashIndian Army chief General Manoj Mukund Naravane briefs defence minister Rajnath Singh on IAF chopper crash in Delhi's South Block.SKM holding meet on whether to call off agitation; describes IAF chopper crash ‘very painful incident’The Samyukta Kisan Morcha (SKM), which is holding a vital meet on whether to end agitation, offers condolences for the victims of the IAF chopper crash that was carrying CDS Bipin Rawat and his wife Madhulika Rawat, among 12 others. The farmer union describes the crash incident as a “very painful incident.”Rajnath Singh reaches the residence of CDS Bipin RawatDelhi | Defence Minister Rajnath Singh reaches the residence of CDS Bipin Rawat pic.twitter.com/05DismLAq9Defence Minister Rajnath Singh has reached the residence of CDS Bipin Rawat. The CDS along with his wife Madhulika Rawat, and other staff, was in the IAF chopper that crashed near Coonoor in Tamil Nadu.Air Force chief VR Chaudhuri on way to IAF chopper crash siteIndia's Air Chief Marshal Vivek Ram Chaudhuri is flying to the IAF chopper crash site.Tamil Nadu CM MK Stalin to visit IAF chopper crash site in NilgirisTamil Nadu chief minister MK Stalin to leave for Coimbatore at 5pm and head to the crash site in Nilgiris district.Rajnath Singh briefed PM Modi about IAF chopper crashDefence minister Rajnath Singh is monitoring the situation regarding the IAF chopper crash. He has also briefed Prime Minister Narendra Modi about the crash in which CDS Bipin Rawat and his wife Madhulika, among 12 others, were on board.Defence minister Rajnath Singh to brief Parliament on IAF chopper crashDefence minister Rajnath Singh to brief Parliament on IAF chopper crash where CDS Bipin Rawat and his wife Madhulika Rawat, among 12 others, were present.14 passengers were on board crashed IAF chopper, eight ambulances on spot for rescue operationsAs many as 14 passengers were on board the IAF chopper, including CDS Bipin Rawat and his wife Madhulika Rawat, among others, which was heading to Wellington from Sulur. A total of eight ambulances are currently on spot for rescue operations, with local police and army present as well. Those who have been rescued are being shifted to a government hospital in Coonoor.IAF confirms Bipin Rawat was onboard army chopper that crashed near Coonoor in Tamil NaduAn IAF Mi-17V5 helicopter, with CDS Gen Bipin Rawat on board, met with an accident today near Coonoor, Tamil Nadu.An Inquiry has been ordered to ascertain the cause of the accident.The CDS was accompanied by his wife Madhulika Rawat, his staff and some other officials. Here's latest report by Hindustan Times.Army chopper carrying senior defence officials crashes in Tamil NaduCDS Bipin Rawat, his staff and some family members were in the Mi-series chopper that crashed between Coimbatore and Sulur in Tamil Nadu. Search and rescue operations launched from nearby bases, news agency ANI reported qouting sources.As Omicron spreads, Europe cautioned over rising Covid-19 cases, deathsDeaths and hospitalisations from Covid-19 will continue to rise in Europe in the coming weeks as vaccination rates remain insufficient to counter the trends, a key European health agency warned Tuesday. Read MoreIn fresh letter to SKM, Centre says ready to accept all demands of farmersIn fresh letter to SKM, Centre says ready to accept all demands of farmers. Five-member SKM team currently in an informal huddle in Capital. Main discussion set to begin at 2pm on a decision whether to call off stir.SC stays proceedings in FIRs registered by Tripura police against journalistsThe Supreme Court stays proceedings arising out of FIRs registered by Tripura police against two journalists over their reports on communal violence in the state; issues notice to the police.Activities level are reaching pre-pandemic levels: RBIGlobally, economies are opening up, activities level are reaching pre-pandemic level, says Governor Shaktikanta Das. ‘Outrageous and unprecedented': Sonia Gandi on suspension of 12 Rajya Sabha MPsAt CPP meet, Sonia Gandhi terms suspension of 12 Opposition Rajya Sabha MPs as outrageous and unprecedented. She also said it violates both Constitution and rules. RBI retains GDP growth target at 9.5% in FY22The projection for real GDP growth is retained at 9.5% in 2021-22, consisting of 6.6% in Q3, and 6% in Q4. Real GDP growth is projected at 17.2% for Q1 of 2022-23 and at 7.8% for Q2 of 2022-23: RBI Governor Shaktikanta DasRBI keeps repo rate unchanged at 4%, retains accommodative policy stanceMonetary Policy Committee (MPC) voted unanimously to keep the policy repo rate at 4% and the stance remains accommodative. MSF rate and bank rate remain unchanged at 4.25%. Reverse repo rate also remains unchanged at 3.35%: RBI Governor Shaktikanta Das following MPC meetingSKM's 5-member committee to hold urgent meeting todaySamyukt Kisan Morcha's 5-member committee to hold an urgent meeting in New Delhi at 10 am today, news agency ANI reported.Encounter underway in ShopianEncounter has started at Check Cholan area of Shopian districts in Jammu and Kashmir. Further details shall follow.Pfizer shot gives less immunity to Omicron than to other strains: Early studyResearchers in South Africa have found in an early study that Pfizer's vaccine against the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) actually provides less immunity to the Omicron variant than to other major versions of the virus. Read MoreAustralia follows US in diplomatic boycott of Beijing OlympicsAustralia will not send officials to the upcoming winter Olympics in Beijing, Prime Minister Scott Morrison said Wednesday, joining a US diplomatic boycott of the event. Read More||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/breaking-news-live-december-8-2021-101638924338185.html
