10-12-2021||India||CDS chopper crash: Tearful farewell to India’s fallen heroes||India’s first chief of defence staff (CDS) General Bipin Rawat, his wife Madhulika Raje Singh Rawat, and the CDS’s defence assistant Brigadier LS Lidder were on Friday cremated with military honours at Brar Square in Delhi Cantt in two separate solemn ceremonies steeped in military tradition, with top government officials attending the heart-wrenching final send-off, and thousands of men, women and children lining the road leading to the crematorium to pay their last respects with slogans of glory to the departed.Three grieving daughters performed the last rites.While Kritika and Tarini lit the funeral pyre of their parents, Bipin and Madhulika, 16-year-old Aashna performed the last rites of her father Lakhbinder Singh Lidder in ceremonies filled with emotion and pride.“We will carry on with the good memories of my father. I am happy he didn’t have to suffer. My dad was a hero,” Aashna later said.The Rawats and Lidder were among the 13 people killed in a horrific Mi-17V5 helicopter crash near Coonoor in Tamil Nadu.Lidder’s last rites were conducted in the morning and attended by defence minister Rajnath Singh, national security adviser Ajit Doval, Haryana chief minister Manohar Lal Khattar, and India’s top military leadership. At one point, the Brigadier’s wife Geetika and daughter Aashna sat next to his coffin and kissed it -- the moving images broadcast live on television and watched by millions of Indians who mourned along with the Lidders.The mortal remains of the Rawats lay in state for public viewing and for dignitaries to pay their last respects at the CDS’s official residence on Kamraj Road. Those who paid respects at the residence included home minister Amit Shah, a few of his colleagues, national security adviser Ajit Doval, Congress leader Rahul Gandhi, and a battery of top government and military officials.The funeral procession started from Kamraj Road at 2pm and reached Brar Square at 3.30pm, covering the 10km route in full 90 minutes, allowing people to pay homage along the way. Ninety-nine personnel from the army, navy and air force and 33 members of the tri-services band formed the front escort, while 99 personnel acted as the rear escort of the procession, officials said.Rawat was accorded a 17-gun salute at the funeral attended by the defence minister Rajnath Singh, law minister Kiren Rijiju, Delhi chief minister Arvind Kejriwal, the three service chiefs, Defence Research and Development Organisation chief G Satheesh Reddy, several former service chiefs, top officials of a few friendly foreign armies, diplomats and a slew of other dignitaries.Top officials of the militaries of Sri Lanka, Bangladesh, Nepal and Bhutan attended the last rites. Over 800 serving military personnel attended the funeral, the officials said.“Paid my last respects to General Bipin Rawat and his wife, Mrs Madhulika Rawat. General Rawat devoted his life to serving and protecting our nation. India will remember his courage, valour and patriotism. Farewell General,” Rajnath Singh wrote on Twitter.Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Thursday paid his last respects to the 13 people killed in the crash, after an Indian Air Force C-130J special operations aircraft flew their mortal remains from Sulur to the Palam air base in Delhi.The schedule for the last rites of the remaining people has not been finalised yet as the “process for positive identification of remaining mortal remains is still on.” Their mortal remains have been kept at the mortuary of Army Base Hospital till the identities of the bodies are confirmed.The Coonoor crash was of one of the worst air accidents involving India’s top military brass and a setback to the ongoing military reforms in the country, the biggest since Independence. Rawat was spearheading the military’s theaterisation drive to enhance the effectiveness of the armed forces and reshape the conduct of future operations. He took over as CDS on December 31, 2019, after serving as army chief for a full three-year term. He held the four-star rank for almost five years.The CDS’s shocking demise will have implications for the ongoing military reforms, including theaterisation, and the government will have to move swiftly to announce a succession plan. Rawat survived a Cheetah crash in Dimapur in February 3, 2015. He was a lieutenant general at that time.Out of the total 14 persons on board the helicopter, 13 were killed. The other deceased are Lieutenant Colonel Harjinder Singh, Wing Commander Prithvi Singh Chauhan (pilot), Squadron Leader Kuldeep Singh (co-pilot), Junior Warrant Officers Rana Pratap Das and Arakkal Pradeep, Havildar Satpal Rai, Naik Gursewak Singh, Naik Jitendra Kumar, Lance Naik Vivek Kumar and Lance Naik B Sai Teja.The sole survivor, Group Captain Varun Singh, is on life support at the IAF Command Hospital in Bengaluru. A top three-star officer is heading the inquiry into the crash. Rawat was on a visit to the prestigious Defence Services Staff College (DSSC) at Wellington to address the faculty and student officers there.The defence advisor and the naval advisor posted at the Pakistan High Commission also paid their last respects to Rawat and his wife at the CDS’s official residence, according to the high commission officials.
10-12-2021||India||India’s Omicron tally 32; symptoms mild, says govt||India’s tally of the Omicron variant of Sars-Cov-2 touched 32 as nine new infections were reported in the country on Friday, but so far all of them have exhibited mild symptoms, senior health ministry officials said, adding that there was no immediate plan to authorise vaccine boosters.On Friday, seven new cases of the heavily mutated variant were detected in Maharashtra and two more in Gujarat, local officials said. For the past three days, there had been no new case of the variant in the country.“All Omicron positive cases have so far had mild symptoms,” said Lav Agarwal, joint secretary, Union ministry of health said, adding that close to 70 clusters are currently under investigation across India. Agarwal, who was addressing a media briefing early on Friday, said that till then there had been 25 cases of the variant in the country.The new cases from Maharashtra were reported hours after the health ministry briefing.Infections have now been reported in four states and one Union Territory – 17 in Maharashtra, nine in Rajasthan, three in Gujarat, two in Karnataka, and one in Delhi.Officials, however, reiterated that the government’s focus remains on ensuring primary vaccination, and there was no recommendation yet from the National Technical Advisory Group on Immunisation (NTAGI) on the booster doses.“We are keeping an eye on global scientific studies. There is no stand of the World Health Organization (WHO) on booster doses... But WHO has clearly highlighted the need for completing primary vaccination as the most important priority and our view is also aligned with this. We have to first complete the task of vaccinating all individual with both doses,” said VK Paul, member (health), Niti Aayog.When asked about vaccines for children, Paul said, “The team has been examining information coming from several sources in this regard... We do not have any recommendations on paediatric vaccination from them (NTAGI) as yet. They are examining it and other facets of vaccines.”Paediatric vaccination is yet to begin in India, even though on August 20, the Drugs Controller General of India granted emergency use authorization to Zydus’ vaccine, ZyCoV-D. The vaccine has been tested, and approved for restricted use, in anyone aged 12 years and above.Globally, at least 50 countries have begun giving doses to children. In most cases, children above the age of 12 are being inoculated. The shots being used for these ages are typically the Pfizer-BioNTech and Moderna doses – both have shown to be safe in children and their efficacy has been established.The officials stressed that public adherence to Covid-appropriate behaviour, along with vaccination, remains the biggest weapons in the country’s arsenal against the viral outbreak.“We have to remember that both vaccines and masks are important,” Paul emphasised.“WHO recently pointed that public health and social measures compliance is declining with increase in vaccination rates. There is no need to panic, rather adherence to Covid appropriate behaviour is a must even for the fully vaccinated persons,” said Agarwal. “WHO has also shown that laxity in public health measures is leading to a surge in overall cases,” he added.Head of the Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR) said that, clinically, the variant, which was detected in India on December 2 after being first identified in South Africa on November 8, does not pose a serious threat for now.“Clinically, Omicron as yet is not posing a burden on health care system; however, vigil has to be maintained. Regular meetings are being organised to examine and keep a watch on the global scenario; and regulator meetings are being held to examine the Covid scene in India, with focus on Omicron,” said Balram Bhargava, director general, ICMR.Much remains unknown about Omicron. After being detected in early November, it was labelled as a variant of concern (VOC) by WHO on November 26. Dozens of countries have imposed travel restrictions on southern African nations since it was discovered.Officials also said that at least 70 clusters are under close watch for Omicron across India.“We are watching and investigating more than 70 such clusters, even though by and large it looks like the Delta variant is in circulation there. But we have to be careful and vaccination is the key to reduce risk of severe disease. Extremely crucial to take both the doses along with adhering to Covid-appropriate behaviour,” Bhargava added.On November 27, a day after the declaration of Omicron as a VOC by WHO, states across were advised to increase surveillance at airports, increase testing and continue monitoring hot spots, Agarwal said. The aggressive screening of international passengers, especially from ‘at-risk’ countries was made effective from December 1 with 58,469 passengers arriving in India from 298 international flights from ‘at risk’ countries being tested on arrival, of which 83 tested positive for Covid-19.As on date, 2,936 Omicron cases have been detected from 59 countries, with 78,064 Covid positive cases being under investigation. The most Omicron cases have been reported from the United Kingdom, Denmark and South Africa.Union health ministry is also conducting meetings with all states and senior people involved in pandemic management on a daily basis to ensure all measures are put in place appropriately to prevent and stop the spread of the disease, especially with the new variant that suspected to be highly transmissible.According to experts it is important keep the testing momentum up to ensure the disease does not spread aggressively. “5% and above test positivity means that disease is in circulation and testing and isolating positive case early is the only way to stop the disease from spreading within the community,” said Jacob John, former virology head, Christian Medical College, Vellore (Tamil Nadu).
10-12-2021||India||Democracy lives with and within the people: Modi||Democracies must work together to forge global norms for emerging technologies such as social media and cryptocurrencies so that they cannot be used to undermine democracy, Prime Minister Narendra Modi said on Friday.Delivering India’s national statement at the Summit for Democracy hosted by US President Joe Biden, Modi offered to share with the world India’s expertise in holding free and fair elections and transparent governance through digital solutions.During his address, Modi sought to build on US president Abraham Lincoln’s description of democracy in the legendary Gettysburg Address of 1863 – government of the people, by the people, for the people – by adding the concept of “with the people, within the people”.Biden convened the virtual summit of government and civil society leaders on December 9 and 10 to focus on challenges confronting democratic nations and on reforms and initiatives to defend democracy and human rights around the world.Modi noted that the second day of the summit, which featured interventions by leaders from around the world, provided a platform for furthering cooperation among democracies, and said: “We must also jointly shape global norms for emerging technologies such as social media and cryptocurrencies, so that they are used to empower democracy, not to undermine it.”He added, “India would be happy to share its expertise in holding free and fair elections, and in enhancing transparency in all areas of governance through innovative digital solutions.”Modi also raised the role of technology companies in democratic societies at a closed-door plenary session hosted by Biden on Thursday. He was among leaders of 12 countries that joined the session. Modi said that in view of technology’s ability to impact democracy positively or negatively, technology companies should contribute to preserving open and democratic societies.The Indian government has focused on the regulation of international technology and social media companies and personal data protection in recent years. The government also plans to introduce legislation to ban private cryptocurrencies and create a framework for an official digital currency.While delivering the national statement on Friday, Modi said multi-party elections, independent judiciary and a free media are “important instruments” of democracy. He added, “However, the basic strength of democracy is the spirit and ethos that lie within our citizens and our societies. Democracy is not only of the people, by the people, for the people but also with the people, within the people.”He pointed out that different parts of the world had followed “different paths of democratic development” and there is much to learn from each other.“We all need to constantly improve our democratic practices and systems. And we all need to continuously enhance inclusion, transparency, human dignity, responsive grievance redressal and decentralisation of power,” he said.Modi said he was proud to represent the world’s largest democracy at the summit, and that democratic spirit is integral to India’s civilisational ethos.He pointed to democratic practices that existed in India’s past, and said: “Elected republican city-states such as Lichhavi and Shakya flourished in India as far as 2,500 years back. The same democratic spirit is seen in the 10th century ‘Uttaramerur’ inscription that codified the principles of democratic participation.”This democratic spirit made ancient India prosperous and centuries of colonial rule could not suppress the people’s democratic spirit. “It again found full expression with India’s independence, and led to an unparalleled story in democratic nation-building over the last 75 years,” he added.India’s development as a democracy, Modi said, was a story of “unprecedented socio-economic inclusion in all spheres” and of “constant improvements in health, education, and human well-being at an unimaginable scale”. He added: “The India story has one clear message to the world. That democracy can deliver, that democracy has delivered, and that democracy will continue to deliver.”By working together, democracies can meet aspirations of citizens and celebrate the democratic spirit of humanity. “India stands ready to join fellow democracies in this noble endeavour,” Modi said.While India has commended the US for convening the Summit for Democracy, Pakistan Prime Minister Imran Khan decided to skip the event – a move widely seen as a gesture of solidarity with his country’s “all-weather ally” China, which has repeatedly taken pot shots at the US over democratic values in the past few days.Biden pointed to challenges faced by democracy worldwide in his opening remarks on Thursday. He also announced the Presidential Initiative for Democratic Renewal, for which the US will provide $424.4 million in 2022.
10-12-2021||India||‘Vindictive,’ cries TMC as Centre bars Mamata Banerjee from visiting Nepal||The Union ministry of external affairs has barred West Bengal chief minister Mamata Banerjee from visiting Nepal on Saturday, the Trinamool Congress has alleged. Banerjee was invited to a seminar in Kathmandu by the Nepali Congress Party and she agreed to attend it, TMC leaders said. “This shows how vindictive the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) has become after its defeat in the March-April assembly polls and the subsequent by-polls. They are jealous of Mamata Banerjee’s popularity,” said Bengal minister Tapas Roy. Though Indian nationals do not require passports or travel permits to visit Nepal, Banerjee, being a chief minister, had to follow standard protocol and seek the Centre’s clearance before going to a foreign country, said a TMC leader who did not want to be identified. “The MEA sent her a note, asking why a political party from another country invited a chief minister of an Indian state to a seminar?” the TMC leader said. Bengal BJP’s chief spokesperson Samik Bhattacharya said he had no information about the Centre’s decision. “I am a BJP worker from Bengal. How can I know what the ministry of external affairs is doing?” he said on Friday evening. This is not the first time that the Centre has refused to allow Banerjee to attend programmes on foreign soil. In October, she was not allowed to attend a peace summit in Rome. In 2018, she was denied permission to visit the USA for a programme held to commemorate the 125th anniversary of Swami Vivekananda’s historic speech in Chicago. The TMC and Banerjee reacted on both occasions and accused the BJP-led government of misusing powers for political reasons.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/vindictive-cries-tmc-as-centre-bars-mamata-banerjee-from-visiting-nepal-101639159824014.html
10-12-2021||India||Courts cannot become adventurous and supplant authorities, says SC||Courts cannot become adventurous and pass orders supplanting existing authorities, said the Supreme Court on Friday as it set aside a direction passed by the Madhya Pradesh high court appointing lawyers and judges to conduct inspection of nursing colleges in six districts in the state.“This creates a very inconvenient situation if lawyers and district judges conduct inspection of nursing colleges,” said a bench of Justices UU Lalit and S Ravindra Bhat while dealing with a petition filed by the Private Nursing College Association of Madhya Pradesh.The association had approached the top court against an August 18 order passed by the Gwalior bench of the high court directing inspection of nearly 271 private nursing colleges situated in Gwalior, Morena, Shivpuri, Datia, Bhind, and Sheopur districts. The direction of the HC came on a PIL filed by one Hariom who alleged irregularities in private nursing colleges which did not indicate how many beds they had to treat patients during the second wave of the Covid-19 pandemic.For Gwalior, the inspection commission comprised a judicial officer and two lawyers of the MP high court, while for the remaining five districts, the inspection committee had a district judge and Collector or their nominees. The committees were supposed to conduct surprise physical inspections at these colleges and submit report on the infrastructure and other requisites at these institutions.Setting aside the direction of the HC, the top court said, “We deem it appropriate to set aside the direction and request the high court to consider the matter afresh and appoint such committee which is in conformity with the Madhya Pradesh Nursing Shikshan Sansthan Manyata Niyam 2018.The association represented by advocate Rahul Kaushik submitted that the inspection of the nursing colleges was conducted annually by the MP nursing council by a team comprising a senior doctor from the government medical college and principal of a government nursing college. He further stated that the HC order was contrary to the 2018 rules and allowed lawyers and judges to conduct inspection, when they had no technical background or expertise in the field associated with nursing colleges.The bench said, “Courts cannot become adventurous like this and supplant existing authority. Covid gripped the nation in April-May while this order was passed in August when the impact of the pandemic had dissipated. We will ask the high court to decide the matter in a manner known to law.”The petitioner was represented by advocate Puneet Jain who said that he had no difficulty if lawyers and judges are not made part of the team. However, he stated that an inspection was necessary to verify the claims of the association that they have requisite beds to treat patients and impart training.The MP nursing registration council had filed an affidavit, both in the high court and Supreme Court, clarifying that the power of inspection rests with the council. During the inspection of the 271 colleges in question, the council submitted that all of them had the necessary prerequisites for recognition and were rightly given recognition.The bench recorded in its order the assurance given by the association that all help shall be extended to the committee conducting inspection pursuant to high court’s order to ensure it is completed within the shortest possible time.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/courts-cannot-become-adventurous-and-supplant-authorities-says-sc-101639157484213.html
10-12-2021||India||Calcutta HC reserves order on BJP’s plea for single-phase civic polls in Bengal||The Calcutta high court division bench of Chief Justice Prakash Shrivastava and Justice Rajarshi Bhardwaj on Friday reserved judgment on the Bharatiya Janata Party’s (BJP) petition seeking elections in West Bengal’s 120-odd municipal corporations and municipalities on a single day. The bench will pass its order on Monday. The petition has been filed by BJP state vice-president Pratap Banerjee. During the last hearing on December 6, the West Bengal state election commission (SEC) told the bench that it wants to hold the elections in six to eight phases by May next year. During a long hearing on Friday, Advocate General S N Mookherjee, who represented the state government, said the Kolkata Municipal Corporation (KMC) polls will be held on December 19 because of the better vaccination status of Kolkata residents and healthcare facilities available in the city. He cited logistical problems and the Covid-19 pandemic as reasons for postponing the polls in the remaining 22 districts. Advocate Pinky Anand, who represented the petitioner, countered the SEC’s argument that elections in the districts are being postponed because of the new threat posed by the Omicron variant of the coronavirus. She argued that people of Kolkata, who will cast their votes in less than 10 days, are not immune to it. Stating that polls in all civic bodies of Bengal were held simultaneously in 2015, Anand told the bench that electronic voting machines (EVM) containing voter verified paper audit trail (VVPAT) are mandatory but these will not be used in the KMC election according to the affidavit earlier filed by the SEC. Senior advocate Jayanta Mitra, who represented the SEC, countered Anand. He said the situation in 2015 was quite different. He told the bench that the SEC informed the Election Commission of India (ECI) about shortage of EVMs in the state but the ECI told the SEC that it had already loaned all EVMs in its stock to Bengal. Mitra also told the court that EVMs given to the state for the municipal polls do not have the provision for VVPAT. Mitra informed the bench that EVMs with VVPAT are used only in assembly and Lok Sabha polls. States such as Madhya Pradesh and Maharashtra do not use EVMs with VVPAT in municipal polls, Mitra said. The court wanted to know when the SEC will submit its plans for polls in the rest of the civic bodies. Mitra told the court that the schedule will be decided after the KMC elections on December 19.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/calcutta-hc-reserves-order-on-bjp-s-plea-for-single-phase-civic-polls-in-bengal-101639155263058.html
10-12-2021||India||Who is Aashna Lidder, the daughter of Brigadier Lidder killed in chopper crash?||The daughter of Brigadier Lakhwinder Singh Lidder Aashna Lidder on Friday performed the last rites of Brigadier Lakhwinder Singh Lidder, who was the defence advisor to CDS General Bipin Rawat and was travelling with him on the helicopter that crashed in Tamil Nadu on Wednesday. As her fond yet brave remembrance of her father as her hero, her best friend won thousands of hearts, she was reportedly criticised on Twitter apparently for her ideology expressed in past. On Friday evening, as her Twitter account was not found, several political leaders including Congress' Karti Chidambaram, Shiv Sena's Priyanka Chaturvedi hit out at the ‘trolls’ and extended their support to Aashna."17 year old, grieving yet holding strong, has just cremated her father, a decorated army officer, is being trolled for her views, they want to moderate her woke-ism, military train compulsorily, want her to be corrected. In the process got her to delete her account. How low will you go?" Priyanka Chaturvedi tweeted.Must give him a smiling send-off: Brigadier Lakhbinder Singh Lidder’s wife 17 year old,grieving yet holding strong,has just cremated her father,a decorated army officer,is being trolled for her views,they want to moderate her woke-ism,military train compulsorily,want her to be corrected. In the process got her to delete her account. How low will you go?"Shame on the faux “patriots & nationalists” who have hounded a young educated & thinking girl off Twitter," Karti Chidambaram wrote.
10-12-2021||India||Condition of Grp Capt Varun Singh critical but stable: Report||The condition of Group Captain Varun Singh, the lone survivor of the IAF chopper crash, is critical but stable, officials said on Friday.He is undergoing treatment at the Command Hospital in Bengaluru.Group Captain Singh's condition is critical but stable, the officials said.On Thursday, he was shifted to the Command Hospital in Bengaluru from Wellington in Tamil Nadu, officials said.The Group Captain was admitted to a hospital in Wellington with severe burn injuries following the Wednesday crash.He was initially moved to Sulur in an ambulance by road and then was flown to Bengaluru for better treatment.Chief of Defence Staff Gen Bipin Rawat, his wife Madhulika and 11 armed forces personnel were killed in the Mi-17V5 helicopter crash near Coonoor on Wednesday.Group Captain Singh, a decorated officer, was on board the Russian-made chopper as the liaison officer for the visit of Gen Rawat, India's senior-most military officer, to the Defence Services Staff College in Wellington.He was conferred with the Shaurya Chakra in August for averting a possible nid-air accident after his Tejas light combat aircraft was hit by a major technical last year.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/condition-of-grp-capt-varun-singh-critical-but-stable-report-101639153176393.html
10-12-2021||India||Yogi Adityanath meets IAF officer’s kin in Agra, promises aid of ₹50 lakh||Uttar Pradesh chief minister Yogi Adityanath on Friday announced financial aid of ₹50 lakh for the next of kin and a government job for a family member of Wing Commander Prithvi Singh Chauhan, who was the pilot of the IAF chopper that crashed in Tamil Nadu’s Coonoor on Wednesday.Thirteen people, including Chief of Defence Staff General Bipin Rawat and his wife Madhulika Rawat along with other defence personnel were killed in the horrific crash on December 8.The UP chief minister made the announcement after he met the family members of the Indian Air Force (IAF) officer in Saran Nagar locality of Agra and paid floral tribute to his portrait.Yogi Adityanath also gave the assurance that an institution would be named after Wing Commander Chauhan.The chief minister interacted with the father, sisters and other family members of the Wing Commander and consoled them.“I met the family members of Wing Commander Prithvi Singh Chauhan who was killed along with the Chief of Defence Staff (CDS) of the nation General Bipin Rawat, in the chopper crash in Tamil Nadu on December 8. I am here to express my sincere condolences towards the family,” the chief minister said after meeting the family members. “The whole nation is pained by the huge loss and stands with the families of the defence personnel who died in the tragedy. I was in Delhi today and paid my tributes to General Bipin Rawat and his wife Madhulika Rawat and reached Agra later in the day to meet the family members of Wing Commander Chauhan,” Yogi Adityanath added.“The UP government will give financial assistance of ₹50 lakh to the family of Prithvi Singh Chauhan, besides a government job to one family member. An institution will also be named after him. The state government, the public representatives and Agra administration all stand with the family in their grief. The cremation of Wing Commander Prithvi Singh Chauhan will be conducted with full state honours in Agra,” he further said.“We also pray for the speedy recovery of lone survivor Group Captain Varun Singh, also from Uttar Pradesh,” he said.The chief minister’s convoy reached New Agra area at 3.30 pm on Friday and he walked through the lane to reach the house of the IAF officer.The chief minister reached Agra after flying in from Delhi. Police personnel were deployed and traffic was regulated on the Dayalbagh Road adjoining the Saran Nagar locality. Earlier in the day, Congress leaders, including former Union minister of state Bhanwar Jitendra Singh and Rajya Sabha member Deepender Hooda, reached the house of the IAF officer, met his father and offered their condolences.
10-12-2021||India||Worried about your child’s gaming addiction? Here is what govt says you can do||The education ministry on Friday shared advisories for parents and teachers with respect to online gaming and the threats it can pose towards children if they are not monitored. The comprehensive set of advisories by the ministry of education aims to ensure that children understand the concept of in-game purchases, learn to protect their identities online and also understand the addictive nature of gaming from a young age.The education ministry asked the parents and teachers to ensure that children should overcome all online gaming downsides with the associated mental and physical stress to children.“Playing games leads to a serious gaming addiction which has been considered as a gaming disorder. The game is designed in a way that each level is more complicated and complex than the previous one. This causes a player to push themselves to the limit in order to progress in the game,” the ministry said in a release. “Therefore, playing online games with no restriction and self-limits leads many players to become addicted and are eventually diagnosed with gaming disorder. The gaming companies also emotionally compel the child to buy more levels and almost force in-app purchases,” it further added.Here are the dos and don’ts shared by the Union ministry for education:Don’ts -Dos -||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/worried-about-your-child-s-gaming-addiction-here-is-what-govt-says-you-can-do-101639151162383.html
10-12-2021||India||On Manipur visit, Conrad Sangma vows to continue fight to repeal AFSPA||Meghalaya Chief Minister Conrad K Sangma on Friday said the Armed Forces (Special Powers) Act (AFSPA) has not been able to resolve the issue of insurgency in the Northeast and promised that his party would continue to fight to ensure that the draconian law is repealed.Sangma, who is the national president of the National People’s Party (NPP), was speaking at the day-long Youth Conclave organized by the National People’s Youth Front (NPYF) with the theme ‘Our future in our hands’. The conclave was held at Patsoi in Manipur’s Imphal West district.“We’ve got to realize that by using force, we cannot achieve our goal. We need to look into security aspects also. But, AFSPA is not the solution to the problem,” he said. “It is only through socio-economic measures, that we’ll be able to find the ultimate solution. By using the Armed Forces, we’re once again damaging our youth,” he said “Therefore in this conference we need to realize that this kind of politics, these kinds of laws make things worse.”The Armed Forces (Special Powers) Act, 1958 which gives power to the Indian Army and Central forces deployed in “disturbed areas”’, is in force in Nagaland, Assam, Manipur (excluding seven assembly constituencies in Imphal) and parts of Arunachal Pradesh. It was withdrawn from Meghalaya in 2018.On the issue of unemployment, Sangma said, the NPP feels that every young man must be given skill sets apart from education and the youth’s energy should be tapped.So until we can create a business environment, we will not be able to resolve the issue of unemployment in the region as the government has a limited role in terms of giving jobs, he said.On climate change, he urged the volunteers of NPYF to play a key role in combating climate change in the North eastern region.Manipur deputy chief minister Yumnam Joykumar, former minister L Jayantakumar, NPP Manipur unit president N Kayisii, president of the Arunachal chapter of the NPP Mutchu Mithi were also present during the day-long Youth Conclave. The NPP, which has four legislators in the 60 member Manipur assembly, is a key ally of the BJP-led government in the border state.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/on-manipur-visit-conrad-sangma-vows-to-continue-fight-to-repeal-afspa-101639151061675.html
10-12-2021||India||News updates from HT: Chabahar port economical for landlocked nations, says EAM and all the latest news||Here are today’s top news, analysis, and opinion. Know all about the latest news and other news updates from Hindustan Times.Transit hub and stable route to reach India: Jaishankar on Iran’s Chabahar portChabahar port facilitated the delivery of humanitarian assistance, especially during the Covid-19 pandemic, and India used it to ship 75,000 tons of wheat as food assistance to Afghanistan in 2020. Read more here. 'Mahua, let me give you a message': As Mamata rebukes, Mahua Moitra nodsThe video of the administrative meeting where Mamata took Mahua Moitra's name and apparently admonished the Lok Sabha MP as Moitra nodded has gone viral. Read more here.Moto G51 5G vs Redmi Note 11T 5G: First impressions comparisonWe take a look at both of these phones based on our first impressions and specifications. Read more here. Dilip Vengsarkar addresses Rohit replacing Kohli as ODI captain; whether split captaincy will work in Indian cricketFormer India captain and ex-BCCI chairman of selectors Dilip Vengsarkar gave his opinion on split captaincy in Indian cricket. Read more here. West Side Story review: Steven Spielberg’s adaptation of classic musical is conservative, with some bright spotsWest Side Story review: Steven Spielberg’s adaptation of the musical stars Ansel Elgort and Rachel Zegler as Tony and Maria. Read more here. Watch: Terrorists' strike again in Kashmir after brief lull, target J&K police in Bandipora; 2 killed||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/news-updates-from-ht-chabahar-port-economical-for-landlocked-nations-says-eam-and-all-the-latest-news-101639149751899.html
10-12-2021||India||Cremated on same pyre, ashes of Gen Rawat, wife Madhulika to be taken to Haridwar tomorrow||The ashes of Chief of Defence Staff General Bipin Rawat and his wife Madhulika Rawat will be taken to Haridwar on Saturday where the ashes will be immersed in the holy Ganga and some rituals will be performed, Gen Rawat's brother-in-law Yashwardhan Singh said. Both General Rawat and Madhulika Rawat were cremated on a common pyre at Brar Square on Friday."We will pick the ashes early morning tomorrow in a 'kalash' and then head to Haridwar, where the ashes will be immersed in the holy Ganga and some rituals will be performed," Madhulika Rawat's brother said.CDS Bipin Rawat cremated with full military honours, daughters perform last ritesTwo days after their death in the tragic helicopter crash in Tamil Nadu in which 11 other defence personnel were killed, the mortal remains of General Rawat and Madhukia Rawat were cremated on Friday at the Brar Square crematorium in Delhi Cantonment. On Friday morning, the bodies were kept at their residence for people to pay their last respects. Chief Justice of India N V Ramana, Union home minister Amit Shah, National Security Advisor Ajit Doval, Congress leader Rahul Gandhi, Uttar Pradesh chief minister Yogi Adityanath, former defence minister AK Antony, a number of Union ministers and senior leaders of political parties, religious gurus, seers and several lawmakers and top commanders of neighbouring Bangladesh, Bhutan, Nepal, Sri Lanka paid their last respects to India's first Chief of Defence Staff and his wife at their Kamraj Marg bungalow.Watch: 'A hero, my best friend': Brig Lidder's daughter on bidding him last farewell | Chopper crashKritika Rawat, Tarini Rawat: Know all about CDS Bipin Rawat's daughters, family"I had spoken to him before he went to Tamil Nadu to attend the function at Wellington. Had never thought, fate would take him away from us. We will be taking his ashes to Haridwar tomorrow. We family members will be going to the holy town to immerse his 'asthi' (ashes) into the Ganga river," the younger brother of Gen Rawat, Col Vijay Rawat (retired) said before the final procession began around 2.20pm.The last rites were performed by Gen Bipin Rawat and Madhulika Rawat's daughters Kiritika and Tarini. A priest chanted Sanskrit shlokas and a 17-gun salute was accorded to the general in accordance with protocol at the Brar Square crematorium.(With PTI inputs)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/cremated-on-same-pyre-ashes-of-gen-rawat-wife-madhulika-to-be-taken-to-haridwar-tomorrow-101639150137882.html
10-12-2021||India||UP CM Yogi announces ₹50 lakh aid to IAF Wing Cdr Prithvi Chauhan's family||Uttar Pradesh chief minister Yogi Adityanath on Friday announced ₹50 lakh aid for the Agra-based family of Wing Commander Prithvi Singh Chauhan (42), who was killed after the Mi17V5 chopper of the Indian Air Force (IAF) crashed near Coonoor in Tamil Nadu on Wednesday. Prithvi was the pilot of the ill-fated helicopter.Adityanath said that a state government job would be provided to a family member of Prithvi, and an institution in Uttar Pradesh will also be named after him.“His last rites will be done in Agra with state honours,” Adityanath told news agency ANI, adding that he also prays for the recovery of Group Captain Varun Singh who is the lone survivor of the chopper crash.Also Read | Bommai says sole survivor of crash Group Captain Varun Singh getting ‘best medical treatment’Prithvi was supposed to go home in Agra in January, his father Surendra Singh aged 74 said on Thursday. Remembering his only son as a caring child, Singh said he spoke with Prithvi a few days before regarding an appointment in the military hospital for the Wing Commander's mother for her eye issues.Prithvi's family learnt about his untimely demise via news channels, Singh told news agency PTI. The Wing Commander's eldest sister saw the news on television and called her brother, but the phone was turned off. She then rang up Prithvi's wife Kamini, who confirmed the unfortunate news.Prithvi's family was originally based in Madhya Pradesh where he attended the Sainik School in Rewa and got selected at the National Defence Academy (NDA). In 2006, the family moved to Agra where Singh started a bakery business, according to a PTI report.At the time of death, Prithvi was posted at the IAF station in Coimbatore, Tamil Nadu. He has been survived by his wife Kamini (40), daughter (12), and son (7).Union defence minister Rajnath Singh said on Thursday that the Centre has ordered a tri-service inquiry into the crash in which the first Chief of Defence Staff (CDS) General Bipin Rawat, his wife Madhulika Rawat, and 11 other Armed Forces personnel, including Prithvi, were killed.Also Read | CDS Rawat cremated with full military honours, daughters perform last ritesThe IAF on Friday said that “uninformed speculation” over the helicopter crash may be avoided till the probe report arrives in order to “respect the dignity of the deceased.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/up-cm-yogi-announces-rs-50-lakh-aid-to-iaf-wing-cdr-prithvi-chauhan-s-family-101639143854687.html
10-12-2021||India||Explained: What the House panel and stakeholders say about NCERT textbooks||The parliamentary panel on education submitted its report titled Reforms in content and design of school textbooks in the upper house recently, saying textbooks prepared by the National Council of Educational Research and Training (NCERT) incorrectly portrayed historical figures and freedom fighters as “offenders”, had “unequal” mention of various periods and dynasties, and underrepresented women.
10-12-2021||India||716,662 Indian workers returned from Gulf during pandemic, many have gone back:Jaishankar||An estimated 716,662 Indian workers returned from six West Asian countries amid the Covid-19 pandemic and many of them have gone back once again following the economic recovery in that region and easing of travel restrictions. According to estimates provided by external affairs minister S Jaishankar in a written reply to a question in the Lok Sabha, 330,058 Indian workers returned from the United Arab Emirates (UAE) and 137,900 more from Saudi Arabia. An estimated 97,802 workers returned from Kuwait, 72,259 from Oman, 51,190 from Qatar, and 27,453 from Bahrain. “While a large number of Indian workers in the Gulf returned to India as a result of the impact of Covid-19, the economic recovery in that region and their increasing openness to travel from India has now seen a return by many of them,” Jaishankar said in response to a question from MP Abdul Majeed Ariff of the CPI-M. The West Asian region is home to some nine million Indian expatriates, with the largest numbers in the UAE and Saudi Arabia. Amid the pandemic, Jaishankar said, the government’s priority was ensuring that the impact of the crisis on Indian workers, in terms of loss of employment, was mitigated. The external affairs ministry and missions in the Gulf engaged with governments in the region to maintain the workers ensure their welfare and facilitate financial payments due to them, he said. “As the pandemic has receded in recent months, this focus has shifted to pressing for return of workers and families on an expeditious basis. To that end, all Gulf nations were pressed to establish air bubbles and ease visa, travel and health restrictions,” he said. “All countries in the Gulf have responded favourably to these efforts by the government, as a result of which, there has been a steady flow of returnees back to the Gulf. Government will continue to make this its priority in engagement with the Gulf nations,” he added. Jaishankar said Indian missions in West Asian countries are continuing to pursue with governments of host countries the return of Indian workers, realisation of payments due to them, new recruitment in light of economic recovery and other welfare measures. The government launched a programme in January to upskill Indian blue collar workers in the UAE to enhance their employability and wages. During the pandemic, Indian missions in the region extended support to Indians by using the Indian Community Welfare Fund and by coordinating with community associations. This support included expenses related to lodging, air fares and emergency medical care. 
10-12-2021||India||Omicron cases in Maharashtra rise to 17 as Mumbai, Pune report fresh infections||The total cases of Omicron variant in Maharashtra rose to 17 after Mumbai and Pune reported seven fresh confirmed infections on Friday, the state health department said. While the Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation recorded three Omicron cases in Mumbai, four cases were reported from Pune’s Pimpri-Chinchwad area. The three Omicron patients in Mumbai have recent travel history of Tanzania, South Africa and the United Kingdom.The health department said that the four Omicron patients from Pimpri-Chinchwad were contacts of a Nigerian woman who had tested positive for the new variant of concern recently.Out of the seven Omicron patients, four have received both doses of the Covid-19 vaccine while one has been administered with a single shot. One patient identified in Mumbai’s Dharavi area is unvaccinated and another is a three and half year old kid, thus ineligible for vaccination, according to the health department. Four of them are asymptomatic and three are having mild symptoms.Earlier today, the BMC said that the patient who had returned from Tanzania was asymptomatic and was admitted to Seven Hills Hospital in Mumbai. The patient, aged 48 and male, was not vaccinated against Covid-19. The Omicron patient who arrived from London last week is a 25-year-old male and the South Africa returnee is a 37-year-old male and a resident of Gujarat. Both of them are vaccinated against the virus.The update comes amid the Centre’s warning over the decline in usage of face masks across the country amid the emergence of the Omicron variant. Dr VK Paul, member (health), NITI Aayog, told a regular press briefing that people are operating at a “risky and unacceptable” level, stressing that both masks and vaccines are important for protection against coronavirus disease (Covid-19).“Mask usage is declining in India. We have to remember that both vaccines and masks are important. As far as protection capability is concerned, we are now operating at a risky and unacceptable level. We should learn from the global situation,” Paul said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/omicron-cases-in-maharashtra-rise-to-17-as-mumbai-pune-report-fresh-infections-101639147531379.html
10-12-2021||India||Transit hub and stable route to reach India: Jaishankar on Iran’s Chabahar port||Iran’s Chabahar port has emerged as a commercial transit hub for the region and is a “more economical and stable route” for landlocked countries to reach India and the global market, external affairs minister S Jaishankar said on Friday. Jaishankar’s remarks in a written reply to a question in the Lok Sabha indicated India’s continuing commitment to the port on the Gulf of Oman despite speculation about its viability following the takeover of Afghanistan by the Taliban in mid-August. “The Chabahar port has provided much needed sea-access to landlocked Afghanistan. The port has also emerged as a commercial transit hub for the region. It is a more economical and stable route for landlocked countries of the region to reach India and the global market,” he said in the reply. Chabahar port facilitated the delivery of humanitarian assistance, especially during the Covid-19 pandemic, and India used it to ship 75,000 tons of wheat as food assistance to Afghanistan in 2020. A total of 110,000 tons of wheat and 2,000 tons of pulses have been trans-shipped from India to Afghanistan so far. During the Indian Prime Minister’s visit to Iran in May 2016, a trilateral agreement to establish the International Transport and Transit Corridor (Chabahar Agreement) was signed by India, Iran and Afghanistan. India is participating in developing the first phase of Shahid Behesti terminal at the port in cooperation with the Iranian government. Jaishankar said in response to a question from MP Ritesh Pandey of the Bahujan Samaj Party that India has committed a total grant assistance of $85 million and a credit facility of $150 million for developing the Shahid Behesti terminal. “As part of our commitment towards infrastructure development of Shahid Behesti terminal, Chabahar port, India has supplied [six] mobile habour cranes (two 140 tons and four 100 tons capacity) and other equipment worth $25 million,” Jaishankar said. The Indian company, India Ports Global Limited, through its wholly owned subsidiary, India Ports Global Chabahar Free Zone, took over operations at Chabahar port from December 24, 2018. Since then, it has handled 160 vessels, 14,420 TEUs (twenty-foot equivalent units) of cargo and 3.2 million tons of bulk and general cargo. The Shahid Behesti terminal has handled shipments and trans-shipments from countries such as Russia, Brazil, Thailand, Germany, Ukraine, Oman, Romania, Bangladesh, Australia, Kuwait, Uzbekistan and the United Arab Emirates. 
10-12-2021||India||'Mahua, let me give you a message': As Mamata rebukes, Mahua Moitra nods; video goes viral||The video of an internal administrative meeting of West Bengal chief minister Mamata Banerjee in which she apparently scolds Lok Sabha MP Mahua Moitra has gone viral on social media. Mahua Moitra can be seen sitting at the meeting and silently nodding."Mahua, let me give you a clear message here. I do not see who is in whose favour or against. I do not believe in the politics of putting up a show on YouTube, paper, digital etc. This kind of politics can not sustain for long. And it is not right to expect that one person will be at one post forever," Mamata can be seen saying this as Mahua nods.Watch how an upset Mamata Banerjee publicly rebuked TMC MP Mahua MoitraIn a startling public disclosure Mamata Banerjee says she uses West Bengal Police DG (law and order) and CID to keep a tab on party members, what they do and the conspiracies they hatch.All the tall talk about ‘fascism’ and ‘democracy’ takes a back seat in her police state. pic.twitter.com/kc4IsmiGJIMahua Moitra says she stands by her tweets on Adani, after Mamata-Adani meeting"When there will be an election, the party will decide who will contest and who won't. So, there should not be any difference of opinion. Everyone has to work together," Mamata said. Then Mamata asks for some 'Jayanta' and referring to some YouTube video, the chief minister sought to know what actually happened. "Yes maam, there was a sabotage," a person said. "I know who did this. I got it probed by the police, by ADG law and order and CID. It was a staged incident and planted in the media. We all have to work together," Mamata said and went on to enquire about other municipalities.The meeting took place in Krishnanagar on Thursday and Mahua Moitra, who was the district chief of Nadia till August, was rebuked because of some factionalism within the party in the district.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/mahua-let-me-give-you-a-message-as-mamata-rebukes-mahua-moitra-nods-video-goes-viral-101639145672254.html
10-12-2021||India||Goa Congress hit by resignations as Priyanka Gandhi launches party’s poll campaign today||A series of resignations hit the Goa unit of the Congress on Friday after a few leaders had tendered their resignations from the party ahead of the state assembly elections next year. The resignations also came as Congress general secretary Priyanka Gandhi Vadra visited the state to launch the party’s poll campaign.Some leaders from the Porvorim assembly constituency in North Goa district and a senior leader from South Goa had quit the party on the day, according to a report by news agency PTI.The group of leaders from Porvorim were backed by independent MLA Rohan Khaunte. “The Congress party does not seem to be interested in contesting the upcoming Goa elections seriously. It is a non-starter due to the attitude of some of its leaders,” said Gupesh Naik, a former zilla panchayat member, who led the group.Also read | TMC, Congress political approach must converge, says ChidambaramMoreno Rebelo, from the Curtorim constituency in South Goa, also quit the party after it decided to give the Curtorim seat to sitting MLA Aleixo Reginaldo for the upcoming elections.“Aleixo Reginaldo Lourenco, who has never participated in any party activity for the last four-and-a-half years and on the contrary only abused party leaders and yourself, worked against the official candidate of Curtorim in the recently held Zilla Panchayat election, is promoted as working president of the party and is declared as a candidate by senior leaders during a recently held convention,” he wrote to state Congress president Girish Chodankar.Meanwhile, Congress’ alliance with the Goa Forward Party has caused some rift within the state unit. While election in-charge P Chidambaram has said that the GFP has only extended its support to the Congress and refused to call it an alliance partner, senior leader Dinesh Gundu Rao had proposed a meeting between GFP leader Vijai Sardesai and Chodankar.Amid the confusion within the party, Priyanka Gandhi on Friday addressed various rallies in the state and met with different communities. She interacted with tribal women in Morpirla village in Goa and spoke at ‘Priyadarshini’, a women’s convention at Costa Ground in Aquem, Goa.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/goa-congress-hit-by-resignations-as-priyanka-gandhi-launches-party-s-poll-campaign-today-101639144043185.html
10-12-2021||India||India, Afghan embassy quietly prepped for flight from Kabul for weeks||NEW DELHI: A special charter flight from Kabul to New Delhi on Friday evacuated 104 people, most of them Afghan Sikhs and Hindus, and took back Afghan nationals stranded in India and medical supplies.The flight, operated by Afghanistan’s Kam Air and arranged by India, brought 10 Indians and 94 Afghans, including members of the Hindu and Sikh minorities, external affairs ministry spokesperson Arindam Bagchi said in a tweet. Indian authorities and the Afghan embassy in New Delhi worked discreetly over the past few weeks to arrange the charter flight, people familiar with the matter said on condition of anonymity.A video posted on social media showed a Sikh man, who was among the Afghan Sikhs evacuated to India, saying that they were taking the flight after waiting for almost three months.The group – which included women, six children and three infants – brought with it three Guru Granth Sahibs from historic gurdwaras and Hindu religious texts from the ancient Asamai Mandir in Kabul.The family of Mahram Ali, an Afghan security guard killed during the March 2020 terror attack on Gurdwara Guru Har Rai in Kabul, was evacuated to India and will be rehabilitated by Sobti Foundation.The charter flight took back close to 90 Afghan nationals, mostly people who came to India for medical treatment and were stranded after the Taliban takeover of Afghanistan. The aircraft also carried medical supplies that are part of the humanitarian aid offered by India to Afghanistan, the people said. The last commercial flight from the Indian side on the Kabul-Delhi route was operated by Air India on August 15, the day Kabul fell to the Taliban. Hundreds of Indian nationals, including diplomats and security personnel, were subsequently evacuated from Kabul in special Indian Air Force flights during August. India also withdrew its ambassador and all other staff from the mission in Kabul – effectively closing the embassy for the second time since 1996.However, scores of Indian nationals were still in Afghanistan after all evacuation flights were stopped because of security concerns, which were heightened after the devastating suicide attack at Kabul airport on August 26 that killed more than 180 people.The people cited above said many of these Indians subsequently left Afghanistan via land routes and travelled to Iran and Central Asian states. As of last week, it was believed that a little more than a dozen Indians were currently stranded in Afghanistan.More charter flights could be arranged to take back hundreds of Afghans still stranded in India, the people said. Four special flights were recently arranged to take Afghan nationals stranded in India to Kabul via Tehran but this arrangement was subsequently suspended as the cost was too high – each traveller paid almost $850 for the trip – and most of the Afghans could not afford the fare.
10-12-2021||India||Anupam Kher remembers Gen. Bipin Rawat: I can still feel the warmth of that handshake||The tragic demise of Gen Bipin Rawat and his wife Madhulika Rawat, who were on board the IAF chopper which crashed near Coonoor, Tamil Nadu, left the entire nation in a state of shock and anger. Actor Anupam Kher who had the “good fortunet” of meeting Gen Rawat many times, expressed grief over the unfortunate incident. He shared throwback pictures from when he met CDS Rawat.In an exclusive conversation with HT City, Kher remembers the late Gen and the words of wisdom he got to learn from the officer.I have grown up seeing people in uniform as I come from Shimla, which was the headquarters of Army Western Command. I met them when I was on my way to the school and college and then I did plays with Army officers. So I am somebody who has the greatest regards for the Army and people in services.Then I came in close contact with them when I as a drama school student did a play with them. Because I spent a lot of time with people like Colonel Kaul of that time or later on Gen. JP Gupta, I understood it all — discipline and living life under the shadow of constant danger protecting the nation.Four years back, I was very thrilled when I was asked to join the NCC (National Cadet Corps) Board, where I got the opportunity to meet all the three chiefs of services — Army, Naval and Air Force. And it was also where I met General Bipin Rawat for the first time. A photo that I took with all of them was the ultimate picture, and felt like getting the biggest award.I thought he had such an amazing sense of humour because he was genuinely laughing at my jokes. So, I saw the human side of him and he also asked me, ‘Sab theek hai? Gharwale kaise hain?’ like a regular person. I also got the chance told them how great I am an admirer of his conversations and most importantly mention that I was in the NCC and showed him my ID. I stayed in touch with him and conveyed that ‘main aapse milna chahta hoon’. Hence, when I was in Delhi, he made time for me and I especially went to South Block to meet him. That’s when I spent time with him and asked him, ‘Yeh jazba kahan se kab sikhte hain’. To which he very candidly replied, ‘Hum jazbe ke sath paida hote hain aur fir yeh badhta jaata hai’. That one hour of conversation, where I took a picture shaking hands with him, was the most amazing.There was also this one time when I got a call (from his office) informing that his wife wanted to see my play in Delhi and the show was houseful. So, I organised passes for her. After that, I got a call from General Rawat, who told me that his wife found the story of life ‘very inspirational’.Then he became the Chief of Defense Staff (CDS), and I met him when the oath ceremony was taking place at the second Lok Sabha aur jis garmjoshi ke saath woh mile, that was amazing. For me, he symbolises epitome of solidarity, courage and an amazing sense of dignity. I’ve always seen him as someone very decisive and to the point. Sometimes you need role models to live life and they are not necessarily supposed to be sportsperson, politicians... my role model is people like Gen Rawat.It took me a lot of time to register what had happened with him. I think he really lived through his life rather than the end of life. The courage will come from what he symbolised. The loss of course is there, but millions of people like me, who felt sad about his going, will continue with his legacy of deshbhakhti. Kabhi kabhi kisi ke jaane ke baad pata lagta hai ki woh hamare liye kitna important insaan tha. As long as people like them are there, our country will always be stronger and powerful. I will cherish that handshake and I can still feel its warmth. That handshake gave me a feeling that ‘everything will be okay with my country’.Follow author on Twitter/@monikarawal
10-12-2021||India||Don't use state force to browbeat political opinion, journalists: Supreme Court||State force should never be used to either browbeat a political opinion or journalists, the Supreme Court has said, calling for "introspection from the political class across the country" over debasement in dialogue which is taking place even as it asked scribes to be more responsible in the “twitter age”.A bench comprising Justices SK Kaul and MM Sundresh made these observations while quashing the FIRs against editors of a news web portal and others, in connection with articles published in West Bengal.In a country which prides itself on its diversity, there are bound to be different perceptions and opinions which would include political opinions, the apex court said.That is very essence of a democracy, it said.“State force should never be used to either browbeat a political opinion or the journalists suffer the consequences of what is already in public domain.“We hasten to add that this does not take away the responsibility of the journalists in how they report the matters, more so in a “twitter age,” the bench said.The observations came after senior advocate Siddhartha Dave, appearing on behalf of the West Bengal government, informed the bench that the state has decided to withdraw the FIRs registered against Nupur J Sharma, the editor of English language Opindia.com, YouTuber Ajeet Bharti and others including its founder and CEO.The top court said that it was not inclined to let go off the opportunity of saying something which is troubling the society and the court.“It is undoubtedly the debasement in the dialogue which is taking place which needs introspection from the political class across the country. In a country which prides itself on its diversity, there are bound to be different perceptions and opinions which would include political opinions.“The present proceedings in a way emanate from the same. We say so as what the petitioners have done is to reproduce what the political class has stated against each other and which is already in public domain, an aspect pointed out eminently by senior counsel for the petitioners,” it said.The bench said that no doubt by the very nature of the job required to be performed by the political class, at times their exchanges may get heated.“But it should not explode. We are sure difference in perceptions can be expressed in better language,” it said in its order uploaded today.The top court had earlier stayed further proceedings in a fresh FIR lodged in West Bengal against them.On June 26 last year, the top court had stayed further proceedings in three FIRs lodged in West Bengal against petitioners.In their intervention application, Sharma and others had said that they are constrained to move the top court due to persistent hounding and victimisation by the West Bengal government, who in its endeavour to scuttle inconvenient media reports registered multiple FIRs against them.The application had further said, "That the order dated June 26, 2020, came as a respite to the petitioners whose honour, life and liberty were sought to be repeatedly undermined by the state..."However, "it appears that the respondents are unrelenting in the efforts to persecute the petitioners/ applicants as the petitioners/applicants have recently on August 5, been served with a notice under section 41A of the CrPC from CID, West Bengal concerning FIR registered with Bhadreshwar police station, it had said.It had said that the FIR relates to media reports published in 'opindia.com' about Telenipara communal riots of May 2020 and were registered contemporaneously around the same time as FIRs, which forms the subject matter of the writ petition.The petitioners had said the FIR came to their notice only on the receipt of the notice under section 41 CrPC on August 5 this year requiring them to appear before the investigating officer on August 13, but later the investigating officer through an email dated August 12 asked the petitioner to appear on August 23.They had sought a stay on the investigation emanating from the FIR registered at Bhadreshwar police station and the notice issued to them for appearing before the investigating officer. They had also sought quashing of the FIR.On June 26 last year, the apex court, while staying the three FIRs, issued notices to the West Bengal government and the Centre seeking their replies on the plea.The main writ petition filed by Sharma and others including the founder and CEO of the news portal and the editor of its Hindi language publications claimed that the West Bengal government and its "authoritarian Kolkata Police" are misusing FIRs and "brute police powers" to intimidate journalists."The petitioners are constrained to invoke the extraordinary writ jurisdiction of this court under Article 32 of the Constitution against the patently extortionist and mala fide actions of the Government of West Bengal to impose illegal censorship in the state by threatening, scuttling, and gagging honest media houses through misuse of state police," the plea claimed.The petitioners had claimed they were informed that the cause of one of the FIRs lodged by police was an article published by the news web portal on the issue of alleged hiding of data related to COVID-19.The plea had claimed that one of the FIRs lodged pertained to a news report published by the web portal in October last year.It alleged that to undermine the freedom of the press, the state has rather chosen to "hound down" the petitioners by registering multiple FIRs in order to "bargain for deletion of news articles by putting the petitioner's life and liberty at bait".It had claimed the state and the police are not only intimidating the journalists but also threatening their family members to seek deletion of media reports which bring to the public notice "the actual state of affairs in the state of West Bengal during these difficult times".It had also alleged that the police had intimidated some of the petitioners to get the news articles deleted."Accordingly, the officers while insulting and demeaning the petitioner no. 1, asked her to use her influence to get the articles removed or to face the brunt of state's political executives," it had claimed.The plea had claimed that deleting any content from the internet has a nationwide effect and any decision to delete any content has to be left to be taken by the Centre and not by state governments.It had also sought a direction to exclude the role of police in the matter of deletion of content on the internet particularly since there exists a regulatory mechanism for overseeing such content and restricting any mischievous contents.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/dont-use-state-force-to-browbeat-political-opinion-journalists-supreme-court-101639144200850.html
10-12-2021||India||Kritika Rawat, Tarini Rawat: Know all about CDS Bipin Rawat's daughters, family||Chief of Defence Staff General Bipin Rawat and his wife Madhulika Rawat were laid to rest on Friday at the Brar Square crematorium in Delhi. Their two daughters Kritika Rawat and Tarini Rawat performed the last rites of their parents.Not much is known about Bipin Rawat's daughters. Kritika is the eldest daughter who is married and has a son. The grandkid was also snapped at their house paying last respect to his grandparents. Younger daughter Kritika Rawat is an advocate and used to stay with the parents in Delhi.General Bipin Rawat wanted to visit wife's ancestral home next year, says kinWhile Bipin Rawat was a native of Uttarakhand, his wife Madhulika Rawat was from Madhya Pradesh. Both of them maintained a strong connection with their native places. Bipin Rawat had visited his native village Saina in 2018 and told his uncle that he wanted to build a house and settle there.As recalled by his uncle Bharat Singh Rawat, Bipin Rawat called him about a month ago and asked about the road connectivity to the village.Bipin Rawat's maternal village is in Uttarkashi which he had last visited in 2019. Relatives from his maternal side too were aware that Bipin Rawat wanted to settle in Uttarakhand.CDS Bipin Rawat cremated with full military honours, daughters perform last ritesBipin Rawat and Madhulika Rawat got married in 1986 when Bipin rawat was a captain in the Army.Bipin Rawat was in close touch with his in-laws as his brother-in-law Yashwardhan Singh recalled a conversation where Bipin Rawat promised to visit Madhya Pradesh's Shahdol in January next year. He had plans to set up a sainik school in the district.As Bipin Rawat and Madhulika Rawat were laid to rest on Friday, Madhulika's brother said they will pick the ashes early morning tomorrow and head to Haridwar where the ashes will be immersed in the holy Ganga. "Both Gen Rawat and my sister were cremated on a common pyre. We will pick the ashes early morning tomorrow in a 'kalash' and then head to Haridwar where the ashes will be immersed in holy Ganga and some rituals will be performed," said Gen Rawat's brother-in-law Yashwardhan Singh told PTI.(With agency inputs)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/kritika-rawat-tarini-rawat-know-all-about-cds-bipin-rawat-s-daughters-family-101639143301466.html
10-12-2021||India||Rahul Gandhi to address rally in Dehradun as part of 50th anniversary of Bangladesh War||Congress leader Rahul Gandhi will be addressing a rally in Dehradun next week as part of the conclusion of the year-long celebration of the 50th anniversary of the Bangladesh Liberation War, 1971.“Former Congress President, Shri Rahul Gandhi will be addressing a huge rally in Dehradun (Uttarakhand) on December 16 that will include a large number of 1971 War Veterans and other military veterans,” said Congress General Secretary K.C Venugopal in a statement on Friday.The year-long celebration will formally conclude with a ceremony in New Delhi on December 15 where Congress President Sonia Gandhi will be the Chief Guest.The General Secretary said that programmes like honouring War Veterans and War Widows and commemorating the Bangladesh Liberation War-1971 shall be conducted in a befitting manner at the district level across the country on December 16.The Bangladesh Liberation War, 1971 (BLW-71) celebrations, which were delayed due to Covid-19, started in mid-July with a district level meeting at Panchkula, Haryana.“Till date, the Indian National Congress has organised over 100 district level meetings throughout the country. The state level functions commenced on November 16 with a meeting in Kohima (Nagaland) followed by other states and are continuing. Maximum District meetings have been held in Madhya Pradesh, Bihar and Tamil Nadu,” he added.Venugopal said though the formal concluding ceremony will be held on December 15, several states, which have not concluded their state-level functions, have been asked to continue up to December 31 and conclude the celebration programmes with honouring of martyr families and also war veterans. The programmes shall also continue at the District/Block levels in some of the “Soldier States” like Uttarakhand, Himachal Pradesh, Punjab, Haryana and Rajasthan beyond the end of this year.“In all the meetings held so far, a large number of military veterans have enthusiastically participated and have been honoured,” he said.He added that the programmes have left an everlasting impression on the youth of the country making them aware of the saga of the Bangladesh Liberation War under the “visionary and courageous” leadership of then Prime Minister Indira Gandhi, and the “decisive” military victory planned and executed under an “outstanding” military leadership of Field Marshal (then General) Sam Manekshaw.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/rahul-gandhi-to-address-rally-in-dehradun-as-part-of-50th-anniversary-of-bangladesh-war-101639143740391.html
10-12-2021||India||Aryan Khan wants waiver from appearing before NCB every week||Bollywood actor Shah Rukh Khan's son Aryan Khan has approached the Bombay high court on Friday seeking a waiver from appearing before the Narcotics Control Bureau office every Friday to mark presence. Now that the cruise drugs case in which he was arrested has been transferred to NCB's special investigation team, the bail condition that Aryan has to appear at the Mumbai office of the NCB could be relaxed, said the plea. The plea could be heard next week. The application also said that he has to be accompanied by police personnel every time he visits the NCB office here due to the large number of media persons waiting outside. Aryan Khan was arrested by the NCB on October 3 on charges of alleged possession, consumption and sale/purchase of drugs following a raid on a cruise ship off the Mumbai coast. He was granted bail by the high court on October 28. The high court also imposed 14 conditions on him. One of the bail conditions was he has to appear before the NCB each Friday. Apart from this, he is not allowed to leave Mumbai without informing the agency and not to leave India without permission from the special NDPS court. After getting bail, Aryan Khan has marked his presence every Friday without any exception. On December 10 too, he arrived at the NCB office. Earlier, model Munmum Dhamecha, a co-accused in the case approached the Bombay high court asking permission to mark her presence at the Delhi office as she is a Delhi resident.(With PTI inputs)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/aryan-khan-wants-waiver-from-appearing-before-ncb-every-week-101639141524673.html
10-12-2021||India||Omicron case found in Dharavi, third till date in Mumbai||Mumbai reported one more positive case of the Omicron variant of Covid-19 on Friday, taking the total number of such infections in Mumbai to three.According to the Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) the newly detected patient is a 49-year-old man who landed in Mumbai from Tanzania earlier on December 4.Kiran Dighavkar, assistant municipal commissioner, said that the patient initially took a normal RT-PCR test on arrival at the airport as he was not vaccinated and Tanzania was not included in the list of at-risk countries.“The patient was asked to wait at the airport till the reports came in, however he left for Dharavi and the RT-PCR report turned out to be positive. Following which, the local G/North ward office tracked the patient and the sample was sent for genome sequencing to Kasturba Hospital, where it came out to be Omicron positive,” Dighavkar said.He added that the patient is asymptomatic and is presently admitted at Seven Hills Hospital (Andheri East) and is not allowed to return home. The BMC has also isolated two High Risk Contacts (HRCs) whose test reports turned out to be negative.Dighavkar said that the patient is asymptomatic. He shifted to Dharavi from Chennai a few years back.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/omicron-case-found-in-dharavi-third-till-date-in-mumbai-101639141519358.html
10-12-2021||India||Bommai says sole survivor of crash Group Captain Varun Singh getting ‘best medical treatment’||Karnataka chief minister Basavaraj Bommai said on Friday that he has visited the Indian Air Force Command Hospital in Bengaluru to meet Group Captain Varun Singh, who is the lone survivor of the Indian Air Force (IAF) chopper crash.Addressing reporters in Haveri, Bommai informed that Singh is receiving the "best medical treatment from specialist doctors" at the hospital. “I pray for his speedy recovery,” he was quoted as saying by news agency ANI.
10-12-2021||India||Chopper crash: Tamil Nadu police warns of ‘strict action’ against social media rumours||The Tamil Nadu police on Friday issued a stern warning against those who were propagating false information regarding the Indian Air Force (IAF) chopper crash in Coonoor on Wednesday that killed chief of defence staff (CDS) General Bipin Rawat, his wife Madhulika and 11 others of the armed forces.Sharing a tweet in Tamil titled, ‘Tamil Nadu Police warning post’, police said, “Strict legal action will be taken against those who spread rumors and false information on social media regarding the helicopter crash.”தமிழக காவல்துறை எச்சரிக்கை பதிவுஹெலிகாப்டர் விபத்து தொடர்பாக சமூக வலைதளங்களில் வதந்தி மற்றும் பொய்யான தகவல்களை பரப்புவோர் மீது சட்டப்படி கடும் நடவடிக்கை எடுக்கப்படும். pic.twitter.com/DGIHvKuNmDThe warning from the police came a few hours after IAF called for avoiding “uninformed speculation” about the accident. “IAF has constituted a tri-service Court of Inquiry to investigate the cause of the tragic helicopter accident on 8 Dec 21. The inquiry would be completed expeditiously & facts brought out. Till then, to respect the dignity of the deceased, uninformed speculation may be avoided,” the IAF said in a tweet.Also read | CDS Bipin Rawat cremated with full military honours, daughters perform last ritesA similar warning was also issued by Karnataka chief minister Basavaraj Bommai. He said “offensive” social media posts about the accident are “absolutely unpardonable” and action would be taken the same.“Offensive Tweets and Social Media posts about the tragic chopper crash in which we lost our #CDSGeneralBipinRawat will not be tolerated. I strongly condemn all such messages and have instructed our Police Officials to take strict disciplinary legal action against the offenders,” he tweeted.On Thursday, a YouTuber was arrested in Tamil Nadu for saying the state was becoming another Kashmir under the rule of MK Stalin-led Dravida Munnetra Kazhagam (DMK). The tweet has since then been taken down and the man, who went by the name Maridhas, was arrested under sections 153 (provocation with intent to cause riot) and 505(2) (making statements with intent to cause public mischief, fear, alarm among public) of the Indian Penal Code.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/chopper-crash-tamil-nadu-police-warns-of-strict-action-against-social-media-rumours-101639140071920.html
10-12-2021||India||Terrorists attack police in Kashmir’s Bandipora; 2 cops dead||Two cops succumbed to their injuries on Friday after terrorists attacked a police team in Bandipora in north Kashmir. The area has been cordoned off by the police.Constables Mohd Sultan and Fayaz Ahmad were killed when terrorists opened fire at the police team in Bandipora’s Gulshan Chowk. “Terrorists fired upon a police party at Gulshan Chowk area of Bandipora. In this terror incident, 02 police personnel namely SgCT Mohd Sultan and Ct Fayaz Ahmad got injured and attained martyrdom. Area cordoned off. Further details shall follow,” the police said in a tweet. Bandipora witnessed another attack on security personnel last month at a Central Reserve Police Force (CRPF) camp in Bandipora’s Sumbal. No damage however was caused as the grenade missed its intended target, CRPF personnel told news agency PTI. The district earlier in October also witnessed a grenade attack which led to six civilians, including a woman, being injured.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/terrorists-attack-police-in-kashmir-s-bandipora-2-cops-dead-101639139611213.html
10-12-2021||India||Opposition against high speed rail project gains momentum in Kerala||The Communist Party of India (Marxist)-led Kerala government is of the opinion that the ambitious high speed rail project, called K Rail, will change the transport system of the state but opposition parties are against the idea saying it will turn into another Nandigram for the ruling party. Many green activists have also opposed the ₹63,490 crore proposed project saying the state is yet to learn lessons from recent natural calamities and early warnings of climate change. Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan, known for his adamant posture, however said the government will go ahead with the project and the party has also given an open call to its workers to expose forces that are bent on derailing developmental activities of the state. The government has also started a crackdown on protestors who disrupted survey and other work related to the project. Police said around 100 people were booked in four districts of north Kerala in a week. Last week the government announced special officers to acquire land and they faced fierce resistance at many places. Protestors have floated action committees throughout the state and are planning to intensify their struggle. The CPI(M) is planning to portray it as a struggle between development and anti-development forces in the state. Though the project is yet to get environmental clearance and the Union railway ministry’s nod the government is surging ahead with the project. On Wednesday, the CM sent a letter to Prime Minister Modi seeking his personal intervention to speed up sanction for the project. In the letter, he said, a pan-India future ready rail system will hike economic growth and improve ease of living and would benefit not only the state but also the nation at large. “I request your personal intervention to accord sanction to the key project that will be a milestone in the progress of the state,” he said. But earlier Union Railway Minister Ashwini Vaishnav had red-flagged the project citing its inability to bear the liability of loans to be availed from international agencies. The state had submitted a proposal to take ₹33,700 crore from lending agencies but the Niti Ayog had given approval for the big project on two conditions, the repayment of the loan and cost overruns would be the sole responsibility of the state. The high-speed rail connecting one-end of the state (Kasaragod to Thiruvananthapuram) needs 1383 hectares of land most of which is private land. Since land is at a premium in the densely-populated state it will be a gargantuan task for the state. The state is planning to fund the project using equity funds from the government, foreign lending and railway ministry’s part funding. It will take only four hours to cover 529.45 km (present time is 12 hours) and it will be completed by 2025, said the Kerala Rail Development Corporation Ltd, the nodal agency for the project. But it seems things are not that easy for the government. The two main opposition parties, Congress and BJP, are opposing it and some of the allies of the ruling Left Democratic Party have apprehensions about the big ticket project. Green activists and some of the left-leaning organisations like Sastra Sahitya Parishad, that played a key role in total literacy movement, have also opposed the project. “The government is going ahead with the project ignoring large-scale protests from different sections. The CM is not even ready for a dialogue. It will cause immense environmental damage and displace thousands of people,” said state Congress chief K Sudhakaran MP. He said the party will have to pay a heavy price and reminded the CM of the last days of the CPI(M) government in West Bengal which tried to suppress a farmers’ uprising in Nandigram over a proposed car project in 2007-2008. “The railway ministry feels that the big-budget project was unnecessary and instead of this it should help it to develop the existing railway line. The state has not even done a social and ecological study on the project,” said Minister of State for External Affairs V Muraleedharan, a staunch critic of the project. Some of the allies of the LDF also expressed apprehensions over the project. “True, many left organisations have reservations over the project. The government will clear all doubts,” said CPI secretary Kanam Rajendran. However, CPI(M) leader A Vijayaraghavan underplayed any differences in the ruling front. “It was part of the LDF manifesto. The project was conceived after enough studies. Forces that oppose the development of the state are creating unnecessary confusion and fanning trouble. K Rail will herald a new phase for the state,” he said. Metroman E Sreedharan also spoke out against the project. “Let the government first help complete the ongoing doubling work of the existing stretch between Ernakulam and Thiruvananthapuram which is dragging for more than two decades. K Rail’s alignment is also flawed; it is running parallel to the existing line from Tirur (Malappuram) to Kasaragod. The railways opposed this alignment. Around 140 kms of the line passes through wet land and it is not suitable for high speed trains,” he said. But the CPI(M) said the Metroman was opposing the project due to his political affiliations. (He was a BJP candidate in last assembly elections and lost). 
10-12-2021||India||India evacuates more than 100 people from Afghanistan; brings back ancient holy scriptures||At least 104 people from Afghanistan arrived in New Delhi on Friday under Operation Devi Shakti mission. The flight carried 10 Indians and 94 Afghan citizens of which 9 were children and three of those children were infants.“Under Operation Devi Shakti, a special Kam Air flight arranged by India has arrived in New Delhi from Kabul. It has brought 10 Indians and 94 Afghans including members of the Afghan Hindu-Sikh minority community. Among the evacuees are 9 children, including 3 infants,” the spokesperson of the ministry of external affairs Arindam Bagchi said.Operation Devi Shakti is aimed at bringing back Indians from Afghanistan following the takeover by the terrorist group after US withdrawal in August earlier this year.The three Sri Guru Granth Sahib from historical Gurdwaras in Afghanistan and Hindu religious scriptures including Ramayan, Mahabharat and Bhagavad Gita from the ancient 5th Century Asamai Mandir, Kabul were also brought to India on the same flight.Later, Union minister Hardeep Singh Puri and BJP chief JP Nadda carried the Guru Granth Sahibs which are slated to be kept in Gurdwara Guru Arjan Dev Ji, Mahavir Nagar. The Hindu scriptures will be kept in the Asamai Mandir in Faridabad.The Indian government and the Afghan embassy in Delhi came together to arrange for the flight. News agencies reported that the Sobti Foundation will rehabilitate the Afghan nationals, citing the India World Forum.“It is pertinent to mention that the family of Mahram Ali, a local security guard who was killed during the terror attack in Gurdwara Guru Har Rai, Shor Bazar, Kabul is also being facilitated and being airlifted and will be rehabilitated by Sobti Foundation,” the statement from India World Forum read.The flight will fly back to Afghanistan with 90 Afghan nationals stranded in India and medical supplies.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/india-evacuates-more-than-100-people-from-afghanistan-brings-back-ancient-holy-scriptures-101639137784203.html
10-12-2021||India||Give correct address: Centre urges international travellers amid Omicron scare||Union health ministry on Friday urged international travellers coming to India to provide correct addresses as it is becoming difficult to trace these passengers. For some miscommunication, people have not given the correct address where they are going making community surveillance difficult for us, joint secretary Lav Agarwal said. According to health ministry data, the number of Omicron cases confirmed in India is 25. The 26th case was confirmed after the ministry's briefing from Mumbai's Dharavi.Between December 1 and December 10 (8am), a total of 298 international flights landed in India from "at-risk" countries, carrying 58,469 passengers. A total of 83 passengers among them tested positive.2 more Omicron cases reported in Gujarat, NRI's contacts test positiveFrom other countries, a total of 2,348 international flights reached India carrying 3.68 lakh passengers. Among them, 13 tested positive, health ministry data showed.So far, Karnataka, Maharashtra, Gujarat, Rajasthan and Delhi have reported cases of this new variant. All detected cases have mild symptoms and Omicron cases consist of less than 0.04 per cent of the total variants detected in the country, the ministry said.Several reports of international passengers going missing, keeping their phones switched off have surfaced in the last few days amid the scare of Omicron, classified as a variant of concern by the World Health Organization.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/give-correct-address-centre-urges-international-travellers-amid-omicron-scare-101639137443903.html
10-12-2021||India||CDS Bipin Rawat cremated with full military honours, daughters perform last rites||The final rites of India’s first chief of defence staff (CDS) General Bipin Rawat were performed at the Brar Square crematorium in Delhi Cantonment on Friday. General Rawat was killed along with his wife Madhulika and 11 other military personnel in a chopper crash near Coonoor in Tamil Nadu’s Niligiris district on Wednesday.The CDS was accorded a sombre 17-gun salute in line with protocol. About 800 service personnel took part in the cremation ceremony. The Last Post and Rouse were played by tri-services buglers, following which the funeral pyre was lit by her daughters Kritika and Tarini.Before this, defence minister Rajnath Singh paid his tribute at the crematorium. Other members of the family also joined the daughters in paying their last respects.Their mortal remains were brought from their residence in a gun carriage decked with flowers with hundreds of mourners joining the funeral procession as it proceeded towards the crematorium. Citizens were seen chanting "jab tak suraj chaand rahega, Bipin ji ka naam rahega". The bodies were kept at the residence till 2pm for people to pay their last rites.Along with about 800 service personnel, Singh, law minister Kiren Rijiju, ambassador of France to India Emmanuel Lenain and British high commissioner to India Alex Ellis were in attendance for the military funeral.#WATCH | Delhi: #CDSGeneralBipinRawat laid to final rest with full military honours, 17-gun salute. His last rites were performed along with his wife Madhulika Rawat, who too lost her life in #TamilNaduChopperCrash. Their daughters Kritika and Tarini performed their last rites. pic.twitter.com/uTECZlIhI0Top military commanders of Sri Lanka, Bhutan, Nepal and Bangladesh also joined the CDS in his final journey.Earlier in the day, politicians cutting across party lines, envoys and clerics paid their tribute to General Rawat and his wife at their residence.Also read | Brigadier Lidder laid to rest with full military honoursUnion ministers Amit Shah, Nirmala Sitharaman, Mansukh Mandaviya, Smriti Irani, Narendra Singh Tomar and Sarbananda Sonowal went the Rawats' residence to pay their last respects.Several political leaders like Delhi Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal, Uttarakhand CM Pushkar Singh Dhami, Congress leaders Rahul Gandhi, Mallikarjun Kharge and Harish Singh Rawat, BJP chief JP Nadda and DMK leaders A Raja and Kanimozhi, among others, laid a wreath on the mortal remains of the CDS and his wife.The Army said the mortal remains of only three persons -- General Rawat, his wife Madhulika Rawat and Brigadier Lidder -- had been positively identified so far.Brigadier Lidder was cremated earlier in the day with full military honour.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/cds-rawat-laid-to-rest-with-full-military-honour-daughters-perform-last-rites-101639134553308.html
10-12-2021||India||News updates from HT: 'Only occasional’ cases of wrong Covid vaccine data entry, says govt and all the latest news||Here are today’s top news, analysis, and opinion. Know all about the latest news and other news updates from Hindustan Times.Only ‘occasional, isolated’ cases of incorrect Covid-19 vaccine data entry: GovtThe ministry of health and family welfare told Parliament on Friday that there have only been isolated instances across the country of Covid-19 vaccine certificates being issued in the name of deceased people, and measures were in place to resolve cases of incorrect entries. Read more.Offensive posts about Gen Rawat's chopper crash won't be tolerated: Karnataka CMKarnataka chief minister Basavaraj Bommai on Friday issued a warning against people commenting disrespectfully of the chief of defence staff General Bipin Rawat, who was killed in a chopper crash on Wednesday in Tamil Nadu. Read more.'Jab tak suraj chaand rahega': CDS Rawat's last journey amid slogans in CapitalChief of Defence Staff Bipin Rawat commenced on his final journey on Friday as a convoy carried the mortal remains of Rawat and his wife Madhulika Rawat to Delhi Cantonment crematorium. Read more.Govt initiates first-ever development of Indian footwear sizing systemThe central government has initiated the first-ever development of the ‘Indian footwear sizing system’ to standardise the footwear size ranges required to cover the need of the local population, the ministry of commerce and industry said on Friday. Read more.'Very difficult to build a team but easier to destroy it': Former India coach slams selectors for Kohli's captaincy snubReactions to Virat Kohli's removal as India's ODI captain continue to pour on. Read more.Sunny Kaushal, Sharvari Wagh head to Mumbai after Vicky Kaushal, Katrina Kaif wedding; Sham Kaushal says all went well. Read more.Uncle meets newborn nephew named after him. Watch emotional videoIt is a special moment for any uncle or aunt to meet their newborn nephew. Read more.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/news-updates-from-ht-only-occasional-cases-of-wrong-covid-vaccine-data-entry-101639133745484.html
10-12-2021||India||Keeping up with UP | The question of West Uttar Pradesh||As the farmers return home after spending a painful (but fruitful) 14 months on the borders of Delhi, it’s time for realpolitik. Their return has been made possible by a retreat by the Union government on almost all fronts – the farm laws which set off the protests have been repealed; codification and expansion of the minimum support price regime are on the table (and will, at the least, be discussed); all criminal cases related to the protests will be withdrawn; and the kin of farmers who died during the protests will be compensated.
10-12-2021||India||'A loud sound and the copter disappeared in fog': Man who took last video of Gen Rawat's chopper||The video which went viral on social media claiming to be the last available footage of the Mi17V5 Army helicopter before it crashed killing 13 people on board, including chief of defence staff General Bipin Rawat was recorded by a city-based wedding photographer who happened to be near the spot at the fateful moment on Wednesday. He was also an eye-witness of the fatal crash which, according to him, might have taken place because of bad weather and poor visibility. #WATCH | Final moments of Mi-17 chopper carrying CDS Bipin Rawat and 13 others before it crashed near Coonoor, Tamil Nadu yesterday(Video Source: Locals present near accident spot) pic.twitter.com/jzdf0lGU5LY Joe alias Kutty is a 52-year-old wedding photographer of Coimbatore who went to the Katteri area along with his friend Nazar and some of Nazar's family members to click photographs, PTI reported. Without knowing anything about the fate that was waiting for the chopper, Kutty took a video of the copter which became the last available location of the chopper that crashed minutes after the video was taken.Offensive posts about Gen Rawat's chopper crash won't be tolerated: Karnataka CMKutty and his friends were walking along the mountain train tracks as they were clicking photos. Kutty heard the sound of a helicopter approaching. It was visible. Out of curiosity, Kutty took a video of the copter, which soon disappeared in the fog. Soon after, there was a loud sound. They tried to reach the hill where the copter crashed but were stopped by the police team which arrived at the spot by the time. Later, they shared the footage with the police official, they told reporters.In the video too, the copter can be seen for a glimpse before it disappears. According to defence ministry data, the copter carrying 14 on board took off from Sulur airbase at 11.48am. It was scheduled to reach its destination, Wellington airbase, at 12.15pm. The control room of Sulur airbase lost contact with the copter at 12.08pm, seven minutes before the copter was to reach its destination.The crash resulted in the death of chief of defence staff General Bipin Rawat, his wife Madhulika Rawar and 11 other defence personnel, including the pilot of the copter. A tri-service inquiry has started into the crash and the black box containing the last location and last cockpit conversation has been retrieved on Thursday. According to available information, there was no emergency call from the copter before it crashed.As the nation mourns the passing away of 12 defence personnel, the situation in which the crash took place is not yet known. The Indian Air Force urged people to avoid uninformed speculation about the crash. IAF Group Captain Varun Singh is the lone survivor of the crash who is battling for his life at the Air Force's Command Hospital in Bengaluru.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/a-loud-sound-and-the-copter-disappeared-videographer-of-gen-rawat-s-copter-recalls-101639133220990.html
10-12-2021||India||Stir called off, farmers head home from Delhi’s borders||The Union government and the Samyukt Kisan Morcha (SKM), a platform of farm unions, on Thursday reached a deal on a raft of demands that had sparked yearlong protests by peasants in a major political challenge to the Modi regime. Farmers camped at Delhi’s borders began packing up on Thursday after the SKM accepted a clutch of proposals from the Centre, contained in a letter signed by Union agriculture secretary Sanjay Agarwal ,towards resolving key agrarian issues raised by it. The agreement paved the way for SKM to call off one of the largest demonstrations by farmers the country has seen in decades. The SKM will meet next on January 15, its leaders said. Protesters will take out victory processions from their camps on Delhi’s borders on December 11 on the way back to their villages, it was announced. The letter promised the continuation of government purchases of produce at a minimum support price (MSP) and also a possible broadening of the MSP regime; the withdrawal of cases against farmers; compensation for farmers who died during the protests; the removal of criminal liability for burning crop stubble; and that no changes to the Electricity Act would be made without consultation. The compromise between the Centre and protesting farm unions came after two days of back-channel negotiations that saw proposals being sent back and forth, and 11 rounds of tenuous negotiations that hit a deadlock on January 22. Tens of thousands of farmers opposed three agricultural reform laws enacted by the Modi government in September 2020, hunkering down on highways across several states for nearly 14 months. Thousands had also set up virtual protest townships at five sites along Delhi’s borders, choking traffic.Modi had said that the now-replealed laws would have benefited farmers by giving them greater access to markets. However, farm unions feared the reforms would pave the way for the government to stop buying produce at assured prices, eroding their bargaining power and leaving cultivators at the mercy of large corporations and supermarket chains. Prime Minister Narendra Modi announced on November 19 that his government would abandon the contentious laws and Parliament repealed them on November 29. The scrapping of the laws created an opportunity for farmers to re-engage with the government. On December 7, the Centre sent draft proposals to resolve the stand-off, to which the farm body proposed amendments. The SKM signed off on a final letter from the Centre on Thursday that contained key steps forward. “Today is victory day for farmers, who launched the biggest movement in the country after the freedom movement. Victory to those who feed the nation,” said Daljit Randhawa, a wheat-grower from Punjab’s Sangrur, who has been camping at a protest site on the outskirts of the nation capital for months. The proposals contained in letter from the agriculture secretary were unanimously accepted by the five-member team of farm leaders authorized to take decisions on behalf of the SKM. In the letter, the Centre said it would set up a committee mandated to “ensure how all farmers can get minimum support prices (MSP)”. It also assured that the current levels of federal procurement of farm produce at assured prices would not be pared. “This has allayed a major fear of farmers that the government could reduce or stop buying farm produce at MSP,” said Yogendra Yadav, the leader of Swaraj India, and a member of the SKM’s coordination committee. Farmers have demanded a law to guarantee minimum prices for 22-odd commodities. Distress selling of farm produce and price volatility in non-cereals have been a major gripe among cultivators. The Union government’s letter also stated that the governments of Uttar Pradesh, Uttarakhand, Himachal Pradesh, Madhya Pradesh and Haryana had agreed to withdraw all cases registered against farmers and their supporters during the course of their agitation with immediate effect, a major demand of the SKM. Cases against farmers registered by central law-enforcement agencies and in Union Territories as well as by Delhi police would also be withdrawn immediately, the Centre stated. According to SKM leaders, Haryana and Uttar Pradesh alone have pressed over 45,000 cases against farmers. Accepting another major demand, the Centre stated the Haryana and Uttar Pradesh governments would grant compensation to the families of nearly 700 farmers who died of heat, cold and exhaustion during the year-long sit-in demonstrations. The government also proposed that it would not move an amendment to India’s Electricity Act without consulting the SKM. The SKM has objected to certain provisions in the Electricity Amendment Bill 2020, saying the changes would increase energy costs for agriculturists. Farmers would also not be criminally liable for burning crop residue after harvests, a major cause of air pollution in the national capital. Peasants would be exempt from prosecution under Section 15 of an anti-pollution law currently in force, the Centre said. During back-channel negotiations with the home ministry, the Centre however told SKM that it had no powers to exempt farmers from fines for stubble burning imposed by the Supreme Court. The farmers had also wanted the sacking and arrest of Union minister of home Ajay Mishra Teni. Teni’s son was arrested after a car owned by him rammed into farmers in Uttar Pradesh’s Lakhimpur Kheri. The SKM eventually didn’t pursue this. “The issue of investigation into Teni and his son is currently being monitored the Supreme Court. So, we have decided not to interfere in this,” said Shiv Kumar Kakkaji, one of the five members of the SKM empowered to take decisions. The Modi government’s move to address key issues of farmers come as the Bharatiya Janata Party prepared to fight crucial state polls, especially in Punjab and Uttar Pradesh, where farmers are an influential voting bloc. “It now remains to be seen how whether the government will deliver on assurances on MSP. If farmers are not satisfied, they are likely to restart their agitation. The farm laws were repealed because of farmers represent a significant political constituency and polls are due in states,” said Sudhir Panwar, who teaches political science at Lucknow University. 
10-12-2021||India||In Karnataka MLC polls, Chitradurga logs low turnout, Dakshina Kannada at 95.15%||Polling for the 25 seats of the Vidhan Parishad or the upper house in the Karnataka legislature was brisk in most districts with the exception of a few where turnout was very poor.Chitradurga, about 200 km from Bengaluru, had a voter turnout of 2.72% till 12 pm and it was 31.75% in Tumakuru.Only elected representatives of various local bodies and assemblies are eligible to vote in this election.“Today I participated in the ongoing elections for the Vidhan Parishad and exercised my franchise in Shiggaon in Haveri district,” Basavaraj Bommai, the Karnataka chief minister said in a post on Twitter.The Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP), Janata Dal (Secular) or JD(S) and the Congress are hoping to secure victories to keep control of the upper house of the legislature.There are 90 candidates in the fray for 20 Local Authority’s Constituencies.The elections come at a time when the ruling BJP is under immense pressure as its government is facing several charges of corruption including involvement in the Bitcoin scam in which several prominent political leaders and officials are alleged to have laundered money using crypto currencies.Politically too, Bommai and the BJP are facing a challenge in the polls after losing one of the two bypoll seats in the October 30 elections for Hanagal and Sindgi. Bommai had suffered defeat in Hanagal in his home district of Haveri.The Congress is hoping to capitalise on the discord and dissent within the BJP and prepare the ground for other upcoming polls like Zilla and Taluka Panchayat, Bruhat Bengaluru Mahanagara Palike (BBMP, the city’s civic body) and the 2023 assembly polls.Voting will be held between 8 am and 4 pm and the results will be declared on December 14.“My vote is for progress, unity and stability. That’s why people are choosing to vote for the Congress Party. Cast my vote for the MLC elections in Kanakapura,” DK Shivakumar, the president of the Karnataka Pradesh Congress Committee (KPCC) said on Friday after casting his vote.Dakshina Kannada recorded 95.15% turnout at 12 pm while Uttara Kannada recorded 78.93%, according to information shared by the chief electoral officer (CEO) in Karnataka.Bengaluru Urban recorded 58.51% turnout and Bengaluru Rural recorded 59.04%.The border district of Belagavi recorded 34.91% while Mysuru registered 37.40% turnout.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/in-karnataka-mlc-polls-chitradurga-logs-poor-turnout-dakshina-kannada-at-9515-101639132515783.html
10-12-2021||India||'Jab tak suraj chaand rahega': CDS General Bipin Rawat's last journey amid slogans in Capital||Chief of Defence Staff Bipin Rawat commenced on his final journey on Friday as a convoy carried the mortal remains of Rawat and his wife Madhulika Rawat to Delhi Cantonment crematorium. Citizens were seen chanting slogans as the cortege moved towards the Brar Square crematorium from his residence.
10-12-2021||India||Offensive posts about Gen Rawat's chopper crash won't be tolerated: Karnataka CM||Karnataka chief minister Basavaraj Bommai on Friday issued a warning against people commenting disrespectfully of the chief of defence staff General Bipin Rawat, who was killed in a chopper crash on Wednesday in Tamil Nadu. As the first CDS of India is on his last journey in Capital Delhi on Friday, Bommat warned that people posting such messages will be booked immediately."Offensive Tweets and Social Media posts about the tragic chopper crash in which we lost our #CDSGeneralBipinRawat will not be tolerated. I strongly condemn all such messages and have instructed our Police Officials to take strict disciplinary legal action against the offenders," the chief minister said.Top commanders of Bangladesh, Bhutan, Nepal and Lanka join CDS' final journeyOffensive Tweets and Social Media posts about the tragic chopper crash in which we lost our #CDSGeneralBipinRawat will not be tolerated. I strongly condemn all such messages and have instructed our Police Officials to take strict disciplinary legal action against the offenders.Talking to news agency ANI, the chief minister said, “Some persons with perverted minds have tweeted derogative, celebratory messages about the death of Chief of Defence Staff Gen Rawat. The Police Chief has been instructed to take legal action against these elements."Earlier in the day, the Indian Air Force sent out a statement against uninformed speculation regarding the plane crash. "AF has constituted a tri-service Court of Inquiry to investigate the cause of the tragic helicopter accident on 08 Dec 21. The inquiry would be completed expeditiously & facts brought out. Till then, to respect the dignity of the deceased, uninformed speculation may be avoided," the Air Force said.In a fatal crash that took place at around 12 noon on Wednesday, CDS Bipin Rawat, his wife Madhulika Rawat and 11 defence staff, including the pilot of the copter, lost their lives.The reason for the chopper crash is not yet known. A tri-service inquiry, headed by Air Marshal Manvendra Singh, is going into the mishap. Defence minister Rajnath Singh in his statement in Parliament on Thursday said minutes before the copter was scheduled to reach its destination, the control room of the airbase from where it flew lost contact with the helicopter.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/offensive-posts-about-gen-rawat-s-chopper-crash-won-t-be-tolerated-karnataka-cm-101639130305959.html
10-12-2021||India||Govt initiates first-ever development of Indian footwear sizing system||The central government has initiated the first-ever development of the ‘Indian footwear sizing system’ to standardise the footwear size ranges required to cover the need of the local population, the ministry of commerce and industry said on Friday. The Department for Promotion of Industry and Internal Trade (DPIIT) in consultation with Central Leather Research Institute (CLRI), Chennai will define the proportions and rules of constructing shoe lasts required for providing well-fitting and healthy footwear.Since the present Indian Standard specification for sizing and fitting of footwear is based on the European and French Standards, it necessitates a revision to accommodate for demographic, anthropometric features of the Indian feet for more comfortable footwear. The ministry of commerce and industry said that the anatomy and functional requirements of footwear for children, juveniles and adults are “demography dependent”, adding that the design and development of correct footwear exclusively for the Indian population is necessary.“The project includes anthropometric survey, statistical analysis and development of an Indian foot sizing system and involves foot biomechanics and gait study, materials identification, lasts fabrication, development of design patterns and comfort parameters, wear trials, generation of specification,” the ministry stated.The DPIIT has approved ₹10.80 crore for the completion of the project which will require carrying out accurate measurements taking into consideration all the variations owing to region, gender, age, and health condition. The ministry said the project will lead towards the “indigenisation of key products” essential for the “realisation of an AatmaNirbhar Bharat.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/govt-initiates-first-ever-development-of-indian-footwear-sizing-system-101639129224368.html
10-12-2021||India||CDS General Bipin Rawat's school in Shimla to pay homage to him, arranges prayer meeting||The St Edward's School in Himachal Pradesh's Shimla where Chief of Defence Staff (CDS) General Bipin Rawat studied will pay homage to its alumnus on Friday. The institution has arranged a prayer meeting for the late general, news agency PTI reported.Furthermore, students and villagers of the Lahaul-Spiti district in Himachal Pradesh on Friday lit earthen lamps at the popular Triloknath temple in the region to pay tributes to CDS Rawat, his wife Madhulika Rawat, and 11 other Armed Forces personnel who lost their lives during the Indian Air Force (IAF) chopper crash in Tamil Nadu on December 8.The principal trustee of the temple, Bir Bahadur Singh Thakur, Lama priest Hishe Thakur along with students and teachers of the local government school also prayed for the speedy recovery of Group Captain Varun Singh, who is the lone survivor of the chopper crash. Singh is battling for life, and is currently admitted in Bengaluru's Command Hospital.The funeral procession of CDS Rawat has begun from his residence in Delhi to the Brar Square crematorium in Delhi Cantonment. The last rites will be conducted at the crematorium.Also Read | Top commanders of Bangladesh, Bhutan, Nepal and Lanka join CDS Rawat's final journeyThroughout the day, several political leaders, including defence minister Rajnath Singh, finance minister Nirmala Sitharaman, Congress leader Rahul Gandhi and NSA Ajit Doval, among others, paid their last respects to CDS Rawat and his wife at their home in Delhi. CDS Rawat and Madhulika's daughters also paid tributes to their parents.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/cds-general-bipin-rawat-s-school-in-shimla-to-pay-homage-to-him-arranged-prayer-101639128040605.html
10-12-2021||India||Top commanders of Bangladesh, Bhutan, Nepal and Lanka join CDS Rawat's final journey||Military commanders of Sri Lanka, Bhutan, Nepal and Bangladesh joined the final rites of India’s first chief of defence staff (CDS) General Bipin Rawat who was killed in a chopper crash in Tamil Nadu two days ago.Pakistan's defence advisor and naval advisor posted at its high commission also reportedly paid their last respects to General Rawat at his residence.Among the top officers of the neighbouring countries who took part in the CDS’ final journey were General Shavendra Silva, chief of defence staff and Commander of the Sri Lanka Army; brigadier Dorji Rinchen, deputy chief operations officer of the Royal Bhutan Army; Suprobal Janasewashree Lt General Bal Krishna Karki, chief of general staff, Nepali Army; and Lt General Waker-UZ-Zaman, principal staff officer of Bangladesh’s armed forces division.An ANI report said admiral Ravindra Chandrasiri Wijegunaratne (retired), former chief of defence staff of Sri Lanka, who too attended the final rites, was a course-mate of General Rawat at the National Defence College and a dear friend. The final rites would be performed at the Brar Square crematorium in Delhi Cantonment.Also read | Chopper crash: Brigadier Lidder laid to rest with full military honourGeneral Rawat, his wife Madhulika and 11 other military personnel were killed when an Indian Air Force (IAF) chopper crashed near Coonoor in Tamil Nadu on Wednesday.Earlier in the day, political leaders across the spectrum, senior ministers, three service chiefs of the military, clerics and envoys paid their tribute to the CDS at his residence in Delhi.His daughters, Kritika and Tarini, and a grandchild also paid their final respects.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/top-commanders-of-bangladesh-bhutan-nepal-and-lanka-join-cds-final-journey-101639128151632.html
10-12-2021||India||World needs to focus on ‘right to healthy environment, climate justice’: Kovind||Speaking on the occasion of the annual Human Rights Day, President Ram Nath Kovind on Friday underlined the fight against the climate crisis, saying it’s important for all of us to secure our “right to a healthy environment and climate justice”. The president, while addressing a gathering at an event organised by the National Human Rights Commission of India (NHRC), warned that degradation of nature is leading to changes in the climate that are irreversible.“On this day, the world should also debate and discuss the right to a healthy environment and climate justice,” Kovind said. “The degradation of nature is leading to irreversible changes in climate, and we are already witnessing its harmful impact. The world is waking up to the harsh reality, but it is yet to build the resolve to make decisive change.”Kovind said it is necessary to protect nature from the “worst effects of industrialisation” in order to make the world a better place for future generations.“Time is running out. I am glad that India has taken initiatives at home as well as at the recently held global climate conference [in Glasgow], which will go a long way in restoring the health of the planet. Especially commendable is India’s leadership in the International Solar Alliance and a series of measures to promote green energy,” he said.The president said the Human Rights Day is the ideal occasion for us to come together and find ways to overcome “prejudices” hindering humanity’s progress. Also Read: Kovind pays tribute to Shivaji Maharaj at Raigad Fort“While non-discrimination is the first condition for absolute respect for human dignity, the world is beset with countless prejudices. They, unfortunately, hinder the full realisation of individuals’ potential, and thus, are not in the interest of society as a whole. The Human Rights Day is the ideal occasion for us to ponder collectively and find ways to overcome such prejudices,” he said. Pointing to the impact of Covid-19, Kovind said that the pandemic has had a “disproportionately devastating impact on vulnerable sections of society”. “India, despite the obvious challenges, has been able to save millions of lives by adopting a policy of free and universal availability of [Covid-19] vaccines. With the biggest vaccination exercise in history, the government has been able to provide protection against the virus to nearly a billion people. I congratulate doctors, scientists and all other ‘corona warriors’ for their heroic efforts to uphold the people’s right to life and right to health,” he said.Kovind appreciated the NHRC for its efforts during the pandemic, underlining its “deep concern for the rights of the vulnerable and marginalised sections of society affected by the pandemic”.The theme of this year’s Human Rights Day is “equality”. Justice Arun Mishra, chairperson of the NHRC, said, “Equality is the essence of human rights. It requires upholding of justice and dignity in every wake of life.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/world-needs-to-focus-on-right-to-healthy-environment-climate-justice-kovind-101639127171585.html
10-12-2021||India||2 more Omicron cases reported in Gujarat, NRI's contacts test positive||Two more cases of Omicron have been confirmed in Gujarat's Jamnagar on Friday after two contacts of the NRI who was the first Omicron case of the state tested positive and the new variant was detected. The new cases take the state tally of Omicron cases to three while the country's tally stands at 25. No new Omicron cases were reported in the last two days in the country. All three Omicron patients in the state are stable and asymptomatic. Their treatment is going on in the hospital, municipal commissioner Vijaykumar Kharadi told news agency ANI.Gujarat's first Omicron case was reported in a 72-year-old Zimbabwe-based NRI who came to Jamnagar last week. Among his close contacts, his wife and brother-in-law tested positive for Covid and their samples were sent for genome sequencing. Other family members of the NRI man and other contacts have not tested positive.'Omicron may have higher reinfection risk, but': 10 things WHO's latest report revealsThe Union health ministry on Thursday informed a parliamentary panel that India has reported 23 cases of the new variant of SARS-CoV-2, first identified in South Africa and now spread to around 58 countries.Karnataka was the first state in India to have reported this new variant following which Maharashtra, Rajasthan, Gujarat, Delhi reported Omicron cases.Omicron is believed to be more transmissible than the Delta variant, the variant has not caused severe illness anywhere in the world. India's Omicron patients are on their way to recovery. According to reports, five out of seven Omicron cases detected in Pune have tested negative.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/2-more-omicron-cases-reported-in-gujarat-nri-s-contacts-test-positive-101639125836845.html
10-12-2021||India||MP govt implements commissionerate system for Bhopal and Indore||Madhya Pradesh government implemented a police commissionerate system in Bhopal and Indore on Thursday, officials said. MP home minister Narottam Mishra informed that the notification has been issued in this regard and two commissioners will be appointed in Bhopal and Indore, who will also have magisterial powers.“The ADG rank officers will be appointed as commissioners. Two officers of inspector general of police will be appointed as additional police commissioners and eight officers of superintendent of police ranks will be appointed as deputy commissioners,” said the minister.Now, the commissioner will have powers under Police Act 1861, Prisoners Act 1900, Immoral Traffic (Prevention) Act 1956, Unlawful Activities Prevention Act 1967, Poisons Act 1919, Motor Vehicles Act 1988, MP State Security Act 1990 and Official Secrets Act 1926. The list of officers will be released soon. The system was implemented nine years after the first announcement by chief minister Shivraj Singh Chouhan was made in 2012. Later, in 2014, then home minister Babulal Gaur announced that MP cities didn’t have enough population to have a commissioner system. The matter again came to light in 2016, when IPS officers association wrote a letter to the chief minister for the implementation of the system. A month ago, chief minister Shivraj Singh Chouhan announced that the system will be implemented this year itself. 
10-12-2021||India||‘86% of vaccine-eligible population given 1st dose’: Health minister tells Parl||Union health minister Mansukh Mandaviya said on Friday that 86 per cent of the country's population eligible for the Covid-19 vaccine has received its first dose and that the Centre wishes to inoculate everyone at the earliest.“India has performed very well when it comes to the administration of doses across the world,” Mandaviya said while addressing the Lok Sabha during the ongoing Winter Session of Parliament.“In the United States, 70 per cent of people have received the first dose. As many as 72 per cent have received the first dose in Germany and in France, the government has achieved 80 per cent first dose administration. While in Russia, the rate of first dose administration is at 46 per cent…” he added.Mandaviya added a total of 70 million vaccine doses are still lying with states and Union territories (UTs). The Union health minister also cautioned against possible vaccine hesitancy that might be triggered by claims of health complications after vaccination.In India, the vaccination coverage has exceeded 1.31 billion with over 7.45 million doses administered in the last 24 hours, the Union health ministry said on Friday morning.Replying to a question in the Lok Sabha about Omicron, health minister Mandaviya said studies are being conducted and only after they are completed, the effectiveness of vaccines against the latest variant of the coronavirus will be known, which was first discovered in South Africa last month.Till now, India has reported 23 cases of the Omicron variant with Maharashtra leading the tally. However, the cumulative count dropped to 14 after nine patients from Rajasthan tested negative for Covid-19 on Thursday. Globally, the cases of Omicron are more than 2,300.Amid the fears of an increased spread of the variant, the Directorate General of Civil Aviation (DGCA) on Thursday extended the suspension of scheduled international commercial passenger services till January 31 next year."This restriction shall not apply to international all-cargo operations and flight specifically approved by DGCA," the DGCA said in a circular.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/86-of-vaccine-eligible-population-given-1st-dose-health-minister-tells-parl-101639122755940.html
10-12-2021||India||Para-sports given ‘priority’ for financial assistance, Centre tells Parliament||The Ministry of Youth Affairs and Sports informed the Rajya Sabha on Thursday that the government has placed para-sports in the ‘priority’ category for financial assistance and all necessary assistance is provided for training and competitive exposure.Speaking about the Khelo India Scheme and Assistance to National Sports Federations, Youth Affairs and Sports minister Anurag Thakur said, “One of the verticals of the Khelo India Scheme, namely “Promotion of Sports among Persons with Disabilities” is specifically dedicated to the differently-abled sportsperson.He added, “Further, under the Scheme of Assistance to National Sports Federations, funds are allocated for conducting national coaching camps, foreign exposures, national championships, purchase of equipment, salary of coaches and sports staff, etc. for para-athletes of the country.”In response to Bharatiya Janata Party MP Brij Lal’s question, Thakur also listed the other schemes that have been created for the development of sports in the country, especially for differently-abled sportspersons. These include- Special Awards to Winners in International Sports Events and their coaches; National Sports Awards; Pension to Meritorious Sportspersons; Pandit Deendayal Upadhyay National Sports Welfare Fund; National Sports Development Fund; and Running Sports training Centers through Sports Authority of India.The Ministry added para-athletes are provided with all requisite facilities at par with other sportspersons, besides their special needs.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/parasports-given-priority-for-financial-assistance-centre-tells-parliament-101639124051674.html
10-12-2021||India||IAF says uninformed speculation on chopper crash may be avoided, tri-service inquiry underway||The Indian Air Force (IAF) on Friday called for avoiding “uninformed speculation” over the chopper crash that led to the deaths of chief of defence staff (CDS) General Bipin Rawat, his wife Madhulika and 11 others. Issuing a statement on Twitter, the IAF said a tri-service Court of Inquiry was constituted to investigate the cause of the accident.It said the inquiry would be completed expeditiously and facts brought out, adding until then the dignity of the deceased need to be respected.“IAF has constituted a tri-service Court of Inquiry to investigate the cause of the tragic helicopter accident on 08 Dec 21. The inquiry would be completed expeditiously & facts brought out. Till then, to respect the dignity of the deceased, uninformed speculation may be avoided,” the IAF said in its official Twitter handle.On Thursday, defence minister Rajnath Singh told Parliament the tri-service inquiry will be headed by Air Marshal Manvendra Singh, Air Officer Commanding-in-Chief Training Command.#TamilNaduChopperCrash | Teams of IAF & local Police investigate the site of the crash at Nanjappa Chatram village in Coonoor.The mishap occurred on 8th Dec and claimed 13 lives, including that of CDS Gen Bipin Rawat, his wife Madhulika Rawat & other 11 Armed Forces personnel. pic.twitter.com/cCKHpR6pJcNews agency ANI shared images of teams of IAF and local police personnel investigating the site of the crash at Nanjappa Chatram village in Tamil Nadu's Coonoor.Also read | Politicians, clerics, envoys pay last respects to Gen Rawat ahead of funeralThe Opposition had called off its sit-in dharna against the suspension of the 12 Rajya Sabha MPs during the day as a mark of respect towards the chopper crash deaths in Tamil Nadu.Both Houses of the Parliament observed two-minute silence over the demise of General Rawat and others.Meanwhile, the politicians cutting across party lines, religious leaders, envoys and security personnel of varying ranks paid their last respects to India's first CDS and his wife at their residence. Earlier in the day, Brigadier Lakhbinder Singh Lidder, who was among those who died in the crash on Wednesday afternoon, was laid to rest with full military honour.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/iaf-says-uninformed-speculation-on-chopper-crash-may-be-avoided-probe-underway-101639121998584.html
10-12-2021||India||3 UK returnees test positive for Covid-19 at Goa airport, isolated||Three passengers, including a British national of Goan-origin, who arrived at the international airport near here on a flight from the United Kingdom on early Friday, tested positive for Covid-19, state Health Minister Vishwajit Rane said.Rane said the three passengers have been shifted to an isolation facility in South Goa, while all other travellers on the flight who tested negative will be kept in strict home quarantine for eight days before undergoing another test at the end of it. The health minister tweeted, “This is with reference to flight AI 146 that arrived from the UK today morning. 237 travellers tested on arrival. 3 patients (passengers) have been tested positive.”The UK is among a group of countries placed in the 'at-risk' category by the central government in view of the recent detection of the Omicron variant of coronavirus. Passengers from these countries have to follow additional Covid-19 testing and quarantine measures.“All other negative travellers will be kept in strict home quarantine and will be retested on day 8 or earlier if symptomatic. According to the Government of India Guidelines/Protocols, necessary directions have been issued to DHS (Directorate of Health Services) in this regard,” Rane said in another tweet. Earlier in the day, the minister said a 41-year-old British national of Goan origin tested positive for Covid-19 on arrival from the UK.Rane tweeted, “A 41-year-old British national of Goan origin tested positive today morning at the airport. The patient has been isolated at PHC-Cansaulim.” Health authorities have isolated the man, whose test at the airport in Dabolim returned positive for Covid-19, at a government-run healthcare facility in Cansaulim. Airport officials said the passenger was on board the 98th Vande Bharat Mission (VBM) flight that arrived at the Goa airport during the wee hours.Details about the other two passengers who have tested positive for coronavirus were not available.The Goa airport tweeted, “Goa Airport has ramped up the infrastructure reqd for post-arrival testing of Int'l arriving passengers. Sufficient Registration counters, swab collection centres, waiting areas are provided for smooth management, safety, and convenience of pax.”In another tweet, it said, “98th in the series of VBM flight arrived from London-Heathrow today early morning at Goa International Airport. Arriving passengers undergoing thermal screening and completing mandatory formalities upon arrival.”The VBM is a central government initiative to bring back Indians stranded abroad due to the coronavirus pandemic and the resultant travel curbs. Authorities in Goa have already isolated five crew members of a merchant navy ship who had tested positive for Covid-19.Their swab samples have been sent to the Pune-based National Institute of Virology for genome sequencing and reports are awaited.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/3-uk-returnees-test-positive-for-covid-19-at-goa-airport-isolated-101639120959866.html
10-12-2021||India||Politicians, clerics, envoys pay last respects to General Bipin Rawat ahead of funeral||Politicians cutting across party lines, religious leaders, envoys and security personnel of varying ranks on Friday paid their last respects to India's first Chief of Defence Staff (CDS) General Bipin Rawat and his wife Madhulika Rawat, who were among the 13 people who lost their lives in an air accident in Tamil Nadu's Coonnor this week.Also Read | Gen Rawat fought China on border and corruption within militaryThe last rites of Gen Rawat will be performed with full military honours later in the day, according to people familiar with the matter.The bodies of General Rawat and his wife were kept at their 3, Kamaraj Marg residence in New Delhi as people paid their final tributes.A host of politicians — from senior leaders of the Congress to Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) functionaries, chief ministers of several states, Union ministers, and political leaders from the southern part of India — all lined up at Kamaraj Marg to pay their last respects to the late general.Delhi | Congress' senior leader Harish Singh Rawat pays tribute to CDS Gen Bipin Rawat. He also paid last respects to CDS Gen Bipin Rawat's wife Madhulika Rawat pic.twitter.com/D0OkoQT5SuDelhi | Congress' senior leader Harish Singh Rawat pays tribute to CDS Gen Bipin Rawat. He also paid last respects to CDS Gen Bipin Rawat's wife Madhulika Rawat pic.twitter.com/D0OkoQT5SuDelhi Lt Governor Anil Baijal pays his last respects to #CDSGeneralBipinRawat and his wife Madhulika Rawat, at their residence. pic.twitter.com/o7eGkp20GpCongress leader Rahul Gandhi pays tributes to CDS General Bipin Rawat, his wife Madhulika Rawat who lost their lives in the IAF chopper crash on Wednesday pic.twitter.com/ZjloO9gPgmCongress' senior leader Mallikarjun Kharge and former Defence Minister AK Antony paid tribute to CDS General Bipin Rawat and his wife Madhulika Rawat who lost their lives in the IAF chopper crash on Wednesday pic.twitter.com/LOxKsqZmgOSeveral religious leaders were also present at the residence of the late General Bipin Rawat to hold multi-faith prayers, as were French envoy Emmanuel Lenain and Israeli ambassador Naor Gilon.French & Israel envoys to India, Emmanuel Lenian and Naor Gilon (respectively) paid floral tribute to CDS Gen Bipin Rawat and his wife Madhulika Rawat who lost their lives in the IAF chopper crash on Wednesday pic.twitter.com/Y18hv39UkUDelhi: Religious leaders hold multi-faith prayers as they pay their last respects to #CDSGeneralBipinRawat and his wife Madhulika Rawat. pic.twitter.com/GSydKvadz6The late CDS Gen Rawat's funeral is scheduled for 4pm, as per officials familiar with the day's plans. The final journey to the Brar Square crematorium is scheduled to begin around 2pm onwards. His funeral procession will start from the K Kamaraj Road and proceed towards Rajaji Road, Teen Murti, 11 Murti, Sardar Patel Road, and then from Dhaula Kuan, it will move towards Brar Square via the Narayana Route.Also Read | Chopper crash severity making positive identification of mortal remains difficult: ArmyA total of 12 officers the from army, the navy, and the air force, of the rank of a brigadier and equivalent, are on Vigil Duty to maintain continuous vigil over the mortal remains while they are laid in state.Six officers — two each from the army, the navy, and the air force — of the rank of lieutenant general or equivalent will be the national flag bearers. A ceremonial battery of the 2233 Field Regiment will be providing gun carriage. As many as 99 personnel from all ranks of the armed forces and 33 members of the tri-services band will form the front escort, while 99 personnel of all ranks from the three services will act as the rear escort.A total of 800 service personnel will be in attendance for the military funeral of the CDS.According to Indian Army officials, the late CDS is being accorded a 17 gun salute as per protocol.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/politicians-clerics-envoys-pay-last-respects-to-general-bipin-rawat-ahead-of-funeral-101639116851690.html
10-12-2021||India||News updates from HT: Brigadier Lidder laid to rest with full state honour and all the latest news||Here are today-’s top news, analysis and opinion. Know all about the latest news and other news updates from Hindustan Times.Chopper crash: Brigadier Lidder laid to rest with full military honourBrigadier Lakhbinder Singh Lidder, who died in a chopper crash two days ago, was laid to rest with full military honour on Friday. Defence minister Rajnath Singh, the three service chiefs of the Army, Navy and Air Force -- General MM Naravane, Admiral R Hari Kumar and Air Chief Marshal VR Chaudhari -- paid their tribute to the brigadier at Brar Square, Delhi Cantonment. His wife and daughter also paid their last respects. Read moreSpecial chartered flight from Kabul to land in Delhi with Afghan Sikhs, Hindus & Indians todayA special chartered flight from Kabul will land in Delhi with more than 100 people, mostly Afghan Sikhs and Hindus and a few Indian nationals, on Friday. Read moreRailways to introduce hostesses on premium trains on lines of flight attendantsThe next time you travel by train, do not be surprised if you find a woman attendant or a stewardess directing you to your seat or making necessary arrangements for passenger safety and comfort on similar lines of what we see air hostesses and cabin crew going about their work aboard an aircraft. Read moreVirat Kohli captaincy controversy: A detailed timeline of how events unfolded for the former India ODI and T20I skipperOne of the most successful captains in the history of Indian cricket, Virat Kohli on Wednesday was removed from the ODI captaincy as Rohit Sharma was assigned the ODI leadership, with the BCCI undergoing a major limited-overs revamp ahead of the South Africa tour. Read moreKatrina Kaif, in a suit and red bangles, leaves with husband Vicky Kaushal for Jaipur airport in helicopter. WatchActors Katrina Kaif and Vicky Kaushal who tied the knot on December 9 in Rajasthan, were spotted leaving Sawai Madhopur for Jaipur airport on December 10. Read more||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/news-updates-from-ht-brigadier-lidder-laid-to-rest-with-full-state-honour-and-all-the-latest-news-101639120395773.html
10-12-2021||India||‘Farmers’ stir shows Centre shouldn’t get into state subjects’: Former agri secy||Former agricultural secretary Siraj Hussain said that the repeal of farm laws is a nudge for the central government to leave the subjects in the state list to state governments.In an interview with HT, the former agriculture secretary said, “I think the repeal of farm laws reinforces the need for wider consultation and leaving subjects in state list to state governments.”He added that there is a need to refer all important legislations to standing committees of departments so that the bills are scrutinised impartially.While talking about the reason behind the never-ending momentum of the farmers’ protest, which began a year ago, Hussain said that even though the farmers of Punjab, Haryana and Uttar Pradesh were spearheading the movement, farmers from all across the country identified with the demands and goals of the movement.He said this was the first time that the farmers’ movement engaged with farmers from across India and the governments “surely assessed” the impact of such a widespread movement ahead of elections in 2022. Seven states – Uttar Pradesh, Punjab, Gujarat, Uttarakhand, Himachal Pradesh, Goa and Manipur- are heading to polling booths next year, out of which two, UP and Punjab, are agrarian states.Hussain said that the protest against the Citizenship (Amendment) Act, which began in December 2019, could not pressurise the government in a way that the farmers’ protest did because the CAA-NRC movement was affected by the Covid-19 pandemic. He further reasoned that the right-wing Bharatiya Janata Party-led government projected it as a movement by the Muslim community.He noted that even during the farmers’ movement, sections of social media users attempted to portray the movement as sponsored by “Khalistanis” but failed.The Former agricultural secretary noted that the economic ramifications of the repeal of the farm laws cannot be ascertained as there is no decision of providing a legal guarantee to Minimum Support Price (MSP). Legal guarantee to MSP, which has been a bone of contention between the farmers and the government, will be discussed in a new committee with representatives from both sides.On Thursday, the Samkyukt Kisan Morcha (SKM), the umbrella body of 40 farm unions, announced that it has accepted the Centre’s proposal to resolve the pending demands and called off the year-long agitation against the three farm laws. Farmers who have been protesting on Delhi borders will be heading home on Saturday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/farmers-stir-shows-centre-shouldn-t-get-into-state-subjects-former-agri-secy-101639120991457.html
10-12-2021||India||Must give him a smiling send-off: Brigadier Lakhbinder Singh Lidder’s wife||The wife and daughter of Brigadier Lakhbinder Singh Lidder on Friday paid a tearful farewell to the officer, who was killed in the military helicopter crash in Tamil Nadu's Coonoor along with Chief of Defence Staff Bipin Rawat and 12 others.“We must give him a good farewell, a smiling send-off. I am a soldier's wife. I have nothing more to say. It's a big loss,” Geetika Lidder said after the brigadier was cremated with full military honours at Brar Square crematorium in Delhi Cantonment on Friday.Visuals from the crematorium showed Geetika Lidder and his daughter, Aashna Lidder, breaking down while paying their last respects to him. The late brigadier's wife was seen in tears kneeling by the head of her husband's coffin draped with the national flag and decked with flowers.Also watch | Kisses, tears: How Brigadier LS Lidder's wife, daughter bid him last farewell 
10-12-2021||India||Special charter flight from Kabul to New Delhi to evacuate more than 100 people||A special charter flight from Kabul to New Delhi on Friday will evacuate more than 100 people, most of them Afghan Sikhs and Hindus, and take back Afghan nationals stranded in India and medical supplies. A few Indian nationals are also expected to be in the group being evacuated from Kabul, people familiar with the matter said on condition of anonymity. Indian authorities and the Afghan embassy in New Delhi worked discreetly over the past few weeks to arrange the charter flight. A video posted on social media showed a Sikh man, who was among the Afghan Sikhs and Hindus being evacuated, saying that they were taking the flight after waiting for almost three months. The man said 102 Afghan Sikhs and Hindus were being evacuated to New Delhi. The group, which includes women and children, will bring with it three Guru Granth Sahibs and Hindu religious texts from the ancient Asamai Mandir in Kabul. The charter flight will take back close to 90 Afghan nationals. Most of them had come to India for medical treatment and were stranded after the Taliban takeover of Afghanistan. It is also expected to carry medical supplies that are part of the humanitarian aid offered by India to Afghanistan, the people said. There was no official word on the development from the Indian side. The last commercial flight from the Indian side on the Kabul-Delhi route was operated by Air India on August 15, the day Kabul fell to the Taliban. Hundreds of Indian nationals, including diplomats and security personnel, were evacuated on special Indian Air Force flights during August. India also withdrew its ambassador and all other staff from the mission in Kabul – effectively closing the embassy for the second time since 1996. However, scores of Indian nationals were still in Afghanistan after all evacuation flights were stopped because of security concerns, which were heightened after the devastating suicide attack at the Kabul airport on August 26 that killed more than 180 people. The people cited above said many of these Indians subsequently left Afghanistan via land routes and travelled to Iran and Central Asian states. It is believed that a little more than a dozen Indians were stranded in Afghanistan and wanted to come back. More charter flights could be arranged to bring back people from Kabul and send back hundreds of Afghans still stranded in India, the people said.Four special flights were recently arranged to take Afghan nationals stranded in India to Kabul via Tehran, but this arrangement was subsequently suspended as the cost was too high. Each traveller paid almost $850 for the trip - and most of the Afghans couldn’t afford the fare.
10-12-2021||India||Special chartered flight from Kabul to land in Delhi with Afghan Sikhs, Hindus & Indians today||A special chartered flight from Kabul will land in Delhi with more than 100 people, mostly Afghan Sikhs and Hindus and a few Indian nationals, on Friday.The Afghans are bringing back some Sikh and Hindu holy books from an old gurdwara and a Hindu temple in Kabul. The flight, chartered by the government of India, will take back about 90 Afghan nationals and medicines from India.A statement from the India World Forum said three Guru Granth Sahib and Hindu scriptures including from the Ramanaya, Mahabharat and Bhagavad Gita from the ancient Fifth Century Asamai Mandir in Kabul are being flown to India.The forum further said the Afghan nationals will be rehabilitated by the Sobti Foundation."The family of Mahram Ali, a local security guard who was killed during the terror attack in Gurdwara Guru Har Rai, Shor Bazar, Kabul is also being airlifted and will be rehabilitated by Sobti Foundation," the statement read.The Guru Granth Sahib will be taken to Gurdwara Guru Arjan Dev Ji, Mahavir Nagar and the Hindu religious scriptures will be kept at the Asamai Mandir in Faridabad.Since August, India has evacuated over 500 stranded individuals from Afghanistan when Kabul was taken over by Taliban fighters.Minister of state for external affairs V Muraleedharan told Parliament last week ministry officials were in contact with the Indians left behind.(With inputs from bureau and agencies)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/flight-from-kabul-to-land-in-delhi-with-afghan-sikhs-hindus-indians-today-101639117168637.html
10-12-2021||India||Chopper crash: Brigadier Lidder laid to rest with full military honours||Brigadier Lakhbinder Singh Lidder, who died in a chopper crash two days ago, was laid to rest with full military honour on Friday.Defence minister Rajnath Singh, the three service chiefs of the Army, Navy and Air Force -- General MM Naravane, Admiral R Hari Kumar and Air Chief Marshal VR Chaudhari -- paid their tribute to the brigadier at Brar Square, Delhi Cantonment. His wife and daughter also paid their last respects.Among others, national security advisor Ajit Doval and Haryana chief minister Manohar Lal Khatter also paid their tribute to Brigadier Lidder.The Army said the mortal remains of only three persons -- General Rawat, his wife Madhulika Rawat and Brigadier Lidder -- had been positively identified so far.Also read | Counterterror specialist among victims of Coonoor crashThe bodies of all the 13 victims were flown from Sulur near Coimbatore to the Palam air base on Thursday evening in caskets wrapped in the Tricolour.Group Captain Varun Singh, the lone survivor in the crash, is fighting for his life at a military hospital in Bengaluru.Prime Minister Narendra Modi was among those who paid their last respects at the Palam air base.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/chopper-crash-brigadier-lidder-laid-to-rest-with-full-military-honour-101639115898174.html
10-12-2021||India||Railways to introduce hostesses on premium trains on lines of flight attendants||The next time you travel by train, do not be surprised if you find a woman attendant or a stewardess directing you to your seat or making necessary arrangements for passenger safety and comfort on similar lines of what we see air hostesses and cabin crew going about their work aboard an aircraft.According to HT's sister publication, Livemint, the Indian Railways is soon set to introduce such ‘train hostesses’ on its premium line of coaches – such as the Vande Bharat Express, the Gatimaan Express, and the Tejas Express. The attendants, however, shall not be serving long-distance trains such as Rajdhani Express or Duronto Express.In an interview with the publication, a senior official of the Indian Railways said just like airlines, here too, the train attendants shall not consist of an all-female crew. However, the women who are appointed for the new post are required to be trained in the field of hospitality service, since they will need to provide such services as greeting those onboard, serving food, and taking care of complaints of passengers travelling in the premium trains of the Indian Railways.The decision was taken as part of the Railways' ongoing drive to modernise the experience of train travel and provide better passenger facilities as an incentive to generate more footfall. The train attendants shall match the hospitality standards of those seen in flights to compete with airlines' services, the official told the publication, adding that the hostesses will be working only during the daytime and would not be inducted into overnight services.The Indian Railways currently runs around 25 premium trains on track, including the Shatabdi Express, the Gatimaan Express, one Tejas Express, and two Vande Bharat trains. These trains shall also serve freshly cooked food instead of packaged products, another significant step introduced by the Railways recently to better passenger welfare. An order, issued in this regard to all departments concerned and stakeholders, said the matter has been examined and it has been decided to resume cooked food in trains.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/railways-to-introduce-hostesses-on-premium-trains-on-lines-of-flight-attendants-101639112659744.html
10-12-2021||India||Lok Sabha likely to pass Narcotic Drugs and Psychotropic Substances (Amendment) Bill today||Union finance minister Nirmala Sitharaman will move the Narcotic Drugs and Psychotropic Substances (Amendment) Bill, 2021 for consideration and passing in Lok Sabha on Friday.The Bill was introduced in the Lower House on Monday. The Ordinance amends the 1985 NDPS Act which regulates the manufacture, transport and consumption of narcotic drugs and psychotropic substances. The Ordinance corrects a drafting error made in a previous Amendment. In 2014, the Act was amended and the clause number of the definition for such illicit activities was changed. However, the section on penalty for financing these illicit activities was not amended and continued to refer to the earlier clause number of the definition. The Ordinance amends the section on the penalty to change the reference to the new clause number.As many as 20 leaders from the Opposition parties are scheduled to move a resolution against the Bill. Leaders opposing the Bill include Congress’s Adhir Ranjan Chowdhary, Trinamool Congress’s Saugata Roy and Biju Janata Dal’s Bhartruhari Mahtab.Five leaders including Congress’ Shashi Tharoor and BJP’s Janardan Singh ‘Sigriwal’ will move resolutions during Private Members’ Business time.Reports from various parliamentary standing committees including Home Affairs, Personnel, Public Grievances, Law and Justice and Petitions will also be tabled in both the Houses on Friday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/lok-sabha-likely-to-pass-narcotic-drugs-and-psychotropic-substances-amendment-bill-today-101639114929385.html
10-12-2021||India||India sees 8,503 new Covid infections; active cases lowest since March last year||India on Friday saw a reduction in its daily tally of coronavirus disease (Covid-19) after 8,503 new infections were recorded in the last 24 hours, taking the caseload to 34,674,744, according to the Union ministry of health and family welfare.There were 9,419 cases of Covid-19 on Thursday.Active cases of Covid-19 saw a slight increase of 201 in the last 24 hours and now stand at 94,943. "Active cases account for less than 1% of total cases, currently at 0.27%; Lowest since March 2020," the ministry said in a release.As many as 7,678 patients recovered from Covid-19 in the last 24 hours and the total count of recoveries has climbed to 34,105,066, the updated data showed. The overall Covid-19 recovery rate is at 98.36 per cent, the Union health ministry also said on Friday.The country recorded 624 deaths due to Covid-19 in the same period. Of these, 225 deaths are from Kerala, which continues to remain one of the worst-hit states by the coronavirus pandemic.According to the state health department's release, the 225 fatalities in Kerala include 52 deaths which were recorded in the last 24 hours, and the remaining 173 were designated as deaths due to coronavirus disease after receiving appeals based on the new guidelines of the Centre and the directions of the Supreme Court.The southern state, for the past few weeks, has been adding a backlog of Covid-19 related deaths to the country's total fatality count. The overall cases in Kerala are at 5,171,232 including 42,239 deaths, 40,546 active cases and nearly 5.1 million discharges.The Union health ministry said on Friday India's vaccination coverage has exceeded 1.31 billion with over 7.45 million doses administered to those eligible in the last 24 hours. Of the total doses, as many as 809,809,983 people have received the first dose and the remaining 502,077,274 are fully vaccinated against Covid-19.Cases of the Omicron variant of the coronavirus in India have dropped to 14 from 23 after nine patients from Rajasthan’s Jaipur tested negative for Covid-19 on Thursday. These patients were discharged from the RUHS Hospital in Jaipur.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/india-sees-8-503-new-covid-infections-active-cases-lowest-since-march-last-year-101639109683698.html
10-12-2021||India||Gen Rawat fought China on border and corruption within military||Even as General Bipin Rawat stood up to the aggressive Chinese at Doklam plateau and Ladakh, he will be also remembered for initiating a war against corruption within the military establishment as he used to often say that Indian armed forces were all about respect, not money.As India’s first Chief of Defence Staff, he pushed the Indian Army to ask the CBI to inquire about alleged corruption in the sub-standard construction of married accommodation project (MAP) in Meerut and the Salaria Officers’ Enclave in Delhi by Military Engineering Services (MES). The total sanctioned cost of MAP phase I and II was ₹6,033 crore and ₹13,682 crore. He berated the MES top officials for shoddy construction and told them that Salaria Enclave resembled bombed-out Syria not New Delhi with sub-standard material being used for officers and jawans accommodation.As the army chief, he initiated major reforms in military canteen purchases, much to the anger of the retired generals, by putting a cap of ₹12 lakh on the purchase of cars. When he found that senior military officers were saving precious excise and buying luxury cars like Mercedes and SUVs and top-brand single malt whiskies through the canteen route, he removed these items from the canteen list saying that a normal officer or jawan cannot afford these with the existing salaries. The veterans hated him for putting a cap and only allowing Indian made foreign liquor to be sold in canteens, but General Rawat told them that if they have so much money, they should buy the Mercedes or Blue Label whiskey from the open market and not dent the Indian exchequer. For the jawans, he ensured that sub-standard products did not find their way into the military canteen through the grease route.Another area where he fought against his own peer group was the misuse of disability pension particularly by senior officers of the three services. Keeping his then defence minister Nirmala Sitharaman in the know, General Rawat found that senior officers were deliberately lowering their medical category before retirement to only not get disability benefits for themselves and their children but also tax-free pension. He found in many cases, a general or an air marshal or an admiral was getting more pension than his salary by using the disability pension route. While he was all for the support to the genuine disabled who lost their limbs in war or insurgency, he was totally against misuse of disability pension. It is perhaps for this very reason that Gen Rawat never claimed disability pension despite having a steel rod fitted inside his ankle due to a serious injury during an operation on the LoC in Kashmir.Today, General Rawat passes into history, but the reforms he initiated within the military to make them more accountable cannot be stopped as it is the need of the hour.
10-12-2021||India||News updates from HT: President Kovind to address NHRC event in Delhi and all the latest news||Here are today-’s top news, analysis and opinion. Know all about the latest news and other news updates from Hindustan Times.Human Rights Day 2021: President Kovind to address NHRC event in New DelhiMarking the occasion of Human Rights Day 2021, President Ram Nath Kovind will on Friday address a programme organised by the National Human Rights Commission (NHRC) in New Delhi. Read MoreGeneral Bipin Rawat's funeral today, India to pay final respects to first CDSThe funeral of India's first Chief of Defence Staff (CDS) General Bipin Rawat, who lost his life in a tragic air accident this week, will be held on Friday, according to people familiar with the matter. Read More53 migrants killed, dozens injured in Mexico truck accident: ReportA cargo truck jammed with people who appeared to be Central American migrants rolled over and crashed into a pedestrian bridge over on a highway in southern Mexico on Thursday, killing at least 53 people and injuring nearly five dozen others, authorities reported. Read More'They are brilliant': Ravi Shastri names 3 India youngsters who come in ‘far more experienced than previous generations’In Ravi Shastri's tenure as India coach, not only did India play a dominant brand of cricket, but also produced equally fearless cricketers who have what it takes to carry Indian cricket forward into the next era. Read MoreAnushka Sharma confirms Katrina Kaif and Vicky Kaushal will be her new neighbours, hopes construction noises end soonActor Anushka Sharma has congratulated the newly-wed couple, actors Katrina Kaif and Vicky Kaushal and also confirmed that they will be her new neighbours. Read More Watch: What PM Modi said at Summit for Democracy hosted by Biden||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/news-updates-from-ht-president-kovind-to-address-nhrc-event-in-delhi-and-all-the-latest-news-101639103927029.html
10-12-2021||India||Ready to work to strengthen democratic values globally: PM Modi||Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Friday reaffirmed India’s support to strengthen democratic values globally, as he participated in the 'Summit for Democracy,' hosted by the United States."Happy to have participated in the Summit for Democracy at the invitation of US President Biden," PM Modi wrote on Twitter. "As the world's largest democracy, India stands ready to work with our partners to strengthen democratic values globally, including in multilateral fora," the Prime Minister added.PM Modi will deliver India's national statement on Friday, which will be open to all.Leaders of more than 80 countries participated in the closed-door virtual 'Summit for Democracy' on Thursday via video conferencing. The summit, called by US President Joe Biden, focused on challenges confronting democracies, including corruption, inequality, and limitations on press freedom, across the world. Besides India, world leaders from France, Canada, Brazil, Argentina, Uruguay, Japan, Israel and the Philippines, attended the summit.It also saw the participation of representatives of NGOs, private businesses, philanthropical organisations and legislatures.News agency ANI cited people familiar with the matter that PM Modi said the democratic spirit, including respect for rule of law and pluralistic ethos, is ingrained in Indians.PM Modi also emphasised the need for democratic countries to deliver on values enshrined in their constitutions. He also outlined sensitivity, accountability, participation and reform orientation as four pillars of Indian democratic governance.The Prime Minister, according to ANI, stressed principles of democracy should also guide global governance and that given technology's ability to impact democracy positively or negatively, technology companies should contribute to preserving open and democratic societies.During the summit, PM Modi called for contribution from technology firms in preserving democratic societies and said it has the ability to impact democracy "positively or negatively."Biden in his opening remarks called on world leaders to end the "backward slide" of democracy around the globe. “Will we allow the backward slide of rights and democracy to continue unchecked? Or will we together -- together -- have a vision ... and courage to once more lead the march of human progress and human freedom forward?" he asked.Without naming China or Russia by name, Biden also repeatedly made a case that the US and like-minded allies need to show the world that democracies are a far better vehicle for societies than autocracies.Both Russia and China were not invited to the summit. In response to being left out, the ambassadors to the US from China and Russia wrote a joint essay describing the Biden administration as exhibiting a “Cold-War mentality” that will “stoke up ideological confrontation and a rift in the world.”Pakistan's Prime Minister Imran Khan was also absent from the event.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/ready-to-work-to-strengthen-democratic-values-globally-pm-modi-101639107320431.html
10-12-2021||India||Barrages on upper reaches of Mahanadi by Chhattisgarh has choked inflow to Odisha, alleges minister||Chhattisgarh has constructed around 516 barrages in the upper catchment areas of Mahanadi river resulting in the reduction of water inflow to the river by 37 per cent between 2005 and 2016 in the non-monsoon period, the Odisha government told the assembly on Thursday.Replying to a question raised by Congress MLA Tara Prasad Bahinipati in Odisha Assembly, water resources minister Raghunandan Das said the inflow of Mahanadi river water into Hirakud reservoir has significantly dropped during the non-monsoon season due to the construction of barrages by Chhattisgarh.“While Hirakud reservoir has a requirement of 2 million acre-feet water during non-monsoon period, the water inflow dropped by around 4 per cent from 1991-21 to 2004-05 and by 37% from 2005-06 to 2015-16. In 2016-17, 2017-18 and 2018-19 flow of water during the non-monsoon period reduced by 65%, 61 % and 57% respectively. However, in 2019-20, the reduction in the flow of water was just 3%,” Das said. Incidentally, 61 of the 66 gates of Chhattisgarh’s Kalma barrage, situated along the border of Jharsuguda district, have been shut this winter resulting in an inflow of just 5100 cusecs of water to Hirakud reservoir.The river, which runs through at least 20 of Odisha’s 30 districts, fuels Odisha’s economy and agriculture as over 60% of the state’s 4.2 crore population depends on it. After a 25-km long earthen dam was constructed across the river at Hirakud area of Sambalpur district in 1953, the dammed water irrigates over 2.35 lakh hectares of cropland and generated 347.5 megawatts of hydropower for the state. Besides, six biodiversity hotspots in Odisha – including the Bhitarkanika wildlife sanctuary, Chilika lake, Tikarpada sanctuary and Chandaka elephant reserve – directly depend on the river.Since 2016, Odisha and Chhatisgarh are locked in a bitter dispute over the former alleging reduction in water quantity in non-monsoon months by the construction of 6 industrial barrages - Kalma, Saradi, Basantpur, Mirauni, Sheorinarayan and Samoda, four of which have been completed - by the latter.In March 2018, the Centre constituted the Mahanadi Water Disputes tribunal under the Inter-State River Water Disputes Act-1956 to adjudicate the water dispute between Odisha and Chhatisgarh after the Supreme Court directed the Centre to form a tribunal. The three-member tribunal, headed by justice AM Khanwilkar with justice Ravi Ranjan and Justice Indermit Kaur as its member, has been tasked with the job to determine water sharing among basin states on the basis of the overall availability of water in the complete Mahanadi basin, contribution and present utilisation of water resources in each state and the potential for future development.Though 21 meetings of the tribunal over the dispute have happened since its formation including its last meeting in September this year, they have failed to yield any result. “The common information format for sharing of information between states is yet to be finalised. The format is important as it deals with 61 subjects related to the dispute,” said Sudarshan Das, convenor of Mahanadi Bachao Andolan, a civil society initiative of Odisha on the Mahanadi water dispute.Das said the tribunal has so far been lacklustre as the hope of an interim order stopping any further construction on upper reaches of Mahanadi by Chhatisgarh has not happened. “Though the tenure of Mahanadi Water Disputes Tribunal has been extended up to March 11 2023, the dispute resolution is not going the right way. The central authorities like the CWC and the CGWA have not been very proactive. Political parties of Odisha including the BJD, the BJP and the Congress have also not been very vociferous in demanding a quicker and meaningful resolution that would ensure the lower reaches of Mahandi don’t run dry in non-monsoon months,” said Das.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/barrages-on-upper-reaches-of-mahanadi-by-chhatisgarh-has-choked-inflow-to-odisha-alleges-minister-101639106569860.html
10-12-2021||India||PAC recommends review of DPRs of all new housing projects for govt employees||The Public Accounts Committee (PAC) has recommended a review of the detailed project reports (DPRs) of all ongoing housing projects for government employees in New Delhi. It also highlighted a stock shortage in the general pool residential accommodation (GPRA) and delays in the completion of various redevelopment projects in the Capital.The parliamentary panel said the delays in redevelopment projects were caused by “lack of proper planning by the housing and urban affairs ministry”.In its report presented on Wednesday in the Lok Sabha on the functioning of the directorate of estates - which comes under the housing and urban affairs ministry - the parliamentary panel observed that several redevelopment projects for government accommodation were delayed.The delays, the panel said, were taking place because of a hold-up in the shifting of utilities; relocation of schools, community centres and dispensaries; obtaining approval from Delhi’s forest department and other agencies for replantation of trees; and multiple public interest litigations (PILs).“The committee feels that due to lack of proper planning on the part of the ministry, there has been an impasse,” the PAC report says. The panel recommended that preparatory work for relocation and shifting should take place simultaneously to ensure timely completion of the projects.“The committee, therefore, recommends that the DPRs of all the projects be reviewed, specific time frames prescribed for each task be carried out, and appropriate measures be taken urgently for expediting all necessary approvals,” the PAC said. To provide housing to its employees, the Centre is carrying out the redevelopment of seven government residential colonies in south Delhi - in Sarojini Nagar, Nauroji Nagar, Srinivaspuri, Kasturba Nagar, Netaji Nagar, Mohammadpur and Thyagraj Nagar. Close to 25,000 housing units along with a mega commercial complex is proposed as part of the ₹35,000 crore GPRA redevelopment projects, including a 14km elevated corridor around these colonies.The committee has asked the ministry to inform it about the project-wise steps taken, along with timelines, for augmenting the housing stock.The PAC said there is a shortage of about 36-37% in GPRA housing stock even as the demand for houses dropped from 98,789 in 2008 to 82,803 in September 2020.It also asked the ministry to inform it about the reason behind a sharp variation in the number of houses to be added to the government’s housing stock. As per the report, the ministry in August 2020 informed the committee that 4,599 houses were added and 30,000 were in the pipeline. But in July 2021, it said that 6,254 houses were added and around 26,000 were lined up.The committee also recommended geo-tagging of all government properties to ensure better monitoring and updating housing stock on real-time basis.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/pac-recommends-review-of-dprs-of-all-new-housing-projects-for-govt-employees-101639105730599.html
10-12-2021||India||‘Don’t celebrate the deaths..’ Ex-Pakistani army officer condoles Bipin Rawat's passing||A former officer in the Pakistan army has extended his condolence after India’s Chief of Defence Staff General Bipin Rawat was killed in a helicopter crash along with his wife and 12 other defence personnel on Wednesday.General Bipin Rawat and the 13 people were en route from an air force base to Wellington, a hillside military college in Tamil Nadu, and died when the Russian-made Mi-17V5 military helicopter they were travelling in crashed near Coonoor.Adil Farooq Raja, a former major in the Pakistani army, tweeted his respect on a post by Brigadier RS Pathania, a former Indian war veteran, about the death of Gen Bipin Rawat.Salute you sir. Jai Hind. 🇮🇳🇮🇳 pic.twitter.com/LawnhgcO6Y“Sir please accept my heartfelt condolences,” Raja, “an Armoured Corps officer having diverse experience in Active Combat, Security, Protocol and Administration/Training assignments,” condoled CDS Rawat’s death in the thread.Also read | Gen Rawat's funeral today, India to pay final respects to first CDSIn his reply Brigadier (retd) Pathania talked about a duty of a soldier. “Thank you Adil. That’s what is expected from a soldier. Salute you,” he said.Raja, whose LinkedIn profile says he is a geopolitical analyst and a columnist, replied to this with a traditional Punjabi saying.Also watch | Pak to China: How Gen Rawat helped shift gears on India's top security threat 
10-12-2021||NA||Parliament: Lok Sabha resumes with discussion on Covid-19||Parliament reconsituted on Friday the proceedings of the ongoing winter session. The session commenced on November 29 and will likely conclude on December 23.Both the Houses of Parliament -- Rajya Sabha and Lok Sabha -- have been witnessing back-to-back adjournments since the first day of the commencement, due to the constant protests by the opposition parties.Some opposition members are also staging daily protests against the suspension of 12MPs. They were suspended from Rajya Sabha for their alleged unruly behaviour towards the end of the monsoon session in August.Follow all the updates here:LS adjournedLok Sabha adjourned; LS to convene on Dec 13. Thomas Chazhikadan asks for fixed salaries for Anganwadi workersThe Kottayam MP said that the govt should switch from paying honorarium to Anganwadi to paying them full salaries. Dubey says Cong wanted to paralyse Modi govt by delaying processesThe BJP MP says the Congress understood that it will lose the elections in 2014 so it brought unnecessary regulations in the Land Acquistion Act and the Food Security Act to destabilise the plans of the new govt when it came to power in 2014. BJP MP Jangra says did yagya for more than 10 hours during Janta CurfewThe Haryana MP says during the first lockdown's first day his family participated in a yagya for more than 10 years while speaking on environmental pollution in RS. He also said that mental pollution should be tackled too and said that parents should ensure that children don't burst crackers. Rajya Sabha should have been adjourned today in view of last rites of CDC Rawat: TMC MPRajya Sabha should have been adjourned today in order to let all MPs pay tributes to CDS Rawat, says TMC MP Sushmita Dev.No farmer died due to police action in year-long protests: GovtNo farmer died due to police action during the year-long protests by farmers, informs Agriculture Minister Narendra Singh Tomar in written reply to Rajya Sabha. Over 14 crore Health IDs generated so far:GovtThe government has made a provision for every citizen to generate a Health ID free of cost and over 14 crore such IDs have been created till the first week of December, Minister of State for Health Bharati Pravin Pawar informed the Lok Sabha.‘Need to think what we will leave behind for future generations': BJP MP on climate changeIn Lok Sabha, the members continue to discuss climate change. BJP MP Tapir Gap says, “every individual in the country needs to think of what they will be leaving behind for the future generations." He also said that we need to learn from tribals on how to exist in harmony with nature. Rajya Sabha adjourned till 2.30 pmRajya Sabha adjourned till 2.30 pm today.Lok Sabha discuss climate changeLok Sabha begins discussion on climate change in the house. ‘Stepmotherly attitude towrads Kannada languae by govt': Congress MPCongress MP GC Chandrashekar says the govt is showing “stepmotherly attitude” towards Kannada language since the the BJP has come into power.  "When a language dies, we lose the ecosystem around the language," he said in Rajya Sabha. Lok Sabha resumes with discussion on Covid-19In Lok Sabha, RSP MP questions health minister on booster dose policy of the country.  Union minister of health, Mansukh Mandaviya responds saying, "We want that as soon as possible the country achieves 100% vaccination."Rajya Sabha proceedings beginsRajya Sabha proceedings begins. “Today marks the 73rd anniversary of the adaptation of the Universal Declaration of Human Rights," said the chairman as the session began. NDPS to be discussed in Lok Sabha todayUnion Finance Minister Nirmala Sitharaman will move the Narcotic Drugs and Psychotropic Substances (Amendment) Bill, 2021 for consideration and passing in Lok Sabha on Friday.PM Modi holds meeting with senior ministers to discuss strategy for ongoing sessionPM Narendra Modi holds meeting with senior ministers including Home Minister Amit Shah, Finance Minister Nirmala Sitharaman, Sports Minister Anurag Thakur, Commerce and Industry Minister Piyush Goyal and others to discuss strategy for the ongoing winter session of Parliament.Congress MP Manickam Tagore gives adjournment notice in Lok Sabha Congress MP Manickam Tagore gives adjournment motion notice in Lok Sabha to discuss "the intrusion of Chinese military into the Indian Territory."Congress'  Manish Tewari gives adjournment notice in Lok SabhaCongress MP Manish Tewari gives adjournment motion notice in Lok Sabha over the issue of inflation.622 Indian fishermen are lodged in foreign jails: Govt in Rajya SabhaA total of 622 Indian fishermen are lodged in foreign jails, including 574 in Pakistan, the government informed Rajya Sabha on Thursday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/parliament-winter-session-live-december-10-2021-101639101858430.html
10-12-2021||India||Human Rights Day 2021: President Kovind to address NHRC event in New Delhi||Marking the occasion of Human Rights Day 2021, President Ram Nath Kovind will on Friday address a programme organised by the National Human Rights Commission (NHRC) in New Delhi.“President Ram Nath Kovind will grace and address the function as the chief guest in the presence of chairperson Justice Arun Mishra,” the NHRC, which is the statutory public body responsible for the protection and promotion of human rights in India, said in a statement.The statement issued earlier this week also said members of the NHRC, its secretary-general, other senior officers and members of the statutory commission, SHRCs, diplomats, and various civil society members are also expected to attend the programme.Human Rights Day is observed on December 10 every year, since it was on this very day in 1948 that the United Nations General Assembly (UNGA) adopted the Universal Declaration of Human Rights, a milestone document that enshrines the rights and freedoms of all human beings.A foundational text in the history of human and civil rights, the Declaration consists of 30 articles detailing an individual's “basic rights and fundamental freedoms” and affirming their universal character as inherent, inalienable, and applicable to all human beings.The international document also commits nations to recognise all humans as being "born free and equal in dignity and rights" regardless of “nationality, place of residence, gender, national or ethnic origin, colour, religion, language, or any other status”.The National Human Rights Commission of India defines human rights as provided under the Protection of Human Rights Act (PHRA), 1993, as “Rights Relating To Life, liberty, equality and dignity of the individual guaranteed by the constitution or embodied in the international covenants and enforceable by courts in India”.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/human-rights-day-2021-president-kovind-to-address-nhrc-event-in-new-delhi-101639097834756.html
10-12-2021||India||‘Never lose hope’: Group Captain Varun Singh, who survived crash, in letter to his school||Indian Air Force (IAF) Group Captain Varun Singh wrote a letter to the principal of his school in Haryana in September to thank his “teachers, instructors and peers over the years” who helped him shape his life and give a message to the children at his alma mater.Varun Singh, the only survivor of the IAF chopper crash that resulted in the death of Chief of Defence Staff General Bipin Rawat, his wife and 11 others in Tamil Nadu, is battling for his life at Command Hospital in Bengaluru.He was shifted to the hospital from Wellington for further treatment and according to people familiar with the matter, he is maintaining vital signs but remains critical.Also read | Nation prays as sole survivor battles for lifeThe group captain said in his letter he wanted to share his thoughts “about my life which I feel may help and inspire children who might feel that they are meant to be only mediocre in this hyper competitive world.”The group captain said he is writing to them “filled with a sense of pride and humility”. “On August 15 this year, I have been awarded Shaurya Chakra by the President of India in recognition of an act of gallantry on October 12, 2020," he said.Also watch | Coonoor Crash: How lone survivor Varun Singh dodged death in 2020Group captain Singh was conferred with the Shaurya Chakra for displaying exemplary composure and skill when his Tejas aircraft developed the technical snag during a sortie last year."I credit this prestigious award to all those I have been associated with over the years in school, NDA and thereafter the Air Force, as I firmly believe that my actions that day were a result of the grooming and mentoring by my teachers. instructors and peers over the years," Singh wrote.Also read | PM Modi pays last respects to Gen Rawat, 12 others killed in chopper crashThe IAF officer said he was not trying to “blow his own trumpet or writing with a desire to seek a pat on the back”, and he wanted to let the children know a few of his life's experiences that may help them in future.He wrote he was a “very average student who barely scored first division in 12 class”. He was made the discipline prefect in Class 12, “I was equally average even in sports and other co-curricular activities. But I had a passion for airplanes and aviation.”Also read | Who is Group Captain Varun Singh? Know about lone survivor of IAF chopper crash"It is ok to be mediocre. Not everyone will excel at school and not everyone will be able to score in the 90s. If you do, it's an amazing achievement and must be applauded," Group Captain Singh wrote in the letter to the principal of the Army Public School in Chandimandir in Haryana."However, if you don't, do not think that you are meant to be mediocre. You may be mediocre in school but it is by no means a measure of things to come in life," he wrote in the letter dated September 18.Also read | Gen Rawat's funeral today, India to pay final respects to first CDS"Find your calling, it could be art, music, graphic design. literature etc. Whatever you work towards, be dedicated, do your best. Never go to bed thinking I could have put in more effort," he added.“Never lose hope, never think that you cannot be good at what you want to be. It will not come easy, it will take effort, it will require sacrifice of time and comfort. I was mediocre, and today I have reached difficult milestones in my career. Do not think that 12"h board marks decide what you are capable of achieving in life. Believe in yourself, work towards it."Also read | Coonoor helicopter crash: ‘Shocked’, 'inconsolable' as families face sudden lossSingh, the directing staff (air) at the Defence Services Staff College in Wellington, also said he was on the first list of 12 candidates shortlisted in 2019 for India’s first crewed spaceflight, Gaganyaan. He said he could not make it to the final list due to a medical requirement.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/never-lose-hope-group-captain-varun-singh-who-survived-crash-to-his-school-101639096796558.html
10-12-2021||India||Night curfew in 8 cities of Gujarat over Covid-19 may end today||Authorities in Gujarat will on Friday take a call on the night curfew, put in place amid the coronavirus pandemic, set to end in eight cities of the state. The curfew was imposed in Ahmedabad, Rajkot, Surat, Vadodara, Jamnagar, Bhavnagar, Gandhinagar and Junagadh cities on November 30 amid the ongoing threat of the Omicron variant of the coronavirus.The night curfew was already been in place since November 1 from 1am to 5am. Curfew timings were reduced by two hours in November for Diwali and Chhath Puja and due to a drop in daily cases of the coronavirus disease.Also Read| EU agency says Omicron cases so far appear 'mostly mild'. Then cautionsAccording to the state government order on November 30, commercial establishments including shops and beauty salons in the aforementioned eight cities had been allowed to operate till midnight. Restaurants could remain open till midnight with 75 per cent occupancy and home delivery and take-away services were also permitted till midnight, the order said.The order also said cinema halls across Gujarat could function with full capacity. People were requested to follow all Covid-19 protocols such as wearing masks and maintaining social distancing while inside the theatre.Also Watch| Amid Omicron variant scare, Covid third wave predictions by IIT scientist, ‘could hit by…’The order also stated that in the first 10 days of December, not more than 400 people were allowed to attend marriages, religious or political functions. While 100 people could take part in funeral processions.The Gujarat government earlier announced that people should have been vaccinated with at least one dose of the vaccine against Covid-19 to work in offices or business establishments, adding those eligible for the second dose should take it.Also Read| Omicron: Centre asks states, UTs to stay prepared for possible Covid surgeGujarat has so far recorded nearly 828,000 Covid-19 cases, 817,389 recoveries, 459 active cases and 10,095 deaths due to Covid-19. On Thursday, the state recorded 70 new cases and 28 more recoveries. No patients succumbed to Covid-19 on Wednesday.As many as 84.2 million vaccine doses have been administered in Gujarat so far of which 375,000 doses were administered on Thursday.(With PTI inputs)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/night-curfew-in-8-cities-of-gujarat-over-covid-19-may-end-today-101639094446185.html
10-12-2021||India||General Bipin Rawat's funeral today, India to pay final respects to first CDS||The funeral of India's first Chief of Defence Staff (CDS) General Bipin Rawat, who lost his life in a tragic air accident this week, will be held on Friday, according to people familiar with the matter.People will be able to pay their respects to the outstanding commander, who perished along with his wife and 11 other personnel of the armed forces in the military helicopter crash on Wednesday near Coonoor in Tamil Nadu, in Delhi.As per the day's plans shared by news agency PTI, the bodies of General Rawat and his wife Madhulika will be kept at their Kamaraj Marg residence from 11am to 12:30pm for the general public to pay their final respects.Also Read | PM Modi pays last respects to Gen Rawat, 12 others killed in chopper crashThe slot between 12:30pm and 1:30pm will be kept for military personnel to pay their respects to the braveheart general and his wife. The final journey of General Rawat from his residence to the Brar Square crematorium is scheduled to begin around 2pm.The late CDS Rawat's funeral is scheduled for 4pm, according to the news agency, which added that the funeral of Brigadier LS Lidder, whose body was also identified as one of the other casualties of the air accident, would be held at 9am.Although the Indian Air Force (IAF) has confirmed the deaths of 13 people in the helicopter crash on Wednesday afternoon, only three bodies have been identified so far—those of Gen Rawat, his wife Madhulika Rawat, and Brigadier Lidder. Army officials have said the bodies of those identified will be released to the families for last rites.Also Read | Retd brigadier says CDS Rawat's death will impact restructuring of armed forcesMeanwhile, the other bodies are being kept in the mortuary at the Army Base Hospital till they are identified.Heart-wrenching scenes were seen at New Delhi's Palam airport on Thursday as 13 caskets were lined up inside a hangar in presence of their family members.Prime Minister Narendra Modi, defence minister Rajnath Singh, and National Security Advisor (NSA) Ajit Doval were among the ones who paid their tributes on Thursday to the armed forces personnel who died in the air accident.The country's top military brass, including Indian Army Chief Gen MM Naravane, Indian Navy Chief Admiral R Hari Kumar, Air Chief Marshal AVR Chaudhari, and defence secretary Ajay Kumar, also paid their final homages to the deceased at a sombre ceremony.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/general-bipin-rawat-s-funeral-today-india-to-pay-final-respects-to-first-cds-101639093466560.html
10-12-2021||NA||Breaking News: US supreme court allows abortion clinics to challenge Texas law||Welcome to hindustantimes.com live updates platform where you can find breaking news from India and across the world. Find fast updates about the latest news as it breaks.Follow all the updates here:Bengaluru airport ramps up testingAmid outbreak of Omicron variant, Kempegowda International Airport Bengaluru ramps us testingKarnataka govt taking all precautionary measures; keeping active check of countries at risk. We have instructed all airlines to pre register their passengers: Terminal Ops Head S Kotian pic.twitter.com/D9rr7xseOkUS Supreme Court allows abortion providers to challenge Texas lawUS Supreme Court allows abortion providers to challenge Texas law, reports AFPCarcass of endangered Bryde's Whale washes ashore in Odisha, buried after post-mortemThe carcass of an endangered Bryde's whale washed ashore near the border of Puri and Ganjam districts in Odisha, reports PTI citing officials. The 48-foot-long female whale was buried near the shore after a post-mortem examination.Semi high-speed rail project in Kerala identified for development: Centre tells Rajya SabhaProject of Semi High-Speed Rail (531 Km) from Thiruvananthapuram to Kasargod has been identified by Kerala Rail Development Corporation Limited (KRDCL), a Joint Venture company of Kerala Govt (51%) and Ministry of Railways (49%) for development: Railway Minister Ashwini Vaishnaw pic.twitter.com/oMDttsOorsUnion railways minister Ashwini Vaishnaw informed Rajya Sabha that a semi high-speed railway line between Thiruvananthapuram to Kasargod in Kerala has been identified by the Kerala Rail Development Corporation Limited (KRDCL), a joint venture between the state of Kerala and the Union government, for development. India, Slovenia hold foreign office consultations virtually today: Govt The ministry of external affairs said that the eighth Foreign Office Consultations between India and Slovenia was held virtually today. MEA Secretary (West) Reenat Sandhu and Dr Stanislav Rascan, State Secretary Ministry of Foreign Affairs of Slovenia, reviewed bilateral relations and also discussed regional and global issues, the ministry said. With 7 new cases, Maharashtra's Omircon tally reaches 17; Mumbai, Pune report new casesWith seven new cases of the Omicron variant, 17 people so far have tested positive for the new variant. Mumbai added three cases and Pimpri-Chinchwad added four cases to the tally. Indonesian defence minister condoles demise of CDS General Rawat, says ‘was a good friend’Defence Minister of Indonesia Prabowo Subianto signed the condolence book in Jakarta after the demise of chief of defence staff General Bipin Rawat, reports ANI. He wrote, "CDS Gen Bipin Rawat of the Indian Armed Forces was a good friend and a great Indian patriot. May he rest in peace."Cabinet secretary to hold review meeting on Covid-19 tomorrowCabinet secretary will hold a review meeting on Covid-19 on December 11 at 2.30pm, reports ANI. Secretary (DBT), Member -Health, NITI Aayog, Secretary (Health Ministry), Secretary (Pharma) would participate.Congress says Mamata Banerjee helping BJP in GoaCongress leader Adhir Chowdhury said that Bengal CM Mamata Banerjee is helping the BJP in Goa, ahead of the assembly polls next year there.  “She is indirectly supporting them. BJP will benefit from the formation of this federal front. She thinks that Congress will not perform in Goa, but has forgotten that Congress helped her become a Central minister,” ANI quoted him as saying. JKNC leader Omar Abdullah condemns militant attack in Bandipore, KashmirI condemn the militant attack on the police in Bandipore area of North Kashmir earlier today that resulted in the death in the line of duty of J&K police personnel Muhammad Sultan and Fayaz Ahmad. May Allah grant them Jannat & may their families find strength at this time.Former J&K chief minister and leader of the JK National Conference party Omar Abdullah condemned the militant attack in Bandipore, Kashmir, in which two policemen were killed. UPDATE: 2 cops injured in terrorist attack in Kashmir's Bandipora succumb to injuriesThe two cops, who were injured after militants attacked a police party in Kashmir's Bandipora, succumbed to their injuries. The attack took place at busy Gulshan Chowk area and it has now been cordoned by the police and army. Terrorists attack police party in Kashmir's Bandipora, 2 injuredTwo police personnel were injured in a militant attack targeted at a police party in Bandipora, Kashmir. 2 high-risk contacts of Dharavi Omicron case test negative, says BMCThe Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation has said that two high-risk contacts of the Dharavi patient, who was infected with the Omicron strain of Covid-19, have tested negative. CDS General Bipin Rawat cremated with full military honoursChief of defence staff General Bipin Rawat laid to final rest with full military honours. His last rites were performed along with his wife Madhulika Rawat, who too lost her life in the IAF chopper crash. Their daughters Kritika and Tarini performed their last rites, reports ANI. ‘Both vaccines and mask are important’: Dr VK PaulDr VK Paul, NITI Aayog member, health, said that the WHO has warned against the declining mask usage and that the global scene regarding the Omicron variant is “disturbing,” reports ANI.“We are now operating at a risky and unacceptable level. We have to remember that both vaccines and masks are important,” he said. Wing Commander Prithvi Singh Chauhan's last rites to be held in Agra tomorrow with state honour: UP CMHis last rites will be done tomorrow in Agra with state honors. I also pray for the recovery of Wing Commander Varun Singh who has been injured in the crash: CM Yogi AdityanathUttar Pradesh chief minister Yogi Adityanath said that the last rites of Wing Commander Prithvi Singh Chauhan, who died in the IAF chopper crash, would be held with state honour in Agra tomorrow, reports ANI.The CM also said that ₹50 lakh and a state government job for a family member would be provided. An institution will also be named after the army official.1 Omicron case identified in Mumbai's Dharavi, patient had returned from TanzaniaA returnee from Tanzania has tested positive for the Omicron Covid-19 strain in Dharavi area of Mumbai, reports ANI citing the Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC). The person is now admitted at the SevenHills Hospital.ICMR chief says restrictions to be implemented in districts with positivity over 5%Director-general of the Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR) Balram Bhargava said that regular meetings were being organised to track the global scenario and Covid-19 scene in India with a focus on the new Omicron variant, reports ANI. “We need help to not spread panic. District level restrictions to be implemented where positivity over 5%,” he said. Daughters pay tribute to CDS General Rawat, Madhulika RawatDelhi: Daughters of #CDSGeneralBipinRawat and Madhulika Rawat - Kritika and Tarini - pay tribute to their parents. Other members of the family also join them in paying last respects. pic.twitter.com/Wc88k8oZaFDaughters of CDS General Bipin Rawat and Madhulika Rawat - Kritika and Tarini - paid tribute to their parents. Other members of the family also join them in paying last respects, reports ANI.Centre says states have been notified to increase surveillance, test foreign returneesLav Agarwal said that the states have been notified to increase surveillance and active test passengers arriving from other countries, reports ANI. “Surveillance, effective screening, monitoring of international travellers and health infrastructure upgradation is being done,” he said. 25 Omicron cases so far, all patients having mild symptoms: GovtUnion health ministry's joint secretary Lav Agarwal said that 25 Omicron cases have been identified in the country so far. He also said that all cases were found to have mild symptoms.Mortal remains of CDS Rawat, Madhulika Rawat reach Delhi Cantt crematoriumDelhi: The mortal remains of #CDSGeneralBipinRawat and his wife Madhulika Rawat brought to Brar Square crematorium, Delhi Cantonment.#TamilNaduChopperCrash pic.twitter.com/ZPyL4FlLHUThe bodies have reached Brar Square crematoriumPak officials pay their respects to CDS RawatThe defence advisor and the naval advisor posted at the pakistan high commission also paid their last respects by visiting Bipin Rawat's residence, attributed to Pak HCPunjab polls: AAP releases list of candidatesAAP releases second list of 30 candidates, fields Kunwar Vijay Pratap Singh from Amritsar North seat.Punjabi singer Sidhu Moosewala faces hostility at Mansa rallyPunjabi singer Sidhu Moosewala faced huge opposition at Congress rally in the presence of CM Channi organised in Mansa on Saturday. It was Moosewala's maiden presence in a political event after joining the Congress. Youth carrying placards of Mansa district Congress president Chushpinder Singh hooted all along speech of the singer.Funeral procession of CDS Gen Bipin Rawat begins from his Delhi residence#WATCH | Delhi: The funeral procession of #CDSGeneralBipinRawat leaves from his residence to Brar Square crematorium in Delhi Cantonment pic.twitter.com/ysWIGSEjDkCDS Bipin Rawat's funeral procession commences journey towards crematorium in Delhi Cantonment from his Delhi residence2 people in Gujarat's Jamnagar who came in contact with Omicron cases test positive for variant of concern2 people in Gujarat's Jamnagar who came in contact with Omicron cases test positive for variant of concern, reports news agency ANIMumbai Mayor receives anonymous letter containing death threat, derogatory languageMumbai mayor Kishori Pednekar received an anonymous letter earlier this morning which contained derogatory languages and also threatened to kill her. The mayor said that the envelope didn't contain any seal and will lodge an official complaint in the Police Station.Union ministers pay last respects to CDS General RawatUnion Ministers Nirmala Sitharaman, Mansukh Mandaviya, Smriti Irani, and Sarbananda Sonowal paid tribute to CDS General Bipin Rawat who lost his life in the IAF chopper crash on Wednesday pic.twitter.com/cdqVXHzJExUnion Ministers Nirmala Sitharaman, Mansukh Mandaviya, Smriti Irani, and Sarbananda Sonowal paid their tributes to CDS General Bipin Rawat who lost his life in the IAF chopper crash, reports ANI.Rakesh Tikait pays last respect to CDS General RawatDelhi: Bharatiya Kisan Union (BKU) leader Rakesh Tikat pays last respects to #CDSGeneralBipinRawat pic.twitter.com/wugbzsDykpBharatiya Kisan Union leader Rakesh Tikait paid his last respects to chief of defence staff General Bipin Rawat, reports ANI. Avoid ‘uninformed speculation’ on Dec 8 chopper crash in Tamil Nadu, says IAFIAF has constituted a tri-service Court of Inquiry to investigate the cause of the tragic helicopter accident on 08 Dec 21. The inquiry would be completed expeditiously & facts brought out. Till then, to respect the dignity of the deceased, uninformed speculation may be avoided.The Indian Air Force (IAF) said on Friday that it has constituted a tri-service Court of inquiry to investigate the cause of the helicopter crash in Tamil Nadu on December 8 in which CDS General Bipin Rawat along with 12 others was killed. “The inquiry would be completed expeditiously and facts brought out. Till then, to respect the dignity of the deceased, uninformed speculation may be avoided,” the IAF tweeted. Thinking of quitting my jobs: Elon Musk posts on Twitter, gets a coaching offerBillionaire Elon Musk said on Friday he is planning to quit his “jobs” and become a full-time influencer, sending his followers on Twitter into a frenzy. Read moreSpecial flight from Kabul bringing back over 100 people to IndiaA special charter flight from Afghanistan's Kabul is bringing back more than 100 people, mostly Afghan Sikhs and Hindus and few Indian nationals back to India, people familiar with developments told Hindustan Times on Friday. China increases range of military exercises near Taiwan StraitChina has increased the range of its military exercises near the Taiwan Strait. The expansion is being seen as an attempt to the United States and its allies from intervening to protect Taiwan.Amit Shah pays final tributes to late CDS General Bipin RawatHome Minister Amit Shah pays tribute to CDS Gen Bipin Rawat who passed away in an IAF chopper crash near Coonoor in Tamil Nadu on Wednesday. pic.twitter.com/Jf14uoUyMeUnion home minister Amit Shah on Friday paid his final tributes to late chief of defence staff (CDS) General Bipin Rawat. General Rawat, wife Madhulika and 11 others died in a military helicopter crash near Coonoor in Tamil Nadu on December 8. India records 8,503 new Covid-19 cases in last 24 hrsIndia on Friday saw a reduction in its daily tally of the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) after 8,503 new cases were recorded in the last 24 hours, according to the Union health ministry's dashboard. Coonoor chopper crash: Mortal remains of Brig LS Lidder brought to Brar SquareDelhi: The mortal remains of Brig LS Lidder brought to Brar Square, Delhi Cantt.He lost his life in #TamilNaduChopperCrash on 8th December. pic.twitter.com/YReL220PC2Voting underway for 25 MLC seats in KarnatakaVoting is currently underway for the biennial election to the Karnataka Legislative Council's 25 seats from 20 Local Authorities' Constituencies. As many as 90 candidates are in the fray. Defence minister Rajnath Singh to attend last rites of Coonoor chopper crash victim Brig LidderDefence minister Rajnath Singh will on Friday attend the last rites of Brigadier LS Lidder, who died in Coonoor chopper crash. Singh will attend the last rites at 9.15 am. Death toll in Mexico migrant road accident rises to 53The death toll in the migrant road accident in southern Mexico has climbed to 53. Delhi's air quality in ‘poor’ categoryDelhi | Air Quality Index (AQI) is presently at 293 (overall) in the 'poor' category, as per System of Air Quality and Weather Forecasting And Research (SAFAR)-IndiaShaktikanta Das to start his extended 3-year tenure as RBI governorShaktikanta Das will start his extended three-year tenure as the Reserve Bank of India (RBI) governor from Friday. The decision for this extension was taken by the appointments committee of the cabinet headed by Prime Minister Narendra Modi. Read moreAll Omicron patients in Rajasthan test -ve for Covid, dischargedAll the nine patients who were infected with Omicron variant of coronavirus and were admitted to a hospital in Jaipur, tested negative for Covid-19 on Thursday and they have been discharged. Night curfew in 8 cities of Gujarat over Covid-19 may end todayAuthorities in Gujarat will on Friday take a call on the night curfew, put in place amid the coronavirus pandemic, set to end in eight cities of the state. Read moreKarnataka to issue separate guidelines for for hostels, Covid-19 clusters: CM BommaiThe Karnataka government will issue separate guidelines for student hostels and Covid-19 clusters as a part of the pandemic management in the state, chief minister Bommai said on Thursday. "Separate Guidelines would be issued for hostels which would include sanitisation, serving of food in staggered batches, maintaining distance, compulsory double dose vaccination for cooking personnel and setting up isolation rooms. Special standard operating procedures would also be released for managing Covid clusters in Bengaluru and other places," Bommai told reporters, according to news agency PTI. Mexico: 49 migrants dead, dozens injured in truck crashA cargo truck carrying Central American migrants rolled over on a highway in southern Mexico on Thursday, killing 49 people and injuring dozens more, news agency AP reported citing authorities.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/breaking-news-updates-december-10-2021-101639093817661.html
10-12-2021||India||Mullaperiyar issue: Kerala wants Tamil Nadu not to release water in wee hours||The Kerala government has moved the Supreme Court seeking a direction to Tamil Nadu not to release a huge quantity of water in the wee hours from the 126-year-old Mullaperiyar dam, saying it causes heavy damage to the people living downstream of the dam.In an application filed in the apex court, the Kerala government has also sought a direction to the Tamil Nadu government to control the water level by releasing water from the dam throughout the day instead of releasing a huge quantity of water at the wee hours without giving sufficient warning time.A bench of Justices A M Khanwilkar and C T Ravikumar is scheduled to hear on Friday the pleas which have raised issues about the dam, built in 1895 on the Periyar river in Idukki district of Kerala.The Kerala government, in its application filed through advocate G Prakash, has said that the supervisory committee is directed to act according to the interim directions of the apex court to avoid difficulties for the people who live downstream.It said that a ‘joint technical on-site committee for spillway release’, comprising of two members each from the states of Kerala and Tamil Nadu, be constituted to decide on the quantity and time of surplus discharge through spillway shutters to Kerala.The application said it should also be ensured that only based on the recommendation of the joint technical on-site committee, the surplus to Kerala would be effected with sufficient warning time to the district disaster management authority.“Due to the erratic release of the heavy volume of water, that too without any intimation during the wee hours of the day for the last more than one week created heavy damage to the people and their property who are living in the downstream of the Mullaperiyar dam,” the application said.It said the Kerala chief minister had sent a letter to the chief minister of Tamil Nadu for taking immediate action regarding the release of water.It said that the apex court had on October 28 ordered that for the time being, the parties would abide by the water level notified by the expert committee.The application said that from the last week of November onwards, the catchment area of the Mullaperiyar dam and the places in and around Idukki district experienced heavy rainfall which resulted in the increase of water level of the dam. It said that the chief secretary of Kerala had also sent a letter dated December 7 to the chief secretary of Tamil Nadu explaining the difficulties which the people, who live on the banks of the Periyar river, face due to the sudden discharge of water for the past one week especially at night by opening spillway without sufficient intimation and that too at the wee hours.“The heavy releases of water through the spillway that too without sufficient advance information has created undue hardship, physical and mental agony and loss of property to thousands of people living in the downstream of Mullaperiyar dam,” the application said.It said that to avoid this contingency, an on-site committee consisting of technical members of both the states can be constituted to take stock of this kind of a situation and the panel can decide as to how and when the water from the dam can be released without creating problems to the people living downstream and their property.The top court had on November 22 said that all the issues related to the dam would be heard on December 10.The Kerala government had earlier told the apex court that “no amount of rejuvenation” can perpetuate the dam and there is a limit to the number of years one can keep dams in service through maintenance and strengthening measures.It had said the only permanent solution for removing the “eternal threat owing to the safety concerns” of the dam and for protecting the safety of lakhs of people living the downstream of Mullaperiyar dam is to build a new dam in the downstream reaches of the existing dam.In an affidavit filed before the apex court, the Kerala government had urged that the proposal to fix the upper rule level of Mullaperiyar dam at 142 feet on September 20 as formulated by Tamil Nadu may be avoided.In its response to the affidavit filed by Kerala, the state of Tamil Nadu had said that “repeated assertion” of Kerala and petitioners from there in the pleas filed from time-to-time seek to decommission of the existing dam and construction of a new dam, which is “wholly impermissible” in the light of the apex court verdict on the safety of the dam.“The dam has been found to be hydrologically, structurally, and seismically safe,” Tamil Nadu had said.The Tamil Nadu government had also told the apex court that “repeated assertion” by Kerala to seek decommissioning of the dam is “wholly impermissible” as the dam is hydrologically, structurally, and seismically safe.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/mullaperiyar-issue-kerala-wants-tamil-nadu-not-to-release-water-in-wee-hours-101639077880787.html
10-12-2021||India||Madras high court rejects cop’s plea to quash case filed by Dhoni||The Madras High Court on Thursday rejected a plea from IPS officer G Sampath Kumar to set aside the defamation proceedings initiated against him by cricketer M S Dhoni.Any order at this stage would certainly affect the progress of the main case pending from 2014, Justice N Seshasayee said and dismissed the petition from Kumar.Originally, Dhoni had filed a defamation suit claiming ₹100 crore towards damages from a TV media firm and others for allegedly telecasting malicious news that he was involved in betting, spot and match fixing of IPL matches, in 2014. He sought to restrain the defendants, including Kumar, who initially probed the IPL betting scam from issuing statements and publishing them.Dhoni , captain of the Chennai Super Kings IPS franchise, had submitted the defendants had been carrying highly defamatory, scandalous and libelous false reports and statements since February 11, 2014. The sole agenda of the defendants was somehow to malign and destroy his reputation in the eyes of the millions of his fans and cricket lovers all over the world. He prayed for a direction to the defendants to pay ₹100 crore towards damages.And Justice S Tamilvanan (now retired) granted the interim injunction earlier restraining the defendants from doing so.Aggrieved, Sampath Kumar filed a petition challenging the defamation suit in 2014. In his additional counter-affidavit filed recently, he contended that the suit was to gag him. That was the reason behind filing the suit here at the Madras High Court, whereas none of the other three defendants of the suit were based in Tamil Nadu.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/madras-high-court-rejects-cop-s-plea-to-quash-case-filed-by-dhoni-101639077826226.html
10-12-2021||India||Tamil Nadu: YouTuber arrested for his tweet on helicopter crash||Controversial Youtuber Maridhas (who goes by his first name) was arrested in Madurai for his alleged insinuating tweets on a helicopter crash that left India’s chief of defence staff and 12 others dead.Maridhas from his Twitter handle @maridhasanswers had tweeted in Tamil that Tamil Nadu under the DMK rule was becoming another Kashmir. The tweet has been deleted since.The Madurai superintendent of police, Prem Anand Sinha, confirmed that Maridhas has been arrested under sections 153 (provocation with intent to cause riot) and 505(2) (making statements with intent to cause public mischief, fear, alarm among public) of the Indian Penal Code.When police were taking away Maridhas, there were protestors who raised slogans against police and two people were seen carrying BJP flags.Chief of defence staff General Bipin Rawat was travelling with his wife and other senior officers when their aircraft crashed in a forest in Tamil Nadu, killing all but one soldier aboard.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/tamil-nadu-youtuber-arrested-for-his-tweet-on-helicopter-crash-101639077822722.html
10-12-2021||India||SpiceJet flight to Kolkata returns to Mumbai due to ‘technical issue’||SpiceJet on Thursday said its 737 Max plane, which was heading from Mumbai to Kolkata, returned to Maharashtra’s capital city due to a “technical issue”.All Max planes were grounded in India by the Directorate General of Civil Aviation (DGCA) on March 13, 2019, three days after the crash of an Ethiopian Airlines 737 MAX plane near Addis Ababa, which had left 157 people, including four Indians, dead. After Boeing made necessary software rectifications, the DGCA had on August 26 this year lifted the ban on Max planes’ commercial flight operations.SpiceJet resumed operating its Max planes for commercial flight operations last month. “SpiceJet flight SG- 467 operating Mumbai-Kolkata returned back to Mumbai after take off due to a technical issue. The aircraft landed safely in Mumbai,” a SpiceJet spokesperson said on Thursday. SpiceJet, the only operator of Max planes in the country, had signed a USD 22 billion deal with Boeing for 205 aircraft in 2017, and has 13 of these planes in its fleet at present.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/spicejet-flight-to-kolkata-returns-to-mumbai-due-to-technical-issue-101639077767617.html
10-12-2021||India||NCERT pulled up for taking down manual on transgender-inclusiveness||While hearing compliance reports filed by various state and central departments on the guidelines to be followed by the LGBTQIA+ community, the Madras high court said the National Council of Educational Research And Training (NCERT) rightly posted material on its website to sensitise teachers but “in a very shocking development”, it was taken down within hours of its publication due to pressure from some quarters. Justice N Anand Venkatesh was hearing the case on December 6 in pursuant of his landmark judgment passed on June 7 to ensure the transgender community was protected from various quarters including those in consensual relationships from police harassment. The case pertained to a lesbian couple moving court seeking protection as they were in a consensual relationship and complained of being harassed by their parents who had filed FIRs with local police saying that their daughters were missing. The justice, in his orders, noted that some press reports stated that the concerned persons who had developed this material for NCERT were even transferred out to other departments. “This court is unable to understand the need for such a knee jerk reaction within hours of the material getting uploaded on the website. If someone really had a grievance, the same should have been addressed in a proper manner through proper consultation and meetings, and no one can be allowed to arm twist a state-run council into forcibly withdrawing a material that came out after a long study by a committee,” he said in the order. “It is quite unfortunate that such an important development was nipped in the bud.” He added that this incident serves as reminder that the court has to continuously follow-up to bring in changes in the education system. This court now expects the NCERT to come up with their recommendation based on the report submitted by a committee which had researched this material and file a status report before the next hearing posted for December 23. “The report of an expert body after a detailed study cannot be dumped just because a handful of persons are opposed to this very idea of recognising persons belonging to the community,” justice Venkatesh said. “In a democratic country like India, discussions and consultations must form the basis for any policy and pressure tactics cannot be allowed to shut down any policy, and if such an attitude is encouraged, it poses a greater danger to the fabric of this nation.” Meanwhile, the high court appreciated immediate steps taken by Tamil Nadu’s Director General of Prisons and Correctional Services and the state government for bringing in a specific amending clause to police ‘conduct rules’ pursuant to the previous orders passed by this court. “This new rule will be effectively instrumental in ensuring that the (transgender) Community does not suffer harassment at the hands of any police officer,” the court said. The justice added that regular sensitisation programmes will definitely help the police officers change their attitude towards the LGBTQIA+ Community and in future the new conduct rule will enable them to punish earring police officers in the future.The counsel appearing for the state government told the court that they were taking steps to come up with a transgender policy along with standard words and expressions to be used by the press while addressing the transgender community which they will submit during the next hearing on December 23.
10-12-2021||India||Telangana mines: Production hit as 75k workers go on strike against privatisation||Mining in 23 underground and 19 open cast coal mines belonging to the state-run Singareni Collieries Company Ltd (SCCL) in northern Telangana districts came to a grinding halt on Thursday, with nearly 75,000 miners launching a 72-hour-long strike in protest against the central government’s decision to privatise four coal blocks in the region.The three-day strike is being spearheaded by Telangana Boggu Gani Karmika Sangham (TBGKS), a recognised trade union of the SCCL, affiliated to the ruling Telangana Rasthra Samithi. All the other major unions like Indian National Trade Union Congress (INTUC), All India Trade Union Congress (AITUC) and Hindustan Mazdoor Sangh (HMS) also joined the strike.TBGKS general secretary Miryala Raji Reddy said around 43,000 coal mine workers and employees, besides around 25,000 contract employees, struck the work, bringing the production of coal in the mines to a halt.The unions are protesting against the NDA government’s move to privatise four coal blocks -- Kalyan Khani block-6, Koyagudem block-3, Sathupalli block-3 and Shravanapalli, belonging to the SCCL.The Centre had already completed privatisation of first tranche of coal blocks in November last year. The bidding for the second tranche of coal mines privatisation is expected to be taken up next week, Raji Reddy said.He said the unions, among other things, also demanded the enhancement of age from 35 years to 40 years for dependents of medically invalidated and deceased employees.The coal mine workers at SCCL Ramagundam region in Peddapalli district took out a rally at the coal mines and raised slogans against the privatisation move. They stopped the mining operations by locking up the gates.Mild tension prevailed at Bhupalpally 8-incline Long-wall coalmine, when the management of the SCCL made an attempt to engage private workers to load coal into the trucks. The union leaders obstructed the private workers from entering the premises and the police had to enter the scene to pacify them.Similar protests were taken up at the SCCL mines at Srirampur, Bellampalli and Mandamarri coalmines in Adilabad district. “The Centre should unconditionally withdraw its proposal to privatise the profit-making coal mines of Singareni. The decision would affect the future of the workers and the very survival of the company is at stake,” AITUC general secretary Vasireddy Sitaramaiah said, addressing the agitating workers.The Singareni coal mines are spread over erstwhile districts of Adilabad, Karimnagar, Khammam, and Warangal in Telangana.
10-12-2021||India||High alert in Kerala after bird flu detection||The Kerala government on Thursday sounded a high alert in Alapuzha district after the state animal husbandry department confirmed bird flu (H5N1) influenza) in some samples sent to the National Institute of High-Security Animal Disease in Bhopal. Many ducks and local birds perished in the district last week, forcing authorities to rush samples to the Bhopal lab. A total of 140 samples were sent for test and 26 samples tested positive for bird flu. Veterinary officials said the culling of ducks would start in affected areas on Friday, and farmers will be compensated according to the government norms. “The government has instructed the district collector to take necessary measures,” said animal husbandry minister J Cinchu Rani in the state capital. Endowed with many backwaters and water bodies, farmers rear a duck in a big way in the district, which results in cases of bird flu regularly. Birds from other countries are reportedly the carriers of the virus. In Alapuzha and neighbouring Kottayam, duck rearing is an important business, and there is high demand for eggs and meat of the water bird, generally priced higher than poultry. Last year, too, the district reported the viral outbreak, but it was localized and contained. In 2016, at least 500,000 chickens and ducks were culled in Alapuzha and Pathanamthitta districts to control the outbreak. Bird flu, also known as Avian Flu, is a variety of influenza caused by an airborne virus in birds. It can spread to humans in rare conditions, and if it happens, it can trigger a person to person transmission, experts said. There are many variants of the virus and H7N9 is considered the dangerous among them, they added. According to the World Health Organization (WHO), there are many subtypes of the avian influenza virus, and only some of them will be dangerous to humans.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/high-alert-in-kerala-after-bird-flu-detection-101639077707328.html
10-12-2021||India||Kerala high court sends notice to Malayalam movie director over abusive dialogues||Expressing serious reservations over use of abusive languages in a recent Malayalam movie “Churuli”, the Kerala High Court on Thursday sent notice to the censor board, filmmaker and director. A single bench of Justice N Nagaresh made the oral observation after a portion of the movie was played out in the courtroom. The court ordered to send notice to all respondents and observed that dialogues in the movie were “atrocious”. A plea was filed the court last week by lawyer Peggy Fen in which he claimed that derogatory terms were used deliberately to attract more viewers and they were against moral views of the society. “Even though the movie invokes a sense of curiosity and mystery in the minds of viewers there is an overdose of foul language. Majority of the dialogues were filthy and obscene which are opposed to influence public morality,” the petitioner contended. He also said films as a form of art and entertainment tend to influence many in the society, especially youngsters. The petitioner also pointed out that since the outbreak of pandemic and subsequent strict restrictions in cinema talkies most families were hooked to the OTT platform and children normally access these platforms and can view such movies. When the language in the movie created a furore, the censor board said the copy released was not the one certified by it. The mystery film was released on OTT platform by Sony Liv on Nov 19. It was directed by award-winning director Lijo Jose Pellissery and screen play was written by S Harish. Known for his unconventional approach, Pellissery’s movie ‘Jallikettu’ was one of the entries to the Oscar last year. Pellissery did not respond to phone calls. Main casts of the movie are Chemban Vinod Jose, Vinay Fort and Joju Geroge. The story revolves around two cops who were sent to a desolate hamlet in a forest mainly inhabited by history-sheeters to nab a serial offender. Earlier when confronted with the foul language issue soon after the release, the crew had said the cinema revolved around such a story and it was natural such dialogues will arise.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/kerala-high-court-sends-notice-to-malayalam-movie-director-over-abusive-dialogues-101639077704710.html
10-12-2021||India||Vegetable prices continue to soar across southern states after rains||Vegetable prices continue to soar in most southern states with a kilogram of tomato being sold at ₹100 and drumstick costing close to ₹200 per kg, according to local sellers, who cited damages to crops due to heavy rainfall in November as the reason for the sky-high prices.According to the India Meteorological Department, the November rainfall in Tamil Nadu was the highest since 1901, when recording of rainfall started in India.In Chennai, most vegetables were being sold for ₹100 or more, said R Soundararajan, adviser to the Koyambedu Wholesale Vegetable Traders.He said one kg of tomato in Chennai was selling anywhere between ₹90 and ₹120 while a kilo of drumstick was costing around ₹250. “Beans are being sold at ₹90, carrot and ladies’ fingers at ₹80 a kg each in the wholesale market,” he added.In neighbouring Kerala, a kg of tomato was being sold for ₹100 and drumstick for up to ₹200. “Drumstick, an essential ingredient in sambhar, was one of the cheapest in the market. But now we weigh it like gold. Before Diwali one kg of the vegetable would cost ₹40 and now it is between ₹140 and ₹180,” said P Murugan, a vegetable vendor in Palayam market in the state capital.He added that in the first week of November, the retail price of tomato was ₹45 and now it is between ₹80 and ₹100 a kg. Vegetable vendors blame the short supply of produce from neighbouring Tamil Nadu, which weathered heavy rains last month, for the soaring prices. Kerala depends on supply from its neighbour to meet its demand of fruits, vegetables and poultry products.Farmers said vegetable production in Kerala declined sharply due to unseasonal heavy downpour in the last two months. According to IMD data, Kerala received 3,523.3 mm of rainfall from October 1 to November 24 and it was slightly higher than the 2018 tally of 3,518. 9 mm. The highest rainfall in the state was clocked at 4,257 mm in 1961, IMD said.Such has been the shortage in the southern states that both Kerala and Tamil Nadu government have started selling vegetables.With prices of vegetables, particularly tomatoes, soaring due to the northeast monsoon downpour, the Tamil Nadu government began selling tomatoes for ₹85 to ₹100 per kg through state-run farm fresh outlets in 12 districts, including Chennai from the last week of November.The state cooperatives department said in a statement that they are procuring 15 metric tonnes of tomatoes every day for selling through government outlets. In the last week of November, tomatoes had touched ₹140 a kg in retail markets of Tamil Nadu, which primarily gets tomato supply from two regions in Karnataka and three regions in Andhra Pradesh.In November second week, the government-controlled Kerala Fruits and Vegetable Promotion Council had intervened in the market by procuring vegetables directly from Tamil Nadu and Karnataka, officials said. It resulted in some relief for more than a week and prices came down by 30-40% but it went up again in last two weeks, local residents in Thiruvananthapuram said.“We know prices again went up. We will make direct procurement from outside and distribute it to outlets to control prices,” said state agriculture minister P Prasad, adding that the Kerala government will take strict action against hoarders and others who engineer price hike.In Hyderabad, vegetable prices have shot up again this week, after a brief respite early last month. Tomatoes, which were being sold at ₹42 per kg on November 9, jumped up to ₹100 per kg in Mehdipatnam Rythu Bazar, a state-run vegetable market, and ₹120 in open markets on November 19, when the city witnessed heavy rains. On Thursday, tomatoes were again being sold at ₹80 a kg, though the official rate at the Mehdipatnam Rythu Bazar, still showed ₹50.“What is displayed at the Rythu Bazars is the wholesale price. But in the retail market, the prices are at least 20-25% more,” an official at the Rythu Bazar said.Similarly, the cost of ladies’ fingers on Thursday at the government-fixed rate was ₹65, but it was being sold at ₹80 a kg and more in open markets. “In the supermarkets, we have to shell off ₹100 for a kg of bhindi (ladies’ fingers). Even the quality is not good,” said S Sunitha, a homemaker.The price of ridge gourd and ivy gourd in the Rythu Bazar on Thursday was ₹65 per kg, but in the open market, it was being sold for around ₹80. Same is the case with cluster beans and French beans, which are priced at ₹65 a kg.“We have stopped bringing other vegetables like carrot, beet root, bottle gourd and cucumber to the markets, because they are very costly. If there are no takers, we would be put to heavy losses,” said a vegetable vendor at a weekly market in Somajiguda.In Bengaluru, a kg of tomato would cost anywhere between ₹98 and ₹110 even as the wholesale prices of the vegetable stood at ₹55, said Manan, the manager of fruit and vegetable outlet, Safal.Prices of several vegetables have come down in the city in recent weeks, the retailer said. “Coriander is being sold at around ₹30 per bunch, onions at ₹38 to ₹45 per kg while ladies’ fingers cost between ₹88 and ₹100 per kg,” he said.(With inputs from bureaus in Bengaluru and Hyderabad)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/vegetable-prices-continue-to-soar-across-southern-states-after-rains-101639077701164.html
10-12-2021||India||State has accounted for 10% samples sent for sequencing: Data||Karnataka has accounted for almost 10 per cent of the total samples sent to government-approved labs for genome sequencing across the country between July 1 and December 5, the state health department said on Thursday.Karnataka health minister Dr K Sudhakar said that the state has sent 2,149 samples for sequencing to Indian SARS-CoV-2 Genomics Consortium (INSACOG) laboratories across India. According to the INSACOG data, around 21,669 samples were sent for genome sequencing from all states between July 1 and December 5 this year.Sudhakar further said that if the number of samples sent for sequencing to private labs during the same period was added, the total samples from the state stand at 6,279. Around 4,124 samples collected from various BBMP wards in Bengaluru were sent for sequencing to a private facility Strand Life Sequences laboratory, he added. Talking about the samples of the contacts of the two patients who tested positive for Omicron, Sudhakar said their genomic sequence report is yet to arrive. “New infections have been discovered in other states. The primary and secondary contacts of the infected, too, are found to have no problems or symptoms. The infected are being treated at the Bowring Hospital. Those who came in contact with the ‘Omicron’ infected have received both vaccine doses,” Dr Sudhakar said.As of now, labs at the National Centre for Biological Sciences (NCBS) and National Institute of Mental Health and Neurosciences (NIMHANS) are the only two laboratories in Karnataka that have been approved by INSACOG to conduct genomic sequencing. Since the Union government has ordered state governments to send sequencing samples only to government-approved labs, the pressure is expected to mount on NCBS and NIMHANS. Karnataka chief minister Bommai said on Wednesday that foreseeing an increase in Covid-19 cases, the government had already initiated action to establish genome sequencing labs in the state, and the state health secretary Anil Kumar has been instructed to look into the needs of procuring the necessary equipment and experts for the purpose.During the second wave of Covid-19, the state government had said six genome sequencing labs were being set up at Bengaluru, Mysuru, Shivamogga, Hubballi, Mangaluru and Vijayapura. “We have taken measures to set up genomic sequencing labs. It requires expert facilities and lab equipment. Instructions have been given to the Health Secretary in this regard,” Bommai said in response to a question on increasing the number of genomic sequencing labs in the state on Wednesday.An official of the health department, who didn’t want to be named, said that the government would continue to use the private labs and the labs under construction to increase sequencing in the state, and for higher reference, samples are also being sent to NCBS or NIMHANS. Two cases of Omicron infections were detected in the state last week. One is a South African national who has left the country after testing negative, while the other is a local person, a doctor with no travel history. The second patient who got a reinfection of Covid-19, is at a government hospital.
10-12-2021||India||Technology helps in effective delivery of health services, Karnataka minister||Primary health services for people can be effectively delivered through the Ayush system by using the appropriate technology, said Karnataka Higher Education Minister Dr CN Ashwath Narayan on Thursday.Speaking at the inaugural session of ‘JIGNASA-2021’, an international conference on ‘Delivery of Public and Primary Health Services’, Narayan said that we need to find solutions to the challenges by making the best use of the available technology.“The post-COVID situation has made the world lean towards becoming virtual and it has been also proved effective. Technology would enable us to reach any corner of the world. We are in an advantageous situation as the state in general and Bengaluru, in particular, are at the forefront of technological development. We can make the entire world look towards India through the Ayush system,” said Narayan.“There lies a knowledge in our ancient science about attaining overall health through treatments of Ayush system. Now, modern technology can be made use of to cater to the health needs and to develop a holistic outlook,” he added||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/technology-helps-in-effective-delivery-of-health-services-karnataka-minister-101639077285101.html
10-12-2021||India||Karnataka high court asks for plan on stray dogs in city’s Cubbon Park||The Karnataka high court on Thursday directed the Bruhat Bengaluru Mahanagara Palike (BBMP) to produce an action plan to control street dogs inside the city’s Cubbon Park and restrictions to be put on pet dogs brought to the park by their owners. A division bench of Chief Justice Ritu Raj Awasthi and Justice Sachin Shankar Magadum while hearing a petition filed by Cubbon Park Walkers Association, regarding alleged illegal constructions inside the park, said, “We want to take suo-motu cognizance regarding Cubbon park. How are these dogs permitted in a public place? It affects the morning walkers. People who bring their dogs don’t even chain them, they leave them open, and there is no restriction in the movement for the public inside the park, no entrance fee or nothing is charged, why? How are these dogs permitted in a public place?” Responding to the petition, a BBMP official said that dogs are allowed in the park only Sundays, however, the bench observed that hundreds of dogs are being fed inside Cubbon Park. “... hundreds of dogs just collect at one place, and when you pass by them, they become very furious, they even chase,” the bench observed orally. The bench also noted that rules governing pet owners should be implemented strictly. The bench also pointed out that “pet owners are not following the right etiquette while bringing their dogs to the park. It is nowhere permitted, if you are keeping a dog you have to maintain it. It is not that you keep your house clean and dirty outside, it is difficult to walk on the road inside Cubbon Park. If they are not cleaned every day, you cannot walk because of these dogs”. (What does this mean?)Chief Justice Awasthi went on to recollect his visit to Europe and the etiquettes found among dog owners there. “Once I had an occasion to visit Europe and I was standing on the window of my hotel in the early morning. Hardly any people were there on the road, one person came with his dog, and the dog eased out in the middle of the road, and that person removed a packet from his pocket, and he took out a plastic packet and put the poop in the packet with his hand and threw it in the dustbin. I was just watching and said that is civilization. This is done by everyone there,” he said. “So unfortunate, educated people who are proud of keeping very good species of dogs, and when you talk to them they will tell you the pedigree of the dogs and then what they do on the roads,” the CJ added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/karnataka-high-court-asks-for-plan-on-stray-dogs-in-city-s-cubbon-park-101639077281089.html
10-12-2021||India||Deaths due to manual scavengingcontinue despite government’s Parliament stance||At the start of this year, 82-year-old Buranuddin lost his elder son, his son-in-law and nephew in an accident of manual scavenging in Kalaburagi district, about 573 kms from Bengaluru. His elder son Lal Ahmed and nephew Rasheed Ahmed died gasping for breath after being asked to remove a clog in a drain at Kailasnagar, under 2 kms from the city corporation office.. The son-in-law Rafique also died while Buranuddin’s youngest son survived after battling for life for days. They all worked for the Karnataka Urban Water Supply and Drainage Board (KUWSDB). Despite the Prohibition of Employment as Manual Scavengers and their Rehabilitation Act, 2013 (MS Act, 2013), which prohibits the practice of manual scavenging, it is prevalent across the country, with many like Buranuddin suffering daily. “They (administrative authorities) gave us compensation of ₹10 lakh, but the daughter in law took it and went to her parents home. Raju (youngest son) got just ₹50,000, and his job also has not been made permanent. Not much has happened for us,” Burhanuddin told Hindustan Times on Thursday. In Karnataka, the advent of social media has brought to light several such instances. In October, activist and advocate Vinay Sreenivasa complained that one contractor of the Bengaluru Smart City project was using manual scavengers to clear out clogs in drains, demonstrating the widespread prevalence of the practice even in cities where administrators and governments thump their chests to portray the prowess of the city in technology, startups and aerospace among other sectors to appropriate its aspirations of being called a “global city”. But the civic apathy in Bengaluru precedes its prowess in technology as poor quality of roads and public infrastructure, inefficient management of garbage, toxic and foaming lakes, unplanned expansion and lack of accountability have become the norm, said, activists. On Tuesday, the Union government told the Parliament that there were no deaths due to manual scavenging. “No deaths have been reported due to engaging in Manual Scavenging (which is lifting of human excreta from unsanitary latrines as defined in Section 2 (1) (g) of the MS Act 2013). However, 321 persons have died due to accidents while undertaking hazardous cleaning of sewer and septic tanks during the last five years,” the Centre said in a response to the Lok Sabha. Activists in Karnataka and other places have criticised the union government for “misleading the parliament”. Bezwada Wilson, the national convener of the Safai Karamchari Andolan, said that at least 45 people have died due to manual scavenging in 2021 alone, with Karnataka accounting for at least five deaths. “We may have succeeded in sending people to space, but we still have a long way to go when it comes to understanding human dignity. Manual scavenging involves people cleaning human excreta. Indian society, which is mainly guided by the caste system, has thrust this practice on people from specific communities, who are from the ‘untouchable’ castes,” according to the Safai Karamchari Andolan. Wilson said that Prime Minister Narendra Modi has focused on Swachh Bharat and built toilets, but the background of who cleans them continues to fuel this practice. “Uttar Pradesh, Bihar, Madhya Pradesh, Rajasthan, Jammu & Kashmir and several other places continue this practice (manual scavenging). Under Modi and Swachha Bharat, there is a focus on building toilets but nothing to liberate or rehabilitate manual scavengers. The dry latrines have not been replaced,” Wilson said. He said that the Indian government and state administrations have barely spent money on mechanization for scavenging. “The government’s focus is on building roads and connectivity but not on sewage or septic tanks. It’s embedded in their minds that there is an untouchable caste meant to clean these tanks,” he said. The Union government acknowledged the prevalence of caste in manual scavengers that has far deeper implications on the social fabric. In a response to the Rajya Sabha on December 1, Union Minister for Social Justice and Empowerment, Ramdas Athawale said that of the 43,797 persons among the total 58,098 identified in manual scavenging, caste data shows that over 42,500 or a staggering 97.25% are from communities classified as Scheduled Caste. Another 421 are from Scheduled Tribes, a similar number from communities classified as other backward classes. Calling such deaths as “accidents”, activists said is nothing but denial by “image-conscious” governments. “All the deaths have happened inside the manhole and not an accident and anyone calling it one has to be put behind bars,” said Wilson. He also said that parliamentarians and other elected representatives should prevent lying as the deaths, activists say, are “culpable homicide or murder” happening 10ft under the roads. An app was launched by then union minister for social justice and empowerment, Thaawarchand Gehlot called “Swachhata Abhiyan” to create a database on location of unsanitary latrines and identifying manual scavengers who can be rehabilitated. However, Siddharth KJ, a member of the Safai Karamchari Kaaval Samithi, said that the app where the documents are to be uploaded to identify, extend benefits and rehabilitate manual scavengers are being hit by one hurdle after another. “They have made the process very complicated and introduced components that are not part of the MS Act 2013. Because of which those who are still working are not being identified,” he said. SK Quasim, who works with the Bengaluru Water Supply and Sewerage Board (BWSSB) as a suction machine operator, was also a manual scavenger for many of his 30-year service. However, he has still not been able to get the loan amount despite submitting all his documents eight months ago to seek the One Time Cash Assistance (OTCA) announced by the government. Earlier this year, the Karnataka high court had to intervene and ask local authorities to survey latrines and manual scavengers. According to an official from Karnataka Safai Karamchari Commission, a statutory body that looks into the welfare of this section of people, the survey began on November 10. “We are using nation guidelines for the survey. Both urban and rural administrations have begun the survey and is expected to be completed by February,” said the official, requesting not to be named. He said that there are over 5,000 manual scavengers according to the 2013-14 survey. However, activists said that the number is at least 20 times that.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/deaths-due-to-manual-scavengingcontinue-despite-government-s-parliament-stance-101639077222094.html
10-12-2021||India||Govt to wait for another week before issuing new norms: Karnataka CM||After a meeting with the state cabinet and advisory committee, Karnataka chief minister Basavaraj Bommai on Thursday said that the government will wait for another week before issuing any new Covid-19 guidelines. According to a statement, the Technical Advisory Committee (TAC), headed by Dr MK Sudarshan, advised the government that there is no need for any panic and the Covid situation in the state is comparatively under control. “A decision on adopting new restrictions, especially to restrict the celebrations and large public gatherings and whether to impose night curfew and other norms during the Christmas festivities and New Year celebrations would be taken after reviewing the prevailing situation after a week,” CM Bommai said. “Regarding Covid, our Technical Advisory Committee (TAC) head Dr MK Sudarshan, has informed us about the current situation, and he has shared details about the Omicron variant. According to him, looking at the current figures and the positivity rate, there is no need for any major concern or worry,” he added. He further added that the government has no intention to implement a night curfew in the state in the wake of Omicron fears. “People need not panic about the new coronavirus variant Omicron. The decision on imposing night curfew will be taken after a week,” Bommai stated. Since most of the recent clusters were reported in educational institutions, the chief minister said that the government’s focus remains on Covid-19 clusters in educational institutions and hostels. Steps to reduce visitors, regular sanitisation of the premises, ensuring double-dose vaccination for hotel canteen staff and preparing isolation rooms are required, he added. “Special guidelines or standard operating procedures (SOP) for cluster management and hostels will be issued soon,” Bommai said. “We have already given similar guidelines for cluster management and have said that if there are more than three positive cases in a place, it will be declared clusters, and such measures will continue. Guidelines for students from Kerala, such as double dose vaccines or RT-PCR tests after arriving in Karnataka. will remain,” he said. Earlier on Wednesday, Bommai received an “informal” briefing about the Covid-19 situation in Karnataka from officials and discussed issues such as management of clusters and the Omicron variant. Intensive surveillance of testing at the inter-state borders of Karnataka-Kerala and Karnataka-Maharashtra would continue, Bommai said. The Chief Minister said his cabinet colleagues have suggested that a special drive to vaccinate people could be taken in the coming days as was done in May and June months of the second wave.Today’s Covid figures||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/govt-to-wait-for-another-week-before-issuing-new-norms-karnataka-cm-101639077220094.html
10-12-2021||India||TMC, Congress political approach must converge, says Chidambaram||Senior Congress leader P Chidambaram on Thursday said political approach of his party and that of the Mamata Banerjee-led Trinamool Congress must converge for good of the country.The former Union minister also appreciated a recent statement by Shiv Sena Rajya Sabha MP Sanjay Raut that the Congress must take lead in bringing together all UPA constituents to take on the BJP at the national level.“(West Bengal Chief Minister) Mamata is a friend of mine. I know over 20-25 years she has got a particular approach, we have approach. It is good for the country if the two approaches converge,” Chidambaram said at press conference here.His statement came in the backdrop of Banerjee’s recent remarks in Mumbai questioning the very existence of the Congress-led United Progressive Alliance (UPA).Queried about Raut’s statement, he said. “I have read Sanjay Raut’s statement, I think he has made a very responsible statement. What Raut says is that we need a non-BJP opposition in the country and the Congress must take a lead and bring together all UPA partners.” “I think that is a very sensible statement. I fully agree with Sanjay Raut. I think it is the correct initiative. We are ready to try but two hands must clap,” Chidambaram added.Raut, after meeting Congress leader Rahul Gandhi in Delhi on Tuesday, had said no mega alliance against the BJP could be thought of without the grand old party.Asked about an alliance between the Goa Forward Party and the Congress for the 2022 Assembly polls in the coastal state, Chidambaram said “The word alliance is used indiscriminately.” The former Union minister is the Congress’s senior observer for the Goa Assembly polls.“So far, we had one party leader (GFP chief) Vijai Sardesai who came to Delhi and said, “in order to defeat the BJP, my party offers support to the Congress’. Rahul Gandhi said we accept the support. All other details have to be discussed further,” Chidambaram said.He added his party will soon announce the first list of candidates for the Goa polls scheduled in early 2022.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/tmc-congress-political-approach-must-converge-says-chidambaram-101639077041734.html
10-12-2021||India||Coonoor helicopter crash: Second tragedy involving top-of-line Mi-17V5||Wednesday’s tragic Mi-17V5 crash near Coonoor was the second high-profile accident involving the Indian Air Force’s latest helicopter inducted in 2012, and the air force currently operates around 145 such Russian-origin choppers that are known to be advanced, reliable and safe, IAF officials familiar with the matter said on Wednesday.The twin-engine Mi-17V5 is the latest version of Mi-17 helicopter operated by IAF. India contracted a total of 151 Mi-17V5 helicopters from Russia in two separate deals. At least six Mi-17V5s have been lost in accidents since their induction began around a decade ago.On February 27, 2019, a day after the IAF bombed a terror base in Pakistan’s Balakot, an air force unit accidentally shot down a Mi-17V5 helicopter in friendly fire near Srinagar. The helicopter came down the day Pakistan launched its fighter jets to target Indian installations in Jammu and Kashmir in response to the Balakot airstrike.A surface-to-air missile hit the utility helicopter, killing six IAF personnel on-board and a civilian on ground and raising questions about whether the ground crew, including air traffic controllers, had followed standard operating procedures.IAF was on its highest alert levels that day as it expected Pakistan to respond to the unprecedented peacetime cross-border airstrike on a Jaish-e-Mohammed (JeM) terror camp in Balakot on February 26.The reliability of the Mi-17V5 helicopters cannot be doubted, said Air Chief Marshal Fali Major (retd), a former IAF chief and helicopter pilot. He had commissioned the first squadron of the air force’s older Mi-17 helicopters.“I have flown thousands of hours on the Mi-17 helicopters. Its latest version, the Mi-17V5, is a rugged, reliable and advanced platform. I have great respect for the helicopter. I am amazed how it went down. The inquiry ordered will look into every possible aspect of the crash,” Major said. He said the Mi-17V5 had the best safety record in IAF service.Air Marshal Manavendra Singh, who is the Air Officer Commanding-in-Chief of the IAF’s Bengaluru-based Training Command, has logged close to 7,000 flying hours in his 39-year career and operated in challenging sectors such as Siachen, the Northeast, Uttarakhand, the western sector and the Democratic Republic of Congo. He is one of the most competent officers in the IAF to head the tri-services inquiry, officials said.Developed by Russian Helicopters, the Mi-17V5 is designed to carry personnel, cargo and equipment. The Mi-17V5 can carry a load of around four tonne in a full cargo role. It can also insert assault forces behind the enemy lines, a role frequently demonstrated by the IAF during military exercises.The helicopter is equipped with modern avionics, a self-defence system and other advanced features that enhance its survivability. The Mi-17V5, which has an armoured cockpit, can be fitted with rockets, cannons and small arms for carrying out offensive roles. It has a service ceiling of 6,000 metres, top speed of 250kmph and a maximum range of around 1,180km with additional fuel tanks.“Any aircraft accident is shocking. The Mi-17V5 has a good flight safety record, it’s a reliable machine and pilots swear by it,” Air Vice Marshal Manmohan Bahadur (retd), former additional director general, Centre for Air Power Studies, said on Wednesday.The helicopter, capable of day and night missions in adverse weather conditions, has been extensively used in the Ladakh sector where India and China have been locked in a lingering border standoff since May 2020.
10-12-2021||India||Coonoor helicopter crash: ‘Shocked’, 'inconsolable' as families face sudden loss||At 8:45am on Wednesday, 27-year-old Lance Naik Boggala Sai Teja was on a video call with his wife Shyamala, in the village of Madanapelle in Andhra Pradesh’s Chitoor. It was a routine phone call -- almost every morning, Teja would speak to his wife and spend time virtually with their two children, Mokshagna (5) and Dakshini (2). But, on Wednesday, within hours of their conversation, Madanpelle village was in mourning, with Teja one of the 13 people killed in the helicopter crash in Coonoor in Tamil Nadu that also took the lives of Chief of Defence Staff General Bipin Rawat and his wife Madhulika.The grief were not limited to Madanpelle -- from Agra in Uttar Pradesh to Thrissur in Tamil Nadu to Takdah in the Darjeeling hills, communities came together in mourning, remembering their favourite sons.The call on Wednesday morning was a short one, Teja’s uncle B Sudarshan told HT. “He told his wife that he wanted to see his daughter, but went off very quickly because he had to accompany his boss to Tamil Nadu. He was appointed as the General’s personal security officer only seven months ago. Even his younger brother is a soldier posted in Sikkim,” Sudarshan said.In Thrissur, the family of 37-year-old Junior Warrant Officer A Pradeep Kumar still hasn’t mustered up the courage to convey to his ailing father, AV Radhakrishnan, on a ventilator for the past five days, that their son is no more. “He called up his mother on Wednesday morning, saying he was on an important trip accompanying the CDS and promised her he will be there in the weekend to look after his father,” said his brother A Prasad, now camping in Coimbatore. Prasad recounted that Kumar was part of several rescue operations, including the Uttarakhand floods of 2013 and the Kerala floods in 2018. That year, the IAF rescue team he was part of received a commendation from the President for their work.In the coal town of Talcher in Odisha, the family of 35-year-old junior warrant officer Rana Pratap Das was waiting for him to come home early next year. “He sounded upbeat and asked me what my plans for January next year were when he would be home. Till Wednesday evening we did not know that he was in the ill-fated Mi17-V5 chopper that crashed till we got information from IAF. For several hours I could not even venture to tell his parents about the death of their only son,” said his brother-in-law Sankalp Das.In Darjeeling’s Takdah, the family of 40-year-old havildar Satpal Rai, another personal security officer, was waiting not just for him to come home, but to retire.“Satpal wanted to take early retirement but General Rawat did not let him leave, saying they would retire together in 2024,” said Mandira Rai, the soldier’s wife.When Rai, whose father similarly served in the Indian Army and one of whose brothers is also serving the forces, spoke to his wife on Wednesday morning, they talked about him staying home and starting a business. “He said he would call me again after reaching Wellington. It was Diwali when I saw him last. When he came home he said he would retire and start a business. I have lost my husband but I am proud. He died for the country,” Mandira Rai said.Surendra Singh Chauhan, 74, is still unable to comprehend the tragedy that has taken from him his son, 42-year-old Wing Commander Prithvi Singh Chauhan, who was flying the ill-fated helicopter. Sitting in one corner of his Agra home, Chauhan said that the first time they found out about the tragedy was from television at about 6.30pm on Wednesday. “We could not get any official confirmation about the death from the Indian Air Force on Wednesday. My son-in-law in Mumbai left for Coimbatore where my son was posted,” he said.Chauhan said that his son was soft spoken, and close to the entire family. He spent several years away from home, studying first in Gwalior, then Sainik School in Rewa, and then joining NDA. “He last came home on Raksha Bandhan this year after 31 years. It was the last time that his three sisters tied a Rakhi to him. We are all shattered,” Chauhan said.(Inputs from Srinivasa Rao, Ramesh Babu, Pramod Giri, and Hemendra Chaturvedi)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/coonoor-helicopter-crash-families-face-sudden-loss-101639076800443.html
10-12-2021||India||Coonoor helicopter crash: Black box found, cause of accident under probe||The Indian Air Force Mi-17V5 helicopter that crashed near Coonoor on Wednesday took from the Sulur air base at 11.48am with 14 people on board including chief of defence staff General Bipin Rawat and his wife Madhulika Raje Singh Rawat, and it was scheduled to land at the helipad at the Wellington golf course at 12.15pm where a three-star general was waiting to receive them, officials familiar with the matter said on Thursday.The air traffic control at Sulur, however, lost contact with the helicopter at 12.08pm, 20 minutes after it took off, defence minister Rajnath Singh told Parliament in a statement on one of India’s worst air mishaps that took the life of the country’s most senior military commander. The helicopter was seven minutes away from its destination.Rawat was on a visit to the prestigious Defence Services Staff College (DSSC) at Wellington to address the faculty and student officers undergoing a one-year course there. The staff course at the tri-services institution is known to further career progression of young officers from the army, air force, and navy.DSSC commandant Lieutenant General Manmohan Jeet Singh Kahlon, who was commissioned in the armoured corps and has also flown army helicopters, and his staff were waiting at the helipad to receive Rawat.There were tense moments at the Wellington helipad when the Russian-origin Mi-17V5 helicopter, a reliable flying machine, did not land at its scheduled time or even minutes later, the officials said.At this point, it is not clear what went wrong with the helicopter in the final moments of the crash though the area where it went down did not have good visibility. A short video clip, shot by tourists in the area, captured the last moments. The video showed the low-flying helicopter penetrate dense mist over a hill. It did not capture the crash but the audio recorded a loud bang.A three-star IAF officer is heading the inquiry into the crash.Search crews on Thursday recovered the helicopter’s black box that could give vital clues about what went wrong. The black box, which consists of the flight data recorder (FDR) and the cockpit voice recorder (CVR), is a crash survivable unit.While the FDR records vital information including altitude, speed, vertical acceleration and other technical data including instrument readings, the CVR contains crew communications.The focus of the team investigating the crash will be on decrypting the black box data, a laborious exercise that could take days, the officials said.Accessing the data held in the black box will depend on its condition, said Air Chief Marshal Fali Major (retd), a former IAF chief and helicopter pilot.“If the black box is not damaged, decrypting it may not take much time. It could be done in a few days. But if it was damaged in the crash, the IAF may have to send it to Russia to decrypt the data and piece together what happened. It will give vital information on all technical parameters,” Major said.IAF had to send the damaged black box of a C-130J special operations aircraft that crashed near Gwalior in March 2014 to the US as it did not have the means to retrieve the data within the country. A C-130J flew the mortal remains of the crash victims from Sulur to Palam on Thursday evening.Major cautioned against speculating on the reasons behind the helicopter crash, and said it was best to wait for the investigators to come out with their findings.The chopper was flown by Wing Commander PS Chauhan, the commanding officer of Sulur-based 109 Helicopter Unit, and his co-pilot Squadron Leader Kuldeep Singh. Chauhan was commissioned in June 2002, while Singh joined service in June 2015. The other two IAF personnel on board were junior warrant officers Rana Pratap Das and A Pradeep, who had joined the air force in June 2006 and January 2004 respectively.
10-12-2021||India||Demand for legally guaranteed MSP could put fiscal strain, experts warn||Ensuring minimum support prices (MSPs) for a slew of agricultural commodities produced over two seasons a year, a key demand of farmers, will require higher government subsidies, which could have implications for the fiscal deficit and ramifications at the World Trade Organisation, analysts said.In a key concession to protesting farm unions, the Union government has proposed to set up a committee “mandated” to ensure Indian farmers get MSP for their produce. Farmers have demanded a legislation to make support prices a legal right.MSP is a federally fixed floor rate for farm produce to avoid distress sale. Since the government buys sufficiently large quantities of cereals at declared MSPs, these are not always available for commodities such as oilseeds, corn or pulses.Distress selling of farm produce and price volatility in non-cereals have been a major gripe among cultivators.If the government was to bring a law to guarantee MSP, which is unlikely, analysts said, state-owned agencies may end up procuring large quantities of farm produce so that the market price settles at MSP levels.“Suppose the government were to buy the marketable surplus of 23 main agricultural commodities grown by farmers, then the federal food subsidy bill could go up to about ₹9-9.5 lakh crore,” said Ashok Agrawal, an analyst with Comtrade, a commodities trading firm. That’s up five times from current levels of ₹1.7 lakh crore.Experts are still unsure of reliable administrative ways to ensure MSPs for farmers without concomitant costs.Economist NR Bhanumurthy of the Dr BR Ambedkar School of Economics University, Bengaluru, said he did not think a legal guarantee for support prices that cuts away from market forces of demand and supply would be practical.“It will be a huge fiscal shock and the government cannot keep tinkering with the markets,” Bhanumurthy said, adding, “Input support measures, such as cash transfers, are better than output support measures.”Some economists, such as PK Joshi, the former chief of the International Food Policy Research Institute, have argued that a price deficiency payment system could be an option, whereby the government pays the difference between declared MSPs and market rates to farmersThis option was implemented under the name Bhavantar Bhugtan Yojana by the Madhya Pradesh government on a pilot basis in the 2017-18 kharif season but was later abandoned.Joshi was named as one of the members of a panel appointed by the Supreme Court to look into the three controversial agri reform laws that were repealed this month after 14-month-long protests from farmers. The farm groups refused to engage with the panel on the grounds that the people on it had, in their stated positions, already come out in support of the laws the protesting cultivators opposed.One key issue with the price deficiency payment option was that farmers and traders could rig the system by settling for lower prices so that the government makes good the shortfall between market rates and MSP. Moreover, inferior quality produce could qualify for MSP rates under this system, as was evident in Madhya Pradesh’s pilot project.MSPs, which began with the Green Revolution, are set such that they offer 50% returns over cost but mainly benefit paddy and wheat growers because the government procures only these two commodities in sufficiently large quantities.Indian farmers receive lower-than-international prices for much of their produce because of increasing costs of cultivation, inadequate markets and the government’s policy to keep food prices low. This has worsened agriculture’s terms of trade, measured as a ratio of prices of agri-products to prices of manufactured items. The crisis, therefore, is not one of low production, but of low prices, experts say.MSPs are linked to cultivation costs, which are increased every year. They also have a bearing on inflation.Every 1 percentage point increase in MSPs leads to a 15-basis point increase in inflation, according to Nomura economist Sonal Varma. A basis point is one-hundredth of a percentage point.Economists say an MSP mechanism that ignores dynamics, such as demand and global prices, and creates distortions. If it is not profitable for private traders to buy at federally fixed MSP, when demand is low, then the private sector will simply exit the markets, they argue.In such a scenario, the government simply cannot be a monopoly buyer of all produce.The government already procures surplus quantities of rice and wheat, which often become unmanageable. The government on average holds at least 70 million tonnes of rice and wheat in federal stocks, whereas food-security norms require reserves of 41.1 million tonnes as of July and 30.7 million tonnes as of October each year.Economists argue that if MSP is made mandatory, then India’s agricultural exports could become non-competitive because the government’s assured prices are way higher than both domestic and international market prices. No trader would want to buy at a higher price and export at a lower rate.According to economist Ashok Gulati, the cost of procuring, storing and distributing rice to the poor comes to about ₹37 a kg. For wheat, it is around ₹27 a kg. The cost to company (CTC) of labour of the Food Corporation of India (FCI) is six to eight times higher than private labour. Therefore, market prices of rice and wheat are much lower than what it costs the FCI to buy them.Gulati was also a part of the SC-appointed panel the cultivators declined to engage with.The MSP policy benefits farmers only in a handful of states, according to government data.The 70th round of National Sample Survey showed only 13.5% of paddy growers and 16.2% of wheat growers actually received MSPs.Experts also say that while MSPs have incentivised foodgrains over other crops, they have given rise to serious imbalances of water and land resources and shifted land away from crops, such as pulses and oilseeds, necessitating costly imports. They add that MSPs, as administered prices, tend to distort market prices by often ignoring the demand side, international prices, export competitiveness, and ecological impacts of crops such as paddy.“Support to farmers can never be in question. But support in the form of MSP, which is market-distorting, raises questions, such as ‘whether can we move to other ways of supporting farmers that cause less collateral damage,” said Pravesh Sharma, a fellow at New Delhi’s Indian Council for Research on International Economic Relations.
10-12-2021||India||HC rebukes Ahmedabad municipal corporation over removal of non-veg food stalls||The Gujarat high court on Thursday rebuked the Ahmedabad Municipal Corporation (AMC) for removing stalls of street vendors selling non-vegetarian food, and wondered what the civic body had to do with people’s food choices.“How can you decide what people should eat? Suddenly because someone in power thinks that this is what they want to do? Tomorrow you will decide what I should eat outside my house?,” a single-judge bench of Justice Biren Vaishnav observed.The HC was hearing a petition filed by 20 street vendors, mainly egg and non-vegetarian food stall owners, but also fruit and vegetable sellers, challenging AMC’s action and the non-implementation of the Street Vendors (Protection of Livelihood and Regulation of Street Vending) Act, 2014, which, among other things, aims to protect legitimate street vendors from harassment by police and civic authorities.The judge added, “Ask your Corporation Commissioner to be present! How do you dare indiscriminately pick up people?”The judge asked whether AMC was following the wishes of the party in power. “Tomorrow they will tell me that I should not consume sugarcane juice because it might cause diabetes or that coffee is bad for my health.”Between November 9 and 12, the municipal corporations of Ahmedabad, Vadodara, Rajkot, Junagadh and Bhavnagar issued oral directives to officials to remove stalls and kiosks selling non-vegetarian food, citing religious sentiments, the health hazard posed by the smoke emanating from the stalls, and traffic snarls.The Vadodara Municipal Corporation said last monththat the “public display of meat, fish, eggs hurts religious sentiments” and that it “should not be visible. ” “It hurts the religious sentiments of Hindus on seeing non-veg food when they pass by the road,” Rajkot Mayor Pradip Dav said on November 9, while issuing the directive.Later, all corporations passed off their moves as part of an anti-encroachment drive.Justice Vaishnav asserted, “You don’t like non-veg food, it is your outlook. How can you decide what people should eat outside? How can you stop people from eating what they want?”When AMC claimed that the action was not targeted at stalls selling non-vegetarian food but those encroaching the streets and creating traffic snarls, the court instructed the civic body to release within 24 hours the seized goods of the vendors.The petitioners, represented by advocate Ronith Joy, pointed out that AMC confiscated their goods, including stalls, kiosks and other material, during the “anti-encroachment” drive. There are 125,000 street vendors in Ahmedabad city.The petitioners argued that they could not be summarily uprooted without providing them alternatives as envisaged in the 2014 street vendors law. They pointed out that the legislation has not been implemented in Gujarat.The law envisages the constitution of a 19-member Town Vending Committee by all municipal corporations with adequate representation of the vendors. This committee is required to conduct a survey and identify hawking and no-hawking zones.The petitioners also challenged the “deplorable, illegal, and unjust action” of AMC and the state government “in seizing the laaris/carts and other ancillary equipment/apparatus of the Petitioners coupled with the raw materials used to prepare food/snacks for consumption without following due process.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/hc-rebukes-ahmedabad-municipal-corporation-over-removal-of-non-veg-food-stalls-101639076201424.html
10-12-2021||India||Odia officer killed in Coonoor crash was planning to visit home next month||Two days before his death, junior warrants officer of IAF Rana Pratap Das was making plans to visit his home in the colliery town of Talcher in Angul district where his ageing parents live.Das, 35, who was among the 13 people killed in the IAF chopper crash at Coonoor in Tamil Nadu on Wednesday that also led to the death of chief of defence staff, General Bipin Rawat, wanted to visit his ailing parents Sribatsa Das and Sushma Das in Krushnachandrapur village of Talcher. “He sounded upbeat and asked me what my plans were for January next year when he would be home,” said his brother-in-law Sankalp Das, a leader of Bharatiya Janata Yuva Morcha. “Till evening we did not know that he was there in the ill-fated chopper that crashed in Coonoor till we got information from IAF. For several hours I could not even venture to tell his parents about the death of their only son.”After his parents and sister got to know about his death, gloom descended in their home. “It’s not just our village, but the entire country is in mourning,” said a villager. Das, who had put in a dozen years of service in IAF was married 3 years ago and has a son, one and half-years old. His wife Shivangi Singh, a dentist, also works in IAF. The mortal remains of Das are likely to arrive in his village by Friday.Condolences poured in from different quarters including Chief Minister Naveen Patnaik following the sad demise of the Odia Jawan in the fatal accident.“Deeply saddened by the demise of Chief of Defence Staff #Gen BipinRawat, his wife & 11 other Defence personnel in a very tragic accident in Tamil Nadu. It is an irreparable loss to the nation. Deepest condolences to the bereaved families and wish speedy recovery of the injured,” tweeted PatnaikUnion Minister of Education Dharmendra Pradhan described Das as an exceptional gentleman, who served the nation with courage, commitment and diligence. “Shri Das was from my hometown in Talcher. With his passing the country has lost a fine IAF officer and Odisha a brave son. I join the nation in sharing the grief and offer my deepest condolences to his family & friends,” tweeted Pradhan.Chief Minister Naveen Patnaik later moved obituary references in the Odisha Assembly for General Bipin Rawat, his wife, and 11 others who lost their lives in the chopper crash.“With profound grief, I rise to inform the House of the sudden and untimely demise of General Bipin Rawat, his wife Madhulika ji, and 11 other armed forces personnel in a tragic helicopter crash on the 8th of December, 2021 in Coonoor, Tamil Nadu. He had an extremely distinguished career of over four decades of selfless service marked by exceptional gallantry. He was conferred with the Param Vishisht Seva Medal, Ati Vishisht Seva Medal, Vishisht Seva Medal, and many prestigious awards. He expired on the 8th of December 2021 at the age of 63,” said Patnaik.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/odia-officer-killed-in-coonoor-crash-was-planning-to-visit-home-next-month-101639076141015.html
10-12-2021||India||Farmer unions say will review progress of promises by Centre||The Samyukta Kisan Morcha (SKM) may have suspended its 14-month long agitation following a written assurance from the Union government on its demands, but the fight for guaranteed Minimum Support Price is not over yet.Kurukshetra’s Gurnam Singh Charuni , among the top SKM leaders, said that the agitation has only been suspended and may resume if the demands of farmers are not fulfilled.“The next meeting of the SKM will be held on January 15 at Delhi to decide further strategy if the government fails to fulfil its commitments. We will not hesitate to resume the agitation again,” said Charuni .“The fight for guaranteed MSP will continue and we will not stop until we force the government to enact a law to ensure that farmers cannot be forced to sell their produce below the MSP,” said Charuni, who is also a member of five-member committee formed by the SKM to talk to the government over pending issues including MSP.He said that all the protests will end on December 11 and victory marches will be carried out across Haryana; he added that thousands of farmers from Haryana are expected to march to the Golden Temple in Amritsar to pay obeisance.Experts have maintained that a guaranteed MSP will prove inflationary, and also effectively reduce (even end) purchases by private companies.Charuni said that there is no change in his earlier plans to field own candidates in the Punjab assembly polls.“We will fight the Punjab election as we have announced earlier,” he added.Charuni announced on November 26 that while he himself will not contest the Punjab assembly election, farmers and labourers should field their own candidates to have a say in the policy making process. Farm leader Balbir Singh Rajewal during his visit to Karnal also threatened to protest Charuni’s political programmes in Punjab by showing him black flags like other politicians.SKM has already announced that nobody will be allowed to use its name for the polls, but Charuni insists that his plans stay and that he is in favour of farmers fielding their own candidates.
10-12-2021||India||Bill on pharma institutes gets Rajya Sabha nod||The Rajya Sabha on Thursday passed the National Institute of Pharmaceutical Education and Research (Amendment) Bill, 2021, that seeks to accord status of ‘institute of national importance’ to six more pharmaceutical institutions, besides setting up an advisory council for them.The bill, which was cleared by the Lok Sabha on December 6, was passed in the Rajya Sabha with a voice vote. It was introduced in the Lower House in March this year and later referred to the Standing Committee on Chemicals and Fertilizers.Speaking in the Upper House, Union health minister Mansuk Mandaviya said, “This bill has come with only four amendments. The first amendment is to give the status of national importance to all NIPERs (National Institutes of Pharmaceutical Education and Research).”“There is a Mohali NIPER which was given national institute qualification. After this, six more NIPERs were set up. There was no clarification whether they are of national importance. To clarify this and give them a national importance category is one of the amendments,” he added.An institution of national importance refers to an autonomous institute established under an Act, with the power to hold examinations, grant degrees, diplomas and other academic distinctions or titles. These institutes of national importance receive funding from the central government. The six pharmaceutical education and research institutes which will be entitled to the status are located in Ahmedabad, Guwahati, Hajipur, Hyderabad, Kolkata and Raebareli.Mandaviya also thanked pharmacists for their role in the world’s fight against Covid-19. “I thank 10 lakh pharmacists and workers, CEOs, MDs, chairmen who ensured medicine supply in India during the fight against Covid and supplied medicines to 150 nations,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/bill-on-pharma-institutes-gets-rajya-sabha-nod-101639075899020.html
10-12-2021||India||Winter session: MPs bring regional flavour to debates in Parliament||Biju Janata Dal MP Pramila Bisoyi, 73, doesn’t know any language other than Odiya. On Thursday, her brief speech on women’s empowerment—in Odiya, of course—during Zero Hour in Lok Sabha led to Lok Sabha Speaker Om Birla describing how he ensured she participated in the debate.Bisoyi, who established around 70,000 women’s self help group in Odisha’s Ganjam district, was not the only one to bring a regional flavour in Parliament on Thursday. Two other speakers, Dhanush Kumar, and S Gnanathiraviam, both from Tamil Nadu, spoke in Tamil.And although DMK’s K Kanimozhi spoke in English, she cautioned others that she might speak in Tamil every day in the House after she stumbled while pronouncing Atmanirbhar Bharat. When some members from the Treasury bench tried to correct her, she laughed and quipped, “See, this is the problem. You don’t understand we speak a different language. I’ll talk in Tamil henceforth, let me know if you can understand.”In the Rajya Sabha, where proceedings were mostly drowned by disruptions, a Tamil Nadu MP KRN Rajesh Kumar, made the first regional language speech in the winter session on Thursday.The Indian Constitution allows lawmakers to speak in their mother tongues in Parliament. Article 120 of the Constitution says, “business in Parliament shall be transacted in Hindi or in English: Provided that the Chairman of the Council of States or Speaker of the House of the People, or Person acting as such, as the Case may be, may permit any member who cannot adequately express himself in Hindi or in English to address the House in his mother tongue.”In both Houses of Parliament, simultaneous translation is provided for members who wish to speak in any official language of the country.In January this year, an official review showed that use of regional languages in the proceedings of Rajya Sabha has increased manifold in 2018-2020. While Hindi remained the most popular language for lawmakers, Telugu, Urdu, Tamil and Sanskrit were ranked second, third, fourth, and fifth respectively.According to the review, while Hindi and English were widely-used, the use of 21 other scheduled Indian languages saw a 512% increase in the period 2018-2020 over 2004-2017.The Upper House witnessed the use of Dogri, Kashmiri, Konkani and Santhali for the first time in 2020 while both Houses heard speeches in Assamese, Bodo, Gujarati, Maithili, Manipuri and Nepali after a long gap.While Rajya Sabha chairman Venkaiah Naidu has been a vocal supporter of the use of mother tongue in Rajya Sabha and elsewhere, Lok Sabha Speaker Om Birla, on Thursday, spoke of how he convinced Bisoyi, who couldn’t complete her matriculation course, to speak in the House.“This is the democracy of India, where there are people like Prasima ji, I specially wanted her to speak today. She told me that she doesn’t know Hindi or English and can speak only in Odiya,” Birla told the House.
10-12-2021||India||Farm protest is over, all eyes now on impact in political arena||The Union government’s acceptance of key demands of protesting farmers and the scrapping of three contentious agricultural laws after a year of protests were driven by looming elections in key states, analysts say.The massive demonstrations by farmers across states, brutal police crackdowns on protestors in states such as Haryana and the death of nearly 700 cultivators due to heat, cold and exhaustion forced a rare climbdown by Prime Minister Narendra Modi when he announced on November 19 that his government would cancel the laws.A turning point came when four farmers returning from a protest died when a car owned by the son of a Union minister recklessly ploughed into them in Uttar Pradesh.Political watchers said the rare climbdown on the part of the Modi government reflected the ruling Bharatiya Janata Party’s anxiety to regain support among farmers, an influential voting bloc in Uttar Pradesh, the country’s bellwether state which goes to the polls early next year.Elections are also due in Punjab, where the BJP is looking to truck with former Congress chief minister Capt Amrinder Singh, a state where farmers’ issues are crucial. How the BJP fares in the upcoming Uttar Pradesh vote will also set the tone for the Lok Sabha elections in 2024.“Over the course of the past 14 months of the agitation, farmers had been called anti-national, Khalistani (Sikh separatists) and what not? The country was watching this insult to those who feed the entire nation,” said Rakesh Tikait, a farm leader.Tikait, an influential leader of the Bharatiya Kisan Union from the sugarcane-growing belt of Uttar Pradesh, threatened to pull votes away from the BJP. “Yeh saaf tha ke inko vote ki chote deni hogi (We were clear that the BJP needed to be hurt through the ballot),” he said in rallies and soon after farm unions reached a deal with the Union government that will pave the way for a committee to look into agrarian issues.Tikait belongs to the powerful Baliyan khap among Jats, who dominate the political scene in western UP, where deadly Hindu-Muslim clashes broke out in 2013 that had polarized voters, helping the BJP.However, right-wing organisations affiliated to the BJP did not succeed in their strategy of creating a religious divide among farmers in western Uttar Pradesh and their “tactics of labelling farmers as anti-nationals flopped”, said Sudhir Panwar, who teaches political science at Lucknow University.Farmers also boycotted BJP leaders in Haryana and Punjab, and frequently prevented them from visiting their constituencies.Analysts such as Panwar said the Modi government was faced with the choice of either losing face by repealing the laws or losing elections. “It chose the lesser evil,” he said.While announcing his decision to abandon the unpopular agricultural reforms –the biggest during Modi’s second tenure – the prime minister said the changes were designed to boost farm incomes by opening up agricultural markets. However, he conceded that his government couldn’t convince a section of the farmers.Tens of thousands of agriculturists resisted the laws that provided for greater corporate role and investment in agricultural markets. They feared the changes would pave the way for the government to stop buying farm produce at assured prices and argued the reforms would have left them at the mercy of large corporations.“Elite reforms, such as a stock market reform, is easier to pull off than reforms involving millions, such as in the labour and agriculture sectors,” said KK Kailash, a professor at Hyderabad University.New political equations began to emerge in eastern Uttar Pradesh, in which the BJP’s rival Samajwadi Party took advantage of the protests to tie up with Om Prakash Rajbhar, who leads the Suheldev Bharatiya Samaj party.“So, the political situation in both western and eastern Uttar Pradesh was proving to be difficult (for the BJP),” Panwar said.
10-12-2021||India||Rapid growth in aircraft manufacturing, Scindia tells Parliament||India’s civil aviation industry is moving from nascency towards growth and progressing rapidly in the aircraft manufacturing sector, Union civil aviation minister Jyotiraditya Scindia told Lok Sabha on Thursday.In response to a question by Trinamool Congress member Sougata Ray, Scindia also detailed steps taken by the government to develop domestic manufacturing of aircraft and to increase the number of airports from 138 to 220 in the next four to five years with the aim of bolstering aviation infrastructure.“Civil aviation does not just consist of airline operations and airport operations, but also a whole ecosystem must develop. In order for that ecosystem to develop, the industry must go from nascency towards growth phase, which is where we are going,” Scindia said during Question Hour.He said Hindustan Aeronautics Limited (HAL) produced 80 AVRO planes, which are 36-seater aircraft, for commuter operations and the 19 seater Hindustan 228-201 aircraft to give a new impetus to the regional connectivity scheme.The minister said a joint venture of Boeing and Tata called Tata Boeing AeroSpace Limited was manufacturing Apache fuselages in India for domestic operations and export. “India has advanced tremendously over the last three or four years towards manufacturing full aircraft,” he said.Scindia said two Dornier 228 aircraft were already being manufactured in India for Alliance Air. “Under Make in India, today we are manufacturing the Indian version of Dornier 228 which is called the Hindustan 228 and six civil aircraft are under production with our internal funding of HAL,” he said. “We are also producing 19-seater light transport aircraft within India with CSR to give a new impetus to regional transport. The ALH-Dhruv (advanced light helicopter) is also being produced by HAL,” the minister added.In a written reply to Ray, the minister said that the Council of Scientific and Industrial Research (CSIR) developed an experimental version of SARAS, a multi-role seater civilian aircraft.Specifying the government’s measures to strengthen the ecosystem for aircraft leasing and financing in India, Scindia said in a written reply that under International Financial Services Centres Authority Act 2019, the International Financial Services Centres Authority (IFSCA) was established on April 27, 2020. ‘New tax regime was introduced from April 2020 to make Minimum Alternate Tax (MAT) inapplicable to domestic companies. Exemption has been provided from corporate tax for a block period of 10 years within the first 15 years for leasing units,” he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/rapid-growth-in-aircraft-manufacturing-scindia-tells-parliament-101639075540683.html
10-12-2021||India||5 Nellore pilgrims flung into stream after truck rams auto rickshaw on bridge, missing||HYDERABAD: Five pilgrims are missing after a speeding truck rammed an auto rickshaw they were travelling in, throwing the vehicle into a stream in Andhra Pradesh’s Nellore district on Thursday night, the police said.The accident took place at Sangem village at around 9.30pm when around 12 pilgrims were travelling in an auto rickshaw from Atmakur town to the village for prayers at the famous Lord Siva temple and an overnight stay in the temple premises.“As the auto rickshaw was passing on a bridge on Beera Peru stream, a truck coming from the opposite direction rammed it. As a result, the auto rickshaw flung in the air and fell into the stream. Since the stream was in full flow due to recent heavy rains, the pilgrims appear to have been washed away,” a police constable involved in rescue operations told the local reporters.Local villagers rescued seven people. “Others were washed away in the swirling waters of the stream. Since it is late at night, the search operation is becoming difficult,” a police officer said.The rescued pilgrims were immediately shifted to the government hospital at Atmakur. “Among them, the condition of a girl is critical,” the police said.Further details are awaited.
10-12-2021||India||Sikkim Governor trim securitycover opens Raj Bhawan for tourists to hike revenue||Sikkim governor Ganga Prasad on Thursday announced that he will trim his security cover and convoy to reduce expenses and open the gates of the Raj Bhawan for tourists from January 1 to generate revenue. Sikkim is one of most peaceful states in the country and he did not require any extensive security cover, the governor said at a press conference in Gangtok. Prasad, who also recently held the additional charge as governor of Manipur, said, “There should be a distinction between necessity and show off. Common people should not get harassed in the name of protocol and security arrangements for the governor. Sikkim is amongst the most peaceful states in the country.” Citing the example of Manipur, he said, “The extensive security arrangements should be trimmed. Or else, it would be a waste of government resources, waste of manpower and harassment for common people.” The administration makes elaborate arrangements with vehicles and security personnel for the governor and officials accompanying him during tours, he said. Prasad also announced that the Raj Bhawan in Gangtok would be opened for tourists from January 1. Tourism is a thriving industry in Sikkim and the Raj Bhawan, which has a rich heritage, will attract tourists and bring more revenue to the state, the governor said, adding that his official residence would remain open for four hours every day. Since Sikkim has been declared a fully organic state, Prasad announced that more organic farming will be done in the Raj Bhawan premises with focus on medicinal plants. A release issued by the state information department said the governor announced major changes in the present protocol system. The practice of district magistrates, sub-divisional magistrates, superintendents of police and sub-divisional police officers accompanying the governor’s convoy has been done away with since it drastically affects the daily functioning of these officials “thus causing inconvenience to the general public.” The governor said that the number of vehicles in his convoy has been reduced to only four or five to avoid inconvenience to movement of public vehicles. Prasad said these steps will not only reduce unnecessary burden on the state exchequer but also reduce pollution. 
10-12-2021||India||Amid Mathura-Kashi temple row, BJP MP pitches for Places of Worship Act’s repeal||A Bharatiya Janata Party lawmaker, Harnath Yadav, a member of the Rajya Sabha, on Thursday raised the demand for the repeal of the Places of Worship (Special Provisions), Act 1991, stating that the provisions of the law were “unconstitutional and violate the tenets of equality and secularism, which is part of the preamble.”The lawmaker’s intervention drew a sharp protest from some MPs from opposition parties, who have decided to write to the Rajya Sabha chairman to not allow such “submission during Zero Hour”.Speaking in the Upper House during Zero Hour, the MP from poll-bound Uttar Pradesh said the provisions of the law, which are “illogical” and “unconstitutional “cannot be challenged in courts and that this “clearly means that legal sanctity has been given by the government to the forceful occupation of the Krishna Janmabhoomi and other religious places by foreign invaders”.“This arbitrary and unconstitutional law has deprived Hindus, Jains, Sikhs and Buddhists of their right to practice and propagate their religion,” he said.The Places of Worship (Special Provisions) Act of 1991 prohibits conversion of any place of worship and provides for the maintenance of the religious character of any place of worship as it existed on August 15, 1947.And while it made an exception to the legal case around the Ram Janmabhoomi dispute in Ayodhya, all legal disputes in courts over any other religious places are considered closed by the 1991 Act, Yadav said.“The law also discriminates between Lord Ram and Lord Krishna who are both ‘avatars’ of Lord Vishnu.’ There cannot be two laws for the same acts and circumstances. And the doors of courts cannot be shut for citizens,’ he said.The Supreme Court admitted, earlier this year, petitions challenging some aspects of the law, including the cutoff date, and sought the response of the Union ministries of law, home, and culture.Raising a point of order, RJD’s Manoj Kumar Jha said, “The 1991 Act was passed by this Parliament itself to protect the idea of cordiality and harmony. Now, my learned friend has opened Pandora’s Box. The nation has suffered in the name of religious conflict. Let’s not disturb the social fabric of India,’ he said.Deputy Chairman Harivansh Narayan Singh who was in the chair said there was no point of order and all notices of MPs are admitted by the Chairman as per Rajya Sabha rules and any member who has objections can write to him.Speaking outside Parliament, Jha said the opposition MPs will collectively write to the Chairman against allowing such issues.“The Act was passed in Parliament in the heat of the Ram Janmabhoomi issue, it was decided that from now onwards no other such case shall be raked up in order to have a larger goal of cordiality. Now by allowing this in Zero Hour, in view of UP elections, he (Yadav) spoke about Mathura etc. We will collectively write to the chairman that such issues that have the capacity to brutally divide the nation further should not be allowed,” Jha said.A demand for repealing the law was also made last week by the Deputy Chief Minister of UP, Keshav Prasad Maurya who spoke of preparations being underway for constructing a grand temple in Mathura on the lines of those in Ayodhya and Varanasi. RSS leaders have also demanded a review of the law and its affiliate the Vishwa Hindu Parishad which was in the forefront of the Ram Janmabhoomi movement has been campaigning to “reclaim” the temples in Kashi and Mathura.Another BJP lawmaker from the Rajya Sabha, KC Ramamurthy pitched for the implementation of the Uniform Civil Code. He said Article 44 of the Constitution says, the State shall endeavour to provide for its citizens a uniform civil code throughout the territory of India. “A common civil code will help the cause of national integration by removing disparate loyalties to laws which have conflicting ideologies. In the Sarla Mudgal case, Justice Kuldip Singh emphasised the need for Parliament to frame a uniform civil code to remove ideological contradictions,” he said. Even as some opposition lawmakers disagreed, Ramamurthy said the objective of UCC is to unify fragmented personal laws for marriage, divorce, custody, adoption, inheritance, etc., and cover civil and human rights issues, because personal laws of different religions are dissimilar and hence violate article 14 of the Constitution which guarantees equality before law. “There are misconceptions about a uniform civil code, which needs to be explained to all religions,” he said.
10-12-2021||India||December 9: What we know about Omicron today||New Delhi: The first scientific studies have now almost unanimously confirmed that the Omicron variant is significantly more resistant to immunity elicited by vaccines and past infection. The variant was designated as being of concern (VOC) after it showed a clear ability to spread much faster than other configurations of the Sars-CoV-2.In the past 24 hours, three more analyses have been released, reinforcing some signs seen already and underscoring the next unknowns that must be determined in order to estimate the variant’s implication for the pandemic and infection control measures.Hybrid dosing better?A fifth antibody neutralisation study, by an Austrian team, corroborated findings by teams from South Africa, Sweden, Germany, as well as the analysis carried out by Pfizer: all show a massive drop in how antibodies bind to the Omicron variant, suggesting a hit to vaccine efficacy.The new study adds one crucial insight: a mixed vaccine dose appeared to be more protective than two doses of the same vaccine. The antibodies from people who received a first dose of the AstraZeneca vaccine followed by a shot of the Pfizer-BioNTech vaccine showed a significantly better binding ability than antibodies elicited in those who got the same doses of Pfizer-BioNTech, Moderna or the AstraZeneca vaccine, the study found.The Austrian study also confirmed that people with hybrid immunity – a past infection as well as a vaccine dose – were significantly protected.Decoding transmissibilityThe second new analysis was published by the UK Health Security Agency as part of its latest risk assessment and technical analysis of Sars-CoV-2 variants. The apex UK health agency now has high confidence that Omicron has a big growth advantage over Delta based on analysis of UK data “showing increased secondary attack rates” and “increased growth rates”.The growth advantage may be due to higher resistance or an inherently better ability of the variant to transmit more readily, the assessment said, adding that “it is most plausible that it is a combination of both”.Crucially, UKHSA refrains from drawing any inference on whether Omicron is more or less severe, citing a lack of data in these early stages of the variant’s emergence, and how the variant could impact the ability of current vaccines to prevent severe disease.The third analysis, by Kyoto University researchers, has estimated that the variant is 4.2 times more transmissible in its early stage than Delta.“The Omicron variant transmits more, and escapes immunity built naturally and through vaccines more,” Hiroshi Nishiura, a professor of health and environmental sciences, said in his findings, which were presented at a meeting of the Japanese health ministry’s advisory panel on Wednesday, Bloomberg reported.Key question nowWhy is the Omicron variant more transmissible? Is it an inherent trait (like it was with Alpha) or because it is leading to more reinfections? Or both?In an interview to The Wire on Wednesday, Dr Richard Lessels, a South African infectious diseases specialist involved in the studying the Omicron that was first found in the country, said studies have shown Omicron could lead to three times more reinfections compared to other variants if it draws its superior transmissibility from a combination of both factors.But if either factor plays a larger role, it could potentially help determine which infection control mechanism could help. A variant that is more transmissible largely because it is more resistant could likely be significantly blunted by booster doses and variant-specific vaccines (which will take time).Since people in older age-groups are still more likely to develop severe disease irrespective of the variant, booster strategies will need to target them first.On the contrary, if inherent transmissibility is a bigger factor, the variant could pose a larger risk to unvaccinated people since the chances of them being infected rises, and infection control could be better achieved via non-pharmacological interventions such as restrictions on gathering.The choice, then, could come down to whether efforts need to be redoubled to reach unvaccinated people (those hesitant, or children) or to roll out boosters. Data and findings on disease severity in different ages will also inform this choice.
10-12-2021||India||ED, CBI tenure bills passed by Lower House||The independence of institutions is the Union government’s top priority and its responsibility lies in facilitating and enabling their independent functioning, Union minister Jitendra Singh told the Lok Sabha as the House approved two bills to extend the term of the directors of the Central Bureau of Investigation and Enforcement Directorate on Thursday.The Central Vigilance Commission (Amendment) Bill, 2021, and the Delhi Special Police Establishment (Amendment) Bill, 2021 extend the tenures of the chiefs of the ED and CBI, respectively, from two years to a maximum of five years. An angry Opposition, however, raised several objections and then walked out of the House before the bills were passed in a voice vote.“There will be continuity, stability. Certain information which is confidential with the head of an investigation agency will remain with him till the conclusion of the cases. This is going to address this (pendency of cases) issue,” said Singh, the minister of state for personnel, public grievances and DoPT.On November 14, the Narendra Modi government pushed two ordinances to amend The Central Vigilance Commission Act and the Delhi Special Police Establishment Act to allow extension of the ED and CBI director’s terms, respectively. The amendments met with stiff criticism from the National Democratic Alliance’s political rivals.The government argued that the steps were necessary to fight major corruption cases. The two bills were approved by the Lower House after the government rejected a slew of amendments demanded by Opposition leaders.Singh said the bills show the declaration of the intent of this government and its crusade against corruption. He reminded the Congress leaders of corruption charges during the United Progressive Alliance era and asked Trinamool Congress leaders why the West Bengal government withdrew general consent for the CBI.The minister also underlined that, “the extension (for the CBI chief) is going to be by the same process by which the appointment has been made. Who is there in the selection committee? For CBI, the selection committee consists of the hon. Prime Minister, the hon. Leader of Opposition in the Lok Sabha, and the Chief Justice of the Supreme Court.”Congress leader and former Union minister Manish Tewari alleged that the extension was “arbitrary” and “capricious”, and added that a democracy was as strong as its institutions. “Over the last seven-and-half years, this government has made every attempt to dismantle the system of checks and balances of our constitutional system,” he said.He pointed out how the Supreme Court specified a two-year term for these posts to insulate the incumbents from any governmental interference. “By increasing their tenure from two years to five years, one year at a time will be like dangling a carrot in front of these officers,” he said,While Tewari feared that the extension of the term would “completely and absolutely undermine the autonomy and the independence” of the bodies, Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) leader Rajyavardhan Rathore claimed that the Modi government didn’t want to maintain status quo. “The Opposition should not look for one year, two years. Look for long term benefits for the whole country,” Rathore said. He also quipped that since Tewari said that the directors will act as representatives of the NDA government, the Opposition must have decided that their government will never come.Rathore cited corruption in the 2010 Commonwealth Games and infrastructure projects, and the 2019 Pulwama attack, and maintained that to tackle such masterminds, the system needed to be smarter. “Drugs, terrorism, human trafficking, organised riots, gun running, insider trading, ponzi schemes, frauds, betting syndicate, all these involve money laundering and if the root cause is found than all these organised crimes can be finished,” he said.DMK leader A Raja lashed out at the BJP and alleged that the ruling dispensation “misused” the office of the President to bring the two ordinances. TMC leader Kalyan Banerjee alleged that the Opposition was being targeted by the CBI “under direction of their masters”.Revolutionary Socialist Party (RSP) MP N K Premachandran objected to the ordinance on the ground that it was brought ahead of the winter session. Danish Ali of the Bahujan Samaj Party labelled the government has “government of ordinances” .||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/ed-cbi-tenure-bills-passed-by-lower-house-101639074698139.html
10-12-2021||India||India has a right to energy but does it need to fire more coal plants?||India has made a commitment to a net-zero target by 2070 at COP26. It may be difficult to pull this off unless necessary steps are taken to shift from coal towards cleaner forms of energy. But, here lies our bind. India has contributed just 3% of cumulative global carbon emissions as opposed to 25% by the US. Since coal is the only fossil fuel we have in abundance, it becomes an easy weapon of resistance against this global climate injustice. Instead of using that weapon, we should channelise our energies in negotiating for monetary compensation and technology transfer from the global North. After all, we need to fight both climate injustice and climate crisis and not privilege one over the other. Five simple charts can explain why India can and should be doing so.What is the nature of climate injustice and why we need to fight it?“Those who are least responsible, bear the brunt of it,” said George Monbiot, a leading environmentalist on climate change, capturing the nature of this injustice succinctly. To understand this, we divide the world into four parts — G7 plus EU, South America, Asia, and Africa to construct a climate injustice funnel. If each region were emitting carbon equivalent to its share in the world population, the figure would look like same-size rectangular blocks stacked one over the other. However, if the region at the top emits a significantly larger amount than the ones below, the plot would look like a funnel. The value mentioned for each block in the chart is the climate inequality quotient (CIQ), which is the ratio of their share in emissions to that in world population, and any value greater than one means that region is emitting more than its share. The picture speaks for itself.But ca
