11-12-2021||India||Man who stole Maradona’s watch held in Assam||A man who fled from Dubai after stealing a limited edition Hublot watch bearing the signature of football legend Diego Maradona was arrested in eastern Assam on Saturday.Assam Police arrested Wazid Hussain after a request was made by Dubai police to Indian law enforcement authorities to apprehend the fugitive. The watch face of the limited edition Hublot watch bears the signature and jersey number of Maradona, and the back shows the silhouette of the man, both hands held aloft in celebration.“A costly Hublot watch... Maradona... Dubai... Assam Police Looks like random words, don’t they? But today all these words came together nicely, stating a story of successful International Cooperation between #DubaiPolice and @assampolice,” Bhaskar Jyoti Mahanta, Assam’s director general of police, tweeted on Saturday.The limited edition watch has been recovered from Hussain, Mahanta tweeted. “The watch belonged to the legendary football player himself, which was being stored in Dubai along with other belongings in a safe,” the police chief said in the tweet.The prompt action by state police drew prise from chief minister Himanta Biswa Sarma. “In an act of international cooperation, Assam Police has coordinated with Dubai Police through Indian federal LEA to recover a heritage Hublot watch belonging to legendary footballer late Diego Maradona and arrested one Wazid Hussein,” Sarma tweeted. “Follow up lawful action is being taken.”Hussein was arrested from the home of his in-laws in Charaideo district early Saturday morning, Sivasagar police superintendent Rakesh Raushan told HT.Police conducted a search on Friday night, but Wazid was not at his home in Sivasagar, Raushan said. “We arrested him from Charaideo district, and based on the information he shared, we managed to recover the stolen watch from his residence,” Raushan said.Hussain worked as a guard at a private company in Dubai, which was in charge of security of a location where Maradona’s belongings have been stored, police said. In August, Hussain returned to India, citing the ill-health of his father.“As per the information we received, Wazid Hussian was working as a security guard at a company in Dubai in UAE (United Arab Emirates) since 2016,” a police officer said, requesting anonymity. “The company stores the belongings of the late Argentinian footballer. Before returning back home in August, he stole the watch.”Hussain had thus far not revealed how he managed to steal the watch and bring it into India. He did not sell the watch, afraid of getting caught given how distinctive the watch was, police said.There is a possibility that Hussain might be sent to Dubai to face consequences of his act. “But the decision will be taken by higher agencies,” Raushan said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/man-who-stole-maradona-s-watch-held-in-assam-101639247264851.html
11-12-2021||India||Farmers dismantle their shelters at Delhi borders||Tens of thousands of farmers began wrapping up tents and other makeshift structures at three protest sites on the national capital’s borders on Saturday as they headed home after yearlong protests against three contentious farm laws that have now been scrapped by the Centre.Farmers took out a victory march, sang, danced and organised feasts as they started dismantling tents used for the protests, with some of them saying that the entire process to vacate the three areas – Singhu, Tikri and Ghazipur – could take up to three days.After morning prayers and a victory march led by horse-mounted Nihangs, the farmers camped at the Singhu border started retreating from the protest site on tractor-trolleys decorated with flowers amid blaring music. While Nihangs displayed martial art skills and a decorated bus carried the Guru Granth Sahib in front of the procession, several onlookers threw flower petals in their path.A compromise between the Centre and protesting farm unions came after two days of back-channel negotiations that saw proposals being sent back and forth, and 11 rounds of tenuous negotiations that hit a deadlock on January 22. Prime Minister Narendra Modi announced on November 19 that his government was repealing the contentious laws and Parliament scrapped them on November 29.At the Ghazipur border, another protest site of the farmers, the first group of farmers left on Saturday afternoon for different areas in Uttarakhand and western Uttar Pradesh. Bharatiya Kisan Union leader Rakesh Tikait said that the process to vacate the area will take up to three days. “I will leave the site by December 15,” he said.To be sure, the three border roads where the farmers held sit-in protests are yet to open for vehicular movement. Even after most farmers vacate the streets by Sunday night or Monday, police teams from Delhi, UP, Haryana and other agencies will take some time to clear the roads. The National Highways Authority of India (NHAI) will then inspect the roads before giving a nod to open them for vehicular movement after over a year, an official aware of the developments said.Special commissioner of police (law and order) Dependra Pathak said: “We have started the process of removing the barricades and blockades that were placed on the Delhi side. The concerned stakeholders have been intimated about the developments and asked to take necessary steps to open the three borders. We are trying to open the borders and resume traffic on the roads as early as possible.”Barring the deserted section of the main Samyukta Kisan Morcha (SKM) protest stage, over 70% area along the Delhi-Jaipur highway was cleared by late afternoon at the Singhu border. With larger metallic iron frames yet to be dismantled, repairs needed on the carriageways and the concrete embankments made by the authorities in Delhi still in place, it will take a few more days for normal traffic to resume in the area, people aware of the matter said.The farmers from Punjab, Haryana, Uttar Pradesh and parts of Rajasthan have been camping at the three key border points at Singhu, Tikri and Ghazipur since November 26 last year to protest the now-scrapped farm laws. SKM member and farmer leader Balbir Singh Rajewal said the farmers won the fight and the central government forced to bow down. He also paid tributes to more than 700 farmers who died during the stir.Besides distributing sweets and taking selfies at the three sites, many farmers were seen donating some of their belongings to people in the area. Before departing in triumphant convoys, the farmers said that they were going with bittersweet memories. Iqbal Singh (63) and Labh SIngh (70) from Fatehpur Sahib in Punjab were seen clearing their tent. “We are helping clean the place before leaving. Singhu has been like a home to us and this place has given us many good experiences… Morcha fateh (victory) has been declared and we will head back to our fields. Farmers don’t rest,” Iqbal Singh said.While many farmers began returning to their homes when the final agreement was reached between the Centre and SKM two days back, the dismantling of makeshift tents and shelters along the Delhi-Chandigarh highway gathered pace on Saturday. Youngsters from villages in the area and locally hired labourers used jackhammers and cutting tools to wrap up the structures. In case of larger langar halls with metallic frames, cranes and excavators were being used to remove the structures.“There are ration stocks, cots, firewood and other relief material. It was a community effort to sustain the protest and community members are helping take everything back. We will clear the site by tomorrow (Sunday),” Dalip Singh from Huzoor Sahib gurdwara in Nanded said. He added that three trucks and two cranes have been brought to pack up the material gathered over the last year.Around 30km away, the Tikri border protest site witnessed a similar flurry of activity. Emotions ran high, as farmers hugged and congratulated each other on the success of their struggle, and promised to stay in touch with each other as they headed back to their villages. Gopal Krishna, 60, sat atop a truck with two others as he oversaw the dismantling of their makeshift home. Residents of Hamidi village in Punjab’s Barnala district, the lot was waiting to return by Saturday evening. “Back home, people are waiting for us. As soon as we all reach home, we will mark our victory and thank the people back home who supported us during the movement,” said Parminder Singh Pradhan, a farmer from Punjab’s Sri Muktsar Sahib.At Ghazipur, BKU national spokesperson Rakesh Tikait said: “This was our ‘training ground’ where we learnt how to face different situations and how to carry on long protests while tackling all weather conditions. The people who are part of this agitation will now go to different parts of the country and teach others how to deal with such situations.” Tikait shot into the limelight after his emotional appeal from the dais of the protest site on January 28 earlier this year. Farmer leaders said that the dais at the site will be dismantled and Saturday evening was the last time when speeches, including that by Tikait, were made from the dais erected on National Highway 9.Gyanendra Kumar Singh, superintendent of police (rural), said: “Some farmers went home on Saturday while others in large number of groups will start moving to their homes on Sunday morning. The gathering swelled on Saturday as people came to meet farmers before they go home and families of many farmers also arrived to take them home.”Emotions ran high as the farmers performed prayers to thank the almighty and started their “victory march” from Singhu, Tikri and Ghazipur protest sites to Punjab, Haryana and Uttar Pradesh in convoys of tractors, bedecked with colourful flowers and lights and blaring songs of jubilation.By Saturday evening, most farmers cleared the Singhu border protest site spread over 5-6km, leaving behind some tents.People gathered at many places on the Delhi-Karnal-Ambala and Delhi-Hisar national highways as well as other routes welcomed and honouring the farmers with garlands and sweets.An aircraft also showered flower petals on farmers at Shambhu border (Punjab-Haryana border).Because of the large convoy of tractor trolleys and other vehicles, traffic jams could be seen at many places on Delhi-Haryana national highway and other roads.Delhi chief minister Arvind Kejriwal took to Twitter to praise the farmers for their effort. “There is no substitute for patience, courage and unity. Only by mutual brotherhood and unity, the country move forward. This unity of farmer brothers was their biggest strength. My salute to the strong will and vitality of the farmer brothers who are returning home from today with a historic victory,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/farmers-dismantle-their-shelters-at-delhi-borders-101639247262314.html
11-12-2021||India||Wing Commander Prithvi Singh cremated with state honours in Agra||With moist eyes, family, friends and others bade adieu to Wing Commander Prithvi Singh Chauhan in Agra on Saturday. Chauhan was cremated with full state honours at Tajganj crematorium in the afternoon. His daughter Aradhya, 12, and son Aviraj, 7, lit the pyre. A resident of Saran Nagar locality in Agra, Chauhan, 42, died in Wednesday’s chopper crash in Tamil Nadu in which Chief of Defence Staff General Bipin Rawat, his wife and 10 others also lost their lives. Earlier in the day, the mortal remains of the Indian Air Force (IAF) officer reached Agra airport where Union minister of state for law and justice Prof SP Singh Baghel, IAF officials, Agra DM Prabhu N Singh and SSP Sudhir K Singh paid their tribute to the departed soul. Emotions ran high when Chauhan’s wife Kamini Singh Chauhan wife reached the coffin wrapped in the Tricolour. She stood composed as she guided her son and daughter who offered floral tribute to the mortal remains of their father. Then the mortal remains of the IAF officer were taken to his house in a military truck. All along the 8-km stretch from the airport to Saran Nagar, locals showered flower petals on the vehicle as a mark of tribute to the departed soul. A large number of people had gathered outside Chauhan’s house to pay their last respects to him. Family, friends and relatives were in tears as Chauhan’s aged father Surendra Singh, 74, and mother Susheela Singh, 70, broke down once the IAF personnel entered their house carrying Chauhan’s mortal remains on their shoulders. Later, the funeral procession was taken out in which people in large numbers took part. 
11-12-2021||India||Rahul takes a dig at BJP over panel report on 'Beti Bachao Beti Padhao' scheme||Congress leader Rahul Gandhi on Saturday attacked the Centre over its 'Beti Bachao-Beti Padhao' citing a parliamentary committee report which said that the government needs to focus more on education and health rather than advertising the scheme.Rahul Gandhi said that the Bharatiya Janata Party’s slogan should be 'chhavi bachao, photo chhapao' which roughly translates to ‘save image, print photos) instead of 'Beti Bachao Beti Padhao' in a tweet earlier today.Earlier, the parliamentary committee on empowerment of women flagged that the funds under the schemes were poorly utilised by the state governments and Union Territories while urging the Centre to focus more on education and health rather than on advertising.“The committee finds that out of a total of ₹446.72 crore released during the period 2016-2019, a whopping 78.91 per cent was spent only on media advocacy. Though the committee understands the necessity to undertake a media campaign to spread the message of 'Beti Bachao, Beti Padhao' among the people, they feel that it is equally important to balance the objectives of the scheme,” the panel highlighted.The panel said that since the scheme has managed to capture national attention and influence the national consciousness regarding the necessity of valuing the girl child it should now focus on making financial provisions in order to achieve measurable outcomes related to education and health, the aim with which the scheme was rolled out.“This is one of the most important schemes of the government to improve child sex ratio in backward regions and ensure education of the girl children, the committee recommends that the government should, hereafter, reconsider spending on advertisements under the 'Beti Bachao-Beti Padhao' scheme and should focus on planned expenditure allocation for sectoral interventions in education and health,” the panel observed.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/rahul-takes-a-dig-at-bjp-over-panel-report-on-beti-bachao-beti-padhao-scheme-101639244627374.html
11-12-2021||India||In self-reliance boost, India tests new anti-tank missile, longer range rockets||India on Saturday successfully tested a new locally-developed anti-tank missile and concluded a series of tests of extended range rockets also developed indigenously, weapons that will be inducted into the armed forces shortly, officials familiar with the developments said. The weapons successfully tested were the helicopter launched stand-off anti-tank (SANT) missile and Pinaka extended range (ER) rocket systems. “The successful tests are an important step towards achieving the goal of self-reliance in the defence sector, and have paved the way for the induction of the weapons into the armed forces,” Defence Research and Development Organisation (DRDO) chief G Satheesh Reddy said. The DRDO and Indian Air Force flight-tested the indigenously designed and developed SANT at Pokhran firing range on Saturday. “The test met all mission objectives. The release mechanism, advanced guidance and tracking algorithms, and all avionics with integrated software performed satisfactorily. Tracking systems monitored all mission events,” the defence ministry said in a statement. The weapon has a range of 10 km. The IAF’s Russian-origin Mi-35 attack helicopters are expected to be equipped with the missile to arm them with the capability to destroy enemy tanks from an improved stand-off range.The existing Russian-origin Shturm missile on the Mi-35 can target tanks at a range of five km. The other weapons on the gunship include rockets of different calibre, 500 kg bombs, 12.7mm guns, and a 23mm cannon. The existing anti-tank missiles developed by DRDO --- the Nag and Helina --- have an effective range of under five km. While the Nag missile is launched from a modified infantry combat vehicle (called the Nag missile carrier or Namica) and has a range of four km, the Helina or helicopter-based Nag is for mounting on the Dhruv advanced light helicopter and can strike targets up to five km away. A series of successful tests of Pinaka ER rocket systems were also carried out over the last week at the Pokhran range. The new rocket system has a longer range with reduced length compared to the earlier variant. “DRDO, after establishing the performance efficacy of the enhanced range Pinaka, transferred the technology of the system to the industry. The industry partner has manufactured enhanced Pinaka Mk-1 rockets with DRDO’s handholding. Rockets developed by the industry have undergone performance evaluation and quality certification,” the ministry said in another statement. While Pinaka Mk-1 rockets have a range of 36 km, the ER variant can hit targets more than 48 away and has been developed as per requirements of the Indian Army. The tests were conducted over the last three days. “In these trials, as many as 24 rockets were fired for different ranges and warhead capabilities to meet the objectives of accuracy and consistency. With this, the initial phase of technology absorption of Pinaka-ER by the industry partner has been successfully completed, making the partner ready for series production of the rocket system,” the statement added.
11-12-2021||India||‘If we come back to power…’: In Manipur, Congress promises this on AFSPA||Amid protests in the northeast against the contentious Armed Forces (Special Powers) Act (AFSPA), the opposition Congress promised in poll-bound Manipur on Saturday that if voted to power in next year's assembly elections, it would decide on the immediate and complete withdrawal of the law from the entire state in the very first cabinet meeting.Also Read | On Manipur visit, Conrad Sangma vows to continue fight to repeal AFSPA“In today's @INC Manipur PC by Working President & MLA Shri @meghachandra_k, the Congress demands the Manipur CM and govt. to press PM Modi & GoI for repeal of AFSPA in this winter session of Parliament, and the Manipur Cabinet for the immediate removal of the Act from the entire state,” Ningombam Bupenda Meitei, the spokesperson of the party's Manipur unit, tweeted.Meitei added that under the grand old party, AFPSA was removed from seven assembly constituencies of the northeastern state. “If Congress comes back to power in 2022, the 1st Cabinet meeting will decide on the immediate and complete removal of AFSPA from the entire state of Manipur as stated by Working President & MLA @meghachandra_k,” he posted.Congress rule removed AFSPA from 7 Assembly Constituencies. If Congress comes back to power in 2022, the 1st Cabinet meeting will decide on the immediate and complete removal of AFSPA from the entire state of Manipur, as stated by Working President & MLA @meghachandra_k.The controversial law, which grants sweeping powers to the armed forces in ‘disturbed areas,’ has come under the scanner in recent days following the killing of 14 civilians by security forces in Nagaland last Saturday. The killings were described by both the Union government and Army as a case of ‘mistaken identity,’ as they apologised and expressed regret for it.This, however, has failed to cut ice with protestors, with protests taking place across the region seeking an immediate scrapping of AFSPA. At least two chief ministers, Neiphiu Rio of Nagaland and Conrad Sangma of Meghalaya, have publicly demanded its withdrawal.Also Read | Nagaland resolution seeks repeal of AFSPAThe Nagaland government, last Tuesday, decided to write to the central government to repeal AFSPA. In a special assembly session, tentatively scheduled for December 20, the state government is likely to discuss, and pass a resolution seeking its repeal.In its manifesto for the 2019 Lok Sabha elections, the Congress had promised it would amend the law if voted to power.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/if-we-come-back-to-power-in-manipur-congress-promises-this-on-afspa-101639240658745.html
11-12-2021||India||Tiger spotted in north Bengal’s Buxa Tiger Reserve after two decades||A tiger was spotted at the Buxa Tiger Reserve in north Bengal after almost two decades, forest officials in West Bengal said. “We found a few pugmarks on the sand along the river inside the tiger reserve over the last two to three weeks. From the pugmarks it appeared that the animal was staying in the reserve. Thereafter, we set up camera traps. In the early hours of Saturday, one of the camera traps captured the photo of the tiger. It is a full-grown male,” said Debal Roy, chief wildlife warden of West Bengal. Officials said that though they could find scats and pugmarks of tigers in the tiger reserve in the early 2000, the last photographic evidence dates back to the late Nineties. “We are very happy. We were certain that there were tigers but there was no photographic evidence and hence many people claimed that tigers have vanished from the tiger reserve. Already two of our teams are camping in the area. On Monday a team from Kolkata will visit the spot,” said Jyotipriyo Mullick, state forest minister. Officials said that sometimes tigers come to the Buxa Tiger Reserve located in the foothills of the Himalayas from Bhutan and Assam. But this one seems to be residing in the area and not in transit. “We could spot tigers in the day light even in the early 90s. But as human interference increased, particularly in those areas where prey was found, the tiger population declined. Sometimes tigers used to crossover from Bhutan but they avoided the plains because of human interference. Buxa has a low-density habitat. We need to bring down human interference to bring them back,” said Pradeep Vyas, former chief wildlife warden of the state. Officials said that there are at least 11 villages in the tiger reserve. The state government is planning to rehabilitate them with the help from the Centre. “Plans are also afoot to bring in at least 20 tigers, including 14 females, from Assam and release them in Buxa,” said Mullick.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/tiger-spotted-in-north-bengal-s-buxa-tiger-reserve-after-two-decades-101639241802724.html
11-12-2021||India||Rajnath speaks to IAF Group Captain Varun Singh's father, in touch with family||Defence minister Rajnath Singh on Saturday spoke to IAF Group Captain Varun Singh's father Col KP Singh (retired) regarding the health condition of Singh, the lone survivor of the fatal chopper crash in Tamil Nadu which took away the lives of 13 on board, including that of  Chief of Defence Staff General Bipin Rawat. The minister is in touch with the officer's family, reports said. A day after the crash, the defence minister informed Parliament that Varun Singh was on life support and all efforts were being made to give him the best possible treatment.According to the Indian Air Force, the condition of Group Captain Varun Singh continues to be critical but stable, while his father said it is difficult to define the condition as there are too many fluctuations."There is so much fluctuation that how (my son is) cannot be defined. In the hourly monitoring, there are rises and falls. You cannot say. Everyone is discussing. We are in the best hands. He is in the best hands, rather," his father told PTI.Karnataka chief minister Basavaraj Bommai visited the Command hospital in Bengaluru on Friday and said his body has been majorly affected by burn injuries and doctors are treating him.On Saturday, the mortal remains of six more soldiers were identified and sent to their hometowns for last rites. There was a delay in the positive identification of the bodies as the severity of the crash made identification difficult. The personnel whose bodies were identified on Saturday include Wing Commander Prithvi Singh Chauhan, the pilot of the Mi-17V5 that crashed, Squadron Leader Kuldeep Singh, the co-pilot, Junior Warrant Officer Rana Pratap Das, Junior Warrant Officer Arakkal Pradeep, Lance Naik Vivek Kumar and Lance Naik B Sai Teja --- their mortal remains were flown to Agra, Pilani, Bhubaneswar, Sulur, Gaggal and Bengaluru, respectively.Later on Saturday, the bodies of Lieutenant Colonel Harjinder Singh, Havildar Satpal Rai, Naik Gursewak Singh and Naik Jitendra Kumar were also identified.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/rajnath-speaks-to-iaf-group-captain-varun-singh-s-father-in-touch-with-family-101639240205477.html
11-12-2021||India||TMC to give women ₹5k per month under direct transfer scheme if voted to power||The Trinamool Congress (TMC) on Saturday promised to roll out a direct cash transfer scheme for women in Goa if it is voted to power in the state after the Assembly polls due in February next year. Under the scheme titled Griha Laxmi, ₹5,000 would be transferred to a woman of every household per month as guaranteed income support to counter inflation once the party comes to power, TMC leader Mahua Moitra said. The party would soon start distributing cards for the scheme, she said, adding that these cards carrying unique identification numbers would become operational once the TMC forms a government in Goa. The Mamata Banerjee-led party has announced that it would be contesting all 40 seats in state. "The women from 3.5 lakh households in the state would be covered under the Griha Laxmi scheme as it will also do away with the maximum income ceiling, which is mandated in the current Griha Aadhar scheme of the BJP government in the state," Moitra, who is TMC's Goa in-charge, said. She said that the current scheme of the BJP government in Goa provides only ₹1,500 per month to women and it covers only 1.5 lakh households due to the income ceiling. "The actual implementation of Griha Aadhar scheme requires ₹270 crore annually, but the Goa government has earmarked only ₹140 crore annually because of which many people are not able to get the benefit," the TMC parliamentarian said. The projected expenditure for the TMC's scheme would be six to eight per cent of the total budget of Goa, she said. "Latest studies have revealed that COVID-19 has shrunk the country's economy, which needs to be revived," Moitra added. Earlier, the Aam Aadmi Party (AAP), which will also contest the Goa polls, has also promised that it would increase the remuneration provided to women in the coastal state under the state-sponsored scheme and also promised financial assistance to women not covered under it, if it is voted to power. During his recent visit to the state, AAP's national convener Arvind Kejriwal had said if his party comes to power in Goa, then the existing remuneration of ₹1,500 provided to women under the Griha Aadhar scheme would be increased to ₹2,500, while other women aged 18 and above, who are not covered under the scheme, would be paid ₹1,000 per month. On Friday, Congress general secretary Priyanka Gandhi Vadra, who was on a day long visit to Goa, had promised 30 per cent quota in jobs for women in Goa if her party came to power in the state. She had claimed that the ruling BJP's ideology was "anti-women", and asked people to check the track-record of the new parties coming from "outside" the state.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/tmc-to-give-women-rs-5k-per-month-under-direct-transfer-scheme-if-voted-to-power-101639239679708.html
11-12-2021||India||CDS chopper crash: 6 more bodies identified, sent home in special flights||The bodies of six more soldiers, among the 13 people killed in the December 8 Coonoor crash, were identified and sent to their hometowns on Saturday for last rites, officials familiar with the development said. The personnel whose bodies have been identified are Wing Commander Prithvi Singh Chauhan, the pilot of the Mi-17V5 that crashed, Squadron Leader Kuldeep Singh, the co-pilot, Junior Warrant Officer Rana Pratap Das, Junior Warrant Officer Arakkal Pradeep, Lance Naik Vivek Kumar and Lance Naik B Sai Teja --- their mortal remains were flown to Agra, Pilani, Bhubaneswar, Sulur, Gaggal and Bengaluru, respectively. Four families are still waiting for the mortal remains of their loved ones to be identified. These soldiers are Lieutenant Colonel Harjinder Singh, Havildar Satpal Rai, Naik Gursewak Singh and Naik Jitendra Kumar. The 13 people killed in the crash included India’s first chief of defence staff (CDS) General Bipin Rawat, his wife Madhulika Raje Singh Rawat and the CDS’s defence assistant Brigadier LS Lidder. Lieutenant Colonel Singh, one of the four soldiers whose body is yet to be identified, was Rawat’s staff officer. Rawat, his wife and Lidder were on Friday cremated with military honours at Brar Square in Delhi Cantt in two separate solemn ceremonies steeped in military tradition, with top government officials attending the heart-wrenching final send-off and thousands of men, women and children lining the road leading to the crematorium to pay their last respects. While Kritika and Tarini lit the funeral pyre of their parents, Bipin and Madhulika, 16-year-old Aashna performed the last rites of her father Lakhbinder Singh Lidder in ceremonies filled with emotion, honour and pride. The schedule for the last rites of the remaining four soldiers will be finalised after the “process for positive identification of their mortal remains,” is completed, the officials said. The sole survivor of the crash, Group Captain Varun Singh, is still on life support at the IAF Command Hospital in Bengaluru. A top three-star officer is heading the inquiry into the crash. Rawat was on a visit to the prestigious Defence Services Staff College (DSSC) at Wellington to address the faculty and student officers there. The Mi-17V5 helicopter took off from the Sulur air base at 11.48 am on Wednesday, and it was scheduled to land at the helipad at the Wellington golf club at 12.15 pm. The air traffic control at Sulur, however, lost contact with the helicopter at 12.08 pm, 20 minutes after it took off. The chopper was seven minutes away from its destination. The Coonoor crash was of one of the worst air accidents involving India’s top military brass and a setback to the ongoing military reforms in the country, the biggest since Independence. Rawat was spearheading the military’s theaterisation drive to enhance the effectiveness of the armed forces and reshape the conduct of future operations. The CDS’s shocking demise will have implications for the military reforms, including theaterisation, and the government will have to move swiftly to announce a succession plan. Army chief General Manoj Mukund Naravane is the senior-most military officer in the country after the CDS’s demise. Rawat survived a Cheetah crash in Dimapur on February 3, 2015. He was a lieutenant general at that time.
11-12-2021||India||News updates from HT: India successfully test fires SANT missile and all the latest news||Here are today’s top news, analysis, and opinion. Know all about the latest news and other news updates from Hindustan Times.India successfully flight tests helicopter-launched SANT missile. WatchThe indigenously designed and developed helicopter-launched stand-off anti-tank (SANT) missile has the ability to neutralise targets in a range of up to 10 kilometres. Read more here. Covid: 27 districts in 10 states show rising positivity ratesUnion health secretary Rajesh Bhushan urged the states governments and Union Territories to intervene if there is a sudden surge in the number of cases or in the positivity rate by ramping up testing and active case search. Read more here.'Look at what he has done for India': Ex-PAK skipper attacks BCCI; says board 'should've been respectful' to Virat KohliThe former Pakistan captain addressed India's ODI captaincy switch and insisted that the board should've been respectful to what Kohli has contributed for India. Read more here. Saira Banu cries as she steps out on Dilip Kumar's birth anniversary, Dharmendra, Subhash Ghai console her. WatchActors Saira Banu and Dilip Kumar got married in 1966. The couple was married to each other for 55 years before Dilip died in July this year. Read more here. Telegram vs WhatsApp: Fancy Telegram features that beat WhatsApp hollowTelegram has added certain features that WhatsApp can definitely copy. The Telegram features missing on WhatsApp include delete messages from specific dates, manage connected devices etc. Read more here. Snubbed China dubs US as 'Weapon of Mass Destruction'||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/news-updates-from-ht-india-successfully-test-fires-sant-missile-and-all-the-latest-news-101639235220833.html
11-12-2021||India||Tej Pratap calls uncle Sadhu Yadav ‘murderer’ after his remarks on Tejashwi's marriage||Rashtriya Janata Dal (RJD) leader Tejashwi Yadav’s maternal uncle Sadhu Yadav has hit back at nephew’s family after members of the party’s student wing burnt his effigy over his disapproving remarks on Tejashwi’s wife. Sadhu had criticised Tejashwi Yadav for marrying Rachel Godinho, a Christian. Accusing Tejashwi of doublespeak, Sadhu said that the RJD leader should seek votes from the Christian community in Kerala and Chandigarh."Tejashwi wants the vote of Yadavs in the election but has married a Christian. He should now go to Chandigarh and Kerala and seek votes from the Christian community. There is nothing left for him in Bihar," said Sadhu Yadav.The disapproving remarks and apparent objection over marrying a Christian girl didn’t go well with Tejashwi’s siblings who targeted Sadhu on social media, calling him a murderer and “Kansa mama”, a villainous figure in Sanskrit epic Mahabharata. Tej Pratap shared the images of Sadhu’s effigy being burnt by Chhatra Janshakti Parishad, RJD’s student wing, and dared his uncle to stand straight in front of him.हत्यारे साधु यादव का पुतला दहन छात्र जनशक्ति परिषद द्वारा किया गया।हमारी माँ-बहनों की इज़्ज़त को सरेआम बेइज़्ज़त करने वाले उस “कंस” को मेरा खुला निमंत्रण है कि अगर अपनी माँ का दुध पिया है तो मैदान में आके करले दो-दो हाथ।या अगर औकात है तो सामने में सीधा खड़ा होकर हीं दिखा दें! pic.twitter.com/5tzlbxd9uWIn another tweet apparently aimed at Sadhu Yadav, Tej Pratap said in Bhojpuri that the “elderly" should stay within his limits.रुकऽअ हम आऽवतानी बिहार तऽ गर्दा उड़ाऽव तानी तोहार..!बुढ़-बुजुर्ग बाड़ऽअ, तनिक औक़ात में रहल सिखऽ। पाजामा से बाहर आऽवल के कौनो ज़रूरत नईखे..!Tejashwi’s sister Rohini Acharya, who lives in Singapore, said Sadhu has proved that ‘Kansa’ still exists in this society.कंस आज भी समाज में मौजूद हैइन्होंने साबित कर दिया.रिश्ता निभाना है तो कृष्ण बनो दुष्ट कंस के जैसा अन्यायी ना बनो.. https://t.co/v2qjP7csYmFollowing the tweets, Sadhu said Tejashwi is free to marry whoever he wants but there’ll be serious repercussions if Lalu Prasad and Rabri Devi, both former Bihar chief ministers, “don’t control their children.”“These people have been mentally torturing me for 10-12 years. You (Tejashwi) are free to marry whoever you want, I've no objection... There'll be serious repercussions if Lalu Ji or Behan Ji don't control their children," the Bihar politician told news agency ANI.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/tej-pratap-calls-uncle-sadhu-yadav-murderer-after-his-remarks-on-tejashwi-s-marriage-101639235107747.html
11-12-2021||India||Despite Omicron scare, India to be among few economies to rebound strongly: Ministry of finance||Even as concerns over the new coronavirus disease (Covid-19) variant, Omicron, persist, with the country, thus far, logging nearly three dozen cases of the variant first reported from southern Africa, the ministry of finance has said that India will be ‘among only a few economies to rebound strongly from the Covid-19 induced contraction of 2020-21.’Also Read | India's Omicron tally rises to 33: Tracing Covid-19's new variant in various states“India is among the few countries that have recorded four consecutive quarters of growth amid Covid-19 (Q3, Q4 of FY21 and Q1, Q2 of FY 22) reflecting the resilience of the Indian economy. The recovery was driven by a revival in services, full-recovery in manufacturing and sustained growth in agriculture sectors,” the ministry said in its monthly Economic Review, news agency PTI reported.The recovery suggests kick-starting of the investment cycle, supported by surging vaccination coverage and efficient economic management activating the macro and micro drivers of growth, the report further mentioned.Also Read | India's GDP grows 8.4% in Q2 2021-22, compared to 7.4% contraction a year agoCiting the latest data related to the 22 High Frequency Indicators (HFIs), which stated that 19 economic indicators, in the months of September-November, 2021, were at levels higher than those during the pre-pandemic period, in the corresponding months of 2019, the ministry said that the data is evidence that the country’s economic recovery is slated to gain further strength in the remaining quarters of the financial year.Also Read | 19 of 22 economic indicators at levels higher than during pre-Covid times: Centre“Yet Omicron may pose a fresh risk to the ongoing global recovery. However, preliminary evidence suggests that this variant is expected to be less severe, and more so with the increasing pace of vaccination,” the Finance ministry said.The latest review also described 2021 as a ‘catch-up’ year for the global economy, including India’s, due to the effects of the Covid-19 pandemic.India has thus far seen 33 cases of Omicron, which is denoted as B.1.1.529. While the first two were reported in Karnataka, Maharashtra, at 17, has seen the highest number of Omicron patients. Delhi, Gujarat and Rajasthan have also logged cases of this latest Covid-19 variant.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/despite-omicron-scare-india-to-be-among-few-economies-to-rebound-strongly-ministry-of-finance-101639235361333.html
11-12-2021||India||Daughter of Wing Commander Prithvi Chauhan says she wants to be pilot; 7-year-old son wears father's cap||The last rites of the pilot of the Mi17V5 IAF helicopter which crashed on Wednesday killing 13 on board were performed on Saturday in Agra. Wing Commander Prithvi Singh Chauhan's daughter Aradhya (12) and son Aviraj (7) performed the last rites bidding their father a tearful adieu. Aradhya who is a Class 7 student said she wanted to follow in her father's footsteps and become a pilot of the Indian Air Force. He was her hero, Aaradhya said. "My father used to advise me to focus on my studies and not chase marks. He believed marks would follow if I focused on studies," she said.The video of the seven-year-old taking his father's cap and wearing it during the last rites has moved people to tears. This is so hard to watch 💔Son of Wing Commander Prithvi Singh Chauhan wear his father's Indian Air Force Cap during last rites in Agra.RIP Hero 🙏 pic.twitter.com/0v0XKAvvKVWing Commander Prithvi was born and brought up in Madhya Pradesh. His family moved to Agra in 2006 where his father started a bakery business. Recalling the last call with his son, his father 74-year-old Surendra Singh said he had a chat with him a few days ago regarding an appointment for his mother at the military hospital. On Wednesday, the family got to know about the plane crash from television.Uttar Pradesh chief minister Yogi Adityanath on Friday announced ₹50 lakh for the Wing Commander's family. The chief minister has also promised a government job to a family member. An institute in the state will be named after the Wing Commander, the chief minister said.The last rited of Squadron Leader Kuldeep Singh were performed by his wife Yashwanti in Rajasthan's Jhunjhunu on Saturday as thousands of people reached the village to pay tributes to Singh. He was the co-pilot of the helicopter.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/daughter-of-wing-commander-prithvi-says-she-wants-to-be-pilot-7-year-old-son-wears-father-s-cap-101639233966018.html
11-12-2021||India||Covid: 27 districts in 10 states show rising positivity rates||Union health secretary Rajesh Bhushan on Saturday wrote to the chief secretaries and administrators of 10 states and Union Territories over the rising positivity rates. Bhushan asked the administration of 19 districts in Kerala, Mizoram, Sikkim, Arunachal Pradesh, Puducherry, Manipur, West Bengal and Nagaland to keep a strict vigil as the nation reports new Omicron cases.Bhushan said that 19 districts in these states reported positivity rates between 5 and 10% in the last two weeks while eight districts in Mizoram, Kerala and Sikkim reported a positivity rate of more than 10% in the last two weeks. “These districts need to be monitored very closely,” the letter said. “In case of any district reporting a surge in cases, or rise in positivity rates, intensive action and local containment as per the containment framework must be initiated,” it said.“The strategic containment interventions in identified areas with test positivity rate of over 10 per cent or over 60 per cent bed occupancy on either two supported or ICU beds, include night curfews, restricting intermingling of people, prohibition of congregations (social, political, sports, entertainment, academic, cultural, religious, festival-related), curtailment of attendees in marriages and funerals or last rites, etc,” Bhushan explained further.He urged the states governments and Union Territories to intervene if there is a sudden surge in the number of cases or in the positivity rate by ramping up testing and active case search. The letter also highlighted the need to test for influenza-like illness (ILI) and severe acute respiratory infection (SARI) cases through rapid antigen tests (RAT) and retesting by RTPCR of symptomatic RAT negative tests.Bhushan, however, stressed that adherence to strict Covid-19 protocols is a must. He said that these norms must also be rigorously enforced and aggressively monitored. He requested administrators to regularly monitor at the state level if the guidelines are being followed or not.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/covid-27-districts-in-10-states-show-rising-positivity-rates-101639232893076.html
11-12-2021||India||HT THIS DAY: December 12, 1963 — Kenya is free; becomes 34th independent African country||Nairobi -Kenya became the 34th independent African country at midnight tonight thus emerging from 68 years of British colonial tutelage. Kenya has been unanimously admitted to the Commonwealth. This was announced by British Premier Sir Alec Douglas-Home in a telegram today to Kenya Premier Jomo Kenyatta, adds AFP. The telegram read: “I am very happy to let you know that all members of the Governments of the Commonwealth have agreed that Kenya should become a member of the Commonwealth when she becomes independent. We all look forward to welcoming you at our next meeting.” Mrs Indira Gandhi, leader of the Indian delegation to the Kenya independence day celebrations, today visited Kenya’s Parliament and presented the Speaker, Mr Humphrey Sale, replica of the chair of the Speaker of the Indian Parliament. During the rest of a busy day, Mrs Gandhi attended a garden party given by Kenya Governor. Mr Malcolm Macdonald, and the opening of an exhibition of Indian handicrafts.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/htthisday-december-12-1963-kenya-is-free-becomes-34th-independent-african-country-101639233522392.html
11-12-2021||India||Mass para jump to mark 50 years of Tangail airdrop dedicated to CDS, 12 other braves||A top general of the Indian Army on Saturday led a mass parachute jump at a premier base in Agra to mark 50 years of the historic battalion-sized Tangail airdrop north of Dhaka during the 1971 war with Pakistan, a critical operation that set the stage for surrender by the rival army, officials familiar with the development said. The Tangail airdrop is the biggest airborne operation ever mounted by Indian paratroopers. The army and the air force dedicated the parachute jump at Agra to India’s first chief of defence staff General Bipin Rawat and the 12 other braves killed in the horrific Mi-17V5 crash near Coonoor on December 8. Central Army commander Lieutenant General Yogendra Dimri led the mass jump involving 120 elite paratroopers and four veterans who took part in the 1971 India-Pakistan war. “General Rawat envisioned jointmanship amongst the services to touch the highest standards of integration and execution. The parachute jump was marked by precise coordination between the army and air force in the best spirit of jointmanship,” the Indian Army said in a statement. Rawat, his wife Madhulika Raje Singh Rawat and the CDS’s defence assistant Brigadier LS Lidder were on Friday cremated with military honours at Brar Square in Delhi Cantt in two separate solemn ceremonies steeped in military tradition, with top government officials attending the heart-wrenching final send-off and thousands of men, women and children lining the road leading to the crematorium to pay their last respects and raising slogans of glory for the departed The aim of the Tangail operation was to capture the Poongli Bridge on Jamalpur-Tangail-Dhaka road and the ferry site on Louhajang River to intercept Pakistan army’s 93 Brigade that was retreating from the north to defend Dhaka, the officials said. Around 750 men of the 2nd Battalion of the Parachute Regiment were involved in the successful mission. The paratroopers defeated a force that was three times numerically superior and shattered the will of the Pakistani army to defend Dhaka. Several veterans who took part in the Tangail airdrop and the subsequent operations in Bangladesh witnessed the commemoration of the landmark event at Agra. Lieutenant General Nirbhay Sharma, who was the adjutant of 2 Para during the 1971 war, was among those present. The veterans who took part in the mass jump were Lieutenant General RR Goswami, Major General Shiv Jaswal, Colonel Thomas Kochappan and Colonel Pramod Tembe. The Shatrujeet airborne brigade, consisting of the army’s finest paratroopers and based at Agra, was the centrepiece of high-altitude combat manoeuvres carried out by the army and the air force in the Ladakh sector in early November. The airborne drills in eastern Ladakh aimed to validate and showcase the Indian military’s rapid response capabilities, including inter-theatre movement of troops and equipment, precision stand-off drops, rapid grouping and ability to capture designated targets with speed and surprise at a time when India and China are locked in a standoff along the Line of Actual Control (LAC) in the sensitive sector. Other elements of the exercise include integrated battle drills by airborne forces, mechanised columns and attack helicopters.
11-12-2021||India||Factory owner dead, 13 hospitalised after gas leakage in Tamil Nadu's Erode||One person died and 13 others were hospitalised on Saturday following a gas leak at a factory dealing in liquid chlorine, police said. According to police, Dhamodharan (43), running the liquid chlorine factory near Chitode in the district, collapsed and died on the spot after the leakage from a cylinder he was refilling. More than 20 workers in the factory accidentally inhaled the fumes and 13 of them fell unconscious, the police said. On seeing this, the other workers went to the rescue and informed the police who, in turn, alerted the Fire and Rescue Services. The firemen plugged the leak from the cylinder. All the suffocated workers were removed to hospital where doctors declared them to be out of danger, the police added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/factory-owner-dead-13-hospitalised-after-gas-leakage-in-tamil-nadu-s-erode-101639231315752.html
11-12-2021||India||India successfully flight tests helicopter-launched SANT missile. Watch||The Defence Research and Development Organisation (DRDO) and Indian Air Force (IAF) on Saturday successfully flight-tested the stand-off anti-tank (SANT) missile from Pokhran range.The indigenously designed and developed helicopter-launched missile has the ability to neutralise targets in a range of up to 10 kilometres. It is equipped with a state-of-the-art millimetre wave (MMW) seeker which provides high precision strike capability from a safe distance.The ministry of defence said in a statement that the flight test achieved all of its mission objectives. It added that the “release mechanism, advanced guidance and tracking algorithms, all avionics with integrated software, performed satisfactorily and tracking systems monitored all mission events.”Defence minister Rajnath Singh congratulated the team associated with the mission.The slow-motion video released by the DRDO shows the SANT missile getting launched from a helicopter and precisely striking the target.Watch: DRDO’s helicopter-launched SANT missile precisely strikes targetThe SANT missile’s flight test is the third in the series of indigenous stand-off weapons to be tested in recent times after the Long-Range Bomb and Smart Anti-Airfield Weapon (SAAW), further strengthening the arsenal of the Indian Air Force. The ministry said that the indigenous developments with advanced technologies are a “firm march towards ‘Aatmanirbharta’ in defence.”Dr G Satheesh Reddy, secretary, department of defence R&D and Chairman DRDO, said the successful flight test of the SANT missile would further bolster the indigenous defence capabilities. The SANT missile has been designed and developed by Research Centre Imarat (RCI), Hyderabad in coordination with other DRDO labs and participation from industries.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/helicopterlaunched-sant-missile-successfully-flight-tested-from-pokhran-range-watch-101639230676290.html
11-12-2021||India||In clip shared by Kiran Bedi, Aashna Lidder recites poem from debut book||Former Puducherry lieutenant governor Kiran Bedi took to Twitter to share a clip of Aashna Lidder reciting a poem from the latter’s first book. The class 12 student's father, Brigadier Lakhwinder Singh Lidder was among those who lost their lives when an Indian Air Force (IAF) helicopter crashed in Tamil Nadu’s Nilgiris district on Wednesday, resulting in the demise of 13 out of 14 people on board, including the country’s first and sitting Chief of Defence Staff (CDS) General Bipin Rawat and his wife Madhulika Rawat.Also Read | Who is Aashna Lidder, the daughter of Brigadier Lidder killed in chopper crash?“This is the poem Aashna Lidder (daughter of Late Brigadier Lidder who lost his life in the Helicopter crash) recited this from her own book, on Dec 3, in the Friday Book Reading session. It was ominous when you listen to it. Life is very mysterious,” Bedi tweeted on Friday, hours after the army officer was cremated with full military honours in Delhi. This is the poem Aashna Lidder ( daughter of Late Brigadier Lidder who lost his life in the Helicopter Crash) recited this from her own book, on Dec 3, in the Friday Book Reading session. It was ominous when u listen to it. 🥲🥲😢 Life is very mysterious pic.twitter.com/svg6aIE3Gu“So, I’m going to be reading a poem of mine which I wrote on Independence Day and it is called Selfless Independence. It is called that because of how selfless independence is, how people are ready to give up themselves and their lives for a nation and other people, even though gratitude is not sure to come from the other end. They aren’t sure if you’re going to be grateful for what they’ve done but they still do it,” she says, sharing screen with the nation’s first female police officer, and five other participants. The aspiring writer then narrates the poem from her debut book, ‘In Search of a Title: Musings Of A Teenager.’ She says, “To the man that serves not for him but for us, to the man with ruptured organs, silent, creating no buzz. To the child that’s fearless, to a wife who is rudderless, to an incomplete family for a complete nation, to sacrifice beyond your imagination. To the man that buried his independence for you, for you and nothing more. To every fighter on land, on air and shore, for you we pray, for you we pray every way in every day. So, here’s wishing you a very happy Independence Day.”Also Read | Must give him a smiling send-off: Brigadier Lakhbinder Singh Lidder’s wife“This was a short poem,” Aashna Lidder concludes, as Bedi applauds her.The book was released last month, at a ceremony attended by, among others, the teenager's parents, as well as Kiran Bedi herself, and Madhulika Rawat. According to a media report, the book has seen a surge in demand in the days following the December 8 tragedy.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/in-clip-shared-by-kiran-bedi-aashna-lidder-recites-poem-from-debut-book-101639229517370.html
11-12-2021||India||18-month-old Maharashtra girl recovers from Omicron, 3-year-old boy asymptomatic||A one-and-a-half-year-old girl, who had tested positive for the Omicron variant of coronavirus in Pimpri Chinchwad area of Pune district of Maharashtra recently, has been discharged from hospital after recovering from the infection, while a three-year-old boy, who was also found infected with the new strain in the area, is asymptomatic and keeping well, health officials said on Saturday. The three-year-old boy is among the four new patients in Pimpri Chinchwad Municipal Corporation (PCMC) area. The three others are all adults - two males and one female. They are all contacts of the Indian origin woman and her two daughters from Nigeria, who were earlier found infected with the Omicron variant on their arrival here. India's Omicron tally rises to 33: Tracing Covid-19's new variant in various statesThe woman from Nigeria had come to meet her brother in Pimpri Chinchwad. However, apart from the woman and her two daughters, her brother, his two daughter, including the one-and-a-half-year-old, had tested positive for the Omicron strain, officials said. "Out of the six Omicron patients found earlier, four patients, including the one-and-a-half-year-old have been discharged from the hospital after they tested negative during their repeat test," an official said."Barring one female, who had dry cough, all the patients, including the baby, are asymptomatic and keeping fine. The woman, who had dry cough, also tested negative in the repeat test and was given discharge along with three others. The other two females tested positive in the repeat test and that is why they are currently in hospital, but they are also keeping fine," he said. The three-year-old boy, who is among the four new patients, is asymptomatic and keeping fine at the paediatric care. The other three patients are also asymptomatic and there is no cause of worry, Dr Laxman Gophane, medical officer of PCMC, said. Meanwhile, the only Omicron patient from Pune city, who has now tested negative, was also given discharge on Friday. He had returned to Pune from Finland, officials said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/18monthold-maharashtra-girl-recovers-from-omicron-3-year-old-boy-asymptomatic-101639228166022.html
11-12-2021||India||Punjab moves SC against extension of BSF jurisdiction, Sidhu congratulates govt||The Punjab government has approached the Supreme Court against the Centre's recent notification extending the jurisdiction of the Border Security Force from 15 to 50km. The suit was listed before the Registrar on Friday and the Centre has been asked to respond in 28 days after which the case will be listed before the bench.Punjab Congress chief Navjot Sidhu congratulated the government and its legal team for being the first state to challenge the extension of BSF jurisdiction. "The fight to retain the principles embodied in the Constitution i.e to retain the federal structure and autonomy of the states has begun... Notice issued to the Centre to respond," Sidhu tweeted. The fight to retain the principles embodied in the constitution i.e. to retain the federal structure and autonomy of the states has begun … Notice issued to the centre to respond. The ministry of home affairs in October amended the jurisdiction of the BSF and in a notification said that effective from October 11, 2021, the BSF can conduct searches, arrest suspects and make seizures up to an area of 50 km inside Indian territory from the International Border along India-Pakistan and India-Bangladesh borders. Empowered by this amendment, the BSF is now authorised to extend its jurisdiction in the states of Punjab, West Bengal and Assam. In five northeastern states (Manipur, Mizoram, Tripura, Nagaland, and Meghalaya), the BSF's jurisdiction has been curtailed by 20km while in Gujarat, it has been curtained by 30km. There has been no change in their jurisdiction in Rajasthan.“The central government has revised the ‘Schedule’ specifying the border stretch where BSF would have powers of search, seizure and arrest under Acts like Passport Act, NDPS Act, Customs Act as well as Criminal Procedure Code (CrPC) to Manipur, Mizoram, Nagaland, Tripura, and Meghalaya; UTs of J&K and Ladakh; and 50 km-belt in Gujarat, Rajasthan, Punjab, Bengal and Assam," the MHA notification said.Under Section 139 of the Border Security Force Act, 1968, the Centre is empowered to notify the area and the extent of the force's jurisdiction from time to time.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/punjab-moves-sc-against-extension-of-bsf-jurisdiction-sidhu-congratulates-govt-101639228928979.html
11-12-2021||India||Andhra govt gives ₹50 lakh to Lance Naik Teja’s kin, burial scheduled tomorrow||The mortal remains of Lance Naik Boggala Sai Teja, who lost his life along with 12 others in the military helicopter crash at Coonoor on Wednesday, will be laid to rest in his family’s fields in Andhra Pradesh’s Chittoor district on Sunday, his family members said.On Saturday, the Andhra Pradesh government announced an amount of ₹50 lakh for Teja’s family. He was the personal security officer of Chief of Defence Staff General Bipin Rawat and had travelled along with him in the ill-fated chopper.On behalf of chief minister Y S Jagan Mohan Reddy, his cabinet colleague and state minister for Panchayat Raj Peddireddy Ramachandra Reddy handed over the cheque to Teja’s family members at their residence at Eguva Regada village of Kurabalakota block near Madanapalle.Accompanied by deputy chief minister Narayana Swamy, Tamballapalli MLA P Dwarakanath Reddy, Chittoor district collector Harinarayanan and other senior officials, Reddy called on Teja’s wife Shyamala, his parents Mohan and Bhuvaneshwari and brother Mahesh and expressed condolences.The minister also promised that Shyamala would be given a suitable government job. “It is not possible to evaluate the death of a soldier. Whatever we do for the brave soldier’s family, it is not enough to match his sacrifice. We shall extend all possible help to the family,” Reddy said.Teja’s mortal remains were flown from New Delhi to Coimbatore and from there to the Yelahandka Air Force base in Bengaluru in the afternoon.“Though the authorities made arrangements to shift the body to the village immediately, we requested that it be preserved at Bengaluru till Sunday morning, as it would be very late in the evening to take the body to our village and we don’t want to do the burial in a hurried manner,” Teja’s uncle Sudershan told HT.He said the body would be brought in a military carriage on Sunday morning. “Hundreds of youth and friends of Teja will receive the body on the borders of Karnataka-Chittoor and from there, they will take out a bike rally along with the carriage up to the village at around 9.30 am,” he said.The burial is expected to be done with full honours in the agricultural fields of his family by 2 pm. “We are planning to erect a memorial at the Samadhi later,” Sudershan added.
11-12-2021||India||Maradona’s stolen watch recovered in Assam, one held||Assam Police on Saturday arrested a person for allegedly stealing a luxury watch that belonged to late legendary football player Diego Maradona.Wazid Hussein, resident of Sibsagar district of the state was arrested from his residence based on inputs from Dubai Police, informed the director-general of police The DGP tweeted, “As informed through Central Agency by Dubai Police, one Wazid Hussain had stolen a limited edition Maradona signed Hublot watch and fled to Assam. Today morning at 4:00AM we arrested Wazid from his residence in Sibsagar. The limited edition watch has been recovered from him.”According to the police, Wazid Hussian worked as a security guard at a private company in Dubai where Maradona’s belongings were stored. In August, he asked for permission to return to India as his father was unwell. Police are trying to receive the details if Wazid Hussian has any past criminal record.Diego Maradona was seen wearing two Hublot Big Bang watches during the FIFA World Cup 2010 when Hublot launched its Maradona Big Bang Chronograph Limited Edition.“We are interrogating him and further investigation is going on,” he told. Praising the effort of Assam police, chief minister Himanta Biswa Sarma wrote on Twitter, “In an act of international cooperation, Assam Police has coordinated with Dubai Police through Indian federal LEA to recover a heritage Hublot watch belonging to legendary footballer late Diego Maradona and arrested one Wazid Hussein. Follow up lawful action is being taken.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/maradonas-stolen-watch-recovered-in-assam-one-held-101639226442864.html
11-12-2021||India||Punctuality of trains reaches 93% from 75% reported in pre covid period||Indian Railways has improved its punctuality as a result of which passengers have been able to reach their destination on time. According to statistics from the ministry, 93.29% of the trains have been punctual from April 2021 to November 16, 2021. This is in contrast to the period between April to November 2019 when only 75.67% of trains used to run on time. This, according to officials, could be due to rigorous maintenance work during the complete lockdown last year. Officials also say that to maintain these coaches, they have increased their maintenance time for better performances. As per the official data, 68.19% of trains were punctual from April-November 2018, which improved to 75.67% during the same period in 2019 (pre covid). Explaining the reason for improved punctuality, a senior ministry official said, “Realising that not being able to dedicate required time for maintenance was one of the crucial reasons for poor punctuality rate, we decided to utilise the lockdown days to the fullest. Moreover, we also worked on the train table in a way that the trains are now able to get more time for their maintenance.” According to data sourced from the ministry, some of the trains that have improved their running status include, 20801- Magadh Express (Islampur- New Delhi) that has improved its running status by 11%, 12393/94- Sampoorn Kranti Sup Express from Rajendra Nagar (Patna) to New Delhi and return, improved by 5%, punctuality of Lichchavi Express (train number:14005/06)- Sitamarhi to Anand Vihar (Delhi) improved by about by 7-8%, Kolkata Rajdhani that runs from Howrah to New Delhi and return (train number: 12301/02), has improved by around 7% and Bihar S Kranti that runs from Darbhanga to New Delhi and return (train 12565/66) has improved its running status by around 8%. The ministry spokesperson said, “99% of trains have resumed operations. Around 1750 Mail/Express trains are running as of November 16. The average pre covid was 1768 Mail/ Express trains.” “Average maintenance time of a train has been improved. If we had one hour dedicated for a train’s maintenance, then today we have allocated three hours. This has been done to give more time (than before) towards maintenance,” a ministry official explained.However, a former member of transport said, “Improvement in train running status is a result of the number of trains on busy routes being lesser (than earlier) due to the pandemic, that led to restricted train movements. Due to this, the cascading effect of any failure would have been the minimum leading to increased punctuality.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/punctuality-of-trains-reaches-93-from-75-reported-in-pre-covid-period-101639225424463.html
11-12-2021||India||CDS chopper crash: IAF thanks locals, officials for assistance in rescue operations||The Indian Air Force (IAF) on Saturday thanked the first responders, including locals and police officials, for their assistance in rescue operations following the helicopter crash on December 8 in Tamil Nadu’s Nilgiris district, which resulted in the demise of 13 out of 14 people on board, including General Bipin Rawat, the country’s first and sitting Chief of Defence Staff (CDS).Also Read | CDS chopper crash: Tearful farewell to India’s fallen heroesThe force also expressed gratitude towards chief minister MK Stalin’s Office (CMO) and district administration for their ‘prompt and sustained’ assistance.“IAF thanks the prompt and sustained assistance provided by the Office and Staff of @CMOTamilNadu, @collrnlg, Police officials and locals from Katteri village in the rescue and salvage operation after the unfortunate helicopter accident,” it tweeted. IAF thanks the prompt and sustained assistance provided by the Office and Staff of @CMOTamilnadu, @collrnlg, Police officials and locals from Katteri village in the rescue and salvage operation after the unfortunate helicopter accident.Wednesday’s crash took place when General Rawat was on his way to the Wellington-based Defence Services Staff College (DSSC), where he was scheduled to deliver a lecture. Also present on board were the defence chief’s wife Madhulika Rawat, and members of his staff: Brigadier LS Lidder, Lieutenant Colonel Harjinder Singh, Havildar Satpal Rai, Naik Gursewak Singh, Naik Jitendra Kumar, Lance Naik Vivek Kumar and Lance Naik B Sai Teja.From the IAF, Wing Commander Prithvi Singh Chauhan was piloting the chopper, while Squadron Leader Kuldeep Singh was his co-pilot. Group Captain Varun Singh, and Junior Warrant Officers Rana Pratap Das and Arakkal Pradeep were also on board the ill-fated Mi-17V5.Group Captain Singh, who is the sole survivor, was to be General Rawat’s liaison officer at the DSSC. A Shaurya Chakra awardee, he is currently being treated at a Bengaluru-based military hospital, where his condition is said to be ‘critical.’Also Read | Chopper crash: Varun Singh's condition 'fluctuating'; father says he's a fighterDefence minister Rajnath Singh announced in Parliament on Thursday, a day after the tragedy, that a tri-service Court of Inquiry (CoI), headed by Air Marshal Manvendra Singh, has been constituted to probe the crash. On Friday, after the emergence of a video, allegedly of the last moments of the helicopter, the IAF urged everyone to ‘respect the dignity of the deceased’ and ‘avoid uninformed speculation.’||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/cds-chopper-crash-iaf-thanks-locals-officials-for-assistance-in-rescue-operations-101639224438311.html
11-12-2021||India||IAF chopper crash: Survivor Varun Singh's condition 'fluctuating'; father says he's a fighter||The sole survivor of the Mi-17V5 helicopter crash IAF Group Captain Varun Singh is being treated at Bengaluru's command hospital and his health condition is fluctuating, his father said on Saturday. "He will come out victorious. He is a fighter. He will come out," Singh told PTI over the telephone, expressing full confidence in the treatment that Varun is getting. "There is so much fluctuation that how (my son is) cannot be defined. In the hourly monitoring, there are rises and falls. You cannot say. Everyone is discussing. We are in the best hands. He is in the best hands, rather," Varun Singh's father Colonel K P Singh (retired) said."The best medical facility, the best experts are treating him. The prayer of the whole country is there. I am emotionally moved as a lot of people who don't know him or are retired or serving have come to meet him. That is the kind of love and affection one has got," he said.IAF officials on Saturday said Group Captain Varun's health condition remained critical but stable.Varun Singh is a miracle survivor of the IAF chopper crash in which all other 13 people on board, including Chief of Defence Staff Bipin Rawat, died.After being rescued from the crash site, Varun Singh was initially admitted to a hospital at Wellington in the Nilgiris where the crash took place. Later, he was shifted to Air Force's Command Hospital in Bengaluru.Karnataka chief minister Basavaraj Bommai on Friday visited Varun at the hospital and said he was getting the best treatment under the supervision of expert doctors. "Most of his (Singh) body is affected by burn injuries and he is being treated for it. I pray to God for his speedy recovery," Bommai said.A day after the fatal crash, defence minister Rajnath Singh on Thursday informed Parliament that Singh was on life support and that all efforts were being made to save him.Group Captain Singh was on board the chopper as the liaison officer for Gen Rawat's visit to the Defence Services Staff College in Wellington. He was posted as an instructor at the institute. He received Gen Rawat at the Sulur airbase from where the entourage flew towards Wellington. About seven minutes before the chopper was to reach its destination, the control room of the Sulur airbase lost contact with the chopper.Varun Singh was honoured with the Shaurya Chakra by President Ram Nath Kovind this year.(With agency inputs)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/chopper-crash-varun-singh-s-condition-fluctuating-father-says-he-s-a-fighter-101639223236204.html
11-12-2021||India||Sharad Pawar red-flagged BJP's divisive methods 25 years ago, Shiv Sena realised truth in 2019: Sanjay Raut||It took Shiv Sena years to realise that Bharatiya Janata Party’s methods were divisive, something Nationalist Congress Party chief Shard Pawar had flagged about 25 years ago, Sena leader Sanjay Raut said on Saturday. The Rajya Sabha member, known for his sharp remark against opposition and critics, said the NCP chief had also warned that the "regressive" policies of the BJP would take the country in a backward direction but the Shiv Sena took a “long time to realise” it.“Some 25 years ago, Sharad Pawar had said that BJP did not want unity in the country. Its methods are divisive. We realised this two years back. He had also said that BJP's policies were regressive which would take the country back. However, we took a long time to realise it,” news agency PTI quoted Raut as saying.The Sena MP was speaking at a book launch where a collection of Sharad Pawar's speeches in Marathi at various political rallies was released. Referring to the book’s title ‘Nemkechi Bolane’, Raut said the book should be gifted to Prime Minister Narendra Modi as he “needs to know certain things”. ‘Nemkechi Bolane’ roughly translates to speaking with brevity.“The name of the book is so good that we all should gift it to Prime Minister Narendra Modi. He needs to know certain things,” he said, as quoted by PTI.Why is the Sena expressing solidarity with the Congress?The Rajya Sabha member said the Central Hall of the Parliament used to be known for meetings and discussions among leaders across political parties and journalists but this has changed in the last few years.“We have seen that those who try to raise questions are being opposed and muzzled,” he alleged,” Raut noted.Shiv Sena founder Balasaheb Thackeray’s son and political heir Uddhav Thackeray severed ties with the Bharatiya Janata Party after the Maharashtra Assembly elections in 2019 over power-sharing formula. He formed the government with NCP and Congress after weeks of high-voltage drama and became Maharashtra’s chief minister.(With agency inputs)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/sharad-pawar-flagged-bjp-s-divisive-methods-25-years-ago-shiv-sena-realised-truth-in-2019-sanjay-raut-101639222745150.html
11-12-2021||India||Dhankhar accuses Mamata of creating problems between BSF, West Bengal police||West Bengal governor Jagdeep Dhankhar criticised chief minister Mamata Banerjee for making attempts to create unrest between the Border Security Force (BSF) and the West Bengal police. Dhankar was referring to Banerjee's recent order where she asked the West Bengal police to not allow BSF soldiers outside the BSF’s jurisdiction of 15km.Mamata Banerjee is among those chief ministers who opposed the Centre’s decision to extend the jurisdiction of the Border Security Force (BSF) to 50 km from the prior limit of 15 km in the states which share borders with Pakistan and Bangladesh. The Centre has also given the paramilitary force power to conduct searches, arrest suspects and make seizures.“BSF is working for the country's safety. Regarding the jurisdiction, it was decided that they will operate in a range of 50 km. Then why does the CM talk about a 15 km range and create problems between the local police and BSF?” Dhankhar was quoted as saying by news agency ANI.Mamata earlier on December 9 issued this directive to the state police asking them to not allow BSF personnel to enter the villages which are outside its jurisdiction without permission.“In a state having international borders with Bangladesh, Nepal and Bhutan, the BSF and Central Armed Police Forces play a significantly well-defined and crucial role from the perspective of national security and containing criminal illegal activities. There is an obvious need to generate bonhomie and not confrontation: cooperation and not combat amongst these agencies and State apparatus,” the Bengal governor further said.He also said that the law and order agencies of the state government and the Central Armed Police Forces (CAPF) should play their roles and do their duties in a synergic manner to ensure cooperation as well as maintain overall safety and security.The BSF, which earlier was empowered to take action up to 15 kilometre in Punjab, West Bengal, and Assam, is now authorised to extend its jurisdiction up to 50 km without any hurdle or permission from either central or state governments.The jurisdiction of the BSF, however, was cut short by 20 km in Manipur, Mizoram, Tripura, Nagaland, and Meghalaya, where its jurisdiction was earlier 80 km. In Gujarat, the BSF's jurisdiction was curtailed from 80 to 50 km. In Rajasthan, the BSF's area of jurisdiction remains the same at 50 km.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/dhankhar-accuses-mamata-of-creating-problems-between-bsf-west-bengal-police-101639219502605.html
11-12-2021||India||TMC promises ₹5,000 per family per month if voted to power in Goa||The Trinamool Congress in Goa has promised ₹5,000 per family per month under a ‘Griha Laxmi Scheme’ to help tide over inflation and meet household expenses, TMC MP Mahua Moitra announced. The scheme, she said, would be universal and given to all the estimated 3.5 lakh households in Goa amounting to ₹60,000 per year. “The monthly benefit of ₹5,000 will be made available through direct benefit cash transfer. 3.51 lakh households will be covered under the scheme. This is going to be universal coverage -- you don’t have to belong to any backward caste or community, you don’t have to belong to any economically deprived section. It is going to be for everyone,” she announced. “The ‘Griha Laxmi’ initiative is a pioneering and transformative scheme for the people of Goa. The scheme has already been implemented in West Bengal,” she added. Explaining the rationale behind the announcement, Moitra said that the need of the hour was to ensure that there was money in people’s hands especially after the twin disasters of demonetization and the Covid-19 lockdown which ensured that people had no money to spend. “Economists like Abhijit Banerjee have said that the best thing to kickstart the economy and the local economy is to give them more cash in their hands. If a woman gets Rs. 5000 in her hand, she can buy clothes for the children, medicine. That money goes into the economy faster. The multiplier effect is faster. This is not the time when governments should look at inflationary pressure. This is the time they should look at liquidity and pump in money,” Moitra said. “The budgetary allocation for this is going to be between ₹1500 to 2,000 crore which is 6-8% of Goa’s budget,” she added. Goa already has a scheme that was begun by former Chief Minister Manohar Parrikar in 2012 called the Griha Aadhar scheme which gives a family ₹1500 per month but is offered only to the economically weaker section of Goan society that is -- the gross income of the husband and wife, taken together should not exceed ₹3-lakh per annum to be eligible for the scheme. Earlier, the Aam Aadmi Party in Goa had promised to hike the existing monthly amount by ₹1,000 from ₹1500 to ₹2,500. The BJP has termed the announcement by the TMC as an election gimmick aimed only at garnering votes. “The original idea belongs to Manohar Parrikar who had brought about the Griha Aadhar Scheme which was basically to empower women and make them independent and that scheme has come a long way. These are nothing but ways to buy votes and not really empower women. This is an election gimmick,” BJP spokesperson Narendra Sawaikar said. “Both AAP and TMC [are] in a competition of who will give more free money as a promise to women. Both know they won’t win a single seat so they can promise whatever they want,” Congress Social Media coordinator Hasiba Amin, said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/tmc-promises-rs-5-000-per-family-per-month-if-voted-to-power-in-goa-101639221641212.html
11-12-2021||India||News updates from HT: Uttarakhand CM warns against ‘offensive’ posts on late defence personnel, and all the latest news||Here are today’s top news, analysis, and opinion at 5pm. Know all about the latest news and other news updates from Hindustan Times.Uttarakhand CM warns against 'objectionable' comment about late defence personnel; meets Gen Rawat's daughtersAction will be taken against anyone making objectionable comments about any late defence personnel on social media or otherwise, chief minister Pushkar Dhami said. Read moreKerala guv says CM Vijayan should appoint himself as chancellor of universitiesKerala governor Arif Mohammad Khan said it was becoming difficult for him as a chancellor to the state’s universities from political interference and erosion of their autonomy. Read more'Virat's phone is switched off': Kohli's childhood coach 'surprised' at Ganguly's statement; 'No transparency at all'Rohit Sharma was named India's new ODI captain earlier this week, succeeding Virat Kohli in the role. BCCI's announcement on the captaincy switch in fifty-over format came less than a month after Rohit was also named the T20I captain. Read moreAnushka Sharma, Virat Kohli celebrate 4 years of marriage with unseen goofy pics from dishwashing sessions and moreAnushka Sharma is celebrating four years of a happy married life with husband, cricketer Virat Kohli. She took to Instagram to share a bunch of photos of them, enjoying each others company. Read moreKatrina Kaif to Priyanka Chopra: Bollywood divas who wore Sabyasachi mangalsutra for their weddingThe Sabyasachi mangalsutra has become the favourite jewellery of Bollywood divas for their weddings. From Katrina Kaif to Priyanka Chopra, many stars choose the single strand jewel for their special day. Read moreKickboxer claims record for breaking most baseball bats in one minuteDo you follow the official Instagram page of Guinness World Records (GWR)? Then there is a chance that you know about the amazing videos they often share that show people making various records. Read moreBoost for Army | Enhanced range Pinaka rocket launcher system successfullyThe Extended Range Pinaka (Pinaka-ER) Multi Barrel Rocket Launcher System was successfully tested at Rajasthan's Pokhran Range, said the Defence Research and Development Organisation (DRDO). Watch||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/news-updates-from-ht-uttarakhand-cm-warns-against-objectionable-posts-on-iaf-chopper-crash-and-all-the-latest-news-101639219540486.html
11-12-2021||India||Omicron cases in India will mostly be asymptomatic, says expert. Here's why||With reports of new cases surfacing, the overall number of Omicron cases in India has now reached 33. According to experts, the spread of the new variant is less concerning than that of Delta as the symptoms are mild. While this is partly because of the nature of this new variant, another reason might be the high rate of seropositivity of Indians, experts have said."India has the advantage of a very high rate of 'seropositivity' of 70, 80 per cent, and in big cities more than 90 per cent people already have antibodies," Rakesh Mishra, former Director of CSIR-Centre for Cellular and Molecular Biology (CCMB) here, told PTI. Even if people get infected by Omicron, it will be very mild and mostly asymptomatic, Mishra said.India's Omicron tally rises to 33: Tracing Covid-19's new variant in various statesA fresh wave of the pandemic may come even without Omicron, Mishra said referring to the fresh waves in Europe. Ruling out the possibility of a surge in hospitalisation, he said wearing the mask, maintaining social distancing and getting vaccinated remain the three major weapons against future waves.New variants are bound to emerge and the general tendency is that newer variants should be milder and more infectious. However, it is possible that an unexpected bad variant may emerge, Mishra said.All Omicron cases in India are mild and there has been no report of Omicron death in India and in any country of the world. The common symptoms are weakness, sore throat etc. Many Omicron patients of India have already recovered and tested negative for Covid.Capital Delhi reported a new Omicron case on Saturday as a Zimbabwe-returnee tested positive. Reports said the patient only complained of weakness.Which states have how many Omicron cases?Maharashtra has 17 Omicron cases, which is the highest in the country, while the second is Rajasthan with nine cases. Gujarat has reported three confirmed Omicron cases. Karnataka and Delhi have two Omicron cases each.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/omicron-cases-in-india-will-be-mostly-asymptomatic-says-expert-here-s-why-101639220664128.html
11-12-2021||India||Saaf dikhta hai: Akhilesh hits back at PM Modi over Yogi govt's inauguration of projects||Samajwadi Party president Akhilesh Yadav on Saturday said a majority of the projects that the Yogi Adityanath-led Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) in Uttar Pradesh inaugurated were launched during his time in power.The former chief minister said the Gorakhpur AIIMS could never have been built had the SP government not allotted land for the same. “People in Uttar Pradesh no more want the 'Yogi' government, they want a 'Yogya' government,” he was quoted as saying by news agency ANI. Uttar Pradesh is set to witness the next Assembly election early next year.He also shared a tweet soon after Prime Minister Narendra Modi inaugurated the Saryu Nahar Canal Project and said that while the BJP government believes in completing projects, others prioritise cutting ribbons. In an apparent reference to the ‘saaf dikhta hai’ (clear difference) remark of Modi, Yadav wrote on Twitter in Hindi, “There are basically two types of people in the world -- some who really work and some who take credit for others’ work. And, there is a clear difference between the (previous) SP’s working government and the current ribbon-cutting government. Hence, the BJP is going to be completely removed in the 2022 election.”दुनिया में मूलतः दो तरह के लोग होते हैं कुछ वो जो सच में काम करते हैं और कुछ वो जो दूसरों का काम अपने नाम करते हैं…सपा की काम करनेवाली सरकार में और आज की ‘कैंचीजीवी’ सरकार में ये फ़र्क़ साफ़ है… इसीलिए बाइस के चुनाव में भाजपा पूरी तरह होने वाली साफ़ है।#सपा_का_काम_जनता_के_नाम pic.twitter.com/LZWJdBqULVYadav said that while Samajwadi Party gave laptops to the youth, the BJP baton charged them. “The SP gave Lohia Awaas to the poor and the BJP drove over farmers and killed them in Lakhimpur Kheri. The Samajwadi Party believes in development, whereas they believe in changing names,” he added.He further said the BJP spends more on advertisements than on projects. “The BJP showed dreams that farmers' income will be doubled by 2022, where are the farmers with increased incomes? Huge hoardings are put up that youngsters are getting jobs, where have they givenjobs in UP?” he said.Earlier in the day, ahead of Modi inaugurating Saryu Nahar National Project, Yada said three-fourth of its work was completed by his government."The BJP government in UP took five years to complete the remaining work of Saryu Nahar National Project which was three-fourth completed during the SP government," he wrote on Twitter.He said 2022 will usher in a new era of the SP and the state will sway with "canals of development".(With inputs from agencies)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/saaf-dikhta-hai-akhilesh-hits-back-at-pm-modi-over-yogi-govt-s-projects-101639219860715.html
11-12-2021||India||IAF chopper crash: Himachal Pradesh CM assures all help to family of Lance Naik Vivek Kumar||Himachal Pradesh chief minister Jai Ram Thakur on Saturday assured all help to the family of Lance Naik Vivek Kumar, who was among the victims of Wednesday’s Indian Air Force (IAF) helicopter crash in Tamil Nadu’s Nilgiris district. “We have paid homage to Lance Naik Vivek Kumar, as Kangra mourns. ₹5 lakh was provided to the kin previously, as per a government scheme. But I will additionally provide financial aid of ₹5 lakh from my side. We’ll see to all the help needed by the family soon,” Thakur said, according to news agency ANI. We have paid homage to Lance Naik Vivek Kumar, as Kangra mourns. ₹5 lakh was provided to the kin previously, as per a govt scheme. But I will additionally provide financial aid of ₹5 lakh from my side. We'll see to all the help needed by the family soon: HP CM Jai Ram Thakur pic.twitter.com/ehkUGtp8H7On his Twitter account, the chief minister described Lance Naik Kumar’s death as a ‘painful’ moment for everyone in Himachal Pradesh. “Paid floral tributes to the mortal remains of Lance Naik Vivek Kumar, who was from Jaisinghpur, and was martyred in a helicopter crash in Tamil Nadu’s Coonoor. Met his parents in Dharamshala to share their grief,” he tweeted.Also Read | Mortal remains of 4 IAF, 2 army personnel killed in Coonoor chopper crash identified“We pray to God to give strength to the bereaved family. We stand with them in this hour of grief. I salute the martyrdom of Vivek Kumar,” Thakur posted in a subsequent tweet.
11-12-2021||India||Tripura govt handle tweets poster with Kolkata flyover, deletes after criticism||The Communist Party of India (Marxist) and Trinamool Congress on Saturday lashed out at the Biplab Kumar Deb-led Tripura government for tweeting a poster of a flyover of Kolkata. Accusing the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) of “renting” the development works of other states for its own promotion, the Opposition parties of Tripura targeted the state government for using Kolkata's Sealdah flyover in a poster of a slogan writing competition on Motor Vehicle Driving Regulations."It is a very shameful act by the BJP-led government in Tripura to showcase West Bengal's flyover for highlighting Biplab Kumar Deb government's success. It looks like a rented campaign by the BJP government," news agency PTI quoted Subal Bhowmik, Trinamool’s state steering committee convener, as saying.The CPI(M) claimed the Tripura government had no other option than to use the photograph of a Kolkata flyover to show off its development works.The MyGov Tripura Twitter account deleted the poster amid criticism from the Opposition.The ruling BJP, however, defended the poster, saying it was related to a national-level competition and the party thinks the nation comprises all the states, reported PTI. Blaming the Opposition for showing the “negativity”, Tripura BJP’s chief spokesperson Subrata Chakraborty said the poster was aimed at making people aware of “congested roads”."The tweet was in regards to a national-level competition, to show a congested road irrespective of states. It was aimed at making people aware about congested roads. The BJP thinks the nation comprises all the states," Chakraborty said, as quoted by PTI.This is not the first time the BJP-ruled governments have faced criticism for showcasing other states’ work as their own. In September, a UP government advertisement used Kolkata’s Maa Flyover to showcase the development works of the Yogi Adityanath administration. The Union ministry of civil aviation last month tweeted West Bengal’s Durgapur airport as an airport located in Uttarakhand.(With agency inputs)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/tripura-govt-handle-tweets-poster-with-kolkata-flyover-deletes-after-criticism-101639218434553.html
11-12-2021||India||Kerala guv says CM Vijayan should appoint himself as chancellor of universities||Kerala governor Arif Mohammad Khan on Saturday wrote to chief minister Pinarayi Vijayan on Saturday expressing his disappointment over alleged political appointments in universities and urging the latter to amend the law and appoint himself as the chancellor.Stating that it was becoming difficult for him as a chancellor to the state’s universities from political interference and erosion of their autonomy, Khan said asked Vijayan to amend the Acts of the Universities that made the governor the chancellor of these institutes of higher education. The governor asked Vijayan to amend the Act and appoint himself in his place."My advice to you is to amend the Acts of the universities and you personally assume the position of the chancellor, so that you can carry out your political objectives without any dependence on the governor. Once the universities come under the direct control of the government, there will be no scope for anybody to make allegations of political interference," Khan wrote in his four-page letter."You can ask the advocate general to prepare a legal document through which the governor can transfer the powers of the chancellor to the chief minister. I am confident it should not be difficult for the advocate general to find a legal method to do so," he added.The Governor is reportedly unhappy about a number of latest developments in some of the state’s universities, including the reappointment of Kannur University vice-chancellor professor Gopinath Ravindran."I wish to make it clear that in the matter of Kannur University, I did something against my better judgment but I do not wish to do such things any more And at the same time, I do not wish to pursue a course of conflict with my own government," the Governor said."I fully realised that what I was being asked to do was not consistent with rules and was contrary to law but I had no intention to start any dispute with the state government. In order to avoid the controversy, I signed the order but I have been feeling extremely uncomfortable after that," he added."The existing scene today is that the authorities of the universities are packed with political nominees and non-academics are taking academic decisions," the governor further said.(With inputs from agencies)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/kerala-guv-says-cm-vijayan-should-appoint-himself-as-chancellor-of-varsities-101639216359092.html
11-12-2021||India||‘Shocking!’: Politicians, netizens question ISRO-Oppo India deal||An agreement signed between the Indian Space Research Organisation (ISRO) and Oppo India, the local arm of Chinese electronics major Oppo has triggered a controversy, with political leaders and netizens questioning the Indian space agency over the deal, as it was signed despite the Chinese aggression in eastern Ladakh and the subsequent ban on Chinese apps by the Union government.“Hello China. Lots of Love. ISRO,” Rajya Sabha MP Priyanka Chaturvedi tweeted. “It amazes me to no end that on one hand we as a nation are trying to fend them off the border, reduce their exposure to Indian markets and yet important arms of India and national security continue to be oblivious to the threat,” the Shiv Sena leader added. It amazes me no end that on one hand we as a nation are trying to fend them off the border, reduce their exposure to Indian markets and yet important arms of India and national security continue to be oblivious to the threat.Congress spokesperson Dr Shama Mohamed described the development as ‘shocking.’ She tweeted: “On the one hand, China is illegally annexing Indian territory & on the other, ISRO ties up with Chinese mobile manufacturer Oppo for tech R&D!” On the one hand, China is illegally annexing Indian territory & on the other, ISRO ties up with Chinese mobile manufacturer Oppo for tech R&D! Shocking! #modinomicsVarious other netizens used phrases such as ‘shocking,’ ‘blunder’ etc. for the ISRO-Oppo India pact, while others wondered why people should boycott Chinese apps when no less than ISRO itself is signing a deal with a company from that country.While ISRO is yet to issue a statement on the agreement, Oppo India, on Friday, announced the deal in a Twitter post. “Supporting the vision of Aatmanirbhar Bharat, Oppo India collaborates with @isro to provide them with industry-leading R&D capabilities. Aiming to build a convenient and user-friendly with NavIC application, together, we embark on a new journey to create a better future,” it tweeted. Supporting the vision of Atmanirbhar Bharat, OPPO India collaborates with @isro to provide them with industry-leading R&D capabilities. Aiming to build a convenient and user-friendly platform with NavIC application, together, we embark on a new journey to create a better future. pic.twitter.com/b8voHvhc7rUnder the pact, the two sides will integrate the NavIC messaging service with the mobile handset platform, keeping in mind in Indian users, to build rapid, ready-to-use, end-to-end application-specific solutions.NavIC stands for ‘Navigation with Indian Constellation’ and is an independent satellite-based positioning system for critical national applications. It was previously known as ‘Indian Reginal Navigation Satellite System’ (IRNSS). Its primary objective is to provide reliable position, navigation and timing services, with ‘fairly good’ accuracy to the user.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/shocking-opposition-netizens-question-isro-oppo-india-deal-101639215014162.html
11-12-2021||India||India's Omicron tally rises to 33: Tracing Covid-19's new variant in various states||India's tally for Coronavirus's new variant, Omicron, climbed to 33 on Saturday after a fully vaccinated person who travelled to Zimbabwe and South Africa before coming to Delhi tested positive for the new strain in the national capital.The variant, which has led to widespread concerns regarding its contagiousness, has rattled the health community which is fearing the strain could be more transmissible and dangerous than Covid-19's previous strains that caused earlier waves of the ongoing pandemic.Delhi: The national capital has reported two cases of the variant so far. The first case was detected in a 37-year-old fully vaccinated man who came from Tanzania last Sunday. The patient is a resident of Ranchi and travelled from Tanzania to Doha and from there he came to Delhi on a Qatar Airways flight on December 2.The second case came to light on Saturday after a fully vaccinated individual with a travel history to Zimbabwe and South Africa tested positive for the new variant of the coronavirus. He is being treated at the LNJP hospital and has only weakness as confirmed by an official to news agency PTI.Also read | Cabinet secretary Rajiv Gauba to hold Covid-19 review meeting tomorrow amid rising Omicron casesMaharashtra: The tally of Omicron variant infections in the state stands at 17, according to the state health department bulletin.Maharashtra reported seven new cases of Omicron on Friday including in a one-and-a-half-year-old toddler. Of the seven cases, three were reported in Mumbai, four from Pimpri Chinchwad Municipal Corporation.The three new patients from Mumbai were all men, aged 48, 25, and 37 years with a recent history of travel to Tanzania, the UK, and South Africa, respectively.Rajasthan: Last Sunday, the state's health department said a total of nine cases of Covid-19 Omicron variant have been reported in Rajasthan's Jaipur.All the nine patients were later discharged from a government hospital they were admitted to after testing negative for the infection twice, health minister Parsadi Lal Meena said.Also read | Omicron variant: Boosters could provide 70% to 75% protection, shows UK studyGujarat: The state has registered three cases of the Omicron variant of Coronavirus so far. Gujarat's first Omicron case was reported in a 72-year-old Zimbabwe-based NRI who came to Jamnagar last week. Later, two of his contacts tested positive for the new strain.All three Omicron patients in the state are stable and asymptomatic. Their treatment is going on in the hospital, municipal commissioner Vijaykumar Kharadi told news agency ANI.Karnataka: On Monday, Karnataka health minister K Sudhakar said only two cases of Omicron have been found in the state and the genomic sequencing analysis report of the rest are awaited.Karnataka's first case of the new variant was detected after a South African who landed in Bengaluru on November 20 tested positive but left the country three days later based on a negative Covid-19 test report. He was also India’s first-known Omicron patient.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/indias-omicron-tally-rises-to-33-tracing-covid-19-s-new-variant-in-various-states-101639213462596.html
11-12-2021||India||PM Modi says CDS Gen Rawat's demise loss to every patriot. Then makes this pledge||The entire nation witnessed the hard work of India’s first chief of defence staff General Bipin Rawat for making the country’s security forces self-reliant, Prime Minister Narendra Modi said on Saturday. Extending his condolences to the families of all those who died in the chopper crash in Tamil Nadu on Wednesday, PM Modi said the demise of Gen Bipin Rawat is a loss to every patriot.Referring to Gen Rawat’s effort to strengthen the coordination between the Indian Army, Indian Navy and Indian Air Force, the prime minister promised that the campaign will continue to move swiftly in order to make the security forces ‘Aatmanirbhar’.“Wherever General Bipin Rawat maybe, in the days to come, he will see India moving ahead with new resolutions,” the prime minister said.“India is mourning but despite being in pain, neither do we stop our pace nor our development. India won't stop. India won't be at a standstill. Together, we Indians will work hard & face every challenge inside and outside the country,” he added.‘Whose money misused?’ PM Modi on Saryu Nahar project cost escalation over yearsPM Modi was speaking at the launch of the ₹9,800-crore worth Saryu Nahar National Project in Balrampur, Uttar Pradesh. Providing an update on the health of the sole survivor of the helicopter crash, the prime minister said doctors are working hard to save the life of Group Captain Varun Singh.“I pray to Maa Pateshwari to save his life. The nation stands with his family. The country also stands with the families who lost those brave soldiers,” he said.Earlier today, PM Modi inspected the Saryu Nahar National Project's model ahead of the launch. The project, which involves the interlinking of five rivers - Ghaghara, Saryu, Rapti, Banganga and Rohini, is estimated to provide water for irrigation of over 14 lakh hectares of land and benefit about 29 lakh farmers of over 6200 villages||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/in-the-days-to-come-pm-remembers-gen-rawat-others-who-died-in-chopper-crash-101639213602300.html
11-12-2021||India||We don't just cut ribbons, we finish projects, says PM Modi in UP||Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Saturday spoke about how the Saryu Nahar National Project that he inaugurated was launched 50 years ago at a cost of ₹100 crore and was completed at about Rs1,00,000 crore.“Whose money was this? Yours. Isn't it? Your money should have been better utilised. Those who misused it, would you not punish them?” he asked a gathering after opening the canal that is expected to provide assured water for irrigation to over 14 lakh hectares of land and benefit about 29 lakh farmers, mainly in eastern Uttar Pradesh. The project that involves interlinking of five rivers -- Ghaghara, Saryu, Rapti, Banganga and Rohini -- has been completed at a cost of over ₹9,800 crore, of which more than ₹4,600 crore was provisioned in the last four years, the government said.The PM said that while some people prioritise laying the foundations of projects, for his government, it is about completing them. “When I left Delhi, I was waiting for someone to says ‘we had started this project'. There are some who are used to saying this. Maybe, they had cut the ribbon for the project in their childhood. For some priority is to lay the foundation, for us, it is completing them,” he added.“Work that was not done in 50 years was completed in five years. That is the benefit of the double-engine govt,” he added.Also read | 'In the days to come…': PM Modi remembers Gen Rawat, others who died in chopper crashSpeaking about his government’s priority to ensure availability of water in fields of farmers, Modi said the Saryu Nahar project completion is proof of 'imaandaar soch aur damdaar kaam' (honest intentions and efficient work) approach.“My cabinet has also cleared the ₹45,000 crore Ken Betwa project that will end the water crisis in the Bundelkhand region,” he added.He also hit out at previous governments saying they used to patronise criminals. “Now, Yogi ji's government is busy eliminating them. That's why UP is saying, 'farq saaf hai' (there’s a clear difference),” he added.Uttar Pradesh governor Anandiben Patel, chief minister Yogi Adityanath, Union minister for Jal Shakti Gajendra Singh Shekhawat and deputy chief minister Keshav Prasad Maurya were among those present at programme.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/whose-money-misused-pm-modi-on-saryu-nahar-project-cost-escalation-over-years-101639213485956.html
11-12-2021||India||'Not a Muslim from today': Malayali filmmaker Ali Akbar condemns ‘jubilation over CDS Bipin Rawat death'||Malayali filmmaker Ali Akbar has announced that he and his wife were renouncing Islam in protest against social media users allegedly posting smiley emojis to the reports of chopper crash in Tamil Nadu in which Chief of Defence Staff Bipin Rawat, his wife Madhulika and 11 other defence personnel died. In a video released on social media, the filmmakers said, "I am not a Muslim from today onwards. I am an Indian.""Today, I am throwing away an attire I received by birth," the filmmaker-turned-politician said.Reports said Ali Akbar will now become Ramasimhan, the new Hindu identity that he has chosen for himself. He also said that he would not force his two daughters to convert as it will be their personal choice. That no religious leader called out the social media "jubilations" over Bipin Rawat's death has hurt him, he said. Watch | General Bipin Rawat’s chopper caught on camera minutes before the crash. Video goes viralIn a tragic accident, the IAF chopper on which CDS Bipin Rawat and 13 others were flying crashed on Wednesday resulting in the death of 13 people. Group captain Varun Singh is the sole survivor of the chopper crash. A tri-service inquiry has been ordered to investigate the crash as the nation mourns and bids adieu to its heroes. The reason for the crash is not yet known and the Indian Air Force urged people to stay away from uninformed speculation. Karnataka chief minister Basavaraj Bommai on Friday said he has ordered the Karnataka Police to take immediate action against offensive posts about Gen Rawat's chopper crash.The Uttarakhand government has issued a similar warning as chief minister Pushkar Singh Dhami said, "Respect for our soldiers is topmost for us. Late Chief of Defence Staff General Bipin Rawat will always be Uttarakhand's pride. If any miscreant makes any objectionable comment about any late defence personnel on social media or otherwise, our government will take stringent legal action against them." இன்று முதல் நான் முஸ்லிம் அல்ல பாரதியன் நானும் என் குடும்பமும் He was known as Ali Akbar. A Muslim by birth.On the death of Gen.Bipin Rawat, many people made celebrations in Kerala on social platforms.By being deeply hurt with the facts pic.twitter.com/vJ2wvCdxmMIn October this year, Ali Akbar had resigned from all responsibilities in the BJP including as its state committee member as he said he was "pained" by the Kerala unit's organisational level action against BJP state secretary AK Nazeer. Akbar, however, had said he would continue as a member of the BJP. In an emotional Facebook post, he had said it was very difficult for the common man to understand the kind of humiliations and abuses being faced by a Muslim, from his own family and community, while working for the BJP. The filmmaker is currently working on a film based on the Malabar rebellion also called as Moplah riot that took place in north Kerala in 1921, news agency PTI reported.(With PTI inputs)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/not-a-muslim-from-today-malayali-filmmaker-condemns-jubilation-over-cds-bipin-rawat-death-101639212753342.html
11-12-2021||India||In boost to UP farmers, Modi launches Saryu Nahar canal in Balrampur||With the press of a button, Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Saturday inaugurated the ₹9,800-crore Saryu Nahar National Project, which was pending for the past 40 years, at Balrampur in Uttar Pradesh.The canal system is expected to benefit lakhs of farmers in the eastern part of the state who had been dealing with water shortage and irrigation issues. The Saryu Nahar National Project began in 1978, but the work was delayed due to what officials said was a lack of continuity of budgetary support, interdepartmental coordination, and adequate monitoring.Two years after Prime Minister Modi came to power at the Centre, the project was brought under the Pradhan Mantri Krishi Sinchayee Yojana in 2016 with the target to complete it in a time-bound manner. According to the Prime Minister, the project which remained incomplete for four decades was then finished in only four years.The Prime Minister arrived in Balrampur at around 1pm on Saturday and took the stage along with Uttar Pradesh chief minister Yogi Adityanath, Union Jal Shakti minister Gajendra Singh Shekhawat and other senior officials and politicians.In photos shared by the ANI news agency, Modi could be seen reviewing the project's model ahead of the inauguration.PM Narendra Modi reviews the Saryu Nahar National Project that he will inaugurate in Balrampur shortly. pic.twitter.com/gbAtWpM0xUWelcoming the Prime Minister, Jal Shakti minister Gajendra Singh Shekhawat highlighted that the 6,623-kilometre-long canal system will provide assured water for irrigation of over 14 lakh hectares of land to the benefit of about 29 lakh farmers of nine districts in the region – Bahraich, Shravasti, Gonda, Balrampur, Siddharthnagar, Basti, Sant Kabir Nagar, Gorakhpur, and Maharajganj.UP chief minister Yogi Adityanath commended PM Modi for clearing the project that was stuck for nearly four decades.“This project was sanctioned the same year I was born,” the chief minister said. “Yet, this scheme got wings when Prime Minister Narendra Modi arrived. He has cleared more than 100 such schemes across the country that were stuck in the pipeline.”Salient features of the Saryu Nahar National Project:• Five rivers—Ghaghara, Saryu, Rapti, Banganga, and Rohini—has been interlinked under the project to ensure optimum usage of water resources of the region.• The sub canals with a length of 6,600km have been linked to the 318km main canal.• The project will help irrigate over 14 lakh hectares of land and benefit about 29 lakh farmers of more than 6,200 villages.• The canal system is also expected to protect the districts of eastern UP from recurrent floods.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/in-boost-to-up-farmers-modi-launches-saryu-nahar-canal-in-balrampur-101639207715323.html
11-12-2021||India||India sends life-saving medicines to Afghanistan in aid||India on Saturday sent its first tranche of humanitarian aid, including 1.6 metric tonnes of life-saving medicines, to Afghanistan since its takeover by the Taliban in August.The medical supplies reached Kabul from Delhi on a return flight that had brought 10 Indians and 94 Afghans from the war-torn nation a day ago.Farid Mamundzay, Afghanistan’s Ambassador to India, said the aid was a “gift from people of India”. The first consignment of medical aid from India arrived in Kabul this morning. 1.6 metric tonne of life-saving medicines will help many families in this difficult time.“Gift from people of India”: Farid Mamundzay, Afghanistan’s Ambassador to India pic.twitter.com/DahRXM14OTThe Ministry of External Affairs (MEA) said the consignments will be handed over to representatives of the World Health Organisation (WHO) in Kabul.In a statement, the MEA said, "In view of the challenging humanitarian situation in Afghanistan, the Government of India has dispatched humanitarian assistance consisting of medical supplies on the return flight today.""These medicines will be handed over to the representatives of the World Health Organisation (WHO) in Kabul and will be administered at the Indira Gandhi Children Hospital, Kabul," it added.Also read | India, Afghan embassy quietly prepped for flight from Kabul for weeksIndia has already announced that it will send 50,000 tonnes of wheat and medicines to Afghanistan by road transport through Pakistan. India and Pakistan are now finalising the modalities for transportation of the consignments.India has been pitching for providing unimpeded humanitarian aid to Afghanistan to address the unfolding humanitarian crisis in the country.Regarding Friday’s special chartered flight, the MEA said 10 Indians and 94 Afghans came to Delhi."The minority community members carried with them two 'Swaroops of Guru Granth Sahib' and some ancient Hindu manuscripts," it said.The people were brought under India's "Operation Devi Shakti" which was launched to evacuate Indians as well as Afghans from Afghanistan following the Taliban's takeover of Kabul on August 15."Under 'Operation Devi Shakti', a total of 669 people have now been evacuated from Afghanistan. This comprises 448 Indians and 206 Afghans, which includes members of the Afghan Hindu/Sikh minority community," the MEA said.As many as 565 people including 438 Indians were evacuated from Afghanistan in August.(With inputs from agencies)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/india-sends-life-saving-medicines-to-afghanistan-in-aid-101639208064465.html
11-12-2021||India||From Monday, unvaccinated won’t be allowed in public places in TN's Madurai||From Monday, people in Tamil Nadu's Madurai district who have not been vaccinated against Covid-19 will not be allowed to enter public places, including business establishments and banks among others, news agency ANI reported on Saturday citing an order issued by the district collector.“Those who have not been vaccinated in Madurai will be barred from entering public places including fair price shops, business establishments, supermarkets, theatres, wedding halls, shopping malls, garment shops, banks and liquor stores,” the order read.The order also said that the Madurai administration has taken measures to send people who have not yet been inoculated against Covid-19 to nearby vaccination centres.The fresh order comes a week after the district administration said that those who have been vaccinated at all will not be allowed to public places in Madurai."One week has been given to people to get at least one dose of Covid-19 vaccine, failing which those unvaccinated people to be not allowed to enter public places like hotels, shopping malls and other commercial establishments," district collector Aneesh Sekhar told reporters on December 4, according to ANI.Sekhar said only those who have the certificate of vaccination will be allowed to enter these public places. The district collector added around 300,000 people in Madurai did not even receive a single dose of the Covid-19 vaccine.Meanwhile, authorities in Tamil Nadu have administered nearly 75 million vaccine doses to those eligible till now. Of these, 47,109,548 people have received the first dose and the remaining 27,827,049 are fully vaccinated against Covid-19.The state recorded 688 new cases of coronavirus disease on Friday, which pushed the overall tally to 2,734,034. Eleven more people died and the state's death toll has climbed to 36,586. Active cases of Covid-19 and recoveries in Tamil Nadu stand at 7,821 and 2,689,627 respectively, according to the health department's bulletin.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/from-monday-unvaccinated-won-t-be-allowed-in-public-places-in-tn-s-madurai-101639205015727.html
11-12-2021||India||As govt prepares to table cryptocurrency bill, PM Modi’s remarks||Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Friday called for united efforts to shape global norms for emerging technologies like social media and cryptocurrencies so that they are used to "empower democracy and not to undermine" it."We must also jointly shape global norms for emerging technologies like social media and cryptocurrencies, so that they are used to empower democracy, not to undermine it," PM Modi said during his virtual address at the Summit for Democracy hosted by US President Joe Biden.Also watch | At Biden's summit, PM bats for norms to counter threats posed by cryptocurrency 
11-12-2021||India||News updates from Hindustan Times: President Kovind remembers late CDS Bipin Rawat, and all the latest news||Here are today’s top news, analysis and opinion. Know all about the latest news and other news updates from Hindustan Times.President Ram Nath Kovind on Saturday remembered India’s first chief of defence staff (CDS) General Bipin Rawat, who was killed in a chopper crash two days ago, while addressing cadets at the Indian Military Academy (IMA) in Dehradun. Read moreAs the holiday season approaches in Canada amidst concerns over the Omicron variant of the Covid-19 virus, new federal modelling has predicted a sharp increase of fresh cases in January but health authorities also sounded a positive note about high vaccination rates greatly reducing severe outcomes. Read moreThe new Cooper Electric SE was teased by Mini India earlier this year in October. The company also started accepting pre-bookings for the car towards the end of October 2021 at a token amount of ₹1 lakh. Read moreChandigarh Kare Aashiqui, starring Ayushmann Khurrana and Vaani Kapoor, opened in theatres on Friday amid positive reviews. The film reportedly collected around ₹3.75 crore on its first day. Read moreWinter season with its many perks has its own allure. As the weather gets better, appetite and digestion improve, and one may like to step outside and explore nature. Read moreChef Gordon Ramsay often takes to Instagram to share various kinds of videos. From posting new recipes to sharing about different eateries to reacting to cooking videos, his shares are of different taste. Read more||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/news-updates-from-hindustan-times-president-kovind-remembers-late-cds-bipin-rawat-and-all-the-latest-news-101639205442217.html
11-12-2021||India||Experts advise taking safe course in wake of Omicron variant||India must increase the speed of vaccinating its population, roll out booster doses, especially for the immune-compromised, start vaccines for children and ensure that hospitals have enough capacity in wake of the anticipated infections with the Omicron variant, virologist Dr Sahid Jameel said on Friday. He advised people to get vaccinated, mask properly and avoid being in crowded spaces to prevent the risk of infection. “The government should also bring down the gap between the two doses of Covishield vaccine to 12 weeks. This will not compromise the efficacy of the vaccine,” said Dr Jameel at a webinar organised by Ashoka University, Delhi, to discuss the new Omicron variant. “We no longer have any paucity of vaccine doses, so let’s reduce this gap,” he said. Dr Jameel is a director of the Trivedi School of Biosciences at Ashoka University. He is also the former head of the advisory group to the Indian SARS-COV-2 Genomics Consortium (INSACOG).India currently mandates a time gap of 12 to 16 weeks between two doses of Covishield developed by Astra-Zeneca and Oxford University. When the nationwide vaccination drive began in January, the government had mandated a four-to-six-week gap for the vaccine. In March, it was extended to six to eight weeks as evidence suggested better protection within this time interval. The Centre further extended the time gap to 12 to 16 weeks in May. “It’s 12 to 16 weeks but most people are getting appointments only after 16 weeks. It should be made 12 weeks,” said Dr Jameel emphasising the need to prep health systems to face the anticipated surge in cases. He said that some early results have shown that vaccinated people drop their ability to neutralise the omicron variant by about 40 times.“Unpublished reports from South Africa on Astra Zeneca vaccine, similar to India’s Covishield, also show a 40% drop in neutralising titers. I expect the same to happen in India, which essentially means that a lot more Indians are going to get re-infections. But then, they will not get a severe disease,” he said adding, “Looking at that scenario, we must create hospital capacity in advance. If a very large number of people get re-infections, then some of them will show up in hospitals. This should be a caution to various state health departments to be ready.” According to Dr Jameel, India must start drafting the details on the booster policy, who will get the boosters first, which boosters should be given, the time limit among other things. “There is no need to shut down schools or implement lockdowns,” he said. Gautam Menon, a professor of physics and biology at Ashoka University who also spoke at the webinar said that the Omicron variant is worrisome going by the hypothesis over its origin and the early data on its transmissibility and infectious nature. “We will see some impact in the months to come, but it’s hard to say what that impact will be. We should be careful, we should do surveillance, we should do genome sequencing and we should be watchful for cases in the coming days,” he said. Overall, the Omicron variant has been detected in 32 cases in the country, In India, seven cases have been detected in Maharashtra and two in Gujarat on Friday. The tally across states stands at 17 in Maharashtra, nine in Rajasthan, three in Gujarat, two in Karnataka, and one in Delhi. The Omicron variant, first reported in southern African countries last month, is thought to be at least four times as transmissible as the Delta variant, according to preliminary studies.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/experts-advise-taking-safe-course-in-wake-of-omicron-variant-101639205621409.html
11-12-2021||India||Assam police recover heritage watch owned by footballer Diego Maradona, 1 arrested||A heritage Hublot watch owned by legendary footballer Diego Maradona has been recovered by Assam Police in coordination with Dubai, chief minister Himanta Biswa Sarma announced on Saturday.One person has been arrested in this connection."In an act of international cooperation, Assam police has coordinated with Dubai Police HQs through Indian federal LEA to recover a heritage Hublot watch belonging to legendary footballer Late Diego Maradona and arrested one Wazid Hussein. Follow-up lawful action is being taken," tweeted Biswa.According to the Director-General of Police Assam, the limited edition watch signed by Maradona was stolen by one Wazid Hussain who had fled the state with it."As informed through Central Agency by Dubai Police, one Wazid Hussain had stolen a limited edition Maradona signed Hublot watch and fled to Assam. Today morning at 4:00 AM we arrested Wazid from his residence in Sibsagar. The limited-edition watch has been recovered from him," the DGP tweeted.The watch belonged to the legendary football player and was being stored in Dubai along with other belongings in a safe.A further probe is underway.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/assam-police-recover-heritage-watch-owned-by-footballer-diego-maradona-1-arrested-101639203929169.html
11-12-2021||India||Brave men like late CDS Rawat…: President Kovind at IMA passing out parade||President Ram Nath Kovind on Saturday remembered India’s first chief of defence staff (CDS) General Bipin Rawat, who was killed in a chopper crash two days ago, while addressing cadets at the Indian Military Academy (IMA) in Dehradun.Speaking to the cadets after reviewing their passing out parade, the President said the country’s flag shall always fly high as brave men like the late CDS, who was trained at IMA, would always preserve and protect its honour.Kovind congratulated the cadets on the successful completion of their training at IMA and complimented the instructors and the cadets on the synergised drill movements at the parade that he said indicated high standards of training and discipline imbibed by the young leaders.“I'm glad to see 387 Gentleman Cadets who would shortly embark on their journey of valour and wisdom. India's proud to have Gentlemen Cadets of friendly foreign nations of Afghanistan, Bhutan, Maldives, Myanmar, Nepal, Sri Lanka, Tajikistan, Tanzania, Turkmenistan and Vietnam,” Kovind further said.Besides the President, the passing out parade was attended by Uttarakhand chief minister Pushkar Singh Dhami and governor Lt Gen Gurmit Singh at the Chetwode Building Drill Square, IMA.The President also spoke to cadets about the challenges faced by the nation at the moment at regional and global levels. He said physical and mental toughness alone are not enough to tackle modern-day threats of the country, "but as military leaders, officers will have to develop a strategic mindset, cultivate an adaptive temperament and acquire the mental resilience essential to hone the skills for military leadership".An IMA statement said, "Today makes another landmark milestone as a total of 387 Gentleman Cadets of 149 Regular Course and 132 Technical Graduate Course, including 68 Gentleman Cadets from 10 friendly foreign countries successfully passed out from the portals of Indian Military Academy, overcoming all challenges of Covid-19."Earlier in the day, when the President reached Dehradun he was presented with a replica of the Kedarnath temple as a memento by the governor.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/brave-men-like-the-late-cds-rawat-president-kovind-at-ima-passing-out-parade-101639201120277.html
11-12-2021||India||Extended Range Pinaka Rocket successfully tested at Pokhran range. Watch here||The Extended Range Pinaka (Pinaka-ER) Multi Barrel Rocket Launcher System was successfully tested at Pokhran Range on Friday.The system has been designed by the Defence Research and Development Organisation’s (DRDO) Armament Research and Development Establishment laboratory and Pune-based High Energy Materials Research Laboratory.The Extended Range Pinaka is an upgraded version of the earlier Pinaka rockets that have been in service with the Indian Army since a decade.#WATCH | Extended Range Pinaka (Pinaka-ER) Multi Barrel Rocket Launcher System successfully tested at Pokhran Range. The system is designed by DRDO Laboratory ARDE along with HEMRL, Pune, the technology has been transferred to the Indian industry.(Source: DRDO) pic.twitter.com/DPXoaB7xpiThe system has been designed in the light of emerging requirements with advanced technologies enhancing the range.In June, the DRDO had successfully test-fired enhanced range versions of indigenously developed Pinaka rockets and 122mm Caliber rockets from a Multi-Barrel Rocket Launcher (MBRL) at the Integrated Test Range (ITR) in Chandipur off the coast of Odisha.At the time, 25 enhanced Pinaka rockets were launched in quick succession against targets at different ranges on Thursday and Friday. All the mission objectives were met during the launches. The ministry of defence had in a statement that the enhanced range version of the Pinaka Rocket System can destroy targets at distances up to 45km.News agency PTI had cited an official as saying that the development of the enhanced Pinaka system was taken up to achieve longer range performance. All the flight articles were tracked by various range instruments in order to check the accuracy of the rockets hitting the target.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/extended-range-pinaka-rocket-successfully-tested-at-pokhran-range-watch-here-101639199008241.html
11-12-2021||India||Gen Bipin Rawat’s daughters collect ashes, to immerse them in Haridwar||Daughters of India’s first chief of defence staff General Bipin Rawat and his wife Madhulika Rawat on Saturday collected the ashes of their parents from a crematorium in Delhi.News agency ANI posted the photographs of Kritika and Tarini as they interacted with some people at the Brar Square crematorium in the Delhi Cantonment area of the Capital.The family has said the ashes of Gen Rawat and Madhulika Rawat, who were cremated on the same funeral pyre at the Brar Square crematorium, will be immersed in the Ganga in Haridwar in Uttarakhand later in the day.Delhi: Kritika and Tarini, the daughters of #CDSGeneralBipinRawat and Madhulika Rawat collected the ashes of their parents from Brar Square crematorium, Delhi Cantonment this morning.The immersion of their ashes will be done in Haridwar, Uttarakhand today. pic.twitter.com/ZxiAdZJJfq"We will pick the ashes early morning tomorrow in a 'kalash' and then head to Haridwar, where the ashes will be immersed in the holy Ganga and some rituals will be performed," Yash Vardhan Singh, brother-in-law of General Rawat, told PTI on Friday after their cremation."Minister of State for Defence Ajay Bhatt and several other senior dignitaries from the state will be present on the occasion," a person familiar with the matter told news agency ANI.General Bipin Rawat’s daughters Kritika and Tarini performed the last rites of their father in a sombre military ceremony alongside their mother Madhulika Rawat on Friday, two days after they and 11 armed forces personnel were killed in a helicopter crash in Coonoor in Tamil Nadu.Also read | Mortal remains of 4 IAF, 2 army personnel killed in Coonoor crash identifiedApart from Gen Rawat and his wife, and defence adviser Brigadier LS Lidder, his staff officer Lieutenant Colonel Harjinder Singh, Wing Commander Prithvi Singh Chauhan, Squadron Leader Kuldeep Singh, Junior Warrant Officer Rana Pratap Das, Junior Warrant Officer Arakkal Pradeep, Havildar Satpal Rai, Naik Gursewak Singh, Naik Jitendra Kumar, Lance Naik Vivek Kumar and Lance Naik B. Sai Teja also died in the Coonoor chopper crash.Group Captain Varun Singh, the only survivor in the crash, is being treated at the Air Force Command hospital in Bengaluru, where he is said to be critical but stable.Also read | Avoid ‘uninformed speculation’: Air Force on Coonoor chopper crashThe Centre has ordered a 'tri service' inquiry into the accident, one of the worst air accidents involving India’s top military brass. The inquiry will be headed by Air Marshal Manvendra Singh, air officer commanding-in-chief Training Command.Gen Rawat would have completed two years at the end of this month as the country’s first tri-services chief after serving as the Indian Army chief.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/gen-bipin-rawat-s-daughters-collect-ashes-to-immerse-them-in-haridwar-101639198476694.html
11-12-2021||India||India’s daily Covid tally drops again with 7,992 new infections; active cases lowest in 559 days||India's daily tally of the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) continued a downward trend on Saturday after 7,992 infections were recorded in the last 24 hours, taking the caseload to 34,682,736, according to the Union ministry of health and family welfare.Saturday's infection count has been the lowest since Tuesday, when 6,822 cases were recorded.Also Read| Govt warns about ‘risky’, 'unacceptable' level of mask usage amid Omicron scareAs many as 9,265 patients recovered from and 393 succumbed to Covid-19 in the last 24 hours, taking the total count of recoveries and deaths to 34,114,331 and 475,128 respectively.The health ministry also said active cases of Covid-19 declined to 93,277 and have been the lowest in 559 days. “Active cases account for less than 1% of total cases, currently at 0.27%; Lowest since March 2020,” the Union health ministry said in its statement on Saturday.The overall recovery rate from Covid-19, meanwhile, has climbed to 98.36%, the highest since March last year, the ministry also said, adding that the daily positivity rate at 0.64% has been less than 2% for the last 68 days.On Friday, India recorded 8,503 cases, 624 deaths and 7,678 discharges due to Covid-19.The overall vaccination coverage in the country is nearing 1.32 billion with more than 7.63 million doses administered to eligible beneficiaries in the last 24 hours.Also Read| Toddler among 9 new Omicron cases in India; Tally up at 32The health ministry said on Saturday that more than 1.4 billion vaccine doses have been provided to states and Union territories (UTs) so far through the Centre's free of cost channel and direct state procurement category. On the other hand, more than 182 million balance and unutilised doses are still available with states and UTs to be administered.The number of the Omicron variant cases in India climbed to 32, including a three-year-old child from Pune, after 9 new infections were reported on Friday. The health ministry said on Friday Omicron is not posing a burden on the healthcare system yet, but people have to be cautious.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/indias-daily-covid-tally-drops-again-with-7-992-new-infections-101639195088332.html
11-12-2021||India||Watch: Farmers celebrate at Tikri border as they set off for their homes after successful movement||Farmers on Saturday celebrated as they prepared to leave the border points in Delhi following a year-long protest against the three farm laws, which have been now been repealed by the Centre.In a video tweeted by news agency ANI, a bunch of farmers at Delhi's Tikri border were seen dancing to a song as they set off for their homes in different states, including Punjab, Haryana, and Uttar Pradesh, after a successful culmination of the movement that went on for about nearly 13 months.Other visuals tweeted by ANI showed farmers taking down their tents and settlements at the Ghazipur border connecting Delhi and Uttar Pradesh as they prepare to make their journey back to their homes.Also read | Haryana villagers set to give rousing welcome to local, Punjab farmersProtesting farmers take down their tents at Ghazipur border (Delhi-UP border) as they prepare to return to their homes following the announcement of the suspension of their year-long protest. pic.twitter.com/mSAWOc2WOzBharatiya Kisan Union leader Rakesh Tikait informed that a large group of farmers will vacate the Ghazipur Border at 8am on Sunday.“In today's meeting, we will talk, pray, and meet the people who helped us. People have started vacating already, it will take 4-5 days. I will leave on December 15,” ANI quoted Tikait as saying on Saturday.#WATCH | Delhi: Farmers celebrate the success of their protest against the 3 farm laws & other related issues at Tikri Border after the suspension of their year-long protest. pic.twitter.com/oFvn0cJxdzMeanwhile, the farmers have also lifted blockades on highways at the Singhu, Tikri and Ghazipur borders where they have been protesting against the farm laws.The Centre has not only repealed the three farm laws but has also given a written assurance to fulfil their other demands, including constituting a committee for a legal guarantee on minimum support price (MSP) for crops.Delhi: Farmers start removing their settlements from the Tikri Border, after the suspension of their year-long protest against the 3 farm laws & other related issues pic.twitter.com/4n0qZe1s3DThousands of farmers had been protesting at the borders of the national capital since November 26 last year to demand the repeal of the three farm laws. On November 29, a bill was passed in Parliament to repeal the laws, one of the main demands of the farmers.Also read | Border protest sites get busy as farmers prepare to leave cityRefusing to end their protest, farmers demanded that the government fulfil their other demands that included a legal guarantee on MSP and withdrawal of police cases against them.The Centre accepted their demands following which the farmers decided to end their stir and said they will go back home on December 11 from the protest sites at Delhi borders.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/watch-farmers-celebrate-at-tikri-border-as-they-set-off-for-their-homes-after-successful-movement-101639197074203.html
11-12-2021||India||‘My nation demands answers’: Surjewala shoots 5 observations to govt on Covid||Congress general secretary Randeep Surjewala on Saturday targeted the Centre over the ongoing coronavirus pandemic and made five observations, including those about the Omicron variant of the virus.Surjewala tagged a Hindi news article, which said the rate of vaccination in India dropped by 8.5 per cent since the cases of the Omicron variant surfaced, as he tweeted his points. “The rate of vaccination is slowing down and not everyone will be able to get the vaccine by December,” Surjewala posted.Also Read| ‘86% of vaccine-eligible population given 1st dose’: Health minister tells ParliamentThe Congress leader also accused the Centre of not coming up with a policy for booster doses and a vaccination policy for people below the age of 18. “There has been no genome sequencing for the Omicron variant,” the Congress general secretary said and ended his tweet by saying, “my nation demands answers," for all his observations.Surjewala's attack on the Centre comes a day after Union health minister Mansukh Mandaviya informed the Lok Sabha on Friday that as many as 86 per cent of the vaccine-eligible population in the country has been given the first dose, adding the Centre wishes that full vaccination is achieved at the earliest.मोदी सरकार कैसे निपटेगी कोरोना से, जबकि -• #COVID19 वैक्सीन की गति घट रही है।• दिसम्बर तक सबको वैक्सीन नहीं लग पाएगी।• बूस्टर डोज़ बारे कोई नीति नहीं।• 18 साल से कम के लिए कोई वैक्सीन नीति नहीं।• #Omicron की जीनोम सीक्वन्सिंग नहीं।मेरा देश जबाब माँगता है। pic.twitter.com/cu3jWsDsSsSharing vaccination data from other countries such as the United States, France, Germany and Russia etc, Mandaviya said that India has done well on the inoculation front.Till now, the vaccination coverage in India has exceeded 1.31 billion with more than 7.45 million doses administered to eligible beneficiaries in the last 24 hours, according to the Union health ministry.As the total number of cases of the Omicron variant has crossed 30, the demand for a booster vaccine dose is rising.Last month, the Indian SARS-CoV-2 Genomics Sequencing Consortium (INSACOG) said that a booster dose might be considered for people above the age of 40.“Vaccination of all remaining unvaccinated at-risk people and consideration of a booster dose for those 40 years of age and over, first targeting the most high-risk / high-exposure may be considered since low levels of neutralising antibodies from current vaccines are unlikely to be sufficient to neutralise Omicron, although the risk of severe disease is still likely to be reduced,” the INSACOG said in its weekly bulletin on November 29.Also Read| After favouring booster dose for 40+, INSACOG says ‘more experiments required’However, days after favouring the booster for the above age group, the top genome sequencing body said on December 4 that its recommendation was not for the country's immunisation programme and was just merely a discussion about the potential role of an additional dose of vaccines in high-risk populations.Many more scientific experiments are needed to assess the impacts of a booster dose, the INSACOG said on December 4.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/my-nation-demands-answers-surjewala-shoots-5-observations-to-govt-on-covid-101639189237442.html
11-12-2021||India||News updates from Hindustan Times: Farmers depart protest sites in Delhi after an year, and all the latest news||Here are today’s top news, analysis and opinion. Know all about the latest news and other news updates from Hindustan Times.With farmers set to depart Delhi’s border points after nearly 13 months, activity has picked up at the Singhu and Ghazipur borders, where more trucks and tractor trolleys arrived on Friday. Read moreAmid growing concerns over the Omicron variant of the coronavirus in India, an expert panel of the country's central drug authority told the Serum Institute of India (SII) on Friday that before a potential booster dose of the Covishield vaccine can be authorised, the Pune-based firm will need to submit local clinical trial data before the authority, along with a proposal and justification for the approval. Read moreR Sridhar left his role as India's fielding coach after seven years in the position after the T20 World Cup last month. Sridhar, whose tenure saw India make a remarkable improvement in fielding standards, was succeeded by T Dilip in the role. Read moreRanvir Shorey has said that he is ‘very much in the hands of’ his accountant, as he only has a vague knowledge of how finances work. Ranvir plays the role of a public prosecutor in 420 IPC, an upcoming film that takes a close look at a financial crime and how such cases are dealt with in court. Read moreActor Alia Bhatt is all set to entertain the masses with the much-anticipated SS Rajamouli film RRR starring Ram Charan, NTR Jr and Ajay Devgn. The star reached Chennai to promote the film and took to Instagram to share her traditional look for the occasion. Read more||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/news-updates-from-hindustan-times-farmers-to-depart-protest-sites-in-delhi-after-13-months-and-all-the-latest-news-101639191462809.html
11-12-2021||India||Omicron: Will India allow Covid-19 booster dose? Here's what central expert panel said||Amid growing concerns over the Omicron variant of the coronavirus in India, an expert panel of the country's central drug authority told the Serum Institute of India (SII) on Friday that before a potential booster dose of the Covishield vaccine can be authorised, the Pune-based firm will need to submit local clinical trial data before the authority, along with a proposal and justification for the approval.According to officials familiar with the development, cited by the PTI news agency, the subject expert committee (SEC) on Covid-19 at the Central Drugs Standard Control Organisation (CDSCO) reviewed SII's application for Covishield as booster dose and after “detailed deliberation”, recommended the company must submit local clinical trial data and the justification for additional jabs.Also Read | After favouring booster dose for 40+, INSACOG says ‘more experiments required’The Pune-based SII on December 1 requested the Drugs Controller General of India (DCGI) to authorise Covishield as a booster dose, citing the emergence of new coronavirus variants in the country and an adequate stock of vaccines to tackle that growing concern.Prakash Kumar Singh, the director of government and regulatory affairs at SII, also referred to the UK's medicines and healthcare products regulatory agency giving a go-ahead to the booster doses of the AstraZeneca ChAdOx1 nCoV-19 vaccine.Developed in the United Kingdom by the University of Oxford and British-Swedish company AstraZeneca, the ChAdOx1 nCoV-19 is sold here by the Serum Institute under the brand name Covishield.The SII official, while submitting his plea to the central authority, is said to have cited the fact that many countries have already started administering booster doses of Covid-19 vaccines, indicating that maybe it is time India, too, did the same."You are aware that now there is no shortage of Covishield in our country and the demand for a booster dose is increasing day by day from the people who have already taken two doses in view of the ongoing Covid-19 pandemic and emergence of new strains," Singh was quoted as saying.Notably, it is not just the SII that is pushing for the approval of a booster dose of the Covid-19 vaccine. States like Kerala, Maharashtra, Rajasthan, Karnataka and Chhattisgarh have also recently urged the central government to decide on allowing the said booster doses amid growing concerns over Omicron.Also Read | Omicron cases in India: Share plan on booster Covid vaccine dose, opposition asks govtThe Centre, for its part, informed Parliament on Friday the National Technical Advisory Group on Immunisation and the National Expert Group on Vaccine Administration for Covid-19 are presently deliberating and considering scientific evidence for the need and justification for a booster dose against Covid-19.According to the information available on www.ourworldindata.org, more than 60 countries across the world have already authorised booster doses of the Covid-19 vaccine, minister of state for health Bharati Pravin Pawar said in a written reply.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/omicron-will-india-allow-covid-19-booster-dose-here-s-what-central-expert-panel-said-101639186796109.html
11-12-2021||India||Mortal remains of 4 IAF, 2 army personnel killed in Coonoor chopper crash identified||The mortal remains of four personnel of the Indian Air Force (IAF) and two soldiers of the Indian Army killed in the helicopter crash near Coonoor in Tamil Nadu earlier this week has been completed, news agency ANI reported on Saturday.Out of the total 14 officers and personnel on board the helicopter, 13 were killed in the horrific Mi-17V5 helicopter crash near Coonoor town on Wednesday. India’s first chief of defence staff (CDS) General Bipin Rawat, his wife Madhulika Raje Singh Rawat, and the CDS’ defence assistant Brigadier LS Lidder were among the dead.The others are Lieutenant Colonel Harjinder Singh, Wing Commander Prithvi Singh Chauhan (pilot), Squadron Leader Kuldeep Singh (co-pilot), Junior Warrant Officers Rana Pratap Das and Arakkal Pradeep, Havildar Satpal Rai, Naik Gursewak Singh, Naik Jitendra Kumar, Lance Naik Vivek Kumar and Lance Naik B Sai Teja.Also read | Varun Singh, sole survivor of Coonoor chopper crash, remains criticalThe army also said, according to ANI, positive identification of mortal remains of Lance Naik Vivek Kumar and Lance Naik B Sai Teja has been done. The news agency reported citing the IAF air transport plan for them as well as the identified army soldiers will follow.“The mortal remains have been released to close family members this morning. Mortal remains will move by air for last rites with appropriate military honour. Wreaths will be laid at the Base Hospital, Delhi Cantonment prior to departure,” ANI cited an army official as saying.Also read | Coonoor helicopter crash: Black box found, cause of accident under probe“The process for positive identification of remaining mortal remains is continuing,” the official also said.Gen Bipin Rawat, his wife Madhulika Rawat and his Brigadier Lidder were cremated with full military honours at Delhi's Brar Square Crematorium as their bodies were positively identified.Also read | Coonoor helicopter crash: ‘Shocked’, 'inconsolable' as families face sudden lossThe sole survivor, Group Captain Varun Singh, is on life support at the IAF Command Hospital in Bengaluru. A top three-star officer is heading the inquiry into the crash. Rawat was on a visit to the prestigious Defence Services Staff College (DSSC) at Wellington to address the faculty and student officers there.Also watch | Daughters perform last rites of CDS Gen Bipin Rawat, wife MadhulikaOn Friday, officials said family members of all the 10 personnel have arrived in the national capital to identify the remains. "The emotional well-being of family members is of utmost importance to us. So we are taking forward the identification process keeping in mind the sensitivities involved," an official told PTI.The Coonoor crash was one of the worst air accidents involving India’s top military brass.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/mortal-remains-of-4-iaf-2-army-personnel-killed-in-coonoor-crash-identified-101639187415142.html
11-12-2021||India||Gulmarg shivers at -6°C; mercury drops across Kashmir, Himachal||Gulmarg in north Kashmir on Friday recorded minimum temperature of minus 6 degrees Celsius, the lowest in the Valley, with weather office predicting snowfall next week even as mercury continued to dip across north-west Himalayas.The chilly weather in Himalayas also brought temperatures down in plains, with Churu in Rajasthan — known for mercury hitting as high as 50 degrees Celsius during summer — recording minimum temperature of 4.3°C on Friday, the lowest among plains in India, according to the India Meteorological Department (IMD) bulletin.The minimum temperature settled below freezing point across Kashmir Valley on Friday, IMD said. Pahalgam, which serves as the base camp for the Amarnath Yatra, recorded a low of minus 5.9°C, a fall of 1°C from the previous day. Srinagar also witnessed a drop of 0.5 degree C to settle at minus 2.6°C on Thursday night, officials said.The mercury in Kupwara in north Kashmir settled at a low of -3.8°C. Qazigund, the gateway town to the Valley, recorded -2.4°C, while Kokernag saw a low of -1.4°C. In the Union territory of Ladakh, Drass recorded bone-chilling minus 16.9°C minimum temperature while it was -11°C in Leh during the night.The weather office predicted moderate snowfall and rain in UTs of Jammu and Kashmir and Ladakh, Himachal Pradesh and upper reaches of Uttarakhand from next week.Director, meteorological department of J&K and Ladakh, Sonam Lotus said, “Light to moderate snow/rain is likely at scattered places of J&K and Kargil on December 15, especially over Zojila-Drass and Zanskar.”In Himachal, where Rohtang tunnel was opened for tourists on Thursday, is expected to receive snow from December 14. However, snowfall on Sunday has brought a good rush of tourists to Manali and Lahaul-Spiti, according to state government officials.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/gulmarg-shivers-at-6-c-mercury-drops-across-kashmir-himachal-101639187241898.html
11-12-2021||India||Farmers to mark ‘Vijay Diwas’ today at protest sites before leaving for home||Formally marking their victory in the movement against the contentious farm laws, protesting farmers at the borders of Delhi are set to return to their homes on Saturday after celebrating the day as ‘Vijay Diwas’.The Samyukt Kisan Morcha (SKM), the umbrella body of farmers' unions spearheading the protests so far, said farmers would take out victory marches on Saturday at all border points, toll plazas, and protest sites across the country, following which they will finally head home marking the conclusion of their year-long protests.Also Read | Border protest sites get busy as farmers prepare to leave cityAccording to reports, the farmers intended to celebrate the said Vijay Diwas on December 10 but postponed it to a day later out of respect for India's first Chief of Defence Staff (CDS) General Bipin Rawat, who lost his life in an air accident this week and was cremated on Friday.Meanwhile, the Singhu and Ghazipur border points of the national capital—two of the sites where the farmers had been protesting for the past 14 months—have picked up activity, as farmers get busy completing their preparations to leave for their homes in trucks and tractor trolleys. The UP Gate protest site, on the other hand, will be completely cleared by December 15, according to farmers.To avoid chaos, the farmers have decided to not leave all at once on Saturday morning and some of them will stay back and wait for more vehicles to arrive. “The larger tents will take a day or two to dismantle and we will need at least two trucks to take our belongings back,” a farmer from Punjab's Amritsar told Hindustan Times, adding that a few others from his village have already left for Delhi with tractors and trolleys.“The extra day was for us to pack our belongings, dismantle tents and prepare. The end goal is to reach Golden Temple on December 13,” a farmer leader said.Thousands of farmers, mainly from Punjab, Haryana, and Western Uttar Pradesh, were protesting at various Delhi borders from late November 2020, seeking repeal of the three farm laws.Prime Minister Narendra Modi announced on November 19 that his government would repeal the contentious laws, and subsequently, Parliament passed a bill on November 29 to repeal them.The SKM, a conglomeration of over 40 farmers' unions and the face of the protest, called off the movement across the country on Thursday, following a final letter from the central government accepting all the remaining demands of the peasants.The letter, signed by Union agriculture secretary Sanjay Agarwal, promised to take back all pending cases against agitating farmers, include SKM leaders in the panel to deal with minimum support prices (MSP) for produce, and consult the union before introducing an energy regulation bill in Parliament.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/farmers-to-mark-vijay-diwas-today-at-protest-sites-before-leaving-for-home-101639184061164.html
11-12-2021||India||Modi to launch Saryu canal project today, lakhs of farmers in east UP to benefit||In a move to woo farmers in eastern Uttar Pradesh, Prime Minister Narendra Modi will on Saturday visit the poll-bound state's Balrampur district and inaugurate the Saryu Nahar National Project.According to the Prime Minister's Office (PMO) release, the 6,623-kilometer-long canal system will provide assured water for irrigation of over 14 lakh hectares of land to the benefit of about 29 lakh farmers of nine districts in the region – Bahraich, Shravasti, Gonda, Balrampur, Siddharthnagar, Basti, Sant Kabir Nagar, Gorakhpur, and Maharajganj.Also Read | Yogi reviews preparations for Saryu canal project inauguration by PM ModiProject incomplete for 4 decades, finished in 4 yearsThe PMO said although work on the project began in 1978, it was delayed due to lack of continuity of budgetary support, interdepartmental coordination, and adequate monitoring and was not completed even after more than four decades.The project was only settled after PM Modi’s government took active measures to complete it, said the release, highlighting that of the total ₹9,800-crore cost of the project, more than ₹4,600 crore was provisioned in the last four years.“A project that was incomplete for four decades has been finished in four years,” PM Modi tweeted.What are the salient features of the Saryu Nahar National Project?• The project involves the interlinking of five rivers—Ghaghara, Saryu, Rapti, Banganga, and Rohini—to ensure optimum usage of water resources of the region. The sub canals with a length of 6,600km have been linked to the 318km main canal.• The project will provide assured water for irrigation of over 14 lakh hectares of land and benefit about 29 lakh farmers of more than 6,200 villages, according to the Prime Minister's Office (PMO).• The farmers of eastern UP, who were arguably the worst sufferers of the inordinate delay in the canal project, are now expected to benefit from the upgraded irrigation potential and grow crops on a larger scale, maximising the agri-potential of the region.• According to the Uttar Pradesh government, the canal project, in addition to providing a boost to the agriculture sector in eastern Uttar Pradesh, will also be an important milestone in the BJP government’s pledge to double the income of the farmers by 2022.• The canal system is also expected to protect the districts of eastern UP from recurrent floods.When the Prime Minister inaugurates the Saryu Nahar National Project on Saturday at Balrampur in Uttar Pradesh, protesting farmers will be returning to their villages from the Delhi border as a result of the peasants' unions calling off their year-long agitation against the now-repealed farm laws.It shows the farmers’ trust in the Bharatiya Janata Party government, a BJP leader told Hindustan Times, adding that functionaries have been mobilised to make the inauguration programme successful.The Yogi Adityanath-led Uttar Pradesh government has also launched a massive campaign on social media, as well as in the rural areas of eastern UP, terming the project a major achievement of the party’s double engine government at the Centre and in the state.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/modi-to-launch-saryu-canal-project-today-lakhs-of-farmers-in-east-up-to-benefit-101639179875435.html
11-12-2021||India||Toddler among 9 new Omicron cases in India; Tally up at 32||India has reported 32 cases of Omicron after seven new infections of the highly mutated variant of the coronavirus were detected in Maharashtra and two more in Gujarat, according to officials.There had been no new case of the Omicron variant in the country for the past three days. Now, the cases have been reported in four states and one Union Territory with 17 in Maharashtra, nine in Rajasthan, three in Gujarat, two in Karnataka and one in Delhi.Maharashtra reported seven new cases of Omicron, including a three-and-half-year-old girl, on Friday which took the tally of such infections to 17, the state health department said.Also read | Cabinet secy to hold Covid review meeting tomorrow amid rising Omicron case“As per the recent report from the National Institute of Virology, seven new Omicron cases have been reported in the state—three from Mumbai and four from the Pimpri Chinchwad Municipal Corporation,” an official release said.Among the seven new Omicron patients, four have been fully vaccinated, the release said.“One patient has received a single dose of the coronavirus vaccine while one patient has not been vaccinated. Another patient is three-and-half-year-old and not eligible for vaccination," it said.Omicron cases in MaharashtraAccording to the release, the three Omicron patients in Mumbai are all men, aged 48, 37 and 25 with recently came back from Tanzania, the UK and South Africa-Nairobi, respectively.The Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) said the man who returned from Tanzania was a resident of the densely-populated Dharavi slum area, but he was asymptomatic and isolated before he mingled in the community.Also read | Omicron variant: Boosters could provide 70% to 75% protection, shows UK studyThe Dharavi resident, who is not vaccinated, tested positive for Covid-19 on December 4 and has mild symptoms, according to the release. His two close contacts tested negative for Covid-19.The 37-year-old Gujarat resident tested positive to Covid-19 on December 4 after arrival. BMC said the fully vaccinated man was shifted to the hospital directly from the airport and he has mild symptoms.The 25-year-old man, who returned from London, tested positive for Covid-19 on December 1 and has no symptoms. He has taken both doses of the vaccine.Omicron cases in PuneThe other four new Omicron patients were reported from the Pimpri Chinchwad Municipal Corporation (PCMC) in the Pune district. All of them are contacts of three women who arrived from Nigeria and were found to have Omicron infection earlier, the release said.Also read | Govt warns about ‘risky’, 'unacceptable' level of mask usage amid Omicron scareFour of the new patients were asymptomatic while the other three have only mild symptoms, it added.Maharashtra deputy chief minister Ajit Pawar said five out of seven Omicron patients in the Pune district have now tested negative for the infection. Omicron cases in GujaratTwo more cases of Omicron was confirmed in Gujarat's Jamnagar on Friday after two contacts of the non-resident Indian (NRI) man, who was the first case of the state, tested positive for the new variant.Also read | Give correct address: Centre urges international travellers amid Omicron scareJamnagar municipal commissioner Vijaykumar Kharadi told news agency ANI all the three Omicron patients in the state are stable and asymptomatic and they are being treated at a hospital.The 72-year-old Zimbabwe-based NRI tested positive for Omicron after he came to Jamnagar last week. His wife and brother-in-law tested positive for Covid-19 and their samples were sent for genome sequencing. Other family members and contacts have not tested positive for the viral infection.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/toddler-among-9-new-omicron-cases-in-india-tally-up-at-32-101639181446716.html
11-12-2021||NA||Breaking news: Death toll due to tornadoes in Kentucky reaches 70||Welcome to hindustantimes.com live updates platform where you can find breaking news from India and across the world. Find fast updates about the latest news as it breaks.Follow all the updates here:Kentucky governor says death toll due to tornadoes passed 70Kentucky governor Andy Beshear said at least 70 people died due to the tornadoesMunicipal polls held in PalestinePalestinians in villages in the Israeli-occupied West Bank cast their votes in the local body polls. The polls were boycotted by the main opposition HamasJeff Bezos' Blue Origin sends 3rd crew to spaceJeff Bezos' Blue launched a six-member crew into space on SaturdaySmall outbreaks of Covid impact Chinese aviation industryChina's domestic air traffic faltered as the  Chinese government's zero-Covid policy enforces tighter travel rules in Beijing. Amazon warehouse roof collapse: 1 dead, 2 injured Storms continued to batter the US with states Illinois and Kentucky bearing the brunt. In south Illinois, severe weather caused Amazon facility in southern Illinois leading to the death of one person and injuries to two. 50 dead in Kentucky: ReportA storm ravaged the US, as four tornadoes wreaked havoc on Kentucky. ""I fear that there are more than 50 dead ... probably closer to somewhere between 70 and 100, it's devastating," Kentucky governor Andy Beshear said, according to AFP. Former NFL star to go to spaceJeff Bezos' rocket company, Blue Origin, is about to send football legend Michael Strahan into space ? with a football. The former NFL player and co-host of ABC's ?Good Morning America? is set to blast off from West Texas. https://t.co/HzBagMLAyeBezos to send NFL player to space. Former J-K CM says situation in state not ‘hunky-dory’#WATCH | It's sad. Govt says everything is hunky-dory. When police personnel aren't safe, how is a common man? China's occupying our territory, does the Govt of India allow discussion in the Parliament?: NC chief Farooq Abdullah, on yesterday's killings of 2 cops in Kashmir pic.twitter.com/tJBrxcNcifFarooq Abdullah was talking about the deaths of two cops in Bandipora on Friday. Efforts were made to ensure that poor don't go hungry during CovidCountry battled Covid 19, the biggest pandemic in 100 years and we made honest efforts to ensure that no poor goes to bed hungry. That is why we have increased the free ration scheme till past Holi: PM ModiPM Modi inaugurates Saryu Nahar Project“My cabinet has cleared the ₹45000 crore Ken Betwa project that will end water crisis in Bundelkhand," says PM Modi at the inauguration of Saryu Nahar Project. Omicron milder than Delta variant, say South African expertsDoctors and medical experts in South Africa have pointed out that the Omicron variant of Covid-19 is milder than the variant, even if the former is spreading faster. “They (Omicron patients) are able to manage the disease at home. They are able to manage the disease at home," Dr Unben Pillay said of his patients, according to news agency AP PM Modi inaugurates Saryu Nahar canal in UP's BalrampurPrime Minister Narendra Modi on Saturday inaugurated the Saryu Nahar National Project at Balrampur in Uttar Pradesh. Read moreFrom Monday, unvaccinated won’t be allowed in public places in TN's MaduraiFrom Monday, people in Tamil Nadu's Madurai district who have not been vaccinated against Covid-19 will not be allowed to enter public places, including business establishments and banks among others, news agency ANI reported on Saturday citing an order issued by the district collector. Read moreIslamic State claims responsibility for Friday's blast in KabulThe Islamic State has claimed responsibility for two explosions in Afghanistan's Kabul on Friday, according to reports on Saturday. At least two people were killed and three others were injured in the explosions.Ahmedabad: Home minister Shah lays foundation stone of Umiya Mata TempleUnion home minister Amit Shah on Saturday laid the foundation stone of the Umiya Mata Temple in Ahmedabad. Uttarakhand CM Dhami warns of action against objectionable comments about late defence personnelUttarakhand chief minister Pushkar Singh Dhami on Saturday warned of stringent legal action against anyone who makes any objectionable comment about any late defence personnel on social media or otherwise. Read more2 test +ve for Covid in MP's Indore after returning from Nigeria14-year-old girl, her eight-year-old brother test positive for COVID-19 in MP's Indore after returning from Nigeria five days ago, their samples being sent for genome sequencing: Health official. #OmicronEarthquake of 4.3 magnitude jolts AfghanistanAn earthquake with a magnitude of 4.3 on the Richter Scale, hit 145km East of Fayzabad, Afghanistan today at 10:17 am: National Center for SeismologyAn of 4.3 magnitude was reported in Afghanistan at 10.17am on Saturday. Delhi records second case of Omicron variant of Covid-19Second case of #OmicronVariant reported in Delhi. The person was fully vaccinated and was coming from Zimbabwe. The person had also travelled to South Africa: Government of DelhiDelhi has recorded second cases of the Omicron variant of Covid-19, news agency ANI reported on Saturday citing the Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) government. India sees fall in daily Covid tally at 7,992; new deaths at 393India's daily tally of the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) continued a downward trend on Saturday after 7,992 cases were recorded in the last 24 hours, taking the caseload to 34,682,736, according to the Union health ministry's update at 8am. Read more‘My nation demands answers’: Surjewala shoots 5 observations to govt on CovidCongress general secretary Randeep Surjewala on Saturday targeted the Centre over the ongoing coronavirus pandemic and made five observations, including those about the Omicron variant of the virus. Read moreDelhi: Protesting farmers start removing settlements from Tikri BorderDelhi: Farmers start removing their settlements from the Tikri Border, after the suspension of their year-long protest against the 3 farm laws & other related issues pic.twitter.com/4n0qZe1s3DFarmers who have been protesting agianst the Centre's three farm laws were seen removing their settlements from Delhi's Tikri Border on Saturday morning. Vaccine boosters help to bolster protection against Omicron, says CDCCenters for Disease Control and Prevention Director Rochelle Walensky said that initial data suggests COVID-19 vaccine boosters help to bolster protection against the Omicron variant of the coronavirus pic.twitter.com/qxDB6zMSeOCenters for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC) Director Rochelle Walensky said on Saturday that initial data suggested that vaccine boosters help to bolster protection against the Omicron variant of Covid-19. Farm stir not ended but on hold, says Chhattisgarh CM BaghelAs the farmers protesting against farm laws called off their agitation after the Centre repealed the laws and agreed to fulfill their pending demands, Chattisgarh chief minister Bhupesh Baghel said that the stir is not ended but is on hold. "Farmers have not withdrawn their agitation but put it on hold. The agitation has not ended. Farmers will look into the government's proposals first," Baghel told news agency ANI on Friday. AIMIM to launch campaign for Maharashtra municipal polls from todayThe All India Majlis-E-Ittehadul Muslimeen (AIMIM) will on Saturday launch its campaign for next year's Maharashtra municipal elections with party president Asaduddin Owaisi addressing a public rally at the Bandra-Kurla Complex (BKC) in Mumbai. Read morePM Modi to inaugurate Saryu Nahar National Project in UP todayPrime Minister Narendra Modi will on Saturday inaugurate the Saryu Nahar National Project in Uttar Pradesh's Balrampur. Read moreTaliban interim govt must not be recognised, says ex-US NSA advisorThe United States former National Security Advisor (NSA) John Bolton said on Friday that the interim government of Taliban - Islamic Emirate of Afghanistan must not be recognized as it has breached all its pledges.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/breaking-news-updates-december-11-2021-101639181527391.html
11-12-2021||India||Border protest sites get busy as farmers prepare to leave city||With farmers set to depart Delhi’s border points after nearly 13 months, activity has picked up at the Singhu and Ghazipur borders, where more trucks and tractor trolleys arrived on Friday.Most farmers will set off for their homes at 9am on Saturday.Farmers said the UP Gate protest site, meanwhile, will be completely cleared by December 15.The trucks that entered the borders were mostly empty, and were later loaded with tents, clothing and food, which sustained langar (community food) services.Farmers said they will not all leave at once on Saturday morning, in order to avoid chaos, and that some will stay back to clear the area. Others, meanwhile, said they have to wait for more tractor trolleys to arrive.“The larger tents will take a day or two to dismantle and we will need at least two trucks to take our belongings back,” says Harpal Singh, from Amritsar, adding that people from his village have already left for Delhi.Bhajan Singh, a member of Prabandak committee at Singhu Border, said farmers were instructed to try and send a majority of their belongings in trucks on Friday itself, with a joint march on tractors and trucks to be carried out on Saturday morning.“The extra day was for us to pack our belongings, dismantle tents and prepare for Saturday. While a majority of us will be able to leave, it may take another day or two to completely clean up the area,” he said.“Not all of us will leave together either as this may create chaos, but trucks will leave at regular intervals. The end-goal is to reach Golden Temple on December 13,” he added.Prime Minister Narendra Modi announced on November 19 that his government would abandon the contentious laws and Parliament repealed them on November 29.The SKM signed off on a final letter from the Centre on Thursday that contained key steps forward.“Most of our belongings have been packed and only a handful of the larger tents have been kept intact so that people can sleep the night there. The food, which was in several hundred kilos has also now been loaded in trucks,” said Kultar Singh from Sirhind in Punjab.“We have started packing up our stuff and are happy that we will soon be reunited with our families. The agitation was a success only because it was a collective effort — several of our brothers lost their lives during the course of the agitation,” said Puran Singh, a farmer from Lakhimpur Kheri in Uttar Pradesh at the UP Gate protest site.
11-12-2021||India||Man convicted of harbouring Pathan, who aimed gun at a cop during riots||A Delhi court has convicted a man for harbouring Shahrukh Pathan, the man who pointed a gun at a policeman and fired in air during the north-east Delhi riots, after the accused accepted his offence. This is the second conviction in the riots case.Pathan allegedly aimed a pistol at Delhi Police head constable Deepak Dahiya with an intention to kill him on February 24, 2020, according to the police.After the photographs of this incident went viral, Pathan absconded and was nabbed from Shamli district in Uttar Pradesh on March 3, 2020.Police claimed that Pathan took shelter at convict Kaleem Ahmed’s house in Shamli which, they said, is corroborated by their mobile phone locations.On December 7, additional session judge Amitabh Rawat convicted Kaleem Ahmed, the same day when it framed charges against Pathan.On that day, the court charged Pathan and three others under sections pertaining to attempt to murder, rioting, assault, rioting, unlawful assembly, obstructing public servants in the discharge of duty under of the Indian Penal Code (IPC) and the Arms Act.Additionally, the court also framed charges against Ahmed for harbouring an offender who has escaped from custody or whose apprehension has been ordered (section 216 IPC).The maximum punishment under this Section entails a jail term of up to seven years and a fine.The judge will hear the arguments on the point of sentencing him on December 16.Communal clashes had broken out in north-east Delhi in February 2020, after violence between the Citizenship (Amendment) Act supporters and its protesters spiraled out of control leaving at least 53 people dead and over 700 injured.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/man-convicted-of-harbouring-pathan-who-aimed-gun-at-a-cop-during-riots-101639173339686.html
11-12-2021||India||Jagannath temple servitor arrested on charges of sodomising 16-year-old||Bhubaneswar: A senior servitor of the 12th century Jagannath temple in Puri town was arrested on Friday on charges of sodomising a teenager within the temple premises, a senior police officer said.Police officers in Puri said servitor Laxmi Narayan Khuntia was arrested under sections 294, 377 and 506 of Indian Penal Code and section 6 of the Protection of Children from Sexual Offences (Pocso) Act after the boy’s father alleged that the minor was sodomised at Bhuvaneswari temple in the Jagannath temple premises 2 months ago. “The servitor has been arrested and the probe is on to collect more relevant information in connection with the case,” said Puri superintendent of police Kanwar Vishal Singh. The accused works as a servitor in Laxmi temple.The boy’s father said Khuntia took my son to Bhubaneswari temple two months ago where he first sodomised him. “He then used to take him to isolated corners behind the Laxmi temple and sexually assaulted him for several days. My son finally could not take it any longer and told me about his ordeal on Thursday evening,” the teenager’s father said in his complaint.He said the boy did not complain earlier because he had been threatened by the accused, and he has lodged formal complaints with the Shree Jagannath Temple Administration (SJTA) and the association of servitors as well.On October 9, police arrested Sangram Dash, priest of a subsidiary shrine in the Jagannath temple, for allegedly molesting a minor girl inside the shrine.There are over 6,000 sevitors at the Jagannath temple who perform at least 119 daily rituals, starting from 5am. The last of these rituals is at midnight which involves preparing the bed and bedsheets for the deities.Last month, Odisha kicked off the ambitious Shree Mandira Parikrama Project to develop areas around the Jagannath temple with an expected expenditure of ₹800 crore.The temple surroundings are being developed for the first time after Ganga dynasty kings built the temple to house the deities of Lord Jagannath and his siblings. The project is expected to be completed in 18 months.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/jagannath-temple-servitor-arrested-on-charges-of-sodomising-16yearold-101639168767620.html
11-12-2021||India||Coonoor chopper crash: Bodies of remaining 10 armed forces being identified||The process of identification of the mortal remains of the 10 armed forces personnel killed in the IAF chopper crash near Coonoor is being taken forward while keeping in mind the sensitivities and emotional well-being of the family members, officials said on Friday.They said family members of all the 10 personnel have arrived in the national capital to identify the remains.The officials said the help of the family members, as well as scientific measures, are being taken to identify the bodies.Gen Bipin Rawat, his wife Madhulika Rawat and his Defence Adviser Brigadier LS Lidder, killed in the crash, were cremated with full military honours at Delhi's Brar Square Crematorium as their bodies were positively identified.The mortal remains of the 10 personnel are kept in the mortuary of the Army Base Hospital in Delhi Cantonment.The bodies will be handed over to the families once they are "positively identified", the officials said."The emotional well-being of family members is of utmost importance to us. So we are taking forward the identification process keeping in mind the sensitivities involved," said an official.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/coonoor-chopper-crash-bodies-of-remaining-10-armed-forces-being-identified-101639161761560.html
11-12-2021||India||Kandhamal village’s dying hope of justice in police’s ‘mistaken identity’ killing||KANDHAMAL: More than five years after a bullet hit her 13-month-old son in his tiny stomach, Sunita Digal says she can’t forget the sound of gunfire as she cradled her baby on the night of July 8. She was also hit as she picked her baby and ran for safety. As she placed his lifeless body on the cot, she knew it was too late but hoped he could be revived. It took her a bit to get a hold of the situation. Then, the 27-year-old mother says, “my world came crashing down”.“As I looked at my dead child, I could not breathe,” she said, sitting outside the hut where she last held her son in July 2016. Sunita Digal said the memories come hurtling back when she hears of the tragedies like the Army firing in Nagaland’s Mon district that led to the death of 13 civilians and a soldier.On December 4 evening, when villagers of Mon district were returning home from work at a coal mine in a pick-up truck, they were fired at and killed by Indian Army soldiers who believed they were terrorists. The army and the government have regretted the firing calling it a case of “mistaken identity”.In Kandhamal’s Gumudumaha village, a habitation of 60 tribal and Dalit families deep inside the forest, another similar story played out on the night of July 8 five years ago when 16 tribals and Dalits carrying rice and other items squeezed themselves into an autorickshaw from nearby town of Baliguda to get back home. But their auto got stuck in the slush on the road next to their village. The passengers got out so that they could push the vehicle. The gunfire started moments later.Commandos of Action Team No 58 of Special Operations Group, Odisha’s elite anti-Maoist force, apparently thought they were Maoists and opened fire. Though the police later said the villagers were not Maoists, they claimed that the villagers were caught in the crossfire with a group of Maoists hiding nearby.Five died. Sunita Digal’s son, Jehad, was the youngest. Kukala Digal (50), a former sarpanch of Parampanga gram panchayat, Binguli Mallick (45), Kimari Mallick (40) and Midiali Mallick (45) lost their lives while seven others sustained serious injuries.The next of kin of the deceased received ₹9 lakh and jobs as peons in local government schools while the injured received compensation of ₹50,000 each.The government also promised to build them a real road; the one that doesn’t get washed away in the seasonal rains. Work to build the 12km stretch from the highway to the village was started under the Pradhan Mantri Gram Sadak Yojana but it still hasn’t been completed. The village got an electricity connection and an overhead water tank with 10,000-litre capacity. “But the power supply is erratic and the overhead water tank too does not get filled up due to low voltage issues,” said Bibi Mallick, whose wife Kimuri died in the firing.Families of the people who were killed in the incident said it is the lack of any effort to bring the guilty to justice that still rankles them the most.The Naveen Patnaik government did set up a judicial inquiry headed by the then Kandhamal district judge Mohammed Ajmal to probe the circumstances of the police firing. A special investigation team (SIT) was also formed with a superintendent of police (SP) ranked officer of the police’s Human Rights Protection Cell taking up the investigation on the basis of the FIR lodged by sergeant Nilakantha Kanhar, the officer leading the group of commandos that fired at the tribals. The government also announced a magisterial inquiry and an inquiry by the Revenue Divisional Commissioner, the reports of both have not been made public.The National Commission for Scheduled Tribes, which did a quick probe into the incident, said “prima facie, it appears that firing by the police was resorted to without sufficient cause or provocation” and asked for the judicial and the police probe to be completed within three months to ensure credibility of the inquiry and faith of people in justice.The National Commission for Scheduled Castes recommended cases against police personnel involved in the firing under the Scheduled Castes and the Scheduled Tribes (Prevention of Atrocities) Act. The Odisha Human Rights Commission which asked the state government to increase the compensation for the deaths from ₹5 to ₹9 lakh, however, refused to term the killing as “cold-blooded murder” because, it said, a judicial probe was pending.The judicial commission submitted a 104-page report to the home department in March 2018 but it is still a secret document because the government hasn’t placed it in the state assembly. The police probe by the human rights cell hasn’t gotten any further either. It is yet to file its first charge sheet.Sunil Narwane, additional director general of police who oversees the human rights cell, said the probe team is waiting for a copy of the judicial inquiry report from the government.“We have asked for a copy from the home department as we want to see what are the findings in it before we file charge sheet in the trial court,” said Narwane.Mohammed Ajmal, the Kandhamal district judge who retired soon after handing over his report in 2018, could not be contacted. He was appointed judicial member of the National Company Law Tribunal in 2019.Odisha home secretary Sanjeev Chopra did not respond to calls and text messages on the status of the judicial inquiry report.Sunita’s husband, Luta, wonders if they will ever get justice.“If anyone commits a crime, they are promptly arrested and punished. But in our village, 5 were killed and 7 were injured, but no one has been punished. The government made a fool of us in the last 5 years,” the 32-year-old said wondering “what kind of justice is this”.Luta and his wife Sunita also joined the protest last year outside the district collector’s office to demand that the judicial inquiry commission’s report be made public. “If the government does not want to tell us why the police fired on us why are they announcing inquiries,” Sunita asked.Human rights activist Biswapriya Kanungo said it appears increasingly unlikely that the victims of the Kandhamal firing will get justice.“In both the cases, innocents were gunned down. But in the Nagaland firing, the state government lodged cases against the army officials. In the Kandhamal firing, the FIR was registered by the SOG sergeant, who was at fault. The entire premise of the investigation thus would be based on what the SOG jawans said or believed. Besides, the judicial commission report is yet to be made public though such reports should be tabled in the assembly within six months of submission according to the Commission of Inquiry Act. I don’t see people of Gumudumaha ever getting justice,” said Kanungo.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/kandhamal-village-s-dying-hope-of-justice-in-police-s-mistaken-identity-killing-101639165525768.html
11-12-2021||India||Karnataka high court gives BBMP 3 months to take action against unauthorised buildings||Bengaluru: The Karnataka high court on Friday gave the Bruhat Bengaluru Mahanagara Palike (BBMP) three months’ time to take action against unauthorised buildings in the city. “Despite the work you have done on paper, action should be seen on the ground. You have demolished only three buildings. Our only effort is to sensitise you and make you aware of what is going on in the city. We will give you more time, but action should be seen on the field, not only on paper,” a division bench of chief justice Ritu Raj Awasthi and justice Sachin Shankar Magadum said on Friday. Earlier, BBMP submitted before the bench that there are 131,745 unauthorised buildings in Bengaluru.The court was hearing a suo motu public interest litigation (PIL) it had initiated in 2019 after noticing several instances of illegal constructions across Bengaluru.Observing that the BBMP has not taken any concrete step, except conducting a partial survey, in the past two years against illegal constructions, the high court on October 27 had directed the BBMP Commissioner to take concrete actions, including demolition of identified structures by December first week.Noticing from the chart submitted by Chief Commissioner Gaurav Gupta, indicating that 4,279 buildings have been identified for construction in deviation from sanctioned plan or against the bylaw, the court said that the commissioner’s statement did not indicate survey of buildings constructed sans sanctioned plan.Responding to this order, the BBMP on Thursday informed the court that they have surveyed 131,745 unauthorised buildings in the city. The BBMP commissioner told the court they had issued notices under Section 313 of the Karnataka Municipal Corporations Act to 16,286 building owners, for submitting documents to show that the buildings were not unauthorised constructions and have received replies from 1,712 of them.BBMP’s response stated that the teams surveyed 75,008 buildings in Bommanahalli Zone and served notices to 4,779 of them. In Rajarajeshwari Nagar, the civic body surveyed 38,147 buildings and served notices to 1,687. In the West Zone, 10,619 buildings were surveyed and 2,701 were served notices, the civic body said.The BBMP sought three months’ time from the court to complete the process and take action. Taking the submission into consideration, the court set a time frame of three months. “Considering the submission made by the counsel for the BBMP, we grant three months’ time to the BBMP to execute the action taken to plan as prepared by them and file the compliance report on the basis of annexure number 4 and 5 (details of survey and notice). The officer (Chief Commissioner) present will appear again on the next date,” the court said.Meanwhile, the counsel for the BBMP informed that a personal affidavit has been filed, explaining the steps taken to identify unauthorised constructions and the action taken on the issue. The hearing was adjourned to March 15, 2022, while asking Gupta to appear again.Apart from the unauthorised buildings, BBMP has identified 185 old buildings that are at the risk of collapse, but only 10 have been demolished. Even though instructions to demolish these buildings were given in 2019 itself, but no action has been taken. Fresh instructions were issued to demolish these buildings within seven days in October this year after at least three old buildings collapsed. However, the deadline was not met by the BBMP.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/karnataka-high-court-gives-bbmp-3-months-to-take-action-against-unauthorised-buildings-101639163425183.html
11-12-2021||India||Karnataka logs 314 new Covid cases, 2 deaths||Bengaluru Karnataka has reported 314 new cases of COVID-19 and two deaths, taking the total number of infections to 29,99,785 and death toll to 38,255, the Health Department said on Friday.The day also saw 339 getting discharged, taking the total number of recoveries so far to 29,54,196.Out of the 314 new cases, 179 were from Bengaluru Urban with the city seeing 204 discharged and two deaths.The total number of active cases in the State is 7,305.While the positivity rate for the day stood at 0.26 per cent, the case fatality rate (CFR) was 0.63 per cent.Both deaths reported in the State on Friday were from Bengaluru Urban.Among the districts where the new cases were reported, Bengaluru Urban accounted for 179, Dakshina Kannada and Kodagu 26, Chikkamagaluru 19, Mysuru 15 followed by others.Bengaluru Urban district topped the list of positive cases with a total of 12,58,509, Mysuru 1,80,019 and Tumakuru 1,21,190.Among the number discharged too, Bengaluru Urban topped the list with 12,36,666 followed by Mysuru 1,77,345 and Tumakuru 1,19,914.Cumulatively, a total of 5,43,50,973 samples have been tested in the State so far, out of which 1,19,766 were tested on Friday alone. PTI||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/karnataka-logs-314-new-covid-cases-2-deaths-101639163251620.html
11-12-2021||India||Beti Bachao Beti Padhao: States used only 25% of funds allocated, shows report||All states and Union territories have spent only 25.13% of funds allotted under the Centre’s flagship Beti Bachao Beti Padhao (BBBP) programme between 2015-15 and 2019-20, a parliamentary committee report revealed on Friday. The panel on Empowerment of Women, chaired by Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) lawmaker Dr. Heena V Gavit, also noted that out of a total of ₹446.72 crore released during the period 2016- 2019, “a whopping 78.91% was spent only on media advocacy”. The panel recommended that “it is time to focus on other verticals by making ample financial provisions to help achieve measurable outcomes related to education and health envisaged under the scheme”. Addressing reporters here, Gavit acknowledged that the low spending by states did not “an up to the mark performance of the scheme.” “We have recommended that the ministry of women and child development immediately takes up the issue with the states to ensure proper utilisation of funds. The Committee has also said that the nodal ministry must release funds strictly on the basis of actual utilisation of earlier release and after proper scrutiny of expenditure/ utilisation of the previous funds,” Gavit said.The panel will now take up the issue of a number of girl students dropping out of schools amid the pandemic. Sangeeta Kumari Singh Deo, a member of the panel, said, “Our initial estimates suggest that more girl students dropped out of private schools during Ccovid.” “The possible reasons might be that lack of internet facilities hampered education or that parents might be uninterested in paying fees when the schools remained closed. Government schools faced little problem as education is free there. We will study this carefully,” she said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/beti-bachao-beti-padhao-states-used-only-25-of-funds-allocated-shows-report-101639163245829.html
11-12-2021||India||Karnataka government issues fresh guidelines for discharge of Omicron patients||Bengaluru: The Karnataka government on Friday issued new guidelines for the discharge of patients who tested positive for the new variant of coronavirus, Omicron days after two cases of the highly mutated variant were confirmed in the state. According to the new guidelines, patients with mild and moderate symptoms will be discharged after 10 days from the onset of the symptom. However, in both cases the patient must be asymptomatic for the last three consecutive days, should maintain an oxygen saturation level of 95% (without oxygen support) for four consecutive days, two negative RT-PCR test reports 24 hours apart should be presented before getting discharge.These conditions for the discharge of patients have been laid out by the department of health and family welfare in the guidelines issued on Friday.The guidelines added that after discharge, home quarantine is advised for seven more days, with self-monitoring for symptoms and follow-ups from the district surveillance officer. “Home quarantine will end if an RT-PCR test conducted on the sixth day is negative,” the guidelines said.For cases with severe symptoms, including immunocompromised patients, the discharge protocol includes two negative RT-PCR tests (24 hours apart) three days after complete clinical recovery. A series of medical requirements has also been listed out by the health department for the discharge of such patients.The guidelines come after the Bengaluru police registered a case against a South African national on December 3, who tested positive for the Omicron variant of the coronavirus but left the country three days later based on a negative Covid-19 test report, which has now come under suspicion.Meanwhile, chief minister Basavaraj Bommai has announced that separate guidelines would be issued for student hostels and Covid clusters as part of the state’s Covid-19 management.“Considering the present positivity rate, there is no need to panic. But still, caution would continue as the committee has advised. Separate Guidelines would be issued for hostels which would include sanitisation, serving of food in staggered batches, maintaining distance, compulsory double dose vaccination for cooking personnel and setting up isolation rooms. Special standard operating procedures would also be released for managing Covid clusters in Bengaluru and other places,” Bommai said on Thursday.He also said that the Covid-19 vaccination drive will also be intensified again. “The precautions and guidelines at border areas of the state would continue. Action has been taken to ensure double dose vaccination and RTPCR test for students from Kerala,” Bommai said, while talking to reporters after attending a cabinet meeting.On imposing night curfew, restrictions on Christmas and New Year celebrations, Bommai said that an appropriate decision would be taken next week after taking stock of the situation.Meanwhile, another Covid-19 cluster has been detected at a nursing college at Bhadravathi town in Shivamogga district, health department officials said on Thursday. A total of 24 nursing students tested positive for Covid-19 in the Nirmala Nursing College and Shivamogga deputy commissioner KB Shivakumar told the media that the college has been sealed.Recently, students from the nursing college had travelled to Shivamogga city to take an examination. They developed symptoms after returning to the college. After getting tested, they were found positive for Covid-19. Since the college is attached to the nursing home, it has also been sealed and OPD services have been shut down, officials said.The state government has stepped up monitoring of all nursing and medical colleges across the state, especially in Davanagere, Tumakuru, and Dharwad districts, where clusters have been reported, health officials said. However, the state government is not considering a ban on offline classes at this time.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/karnataka-government-issues-fresh-guidelines-for-discharge-of-omicron-patients-101639163185142.html
11-12-2021||India||Six students of Andhra school drown in Krishna river||Six students of a Vedic school in Andhra Pradesh’s Guntur district, who went for a swim in Krishna river, drowned on Friday, home minister Mekathoti Sucharita said. Five of the deceased were identified as Harshit Shukla, Subham Trivedi, Anshuman Shukla, Shiv Sharma and Nitesh Kumar Dikshit and the body of the sixth student was yet to be identified. They are said to be from Uttar Pradesh. A statement from the home minister said the students, belonging to Swetha Srungachalam Veda Pathasala at Madipadu village, went for a swim in the river closer to their institution on Friday evening. “However, the students could not gauge the depth of the river at the spot and drowned in the waters. Police, who rushed to the spot on receiving the information, recovered the bodies with help of expert swimmers,” the statement said. Expressing deep shock over the incident, Sucharita said she had spoken to the higher police officials about the mishap and instructed them to take up a comprehensive inquiry to ascertain the reasons. The locals told police that there were whirlpools in the river at the spot but there were no boards warning the swimmers. Andhra Pradesh Governor Biswabhushan Harichandan expressed shock over the death of six students of the Vedic school. The governor said the institutions should take all precautions to ensure safety of the students.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/six-students-of-andhra-school-drown-in-krishna-river-101639163012296.html
11-12-2021||India||Over 99% turnout in Karnataka Legislative Council polls||Bengaluru: Over 99% voter turnout was recorded during the biennial election to the Karnataka Legislative Council’s 25 seats on Friday, with the border district of Belagavi recording the highest 99.98% turnout, the office of Chief Electoral Office (CEO), Karnataka said in a statement. The polling began at 8 am on Friday and ended at 4 pm. The results of the polls will be declared on December 14 and it will have a bearing on the power equation in the Upper House of the state legislature.“The polling concluded peacefully,” the office of the CEO said.While Belagavi recorded the highest turnout, Vijayapura district saw the lowest turnout at 99.55%.Elected members of the legislative assembly, members of parliament and other local bodies are eligible to vote in the election for the legislative council. The election was necessitated as the term of 25 incumbent MLCs, including 14 from the Congress, seven from the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) and four from the Janata Dal (Secular), ends on January 5.Chief minister Basavaraj Bommai on Friday said, “There is an indication that we will taste victory in all the constituencies we are contesting. All efforts are also being made to ensure this.”Bommai cast his vote in his home constituency of Shiggaon in Haveri district on Friday.The poll outcome will have a bearing on the power equation in the 75-member Upper House, with the BJP, JD(S) and the Congress hoping to secure victories to gain control of the Upper House of the legislature. A total of 90 candidates are in the fray for 20 Local Authority’s Constituencies.The elections come at a time when the ruling BJP in the state is facing severe criticism and its government has been accused of various charges, including of corruption and involvement in the alleged Bitcoin scam, in which several prominent political leaders and officials are alleged to have laundered money using cryptocurrencies.Politically too, the polls are crucial for Bommai after losing one of the two seats in the October 30 bypolls for Hanagal and Sindgi assembly constituencies.The defeat in Hanagal, a neighbouring district from Bommai’s home district, had fueled speculation of a growing divide within the saffron outfit and discontentment against the chief minister.The Congress is hoping to capitalise on the discord and dissent within the BJP and prepare the ground for other upcoming polls like zilla and taluka panchayats, Bruhat Bengaluru Mahanagara Palike (BBMP) and the 2023 state assembly elections.“My vote is for progress, unity and stability. That’s why people are choosing to vote for the Congress Party. Cast my vote for the MLC elections in Kanakapura,” DK Shivakumar, president of the Karnataka Pradesh Congress Committee (KPCC), said on Friday after casting his vote.He added that the Congress will win seats beyond its expectations and there are indications that the party will win even those constituencies it lost out on in the previous elections.The elections are crucial for all three political parties in the state to gauge the sentiments of their respective grassroots level support, which appeared to be waning over contentious decisions made by their top leaderships.The BJP has openly sought the support of the JD(S) in seats where the regional outfit is not contesting, prompting the Congress to call the two “allies”.The JD(S) has been tactful in denying support, but asking its local leaders to take a decision to support whichever party they choose in their respective districts that would benefit the regional outfit.Bukahalli C Manju, BJP’s candidate in Mandya, on Friday broke down in front of TV reporters, stating that there were people who spread rumours about him and hinted that some members of his own party refused to support him. Mandya is a bastion of the JD(S) and Manju’s allegations indicate that the BJP may have backed the regional outfit in the district to gain its support in other places it is not contesting.“(BS) Yediyurappa has become distraught and has asked for support from JD(S), which means the BJP has lost its strength,” Shivakumar said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/over-99-turnout-in-karnataka-legislative-council-polls-101639163009884.html
11-12-2021||India||Parliament: Oppn slams government over announcements at Glasgow climate summit||India’s decision to announce a net zero emissions target by 2070 in the context of the climate crisis facing the planet was debated at length in the Lok Sabha on Friday during a discussion on the outcomes of the Glasgow Climate Change Conference, also known as COP26.The debate ranged from why India announced the 2070 goal in Glasgow to whether the country managed to push the case for equity at the climate negotiations. MPs flagged issues such as palm oil cultivation, farm stubble fires, role of tribal people in conserving forests, etc.The debate that started on Wednesday and was deferred on Thursday continued through Friday, going overtime from noon to 4pm, after which it was deferred again. Union environment minister Bhupender Yadav’s response to concerns related to the outcomes at Glasgow was deferred.The minister was asked by Saugata Roy of the All India Trinamool Congress as to what prompted Prime Minister Narendra Modi to announce net zero emissions by 2070. Though India seemed against the idea of a net zero emissions target before the Glasgow conference, what pressure led to a volte face by Modi, Roy asked.“We agreed to phasing down of coal but why didn’t we push developed countries to phase out all fossil fuels,” Roy asked. He added that coal-dependent states such as West Bengal will be adversely impacted by the Glasgow decision. Intracountry climate equity will be a challenge for India, he said.Roy said a discussion on loss and damage should be initiated in the Sunderbans, one of the worst affected landscapes by climate change. Referring to books by author Amitav Ghosh, Roy said the Sunderbans area was battered by four cyclones in two years and is facing severe erosion.NK Premachandran of the Revolutionary Socialist Party of Kerala said India deserves appreciation for raising the issue of climate justice in Glasgow but it has not reflected in the operational paragraphs of the Glasgow Pact.“It’s a case of the rich hiding behind the poor. The concept of equity is being diluted globally. Instead of developed and developing countries, a new concept of emerging economies is being introduced which will dilute the principle of common but differentiated responsibilities under the Paris Agreement.”Tapir Gao, BJP MP from Arunachal Pradesh, said that tribal people were an important resource in solving the climate crisis. “Where there are tribals, there are forests,” he said.Agatha Sangma of the National People’s Party, an MP from Meghalaya, said 76% of her state is forests and it acts as a significant carbon sink for India. “The Indo Himalayan region is known for its distinctive biodiversity. It’s significantly different from the rest of the country. We cannot have nature-negative growth,” she said, adding that the government should go ahead with palm oil cultivation in the northeast and Andaman and Nicobar only after detailed consultations with the state governments. Meghalaya has come out with a concept of environment states, which will be environment-first economies, she said.Harsimrat Kaur Badal of the Shiromani Akali Dal said Punjab because of its agriculture-dominated economy is among the worst impacted by climate change. But every year Punjab’s farmers are blamed for causing air pollution due to stubble burning. “They have been burning stubble for centuries. Our farmers have played a major role in the country’s food security. The green revolution depleted our groundwater, and polluted water. Cancer cases are rising in Punjab,” she said.Yadav said stubble burning is decriminalised under the Commission for Air Quality Management in National Capital Region and Adjoining Areas Act.Jagdambika Pal of the BJP said the fact that the Lok Sabha was debating climate change and the Glasgow conference was a message to the world on India’s seriousness about the issue.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/parliament-opposition-slams-government-over-announcements-at-glasgow-climate-summit-101639162948500.html
11-12-2021||India||Kerala Governor threatens to quit chancellor post over political appointments in varsities||Peeved over alleged interference of the Kerala government in many varsities, Kerala Governor Arif Mohammad Khan has sent a letter to Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan, saying he was upset and willing to quit the chancellor’s post. People, who are aware of the development, said Khan has reportedly sent a letter to the CM and state higher educational council on Dec 8 in which he suggested the government “to bring an ordinance to remove him and he will be happy to sign it”. The governor is the chancellor of all universities and Khan recently requested all to make these varsities centres of excellence and avoid too many political appointments and interference. When contacted, people close to the government neither admitted nor denied receiving the letter. The Governor is in Delhi now. What really triggered his protest is the re-appointment of Kannur University vice chancellor Prof Gopinath Raveendran. He was re-appointed for a period of four years again and it was also challenged in the high court. The Save University Campaign Committee, a whistle blower in the higher education sector, had petitioned the governor several times pointing out too many political appointments bypassing other eligible candidates. The recent appointment of the wife of the CM’s political secretary KK Ragesh in Kannur university had kicked up a row.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/kerala-governor-threatens-to-quit-chancellor-post-over-political-appointments-in-varsities-101639162946179.html
11-12-2021||India||Maharashtra registers seven new Omicron cases, 3 from Mumbai||Maharashtra on Friday detected seven new Covid-19 cases of the Omicron variant, pushing the state’s tally to 17. Of the seven cases, three were detected in Mumbai including one in Dharavi. The remaining four cases are from Pimpri-Chinchwad in Pune district. Of the 17 found so far, six Omicron infected patients in the state have tested negative for Covid-19, and have been discharged, health department officials said.With the new cases in Mumbai, the total number of cases of the Omicron variant rose to five in the city. According to Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC), the newly infected patients are men of 25, 37 and 48 years of age. The 25-year-old returned to Mumbai from London on December 1, while the 37 and 48-year-old patients returned to Mumbai from South Africa and Tanzania, respectively, on December 4. All three patients are admitted at Seven Hills Hospital in Marol area of Andheri.Dr Mangla Gomare, executive health officer, BMC, said that besides the 25-year-old, the remaining two patients are not residents of Mumbai. “The 25-year-old is a resident of South Mumbai, the 48-year-old is a Chennai resident who had come to Mumbai’s Dharavi for professional work, while the 37-year-old is a resident of Gujarat,” Gomare said.After the reports of the patients came out positive in the RT-PCR tests taken by them on arrival at the airport, the samples were sent to the National Institute of Virology (NIV) in Pune for Whole Genome Sequencing (WGS), the report of which came on Friday.The BMC also added that the 25 and 37-year-old patients were fully vaccinated, and the 37-year-old has mild symptoms, while the remaining patients are asymptomatic. The 37-year-old was admitted to the hospital by the airport authorities as a precautionary measure while the remaining two patients were hospitalised after their reports turned out to be positive.Kiran Dighavkar, assistant municipal commissioner said that the Tanzania returnee who went to Dharavi had to take a compulsory test at the airport as he was not vaccinated. “The patient was asked to wait at the airport till reports came, however, he left for Dharavi in the evening and the RT-PCR report came out to be positive. Following which, the local ward office (G/North) tracked the patient and the sample was sent for genome sequencing,” Dighavkar said. Dharavi, a densely populated slum of at least 850,000 people with a population density of 354,167 per square km, was a hotspot of Covid-19 infections in the first wave of Covid-19 in 2020.BMC officials said that the high-risk contacts of all three patients have been tracked and tested, and none of them have tested positive.According to the health department, the four new cases in Pimpri-Chinchwad are contacts of a Nigerian national (of Indian origin), who was detected with the Omicron strain of the virus on December 5. The 44-year-old-woman, along with her two daughters had come to Pimpri-Chinchwad on November 24 to meet her brother. “Out of seven patients found today, four have been vaccinated. One patient has received a single dose of the vaccine, while one patient has not been vaccinated. One of the patients is a three-and-a-half-year-old so not eligible for vaccination. Four patients are asymptomatic while three patients have mild symptoms,” a statement from the health department said.Since December 1, 61,439 passengers, including 9,678 passengers from at-risk countries, have arrived at airports in Mumbai, Pune and Nagpur. The state has found 20 Covid-19 positive cases of people from at-risk countries and five from other countries. Field surveillance is underway of all international passengers who arrived since November 1. Through the airport and field surveillance, 89 samples have been sent for genomic sequencing. Results of 47 are awaited so far, the health department said.Maharashtra on Friday added 695 fresh Covid-19 infections, pushing the state’s tally to 6,642,372. It reported 12 deaths, taking the death toll to 141,223. Mumbai added 194 new Covid-19 infections, and added one fatality. The active case count in the state stood at 6,534.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/maharashtra-registers-seven-new-omicron-cases-3-from-mumbai-101639162884854.html
11-12-2021||India||Chabahar port more economical, stable route to reach India: Jaishankar||Iran’s Chabahar port has emerged as a commercial transit hub for the region and is a “more economical and stable route” for landlocked countries to reach India and the global market, external affairs minister S Jaishankar said on Friday.Jaishankar’s remarks in a written reply to a question in Lok Sabha indicated India’s continuing commitment to the port on the Gulf of Oman despite speculation about its viability following the takeover of Afghanistan by the Taliban in mid-August.“The Chabahar port has provided much needed sea-access to landlocked Afghanistan. The port has also emerged as a commercial transit hub for the region. It is a more economical and stable route for landlocked countries of the region to reach India and the global market,” he said in response to a question from Bahujan Samaj Party MP Ritesh Pandey.Pandey posed a supplementary query on the impact of US sanctions and the contention by the Iranian side that the project has been delayed, and Jaishankar replied: “I would like to inform the honourable member that his assertion is completely inaccurate. This agreement was signed in 2016. We took possession of the terminal in 2018. We have already supplied six cranes. The terminal is fully functional.”Jaishankar added that US sanctions on Iran “are not relevant to this project at all”.He further said in his written reply that Chabahar port facilitated the delivery of humanitarian assistance, especially during the Covid-19 pandemic, and India used it to ship 75,000 tonnes of wheat as food assistance to Afghanistan in 2020. A total of 110,000 tonnes of wheat and 2,000 tonnes of pulses have been trans-shipped from India to Afghanistan so far.During Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s visit to Iran in May 2016, a trilateral agreement to establish the International Transport and Transit Corridor (Chabahar Agreement) was signed by India, Iran and Afghanistan. India is participating in developing the first phase of Shahid Beheshti terminal at the port in cooperation with the Iranian government.Jaishankar said India has committed a total grant assistance of $85 million and a credit facility of $150 million for developing Shahid Beheshti terminal.“As part of our commitment towards infrastructure development of Shahid Beheshti terminal, Chabahar port, India has supplied [six] mobile harbour cranes (two 140 tonnes and four 100 tonnes capacity) and other equipment worth $25 million,” Jaishankar said.The Indian company, India Ports Global Limited, through its wholly owned subsidiary, India Ports Global Chabahar Free Zone, took over operations at Chabahar port on December 24, 2018. Since then, it has handled 160 vessels, 14,420 TEUs (twenty-foot equivalent units) of cargo and 3.2 million tonnes of bulk and general cargo.The Shahid Beheshti terminal has handled shipments and trans-shipments from countries such as Russia, Brazil, Thailand, Germany, Ukraine, Oman, Romania, Bangladesh, Australia, Kuwait, Uzbekistan and the United Arab Emirates.
11-12-2021||India||Mirzapur web series: HC quashes FIR against Farhan Akhtar, others||The Allahabad high court on Friday quashed an FIR registered against ‘Mirzapur’ web series producers Farhan Akhtar and Ritesh Sidhwani, along with others, for allegedly hurting religious, social and regional sentiments through their portrayal of Mirzapur district of Uttar Pradesh.On January 17, the UP police registered an FIR against the makers of the “Mirzapur” series under Section 295-A (deliberate and malicious acts, intended to outrage religious feelings of any class by insulting its religion or religious beliefs) and other sections of the Indian Penal Code and Section 67-A of the Information Technology Act.Others accused in the case are Karan Anshuman, the director of season one, Gurmeet Singh, the director of season two, Vineet Krishna, the writer of season one, and Puneet Krishna, the writer of season two.On XXXX, Akhtar and Sidhwani approached the high court seeking quashing of the FIR.Appearing for the petitioner, senior advocate Manish Tiwari argued that even if all allegations in the FIR were accepted to be correct, no case was made out against the petitioners. There was no allegation that the web series was produced with any deliberate or malicious intention of outraging the religious and social feelings of the citizens of India or to insult the religious and social feelings of the people of any particular class, the counsel argued.The state counsel, however, submitted that there was a specific allegation that the web series hurt the social and religious feelings of the first informant.After hearing both the parties concerned, a two-judge bench comprising justices M C Tripathi and Subhash Vidyarthi observed: “There is no allegation in the entire F.I.R. that any content shown in the Series portrays any particular religion in a bad light and which can possibly hurt the religious feelings of a class of citizens.”Earlier, on January 29, 2021, the court had stayed their arrest in the case.“Even as per the averments made in the First Information Report, it is the informant alone whose religious, social and regional sentiments have been hurt by the web series and not those of any class of citizens. There is nothing on record to indicate that besides the informant, the religious beliefs of any class of citizens were hurt by the web series Mirzapur and what to say about the same having been done with deliberate and malicious intention,” added the bench.The court further observed, “Upon a specific query being made from the learned counsel for the informant as well as the learned A.G.A appearing for the State, they could not point out any other complaint, First Information Report, resentment or agitation of any form having been made by any class of citizens showing that the web series has outraged their religious feelings.”The bench, while allowing the petition, observed, “The F.I.R. alleges that illicit relations amongst family members has been shown in the Web Series, but there is no allegation in the F.I.R. that “sexually explicit act or conduct” has been shown in the series. It is settled law of interpretation of Statutes that while interpreting any provision of a Statute, neither any word can be added nor can it be ignored. This principle is applicable in a more stringent manner while examining the provisions of a penal law.”“Therefore, no word can be ignored from the phrase “sexually explicit act or conduct” occurring in Section 67 A of the IT Act and if the act or conduct shown in the Series does not contain sexually explicit act and it shows the same only in an implied manner, the same would not attract the provisions of Section 67 A of the IT Act,” observed the bench while quashing the impugned FIR.NEEDS A RESPONSE FROM THE COMPLAINANT||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/mirzapur-web-series-hc-quashes-fir-against-farhan-akhtar-others-101639162645662.html
11-12-2021||India||Winter session: Legislative agenda may get pruned amid Opposition protests||Parliament will take up the central government’s additional budget or the supplementary demand for grants on Tuesday and a host of other legislation amid speculations that the Centre didn’t have much business left in the winter session.A raft of bills, including the one to repeal the three farm laws, have been passed in Parliament. But with the government holding back a few key bills for the next session, the legislative agenda might get pruned.A top Lok Sabha functionary added that apart from the supplementary demand for grants—the only bill that’s a constitutional requirement in this session-- the Narcotic Drugs and Psychotropic Substances (Amendment) Bill will be taken up to replace an ordinance.The government has told the farmers that the contentious electricity bill—that proposes to allow private firms to compete with discoms in same territory—has been shelved as per the agreement with the farmer bodies to end their protests. “An amendment to the banking laws is also uncertain in this session and some of the bills mentioned in the initial list of 26 bills for passage in this session are unlikely to come,” said a senior Lok Sabha functionary.The other bills expected in this session are the mediation bill that aims pre-litigation mediation and at the same time safeguards in the interest of the litigants to approach competent adjudicatory forums in case an urgent relief is sought, the National Anti-Doping Bill to give a legislative framework to the National Anti-Doping Agency for meeting the obligations of India and The Chartered Accountants, the Cost and Works Accountants and the Company Secretaries (Amendment) Bill, 2021 to reform and speed up the disciplinary mechanism of the institutes.The top Lok Sabha functionary added that a debate on price rise will take place in the Lower House next week. The same topic was slotted for a debate in the Upper House too, but failed to take place due to disruptions.
11-12-2021||India||Construction of resort in Rushikonda draws flak from environmentalists||The ongoing construction of a high-rise resort in Rushikonda Hills, abutting the popular Rushikonda beach on the outskirts of Visakhapatnam city, has kicked up a row with several environmentalists alleging ‘destruction of the area for commercial purposes’. On Friday, former Andhra Pradesh chief secretary L V Subrahmanyam wrote to Raj Bhavan secretary R P Sisodia, seeking the intervention of Governor Biswabhushan Harichandan in the destruction of the hills by the state government in the name of tourism development.Subrahmanyam, who served as chief secretary of the Y S Jagan Mohan Reddy-led government between June and November 2019, approached Raj Bhavan after taking note of a series of social media posts on the indiscriminate digging of hills for the construction of the multi-storeyed tourism resort.“How can this (destruction) be allowed to go on? Are we having any concern for conservation? Wish the Governor questions this action. We cannot be silent spectators. An innocent tribal is not allowed this liberty in his habitat where options are few. But here with all options for alternative this marauding of ecology is simply unpardonable. We must halt this at once (sic),” Subrahmanyam said in the letter.Till recently, Andhra Pradesh Tourism Development Corporation (APTDC) had been running a tourism resort comprising a group of cottages on the Rushikonda hills to allow tourists to enjoy the view of the picturesque beach abutting the hill.However, in February this year, the state government decided to demolish the existing resort and construct a brand new multi-storeyed five-star hotel-cum-resort at the spot at a cost of ₹190 crore. “The new hotel will certainly put the port city of Visakhapatnam on the international tourism map,” state tourism minister Muttamsetti Srinivasa Rao had said earlier. The construction work for the new resort began in August even as several environmentalists, local NGOs and opposition parties condemned the plan. “The entire area is barricaded so that nobody would go near the area to know what is happening inside,” Subrahmanyam said.Retired IAS officer and former Union energy secretary E A S Sarma said the state government had obtained environmental clearance from the Centre for the construction on Rushikonda hill by stating that it was only remodelling the existing resort and as such, there will be no damage to the hill or vegetation. But what is going on there is exactly the contrary, he added. “The construction activity has extensively damaged the otherwise scenic Rushikonda hill terrain, leaving ugly scars and causing extensive denudation of the vegetation there,” Sarma, who has been fighting environmental issues such as industrial pollution in Vizag and illegal mining in forest areas, told HT.Sarma claimed that the ongoing construction at Rushikonda also violated the Master Plan of Visakhapatnam Metropolitan Region Development Authority (VMRDA).“It is also in violation of the Coastal Region Zone (CRZ) regulation, as no high-rise structures should be allowed adjacent to the sea,” the retired bureaucrat said.Senior Telugu Desam Party leader Bandaru Satyanarayana Murthy said the Jagan government decided to demolish the existing resort and construct a five-star hotel to favour contractors and make money. “Right from the beginning, the government has been bent on demolitions. By projecting Visakhapatnam as the executive capital and taking up such projects, the government is hoping for an increase in the land value,” he said.When contacted, APTDC chairman A Varaprasada Reddy said the multi-storied tourism resort was coming up in two levels on the hills, in place of the earlier small cottages, and no major destruction was taking place. “We have not violated any environmental laws. We shall be restoring the pristine glory of Rushikonda. Once it is completed, it is going to be a major tourism landmark in Visakhapatnam,” Reddy said. 
11-12-2021||India||Political discourse must improve in social media age, says Supreme Court||State force should never be used to browbeat a political opinion, the Supreme Court held while it called for an improvement in the public discourse, especially in the age of social media.Urging the political class to be more tolerant of each other’s opinion while maintaining a temperate language in their critiques, a bench headed by justice Sanjay Kishan Kaul said that the debasement in dialogue has become a chief problem of democracy.“It is undoubtedly the debasement in the dialogue which is taking place which needs introspection from the political class across the country. In a country which prides itself on its diversity, there are bound to be different perceptions and opinions, which would include political opinions. That is the very essence of a democracy,” said the bench, which also included justice MM Sundresh.“No doubt, by the very nature of the job required to be performed by the political class, at times their exchanges may get heated. But it should not explode. We are sure difference in perception can be expressed in better language,” noted the bench in its order, as it lamented the decline in the quality of dialogue in the public arena.The order was passed on Thursday, but released the following day.In it, the bench also urged state governments not to use the State’s powers to intimidate journalists for reporting on something which is already in public domain or is in exercise of their right to free speech and expression.“State force should never be used to either browbeat a political opinion or the journalists suffer the consequences of what is already in the public domain,” held the court.At the same time, the bench added that “this does not take away the responsibility of the journalists in how they report the matter, more so in a Twitter age”.The court’s discontent came through as it quashed four criminal cases registered by the West Bengal Police against editors and journalists of web portal OpIndia. The FIRs were lodged against OpIndia editor Nupur J Sharma, her husband Vaibhav Sharma, portal founder and CEO Rahul Roushan, and the former editor of its Hindi division Ajeet Bharti. The cases invoked charges relating to promoting enmity between religious groups, outraging religious feelings, attempt to provoke breach of peace and defamation.After the state government informed the top court on Thursday that it has decided not to pursue the criminal prosecution in the four cases, the bench proceeded to quash the FIRs.“We are, however, not inclined to let go of the opportunity of saying something which is troubling the society and the court. It is undoubtedly the debasement in the dialogue which is taking place which needs introspection from the political class across the country,” rued the bench.It underlined that the very fact that FIRs were lodged against the journalists for reproducing what the political class has said against each other, and which was already in the public domain, is an indication of degradation in public discourse.“We must appreciate the stand taken by the state government and allay any apprehension of the that it may be perceived in a negative sense in public domain. If at all, the stand is to be appreciated of better late than never and should be a model for others to follow,” stated the court order.During the hearing on Thursday, the bench cited the example of former prime ministers PV Narasimha Rao and Atal Bihari Vajpayee to point out that despite belonging to different political parties and opposing each other at several public platforms, both the leaders maintained a mutual respect for each other and always used appropriate language.
11-12-2021||India||NGT stays ring road plan in Auroville amid protests||There is a disorder at tranquil experimental township of Auroville, which lies in Puducherry and Tamil Nadu’s Villupuram district, with residents protesting against the Auroville Foundation clearing their building and trees to implement a ring road project called Crown Road. On December 9, Auroville residents stood around a JCB in Darkali forest and began chanting “Om” which they described as a way of bringing calm amid the chaos. The entire community has been shaken up with events in the past week saying they were attacked when they tried to stop JCBs and visuals show that there has been violence. On Friday, they got a temporary relief with the National Green Tribunal (NGT) granting an interim stay on the road project till December 17.The Crown Road project is 4.4 km long for which trees under the definition of “Deemed Forest” and Auroville’s Youth Centre which is near the iconic Matrimandir have to go. The Auroville residents say they aren’t against the project but rather want a consensus to find a way to develop the project without disrupting its environments such as the water paths. Meetings to discuss the Crown Road project have been going on for a few months between the Residents Assembly, which includes all Aurovillians about 3,500 of them, and Auroville Foundation, an autonomous body established in 1988 under the administrative control of the ministry of human resource development.But, the trouble began, Auroville residents say, when they were caught by surprise on the morning of December 4, when a JCB arrived without prior warning and began to clear sections of the forest two days earlier than scheduled. They protested and the JCB went back. “This itself was a shock. In Auroville, we normally resolve contentious issues through dialogue,” said a resident of 18 years who didn’t wish to be identified. But it got worse. In the intervening night of 4-5 December around 1 am there was an unexpected and dramatic midnight bulldozing of the forest next to the Youth Centre, said a statement from the Residents Assembly. “The youth living here were not notified and were shocked at the late night presence of JCB’s next to their house, flanked by 200 police, cordoning off the area and acting with aggression,” the statement said. A foreign resident, who has been in Auroville since its inception, said they were intimidated by police. “They asked if we had valid visas. Threatened to take our passports and some even said go back to your country,” the resident said wishing not to be identified. “Everything that is happening is against the very ideals of Auroville.” The residents say they were beaten, their phones were taken away and children were also rounded up. The following day, on December 6, the government appointed secretariat of the Auroville Foundation gave an ultimatum stating that if residents did not agree before 7am the next morning to dismantle the buildings in the Youth Centre themselves, then it would be done by force, the Residents Assembly statement said. “Feeling pressurised and with violence fresh in people’s hearts, the residents did not have time to call for a community-wide consultation. A small group of Aurovilians had a meeting with the Secretariat and a compromise was drafted.” The residents said they arrived at a painful decision of dismantling the buildings of the Youth Centre by themselves.But on December 9, there was another kerfuffle when the residents tried to stop a JCB near the Youth Centre and locals who are non-Aurovillians can be seen pushing the residents in visuals. “We could tell they weren’t from our surroundings because we have a good relationship with people in villages adjacent to Auroville,” said one of the residents quoted above. They painfully expressed that some of the first Aurovilians watched a 50-year-old tree and their Youth Centre being brought down. A resident, Divya, wrote a scathing letter addressed to the Foundation’s members. “Today I climbed on top of the JCB which was working at the YC, and asked the driver to stop the machine. The driver was scared, he would have stopped. But 20 goondas surrounding the JCB, lifted me off and carried me away. Of course, in the process, I got hurt physically, but that is not the point,” she said. “Human Unity will not be built by bringing police or goondas from villages. Neither will the city be built this way.”The Foundation responded that under The Mother’s direct guidance a plan for the Auroville Township plan was prepared known as the Galaxy Plan. It was presented along with the Charter of Auroville during the inauguration of Auroville on February 28, 1968. Residents of Auroville formulated a Master Plan in 1999 based on the Galaxy Plan, which was unanimously approved by the Residents Assembly and sent to the Governing Board for approval. The Governing Board referred the plan to the Town and Country Planning Organisation of the Ministry of Housing and Urban Development (GoI) for a review which resulted in the Auroville Universal Township Master Plan (perspective 2025), which was approved by the Governing Board and the Ministry of HRD in April 2001 and was notified in part 3 of the Gazette of India on August 16, 2010. “The Auroville Master Plan provides for a population of 50,000 residents by 2025. The present population of Auroville is only about 3,500,” the foundation’s statement said.Responding to the events on December 4, the foundation said abusive language and several other aggressive moves such as spitting, shouting etc. was used against the team at work. “Work was stopped, and resumed in the night, after cordoning off some of the entry routes, hoping that this would help to bring less people to stop the work and put themselves and others in physical danger,” Foundation spokesperson Sindhuja Jagadeesh said. On December 9, the Foundation said they were at the site with 3 JCBs, since work of clearing, the Youth Center should have done in the days prior when it was agreed residents would demolish it. NGT orders interim stay on tree fellingAuroville residents have a brief relief for a week. One of the residents, Navroz Kersasp Mody, moved the southern bench of the NGT to protect the forest and on Friday the tribunal granted interim stay against tree felling in Auroville. The matter has been posted to 17 December and the NGT directed the Auroville Foundation to file a response against the allegations. The learned counsel appearing for Tamil Nadu submitted that the state government has no interest in this matter. Though part of the area falls within Tamil Nadu but the area where activities are going on is exclusively in the possession of the Auroville Foundation and high dignitaries are at the helm of affairs of the administration of the Foundation, the NGT order read. 
11-12-2021||India||J&K: 2 cops killed as terrorists open fire on police team in Bandipora||Srinagar: Two policemen were killed in a terrorist attack in Bandipora town of Jammu and Kashmir on Friday.According to Kashmir Police, the incident took place at Gulshan Chowk when terrorists opened fire on a police team. Selection grade constable Mohammad Sultan and constable Fayaz Ahmad were injured in the attack and rushed to a nearby hospital where they succumbed to injuries, police said. “#Terrorists fired upon a police party at Gulshan Chowk area of #Bandipora. In this #terror incident, 02 police personnel namely SgCT Mohd Sultan & Ct Fayaz Ahmad got injured & attained #martyrdom. Area cordoned off. Further details shall follow. @JmuKmrPolice,” Kashmir Police tweeted. Following the attack, senior army and police officers cordoned the area and launched a search for the assailants, officials familiar with the matter said. Police believe two to three terrorists could be behind the attack, they added. Condemning the attack, Bharatiya Janata Party J&K spokesperson Altaf Thakur said: “The killing of two policemen who were on duty is barbaric and highly condemnable and those responsible for the attack should be identified.” National Conference leader Omar Abdullah tweeted: “I condemn the militant attack on the police in Bandipore area of North Kashmir earlier today that resulted in the death in the line of duty of J&K police personnel Muhammad Sultan and Fayaz Ahmad. May Allah grant them Jannat & may their families find strength at this time.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/jk-2-cops-killed-as-terrorists-open-fire-on-police-team-in-bandipora-101639162468465.html
