12-12-2021||India||India may invite 5 central Asian leaders for Republic Day: Officials||India is looking at the possibility of having the leaders of the five Central Asian states as the chief guests at next year’s Republic Day celebrations against the backdrop of the country’s focus on the strategic region for connectivity, trade and security. The move to send invitations to the heads of state of Kazakhstan, Kyrgyzstan, Tajikistan, Turkmenistan and Uzbekistan also fits in with the Indian government’s focus on multipolarity and rebalancing, people familiar with the development said on condition of anonymity. However, the matter is yet to be finalised as responses were awaited from all the Central Asian states, said two people, including a diplomat from a Central Asian state. The chief guest for Republic Day celebrations is chosen in keeping with India’s strategic, diplomatic and economic interests, as well as New Delhi’s relations with the concerned country. Ties with the Central Asian states have been on the upswing in recent years following the government’s focus on the region. If the move goes ahead, it will be only the second time that heads of state of a bloc or group of countries have been invited to the Republic Day celebrations. In 2018, the heads of the ten countries in the Association of Southeast Asian Nations (Asean) were the chief guests at the annual event. In 2009, the Kazakhstan president was the chief guest at Republic Day. The foreign ministers of the five Central Asian states are set to hold a meeting with their Indian counterpart S Jaishankar in New Delhi between December 18-19, the people cited above said. This will be the third such meeting of the foreign ministers since 2019, and India has offered a $1-billion line of credit to the five Central Asian states for projects in connectivity, energy, IT, agriculture, healthcare and education. The importance of the Central Asian states in the context of regional security has increased following the Taliban takeover of Afghanistan in mid-August. Top security officials of all five Central Asian states, Iran and Russia had attended a regional security dialogue on Afghanistan that was hosted by India on November 10. The Delhi Declaration of Afghanistan, issued after the meeting, said all eight countries were committed to combating terrorism to ensure that Afghanistan would never become a haven for global terrorism. All the countries had also called for the formation of a truly inclusive government in Kabul. Uzbekistan is crucial for India’s plans to boost connectivity with Central Asia as it is part of a trilateral working group on the joint use of Chabahar port along with Iran. 
12-12-2021||India||Reforms protected 98% bank a/c holders: Modi||Recent changes in law have provided a cumulative insurance cover of ₹76 trillion that protects deposits of 98% of all account holders in India’s banks, boosting confidence in the sector, Prime Minister Narendra Modi said on Sunday.“Banks play a big role in the prosperity of the country, and depositors’ protection is equally important for the prosperity of banks,” Modi said at an event organised by the Union ministry of finance on Depositors First: Guaranteed Time-bound Deposit Insurance Payment up to ₹5 lakh. “If we want to save banks, then depositors have to be protected.”The Deposit Insurance and Credit Guarantee Corporation (DICGC), a specialised arm of the Reserve Bank of India, guarantees each depositor a maximum of ₹5 lakh, including principal and interest, if a bank fails.The government in February last year amended law to raise the insured amount from ₹1 lakh to ₹5 lakh, and in August this year set a 90-day limit to provide the insured amount to account holders. The move was aimed at providing relief to the maximum number of depositors of stressed PMC Bank, Yes Bank and Lakshmi Vilas Bank in a timebound manner.The system of covering bank depositors was introduced in the 1960s, the Prime Minister said. Earlier, out of the amount deposited in the bank, a sum of ₹50,000 was guaranteed. It was then raised to ₹1 lakh.Understanding the concerns of the poor, understanding the concern of the middle class, we increased this amount to ₹5 lakh,” Modi said. “Earlier, where there was no time limit for refund. Now our government has made it mandatory within 90 days.”In the past few days, more than 100,000 depositors have got back their money worth cumulatively over ₹13 billion that was stuck for years, Modi said. He handed over cheques to some depositors on the spot at Vigyan Bhawan in the Capital.The first portion of interim payments has been released by DICGC against claims received from depositors of 16 urban cooperative banks whose operations have been restricted by the central bank.The government is making efforts for financial inclusion, Modi said. As a result, almost every village has banking facilities, either a branch or a banking correspondent, within a radius of 5km, the Prime Minister said.Recent policy measures have provided facilities such as insurance and bank loans to a large, underserved segment of the poor, women, street vendors and small farmers, Modi said. More than half of Jan Dhan accounts belong to women, he said.It helped in the economic empowerment of women, he said. The Pradhan Mantri Jan Dhan Yojana (PMJDY), the country’s financial inclusion initiative launched six years ago, has more than 403.5 million accounts with total deposits in excess of ₹1.3 trillion.The government has taken several steps to protect depositors’ interest and strengthen banks, Union finance minister Nirmala Sitharaman said at the event. It has ensured that middle-class households, who have put their hard-earned savings in banks, get some additional protection, she said.She also pointed to getting money back in a timely manner. ”There were cases of people who had waited for their deposits for five years, six years, seven years and couldn’t get the money back because either the bank had to be liquidated, or some kind of amalgamation had to happen (legal processes often take time),” Sitharaman said.This was an “important milestone” in the protection of depositors, Reserve Bank governor Shaktikanta Das said on the occasion. He summed up the guiding principles of the Indian banking sector in four points – depositors first, deposit insurance, supervision for robust banking, and discerning depositors.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/reforms-protected-98-bank-a-c-holders-modi-101639333624930.html
12-12-2021||India||Kashi Vishwanath Corridor: ‘PM’s pet project rejuvenated the temple complex’||For years, the Kashi Vishwanath temple has been a part of Vijay Yadav’s weekly routine. The 28-year-old, who lives in the Pandeypur neighbourhood of Uttar Pradesh’s Varanasi city, walks to offer his prayers to Hindu god Shiva, often braving masses of people, animals and garbage in the cramped lanes that lead to the centuries-old shrine.Now, Yadav feels the new Kashi Vishwanath corridor will transform the area, and the city. “Earlier, there was space crunch in the temple complex. The corridor has created a lot of space…5,000 devotees may remain present in the corridor at any time,” he said. “It is really grand.”Yadav is one of many devotees in Varanasi who are looking forward to the inauguration of the ₹700 crore Kashi Vishwanath Corridor on Monday. Many of them have memories attached to the old cobbled streets and the neighbourhood, but admit that the mega facelift project was necessary.“People want comfort and facilities during their visit. PM Modi knows it well, The corridor has rejuvenated and beautified the Kashi Vishwanath temple complex,” said Ashwini Chaubey, another pilgrim who lives in the Pandeypurneighbourhood.The redevelopment project, comprising 24 buildings constructed over 550,000 sq. ft, comes months ahead of a high-stakes election in Uttar Pradesh, where the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) is hoping to return to power for a second consecutive term.Local BJP leaders say that as the project was envisioned by Prime Minister Narendra Modi and driven to completion by chief minister Yogi Adityanath, it will be a showpiece of the party’s poll campaign, especially in eastern Uttar Pradesh that sends 120lawmakers to the state’s assembly, out of a total of 403 seats.“This is matter of faith for us. Prime Minister Narendra Modi has added to the glory of sanatan dharma by getting the corridor constructed,” said BJP leader Somnath Vishwakarma.Moreover, as the temple complex attracts seven million tourists and devotees from across the country, the corridor is a key developmental project that is likely to rake up revenues, said officials.It has also fanned the party’s popularity among the Hindu religious communities and holy men. “The corridor has transformed the entire landscape of the area around the Kashi Vishwanath Temple. It is a direct link between the Baba Kashi Vishwanath Temple and River Ganga,” said Pandit Prasad Dikshit, a trustee of the Kashi Vishwanath Mandir Nyas, which oversees the temple’s functioning.Congress leader Shailendra Singh, however, criticised the project and said the Kashi Vishwanath Temple had been commercialised in the name of the corridor.“The corridor will give a political mileage to the BJP in the coming election, as the ruling party has started to showcase it already,” said Kaushal Kishore Mishra, a professor at the Banaras Hindu University.
12-12-2021||India||Beyond the News: Akali Dal turning 100 in lead-up to toughest fight||On December 14, the Shiromani Akali Dal (SAD) will join the country’s select club of centenarian political parties, after the Indian National Congress, founded in 1885, and the undivided Communist Party of India (CPI) which, inspired by the 1917 Russian revolution, took shape in Tashkent a couple of months ahead of the SAD in 1920.If the Congress was the product of the freedom struggle, the Akali Dal rose from a parallel movement for the liberation of gurdwaras which, till then, were controlled individually by priests (mahants). The Sikh Gurdwara Act, 1925, the British were forced to bring defined the Sikh identity, placing their shrines under the Shiromani Gurdwara Prabandhak Committee (SGPC).Jawaharlal Nehru was arrested during the Jaito Gurdwara Morcha near Faridkot. Mahatma Gandhi hailed the handing over of the keys to the Golden Temple to the movement’s leader, Baba Kharag Singh, as India’s first victory in the country’s struggle for freedom from the British.A prominent Delhi road is now named after Kharag Singh. He simultaneously served as president of the Akali Dal and leader of the Punjab Congress. In fact, the Congress-SAD dual membership was common practice till the 1942 Quit India Movement, when Kharag Singh’s successor, Master Tara Singh, whose was the last word in Sikh politics from 1930-65, defied the Congress to support recruitment of Sikhs in the British army in World War II.Among the many Akali leaders Tara Singh groomed for national roles represented the Congress-SAD overlap. They included India’s first defence minister, Baldev Singh, former external affairs minister Sardar Swaran Singh, and Sardar Hukam Singh, the third Speaker of the Lok Sabha. As former Rajya Sabha MP Tarlochan Singh told the House in a debate some years ago: “The whole of Punjab would’ve gone to Pakistan had Tara Singh not spurned Jinnah’s quid pro quo of a Sikh state in Pakistan at the time of the partition.” History’s witness also that the first non-Congress government after Independence was of the SAD’s Gian Singh Rarewala, who administered (as designated prime minister) the erstwhile PEPSU (Patiala and East Punjab States Union) from 1948-51, much before the rise of the then CPI leader EMS Namboodiripad as chief minister of Kerala in 1957.Like Namboodiripad, the government of Rarewala too was dismissed by the Centre. That marked the beginning of the SAD-Congress rivalry that continues till date, accentuated along the way by the events of 1980s and the earlier Punjabi Suba movement that led to the linguistic reorganisation (of the Indian east Punjab) into Punjab and Haryana. The CPI’s 1964 split, in the aftermath of the 1962 India-China war and the divisions in the global communist movement, saw Namboodiripad becoming the face of the breakaway CPI (Marxist).By some quirk of fate, these parties with a glorious past seem confronted today by an unexceptional future. There’d be a lot to introspect when the battle bruised Akali leadership assembles for a show of strength at Moga, near Ludhiana, on its founding day.For decades the foremost regional party of Punjab, the SAD is facing a crisis akin to what’s dogging the Congress. If the latter fell short of numbers in two successive general elections to be recognised as the official opposition in the Lok Sabha, the Akali Dal was a poor third in the 2017 assembly polls, trailing the victorious Congress and the fledgling Aam Aadmi Party (AAP), which became the principal opposition. The SAD’s downfall came after a decade of uninterrupted rule, a la the Congress in Delhi.Like the Congress where the Gandhi family exercises unbridled control, the Akalis were done in by charges of nepotism and perpetration of family rule by Parkash Singh Badal, the state’s tallest leader since the 1970s whom Prime Minister Narendra Modi once called the Nelson Mandela of Punjab. As five-time chief minister and the party numero uno, he favoured his son Sukhbir Badal, who now is the SAD chief, to the annoyance of many old-timers locally called the Taksalis. A few among them like former union minister S S Dhindsa and R S Brahmpura, a former MP, have since formed their own breakaway Akali Dal (Samyukta). Together with Amarinder Singh, the chief minister-turned-Congress rebel, they’re slated to enter the poll fray in alliance with the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) to set up a four-cornered contest in the 2022 assembly elections.To be fair, Sukhbir Badal has worked hard to regain the core Akali constituency on parting company with the BJP over the three farm laws since withdrawn by the Modi regime. To expand his party’s appeal, he has a pre-poll alliance with Mayawati’s Bahujan Samaj Party, whose precursor, DS-4 (Dalit Shoshit Samaj Sangarsh Samiti) had its origins in Punjab on Kanshi Ram’s watch in 1971. While the upcoming polls are for the AAP an opportunity, they’re an acid test for Sukhbir Badal and the Congress, now led by the state’s first Dalit chief minister, Charanjit Singh Channi. Much will depend on how the BJP-led formation that’s in-the-making with an eye on the Hindu vote, fares in its first outing.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/beyond-the-news-akali-dal-turning-100-in-lead-up-to-toughest-fight-101639333326669.html
12-12-2021||India||Kashi Vishwanath Corridor: Sacred site gets a mega facelift||Prime Minister Narendra Modi will on Monday inaugurate the ₹700 crore Kashi Vishwanath Corridor, which aims to transform the area around the centuries-old temple in Varanasi with state-of-the-art buildings and provide a clear access to the Ganga.The mega facelift project built across 550,000 sq. ft comprises 24 buildings that include an emporium, a museum, a sacred kitchen, a Vedic library, a centre to store ancient scriptures, a city gallery, and a food court – all built around the temple that serves as one of the nerve centres of the Hindu faith, attracting seven million pilgrims annually.The showpiece of the project is restoration of the link between the Ganga and the temple, an ancient connection that had been cut off by years of encroachment, construction and population, said officials responsible for the corridor and its architects. Once open, the corridor will enable a pilgrim to take a boat from any of Varanasi’s numerous ghats to the sprawling new entrance to the temple complex built at the confluence of the Lalita Ghat and Jalasen Ghat.The project’s architect, Bimal Patel, said Modi wanted the corridor to enable devotees to walk directly to the temple after collecting water from the Ganga.“The corridor should be a link between the Ganga and the temple. We worked to restore the grandeur of the temple premises as per the vision of PM Modi,” said Patel.On Monday, Modi is expected to reach the gate of the corridor facing the Ganga by boat, said officials with knowledge of the matter. At the gate, he will collect water from Ganga, and walk to the temple, situated on one end of the 500 metre-long corridor. On his way, he will pass the state-of-the-art facilities, walls with Sanskrit shlokas inscribed on them, overhanging eaves, and a gallery storing scriptures.“The original structure of the Kashi Vishwanath temple has not been tampered with; it has been allowed to remain as it is. The corridor has increased the facilities for the tourists and beautified the temple premises,” said Patel.YEARS IN THE MAKINGWork on the facelift began in December 2019, but the idea germinated shortly after Modi swept to power in 2014, said Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) leaders and people in the know of developments, requesting anonymity.The next year, authorities ordered a survey to map out how the congested area could be given a facelift, said the people. In 2018, Uttar Pradesh chief minister Yogi Adityanath constituted the Shri Kashi Vishwanath Special Area Development Board (SKVSADB), which purchased around 300 buildings in the vicinity of the temple, and demolished them to create space for the corridor.At the time, some residents protested the construction work in what they thought was a holy space. They said, along with some leaders from opposition parties, that the redevelopment project will erase the area’s antiquity, raze temples and unnecessarily commercialise the area. Some tenants of buildings in the area even approached the Allahabad high court, but in 2019, the Supreme Court dismissed their petition. The SKVSADB later called the allegations baseless and assured that all temples found in the area were preserved.Modi laid the foundation of the corridor on March 8, 2019. In December 2019, Gujarat-based PSP Projectswas awarded the contract. Adityanath monitored the progress of the project, and inspected the corridor around 50 times in the past two years, said an official, who requested anonymity. The pandemic forced the work to halt twice in 2020 and 2021, but a fleet of 1,200 workers, mostly from West Bengal, worked round-the-clock once the second wave of Covid-19 abated.“There are 24 buildings in the corridor. All buildings have been constructed and beautified. These are being decorated with special lights for the programme,” said SKVSADB chief executive officer Sunil Verma. A special sky beam light system has been installed in the corridor, to be visible from around 2km away, SKVSADB public relation officer Piyush Tiwari said.MANY CHALLENGESA particular challenge before the architects and officials was manoeuvring the revamp project in an area where thousands of people lived in cheek-by-jowl homes, often jostling with overflowing drains and cows in cramped, centuries-old lanes. Despite the historical significance of the spot, workers found that many buildings were derelict, civic amenities were inadequate and encroachment rampant.Earlier, the temple complex was surrounded by buildings on three sides and there was only one large gate for visitors on the south side of the complex. Now, the adjoining buildings and encroachments have been removed, and seven gates have been built with chunar stones, including a majestic gate opening up to the ghat.“One of these grand gates is at the ghat in order that the devotees may reach Kashi Vishwanath Dham by boat as well,” said Verma.During the construction, workers often found bits and pieces of faith entwined in homes and commercial establishments – small temples or idols installed by unknown people over the decades. Many of these temples were preserved and will be shown in the main gallery of the complex, said officials.“The corridor will give glimpses of the sculptural art and architectural history of temples over 300 years because the 41 temples, which were found among the buildings purchased and demolished, have been preserved,” said Atul Tripathi, head of the history department at Banaras Hindu University.Conversation on revamping the Kashi Vishwanath temple complex began as early as 1916, when Mahatma Gandhi visited the area and expressed anger over the filth strewn on the streets, he said. “Gandhiji wanted the surroundings clean, and entire surroundings to exude spirituality,” Tripathi said. “In a way, Gandhiji’s vision is being realised now.”
12-12-2021||India||Kerala’s first Omicron patient is an UK returnee||Kerala on Sunday reported the first case of the new Covid-19 variant called Omicron, state Health Minister Veena George said. In a Facebook post, the minister said the infected person was a native of the state who had recently returned from the United Kingdom. She said the patient’s condition was stable and there was no need to panic and the government had taken all steps to curb the spread of the new variant. She said the person arrived In Kochi on December 6 via Abu Dhabi and tested positive after two days of his arrival for Covid-19. His samples were rushed to the Rajiv Gandhi Centre for Biotechnology in the state capital. The minister said 149 passengers who travelled in the same flight were alerted about the new development and asked to remain in strict quarantine for two weeks. The minister said his wife and mother also tested positive and results of their samples will be due in a couple of days. “No need for panic but we have to be vigilant and follow Covid-appropriate behaviour strictly,” she said. Struggling with the heavy Covid-19 caseload the state was on high alert after the new variant was detected in the country last month. For more than six months it has been reporting the maximum number of virus cases in the country and as far as death rate is concerned, it is on second spot after Maharashtra. The Union government had sent several letters and reminders to the state to increase tests and streamline containment measures in view of the high number of cases. Kerala reported 38,361 new Covid-19 cases after 57,121 samples were tested, said the health ministry. It also reported 34 deaths taking total fatalities to 42,697.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/keralas-first-omicron-patient-is-an-uk-returnee-101639333083544.html
12-12-2021||India||Modi’s Twitter account ‘briefly compromised’, crypto message posted||Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s Twitter account was briefly hacked early on Sunday after a tweet claiming that India has “officially adopted bitcoin as legal tender” was put out from it. The micro-blogging site, however, said that all necessary steps were taken to secure the compromised handle as soon as it learnt of this activity.At 2.11 am, a tweet from Modi’s handle said: “India has officially adopted bitcoin as legal tender. The government has officially bought 500 BTC and is distributing them to all residents of the country.” While the tweet was brought down a few minutes later, the Prime Minister’s Office (PMO) said the matter was discussed with the micro-blogging platform.“The Twitter handle of PM @narendramodi was very briefly compromised. The matter was escalated to Twitter and the account has been immediately secured. In the brief period that the account was compromised, any Tweet shared must be ignored,” PMO tweeted. Twitter said its probe revealed that “there are no signs of any other impacted accounts at this time”. “We have 24X7 open lines of communication with the PM’s Office and our teams took necessary steps to secure the compromised account as soon as we became aware of this activity. Our investigation has revealed that there are no signs of any other impacted accounts at this time,” Twitter India spokesperson said.Several Opposition leaders expressed concerns over the breach, saying it exposed chinks in the cyber security.Indian Youth Congress president BV Srinivas made a cheeky comment in response to a tweet on the hacking. “Good Morning Modi ji, Sab Changa Si?” he posted on Twitter, while sharing screenshots of the now deleted tweet from Modi’s account. Congress spokesperson Dr Shama Mohamed tweeted, “PM Modi’s Twitter handle was hacked last night. This is a major security breach. If the govt cannot adequately secure the account of the Prime Minister, how is it protecting the biometric aadhar data of crores of Indians which it insisted on collecting!”Last year in September, the Twitter account linked to the Prime Minister’s personal website and mobile app, narendramodi_in, was hacked.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/modis-twitter-account-briefly-compromised-crypto-message-posted-101639332604691.html
12-12-2021||India||In last message, CDS Rawat invoked spirit of 1971 war heroes||In his last message, recorded the evening before his death in a helicopter crash on December 8, late chief of defence staff General Bipin Rawat paid tributes to the heroes of the 1971 India-Pakistan war and invited citizens to take part in the golden jubilee celebrations of the decisive victory against the neighbour, and the liberation of Bangladesh. The 70-second video clip was played on Sunday at the inauguration of the Swarnim Vijay Parv at India Gate by defence minister Rajnath Singh. The three-day event, during December 12-14, will mark the culmination of year-long celebrations organised across the country to commemorate the 50th anniversary of victory in the 1971 war.“I extend my best wishes to all soldiers of the Indian armed forces on the occasion of Swarnim Vijay Parv. I remember the brave men of the armed forces and offer tributes to the sacrifices made by them in the war,” Rawat said in his message. “It is a matter of good fortune that the Vijay Parv is being celebrated under the shade of Amar Jawan Jyoti, which was set up in the memory of our brave men killed in action. We invited all citizens to take part in the celebrations,” he concluded. General Rawat, his wife Madhulika Raje Singh Rawat, the CDS’s defence assistant Brigadier LS Lidder and his staff officer Lt Colonel Harjinder Singh were among the 13 people killed in the Mi-17V5 helicopter crash near Coonoor in Tamil Nadu. Rawat was on a visit to the Defence Services Staff College at Wellington to address the faculty and student officers when the chopper crashed seven minutes from its destination. Inaugurating the Swarnim Vijay Parv, the defence minister said, “In the untimely death of General Rawat, India has lost a brave soldier, an able advisor and a lively person. He was looking forward to taking part in the Swarnim Vijay Parv.” Paying tributes to the soldiers who took part in the war, the minister said the “glorious victory” in 1971 changed the history and geography of South Asia, and the country would remain indebted to the sacrifices made by its warriors. “This festival is a testament to the fact that the memories of 1971 are still fresh in the heart of every Indian. At the same time, it is a symbol of the zeal, passion and valour our forces displayed during the 1971 war. It inspires us to keep moving forward on the path of nation’s progress with the same zeal and passion.” The atrocities committed on the people of then East Pakistan were a threat to entire humanity, and it was India’s responsibility to liberate them, he said, referring to the barbarism carried out by the Pakistan army under Operation Searchlight, a crackdown to crush the voices of self-determination.“Our armed forces supported Mukti Bahini, helped lakhs of refugees and prevented any kind of aggression from western and northern sectors. They ensured that the credibility of India’s commitment towards peace, justice and humanity in the world community is maintained,” the minister said. Singh said the 1971 war as among the most decisive wars in the world after the two World Wars. “This war tells us that the partition of India on the basis of religion was a historic mistake. Pakistan was born in the name of one religion, but it could not remain one. After the defeat in 1971, it is continuously fighting a proxy war…We won in a direct war and the victory will be ours in indirect war as well,” he added. The event came a day after paratroopers of the army carried out a mass jump at a premier base in Agra to mark 50 years of the historic battalion-sized Tangail airdrop north of Dhaka during the 1971 war, a critical operation that set the stage for surrender by the rival army. Central Army commander Lt General Yogendra Dimri led the jump involving 120 elite paratroopers and four veterans who took part in the 1971 war. The army and the air force dedicated the jump to Rawat and the 12 others killed in the helicopter crash.
12-12-2021||India||Coonoor chopper crash: Lt Col Harjinder Singh’s daughter performs last rites||Twelve-year-old Preet Kaur on Sunday performed the last rites of her father Lieutenant Colonel Harjinder Singh, who was chief of defence staff (CDS) General Bipin Rawat’s staff officer and killed along with him and 11 others in a helicopter crash near Coonoor on December 8, at Brar Square in Delhi Cantt in a sombre ceremony attended by defence minister Rajnath Singh, the three service chiefs and several military officials.The 43-year-old officer, called Harry by his friends, was commissioned in the army in September 2001, and had served along India’s borders with China and Pakistan as well as the country’s North-east in his 20-year army career.The defence minister offered condolences to the lieutenant colonel’s family including his wife Major Agnes P Menezes (retd) who had attended the funerals of General Rawat, his wife Madhulika and the CDS’s defence assistant Brigadier LS Lidder at Brar Square two days ago when her own husband’s body was yet to be identified.The bodies of 10 soldiers killed in the Mi-17V5 crash, including that of Lieutenant Colonel Singh, were identified only on Saturday after genetic testing.Rawat was on a visit to the Defence Services Staff College (DSSC) at Wellington to address the faculty and student officers there when the chopper crashed.Major Menezes served the army from 2004 to 2014.Earlier in the day, General Rawat’s daughters Kritika and Tarini visited Lieutenant Colonel Singh’s residence in Delhi Cantt to comfort Agnes and her daughter Preet, in a remarkable display of strong bonding within the armed forces fraternity. Kritika’s husband Ankit Singh accompanied the Rawat sisters, who had immersed the ashes of their parents in Ganga in Haridwar a day earlier, to Lieutenant Colonel Singh’s home.“Paid tributes to Lt Colonel Harjinder Singh, who died in the tragic helicopter crash in Tamil Nadu. His untimely demise is extremely saddening. My deepest condolences to his family and friends. May God give them strength to bear this massive loss,” the defence minister wrote on Twitter.Lieutenant Colonel Singh’s funeral was also attended by Geetika Lidder, the wife of Brigadier Lidder.The last rites of General Rawat and his wife, Brigadier Lidder and Lieutenant Colonel Singh were performed by their daughters, who have shown courage in the darkest hour of their lives.Thirteen people were killed in the Coonoor crash. The only survivor, Group Captain Varun Singh, is battling for his life at the Air Force Command Hospital at Bengaluru.Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Thursday paid his last respects to the crash victims at the Palam air base after their mortal remains arrived from Sulur in a C-130J special operations aircraft of the IAF.The others killed in the crash were Wing Commander Prithvi Singh Chauhan (pilot), Squadron Leader Kuldeep Singh (co-pilot), Junior Warrant Officers Rana Pratap Das and Arakkal Pradeep, Havildar Satpal Rai, Naik Gursewak Singh, Naik Jitendra Kumar, Lance Naik Vivek Kumar and Lance Naik B Sai Teja.The Mi-17V5 helicopter took off from the Sulur air base at 11.48am on December 8, and it was scheduled to land at the helipad at the Wellington golf club at 12.15pm. The air traffic control at Sulur, however, lost contact with the helicopter at 12.08pm, 20 minutes after it took off. The chopper was seven minutes away from its destination.Air Marshal Manavendra Singh, who is the Air Officer Commanding-in-Chief of the IAF’s Bengaluru-based Training Command and the senior-most helicopter pilot in the air force, is heading the inquiry into the crash.
12-12-2021||India||Row over CBSE exam question on women||The reading comprehension section of the Class X first term English test paper of the Central Board of Secondary Education (CBSE) that casts women in a regressive light has come in for heavy criticism from parents and educationists. “What people were slow to observe was that the emancipation of the wife destroyed the parent’s authority over children,” reads part of the passage to test comprehension of students in the examination held on Saturday. “It was only by accepting her husband’s sway that she (wife) could gain obedience from the young,” reads another part of the passage. The passage, divided into three sections, begins by stating, “Some teenagers live in a world of their own,” and goes on to say how they were disciplined a century ago and in the twentieth century. It is followed by eight multiple choice questions. The second question asked if the writer of the passage “seems to be a male chauvinist pig / an arrogant person; takes a light-hearted approach to life; is a disgruntled husband; has his family’s welfare at his heart.” The board is yet to release the answer key. “It is a passage so offensive to women that I really don’t know how any committee could allow this to be published in a CBSE exam paper,” said Chandra Viswanathan of the English Learning Foundation. “But the worst is the way the passage destroys all the small steps that women have made in the last few decades to ensure a more equal place in family, society and workplace.”“It is unthinkable why CBSE, which certifies and runs schools all over the country and publishes textbooks that are in every child’s schoolbag, would publish a passage as derogatory to women as this in a Class X exam paper,” Viswanathan said. What she found most disturbing was that school principals and teachers have not objected to this. “Only a few children and parents found it troubling,” Viswanathan said. A parent of one of the students who appeared for the exam described the passage as “ridiculous and rubbish”. “My daughter and her classmates seemed disturbed. They haven’t got any reaction from teachers but its feel nice to see that some children understand that this is wrong. I was infuriated when I read the passage. They are trying to reinforce rudimentary ideas,” the parent said, seeking anonymity.Everyone must protest against “such nonsense” being thrust into young minds, Balaji Sampath, founder of Chennai-based education NGO Aid India, said in a social media post. “CBSE and education boards are supposed to promote progressive ideals and help children visualise a better world,” he said. “But through this passage CBSE is teaching students that in a perfect world wives must obey their husbands.”K Srinivasan, CBSE’s regional officer in Chennai, did not respond to HT’s phone calls and text messages.A Delhi CBSE spokesperson said the “matter will be referred to subject experts for considered views as per the preset procedures of the board”.“As regards the correct answer option and the answer key released by the board, it is clarified that if the experts opine that the passage elicits multiple interpretations, appropriate action will be taken to protect the interest of the students,” the spokesperson said. The Congress party in Tamil Nadu reacted strongly to the issue. “What are we teaching our children? CBSE has to give an explanation and tender an apology for inflicting our children with this,” Congress spokesperson Lakshmi Ramachandran said.The exam paper was a “misogynistic patriarchal claptrap propagated by this regressive” Bharatiya Janata Party regime, Congress parliamentarian Karti Chidambaram said on Twitter. “Will be raising this in Parliament,” he tweeted.The Bharatiya Janata Party did not react to the case. 
12-12-2021||India||NCP legislator Churchill Alemao to join TMC during Mamata’s Goa visit||Goa’s lone Nationalist Congress Party MLA Churchill Alemao will join the Trinamool Congress on Monday in the presence of TMC chief and West Bengal chief minister Mamata Banerjee during her two-day visit to Goa. The veteran politician, who spent a brief term of 18 days as Goa’s chief minister back in 1990, and who is the owner of Churchill Brothers Football Club has a chequered political career in which he was one of the founding members of the now nearly defunct United Goans Democratic Party. He joined the Congress, founded the now defunct Save Goa Party, besides also having a stint in the Nationalist Congress Party. Alemao is also a co-accused in the Louis Berger bribery case along with Digambar Kamat of the Congress under whose tenure as chief minister Alemao was the minister of Public Works between 2007 and 2012. He spent a month in jail before he was granted bail. This will be Alemao’s second entry into the TMC having earlier contested the 2014 Parliamentary elections as a TMC candidate from the South Goa parliamentary seat. Alemao had earlier called on Banerjee in Kolkata late last month and upon his return to Goa said that he respected Banerjee for what she was doing and would take a decision on his future plans in two weeks. His two week deadline coincided with Banerjee’s planned visit to the state. West Bengal Chief Minister Mamata Banerjee will hold a series of meetings in Goa on Monday and Tuesday including three public meetings over the next two days.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/ncp-legislator-churchill-alemao-to-join-tmc-during-mamata-s-goa-visit-101639329603764.html
12-12-2021||India||PFI dabbles in real estate in a big way, owns bar in middle-east, says ED||The Enforcement Directorate (ED) which raided the houses and offices of many Popular Front of India (PFI) leaders in Kerala on December 8 said some of the leaders run a bar cum hotel in Abu Dhabi and they were into the real estate business in a big way in the state and abroad to fund their activities. The ED had raided many premises across the state and claimed that it seized several incriminating documents. In a statement the central agency said seized documents show some of its leaders were into real estate business in Kerala and abroad and they own a bar and hotel in Abu Dhabi. It said it suspected that some of the NGOs controlled by the outfit like ‘Rehab India Foundation’ were used for money-laundering activities. It said at some places PFI workers resisted the raid fiercely and the agency was forced to take the help of the Central Reserve Police Force to complete the raid. The agency said some of the seized documents clearly showed that its leaders were into real estate business to fund their activities. Searches were conducted at the residential premises of PFI leader Shafeeq Payath in Kannur, B P Abdul Razak in Malappuram, M K Ashraf in Muvattupuzha and offices of a villa project Munnar Villa Vista Project in Idukki. The agency said a detailed investigation is underway. The PFI, however, denied all charges raised by the ED and said it was a move aimed at discrediting community members and single them out on the provocation of Sangh Parivar outfits. “With assembly elections round the corner in Uttar Pradesh right-wing outifts are targeting minority organizations and institutions for polarization. In some of the houses only women were there and there was not a single woman in the raiding team. The PFI can’t be browbeaten like this,” said its secretary Anees Ahammad.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/pfi-dabbles-in-real-estate-in-a-big-way-owns-bar-in-middle-east-says-ed-101639326603482.html
12-12-2021||India||‘Like Vatican, Mecca’: VHP says Ram Temple would become symbol of Hindutva||The Ram Janmabhoomi teerth kshetra in Ayodhya will emerge as a symbol of Hindutva, Vishwa Hindu Parishad president Rabindra Narain Singh said on Sunday. The Ram temple in Ayodhya is being developed on the lines of the Vatican City and Mecca so that it could become a symbol of the religion. “It would become a symbol of Hindutva,” he said. The construction of the temple is going on in a full swing as the target is to open the temple for the public by the end of 2023 though the entire complex will be ready only by 2025. By 2023 end, the ground floor of the temple is likely to be completed. The sanctum sanctorum of the temple will be on the ground floor. Patna's Mahavir Mandir has donated ₹2 crore for Ram mandir Trust on Saturday, which was the second instalment of the donation.The first phase of the construction of the foundation of the temple was completed in September. The second later will be made up of Karnataka's granite and Mirzapur's sandstone.In Rajasthan, work is going on to prepare stone slabs from Rajasthan's Bansi Paharpur. One lakh cubic feet of carved slabs are ready for the construction of the Ram temple.Inside the premises, six temples dedicated to Lord Surya, Lord Ganesha, Lord Shiva, Lord Durga, Lord Vishnu and Lord Brahma will be constructed. From the end of October, construction of the base of the superstructure started and in November, work for the filling of the foundation began.The sanctum sanctorum of the temple will be made in a way so that every Ram Navami, sun rays fall inside. The design will be inspired by Konark's Sun Temple, reports said.The temple will display the bricks which were donated between 1987 and 1989, during the Ram Mandir movement. Bricks will not be used in the construction as they are not durable.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/like-vatican-mecca-vhp-says-ram-temple-would-become-symbol-of-hindutva-101639321737075.html
12-12-2021||India||12-year-old daughter performs last rites of CDS’s staff officer Lt Col Harjinder Singh||Twelve-year-old Preet Kaur on Sunday performed the last rites of her father Lieutenant Colonel Harjinder Singh, who was chief of defence staff (CDS) General Bipin Rawat’s staff officer and killed along with him and 11 others in a helicopter crash near Coonoor on December 8, at Brar Square in Delhi Cantt in a sombre ceremony attended by defence minister Rajnath Singh, the three service chiefs and several military officials. The 43-year-old officer, called Harry by his friends, was commissioned in the army in September 2001, and had served along India’s borders with China and Pakistan as well as the country’s North-east in his 20-year army career. The defence minister offered condolences to the lieutenant colonel’s family including his wife Major Agnes P Menezes (retd) who had attended the funerals of General Rawat, his wife Madhulika and the CDS’s defence assistant Brigadier LS Lidder at Brar Square two days ago when her own husband’s body was yet to be identified. The bodies of 10 soldiers killed in the Mi-17V5 crash, including that of Lieutenant Colonel Singh, were identified only on Saturday after genetic testing. Rawat was on a visit to the Defence Services Staff College (DSSC) at Wellington to address the faculty and student officers there when the chopper crashed. Major Menezes served the army from 2004 to 2014. Earlier in the day, General Rawat’s daughters Kritika and Tarini set their own grief aside and visited Lieutenant Colonel Singh’s residence in Delhi Cantt to comfort Agnes and her daughter Preet, in a remarkable display of strong bonding within the armed forces fraternity. Kritika’s husband Ankit Singh accompanied the Rawat sisters, who had immersed the ashes of their parents in Ganga in Haridwar a day earlier, to Lieutenant Colonel Singh’s home. “Paid tributes to Lt Colonel Harjinder Singh, who died in the tragic helicopter crash in Tamil Nadu. His untimely demise is extremely saddening. My deepest condolences to his family and friends. May God give them strength to bear this massive loss,” the defence minister wrote on Twitter. Lieutenant Colonel Singh’s funeral was also attended by Geetika Lidder, the wife of Brigadier Lidder. The last rites of General Rawat and his wife, Brigadier Lidder and Lieutenant Colonel Singh were performed by their daughters, who have shown uncommon courage in the darkest hour of their lives. Thirteen people were killed in the Coonoor crash. The only survivor, Group Captain Varun Singh, is battling for his life at the Air Force Command Hospital at Bengaluru. Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Thursday paid his last respects to the crash victims at the Palam air base after their mortal remains arrived from Sulur in a C-130J special operations aircraft of the IAF. The others killed in the crash were Wing Commander Prithvi Singh Chauhan (pilot), Squadron Leader Kuldeep Singh (co-pilot), Junior Warrant Officers Rana Pratap Das and Arakkal Pradeep, Havildar Satpal Rai, Naik Gursewak Singh, Naik Jitendra Kumar, Lance Naik Vivek Kumar and Lance Naik B Sai Teja. The Mi-17V5 helicopter took off from the Sulur air base at 11.48 am on December 8, and it was scheduled to land at the helipad at the Wellington golf club at 12.15 pm. The air traffic control at Sulur, however, lost contact with the helicopter at 12.08 pm, 20 minutes after it took off. The chopper was seven minutes away from its destination. Air Marshal Manavendra Singh, who is the Air Officer Commanding-in-Chief of the IAF’s Bengaluru-based Training Command and the senior-most helicopter pilot in the air force, is heading the inquiry into the crash.
12-12-2021||India||India may host leaders of 5 Central Asian states as chief guests for Republic Day 2022||India is looking at the possibility of having the leaders of the five Central Asian states as the chief guests at next year’s Republic Day against the backdrop of the country’s focus on the strategic region for connectivity, trade and security. The move to send invitations to the heads of state of Kazakhstan, Kyrgyzstan, Tajikistan, Turkmenistan and Uzbekistan also fits in with the Indian government’s focus on multipolarity and rebalancing, people familiar with the development said on condition of anonymity. However, the matter is yet to be finalised as responses were awaited from all the Central Asian states, said two people, including a diplomat from a Central Asian state. The chief guest for Republic Day celebrations is chosen in keeping with India’s strategic, diplomatic and economic interests, as well as New Delhi’s relations with the concerned country. Ties with the Central Asian states have been on the upswing in recent years following the government’s focus on the region. If the move goes ahead, it will be only the second time that the heads of state of a bloc or group of countries have been invited to the Republic Day celebrations. In 2018, the heads of the 10 countries in the Association of Southeast Asian Nations (Asean) were the chief guests at the annual event. In 2009, the Kazakhstan president was the chief guest at the Republic Day. The foreign ministers of the five Central Asian states are set to hold a meeting with their Indian counterpart S Jaishankar in New Delhi during December 18-19, the people cited above said. This will be the third such meeting of the foreign ministers since 2019 and India has offered a $1-billion line of credit to the five Central Asian states for projects in connectivity, energy, IT, agriculture, healthcare and education. The importance of the Central Asian states in the context of regional security has increased following the Taliban takeover of Afghanistan in mid-August. Top security officials of all five Central Asian states, Iran and Russia had attended a regional security dialogue on Afghanistan that was hosted by India on November 10. The Delhi Declaration of Afghanistan, issued after the meeting, said all eight countries were committed to combat terrorism to ensure that Afghanistan would never become a safe haven for global terrorism. All the countries had also called for the formation of a truly inclusive government in Kabul. Uzbekistan is crucial for India’s plans to boost connectivity with Central Asia as it is part of a trilateral working group on the joint use of Chabahar port along with Iran. 
12-12-2021||India||News updates from HT: Taliban praise India for sending medicines for Afghan kids, and all the latest news||Here are today’s top news, analysis and opinion. Know all about the latest news and other news updates from Hindustan Times.India’s move to send medicines for Afghan kids draws praise from TalibanIndia’s move to send 1.6 tonnes of life-saving medicines to Afghanistan has drawn praise from the Taliban at a time when Pakistan continues to create hurdles in the shipment of wheat offered by the Indian side via the Wagah land border crossing. Read more…Mobile phone of man, who captured video of General Rawat's chopper, sent for forensic testsCoimbatore police have sent the mobile phone of a man for forensic analysis that captured the last moments of the Indian Air Force (IAF) helicopter before it crashed in Tamil Nadu's Nilgiris district on Wednesday, leading to the demise of 13 out of 14 people on board, including the nation's first and sitting Chief of Defence Staff (CDS) General Bipin Rawat, and his spouse Madhulika Rawat. Read more…Modi in Varanasi: Itinerary of PM's 2-day visit to his parliamentary constituencyPrime Minister Narendra Modi will arrive in his parliamentary constituency Varanasi for a 2-day visit, on Monday. The highlight of his visit to the temple town in poll-bound Uttar Pradesh will be the inauguration of the Kashi Vishwanath Corridor, scheduled for December 13. Read more…'Party has given its elders...': What Rahul Gandhi said about Amarinder Singh, Ghulam Nabi AzadCongress leader Rahul Gandhi told Shiv Sena MP Sanjay Raut that the Congress has given a lot to its elders, Raut has claimed in his weekly column Rokhthok in party mouthpiece Saamana. Rahul Gandhi specifically talked about Amarinder Singh, former Punjab chief minister who has now exited the party and Ghulam Nabi Azad, a rebel Congress leader of the G-23 grouping. Read more…Aarya 2: Sushmita Sen finally breaks bad, but takes 7 long, boring episodes to get thereRam Madhvani's second release in two months, Aarya's season two tests your patience in more ways than one. From the shoddy performances by the supporting cast to conveniently changing moralities, a lot of things weigh down this crime drama. Read more…Max Verstappen wins maiden F1 World Drivers' Championship, finishes P1 in Abu Dhabi to beat Lewis HamiltonRed Bull's Max Verstappen seals his maiden F1 title by beating title rival Lewis Hamilton of Mercedes in a last-lap thriller at the season-ending Abu Dhabi GP on Sunday. Mercedes bagged another World Constructor's Championship title but were denied the double they would have wanted. Read more…||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/news-updates-from-ht-taliban-praise-india-for-sending-medicines-for-afghan-kids-and-all-the-latest-news-101639321155106.html
12-12-2021||India||'Party has given its elders...': What Rahul Gandhi said about Amarinder Singh, Ghulam Nabi Azad||Congress leader Rahul Gandhi told Shiv Sena MP Sanjay Raut that the Congress has given a lot to its elders, Raut has claimed in his weekly column Rokhthok in party mouthpiece Saamana. Rahul Gandhi specifically talked about Amarinder Singh, former Punjab chief minister who has now exited the party and Ghulam Nabi Azad, a rebel Congress leader of the G-23 grouping.Amarinder Singh was asked to perform and was never disrespected, Rahul has purportedly told Sanjay Raut. Congress would have been finished in Punjab, had the party not acted tough. “He was the chief minister of Punjab, and under his leadership, Congress’ graph dropped. We conducted a poll, and only 6% of people were in favour of the chief minister. Those who were not in the race for the chief ministership got more responses than him. He (Singh) was asked to fulfil the promises made to the people ahead of the election, but his response was cold," Rahul Gandhi told Raut, according to the Sena MP.Amarinder Singh has floated his own party, Punjab Lok Congress, which will contest the assembly elections in 2022 against the Congress either alone or in alliance with the BJP. After resigning from the CM's post, Amarinder Singh quit the party as he said he was humiliated by the Congress.On Ghulam Nabi Azad, a G-23 leader, Rahul Gandhi said he never disrespected him. After his Rajya Sabha term ended, the party asked Azad to head the party's J&K unit but he refused that saying that the party is non-existent there. "He can become the chief minister again after elections. But, he refused saying the Congress didn't exist there. Azad ji has been the chief minister there and he thinks the Congress doesn't exist there," Rahul Gandhi told Raut.Raut was in New Delhi recently and met both Rahul and Priyanka Gandhi. Shiv Sena and the Congress are in alliance in the Maha Vikas Aghadi government.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/party-has-given-its-elders-what-rahul-gandhi-said-about-amarinder-singh-ghulam-nabi-azad-101639321068200.html
12-12-2021||India||Modi in Varanasi: Itinerary of PM's 2-day visit to his parliamentary constituency||Prime Minister Narendra Modi will arrive in his parliamentary constituency Varanasi for a 2-day visit, on Monday. The highlight of his visit to the temple town in poll-bound Uttar Pradesh will be the inauguration of the Kashi Vishwanath Corridor, scheduled for December 13.Also Read | PM Modi to inaugurate Kashi Vishwanath Corridor tomorrow. Here’s how it looks“Tomorrow, 13th December is a landmark day. At a special programme in Kashi, the Shri Kashi Vishwanath Dham project will be inaugurated. This will add to Kashi's spiritual vibrancy. I would urge you all to join tomorrow's programme,” the Prime Minister tweeted on Sunday.Tomorrow, 13th December is a landmark day. At a special programme in Kashi, the Shri Kashi Vishwanath Dham project will be inaugurated. This will add to Kashi's spiritual vibrancy. I would urge you all to join tomorrow's programme. https://t.co/DvTrEKfSzk pic.twitter.com/p2zGMZNv2UAccording to the Prime Minister's Office (PMO), PM Modi will, at 12 noon on day 1 of his trip, visit the popular Kaal Bhairav Temple. Then, around an hour later, he will be at the Kashi Vishwanath Temple, and inaugurate phase 1 of the Kashi Vishwanath Dham, constructed at a cost of around 339 crore, the PMO noted in a statement.A total of 23 buildings are in the phase 1 of the project, the statement further said.In his final engagement for the day, PM Modi will, at 6pm, witness Ganga Aarti while on board a 'Ro-Ro vessel,' his office said.At 3:30pm on December 14, the second and final day, the Prime Minister will attend the 98th anniversary celebrations of the Sadguru Sadafaldeo Vihangam Yog Sansthan at the Swarved Mahamandir in the city. During the 2-day visit, he will also participate in a conclave of chief ministers from Assam, Arunachal Pradesh, Goa, Gujarat, Haryana, Himachal Pradesh, Karnataka, Madhya Pradesh, Manipur, Tripura, Uttar Pradesh and Uttarakhand. The deputy chief ministers of Bihar and Nagaland will also attend the conference.Among these, except Bihar and Nagaland, all have chief ministers from PM Modi's Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP), while in the remaining two, the BJP is a member of the ruling coalition.Goa, Manipur, Uttar Pradesh and Uttarakhand are all likely to witness assembly polls early next year.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/modi-in-varanasi-itinerary-of-pm-s-2-day-visit-to-city-101639318949237.html
12-12-2021||India||BJP leader welcomes Saudi Arabia's 'gates of terrorism' order on Tablighi Jamaat||Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) leader Mangal Pandey on Sunday welcomed Saudi Arabia’s decision to ban Tablighi Jamaat, which the Arab nation called a "danger to society" and "one of the gates of terrorism". The former Bihar BJP chief, currently serving as health minister in the state government, said there’s a need to break all organisations related to terrorism for “world peace”.“We've seen proof of Pakistan's involvement in guarding and promoting terrorism. For world peace, we've to break all the organizations related to terrorism. So we'll welcome if any country tries to eliminate it,” news agency ANI quoted Pandey as saying.Saudi Arabia’s minister of Islamic affairs directed mosques to warn Muslims during the next Friday sermon against associating with members of Tablighi Jamaat. The minister has also directed that the mosques should include a declaration of the "misguidance, deviation and danger of this group" and note that it is one of the "gates of terrorism, even if they claim otherwise," reported news agency ANI."His Excellency the Minister of Islamic Affairs, Dr.#Abdullatif Al_Alsheikh directed the mosques' preachers and the mosques that held Friday prayer temporary to allocate the next Friday sermon 5/6/1443 H to warn against (the Tablighi and Da'wah group) which is called (Al Ahbab)," tweeted Saudi Arabia's Ministry of Islamic Affairs.The Saudi government has also directed the mosques to mention the "most prominent mistakes" of the group and highlight that they are a “danger to society”, according to ANI. As per the report, they have also been asked to issue a statement that "affiliation with partisan groups, including (the Tablighi and Da'wah Group) is prohibited in the Kingdom of Saudi Arabia."Tablighi Jamaat is a transnational Sunni Islamic missionary movement that focuses on encouraging Muslims to follow the pure form of Sunni Islam.(With agency inputs)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/bjp-leader-welcomes-saudi-arabia-s-gates-of-terrorism-order-on-tablighi-jamaat-101639318678335.html
12-12-2021||India||India’s move to send medicines for Afghan kids draws praise from Taliban||India’s move to send 1.6 tonnes of life-saving medicines to Afghanistan has drawn praise from the Taliban at a time when Pakistan continues to create hurdles in the shipment of wheat offered by the Indian side via the Wagah land border crossing.A special charter flight that brought 104 people, most of them Afghan Sikhs and Hindus, from Kabul to New Delhi on Friday carried back medicines meant for the Indira Gandhi Institute of Child Health in Kabul. The main children’s hospital in the Afghan capital is grappling with a growing number of children affected by malnutrition.“These medicines will be handed over to the representatives of the World Health Organization (WHO) in Kabul and will be administered at the Indira Gandhi Children’s Hospital, Kabul,” the external affairs ministry said.Taliban deputy spokesperson Ahmadullah Wasiq tweeted in Pashto that important medical equipment would also be brought in from India and made available to hospitals. In another tweet, he added: “India is a leading country in the region. Afghanistan-India relations are very vital.”Abdul Kahar Balkhi, the spokesperson of the Taliban’s foreign ministry, said on Twitter: “We appreciate the arrival of...Indian-assisted medicine to Indira Gandhi Children’s Hospital in Kabul.” He added the charter flight operated by Kam Air had brought back 85 Afghan nationals who were stuck in India and this “travel process will continue”.Afghan ambassador Farid Mamundzay said the “life-saving medicines will help many families in this difficult time”.The consignment of medicines was the first tranche of humanitarian aid provided by India since the takeover of Kabul by the Taliban. The Indian side does not recognise the Taliban regime but has repeatedly said it will provide aid to the Afghan people against the backdrop of a looming humanitarian crisis.India’s offer to provide 50,000 tonnes of wheat to Afghanistan via Pakistani land routes, however, has been hamstrung by conditions attached to the move by Islamabad, people familiar with the matter said on condition of anonymity. On December 3, Pakistan said it would allow wheat and medicines to be shipped via the Wagah land border crossing in Afghan trucks.However, Pakistan also told the Indian side that the entire consignment of wheat should be transported within December, the people said. The wheat is to be carried from Wagah by trucks that bring Afghan products to the Indian side. The people said only 30 to 40 Afghan trucks made the daily trip to Wagah and it was unlikely that 50,000 tonnes of wheat could be sent via the land route by the end of this month.Pakistan has allowed the wheat to be transported from Wagah to Torkham, a key border crossing between Khyber-Pakhtunkhwa province and Afghanistan’s Nangarhar province, where the aid would be handed over to the World Food Programme (WFP), the food assistance branch of the UN, since the Indian side doesn’t recognise the Taliban regime.Even the Taliban leadership, facing severe problems due to food shortages, has pushed the Pakistan government for the speedy shipment of the wheat. The Taliban’s acting foreign minister, Amir Khan Muttaqi, raised the delay in the shipping of the wheat with an intermediary as recently as December 7.India made the proposal for shipping the wheat and medicines via Pakistani soil on October 7, and received a response from the Pakistan government only on November 24.
12-12-2021||India||‘Attack me, I am not afraid’, says Rahul Gandhi on speech in Jaipur about Hindu, Hindutva||Following his remarks earlier in the day about Hindu and Hindutva, Congress leader Rahul Gandhi stood by his statements and said that he was not scared. “Hindutvawadis will attack me after hearing this. Do it, I'm not afraid!” Gandhi tweeted along with a video clip of his speech during a rally in Rajasthan’s Jaipur against inflation on Sunday.हिंदुत्ववादी ये सुनकर मुझपर वार करेंगे।कर लो, मैं नहीं डरता!#NoFear pic.twitter.com/OYK50KTFRQ“In the country’s politics today, there is a competition between two words. One word is ‘Hindu’, the second word is ‘Hindutvawadi’. They are not the same. They are two separate words. And their meanings are also different,” he had said during the rally. “I am a Hindu but I am not a Hindutvawadi,” he added.“Mahatma Gandhi - Hindu, (Nathuram) Godse - Hindutvawadi. A Hindu seeks the truth. A Hindu searches for truth, his path is Satyagraha, he spends his whole life in search of truth. Mahatma Gandhi spent his whole life understanding the truth. And finally a Hindutvawadi shot him 3 times in the chest,” he further said.Also read | Owaisi slams Rahul's ‘bring back Hindus’ speech; says, ‘secular agenda in 2021’Further, Gandhi also said that a ‘Hindutvawadi’ spends his life in search of power and had nothing to do with truth. “He only wants power, he will do anything for it, say anything for it. His path is ‘sattagraha’ (power grabbing) not satyagraha,” he added.Reacting to the comments, the Vishva Hindu Parishad said that the Congress leader does not understand Hindu or Hindutva.“Rahul Gandhi is one of the most delusional leaders of Indian politics. Neither he understands Hindu nor Hindutva. He mentioned Mahatma Gandhi but seemingly hasn't read him. Gandhi Ji said Swarajya means Ram Rajya,” news agency ANI quoted VHP’s Surendra Jain as saying.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/attack-me-i-am-not-afraid-says-rahul-gandhi-on-speech-in-jaipur-about-hindu-hindutva-101639317628789.html
12-12-2021||India||Mobile phone of man, who made video of General Rawat's chopper, sent for forensic tests||Police in Tamil Nadu's Coimbatore have collected and sent for forensic analysis the mobile phone of a man who captured a video which apparently shows the Indian Air Force (IAF) helicopter, which crashed in the state's Nilgiris district on Wednesday, leading to the demise of 13 out of 14 people on board, including the nation's first and sitting Chief of Defence Staff (CDS) General Bipin Rawat, and his spouse Madhulika Rawat. Also Read | 'A loud sound and the copter disappeared in fog': Man who took last video of Gen Rawat's chopperThe phone was collected as a part of a probe in the case, the police said. The device's owner, Joe, who is a Coimbatore-based wedding photographer, had gone to Katteri area in the Nilgiris district with a group of friends on December 8, and, 'out of curiosity,' made the video of the ill-fated chopper, said to be from mere moments before the crash.Additionally, the police are also probing why Joe and his friends went to the dense forest region, which, they said, is a prohibited area due to the frequent movement of wild animals.In the footage, the IAF Mi-17V5 is seen disappearing into a fog. After the clip went viral on social media, the force put out a statement, urging everyone to 'avoid uninformed speculation to respect the dignity of the deceased.'Also Read | IAF says uninformed speculation on chopper crash may be avoided, tri-service inquiry underwayThe IAF has constituted a tri-service Court of Inquiry (CoI) to probe the crash, which took place when the defence chief was on his way to the Wellington-based Defence Services Staff College (DSSC) where he was to deliver a lecture. Besides General Rawat and his wife, those who lost their lives were: Brigadier LS Lidder, Lieutenant Colonel Harjinder Singh, Wing Commander Prithvi Singh Chauhan (pilot), Squadron Leader Kuldeep Singh (co-pilot), Junior Warrant Officer (JWO) Rana Pratap Das, JWO Arakkal Pradeep, Lance Naik Vivek Kumar, Lance Naik B Sai Teja, Havildar Satpal Rai, Naik Gursewak Singh and Naik Jitendra Kumar.Also Read | In last message, General Rawat paid tribute to 1971 war heroesThe lone survivor, Group Captain Varun Singh, is hospitalised in a Bengaluru-based military hospital. The officer's condition is reported to be ‘critical.’(With PTI inputs)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/mobile-phone-of-man-who-captured-video-of-general-rawat-s-chopper-sent-for-forensic-tests-101639314953271.html
12-12-2021||India||21 Bangladeshi men nabbed in Kolkata after UP police come looking for trafficker||Twenty-one Bangladeshi young men who illegally entered West Bengal were arrested by the Kolkata Police from Anandapur in the state capital’s southern outskirts on Sunday afternoon, police said. The arrests were made from a residential building in Gulshan Colony after a team of officers from the anti-terrorist squad (ATS) of the Uttar Pradesh police came from Lucknow to trace Mufizul Rehman, an alleged human trafficker, Kolkata police officers said on condition of anonymity. The ATS officers contacted their counterparts in the city police headquarters at Lalbazar. Although such arrests of illegal immigrants from Bangladesh is not uncommon in Bengal, so many people have not been held in Kolkata during a single raid in recent years, the officers added. “The youths were living in an apartment that was used to run a Madrassa. None of them had valid passports or visas but some fake Indian identity cards were seized during the raid,” an officer said. “Rehman was arrested from the spot and taken into custody by the UP ATS team. He will be taken to Lucknow on a transit remand while the men will be produced before a local court on Monday,” the officer added. Rehman is suspected to have helped them enter India. Other residents of the building told the police that they arrived around 45 days ago but never interacted with the local people. With Kolkata gearing up for the December 19 municipal elections, the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) upped the ante after the arrests. BJP state president Sukanta Majumdar, who recently accused the ruling Trinamool Congress (TMC) of turning Kolkata into Bangladesh by changing the city’s demographic character, said, “The arrests have vindicated our stand.” “It is indeed surprising that the city police had no information about these illegal Bangladeshi nationals and the arrests were made only after a team of UP ATS officers came looking for a suspect. Kolkata is becoming a haven for infiltrators from Bangladesh and the TMC is looking the other way,” said Majumdar. No TMC leader commended on the incident till Sunday evening.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/21-bangladeshi-men-nabbed-in-kolkata-after-up-police-come-looking-for-trafficker-101639316282105.html
12-12-2021||India||Kerala's 1st Omicron patient is a UK returnee, overall tally reaches 38||Kerala reported its first Covid case of Omicron variant on Sunday taking the overall tally of this new variant to 38. Earlier in the day, Karnataka, Maharashtra, Andhra Pradesh and Chandigarh reported fresh cases of this new variant. The Omicron patient of Kerala had tested positive on December 8. He had returned to the state from the UK. The new variant of the SARS-CoV-2 was first identified in South Africa on November 24 and on November 26, the World Health Organization declared that Omicron is a variant of concern. India's first cases of Omicron were confirmed on December 2 in Karnataka. “High-risk passengers who were seated next to him have been informed. There is no need to panic. His condition is stable. His wife and mother tested positive for Covid. All of them shifted to the isolation ward. Necessary precautions being taken,” Kerala health minister Veena George said about the first Omicron case in the state. Which states have reported Omicron cases so far in India?Karnataka, Maharashtra, Gujarat, Rajasthan, Delhi, Andhra Pradesh, Punjab and now Kerala have reported Omicron cases. Maharashtra has so far the highest number of cases of this variant. 18 Omicron cases have been reported from the state alone.  Five Omicron cases have been reported on Sunday -- one each in Karnataka, Maharashtra, Chandigarh, Andhra Pradesh and Kerala.International travel and OmicronAlmost all Omicron patients in India have foreign travel history. Amid Omicron concerns, India has put its earlier decision of resuming regular international flights from December 15 on hold. However, there has not been any ban on international travel. Countries have been put on an “at-risk” list so that passengers coming from those countries can be tracked, tested and quarantined. Spreading fast, causing mild symptomsCases in India and across the world indicate that the variant is spreading faster than Delta but the symptoms are milder. There has been no Omicron death recorded anywhere in the world. Patients have not complained of loss of taste of smell or breathing difficulties, which were the usual symptoms of Covid caused by the earlier variants of the virus.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/keralas-1st-omicron-patient-is-a-uk-returnee-overall-tally-reaches-38-101639315573287.html
12-12-2021||India||Owaisi slams Rahul's ‘bring back Hindus’ speech; says, ‘secular agenda in 2021’||Questioning how bringing Hindus to glory can be a secular agenda in 2021, AIMIM president and Hyderabad MP Asadiuddin Owaisin on Sunday slammed Congress leader Rahul Gandhi's Jaipur speech in which Gandhi said India is a country of Hindus and not Hindutvadis."Rahul and INC fertilised the ground for Hindutva. Now they are trying to harvest majoritarianism. Bringing Hindus to power is a secular agenda in 2021. Wah! India belongs to all Bharatiyas. Not Hindus alone. India belongs to people of all faith and also those who have no faith," Owaisi tweeted. Rahul & INC fertilised the ground for Hindutva. Now they’re trying to harvest majoritarianism. Bringing “Hindus to power” is a “secular” agenda in 2021. Wah!India belongs to all Bharatiyas. Not Hindus alone. India belongs to people of all faiths & also those who have no faith pic.twitter.com/9EfpynChqUCongress has been under fire over Salman Khurshid's comment on Hindutva in his new book on Ayodhya verdict. It has also created a difference of opinion among veteran party leaders. Drawing a distinct line between Hindu and Hindutva, Rahul Gandhi on Sunday said a Hindu is one who respects all religions, embraces all and fears none. "Read any scripture -- be in Gita, Upanishad, Ramayan, Mahabharat. Where is it written that poor and weak people are to be oppressed?" Rahul said as Sonia Gandhi, Rajasthan chief minister Ashok Gehlot clapped."If there is inflation in the country and there is suffering, then this has been done by Hindutvadis. Hindutvadis want power at any cost," Rahul said.Mahatma Gandhi was a Hindu and Godse was Hindutvadi, Rahul said explaining that a Hindu continuously searches for truth and spends his entire life for the search just like Mahatma Gandhi while a Hindutvadi spends his entire life for power. A Hindutvadi's way is 'satta'grah and not Satyagrah. "I am Hindu and not Hindutvadi," he added."Lord Krishna did not tell Arjun to kill brothers for power. It is written in the Gita that fight for the truth even if you have to die," Rahul said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/owaisi-slams-rahul-s-bring-back-hindus-speech-says-secular-agenda-in-2021-101639310161399.html
12-12-2021||India||In last message, General Rawat paid tribute to 1971 war heroes||In his last message, recorded the evening before his death in a helicopter crash on December 8, late chief of defence staff (CDS) General Bipin Rawat paid tributes to the heroes of the 1971 India-Pakistan war and invited citizens to take part in the golden jubilee celebrations of the decisive victory against the neighbour and the liberation of Bangladesh. The 70-second video clip was played on Sunday at the inauguration of the Swarnim Vijay Parv at India Gate by defence minister Rajnath Singh. The three-day event, from December 12-14, will mark the culmination of year-long celebrations organised across the country to commemorate the 50th anniversary of victory in the 1971 war.“I extend my best wishes to all soldiers of the Indian armed forces on the occasion of Swarnim Vijay Parv. I remember the brave men of the armed forces and offer tributes to the sacrifices made by them in the war,” Rawat said in his message. “It is a matter of good fortune that the Vijay Parv is being celebrated under the shade of Amar Jawan Jyoti, which was set up in the memory of our brave men killed in action. We invited all citizens to take part in the celebrations,” he concluded. General Rawat, his wife Madhulika Raje Singh Rawat, the CDS’s defence assistant Brigadier LS Lidder and his staff officer Lieutenant Colonel Harjinder Singh were among the 13 people killed in the Mi-17V5 helicopter crash near Coonoor in Tamil Nadu on Wednesday. Rawat was on a visit to the Defence Services Staff College (DSSC) at Wellington to address the faculty and student officers there when the chopper crashed seven minutes away from its destination. Inaugurating the Swarnim Vijay Parv, the defence minister said, “In the untimely death of General Rawat, India has lost a brave soldier, an able advisor and a lively person. He was looking forward to taking part in the Swarnim Vijay Parv.” Paying tributes to the soldiers who took part in the war, the minister said the “glorious victory” in 1971 changed the history and geography of South Asia and the country would remain indebted to the sacrifices made by its warriors. “This festival is a testament to the fact that the memories of 1971 are still fresh in the heart of every Indian. At the same time, it is a symbol of the zeal, passion and valour our forces displayed during the 1971 war. It inspires us to keep moving forward on the path of nation’s progress with the same zeal and passion.” Singh said the atrocities committed on the people of then East Pakistan were a threat to entire humanity and it was India’s responsibility to liberate them. He was referring to the barbarism carried out by the Pakistan army under Operation Searchlight, a crackdown to crush the voices of self-determination.“Our armed forces supported Mukti Bahini, helped lakhs of refugees and prevented any kind of aggression from western and northern sectors. They ensured that the credibility of India’s commitment towards peace, justice and humanity in the world community is maintained,” the minister said. Singh said the 1971 war as among the most decisive wars in the world after the two World Wars. “This war tells us that the Partition of India on the basis of religion was a historic mistake. Pakistan was born in the name of one religion but it could not remain one. After the defeat in 1971, it is continuously fighting a proxy war…We won in a direct war and the victory will be ours in indirect war as well,” he added. The event came a day after paratroopers of the army carried out a mass jump at a premier base in Agra to mark 50 years of the historic battalion-sized Tangail airdrop north of Dhaka during the 1971 war, a critical operation that set the stage for surrender by the rival army. Central Army commander Lieutenant General Yogendra Dimri led the mass jump involving 120 elite paratroopers and four veterans who took part in the 1971 war. The army and the air force dedicated the jump to Rawat and the 12 others killed in the helicopter crash.
12-12-2021||India||CDS chopper crash: Lt Colonel Harjinder Singh cremated with full military honours||Lieutenant Colonel Harjinder Singh, the staff officer to the late Chief of Defence Staff (CDS) General Bipin Rawat, was on Sunday cremated with full military honours at Delhi's Brar Square crematorium, four days after the Indian Air Force (IAF) helicopter crash in Tamil Nadu's Nilgiris district, which led to the demise of 13 out of 14 people on board, including General Rawat, his wife Madhulika Rawat and Lt Col Singh himself.Also Read | Bodies of all soldiers killed in Coonoor helicopter crash identifiedThe army officer's daughter performed her father's last rites, news agency ANI reported. #WATCH | Daughter of Lt Colonel Harjinder Singh, who died in the Tamil Nadu chopper crash, performs his last rites at Brar Square in New Delhi pic.twitter.com/RDY58ZIDj7Defence minister Rajnath Singh, the three service chiefs and other military officials were among those who paid tribute to Lt Col Singh, who is survived by his daughter, Preet Kaur, and wife, Agnel P Manezes, who retired from the Indian Army as a major. Delhi: Indian Army chief General MM Naravane, IAF chief Air Chief Marshal Vivek Ram Chaudhari, Indian Navy chief Admiral R Hari Kumar, and other military officers paid tributes to Lt Colonel Harjinder Singh who died in the Tamil Nadu chopper crash pic.twitter.com/kDDxuvZM4z“Paid tributes to Lt. Colonel Harjinder Singh who died in the tragic helicopter crash in Tamil Nadu. His untimely demise is extremely saddening. My deepest condolences to his family and friends. May God give them strength to bear this massive loss,” the defence minister tweeted. Paid tributes to Lt. Colonel Harjinder Singh who died in the tragic helicopter crash in Tamil Nadu. His untimely demise is extremely saddening. My deepest condolences to his family and friends. May God give them strength to bear this massive loss. pic.twitter.com/t6O2SY7K83Wednesday's crash took place when General Rawat, the country's first and sitting defence chief, was on his way to the Wellington-based Defence Services Staff College (DSSC) to deliver a lecture. Besides CDS Rawat, Madhulika Rawat and Lieutenant Colonel Harjinder Singh, those who lost their lives in this tragedy were Brigadier LS Lidder, Wing Commander Prithvi Singh Chauhan (pilot), Squadron Leader Kuldeep Singh (co-pilot), Junior Warrant Officers Rana Pratap Das and Arakkal Pradeep, Lance Naik Vivek Kumar, Lance Naik B Sai Teja, Havildar Satpal Rai, Naik Gursewak Singh and Naik Jitendra Kumar.Also Read | Late CDS Bipin Rawat's pre-recorded message played at 'Swarnim Vijay Parv' eventGroup Captain Varun Singh, the sole survivor, is currently under treatment at a military hospital in Bengaluru, where is condition is said to be ‘critical.’Also Read | Rajnath speaks to IAF Group Captain Varun Singh's father, in touch with familyThe IAF has constituted a tri-service Court of Inquiry (CoI) to probe the crash. It will be headed by Air Marshal Manvendra Singh.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/cds-chopper-crash-lt-colonel-harjinder-singh-cremated-with-full-military-honours-101639306692528.html
12-12-2021||India||News updates from HT: G7 warns Russia against military offensive on Ukraine and all the latest news||Here are today-’s top news, analysis and opinion. Know all about the latest news and other news updates from Hindustan Times.G7 nations warn Russia of ‘massive consequences’ if it invades UkraineThe Group of Seven richest democracies, or G7 nations, on Sunday warned Russia of “massive consequences” if it launches military offensive against Ukraine, news agencies reported citing a draft statement. Read more‘Must have been a great sight for cameramen': Sourav Ganguly shares anecdote about Rahul Dravid's humble natureConsidered one of the most humble individuals on and off the field, current India head coach Rahul Dravid has shown many times why cricket is described as the "gentleman's game". Read moreKatrina Kaif and Vicky Kaushal's mehendi pics out: He goes down on one knee, she dances with dad-in-law Sham KaushalActors Katrina Kaif and Vicky Kaushal tied the knot in Rajasthan on December 9. Since the wedding, the couple has been posting pictures of their ceremonies on Instagram. On Sunday, Katrina and Vicky posted a series of pictures from their mehendi-sangeet ceremony. Read moreMG Motor India exploring overseas shipments to UK, South AfricaMG Motor India is exploring the opportunity of overseas shipments from the country to markets such as the UK and South Africa besides tapping other right-hand-drive markets in the world. Read moreSuffering from runny nose? How to know if it's Omicron or common cold; expert answersWith Omicron cases rising to 33 in India, people are once again fearing yet another Covid wave. Omicron, the latest strain of concern, is said to be more infectious but less ferocious than delta as far as severity of the disease and mortality is concerned. So far, the patients infected by it including vaccinated ones have exhibited mild symptoms. Read moreFrench men groove to Telugu song Naatu Naatu, video wows peopleUnless you have been staying far away from the Internet, there is a high possibility that you have seen at least one post related to the Telugu song Naatu Naatu. Many are now sharing videos of themselves recreating the hook steps of the song. Read more||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/news-updates-from-ht-g7-warns-russia-against-military-offensive-on-ukraine-and-all-the-latest-news-101639307278144.html
12-12-2021||India||‘Rahul and Priyanka Gandhi have challenge to save Congress’: Sena MP Sanjay Raut||Shiv Sena on Sunday said that Rahul Gandhi and Priyanka Gandhi Vadra have the task to save the Congress party. Sena leader Sanjay Raut, in his weekly column Rokhthok in party mouthpiece Saamana, said that the only way to save the Congress is through staunch nationalism, which Lokmanya Tilak used to bring the party out of the meeting rooms to people on the streets. Raut while praising Rahul and Priyanka for their efforts to revive the party, said that the ‘seniors’ in Congress have been given their dues, but they are not ready to take the responsibility when the party needs them the most. Raut, who met Rahul Gandhi and Priyanka Gandhi Vadra last week in New Delhi, said that Gandhi faces his biggest challenge to revive the party. He added that a picture has been created that opposition parties are not ready to unite under the leadership of Gandhi, which is not entirely true. “Congress got a life after the rise of Lokmanya Tilak. He brought Congress out of the discussion rooms onto the ground. He created public awareness and the Swadeshi movement through the newspapers like Maratha and Kesari... Tilak’s contribution was unparallel and he completely changed the character of Congress... Lokmanya gave Congress staunch nationalism... The brother-sister duo of Rahul-Priyanka has the challenge to save the Congress. It can be saved through Lokmanya’s way [of] staunch nationalism. The inferiority complex set in the society through the false prosperity and dazzle of BJP-Modi has to be removed,” Raut wrote in his column RokhThok published in Sena mouthpiece Saamana.He said that the drums for the 2024 general election have started beating. “The assembly election in five states including Uttar Pradesh and Punjab is like the dress rehearsal for the 2024 election,” he said, adding that Trinamool Congress chief and West Bengal chief minister Mamata Banerjee is “roaming the country” with the intent to form a new Opposition front.Days after Mamata Banerjee, during her Mumbai visit, remarked on the existence of the United Progressive Alliance (UPA), the Shiv Sena and Nationalist Congress Party took a pro-Congress stand and maintained that there can’t be an Opposition front without the Congress, as it would benefit the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP). Subsequently, Raut met Gandhi on December 7 and Vadra on December 8 in New Delhi.“Doubts are raised over Rahul Gandhi’s leadership. The opposition parties in the country are not ready to unite under Rahul Gandhi’s leadership. Therefore, Modi and his party have a clear road ahead, such a picture has been created. This is not entirely true,” Raut wrote.Raut mentioned some discussions that were held during his meeting with Gandhi and Vadra, including Banerjee, the use of central agencies against Opposition party leaders, and senior Congress leaders quitting the grand old party. Raut said that Priyanka Gandhi Vadra’s husband Robert Vadra was served 69 notices from the Income Tax Department right after she went to Lakhimpur Kheri in Uttar Pradesh, where eight people, including four farmers, were mowed to death by a car. He wrote that Priyanka said she won’t back down and will continue her fight. The Sena MP added that in his discussion with Rahul Gandhi, the latter asked the question about what Mamata Banerjee wants. “What does she really want? No matter how much she criticises me, I will not speak on her,” Raut quoted Rahul in the column.The Sena leader added that in the past, many people have written the obituary of Congress after its electoral debacle in 1967. Though the party faced defeats in the last decade, the recent bye-poll results showed that Congress can win. “It was said that the future of the party was bleak after the death of Pandit Nehru. After his death, Congress was routed in eight states. The opposition had written an obituary and performed last rites on the Congress, but after every defeat, Congress stood up. In the last 10 years, Congress is facing defeats, but it cannot be said that it is finished. Congress won by-polls in 13 states and after that Prime Minister Narendra Modi repealed the three farm laws,” Raut said in the column.Regarding senior Congress leaders quitting the party, Rahul, according to the column, said, “The party has given these senior leaders a lot, but when the party needs them they are taking a different stand now. What can I do?” About former Punjab chief minister Captain Amarinder Singh quitting the Congress, Rahul said, “He was the chief minister of Punjab, and under his leadership, Congress’ graph dropped. We conducted a poll, and only 6% of people were in favour of the chief minister. Those who were not in the race for the chief ministership got more responses than him. He (Singh) was asked to fulfil the promises made to the people ahead of the election, but his response was cold. He was asked to perform, or the party would have to take some action. After that, the seniors in the party backed Amarinder and told me not to take tough decisions. Had we not removed him, the Congress would have been finished in Punjab. What should we do with such seniors? I have never disrespected anybody...,” the column quoted Rahul.Rahul Gandhi further said that he never disrespected Ghulam Nabi Azad either. He said that Azad was asked to head the party’s Jammu Kashmir unit after his term in the Rajya Sabha ended. “For several years, he has been in power through the party. He was the leader of the Opposition in the Rajya Sabha. After his term ended in Rajya Sabha, I had a discussion with him and asked him to head the party in Jammu and Kashmir. And said that he could become the chief minister again...but he declined the offer. He said that the party is nonexistent there,” Gandhi was quoted in the column.
12-12-2021||India||After Chandigarh, Andhra Pradesh, Omicron confirmed in Nagpur, tally rises to 37||A 40-year-old man has tested positive for Omicron, the latest variant of SARS-CoV-2 on Sunday, making this the first Omicron case of Nagpur. Maharashtra, as of now, has the highest number of Omicron cases in the country. Earlier on Sunday, new cases were confirmed in Karnataka, Chandigarh and Andhra Pradesh. "After returning to Nagpur, the man underwent genome sequencing along with the Covid-19 test. Only then did it become clear that he had an omicron infection. He is stable and is undergoing treatment at the hospital. Other members of the patient's family have been reported negative. Other people who came in contact with the patient concerned are being traced and all of them will be tested by the administration. Samples were taken from the person concerned at Nagpur airport on December 4," said municipal commissioner Radhakrishnan B.Karnataka on Sunday reported its third case of Omicron after a 34-year-old man, who has returned from South Africa testes positive with this variant.In Chandigarh, a 20-year-old Italian resident tested positive with the variant marking the first case of the city.In Andhra Pradesh, a 34-year-old who came from Ireland was confirmed Covid positive with the Omicron variant.What India's Omicron cases tell about the new variant so farIndia's Omicron cases offer a wide range of ages with even a one-year-old and a three-year-old having tested positive for the new variant.All patients of the Omicron variant are majorly asymptomatic and are not showing signs of any severe illness.A majority of the patients are starting to recover within a week.Light fever and extreme tiredness are some of the common symptoms which all Omicron patients have reported. Excepting a few cases, most of the Omicron patients in India have foreign travel history.On December 2, the first two Omicron cases were confirmed in India, almost a week after South Africa identified the new variant and raised the alarm over its rapid transmission.The one-and-a-half-year-old girl who was detected with the Omicron variant has been discharged while the three-year-old boy with this variant has started recovering, reports said on Saturday.The Omicron variant, which appears to be spreading faster than Delta but causing mild illness, has now spread to around 58 countries, according to the World Health Organization.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/after-chandigarh-andhra-pradesh-omicron-confirmed-in-nagpur-tally-rises-to-37-101639304342053.html
12-12-2021||India||'Dancing in Goa': Over Gen Rawat's chopper crash, BJP targets Congress||Uttarakhand chief minister Pushkar Singh Dhami on Sunday targetted the Congress and Congress leader Priyanka Gandhi Vadra and said while the country was mourning the demise of the 12 defence personnel, including Chief of Defence Staff General Bipin Rawat, the "opposition was celebrating". They should be ashamed of themselves; they were dancing in Goa during an election campaign, Dhami said targetting Priyanka Gandhi who recently took part in a fold dance performance of the tribal women of Morpirla village.Without naming the Congress, Dhami said, "We have lost bravehearts of the country. The entire country is mourning. He (Gen Rawat) was very connected to Uttarakhand. He always used to think of Uttarakhand's development. The day his last rites were performed, a political party was celebrating. They should be ashamed. After all, they live in this country. They are in this country only physically, their soul is somewhere else. That's why they don't care," Dhami said.Congress president Sonia Gandhi calls off birthday celebrations over CDS Rawat’s demise #WATCH When CDS Rawat was being cremated, a party was celebrating. They should be ashamed. They are present only physically, their souls somewhere else. A family which ruled for 55 yrs have no feelings for martyrs...dancing, launching poll campaign in Goa: Uttarakhand CM PS Dhami pic.twitter.com/egMX8Qi2IB"One party ruled this country for 60 years after Independence. And out of those 60 years, one family rules the country for 55 years. They never got connected with our soldiers. They lost wars on negotiation table which were won by our soldiers on the field," the chief minister said. Everyone must have seen the video on television, Dhami told the gathering. On December 8, an IAF helicopter carrying 14 on board crashed in Coonoor in Tamil Nadu, resulting in the death of 13. IAF Group Captain Varun Singh is the only survivor of the crash. With major burns in the maximum part of his body, he is being treated at Command Hospital in Bengaluru.As the nation bid a tearful adieu to its heroes, several state governments have taken action against offensive messages against General Rawat or any late defence personnel. Gujarat has arrested a 44-year-old man for allegedly making derogatory remarks about the death of Gen Rawat on his Facebook. In Rajasthan, several have been arrested for their social media posts on Gen Rawat. Uttarakhand and Karnataka governments have instructed the police to take immediate action if any such case is reported in the states. When 26/11 happened, Rahul Gandhi was partying till wee hours of morning.Like brother, Priyanka Vadra too is dancing away in Goa while the entire nation is mourning and steeped in sadness as CDS Gen Bipin Rawat is being cremated.Can anything be more shameful than this? pic.twitter.com/hggjarFJdxOver the tragic chopper crash, the BJP has targeted Priyanka Gandhi's dancing video which was shared on Congress's official Twitter on December 10, two days after the crash. On December 10, the last rites of Gen Bipin Rawat and wife Madhulika Rawat were performed in Delhi. Congress leader Rahul Gandhi paid his last respect to Gen Rawat as the bodies were kept at their military residence.Sharing the video of Priyanka Gandhi dancing in Goa, BJP IT head Amit Malviya tweeted, "When 26/11 happened, Rahul Gandhi was partying till wee hours of morning. Like brother, Priyanka Vadra too is dancing away in Goa while the entire nation is mourning and steeped in sadness as CDS Gen Bipin Rawat is being cremated. Can anything be more shameful than this?"On the day of the tragic crash, Congress president Sonia Gandhi urged party workers to not celebrate her birthday which was on the next day, on December 9.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/dancing-in-goa-over-gen-rawat-s-chopper-crash-bjp-targets-congress-101639302378549.html
12-12-2021||India||'Who is a Hindu?' asks Rahul Gandhi in Jaipur. Targets BJP with his answer||India needs to throw ‘Hindutvavadis’ out of power and bring back Hindus, Congress leader Rahul Gandhi said on Sunday while addressing a rally in Rajashthan’s Jaipur. Gandhi compared ‘Hindu’ and 'Hindutvavadi' saying there is a competition between the two words with different meanings in Indian politics. The former Congress president said Mahatma Gandhi was a Hindu but the man who assassinated him, Nathuram Godse, was Hindutvavadi.“In Indian politics today, there is a competition between two worlds -- 'Hindu' and 'Hindutvavadi'. The two words have different meanings. I am Hindu but not Hindutvavadi... Mahatma Gandhi was a Hindu but Godse was Hindutavadi,” Rahul Gandhi said.Attacking the ruling BJP government at the Centre, Gandhi said “Hindutvavadis only want power and they are in power since 2014. We need to throw these Hindutvavadis out of power and bring back Hindus.”'Dancing in Goa': Over Gen Rawat's chopper crash, BJP targets CongressGandhi was in Jaipur for a rally against inflation in the country, which the Congress has termed as a “decisive fight” against the central government. Congress interim president Sonia Gandhi, Congress general secretary Priyanka Gandhi Vadra and Rajasthan chief minister Ashok Gehlot were also present at the ‘Mehengai Hatao Maharally’.The Lok Sabha member from Wayanad said that Hindutvavadis spend their entire life in search of power and can do anything for it, adding that they follow the path of 'Sattagrah', not 'Satyagrah'."Who is a Hindu? The one who embraces everybody. Who is a Hindu? The one who fears nobody? Who is a Hindu? The one who respects every religion," he told the gathering.“You can read any of (Hindu) scriptures. Be it Ramayana, Maharabharata, Geeta, or Upanishads. Tell me where is it written that a poor should be beaten up, where is it written that a marginalised person should be oppressed,” he asked rhetorically.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/who-is-a-hindu-asks-rahul-gandhi-in-jaipur-targets-bjp-with-his-answer-101639302442258.html
12-12-2021||India||‘ ₹2,100 crore a year’ says Congress on Trinamool’s ‘Griha Laxmi’ scheme in Goa; ‘perfectly doable’ retorts TMC||The Congress on Sunday taunted the Trinamool Congress' pre-poll promise in Goa, under which the Mamata Banerjee-led party promised a direct cash transfer every month to women in the state if elected to power. The scheme was titled ‘Griha Laxmi’ and was announced earlier on Saturday by the TMC in the run-up to the state assembly polls next year.Former Union minister P Chidambaram said that the scheme would cost ₹2,100 crore a year, if ₹5,000 was given to women in 350,000 households in the state.“A monthly grant of ₹5,000 to a woman in 3.5 lakh households in Goa will cost ₹175 crore a month. That is ₹2,100 crore a year,” he tweeted. He also mocked that the idea “deserves a Nobel Prize for Economics.” Further, he said that Goa’s debt stood at ₹23,473 crore in March 2020. “It is a 'small' sum for the State of Goa that had an outstanding debt of Rs. 23,473 crore at the end of March 2020. God bless Goa! Or should it be God save Goa?” he said in a subsequent tweet.It is a “small” sum for the State of Goa that had an outstanding debt of Rs. 23,473 crore at the end of March 2020.God bless Goa! Or should it be God save Goa?Meanwhile, Trinamool Congress MP Mahua Moitra, who was recently appointed as the party’s Goa in-charge, replied to Chidambaram’s remarks and said that the promise was “perfectly doable.”Also read | TMC promises ₹5,000 per family per month if voted to power in Goa“Yes sir @PChidambaram_IN ₹5000 to 3.5 lakh Goan households = ₹2100 crores is 6-8% of total budget which is perfectly doable. Good economics in depressed post covid scenario requires putting cash in hand & liquidity into system,” she said in a tweet.Yes sir @PChidambaram_IN ₹5000 to 3.5 lakh Goan households = ₹2100 crores is 6-8% of total budget which is perfectly doable Good economics in depressed post covid scenario requires putting cash in hand & liquidity into system.The Goa unit of the TMC also replied to the Congress leader and said, “You can continue doing the Math @PChidambaram_IN ji, while we are busy immersing ourselves in serving the people of Goa since that's the need of the hour. Goa deserves good & sensible governance, & it’s time someone provided that,” in a tweet.The exchange in Twitter between the two parties comes amidst the growing rift between them in recent days. On December 10, Congress general secretary Priyanka Gandhi visited the state and held several programmes, including a women’s convention. However, the Mamata Banerjee-led party said that the people of Goa didn’t trust the leadership of Congress and even claimed that several women walked out of the event.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/rs-2-100-crore-a-year-says-congress-on-trinamool-s-griha-laxmi-scheme-in-goa-perfectly-doable-retorts-tmc-101639302061612.html
12-12-2021||India||PDP youth convention barred in Srinagar citing Covid, Mufti slams administration||A youth convention of the J&K Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) at party president Mehbooba Mufti's residence in Srinagar's Gupkar Road was barred by authorities on Sunday citing the restrictions imposed to check the spread of coronavirus disease (Covid-19) in Jammu & Kashmir.According to an official order signed by the first-class executive magistrate of south Srinagar, based on a 'report' received from the senior superintendent of police, “It is hereby ordered that the scheduled youth conference that is to be held by PDP at Gupkar is hereby not allowed.”The magistrate also directed the station house officer to make sure that no such event happens without the permission of the authority.After being stopped from holding the convention at Mehbooba Mufti's residence in Srinagar, the PDP tried holding it at the headquarters in Sher-e-Kashmir Park, but the office was sealed by the administration, PDP spokesperson Najam-us-Saqib told news agency PTI on Sunday.Saqib also said that Mehbooba Mufti was placed under house arrest, adding PDP activists were barred from moving towards her residence. However, there is no official confirmation regarding Mufti's house arrest.Reacting sharply to incident, Mehbooba Mufti, the former Jammu and Kashmir chief minister, said the youths associated with the PDP were turned away from her door because the administration is petrified of their voice and what it could achieve.She called the administration's action 'sabotage', and said that when she wanted to speak to the youth and know about their well-being, the administration cited Covid-19 as a reason to stop them.“You were prevented from reaching me today but this makes us more determined to remain steadfast on our mission of peace with dignity,” Mufti said in a video message posted on Twitter.She is set to address a press conference at 3pm given the sequence of events.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/pdp-youth-convention-barred-in-srinagar-citing-covid-mufti-slams-administration-101639293746023.html
12-12-2021||India||Shashi Tharoor teaches social media what 'allodoxaphobia' is. Adds a UP angle to it||Congress MP Shashi Tharoor, who is a word wizard and known for his choicest of uncommon words, on Sunday taught social media a new word, which he termed as not only the word of the day but also the word of the last seven years. Allodoxaphobia, he explained, is an irrational fear of opinions. Giving an example of how to use the word, Tharoor wrote, "The BJP government in UP slaps sedition and UAPA cases on people because its leadership suffers from allodoxaphobia." The origin of the word id green with 'allo' meaning different, dox meaning opinion and phobos comes from the Greek God of fear. Word of the day, indeed of the last seven years: *Allodoxaphobia*Meaning: an irrational fear of opinions.Usage: “The BJP government in UP slaps sedition& UAPA cases on people because its leadership suffers from allodoxaphobia.”(Greek: Allo=different, doxo=opinion,phobos=fearThe Thiruvananthapuram MP is quite active on Twitter and has recently been trolled for two of his photos. On the first day of the winter session of Parliament, his photo with some of the women MPs invited criticism as he captioned the photo saying, "Who says the Lok Sabha isn't an attractive place to work?" Later, he clarified that both the photo and the caption were done at good humour and at the initiative of the women MPs.In another photo with a newlywed, Shashi Tharoor was mistaken as the groom and as he was being mercilessly trolled on Twitter, he said he was used to such trolling but objected to dragging non-political people (the newlyweds) into it. "Bhakti towards the divine is to be respected. Bhakti towards a political leader or cause, especially in the name of religion, is deplorable. Bhakts in the latter sense refers to the devotees of the Sangh Parivar & Moditva," he had tweeted.Ahead of the UP election, Tharoor chose to explain the meaning of allodoxaphobia using Yogi Adityanath's state while many social media users asked him whether the word can be applicable to the Congress as well, regarding the G-23 situation.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/shashi-tharoor-teaches-social-media-what-allodoxaphobia-is-adds-a-up-angle-to-it-101639298682080.html
12-12-2021||India||Omicron cases in India rise to 36; Karnataka, Chandigarh, Andhra report 1 each||India’s tally of Omicron cases rose to 36 after three more people were detected with the latest variant of the coronavirus in Karnataka, Chandigarh and Andhra Pradesh, according to local officials on Sunday.The first Omicron cases of the country were also reported from Karnataka, where a doctor and a South African national tested positive for the latest variant of the coronavirus.Here is the latest on the three new Omicron cases in India:1. A 34-year-old man, who came back from South Africa, has tested positive, Karnataka’s health minister Dr Sudhakar K said in a tweet. He has been isolated and being treated in a government hospital, the minister also said. Five of this primary and 15 secondary contacts have been traced and their samples sent for testing, he added.2. The first case of the new Omicron variant of Covid-19 has been detected in Chandigarh with a 20-year-old Italian resident testing positive for the new variant on Saturday night, the health department said on Sunday.Also read | Omicron variant causing milder Covid-19 than delta: South African doctors3. The man, a resident of Italy, landed in India on November 22 and tested negative for Covid-19 at his arrival at the Sri Guru Ram Das Ji International Airport in Amritsar. He, then travelled to Chandigarh to meet his relatives and was staying in the Manimajra area.4. The man, who is fully vaccinated with the Pfizer vaccine and has been asymptomatic, was put under home quarantine and was tested again on December 1 after he completed eight days in quarantine, Chandigarh health department said.Also read | Australia adds Moderna as vaccine booster, cuts wait time for 3rd shot5. The Chandigarh health department said he tested positive for Covid-19 on December 1 after his sample was sent for genome sequencing at Delhi’s National Centre for Disease Control (NCDC).6. The health department shifted the man to institutional quarantine at Manimajra Civil Hospital. His seven high-risk family contacts were also put under quarantine and were tested for Covid-19 on December 1. All of them were found negative for the virus.Also read | ICMR team designs kit to detect Omicron variant in 2 hours7. The man in Chandigarh has been tested for Covid-19 again on Sunday and the report is awaited.8. In Andhra Pradesh, a 34-year-old foreign traveller, who came from Ireland to Mumbai Airport, was tested and found negative for Covid-19. He was allowed to travel to Visakhapatnam on November 27, 2021.9. After he was found Covid-19 18 positive after a re-test at Vizianagaram, his sample was sent to CCMB, Hyderabad for genome sequencing and the result was declared as Omicron positive.10. He does not have any symptoms and was re-tested on December 11 and his RT-PCR test result came negative.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/omicron-cases-in-india-rise-to-36-karnataka-chandigarh-andhra-report-1-each-101639296540744.html
12-12-2021||India||New India focuses on resolving problems, not delaying resolution: PM Modi||Prime Minister Narendra Modi said on Sunday the new India focuses on resolving problems rather than delaying their resolution in a shift from the “attitude” prevalent in the country for years when the “problems were swept under the carpet”.“If banks are to be saved, depositors have to be provided security. We have saved banks and provided security to depositors,” PM Modi said while addressing a bank deposit insurance event organised in Delhi."Today is an important day for the banking sector and account holders. Today symbolises the fact that the government has always kept the 'Depositors First'. Depositors first, the name of this programme reflects our priority and responsibility towards them and their needs," he added.Also read | PM Modi to inaugurate Kashi Vishwanath Corridor tomorrow. Here’s how it looksUnion finance minister Nirmala Sitharaman and Reserve Bank of India (RBI) governor Shaktikanta Das were also present at the event.#WATCH | When I was CM, I repeatedly requested Centre to increase bank deposit insurance cover to ₹5 lakhs from ₹1 lakh but to no avail. So people sent me here to do it: PM Modi at an event on 'Depositors First: Guaranteed Time-bound Deposit Insurance Payment up to ₹5 Lakh' pic.twitter.com/GoEE34Jy2rPM Modi also recalled his time as the chief minister of Gujarat, when, he said, he requested the central government in power to “increase bank deposit insurance cover to ₹5 lakhs from ₹1 lakh” but “to no avail”.“So people sent me here to do it,” PM Modi said in an apparent dig at the Congress government which was in power before Narendra Modi-led Bharatiya Janata Party ousted it in the 2014 general elections.Also read | ‘May he keep inspiring people with his creativity, phenomenal acting’: PM Modi wishes Rajinikanth on his 71st birthdayGiving more details on the scheme, PM Modi said the guaranteed time-bound deposit insurance payment within 90 days covers ₹76 lakh crore of deposits in banks.“The government changed laws to provide for depositors to get back their money in a time-bound manner in case banks go down under,” news agency ANI quoted PM Modi as saying.With deposit insurance coverage of ₹5 lakh per depositor per bank, the number of fully protected accounts at the end of the previous financial year constituted 98.1 per cent of the total number of accounts, as against the international benchmark of 80 per cent, according to ANI.During the event, PM Modi also handed over symbolic cheques to the depositors of the banks that failed to return their money, under the 'Depositors First: Guaranteed Time-bound Deposit Insurance Payment up to ₹5 Lakh' scheme, visuals tweeted by ANI showed.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/new-india-focuses-on-resolving-problems-not-delaying-resolution-pm-modi-101639294465289.html
12-12-2021||India||‘May he keep inspiring people with his creativity, phenomenal acting’: PM Modi wishes Rajinikanth on his 71st birthday||Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Sunday wished veteran actor Rajinikanth on his 71st birthday. Taking to Twitter, Modi said that he wished that Rajinikanth keeps inspiring people with his creativity and phenomenal acting.“A very happy birthday to Rajinikanth Ji. May he keep inspiring people with his creativity and phenomenal acting. May Almighty bless him with a long and healthy life,” the Prime Minister wrote on the microblogging site.Regarded as one of the most prominent actors in the history of Indian cinema, Rajinikanth has appeared in more than 160 films, mainly in Kollywood.Also referred to as 'Thalaiva' by his fans and followers, Rajinikanth has completed more than 45 years as an actor.A very happy birthday to @rajinikanth Ji. May he keep inspiring people with his creativity and phenomenal acting. May Almighty bless him with a long and healthy life.Born Shivaji Rao Gaekwad on December 12, 1950, he was given the name 'Rajinikanth' by ace Tamil filmmaker K Balachander in whose 1975 flick 'Apporva Raagangal' he debuted in a supportive role, according to news agency PTI. Eight years later, in 1983, Rajinikanth made his debut in Bollywood with ‘Andha Kanoon’ along with Amitabh Bachchan and Hema Malini.Rajinikanth has been conferred with many national and state-level awards. Last year, he received the prestigious Dadasaheb Phalke award for his contribution to Indian cinema. The veteran actor is also the recipient of the Padma Vibhushan, the second-highest civilian award.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/pm-modi-wishes-veteran-actor-rajinikanth-on-his-71st-birthday-101639289561931.html
12-12-2021||India||News updates from HT: Rajnath inaugurates 'Vijay Parv' to observe India's victory in 1971 war, and all the latest news||Here are today’s top news, analysis and opinion. Know all about the latest news and other news updates from Hindustan Times.Inaugurating the ‘Wall of Fame’ to commemorate the heroes of the 1971 Bangladesh Liberation War at New Delhi's India Gate, Union defence minister Rajnath Singh said on Sunday that India has contributed to the establishment of democracy in Bangladesh and in the last 50 years, the neighbouring country has progressed on the path of development. Read moreA pre-recorded message of the late chief of defence staff General Bipin Rawat, who was killed along with 12 others in a helicopter crash on December 8, was played at an event at Delhi's India Gate to observe Swarnim Vijay Parv on Sunday to commemorate 50 years of India's historic victory in the 1971 war. Read moreAmazon chief Jeff Bezos said he was "heartbroken" Saturday after at least six people were killed at an Amazon warehouse in the US state of Illinois when it was struck by a tornado. Read moreEarlier this week, the BCCI confirmed the appointment of Rohit Sharma as India's full-time white-ball captain. The Indian opener was named the ODI skipper on Wednesday, having already been appointed the T20I captain last month. Read moreHyundai Motor India has launched a 10-day nationwide Hyundai Smart Care Clinic customer connect program offering periodic maintenance, sanitization, road-side assistance (RSA) as well as special year-end offers and benefits to customers. Also readActors Sara Ali Khan and Dhanush are currently promoting their upcoming film Atrangi Re. In a video shared on social media, a photographer can be seen asking Dhanush to say something in ‘south’. Read moreCome winter season and the crunchy and delicious peanuts become one of your favourite companions. A handful of roasted peanut becomes your go-to snack, poha-moongfali your favourite breakfast, and peanut chikki is enjoyed by many to satiate post-meal sugar cravings. Read moreIn the latest edition of Hindustan Times’ The Interview, Kumkum Chadha spoke to former chief minister of Meghalaya Mukul Sangma. The former Congress leader spoke on the allegations levelled by the party against him. Watch more||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/news-updates-from-ht-rajnath-inaugurates-vijay-parv-to-observe-india-s-victory-in-1971-war-and-all-the-latest-news-101639292569310.html
12-12-2021||India||Andhra Pradesh detects first case of Omicron variant; national tally touches 35||Andhra Pradesh detected its first case of Omicron variant of Covid-19 on Sunday, pushing the nationwide tally of infection from the newly detected strain to 35.A statement from Andhra Pradesh's directorate of public health said the 34-year-old traveller who landed in Mumbai from Ireland initally tested negative for coronavirus diease (Covid-19) when an RT-PCR test was conducted on him.Based on the report, he was allowed to travel to Visakhapatnam on November 27, when his samples were collected for a re-test, and it came out to be positive.When the authorities sent his samples to Hyderabad-based Centre for Cellular and Molecular Biology (CCMB) for genome sequencing, the results showed presence of Omicron variant in his blood.“He does not have any symptoms and was re-tested on December 11, and the RT-PCR result was found to be negative for Covid-19. There are no other Omicron cases in the state,” a media statement by the state's health department read.ALSO READ | Omicron variant causing milder Covid-19 than delta: South African doctorsThe state health department informed that so far a total of 15 international travellers tested positive for Covid-19 and all the samples were sent to CCMB for genome sequencing. While the reports of 10 samples have been received only one among them were found to contain the traces of Omicron variant.“Public are advised not to worry and believe in any rumours but continue to take precautions and follow social distancing, wearing of mask, washing hands regularly,” the public health department of Andhra Pradesh stressed.Earlier in the day, a 20-year-old man from Italy, who arrived in India last month, was found positive for Omicron in Chandigarh.So far, at 17, Maharashtra has detected the most cases of Omicron variant in the country, followed by nine cases in Rajasthan, three in Gujarat and two each in Delhi and Karnataka.Experts and virologists have suggested that the spread of the Omicron variant is less concerning than that of the Delta as the symptoms are mild, partly owing to high rate of seropositivity among Indians.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/omicron-variant-india-tally-coronavirus-cases-andhra-pradesh-101639291896523.html
12-12-2021||India||India reports 2 more Omicron cases, tally mounts to 35||India reported two more cases of the Omicron variant of the coronavirus in Punjab’s Chandigarh and Andhra Pradesh, officials said on Sunday, taking the country-wide tally of such cases to 35.According to officials of the Chandigarh health department, a 20-year-old man from Italy, who landed in India last month, has tested positive for the Omicron variant. The man landed in India on November 22 and was diagnosed with Covid-19 on December 1, according to news agency ANI.Also read | Omicron cases in India will mostly be asymptomatic, says expert. Here's why“He is fully vaccinated with Pfizer vaccine. He has been tested for Covid-19 again today and the report is awaited,” an official of the Chandigarh health department was quoted as saying by ANI.The Andhra Pradesh health department said a 34-year old foreign traveller, who came from Ireland, tested positive for Omicron, in the first such case detected in the southern state.Also read | Omicron variant causing milder Covid-19 than delta: South African doctorsThe person, who first landed in Mumbai, was tested and found negative for Covid-19 and was then allowed to travel to Visakhapatnam on November 27."On conducting a second RT-PCR test in Vizianagaram, he tested positive for Covid-19. His sample was then sent to the Centre for Cellular and Molecular Biology in Hyderabad for genome sequencing and the result came out as Omicron positive," the director of public health said in a release.Also read | Omicron impact to be less severe on India’s economy, says reportThe person, however, did not have any symptoms and a re-test on December 11 showed he was Covid-19 negative.So far, 15 foreign travellers to the state have been found Covid-19 positive and all the samples were sent to CCMB for genome sequencing."Of the 15, genome sequencing reports related to 10 cases were received and only one of them was confirmed Omicron positive," the director added.Official asked people not to worry and continue to follow Covid appropriate behaviour and take necessary precautions.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/india-reports-2-more-omicron-cases-tally-mounts-to-35-101639291454096.html
12-12-2021||India||Late CDS Bipin Rawat's pre-recorded message played at 'Swarnim Vijay Parv' event||A pre-recorded message of the late chief of defence staff General Bipin Rawat, who was killed along with 12 others in a helicopter crash on December 8, was played at an event at Delhi's India Gate to observe Swarnim Vijay Parv on Sunday to commemorate 50 years of India's historic victory in the 1971 war.In a video tweeted by news agency ANI, which it said was sourced from the Indian Army, Bipin Rawat can be heard remembering the contribution of soldiers who fought and sacrificed their lives during the 1971 war, a military confrontation that took place between India and Pakistan to pave the way for the liberation of Bangladesh.Gen Rawat is also heard inviting citizens to take part in the celebrations. Rawat ends on a note, “Apni senao par hai humein garv, aap milke manaye Vijay Parv”.#WATCH Late CDS General Bipin Rawat's pre-recorded message played at an event on the occasion 'Swarnim Vijay Parv' inaugurated today at India Gate lawns in Delhi. This message was recorded on December 7.(Source: Indian Army) pic.twitter.com/trWYx7ogSyDefence minister Rajnath Singh also addressed the celebrations where he remembered India's contributions to the establishment of democracy in Bangladesh. Singh said the celebrations will be kept simple this year in wake of the untimely demise of General Bipin Rawat."It was decided to organise this event in a grand form, but after the untimely demise of the country's first CDS, General Bipin Rawat, it has been decided to mark it with simplicity. On this occasion, I pay my tributes by remembering him too," he added.Also read | 'Bangladesh has progressed on path of development': Rajnath on 50th anniversary of 1971 Liberation WarSwarnim Vijay Parv will be observed from December 12 till December 13. The closing ceremony will be held on December 13, which will be attended by Rajnath Singh and many other dignitaries, including from Bangladesh.General Bipin Rawat, his wife Madhulika Rawat and 11 others died after the helicopter they were travelling in crashed near Tamil Nadu’s Coonoor town. The only survivor of the accident is Group Captain Varun Singh, who remains in critical condition at a military hospital in Bengaluru.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/late-cds-bipin-rawat-s-pre-recorded-message-played-at-swarnim-vijay-parv-event-101639288201213.html
12-12-2021||India||Farmers will leave Delhi protest sites by Dec 15: BKU leader Rakesh Tikait||Farmers will leave all protest sites in Delhi by December 15, Bharatiya Kisan Union (BKU) leader Rakesh Tikait said on Sunday after the year-long agitation against the three farm laws ended this week after the government accepted their demands, including repeal of the legislation.Tikait said he will be leaving the city for a three-day programme in Haryana, Chandigarh and Amritsar to end the protests in those regions as well, according to news agency ANI.The BKU spokesperson also said the Samyukta Kisan Morcha (SKM), an umbrella body of more than 40 farmers' unions, will hold its next meeting on January 15.Thousands of farmers from Punjab, Uttar Pradesh and Haryana laid siege around three Delhi borders—Tikri, Ghazipur and Singhu—in November last year over the three farm laws. The protests were staged to demand the repeal of the three legislation related to the agriculture sector.After the prolonged agitation, which often saw violent episodes in between and a long impasse with the government, farmers withdrew their protests after the Centre formally withdrew the laws in November.The majority of farmers have already left the Delhi borders, Deepak Lamba, vice president of the Jai Kisan Andolan farmers' group, said on Saturday. Around "80 per cent of farmers have left from the Singhu border, around 50 per cent went home from Ghazipur border while from Tikri border around 60 to 70 per cent farmers have returned back to their home," he said as per ANI.On November 19, Prime Minister Narendra Modi announced the Centre will bring necessary bills in the Winter Session of Parliament to repeal the farm laws.Both the Lok Sabha and the Rajya Sabha passed the Farm Laws Repeal Bill on the first day of the Winter Session on November 29. President Ram Nath Kovind also gave his assent to the bill that completes the process of repealing the three farm laws.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/farmers-will-leave-delhi-protest-sites-by-dec-15-bku-leader-rakesh-tikait-101639289796158.html
12-12-2021||India||'Bangladesh has progressed on path of development': Rajnath on 50th anniversary of 1971 Liberation War||Inaugurating the ‘Wall of Fame’ to commemorate the heroes of the 1971 Bangladesh Liberation War at New Delhi's India Gate, Union defence minister Rajnath Singh said on Sunday that India has contributed to the establishment of democracy in Bangladesh and in the last 50 years, the neighbouring country has progressed on the path of development.Singh also inaugurated a two-day ceremony, Swarnim Vijay Parv, to celebrate the 50th anniversary of India's victory against Pakistan in the 1971 war, that also saw the birth of Bangladesh as a nation.“India has contributed to the establishment of democracy in Bangladesh and today we are very happy that in the last 50 years Bangladesh has progressed rapidly on the path of development, which is an inspiration for the rest of the world,” Singh was quoted as saying by news agency ANI."On this day, I bow to the bravery, valour and sacrifice of every soldier of the Indian Army, due to which India won the 1971 war. This country will always be indebted to the sacrifice of all those bravehearts," Singh said while paying tributes to Indian soldiers and the bravehearts of the Mukti Bahini who fought valiantly for the liberation of Bangladesh.Taking a dig at Pakistan on the ocassion, Singh said, “Pakistan wants to promote terrorism in India. The Armed Forces foiled Pakistan's plans in 1971 and now we are working towards eliminating terrorism from the root.”"Sometimes I wonder, what was the fault of our Bengali sisters and brothers? For demanding their rights? Seeking to preserve their art, culture and language? For talking about his proper representation in politics and governance?" Singh was quoted as speaking at the gathering."The injustice and atrocities on our Bengali sisters and brothers were a threat to the entire humanity in one form or the other. In such a situation, it was our Rajdharm, Rashtradharm and military religion that helped in liberating the people of then 'East Pakistan' from that injustice and exploitation," the defence minister outlined.He said the 1971 war is a “classic example” of India's morals, democratic traditions and just treatment. “It will be rarely seen in history that after defeating another country in a war, a country like ours did not express its dominance over it, but handed over the power to its political representative.”Condoling the death of India's Chief of Defence Staff General Bipin Rawat, his wife, and 11 military personnel in a chopper crash last week, the defence minister said the government has decided to mark the event with simplicity.“It was decided to organise this event in a grand form, but after passing away of Gen Bipin Rawat, his wife and 11 other Armed Forces personnel, we've decided to celebrate ‘Swarnim Vijay Parv' with simplicity. IAF's Group Captain Varun Singh is under treatment at Command Hospital Bengaluru. We pray for his early recovery,” Singh said.Weapons and equipment used during the 1971 war have been displayed along with the snippets of major battles at the two-day 'Swarnim Vijay Parv' being celebrated at India Gate to commemorate 50 years of India's historic victory in the 1971 war and the Indo-Bangladesh friendship.The closing ceremony will be held on December 13 which will be attended by Singh, apart from many dignitaries, including from Bangladesh.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/bangladesh-liberation-war-rajnath-singh-swarnim-vijay-parv-1971-indo-pak-war-101639287301262.html
12-12-2021||India||PM Modi to inaugurate Kashi Vishwanath Corridor tomorrow. Here’s how it looks||Prime Minister Narendra Modi will inaugurate the over 50-feet Kashi Vishwanath Corridor, which will connect the ancient Kashi Vishwanath Temple dedicated to Lord Shiva and two ghats on the Ganga in his parliamentary constituency of Varanasi, on Monday.The government has said the ambitious project will complement the Purvanchal Development Corridor and “will be a rich tribute to the cultural & historical patrimony of Kashi.” Known to be PM Modi’s dream project, the Kashi Vishwanath Corridor has been built over a sprawling area of 5,000 hectares and has decongested the temple complex earlier surrounded by buildings on three sides."The temple will be inaugurated on December 13 at an auspicious time,” Nagendra Pandey, a priest at Kashi Vishwanath Temple, told news agency ANI.Also read | Varanasi wears a festive look ahead of KV Corridor inaugurationUttar Pradesh tourism minister Neelkanth Tiwari said the project has been built with ₹399 crore. "It is not only taking forward the dignity of Kashi but also creating a possibility of the boom in the religious tourism of Varanasi. The tourism sector is expected to grow insignificantly," Tiwari said.Since PM Modi laid the foundation of the corridor in March 2019, more than 300 buildings have been bought and demolished to create the space for the project.
12-12-2021||India||Man who provided food to farmers for a year set to reopen his restaurant today||A restaurant owner, who offered langar to farmers at the Singhu border for a year, is now set to reopen the restaurant which was shut due to farmers' protest.Speaking to ANI, Rana Rampal Singh, owner of Golden Hut, said, "I am so happy that I can not express the happiness. The main reason for happiness is that the farmers' have won. Farmers are my family. We will continue the langar till every farmer reaches their home."Rana Rampal Singh was running langar for the farmers spending around ₹4 lakh every day.When the protest ended, Samyukta Kisan Morcha (SKM) had thanked him in a press conference.The majority of farmers left the Delhi borders and returned home on the first day of their withdrawal of year-long agitation against the Centre's three farm laws. On November 19, Prime Minister Narendra Modi announced that the Centre will bring necessary bills in the Winter Session of Parliament beginning later this month to repeal the farm laws.Both the Lok Sabha and the Rajya Sabha passed the Farm Laws Repeal Bill on the first day of the winter session on November 29. President Ram Nath Kovind has also given his assent to the Bill that completes the process of repealing the three farm laws.The farmers were sitting on dharna on the Delhi borders since November 2020 against the three Farm laws.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/man-who-provided-food-to-farmers-for-a-year-set-to-reopen-eatery-today-101639271641717.html
12-12-2021||India||India logs 7,774 Covid-19 infections, active caseload decline to 560-day low||India reported 7,774 new cases of coronavirus disease (Covid-19) and 306 related deaths in the past 24 hours, according to the Union ministry of health and family welfare on Sunday.The fresh numbers have taken the country’s Covid-19 tally to 34,690,510 and the death toll to 475,434, the health ministry’s data showed on Sunday.On Saturday, there were 7,992 cases and 393 deaths.Active cases of Covid-19 in India decreased to 92,281, the lowest in 560 days and active cases comprise 0.27 per cent of the total infections, the lowest since March last year.With 8,464 people recuperating from Covid-19 in the last 24 hours, the recovery rate went up to 98.36 per cent, the highest since March 2020, according to the health ministry.Also read | Omicron cases in India: Maharashtra has highest number, Delhi adds anotherThe daily rise in Covid-19 cases has been recorded below 15,000 for the last 45 days now. The daily positivity rate was recorded at 0.65 per cent—it has been less than 2 per cent for the last 69 days.Under India's nationwide vaccination drive, 132.93 crore vaccine doses have been administered in the country so far, the health ministry said in the press release.Meanwhile, cases of Omicron climbed to 33 after a fully vaccinated person who travelled to Zimbabwe and South Africa before coming to Delhi tested positive for the new strain in the national capital on Saturday.The cases of Omicron have been detected in four states—Karnataka, Gujarat, Rajasthan, Maharashtra—and Delhi.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/india-logs-7-774-covid-19-infections-active-caseload-decline-to-560-day-low-101639283547978.html
12-12-2021||India||After PM Modi's personal handle ‘very briefly compromised’, Twitter reacts||Twitter took “necessary steps to secure” Prime Minister Narendra Modi's personal Twitter handle after it was "very briefly compromised," a spokesperson of the company said on Sunday."We have 24X7 open lines of communication with the PM’s Office and our teams took necessary steps to secure the compromised account as soon as we became aware of this activity,” the Twitter spokesperson said.“Our investigation has revealed that there are no signs of any other impacted accounts at this time,” the spokesperson added.Also read | PM Modi's Twitter handle ‘briefly compromised’: PMO after bitcoin link sharePM Modi's Twitter handle was briefly hacked on Sunday, and a tweet claiming that India has "officially adopted bitcoin as legal tender" was posted. The Prime Minister's Office (PMO) later said the account was immediately secured after the matter was escalated to Twitter."The Twitter handle of PM @narendramodi was very briefly compromised. The matter was escalated to Twitter and the account has been immediately secured. In the brief period that the account was compromised, any Tweet shared must be ignored," it said.
12-12-2021||India||You can now order 'Sattvik certified' vegetarian food on this train. Check details||The 'Shri Ramayana Yatra' train is all set to get the "vegetarian certification" on Sunday, according to a statement issued by the Indian Railway Catering and Tourism Corporation (IRCTC) on Saturday.The train, which will cover various religious places across the country, will get the vegetarian certification from the Sattvik Council of India, a non-profit organisation that has been established to promote the certification of vegetarian food."In order to encourage vegetarian friendly railway services, the SCI in association with Bureau Veritas (global audit partner) will provide ‘vegetarian certification’ to ‘Shri Ramayan Yatra’ on Sunday at Safdarjung railway station,” IRCTC said in a statement, according to news agency PTI.The statement said the vegetarian-friendly railway services are particularly dedicated to observant vegetarians and vegans travelling to holy destinations in the Indian Railways."IRCTC base kitchens, executive lounges and platforms will also be vegetarian certified to ensure vegetarian-friendly travel," it added.According to PTI, the ‘Shri Ramayana Yatra’ rail tour will cover destinations such as Ayodhya, Nandigram, Janakpur, Sitamarhi and Varanasi. The duration of this tour will be 16 nights and 17 days and tourists can board this train at Delhi’s Safdarjung railway station.On November 13, PTI reported IRCTC will promote "vegetarian-friendly travel" by getting some trains "sattvik certified", especially those running on routes connecting religious sites.The Sattvik Council of India, in a statement, said it has tied up with the IRCTC to introduce services that fit the requirements of vegetarians and promotes vegan travelling to holy destinations.In the release, it also said IRCTC has an "understanding" with it and has decided to seek "certification" for some of the trains that go to pilgrimage destinations like the Vande Bharat express to Katra, the end stop for Vaishno Devi temple.This formula is likely to be replicated in around 18 trains, it said.(With agency inputs)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/you-can-now-order-sattvik-certified-vegetarian-food-on-this-train-check-details-101639280933700.html
12-12-2021||India||News updates from HT: Rahul, Priyanka to address rally against inflation today and all the latest news||Here are today’s top news, analysis, and opinion. Know all about the latest news and other news updates from Hindustan Times.rahuRahul, Priyanka to address ‘decisive’ rally against inflation in Jaipur todaySenior Congress leaders Rahul Gandhi and Priyanka Gandhi Vadra will address a rally in Rajasthan’s Jaipur on Sunday against rising prices in the country, which the opposition party has said will be “a decisive fight” against the Prime Minister Narendra Modi-led government at the Centre. Read MoreMaha panchayat will be held from time to time, says Rakesh Tikait as farmers' stir come to endAfter leading a farmers' movement till its successful end against the three farm laws that have now been repealed by the Centre, Bharatiya Kisan Union leader Rakesh Tikait has asserted they won't stop holding maha panchayats. Read MorePM Modi's Twitter handle ‘briefly compromised’: PMO after bitcoin link sharePrime Minister Narendra Modi's Twitter handle was "very briefly compromised" and was secured later, after a link promising a bitcoin giveaway was shared on the account, Prime Minister's Office (PMO) said on Sunday. Read More'Just hope on their next tour, change room is not separated by this division': Ex-AUS bowler reacts to Kohli's sackingFour days after Rohit Sharma was announced as Team India's new ODI captain, the discussion surrounding the timings and the correctness of BCCI's decision to replace Virat Kohli continues to pick up heat. Read MoreSara Ali Khan is beautiful beyond words in floral print suit sets for Atrangi Re promotions: All picsIf there is one style statement in her closet that Sara Ali Khan loves more than anything else, it's the evergreen and classic white printed suit set. The star loves wearing breezy kurtas, whether attending an event or catching a flight or enjoying an off-duty outing in the bay. Read MoreRohan Mehra reveals dad Vinod Mehra’s lessons: 'Good human being doesn’t always translate into most-celebrated actor’Actor Rohan Mehra has said that he did not get to know his father Vinod Mehra in person, but has the late actor’s life convinced him to be a good human being. Read MoreWatch | Indian Army marks 50 years of Tangail drop with mass para jump, dedicates to CDS||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/news-updates-from-ht-rahul-priyanka-to-address-rally-against-inflation-today-and-all-the-latest-news-101639278938052.html
12-12-2021||India||PM Modi to address depositors in bank deposit insurance programme today||Prime Minister Narendra Modi will address depositors on Sunday during a programme in Delhi, his office has said. The programme titled 'Depositors First: Guaranteed Time-bound Deposit Insurance Payment up to ₹5 Lakh' will be held at 12pm, according to the release by the Prime Minister's Office (PMO).Union minister for finance Nirmala Sitharaman, Reserve Bank of India (RBI) Governor ShaktiKanta Das and MoS will also be present at the event."Deposit insurance covers all deposits such as savings, fixed, current, recurring deposits, etc. in all commercial banks, functioning in India. Deposits in State, Central and Primary cooperative banks, functioning in States/Union Territories are also covered," the PMO stated."In a path-breaking reform, bank deposit insurance cover was enhanced from ₹1 lakh to ₹5 lakh," it also said.With deposit insurance coverage of ₹5 lakh per depositor per bank, the number of fully protected accounts at the end of the previous financial year constituted 98.1 per cent of the total number of accounts, as against the international benchmark of 80 per cent, as per the statement.The first tranche of interim payments has been released by the Deposit Insurance and Credit Guarantee Corporation recently, against claims received from depositors of 16 Urban Cooperative Banks which are under restrictions by RBI.Payout of over ₹1,300 crore has been made to alternate bank accounts of over 1 lakh depositors against their claims, the PMO also said in the statement.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/pm-modi-to-address-depositors-in-bank-deposit-insurance-programme-today-101639278727483.html
12-12-2021||India||1 terrorist killed in encounter in J-K's Pulwama district, say police||An unidentified terrorist was killed in an ongoing encounter between security forces and terrorists on Sunday in the Baragam area of Awantipora town in Jammu and Kashmir's Pulwama district, police said.“Awantipora Encounter Update: 01 unidentified terrorist killed. Operation going on,” the Kashmir Zone Police shared the update on Twitter.A police official told news agency PTI that security forces launched the operation in the Baragam area after they received specific inputs about the presence of terrorists there.#AwantiporaEncounterUpdate: 01 unidentified #terrorist killed. #Operation going on. Further details shall follow. @JmuKmrPolice https://t.co/Uz8niDLv2dAs the forces were conducting searches, the terrorists fired upon them, the official added. The exchange of fire is currently going on and more details are awaited.Also Read| ‘40 civilians killed in terror-related incidents in J&K this year’: Govt in Lok SabhaSunday morning's operation comes three days after three terrorists of the Lashkar-e-Toiba (LeT)- The Resistance Front (TRF) were gunned down by security forces in Shopian on Wednesday. According to the police, these terrorists were part of groups involved in several terror crime cases including attacks on security forces and civilian atrocities.Jammu and Kashmir has been recently witnessing a slew of attacks on civilians, the majority of whom are from other states of India. On November 30, the Union government informed Parliament as many as 40 civilians have been killed and 72 others were injured in terrorist attacks till November 15 this year.Addressing the Lok Sabha, minister of state for home affairs Nityanand Rai also informed that 35 personnel of security forces have been killed and 86 were injured till November 15.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/1-terrorist-killed-in-encounter-in-j-k-s-pulwama-district-say-police-101639276743860.html
12-12-2021||India||Maha panchayat will be held from time to time, says Rakesh Tikait as farmers' stir come to end||After leading a farmers' movement till its successful end against the three farm laws that have now been repealed by the Centre, Bharatiya Kisan Union leader Rakesh Tikait has asserted they won't stop holding maha panchayats."Every year, a 10-day Kisan Andolan Mela will be held. Maha panchayat will be held from time to time to discuss farmers' issues," Tikait told reporters on Saturday, according to news agency ANI.Rakesh Tikait also acknowledged the role played by the media in highlighting the farmers' protest, suggesting it was also responsible for putting pressure on the government to backtrack on the contentious laws, one of the many demands farmers have been putting forth for over a year.Also read | Farmers’ ‘fateh yatra’ convoy welcomed with cheers, flower showers, sweetsPrime Minister Narendra Modi on November 19 announced the Centre will bring necessary bills in the Winter Session of Parliament to repeal the farm laws following a massive farmers' protest that had been going on various borders of Delhi for nearly 13 months.On November 29, Parliament passed the Farm Laws Repeal Bill on the first day of the Winter Session. President Ram Nath Kovind also gave his assent to the bill that completed the process of repealing the three farm laws.The farmers refused to end their protest, urging the government to fulfil their other demands that included a legal guarantee on minimum support price (MSP) and withdrawal of police cases against them.Also read | Normal traffic to resume in a few days as farmers vacate bordersThe Centre accepted their demands and gave a written assurance for the same. Following which the farmers decided to end their stir and said they will go back home on December 11 from the protest sites at Delhi borders.However, the farmers will hold a review meeting on January 15. "If the government does not fulfil its promises, we could resume our agitation," the SKM said in its statement.The majority of farmers left the Delhi borders and returned to their homes on Saturday. A large group of farmers will vacate the Ghazipur Border at 8am on Sunday, Tikait said.“People have started vacating already, it will take 4-5 days. I will leave on December 15,” ANI quoted Tikait as saying on Saturday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/maha-panchayat-will-be-held-from-time-to-time-says-rakesh-tikait-as-farmers-stir-come-to-end-101639274888029.html
12-12-2021||India||Omicron cases in India: Maharashtra has highest number, Delhi adds another||Omicron cases in India have risen to 33 with Maharastra reporting the highest number of infections of the latest variant of the coronavirus. Delhi, Rajasthan, Gujarat and Karnataka have also reported cases of the new coronavirus variant, according to local officials.According to the Maharashtra government, 17 cases of Omicron have been reported in the state so far, out of which seven patients have been discharged from the hospital after they recovered from the coronavirus disease (Covid-19).Meanwhile, a one-and-a-half-year-old girl, who tested positive for Omicron in the Pimpri Chinchwad area of the Pune district of Maharashtra, has been discharged from the hospital after recovering from the infection, health officials said on Saturday.Also read | Omicron variant causing milder Covid-19 than delta: South African doctorsA three-year-old boy, who was also infected with the new strain and among the four new patients in Pimpri Chinchwad Municipal Corporation (PCMC) area, is asymptomatic and keeping well. The three others—two men and a woman—are all contacts of the Indian origin woman and her two daughters from Nigeria, who were earlier found infected with the Omicron variant after they arrived. Also read | ICMR team designs kit to detect Omicron variant in 2 hours"Barring one female, who had a dry cough, all the patients, including the baby, are asymptomatic and keeping fine. The woman, who had a dry cough, also tested negative in the repeat test and was given discharge along with three others. The other two females tested positive in the repeat test and that is why they are currently in hospital, but they are also keeping fine," an official told news agency PTI. The only Omicron patient in Pune city has tested negative and was discharged on Friday. He had returned to Pune from Finland, officials said.Omicron cases in DelhiOn Saturday, Delhi reported the second case of Omicron after a 35-year-old man, who travelled to Zimbabwe and South Africa, tested positive for the latest variant after reading India.The man belongs to Andhra Pradesh and was admitted to the LNJP Hospital in the national capital on December 5. The fully vaccinated patient has complained of weakness.Also read | Monitor 27 districts very closely for Covid: CentreThe LNJP Hospital, designated for the treatment of patients infected with the Omicron variant of the coronavirus, currently has 35 patients. Till Friday night, there were 31 patients admitted to the hospital while four patients were brought there on Saturday, news agency PTI reported citing people familiar with the developments.Last Sunday, a 37-year-old fully vaccinated man who arrived in Delhi from Tanzania became the first patient of Omicron in the national capital. The Ranchi resident travelled from Tanzania to Doha and from there to Delhi on a Qatar Airways flight on December 2.He stayed in Johannesburg, South Africa, for a week. The person has mild symptoms.Omicron cases in Rajasthan, GujaratIn Rajasthan, nine people infected with the Omicron variant of the coronavirus have also tested negative and were discharged from a government hospital on Friday.Among the nine cases in Rajasthan were four members of a family, who arrived from South Africa on November 25, and the five people they came in contact with.They tested positive for Covid-19 on December 1, and genome sequencing confirmed three days later they were infected with the highly transmissible Omicron variant. Seven of the nine were fully vaccinated.Also read | Omicron cases in India will mostly be asymptomatic, says expert. Here's whyIn Gujarat’s Jamnagar, there have been three cases of Omicron after two contacts of the 72-year-old Zimbabwe-based NRI tested positive for the variant. Of the two Omicron patients in Karnataka, one has recovered and another has left the country.India’s tally of the coronavirus disease rose to 3,46,682,736 after 7,992 people tested positive, according to the Union ministry of health and family welfare on Saturday. The daily rise in Covid-19 cases has been recorded below 15,000 for the last 44 days now.The death toll mounted to 475,128 with the addition of 393 fatalities, the health ministry also said. The number of active cases declined to 93,277, the lowest in 559 days, the ministry also said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/omicron-cases-in-india-maharashtra-has-highest-number-delhi-adds-another-101639274753288.html
12-12-2021||India||Rahul, Priyanka to address ‘decisive’ rally against inflation in Jaipur today||Senior Congress leaders Rahul Gandhi and Priyanka Gandhi Vadra will address a rally in Rajasthan’s Jaipur on Sunday against rising prices in the country, which the opposition party has said will be “a decisive fight” against the Prime Minister Narendra Modi-led government at the Centre.State chief minister Ashok Gehlot and former Congress leaders from Rajasthan are also expected to attend the "Mehengai Hatao Mahararally," according to a report by PTI.Whether Congress president Sonia Gandhi will also join the rally will be known on Sunday itself, party's Rajasthan in-charge Ajay Maken told reporters on Saturday.Senior Congress leader Randeep Surjewala dubbed the rally as "great war against inflation,”. “It will be a decisive fight against the Modi government, which is driven by overweening arrogance of power and is in deep slumber,” he said on Saturday."The echo of the rally will be heard in the entire country,” he added.Surjewala also slammed the BJP government at the Centre and said “every decision of the Modi government is anti-people." "Small and medium industries collapsed. Neither Naxalism, terrorism ended nor black currency was eliminated, the unemployment rate in the country is 10 per cent. Defeat Modi and BJP to get rid of rising inflation," he added.According to reports, the rally was planned to be held in Delhi but was later moved to Rajasthan after the central government denied permission.Speaking about the health protocol in view of the rising cases of Omicron variant of the coronavirus, Congress’ Rajasthan unit president Govind Singh Dotasra said mandatory precautions will be taken according to the mandate of the health ministry. Chairs have been arranged, masks will be provided and the temperature of those attending will be checked, he also informed.The senior Congress leader also highlighted rising prices of fuel and cooking oil, and said, "petrol and diesel have crossed ₹100 per litre, cooking oil costs ₹200 per litre, tomatoes cost ₹80-100 per kg." "Only 10 people in the country have 57 per cent of the total money. Rich are getting richer and poor are getting poorer," he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/rahul-priyanka-to-address-decisive-rally-against-inflation-in-jaipur-today-101639270283035.html
12-12-2021||India||Omicron impact to be less severe on India’s economy, says report||The new Omicron variant of Covid-19 may pose “a fresh risk” to the ongoing global recovery, but its impact would be “less severe” for India due to the increasing pace of vaccination in the country, a finance ministry report said on Saturday, expressing confidence in robust recovery of the domestic economy in the third and the fourth quarters of the financial year that ends in March.India’s economic recovery is expected to gain further strength in the remaining two quarters of the current financial year, as evident from 19 among 22 high frequency indicators (HFIs) in September, October and November crossing their pre-pandemic levels in the corresponding months of 2019, the ministry said in its monthly economic review for November.“India’s economic recovery is expected to gain further strength in the remaining quarters of the financial year on the back of upbeat market sentiments, rapid vaccination coverage, strong external demand and continuous policy support by Government and RBI (Reserve Bank of India),” the report said. “However, the new Omicron variant of Covid-19 poses a challenge to the sustained recovery, and Covid-19 appropriate behaviour is warranted.”“That said, the economy is better prepared to work with Covid, with rapidly growing vaccination coverage and lessons learnt from second wave in containing the contagion,” it added.The government is cautious about the Omicron variant, but with rapid vaccination and strong Covid-19 protocols, it is confident about sustained growth momentum, finance minister Nirmala Sitharaman said last week at the Hindustan Times Leadership Summit.“I’m still very hopeful that this year’s GDP (gross domestic product) numbers would be very encouraging, and we’d still be the fastest growing economy in the world,” Sitharaman said on November 4.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/omicron-impact-to-be-less-severe-on-india-s-economy-says-report-101639270153752.html
12-12-2021||NA||BREAKING: Kerala reports first case of Omicron, says state health minister||Welcome to hindustantimes.com live updates platform where you can find breaking news from India and across the world. Find fast updates about the latest news as it breaks.Follow all the updates here:‘Kashi Vishwanath temple will be presented as a new Dham’Kashi Vishwanath temple will be presented as a new 'Dham' to the nation and world. It will be inaugurated by Prime Minister Narendra Modi tomorrow, whose vision and guidance have played a key role. This 'Dham' will give a new, global identity to Varanasi: Yogi Adityanath, Uttar Pradesh chief ministerActress arrested in Mumbai for assaulting minor, says policeA 25-year- old actress arrested by Versova Police for assaulting a minor house-help for delay in work. As per the victim, the accused beat her up with sandals: Mumbai Police704 new Covid-19 cases and 16 deaths in MaharashtraMaharashtra logs 704 new Covid-19 cases, 699 recoveries and 16 deaths. Total tally rises to 6,643,883 including 6,492,504 recoveries and 141,259 fatalities.Mamata Banerjee arrives in GoaWest Bengal chief minister and Trinamool Congress (TMC) supremo Mamata Banerjee arrives in Goa for 2-day visit, on December 13 and 14.Trains running late at Mumbai's Dahisar stationDue to technical reasons up and down trains on both slow and fast lines are running late by 10-15 minutes at Dahisar station: Western RailwayKerala's first Omicron case reported from KochiFirst case of Omicron reported in Kochi, Kerala. The concerned returned from the UK to Kochi on December 6. He tested Covid-19 positive on December 8: Veena George, Kerala health ministerKerala: 3777 new Covid-19 cases and 34 deathsKerala logs 3777 new Covid-19 cases, 3856 recoveries and 34 deaths. Active cases at 38,361 while toll rises to 42,967.IAF chopper crash: Tributes paid to Havildar Satpal RaiMilitary personnel pay tribute to Havaldar Satpal Rai at 158 Base Hospital in West Bengal's Bagdogra.‘We organise meetings wherever people call us’: Rakesh TikaitWe organise meetings wherever people call us and is required. We are going to Wardha, Maharashtra on December 19 and to Tamil Nadu on December 17: Rakesh Tikait, Bharatiya Kisan Union (BKU) spokesperson and Samyukt Kisan Morcha (SKM) leaderPolice identify terrorist killed in J&K encounterThe terrorist killed in today's Awantipora encounter has been identified as Sameer Ahmad Tantray. He had links with the JeM and was part of groups involved in several terror crime cases. Incriminating materials including arms and ammunition were recovered: Jammu and Kashmir PoliceIAF chopper crash: Lt Col Harjinder Singh cremated in DelhiLast rites of Lieutenant Colonel Harjinder Singh, staff officer to late CDS General Bipin Rawat, held with full military honours in Delhi's Brar Square.Nagpur reports its first Omicron caseNagpur's first case of Omicron found in a 40-year-old man, says municipal commissioner Radhakrishnan B.Farmers protest: Traffic restored at Tikri borderTraffic restored on both carriageways of Delhi-Haryana Tikri border as farmers leave after suspension of their agitation.3 ‘suspected cases’ of Omicron in PakistanPakistan's National Institute of Health (NIH) has said it is analysing three ‘suspected cases’ of the Omicron Covid-19 variant. The sample results will be received by Monday, an NIH official said.IAF chopper crash: MP govt announces financial aid for Lance Naik's kinWe are proud that Naik Jitendra Kumar was born in Madhya Pradesh. He was a very brave soldier. His family is my family now. We will give Rs.1 crore to his family and his daughter Sunita will get a job. The village school will be named after him: Shivraj Singh Chouhan, chief ministerIndia's Omicron tally climbs to 36, latest case of variant reported from KarnatakaThird case of Omicron detected in Karnataka. A 34-year-old returnee from South Africa has tested positive. He is isolated & being treated in a govt hospital. 5 primary and 15 secondary contacts traced and their samples sent for testing: Karnataka Health Minister Dr Sudhakar K‘Careful while chasing high returns': RBI Governor to depositorsReserve Bank of India (RBI) Governor Shaktikanta Das cautioned depositors to be careful while chasing high returns as it comes with higher risk.Das said high returns come with higher risk, so depositors should be discerning enough while chasing returns. He was speaking at the 'Depositors First: Guaranteed Time-bound Deposit Insurance Payment up to ₹5 lakh.' National Omicron tally climbs to 35After Chandigarh, Andhra Pradesh records first case of Omicron variant. WIth this the national tally has climbed to 35.20-year-old man from Italy tests positive for Omicron: Chandigarh health departmentA 20-year-old man from Italy, who landed in India on Nov 22 and was diagnosed with Covid on December 1, has tested positive for Omicron variant. He is fully vaccinated with Pfizer vaccine. He has been tested for Covid-19 again today and the report is awaited, news agency ANI reported  citing Chandigarh health department.UK, French foreign ministers discuss 'challenging aggressors like Russia'UK Foreign Secretary Liz Truss on Saturday discussed international and bilateral issues with French Foreign Minister Jean-Yves Le Drian in Liverpool, during the G7 foreign ministers' meeting. Late CDS General Bipin Rawat's pre-recorded message played at an event in Delhi#WATCH Late CDS General Bipin Rawat's pre-recorded message played at an event on the occasion 'Swarnim Vijay Parv' inaugurated today at India Gate lawns in Delhi. This message was recorded on December 7.(Source: Indian Army) pic.twitter.com/trWYx7ogSyLate CDS General Bipin Rawat's pre-recorded message played at an event on the occasion 'Swarnim Vijay Parv' inaugurated today at India Gate lawns in Delhi. This message was recorded on December 7.Very happy to seen Bangladesh on path of development: Rajnath SinghIndia has contributed to the establishment of democracy in Bangladesh. Today we are very happy that in the last 50 years Bangladesh has progressed on the path of development, says Union minister of defence Rajnath Singh at inaugural ceremony of ‘Swarnim Vijay Parv’ in DelhiIndia reports 7,774 Covid-19 infections in last 24 hoursIndia continues downward trend in daily Covid-19 tally with 7,774 infections. Active cases decline to 92,281. ‘No signs of any other impact': Twitter after PM Modi's account is ‘briefly compromised’We have 24x7 open lines of communication with the PM’s Office and our teams took necessary steps to secure the compromised account as soon as we became aware of this activity. Our probe revealed that there're no signs of any other impacted accounts at this time: Twitter spokespersonOmicron cases in India: Maharashtra has highest number, Delhi adds anotherOmicron cases in India have risen to 33 with Maharastra reporting the highest number of infections of the latest variant of the coronavirus. Delhi, Rajasthan, Gujarat and Karnataka have also reported cases of the new coronavirus variant, according to local officials. Read MoreOne terrorist killed in ongoing encounter in AwantiporaOne terrorist neutralized in an ongoing encounter between security forces and terrorists in Baragam area of Awantipora, says IGP Kashmir Vijay Kumar.Encounter breaks out between terrorists and security forces in Awantipora town of J-KEncounter has started at Baragam area of Awantipora in Pulwama district, Jammu and Kashmir. Police and security forces are on the job. Further details shall follow, tweets police. Rahul, Priyanka to address ‘decisive’ rally against inflation in Jaipur todaySenior Congress leaders Rahul Gandhi and Priyanka Gandhi Vadra will address a rally in Rajasthan’s Jaipur on Sunday against rising prices in the country, which the opposition party has said will be “a decisive fight” against the Prime Minister Narendra Modi-led government at the Centre.PM Modi's Twitter handle ‘briefly compromised’: PMO after bitcoin link sharePrime Minister Narendra Modi's Twitter handle was "very briefly compromised" and was secured later, after a link promising a bitcoin giveaway was shared on the account, Prime Minister's Office (PMO) said on Sunday. Read More||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/breaking-news-live-december-12-2021-101639269733889.html
12-12-2021||India||PM Modi's Twitter handle ‘briefly compromised’: PMO after bitcoin link share||Prime Minister Narendra Modi's Twitter handle was "very briefly compromised" and was secured later, after a link promising a bitcoin giveaway was shared on the account, Prime Minister's Office (PMO) said on Sunday."The Twitter handle of PM @narendramodi was very briefly compromised. The matter was escalated to Twitter and the account has been immediately secured. In the brief period that the account was compromised, any Tweet shared must be ignored," PMO tweeted.
12-12-2021||India||TMC targets Tripura govt after it tweets poster with Kolkata flyover||A slogan competition on following driving rules in Tripura that used a photo of a Kolkata flyover earned the ruling Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) government brickbats from the Opposition.“Participate in the Motor Vehicle Driving Regulations Slogan Writing Competition for a chance to win a cash prize of Rs. 5,000 /- Visit : mygov.in/task/ slogan-wr... @tripura_cmo #Roadsafety,” the Tripura government tweeted from its official handle that had a poster featuring a Kolkata flyover. The tweet has since been deleted.The Trinamool Congress (TMC) party took to Twitter accusing the BJP of stealing Bengal’s achievements. “Is BJP Tripura claiming that these are their roads? Are there no well-maintained roads in Tripura? Has (chief minister) Biplab Kumar Deb really neglected development to THIS EXTENT?” TMC Tripura tweeted. “Ridiculous how BJP repeatedly steals from the #BengalModel to showcase Mamata Banerjee’s developmental work as theirs!”In September, a similar controversy erupted on social media after the BJP-ruled Uttar Pradesh government ran a newspaper advertisement with photographs of a Kolkata flyover.The state government defended the move. The poster used the photograph as it was a nationwide contest, an information technology department official said. “It’s an all-India level contest and not a state-specific one. It was not considered from where the picture was taken while designing the graphics,” the official said.The poster aimed at showing congested roads to specify the need to follow driving regulations, a BJP leader said. “The image used was to show people about the congested roads and necessity of maintaining road safety,” BJP spokesperson Subrata Chakraborty said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/tmc-targets-tripura-govt-after-it-tweets-poster-with-kolkata-flyover-101639260971485.html
12-12-2021||India||Uttarakhand assembly passes bill to abolish Char Dham shrine board||The Uttarakhand legislative assembly on Saturday passed a bill to abolish the Char Dham Devasthanam Management Board through voice vote.The move comes days after the state government announced the withdrawal of the contentious Char Dham Devasthanam Management Act, which brought four Hindu shrines of Badrinath, Kedarnath, Gangotri, Yamunotri and 49 other temples under the purview of a board, and against which several priests and religious organisations have been protesting since last year.The law, which was introduced by the previous Trivendra Singh Rawat-led government in 2019, allowed the board to act as the highest governing body, to look after the shrines while framing policies and sanctioning expenditure.Priests of the Chardham — Kedarnath, Badrinath, Gangotri and Yamunotri — opposed the board, calling it an infringement upon their traditional rights over the Himalayan temples.In 2019, the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) government, led by Rawat, passed the Uttarakhand Char Dham Shrine Management Bill, 2019.In July, new chief minister Pushkar Singh Dhami formed a five-member committee to look into the matter amid continuous protests by the priests. Based on the recommendations of the panel which submitted its report last week, the state government decided to repeal the Act.“Our government has taken a decision to take back the Char Dham Devasthanam Management Board Act,” Dhami said on November 30.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/uttarakhand-assembly-passes-bill-to-abolish-char-dham-shrine-board-101639260432496.html
12-12-2021||India||Now, Manipur CM backs Afspa repeal||Manipur chief minister and Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) leader N Biren Singh on Saturday said he favoured the withdrawal of the Armed Forces (Special Powers) Act (Afspa) from the North-East.The gunning down of 13 civilians in Nagaland by forces on December 4 has renewed the demand for the withdrawal of Afspa from the region. The act, which grants special powers to the forces to maintain public order in “disturbed areas”, has been a contentious issue in the North-East with civil society members saying that it gives personnel impunity to carry out excesses and forces saying that it helps them maintain order in restive areas. Nagaland CM Neiphiu Rio and Meghalaya CM Conrad Sangma have already demanded that the act should be repealed.“Removing Afspa is our stand. But we need to create a better understanding with the Centre. Prior to taking a decision, we need to talk, we need to discuss (with the central leaders) to reach an understanding,” he said.The protests against the civilian killings and Afspa continued in the region on Saturday, with sit-in protests being held at Manipur’s at Chandel, Senapati, Tamenglong and Ukhrul.“We are demanding the withdrawal of this act [Afspa] at the earliest,” Kho John, president of the United Naga Council said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/now-manipur-cm-backs-afspa-repeal-101639260019046.html
12-12-2021||India||5 drone schools to be set up in MP: Scindia||Union civil aviation minister Jyotiraditya Scindia on Saturday said five schools will be opened across Madhya Pradesh to train youngsters in drone technology and open new employment opportunities for them.Announcing that the schools will be opened in Gwalior, Bhopal, Indore, Jabalpur and Satna, the minister, while speaking at the Drone Fair in Gwalior, said: “Through these schools, training in drone technology will be given so that the youth get employment.”Scindia called drone tech “revolutionary” and said that it was a means to “convert poverty into prosperity”.“It’s Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s vision that the technology should be promoted to bring change in the lives of the people… The drone technology is proving to be revolutionary in every field, including defence, agriculture and health,” he said.In August, the civil aviation ministry notified the national drone policy, making it significantly easier for people and companies to own and operate drones, while also streamlining a labyrinthine certification process for manufacturers, importers and users, in a move that aims to boost future tech.Stating that the Centre was working towards promoting the technology on drones, Scindia said: “The rules have been simplified to promote drone technology. Earlier, where companies had to fill 25 forms, that number has been reduced to five in the process of licensing and registration.”Madhya Pradesh chief minister Shivraj Singh Chouhan, who also took part in the fair along with Union agriculture minister Narendra Singh Tomar, said the state will use drones to spread its welfare programmes.“Madhya Pradesh will emerge as a leading state by using drone technology in the field of development and welfare. Drones are such a revolutionary technology that can be used for public welfare and good governance,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/5-drone-schools-to-be-set-up-in-mp-scindia-101639259670126.html
12-12-2021||India||Modi calls on farmers to adopt, encourage zero-budget farming||Farmers should adopt natural farming to save costs and increase yields, Prime Minister Narendra Modi said on Saturday and invited farmers to join a mega programme on “natural farming” on December 16.Addressing a rally in Balrampur after inaugurating the ₹9,800-crore project, aimed at providing assured water for irrigation to over 1.4 million hectares and benefit about 2.9 million farmers, the PM said natural farming saves earth and water and the crop produced through it is also better.“I invite farmers across the country for a mega farmers’ programme on natural farming on December 16. Here, you will learn about zero-budget farming, which saves water and gives better yield too,” he added.On November 19, when PM Narendra Modi announced his decision to scrap the three contentious farm laws, he also talked about promoting zero-budget natural farming to boost farm incomes.Zero-budget natural farming is a technique of farming that aims to bring down input costs by making farmers rely on natural inputs, shifting away from agricultural chemicals, such as pesticides and fertilisers.The concept behind the farming technique is that 98% of nutrients required by crops for photosynthesis — carbon dioxide, nitrogen, water, and solar energy — are already available free from nature. The remaining 1.5-2% of nutrients can be derived from the soil.Noting that Padma awardee Subhash Palekar of Maharashtra had initiated the idea of zero-budget natural farming, Modi said it saves earth and water and the crop produced through it is also better.In her 2019-2020 Union Budget speech,  finance minister Nirmala Sitharaman, too, emphasised the idea of zero-budget natural farming, and urged the farmers to “go back to basics” and “replicate this innovative model (which) can help in doubling our farmers’ income”.At the Balrampur event, Modi further highlighted his government’s commitment to the welfare of farmers, asserting that the Modi government is the first to take care of small farmers by connecting them with government benefits.The PM Kisan Samman Nidhi, alternative income streams in fishery, dairy and bee culture and opportunities in ethanol are some of the steps being taken. In the past four-and-a-half years, ethanol worth ₹12,000 crore has been purchased from Uttar Pradesh itself, the prime minister said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/modi-calls-on-farmers-to-adopt-encourage-zero-budget-farming-101639259052610.html
12-12-2021||India||Odia IAF officer who died in Coonoor chopper crash cremated with state honours||The mortal remains of junior warrants officer of the Indian Air Force, Rana Pratap Das were consigned to flames with full state honours at his native village in Angul district on Saturday evening.Das was with CDS General Bipin Rawat, his wife and 11 others in the ill-fated Mi-17V5 chopper that crashed near Coonoor on December 8.In the presence of family members, officials of the IAF and hundreds of people, Das’s body was consigned to flames at a crematorium at his native Krushnachandrapur village.Before the cremation, a gun salute was given by the armed forces to the Tricolour-wrapped body of Das at the crematorium amid chants of ‘Rana Pratap Amar Rahe’.Earlier in the day, the mortal remains of Das were brought to the Biju Patnaik International Airport in Bhubaneswar from New Delhi. The body was then carried in a special vehicle in a procession to the 120 Battalion of Territorial Army premises in Bhubaneswar.A Guard of Honour was given followed by a tribute by chief minister Naveen Patnaik, DGP, senior armed forces personnel and political leaders. The body was then taken in an ambulance escorted by an armed forces vehicle and district police to Krushnachandrapur village.Political leaders cutting across party lines along with the hundreds of people were present at the crematorium.Born in 1987, Das joined IAF in June 2006 and was transferred to Coimbatore three months ago. The 34-year-old was married in 2017 to Shivangi, a dentist by profession. They have a 19-month-old son.A grieving Srivatsa Das, father of the deceased officer, said his son had promised to come home next month. “He was home last Dussehra. I never thought that I would see his body a few months later,” said Srivatsa Das. A special memorial is being built in the village for Das by Mahanadi Coalfields Ltd. People of Krushnachandrapur have demanded that the road between Talabeda and Krishnachandrapur be named after him.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/odia-iaf-officer-who-died-in-coonoor-chopper-crash-cremated-with-state-honours-101639250383055.html
12-12-2021||India||Bodies of all soldiers killed in Coonoor helicopter crash identified||The bodies of 10 more soldiers, among the 13 people killed in the December 8 Coonoor helicopter crash, were identified on Saturday, officials familiar with the development said.While mortal remains of six of them, identified by Saturday morning, were flown to their hometowns in special flights; the bodies of the remaining four, identified later in the day through DNA testing, will be handed over to their families on Sunday, the officials said.The personnel whose bodies were flown home on Saturday are Wing Commander Prithvi Singh Chauhan, the pilot of the Mi-17V5 that crashed, Squadron Leader Kuldeep Singh, the co-pilot, Junior Warrant Officer Rana Pratap Das, Junior Warrant Officer Arakkal Pradeep, Lance Naik Vivek Kumar and Lance Naik B Sai Teja. Their mortal remains were flown to Agra, Pilani, Bhubaneswar, Sulur, Gaggal and Bengaluru, respectively.The bodies that were identified later in the day were those of Lieutenant Colonel Harjinder Singh, Havildar Satpal Rai, Naik Gursewak Singh and Naik Jitendra Kumar. While Lieutenant Colonel Singh’s funeral is likely to be conducted at Brar Square in Delhi Cantonment on Sunday, the remains of the other three soldiers will be flown to their hometowns.The 13 people killed in the crash included India’s first chief of defence staff (CDS) General Bipin Rawat, his wife Madhulika Raje Singh Rawat and the CDS’s defence assistant Brigadier LS Lidder. Lieutenant Colonel Singh was Rawat’s staff officer.Rawat, his wife and Lidder were on Friday cremated with military honours at Brar Square in two separate solemn ceremonies steeped in military tradition, with top government officials attending the heart-wrenching final send-off and thousands of men, women and children lining the road leading to the crematorium to pay their last respects.While Kritika and Tarini lit the funeral pyre of their parents, Bipin and Madhulika, 16-year-old Aashna performed the last rites of her father Lakhbinder Singh Lidder in ceremonies filled with emotion, honour and pride. In a picture of courage and dignity, Lidder’s wife Geetika was seen comforting Kritika and Tarini at the funeral, even though her own husband was cremated at Brar Square a few hours earlier and his pyre was still burning.The sole survivor of the crash, Group Captain Varun Singh, is still on life support at the IAF Command Hospital in Bengaluru. Defence minister Rajnath Singh is monitoring the group captain’s condition, and is in touch with his family. The minister spoke to Varun’s father, Colonel KP Singh, on Saturday, officials said.Air Marshal Manavendra Singh, who is the Air Officer Commanding-in-Chief of the IAF’s Bengaluru-based Training Command, is heading the inquiry into the crash.A helicopter pilot, Manavendra Singh has logged close to 7,000 flying hours in his 39-year career and operated in challenging sectors such as Siachen, the North-east, Uttarakhand, the western sector and the Democratic Republic of Congo.Rawat was on a visit to the prestigious Defence Services Staff College (DSSC) at Wellington in Tamil Nadu to address the faculty and student officers there.The Mi-17V5 helicopter took off from the Sulur air base at 11.48 am on Wednesday, and it was scheduled to land at the helipad at the Wellington golf club at 12.15 pm. The air traffic control at Sulur, however, lost contact with the helicopter at 12.08 pm, 20 minutes after it took off. The chopper was seven minutes away from its destination.The Coonoor crash was of one of the worst air accidents involving India’s top military brass and a setback to the ongoing military reforms in the country, the biggest since Independence. Rawat was spearheading the military’s theaterisation drive to enhance the effectiveness of the armed forces and reshape the conduct of future operations.The CDS’s shocking demise will have implications for the military reforms, including theaterisation, and the government will have to move swiftly to announce a succession plan. Army chief General Manoj Mukund Naravane is the senior-most military officer in the country after the CDS’s demise. Rawat survived a Cheetah crash in Dimapur on February 3, 2015. He was a lieutenant general at that time.
12-12-2021||India||TTD to construct third ghat road for hill temple||Tirumala Tirupati Devasthanams (TTD), which manages the temple of Lord Venkateshwara on Tirumala in Andhra Pradesh’s Chittoor district, has decided to construct a third ghat road from Tirupati to the hill shrine.The decision was taken at the meeting of the TTD trust board held at Annamayya Bhavan in Tirumala on Saturday. At present, there are two ghat roads – the first ghat road is meant for bringing devotees from Tirumala down the hill to Tirupati while the second ghat road is meant for the upward journey.Recently, the second ghat road suffered heavy damages due to landslides triggered by heavy rains at several places, forcing the TTD authorities to close the route for traffic.“It would take at least another three weeks to restore the traffic on this ghat road. Till such time, the traffic is being diverted through a link road. Experts from IIT Delhi and IIT Madras have come up with a series of suggestions to prevent landslides in future,” TTD chairman Y V Subba Reddy told reporters after the trust board meeting.He said the TTD approved the restoration of the damaged second ghat road for ₹3.95 crore and Srivarimettu footpath, which was destroyed completely due to heavy rains, for ₹3.60 crore.To overcome such problems in future, the TTD trust board decided to construct a third ghat road that would not only ease the traffic to Tirumala but also avoid accidents.Reddy said the TTD board also decided to restore the centuries-old trekking route for the sake of pilgrims. “It was used by saint-composer Annamacharya for trekking the hill to reach the temple of Lord Venkateshwara. The proposal was mooted during the regime of former chief minister YS Rajasekhar Reddy in late ‘2000. Now, it is going to be materialised,” he said.The TTD trust board also decided to renovate seven major temples, which were destroyed during the massive floods caused by the breach of the Annnamayya project on the Cheyyeru river at Rajampet in Kadapa district, which witnessed heavy rains on the night of November 18.The board decided to provide “Vaikuntha Dwara Darshanam” for 10 days to all pilgrims similar to Brahmotsava Darshanam, from January 13. Similar arrangements would be made at the temples in SC/ST/BC/fishermen coloniesThe TTD decided to increase the darshan quota and also resume a limited number of Arjita Sevas (paid services to the god) in the New Year due to the decrease in the intensity of Covid-19. “We shall send a proposal on the same seeking permission from State and Central governments,” Reddy said.The TTD approved a proposal to seek donations to construct a full-fledged Paediatric Hospital in Tirupati. The donors would get the privilege of having a darshan of the Lord Venkateshwara in the mornings and evenings.The TTD board, among other decisions, decided to declare Anjana Devi temple premises in the Akasa Ganga area as Hanuman Janmasthalam and develop it for the sake of pilgrims with the help of donors.
12-12-2021||India||Madras high court stays Tamil Nadu govt directive debarring use of old vehicles by driving schools||The Madras high court on Saturday stayed the operation of an order of the Tamil Nadu government debarring the of use over eight-year old vehicles by driving schools in the state.Justice R Suresh Kumar granted the injunction while passing interim orders on a writ petition from the Tamil Nadu Federation of Driving Schools.The court granted an order of injunction restraining the respondents from insisting upon the members of the petitioner federation merely because those vehicles have completed eight years life period in consonance with the impugned clause in a circular dated November 11, 2011, for a period of four weeks, it said.“Having heard the submissions made by the counsel for the petitioner and after having gone through the relevant provisions referred to above under the Motor Vehicles Act and the Rules made therein and also having gone through the impugned clause...of the circular issued in 2011, this court feels that some interim arrangement can be made.””Accordingly, this Court is inclined to grant an order of injunction restraining the respondents and their men, from insisting upon the members of petitioner’s federation to replace their existing vehicles used or pressed into service merely because those vehicles have completed eight years life period in consonance with the impugned Clause 8.1.1 of the Circular No.62 of 2011 dated November 11,” the bench said||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/madras-high-court-stays-tamil-nadu-govt-directive-debarring-use-of-old-vehicles-by-driving-schools-101639248767002.html
12-12-2021||India||General Rawat’s daughters immerse parents’ ashes in Haridwar’s Ganga||A day after the cremation took place in Delhi, Chief of Defence Staff General Bipin Rawat and his wife Madhulika Rawat’s ashes were immersed in the Ganga River in Haridwar on Sunday. A host of Army officials, Union minister of state for defence Ajay Bhatt, Uttarakhand assembly speaker Prem Chand Aggarwal, state cabinet ministers Swami Yatishwaranand, Dhan Singh Rawat, Haridwar Mayor Anita Sharma, Rishikesh Mayor Anita Mamgain, and a large number of people including saints and former Army service personnel were present to pay tribute at the Ganga ghat. General Rawat’s daughters, Kritika and Tarini immersed the ashes at the VIP Ganga Ghat opposite Har-Ki-Pauri. Uttarakhand CM Pushkar Singh Dhami also met them at the Ghat. Local priests performed the rituals with chanting of hymns as people gathered in large numbers at the VIP ghat and adjacent NH-58 highway. Former army service personnel and young men raised slogans of “Bharat Mata Ki Jai” (Hail Mother India)’, “Bipin Rawat Amar Rahe”, (May Bipin Rawat’s legacy remain for eternity) and paid tribute to the senior most Army officer who hailed from Saina village in Pauri Garhwal district of Uttarakhand. Union Minister of State Defence and Tourism highlighted the contribution of Gen Bipin Rawat as Army chief, CDS and his close association with Uttarakhand. “Had met Gen Bipin Rawat on November 9 last month on the occasion of Uttarakhand Foundation Day. It is an immense loss to the country and we pray for peace for the departed soul,” said MoS Defence Ajay Bhatt.Priests Pt Aditya and Pt Abhinav Vashistha performed the immersion related rituals at the Ganga ghat.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/general-rawat-s-daughters-immerse-parents-ashes-in-haridwar-s-ganga-101639248765736.html
12-12-2021||India||Karnataka police book two for ‘objectionable’ posts on CDS Rawat’s death||Karnataka police on Saturday booked two people for uploading objectionable posts on social media about late Chief of Defence Staff (CDS) General Bipin Rawat. CDS Rawat, along with 12 others, was killed in a fatal helicopter crash at Coonoor, Tamil Nadu on Wednesday.According to Mangaluru police officials, cases have been filed against Vasanth Kumar TK and Shrinivas Karkala after their ‘objectionable’ posts on the Facebook accounts were flagged to the police. According to a complaint filed by Sushanth Poojari, the two users had uploaded posts celebrating the death of late CDS and expecting the death of national security advisor (NSA) Ajit Doval. “We have booked the two men under sections 505(1)(B) (with intent to incite, or which is likely to incite any class or community of persons to commit any offence against any other class or community) of the Indian Penal Code. No arrests have been made so far,” Mangaluru city police commissioner N Shashi Kumar told the media. Kumar told the media that the police would investigate whether these accounts were real or they were posted from fake accounts. Karnataka chief minister Basavaraj Bommai on Friday issued a warning against commenting disrespectfully on CDS Rawat.“Offensive Tweets and Social Media posts about the tragic chopper crash in which we lost our #CDSGeneralBipinRawat will not be tolerated. I strongly condemn all such messages and have instructed our Police Officials to take strict disciplinary legal action against the offenders,” the chief minister tweeted. Talking to media on Friday, the chief minister said: “Some persons with perverted minds have tweeted derogative, celebratory messages about the death of Chief of Defence Staff Gen Rawat. The Police Chief has been instructed to take legal action against these elements.” Home minister Araga Jnanendra, too, issued a statement instructing the state police to take stern action against those who post derogatory remarks on social media on CDS Rawat’s demise. The minister had also spoken on the issue with the Karnataka police chief, Praveen Sood, and directed to take action. “We cannot tolerate such things, berating our brave officer, who had contributed his might immensely for the noble cause of our nation, and flutter our tricolour sky-high,” he said in a statement to the media.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/karnataka-police-book-two-for-objectionable-posts-on-cds-rawat-s-death-101639248764500.html
12-12-2021||India||Karnataka govt shuts down almost 100-year-old Tamil school in Bengaluru citing lack of students||Two weeks ago, the state education department shut down a 91-year-old government Tamil School in Bengaluru, citing a lack of students. Located in the Central Business District (CBD), the Rao Bahadur BV Venakata Naidu School, built in 1930, was one of the few existing Tamil government schools in the state. Despite being a heritage building, the government, instead of restoring it, stopped paying the electricity bill, resulting in the school running without power for seven years. Last week, 10 students were shifted to a different school, leaving the building unattended. The government has also made its intentions clear as a proposal by Indian National Trust for Art and Cultural Heritage (INTACH) to restore the building with Corporate Social Responsibility (CSR) funds was turned down by the government in November this year. “We had submitted a Detailed Project Report (DPR) to restore the building. The cost of the proposed project was ₹27 lakh, which the rotary club was ready to fund. However, the department officials turned down the project, saying they didn’t want to restore this building since there were not enough students,” said Meera Iyer, convenor of INTACH, Bengaluru chapter.Iyer further said that department of public instruction (DPI) commissioner R Vishal asked the INTACH team to invest the same funds in some other schools where there are a substantial number of students.Doubts have been raised on why the department does not want to restore the building, which has a 15,514 sq ft area in a prime location in Ashok Nagar. “The building has a history of several years, and it is a heritage building. Understandably, the department doesn’t want to run a school with a handful of students, but we can’t understand the rationale behind shutting the school down and abandoning the property. The building could be developed for another purpose by the department,” said ward committee members, who didn’t want to be named.There is limited literature on the history of the school. It was named after Venkata Naidu, a builder and a part of the Cantonment Municipal Corporation during the British Era. According to officials of the Tamil Sangha in Bengaluru, Naidu was involved in providing education to the Panchama community, which constitutes of Scheduled Caste and Scheduled Tribe people. HISTORY OF TAMIL SCHOOLSThe Tamil schools in Bengaluru have a history of their own. One of the migrations that changed the linguistic character of the city happened during the British India era. After the military engineers found Bengaluru’s topography and proximity to other cities to be good for developing a cantonment, manpower was required. “When the British started constructing the cantonment area since they had a base in the Madras presidency, they brought in skilled labourers and traders as part of the development of the cantonment. This is one of the reasons why the cantonment area in Bengaluru has a large Tamil speaking population,” said Suresh Moona, a Bengaluru based historian. The Tamil schools that came up in Bengaluru was a result of this cultural change, but over the years, the number of these Tamil schools have come down, resulting in many schools such as the one in Ashok Nagar shutting down due to lack of students.Even though reviving the Tamil school is a herculean task due to demand for English medium schools in the state, questions are being raised on why the heritage structure can’t be saved. “For the past six years, we have been working with the school. We have conducted cycle day and other programmes to spread awareness about this heritage school. But since the lockdown, the government has shut down the school,” said Meenakshi Ravikrishna, a ward committee member and a member of the Bangalore Political Action Committee. Being 91 years old will not help the building’s cause, say activists. In Karnataka, there is no framework at present to apply for the heritage status of a building. According to Moona, Bangalore Urban Art Commission (BUAC) was established in 1976, and it commissioned a survey of the city’s heritage buildings in the mid-1980s. The survey listed over 800 such buildings that were thought to be worthy of protection. “In 2001, the BUAC was suddenly dissolved. There is still no clear idea why it was done, but we believe the opposition to the rapid urbanisation from the commission led to it. The commission had opposed the construction of Vikas Soudha (a building with an identical design as the historical Vidhan Soudha). Then there were restrictions on construction on major roads like MG Road and others. This could be the reason. Since then, there is no talk of restoring the commission and massive developments continue across the city, unchallenged,” Moona said.He said that if the beauty and history of the existing heritage buildings have to be preserved, there is a need for another Bengaluru arts commission. “What is important is to make it independent and to appoint experts on heritage in this committee. Ensuring there is government involvement in the committee is very important. But in our current economic race, I don’t know if that could be a reality,” he said. Adding to the argument, Iyer said that at present a letter can be written to Bangalore Development Authority (BDA), however, it may not result in the building getting heritage status. “In the case of this school, sadly there is no legal framework to ensure a renovation citing its heritage value,” she added.
12-12-2021||India||Kerala governor slams ‘political appointments’ in varsities||Kerala Governor Arif Mohammed Khan on Saturday continued his attack against the Communist Party of India (Marxist)-led government over its handling of affairs of universities in the state, saying political interference in higher educational institutions has become “unbearable” for him. Talking to HT from New Delhi days after he wrote a strongly worded letter to chief minister Pinarayi Vijayan, Khan said he was really “pained” over the dipping standard of higher educational centres and blamed the “brazen political interference” as main reason for this. “I always supported the government and never thought of a confrontationist line. But how long can you be a spectator like this. I told them several times to bring eminent people as the vice chancellors and follow UGC (University Grants Commission) norms, but for the government, political consideration was only criteria,” Khan said, adding that he signed some of the letters, including the Kannur V-C’s appointment, with “pain and anguish”. In a strongly worded letter, dated December 8, the Governor informed Vijayan that he was ready to sign immediately if the latter brings an ordinance to amend the Acts empowering the chief minister to become the Chancellor of universities. Noting that the government of the day should not interfere in the functioning of the varsities, hurting their autonomy, Khan said as the chancellor of the universities he had tried his best to save the autonomy of the higher educational institutions. “In my two-year stint in Kerala, my office got maximum complaints about higher education sector. How can such institutions excel if you make political appointments one after the other brazenly flouting all procedures and norms? When I want to talk to the CM, I am told he is busy with the party conference in Kannur,” he said. Khan added that without autonomy and transparency, higher education cannot excel. “I have no plan to come back as the chancellor if I won’t get total guarantee that varsities will get full autonomy and free from political appointments,” he said. He said two days back, he told Kerala finance minister KN Balagopal and chief secretary VP Joy that he cannot be a party to “such nefarious political interventions”. “Politics is OK but you can’t mix it everywhere. I know many brilliant students are leaving Kerala in large numbers due to dipping standard. I can’t be a party to it anymore,” the Governor said. The ruling CPI(M), however, said the state government always regarded the governor in high esteem and maintained good relations with him. “He is the constitutional head of the state and we have good relations with him. Differences, if any, will be ironed out at the earliest,” said party leader KK Balan. According to party insiders, the chief minister is likely to call on the governor after he returns from the national Capital onMonday. According to political observers, what really irked the governor was the re-appointment of the vice-chancellor of Kannur University, Prof Gopinath Raveendran, and alleged attempts by the state government to appoint another Left-leaning teacher in Kalady Sanskirt University. Raveendran was re-appointed on November 20 for a period of four years after the government issued a notification and appointed a selection committee to select the new V-C. The governor has claimed that he was flooded with too many complaints about recurring political appointments in academic council and faculty. Raveendran’s re-appointment was on November 22challenged in the Kerala high court. The appointment of the wife of CM’s political secretary, KK Ragesh, in a high position at Kannur University in September had also kicked up a row. In April this year, the Kerala high court quashed the appointment of CPI(M) legislator AN Shameer’s wife Shahala as the assistant professor in Kannur University. Meanwhile, Opposition Congress attacked the Vijayan government over the issue, alleging that the Left Democratic Front (LDF) government was converting the universities into “party cells”. VD Satheesan, senior Congress leader and leader of Opposition in the Kerala legislative assembly, termed the issues raised by the governor to the CM as “very serious”, adding it was the latest example of the “politicisation of education in the universities” in the state. “Backdoor appointments take place in universities. Universities are being turned into party cells. It is better to have the party secretary as chancellor than the chief minister. The governor has confirmed what the opposition had mentioned earlier,” Satheesan said in a statement. The opposition parties in the state stepped up pressure for the resignation of higher education minister R Bindu. “She has no right to continue in power,” said senior Congress leader Ramesh Chennithala, adding that he will move the Lokayukta against the minister. BJP state president K Surendran also alleged that relatives of ruling politicians were being appointed in key posts in the universities in the state under the LDF rule. Surendran demanded legal action against those, including vice-chancellors, for appointing relatives of ministers and politicians into universities. 
12-12-2021||India||Kerala soldier laid to rest in Thrissur village||The mortal remains of Junior Warrant Officer A Pradeep Kumar, one of the 12 people who were killed along with Chief of Defence Staff (CDS) General Bipin Rawat in the fatal helicopter crash at Coonoor on Wednesday, were laid to rest in his native village Ponnukkara in Thrissur district with state honours on Saturday.Despite the advisory of authorities on crowding, thousands swarmed the village to pay last respect to the deceased soldier. The mortal remains were first kept at the school where Kumar studied and later taken to his house. His eight-year-old son lit the pyre after Kerala Police and the Indian Air Force officials accorded gun salutes.Four state ministers were present at the house. Earlier, minister of state for external affairs V Muraleedharan accompanied the body from Sulur airbase in Coimbatore to Thrissur.Posted in Sulur, Kumar was part of many rescue operations, including the Uttarakhand flood in 2013, the Kerala flood in 2018 and anti-Naxal operations in Chattisgarh, his family members said. During the 2018 floods, he spent days airlifting the stranded and dropping food to the affected. The IAF rescue team had received a commendation from the President and state government for their performance. Joined the Air Force in 2004, the 37-year-old was planning an early retirement after completing 20 years in service. Kumar’s father, who is on a ventilator, was not informed about his untimely death, family members said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/kerala-soldier-laid-to-rest-in-thrissur-village-101639248703036.html
12-12-2021||India||93% of trains ran on time between April and November this year: Railways data||Trains in India are now running on time as Indian Railways utilised the 2020 pandemic lockdown to do some serious maintenance of tracks, coaches and engines, officials said.As much as 93.29% of the trains have been punctual between April and November 16, 2021, compared with 75.67% of trains from April to November 2019 running on time, and 68.19% between April and November 2018, railway ministry data show.“Realising that not being able to dedicate required time for maintenance was one of the crucial reasons for poor punctuality rate, we decided to utilise the lockdown days to the fullest,” a ministry official said, requesting anonymity. “Moreover, we also worked on the timetable in a way that the trains are now able to get more time for their maintenance.”Almost all trains have now resumed operations. “Around 1,750 Mail and Express trains are running as of November 16,” the official said. “The average pre-Covid was 1,768 Mail and Express trains.”The national transporter has been able to improve the average maintenance time of a train. “If we had one hour dedicated for a train’s maintenance, then today we have allocated three hours,” the official said. “This has been done the zero-based timetable, with an aim to give more time towards maintenance.”“Improvement in train running status is a result of number of trains on busy routes being lower (than earlier) due to the pandemic that led to restricted train movements,” said a former member of the Railway Board that oversees railways operations. “Due to this, the cascading effect of any failure would have been the minimum, leading to increased punctuality.”Some of the trains that have improved their running status include 20801/02 Magadh Express that runs between Islampur in West Bengal New Delhi and has improved its running statues by 11%; 12393/94 Sampoorn Kranti Express between Rajendra Nagar (Patna) and New Delhi improved by 5%; punctuality of 14005/06 Lichchavi Express that runs between Sitamarhi in Bihar and Anand Vihar (Delhi) improved by about by 7-8%; 12301/02 Kolkata Rajdhani that runs between Howrah and New Delhi improved by around 7%; and 12565/66 Bihar Sampark Kranti that runs between Darbhanga and New Delhi improved running status by around 8%.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/93-of-trains-ran-on-time-between-april-and-november-this-year-railways-data-101639248343288.html
12-12-2021||India||Punjab government moves Supreme Court against Centre’s move to extend BSF jurisdiction||New Delhi: Punjab has challenged in the Supreme Court the central government’s October 11 decision to extend the jurisdiction of the Border Security Force (BSF) from 15km to 50km from the international border. Terming it an “encroachment” on the state’s duty to maintain law and order, the Congress government wants the apex court to stay the October 11 notification issued by the Union home ministry. The decision, taken without consulting the state, could lead to local unrest, particularly among farmers who have to negotiate barbed wires to cultivate their farms near the border, the Punjab government said in its suit filed through lawyer Ashok K Mahajan.“Punjab is a small state and has a very potent history,” the state government said in its suit. “….no reason can justify extension of jurisdiction to the belt of 50 kilometres, which is likely to give rise to unrest among the populace, including the peasantry, which has to cross the barbed wire to cultivate their land along the border.”The extended jurisdiction means that more than 80% area of the border districts and all major towns and cities, including all border district headquarters, fall within the 50km area from the international border with Pakistan, the state government pointed out. Punjab is not the only state to protest the expansion. The West Bengal assembly, ruled by the Trinamool Congress party, on November 16 passed a resolution against the Centre’s decision to extend BSF’s jurisdiction, becoming the second state to oppose the move through its state legislature. On November 12, the Punjab assembly passed a resolution asking the federal government to withdraw its order. The order was issued under Section 139 of the BSF Act, 1968. This provision does not give unilateral power to Centre to extend into areas that do not touch the border, and would not fall in the ambit of “local limit” to which BSF jurisdiction can extend, the Punjab government has contended.The suit filed under Article 131 of the Constitution has tried to distinguish the geography and history of Punjab compared with other areas where BSF’s jurisdiction applies, such as Jammu and Kashmir, Ladakh, Gujarat and Rajasthan, where human habitation is sparse near the international border.“In case of Punjab, area is highly fertile, heavily populated and covers most of physical areas forming part of border districts of Pathankot, Gurdaspur, Amritsar, Tarn Taran, Ferozepur and Fazilka,” the state government said in its suit. “…..geography of Punjab has permitted a dense populace in the area included in the jurisdiction of BSF. The concerns of Punjab are totally different and distinguishable from the geography and concerns of UTs of J&K, Ladakh and states of Gujarat and Rajasthan.”The suit was filed in the top court on December 1. Prior to hearing the matter, the Supreme Court’s registry has issued summons to the Union of India on Friday through the attorney general for India, asking the Centre to “produce all witnesses and documents” on which they seek to rely upon and appear before the registry within 28 days.The move to expand the territorial jurisdiction of BSF evoked strong political reactions in Punjab, after which the state’s chief minister, while chairing an all-party meet on October 25, had said his government will challenge the move, saying it was an attack on India’s federal structure.Reacting on the development, Punjab Congress party chief Navjot Singh Sidhu wrote on his twitter handle, “I congratulate Punjab and it’s legal team to be the 1st to approach the Hon’ble Supreme Court by filing an original suit challenging the notification extending the BSF jurisdiction. The fight to retain the principles embodied in the constitution i.e. to retain the federal structure and autonomy of the states has begun … Notice issued to the centre to respond.”The paramilitary force was there only to complement, assist and strengthen state police and other law-enforcement agencies, Sonali Mishra, inspector general of police, BSF Punjab frontier, had said on November 13.“We always coordinate with police and other agencies for national security and in the interest of the country,” she had said. “The BSF is not a policing organisation.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/punjab-government-moves-supreme-court-against-centre-s-move-to-extend-bsf-jurisdiction-101639247922951.html
12-12-2021||India||PM inaugurates Saryu canal project in UP, slams previous govts for ‘delay’||Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Saturday inaugurated the Saryu Canal National Project in poll-bound eastern Uttar Pradesh’s Balrampur district and invited farmers to a join a mega programme on “natural farming” on December 16.Addressing a rally in Balrampur after inaugurating the ₹9,800-crore project, aimed at providing assured water for irrigation to over 1.4 million hectares and benefit about 2.9 million farmers, Modi hit out at previous governments in the state for “delaying projects” and “wasting public money”.“Most painful is the waste and misuse of the country’s money, time and resources and its humiliation. This thinking is the biggest hurdle in the balanced development of the country and this thinking has also stalled the Saryu Nahar project. All the citizens of the country should understand that when the work on this project was started its cost was under ₹100 crore and now it is about ₹10,000 crore. This money was your hard-earned money,” the prime minister told the gathering.He added: “We never forget anyone who offers water to quench people’s thirst and I am sure that now that your parched fields will get water, your blessings will help us work with greater enthusiasm.”The PM said a big event on natural farming will be organised on December 16, adding that it saves earth and water and the crop produced through it is also better. “I invite farmers across the country for a mega farmers’ programme on natural farming on December 16. Here, you will learn about zero budget farming, which saves water and gives better yield too,” he added.Taking a jibe at Samajwadi Party (SP) president and former chief minister Akhilesh Yadav — who has often claimed that the development works started by his government were being projected as the achievements of the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP)-led government in Uttar Pradesh — Modi said he was waiting if anyone would claim the credit for the Saryu nahar project.“When I started from Delhi, I was waiting for someone to say that he had cut the ribbon of this project and started this scheme. This is the habit of some people, maybe in their childhood they had cut its ribbon,” he said, without taking any names.“For some people cutting ribbon is the priority while for us completing schemes in time is the priority. In 2014 when I came to power, I was amazed to see that 99 irrigation projects were lying (incomplete) for decades in the country,” Modi added.Modi’s remark came hours after Akhilesh Yadav attacked the BJP governments at the Centre and in the state for “taking credit” for other’s work.“Three-fourth of the Saryu canal project was completed during the SP regime and it took the BJP government in the state five years to finish the remainder of work. In 2022, the SP era will return and the state will prosper with canals of development,” Yadav tweeted in Hindi:As part of the Saryu canal irrigation project, five rivers — Ghaghara, Saryu, Rapti, Banganga and Rohini — and 900 tributaries have been interlinked. The project aims at helping farmers in 6,200 villages of nine eastern UP districts, including Bahraich, Shravasti, Balrampur, Gonda, Siddharthnagar, Basti, Sant Kabir Nagar, Gorakhpur and Maharajganj.Reiterating his party’s ‘soch imaandar, kaam damdaar’ (honest intentions and great work) election pitch in UP, which will go to polls in February-March next year, Modi highlighted the importance of “double engine” government (same party in power at the Centre and in the state). Speaking about the ₹44,605 crore Ken-Betwa river-linking project, Modi said it would help address the water crisis in Bundelkhand.The Union cabinet approved the Ken-Betwa river-linking project on December 8.He also listed some of his government’s achievements, including the PM Kisan Nidhi scheme, under which all farmers get up to ₹6,000 per year as minimum income support. The PM also said that several bio-fuel factories were being set up in Uttar Pradesh.“In Budaun and Gorakhpur, big bio-fuel complexes are being set up. In nearby Gonda, a big plant of ethanol is being set up. UP is becoming a leader in making ethanol from sugarcane and in the past four-and-a-half years, ₹12,500 crore worth of ethanol has been purchased from the state. The Yogi (Adityanath) government has also speeded up clearing sugarcane dues of farmers. Under previous governments, more than 30 sugarcane factories were shut down. But Yogi ji’s government either revived them or started newer ones,” the prime minister said.In the beginning of his speech, Modi referred to Yogi Adityanath as an “energetic, dedicated and popular” chief minister, and said that previous governments used to protect mafia, but now the Yogi government is carrying out a campaign to clear the state of mafia and people are saying “farq saaf hai” (difference is clear).“Daughters of UP used to think twice before moving out of their homes earlier. Now criminals think twice before committing a crime, earlier daughters used to sit in homes but now the criminals are sitting inside jails in fear,” he said.‘Farq saaf hai’ is part of the BJP poll campaign in Uttar Pradesh. The party has prepared a poster series comparing the previous governments in UP with the Yogi Adityanath government.Paying tributes to the country’s first chief of defence staff (CDS) General Bipin Rawat, who died in a helicopter crash in Tamil Nadu along with his wife and 11 other personnel, Modi said his demise is a great loss to the nation.“The death of India’s first Chief of Defence Staff is a huge loss for every patriot of the country. The entire country witnessed General Rawat’s efforts in making the forces ‘atmanirbhar’ (self-reliant),” he said and prayed for early recovery of the lone survivor of the helicopter crash, IAF Group Captain Varun Singh who was born in Deoria in UP.“Even while bearing this pain, the country will not pause, we will work harder to face the challenges from both inside and outside the country,” Modi added.(WITH AGENCY INPUTS)
12-12-2021||India||TMC promises women ₹5k monthly stipend if voted to power in Goa||The Trinamool Congress (TMC) has promised a stipend of ₹5,000 every month to women in Goa if it is voted to power in the assembly polls due in February. Dubbed Griha Laxmi , the scheme will guarantee income support to a woman of every household to fight inflation once the party comes to power, TMC leader Mahua Moitra said on Saturday.The scheme will be given to all the estimated 3.5 lakh households in Goa, she promised in an election speech. “The monthly benefit of ₹5,000 will be made available through direct benefit cash transfer,” Moitra said. “This is going to be universal coverage; you don’t have to belong to any backward caste or community, you don’t have to belong to any economically deprived section. It is going to be for everyone.”The Griha Laxmi initiative has already been implemented in West Bengal, she said. Goa has a welfare scheme begun by former chief minister Manohar Parrikar in 2012 called Griha Aadhar, which provides a family ₹1,500 per month, but is offered only to economically weaker sections where household income does not exceed ₹3 lakh a year. Earlier, the Aam Aadmi Party promised to hike the dole by ₹1,000. Explaining the rationale behind the announcement, Moitra said that the need of the hour was to ensure there was money in people’s hands, especially after the twin disasters of demonetization and the Covid-19 lockdown. “Economists like Abhijit Banerjee have said the best thing is to kick-start the economy is to give people more cash in their hands. If a woman gets ₹5,000 in her hand, she can buy clothes and medicine for the children. That money goes into the economy faster. The multiplier effect is faster,” Moitra said. “This is not the time when governments should look at inflationary pressure. This is the time they should look at liquidity and pump in money.”“The budgetary allocation for this is going to be between ₹1500 to ₹2,000 crore, which is 6-8% of Goa’s budget,” she said. The ruling Bharatiya Janata Party called the announcement an election gimmick aimed only at garnering votes. “The original idea belongs to Manohar Parrikar who had brought about the Griha Aadhar scheme, which was basically to empower women and make them independent and that scheme has come a long way,” BJP spokesperson Narendra Sawaikar said. “These are nothing but aims to buy votes and not really empower women. This is an election gimmick.” “Both AAP and TMC are in a competition of who will give more free money to women,” Congress party’s social media coordinator Hasiba Amin said. “Both know they won’t win a single seat, so they can promise whatever they want.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/tmc-promises-women-5k-monthly-stipend-if-voted-to-power-in-goa-101639247683537.html
12-12-2021||India||Mass para jump held to mark 50 years of Tangail airdrop||A top general of the Indian Army on Saturday led a mass parachute jump at a premier base in Uttar Pradesh’s Agra to mark 50 years of the historic battalion-sized Tangail airdrop north of Dhaka during the 1971 war with Pakistan, a critical operation that set the stage for surrender by the rival army, officials familiar with the development said.The Tangail airdrop is the biggest airborne operation mounted by Indian paratroopers.The army and the air force dedicated the parachute jump at Agra to India’s first chief of defence staff General Bipin Rawat and the 12 others killed in the horrific Mi-17V5 crash near Coonoor in Tamil Nadu on December 8.Central Army commander Lieutenant General Yogendra Dimri led the mass jump involving 120 elite paratroopers and four veterans, who took part in the 1971 India-Pakistan war.“General Rawat envisioned jointmanship amongst the services to touch the highest standards of integration and execution. The parachute jump was marked by precise coordination between the army and air force in the best spirit of jointmanship,” the Indian Army said in a statement.Rawat, his wife Madhulika Raje Singh Rawat and the CDS’s defence assistant Brigadier LS Lidder were on Friday cremated with military honours at Brar Square in Delhi Cantonment in two separate solemn ceremonies steeped in military tradition, with top government officials attending the heart-wrenching final send-off and thousands of men, women and children lining the road leading to the crematorium to pay their last respects and raising slogans of glory for the departed.The aim of the Tangail operation was to capture the Poongli bridge on Jamalpur-Tangail-Dhaka road and the ferry site on Louhajang river to intercept Pakistani army’s 93 Brigade that was retreating from the north to defend Dhaka, the officials said.Around 750 men of the 2nd Battalion of the Parachute Regiment were involved in the successful mission. The paratroopers defeated a force that was three times numerically superior and shattered the will of the Pakistani army to defend Dhaka.Several veterans who took part in the Tangail airdrop and subsequent operations in Bangladesh witnessed the commemoration of the landmark event at Agra. Lieutenant General Nirbhay Sharma, who was the adjutant of 2 Para during the 1971 war, was among those present.The veterans who took part in the mass jump were Lieutenant General RR Goswami, Major General Shiv Jaswal, Colonel Thomas Kochappan and Colonel Pramod Tembe.The Shatrujeet airborne brigade, consisting of the army’s finest paratroopers and based at Agra, was the centrepiece of high-altitude combat manoeuvres carried out by the army and the air force in the Ladakh sector in early November.The airborne drills in eastern Ladakh aimed to validate and showcase the Indian military’s rapid response capabilities, including inter-theatre movement of troops and equipment, precision stand-off drops, rapid grouping and ability to capture designated targets with speed and surprise at a time when India and China are locked in a standoff along the Line of Actual Control (LAC) in the sensitive sector.Other elements of the exercise include integrated battle drills by airborne forces, mechanised columns and attack helicopters.
12-12-2021||India||Normal traffic to resume in a few days as farmers vacate borders||As the farmers have started returning home from the three protest sites — Singhu, Tikri and Ghazipur — senior Delhi Police officers said they are coordinating with concerned agencies and administrations of Haryana and Uttar Pradesh to clear the blockades for resuming vehicular movements through the three borders. “We have started the process of removing the barricades and blockades that were placed on the Delhi side. The concerned stakeholders have been intimated about the developments and asked to take necessary steps to open the three borders. We are trying to open the borders and resume traffic on the roads as early as possible,” said special commissioner of police (law and order, north zone) Dependra Pathak. Police officers said that National Highway Authority of India (NHAI) officials have been asked to inspect the roads at the protest sites before they are opened for the public. “At many places roads were dug and filled with concrete materials to install iron spikes. The farmers had built concrete structures on the roads while at several places holes were made in the roads to erect iron pipes to set up tents. All these issues need to be addressed by the concerned agencies,” said an officer.In October, the Delhi Police removed some concrete barriers, concertina wires and spikes from near the farmer agitation spots in Ghazipur (Delhi-Ghaziabad border) and also from Tikri (Delhi-Haryana border) to restore vehicular movement to some extent. The move came after the Supreme Court on October 21 observed that protesters cannot block public roads indefinitely. By Saturday evening, around 70-80% farmers had vacated the Singhu (Delhi-Haryana border) protest site. At Singhu border, several large langar camps and metallic sheds were still intact and it might take more time and heavy machinery for their removal. The main protest stage of the Samyukt Kisan Morcha (SKM) and surrounding enclosures were also intact and the highway remained strewn with concrete slabs, broken embankments and damaged roads. Moreover, the concrete embankment, iron spikes embedded on road and a series of barricades and shipping containers used by the Delhi police to block the road opposite the farmers’ protest camp, also remain intact. A few protesters said they will leave Singhu border by Monday. Kashmir Singh, 39, who hails from Tarn Taran in Punjab, said their convoy will leave the site on Monday as they plan to keep running a langar for the remaining people. “We have been staying here since November 29, last year. We will stay for another couple of days so that no one is left hungry. Some people are still waiting for their trucks to arrive,” Singh said. Avtar Singh, who runs ‘Kisan Mazdoor Ekta hospital’ on the Singhu border, said the hospital will be removed on Monday. “We will provide the medical help till the last remaining farmer on Singhu border. We have treated around 6,000 emergency cases during the protest,” Singh said, adding they are focusing on clearing the rubble around the hospital. “We will clean everything around our hospital and safely dispose of all the junk.” At Tikri, nearly 80-90% of the farmers had vacated the protest site. Only a few tents and skeletal structures remained at the site and were expected to be cleared up in the next few days. Huge concrete boulders that had been placed to prevent the movement of farmers into Delhi were also being dismantled using JCB machines by police officials on Saturday. Sunil Singh, who runs a chemist shop next to the protest stretch, said he had incurred financial losses during the last year due to the blockade. “Huge concrete boulders are placed on the road. Until these are cleared up and the road opened for traffic, the situation will not be restored to normal. We are hoping that authorities clear up the remains soon so that our business gets back on track,” said Singh. 
12-12-2021||India||Monitor 27 districts very closely for Covid: Centre||States must keep a strict watch in 27 districts that have reported Covid-19 test positivity rates of 5% and above, the Union health ministry said on Saturday, even as a 35-year-old man with travel history to Zimbabwe and South Africa became the second patient in Delhi to test positive for the Omicron variant of the coronavirus.There is a high possibility that Omicron will lead to a new wave of cases wherever it takes hold, experts said. Whether the variant leads to milder disease is unclear, but it is established that it is more resistant, and evidence is now mounting that it could surpass the Delta variant’s transmissibility.Eight of the 27 districts have reported at least 10% positivity rate for the past two weeks, the Union health ministry said on Saturday. The test positivity rate is the percentage of people who test positive for the disease out of all samples tested.“With the recent trend of sustained and overall decline in Covid-19 cases in the country, we are critically placed in our fight against the pandemic,” Union health secretary Rajesh Bhushan wrote in a letter to all states and Union territories. “Eight districts in three states have been reporting more than 10% positive rates in the past two weeks. Further, 19 districts in 7 states/UTs (Union territories) have been reporting positivity rates between 5% and 10% in the past two weeks. Thus, these 27 districts need to be monitored very closely.”Delhi reported its second Omicron case on Saturday, with a person having come from Zimbabwe, and who also travelled to South Africa, testing positive for the heavily mutated variant of Sars-CoV-2, according to the Delhi government. The person was fully vaccinated against Covid-19.The patient is undergoing treatment at the Delhi government-run Lok Nayak Jai Prakash Narayan Hospital in central Delhi. The Delhi government has designated the hospital for isolation and treatment of the Omicron variant of Covid-19 cases. The patient has shown mild symptoms, a government official said, requesting anonymity.A 37-year-old man who arrived in Delhi from Tanzania earlier was the first case in the national capital who tested positive for the new variant, first identified in South Africa.India has reported 33 cases of Omicron since the first two cases were detected from Karnataka on December 2. Rajasthan has reported nine Omicron cases, three cases have been reported from Gujarat, 17 from Maharashtra, two from Karnataka, and two cases have been reported from the national capital region.India has reported less than 0.04% of Omicron cases so far among total variants detected of Sars-CoV-2 virus, and close to 70 clusters are currently under investigation across the country, according to the Union health ministry.On Saturday, the Centre asked states to maintain a strict watch on the situation, with focused district-level measures for containment of clusters of new cases. Nineteen districts in Kerala, Mizoram, Arunachal Pradesh, Puducherry, Manipur, West Bengal and Nagaland have been reporting positivity rates between 5% and 10% in the last two weeks, according to official data.The eight districts that have reported Covid-19 positivity rates of more than 10% in past two weeks belong to the three states of Mizoram, Kerala and Sikkim, according to the health ministry.It was in this context that the states needed to heighten vigil, the health secretary said. “In case of any district reporting a surge in cases, or rise in positivity rates, intensive action and local containment as per the containment framework must be initiated,” said Bhushan.Among strategic containment measures suggested by the Centre in identified areas with test positivity rate of more than 10% are putting night curfew in place, ensuring intermingling of people is restricted, curtailment of attendees in marriages and funerals, etc.The health ministry has emphasised the importance of testing and surveillance measures, including ramping up Covid-19 diagnosis and active case search, testing of influenza-like illness and severe acute respiratory infection cases through rapid antigen tests (RAT) and retesting by RT-PCR of symptomatic RAT negative tests.“Rapid antigen test may not be as accurate as RT-PCR tests but it is a beneficial tool where caseload is high as positives shown in the test are true positives because of high specificity,” said Dr Amita Jain, head of the microbiology department at King George’s Medical University, Lucknow.
12-12-2021||India||Border landscape set to change as farmers head home||Scores of farmers from across the three protest sites at Delhi’s borders dismantled their tents, bundled up their belongings and began the journey home while singing, dancing and cheering atop their tractors on Saturday, after a successful culmination of their yearlong sit-in against the three contentious farm laws.Thousands of farmers from UP, Haryana, Punjab and parts of Rajasthan have been camping at national capital’s borders -- Singhu, Tikri and Ghazipur -- since November 26 last year to protest the three contentious farm laws that have now been scrapped by the Centre.On November 19, Prime Minister Narendra Modi announced that his government was repealing the contentious laws and Parliament scrapped them on November 29. The compromise between the Centre and protesting farm unions came 11 rounds of tenuous negotiations. The end of the agitation also came as a relief to local residents in the areas where the protests were being carried out. Many locals said they supported the protesters by providing them fresh produce, vegetables and milk, but pointed out that they also bore the brunt of the traffic diversions and blockades.Dr Vijay Arora, who lives near the protest site at Tikri, said that farmers have been cooperative with the local residents and never misbehaved. Arora said that the area reverberated with slogans and music over the last year and it would take some time to get used to seeing the stretch without its brimming crowds. “Initially, we were fearful that the farmers might create a nuisance. However, they were quite cooperative. They have a right to protest and I am happy that they succeeded in getting their demands fulfilled,” said Arora.Many residents in Singhu village, however, expressed relief at the possibility of fewer traffic diversions and called for urgent repair of the damaged roads. Manoj Gupta, a resident of Singhu village, said that while he supported the farmers’ protests, the village roads have crumbled under the influence of heavy traffic. “The entire highway traffic has been passing through the narrow village roads. Our mohallas have been turned into national highways and even kids cannot play safely. We support the farmers and their cause but we hope to now get relief from our situation,” he said.Some of the traders also hoped that their business will be restored after the farmers vacate the road stretch, with some highlighting the loss of at least 50% of their revenue earnings due to the protest over the last year.“So many factories in the Kundli industrial areas have closed down. Even we could not bring cards for pick-up and drops of couriers so we started using motorbikes for transportation. Now that the highway will be reopened, we hope to resume our business operations at full scale,” said Sunil Kumar (27), who runs a courier service near Singhu border, adding that he has witnessed 50% reduction in his business during the protests.Kundli is an industrial area where many factories, vehicle showrooms, warehouses, stores and shops are located.Another trader, Sukhbir Saini, 38, who has been operating a fast food stall at Singhu border for the last six years, stated that his business was suffering. “The farmers were operating free langar sewa. The number of labourers in the area went down drastically due to the pandemic and farmers’ protests and the remaining ones started eating in the langars. The eateries in the area were forced to shut down as there were no customers. We did not even have 10% of the old business level and I was unable to pay the rent. I hope with the reopening of the road, we will be able to reverse our fortunes,” Saini said.The street vendors of the area, meanwhile, said they benefited a lot from the huge gatherings due to the protest. Chandrabhan Singh (42), a  woollen clothes vendor from the Rajasthani colony in Kondli, said that he has been visiting the protest site for the past year. “The number of people living here went down drastically in the last few months. The hustle and bustle have reappeared over the last 15 days. It has been like a workplace for me during the last year. We will start finding some new market from next week,” Singh said. Vindsh Arora (44) a Rajouri Garden resident who has been selling flags, badges and memorabilia related to the farmers’ movement, said that he rented out two rooms to start his business near the protest site in December 2020. “Usually, we focus on election states to sell our materials but the farmers’ protest site has been like a home to me. Barring the 26th January incidents, the protest has remained largely peaceful. We will close down our operations now,” he added.(With inputs from Sadia Akhtar)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/border-landscape-set-to-change-as-farmers-head-home-101639247145869.html
