13-12-2021||India||Opposition MPs plan privilege motion against ex-CJI Ranjan Gogoi over remarks during interview||New Delhi: Former Chief Justice of India and Rajya Sabha member Ranjan Gogoi could face charges of breach of privilege as some Opposition MPs, including Trinamool’s Jawhar Sircar and Mausam Noor, are preparing to move a privilege motion against him for his recent comments in a TV interview.An Opposition leader who asked not to be named said that Sircar has submitted a notice to the secretary general of the Rajya Sabha to this effect, and talks are on between different Opposition parties to take it forward. According to the rules, a privilege motion can only be moved if it has a support of at least 25 MPs. Gogoi , nominated to the Upper House by President Ram Nath Kovind in March 2020, said in the interview, “The point is I go to the Rajya Sabha when I feel like, when I think there are matters of importance on which I should speak.”One Opposition member pointed out that Gogoi indicated that members can the Rajya Sabha only after RT-PCR tests, and that he was personally not very comfortable with that.“He also said, ‘I am a nominated member, right. I am not governed by any party whip. And therefore, whenever the bell rings for party members to come, that does not bind me I go there at my choice and I come out at my choice. I am an independent member of the House.’ This is unexpected from a person like him,” the member added.Gogoi was present in the House on Monday. Sircar and Noor declined to comment on the move.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/opposition-mps-plan-privilege-motion-against-ex-cji-ranjan-gogoi-over-remarks-during-interview-101639419969734.html
13-12-2021||India||India votes against UNSC draft resolution to 'securitise' climate action||India on Monday voted against a draft resolution of the United Nations Security Council that attempted to "securitise" climate action and undermine the hard-won consensual agreements in Glasgow.India's Permanent Representative to the United Nations TS Tirumurti said his country will always speak up for the interests of the developing world and had no option but to vote against the draft.“India is second to none when it comes to climate action and climate justice. But UNSC is not the place to discuss either issue. In fact, an attempt to do so appears to be motivated by a desire to evade responsibility in the appropriate forum and divert the world's attention from an unwillingness to deliver where it counts,” Tirumurti said.India is second to none when it comes to climate action and climate justice. But UNSC is not the place to discuss either issue: Ambassador TS Tirumurti, Permanent Representative of India to the United Nations (1/2) pic.twitter.com/AG6NCZVXG4He further said that there should be no confusion about India’s determination to combat climate change and it “will always support real climate action and serious climate justice”."We will always speak up for the interests of the developing world, including Africa and the Sahel region. And we will do so at the right place, the UNFCCC,” he said.He added that developed countries must provide climate finance of $1 trillion at the earliest, saying it is necessary that climate finance be tracked with the same diligence as climate mitigation. "The developed countries have fallen well short of their promises,” he added.(With inputs from agencies)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/india-votes-against-unsc-draft-resolution-to-securitise-climate-action-101639415228331.html
13-12-2021||India||BJP MLA calls comedians Kunal Kamra, Munawar Faruqui Pakistan's terrorists||A legislator of the ruling Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) in Madhya Pradesh on Monday called standup comedians Kunal Kamra and Munawar Faruqui Pakistan’s terrorists and hit out at Congress leader Digvijaya Singh for inviting them to perform in Bhopal.Bhopal Huzur MLA Rameshwar Sharma said he would not allow shows of anyone who disrespected Hindu deities anywhere across the state.Earlier in the day, Singh took to Twitter and urged the two comedians, both of whom were recently denied permission for shows in Bengaluru, to come to Bhopal and perform, adding that all responsibility for the event would be on the Congress veteran."I will organise a show for you Kunal and Munawar in Bhopal. All responsibility will be mine. The only condition is that the subject of comedy will be Digvijaya Singh. Sanghis (RSS cadre) should not object to this!! Don't be afraid!! Give the date and time as per your convenience. All your conditions are accepted," Singh wrote and tagged a news report related to Kamra.Sharma said Singh is inviting Pakistan's terrorists to his home for a biryani party. “This doesn't mean that we all will accept it. Those who disrespect Lord Ram and Sita and our country will not be allowed to hold a show in Bhopal and MP,” Sharma said and accused the Congress and Singh of indulging in divisive politics.Last month, Faruqui was denied a nod to hold a show in the Karnataka capital amid protests by some right-wing outfits. A few days later, Kamra, a vocal critic of the Narendra Modi-led government at the Centre, said his stand-up shows, scheduled to be held in Bengaluru, were cancelled after the organisers received threats.Earlier this year, Faruqui had spent a month in jail in Indore after a BJP MLA's son lodged an FIR in January accusing him of hurting religious sentiments through his show.(With agency inputs)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/bjp-mla-calls-comedians-kunal-kamra-munawar-faruqui-pakistan-s-terrorists-101639413563215.html
13-12-2021||India||Civil aviation ministry receives in-principle approval for setting up 21 greenfield airports across India||The civil aviation ministry has received ‘in-principle’ approval for setting up 21 greenfield airports across the country, the ministry informed the parliament on Monday. Out of these 21 airports, eight airports have been operationalized. The government also said that 154 Regional Connectivity Scheme (RCS) airports, including 14 water aerodromes and 36 helipads, have been identified for development/upgradation, under the Udey Desh ka Aam Naagarik (UDAN) scheme, so far.Replying to MP Vijay Pal Singh Tomar, Gen VK Singh, minister of state for civil aviation, said that the Airports Authority of India (AAI) has taken up development of new airports and expansion and up-gradation of existing airports at the cost of around ₹25,000 crores in the next four-five years. These plans include expansion and modification of existing terminals, new terminals, expansion or strengthening of existing runways, aprons, Airport Navigation Services (ANS) control towers, technical blocks. Singh also informed that three Public-Private Partnership (PPP) airports at Delhi, Hyderabad and Bengaluru have undertaken major expansion plans to the tune of ₹30,000 crores by 2025. The government had formulated the Greenfield Airport Policy, 2008, to provide guidelines for the establishment of new greenfield airports in the country. As per the policy, an airport developer (including the state governments), is required to send a proposal to the ministry of civil aviation (MoCA).There is a two-stage process for the approval of the proposal ‘site-clearance’ stage and ‘in-principle’ approval stage. As per this policy, MoCA receives proposals from the state governments (or airport developers) for establishing airports. Singh said, “MoCA has so far accorded ‘in-principle’ approval for setting up of 21 greenfield airports across the country namely Mopa (Goa), Navi Mumbai, Shirdi and Sindhudurg in Maharashtra, Kalaburagi, Bijapur, Hassan and Shimoga in Karnataka, Datia (Gwalior) in Madhya Pradesh, Kushinagar and Noida (Jewar) in Uttar Pradesh, Dholera and Hirasar in Gujarat, Karaikal in Puducherry, Dagadarthi, Bhogapuram and Oravackal in Andhra Pradesh, Durgapur in West Bengal, Pakyong in Sikkim, Kannur in Kerala and Hollongi (Itanagar) in Arunachal Pradesh.”“Out of these eight airports namely Durgapur, Shirdi, Sindhudurg, Pakyong, Kannur, Kalaburagi, Oravakal and Kushinagar have been operationalized,” Singh concluded.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/civil-aviation-ministry-receives-in-principle-approval-for-setting-up-21-greenfield-airports-across-india-101639410610964.html
13-12-2021||India||PM Modi seeks details of Srinagar terror attack; Jaish claims responsibility||Prime Minister Narendra Modi has sought details on the terror attack in Jammu and Kashmir's Srinagar which led to the death of two policemen and injuries to 12 of their colleagues, his office tweeted on Monday.Also Read | Terrorists open fire at police bus on Srinagar outskirts, 2 cops die, 12 hurt“PM @narendramodi has sought details on the terror attack in Jammu and Kashmir. He has also expressed condolences to the families of those security personnel who have been martyred in the attack,” the Prime Minister's Office (PMO) shared on Twitter. PM @narendramodi has sought details on the terror attack in Jammu and Kashmir. He has also expressed condolences to the families of those security personnel who have been martyred in the attack.Meanwhile, speaking to news agency ANI, Vijay Kumar, IG, Kashmir, said that the Jaish-e-Mohammed has claimed the responsibility for the attack. “This evening, a bus carrying 25 of our personnel was attacked by two-three terrorists. 14 injured, out of which 2 martyred, while 12 are out of danger,” Kumar said. This evening a bus carrying our 25 personnel was attacked by 2-3-three terrorists. 14 injured, of which 2 martyred, 12 out of danger. 1 terrorist who was shot managed to flee. JeM's Kashmir Tigers has claimed responsibility. We are monitoring the situation: Kashmir IG Vijay Kumar pic.twitter.com/DGDxzAeWRM“One terrorist who was shot managed to flee. JeM's Kashmir Tigers have claimed responsibility. We are monitoring the situation,” the officer further said.Meanwhile, the Jammu and Kashmir Police said in a statement they identified the two deceased policemen as Assistant Sub Inspector (ASI) Ghulam Hassan and Selection Grade Constable Safique Ali. The force further informed that a case has been registered under relevant sections of the law, adding that officers are working to establish the circumstances under which the terror attack took place.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/srinagar-terror-attack-pm-modi-seeks-details-extends-condolences-to-kin-of-deceased-cops-101639408991514.html
13-12-2021||India||News updates from HT: ‘People spend last moments in Varanasi’, says Akhilesh Yadav on BJP meet and all the latest news||Here are today-’s top news, analysis and opinion. Know all about the latest news and other news updates from Hindustan Times.As BJP leaders meet in Varanasi, Akhilesh says right place to spend more time in last daysSamajwadi Party (SP) president Akhilesh Yadav on Monday said it was good that leaders of Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) were spending more time in Varanasi given the fact the people live their final moments in the holy city for Hindus. Read moreNavjot Singh Sidhu named Congress’ Punjab election committee chairmanThe Congress on Monday constituted a 29-member state election committee in Punjab to be headed by party president Navjot Singh Sidhu. Assembly election to the state is due early next year. Read moreRohit Sharma ruled out of South Africa Tests with injured hamstring, BCCI names 31-year-old as replacementIn a big blow to the Indian cricket team, star batter Rohit Sharma has been ruled out of the three-Test series against South Africa starting later this month, with BCCI naming India A veteran Priyank Panchal as his replacement. Read moreBMC seals Kareena Kapoor's house, she says 'my family, staff are double vaccinated'Kareena Kapoor and her close friend Amrita Arora tested positive for Covid-19 on Monday. Kareena shared a statement on her Instagram Stories, asking all those who came in contact with her to get themselves tested. Read more Why you gain weight in winters and how to prevent itMany people tend to gain weight in winter season for a variety of reasons. The season comes with its own set of comforts from good food to pleasant weather, but it also makes one prone to weight gain. Read more||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/news-updates-from-ht-people-spend-last-moments-in-varanasi-says-akhilesh-yadav-on-bjp-meet-and-all-the-latest-news-101639408916690.html
13-12-2021||India||HT THIS DAY: Dec 14, 1967 - Lok Sabha approves Language Bill||After a long and furious debate, the Lok Sabha today heard Home Minister Y. B. Chavan reiterate that the Official Languages (Amendment) Bill was the most acceptable and balanced compromise possible in the present circumstances, before approving it by 224 votes to 75. Among the Congress Party members, Seth Govind Das, a conscientious objector, voted against the Bill. The DMK also voted against the Bill on the ground that the assurances given by Mr Nehru and Mr Lal Bahadur Shastri had been watered down and that “a reappraisal of the Constitution” was necessary. Replying to the general debate, Mr Chavan said the many differences of approach to the issue made a compromise necessary, but added that the purpose of the Bill was limited. He declared with widely appreciated emphasis, that Hindi would of course be the sole official language of the country eventually, since only one of the Indian languages could be given such a status and since Hindi was the most widely-spoken Indian language. He, however, added, that English would have to be retained as associate official language for some time in order to accommodate, those States which were not immediately prepared to accept Hindi alone in that status, and that the rest of the country would do well to show some understanding of their predicament.This, the Home Minister, said was the only way to make practicable the ideals of Mahatma Gandhi and the assurances given by Mr Nehru and Mr Lal Bahadur Shastri. There was no question of amending the Constitution to make English the associate official language. This, he said, was not warranted by the country’s traditions and history. An Act of Parliament was sufficient to retain it as a provisional link language until Hindi became unanimously acceptable. Rightful PlaceHe assured the House that energetic efforts would be made to improve Hindi and develop it to a point where it could assume its rightful place. Mere, legislation, Mr Chavan said, did not change or develop a language- it must grow. Among the members who spoke notably in the discussion today, Mr Mohammed Ismail (Muslim League-Kerala) drove home a point by remarking that since Hindi protagonists in Uttar Pradesh itself were not giving Urdu its rightful place and repeatedly promised secondary place to it in that State, the sincerity of their assurances to other Indian languages in the non-Hindi States was open to doubt. Mr M. Maran, (DMK), who made his maiden speech today, contended that Hindi was as foreign to Tamils as English. Mr Rabi Ray (SSP) made part of his speech in Oriya to demonstrate its closeness to Hindi. The Lok Sabha is expected to take up clause by clause reading of the Bill tomorrow.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/htthisdaydec-14-1967-lok-sabha-approves-language-bill-101639406770439.html
13-12-2021||India||The fraught relationship between Omicron and Goa’s festive season||Panaji: On an early December evening just past sunset, John Lobo turns on the glittering lights of his Good Luck Beach Cafe, a shack located along the Baga beach in North Goa. As evening turns to night the music will get louder and the tempo faster as tourists turn the shack deck into an impromptu dance floor.
13-12-2021||India||Keeping up with UP | 2022 polls: Vote for change or continuity?||In 1995, when Bahujan Samaj Party (BSP) leader Mayawati became the first Dalit woman chief minister of Uttar Pradesh, the late Prime Minister PV Narasimha Rao had declared that she was as a “miracle of Indian democracy.”
13-12-2021||India||Terrorists open fire at police bus on Srinagar outskirts, 2 cops die, 12 hurt||At least two of the 14 police personnel injured in a terror attack near Srinagar in Jammu and Kashmir succumbed to their injuries at the hospital on Monday. The policemen were injured after terrorists opened fire on a bus they were travelling near Zewan in the Pantha Chowk area on the outskirts of the city. Among the deceased were assistant sub-inspector Ghulam Hassan and selection grade constable Safique Ali, the Jammu and Kashmir Police said on Twitter. The other injured personnel were undergoing treatment at the hospital. The area has been cordoned off and a search operation launched to track down the assailants, officials said, adding further details are awaited.Prime Minister Narendra Modi sought details on the terror attack and offered his condolences to the families of the personnel who were killed in the incident, his office shared on Twitter.PM @narendramodi has sought details on the terror attack in Jammu and Kashmir. He has also expressed condolences to the families of those security personnel who have been martyred in the attack.Earlier in the day, two unidentified terrorists were killed in an encounter with security forces in Srinagar's Rangreth area, the Jammu and Kashmir police said.(With inputs from bureau)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/militants-open-fire-at-police-bus-on-srinagar-outskirts-14-cops-injured-101639401657576.html
13-12-2021||India||Delhi airport installs e-boarding gates. Here's how it will work||The Delhi airport has installed e-boarding gates across all three terminals for contactless and seamless travelling amid the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) pandemic. GMR Group-led Delhi International Airport Limited (DIAL) said it has rolled out the e-boarding facility for department passengers across all flights. The gates have been set up at Terminal 3 and Terminal 2 and the installation at Terminal 1 is underway.The contactless e-gates, empowered by touchless technologies and boarding card scanners, allow passengers to flash their physical or e-boarding cards and verify their flight details. After the verification process at the e-gates, the air travellers can proceed to security checks. Passengers carrying wide luggage or reduced mobility (PRM) can pass through it easily, and those carrying only hand baggage can walk through the normal lane e-gates, according to the company.“Passengers who have verified their boarding passes by scanning at the e-gates can simply walk past the e-boarding gates for security checks and then board a flight without having to show their documents again," said DIAL.The company said e-boarding gates have reduced the transaction time by 50 per cent which has resulted in lower queues. Apart from shortening the boarding time, it also allows people to avoid touching facility surfaces and people to people interaction in line with Covid protocol.Videh Kumar Jaipuriar, DIAL CEO, said that the company is in constant pursuit of enhancing the passenger experience, reported ANI.“Though, the onset of the global pandemic has made it more challenging to meet the travelers' expectations as health and safety concerns have increased. DIAL has responded to the challenge and set a benchmark with several innovative solutions in place, e-boarding gates being one of the unique technological solutions installed at the airport. The in-house team of DIAL performed several trials at Delhi Airport, keeping in view the Covid-19 guidelines issued by various government agencies. Our sole aim is to keep our passengers safe at any cost," ANI quoted Jaipuriar as saying.(With agency inputs)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/delhi-airport-installs-e-boarding-gates-here-s-how-it-will-work-101639396480268.html
13-12-2021||India||‘If anyone wants to defeat BJP, it is up to them to support us’: Mamata Banerjee says in Goa||West Bengal chief minister and Trinamool Congress (TMC) leader Mamata Banerjee, currently on a two-day visit to poll-bound Goa, expressed confidence about winning the state assembly election slated for next year and said that it was up to the other parties to support the TMC in defeating the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP).The Bengal chief minister is on her second visit to the coastal state ahead of the state assembly elections in 2022. She had visited the state earlier in October this year.“We will win the upcoming assembly elections. If anyone wants to defeat BJP then it is up to them to support us. I have a plan for Goa just like I had a plan for West Bengal. I work for all religions and castes,” Mamata Banerjee said.
13-12-2021||India||As BJP leaders meet in Varanasi, Akhilesh says right place to spend more time in last days||Samajwadi Party (SP) president Akhilesh Yadav on Monday said it was good that leaders of Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) were spending more time in Varanasi given the fact the people live their final moments in the holy city for Hindus.Stating that the days of the BJP’s rule in Uttar Pradesh were counted, the former chief minister said, “It's good. They (BJP leaders) should stay there for not only one, but two or three months. People spend their last moments in Varanasi only." Uttar Pradesh is set to see the next assembly election early next year.Prime Minister Narendra Modi is in Varanasi on a two-day visit- where he inaugurated the first phase of the mega Kashi Vishwanath corridor project. Besides chief minister Yogi Adityanath, his counterparts of other BJP-ruled states are in the city to take part in a CM's conclave. Yadav also hit out at the Yogi Adityanath-led BJP government in the state with his oft-repeated claim that all recent inaugurations were launched when he was in power.#WATCH | "It's good that the programmes are one-month long (for Kashi Vishwanath in Varanasi). They (PM Modi & other BJP leaders) should stay there for not only one, two or three months, people also spend their last moments in Banaras," says SP Chief Akhilesh Yadav, in Saifai. pic.twitter.com/Sqs1AE2hoT“The expressways are from SP's time. All of you know which government initiated the projects which the CM inaugurated in Etawah. The inaugurated jail and animal safaris are still not operational. The cricket stadium is in ruins, while electricity bills are high. They have discriminated against Etawah,” the SP chief was quoted as saying in Saifai.“The BJP can lie in front of us, but not in front of God. We'll provide a compensation of ₹25 lakh to the relatives of farmers who lost their lives once the SP government is formed,” he added.A day ago, Yadav said the Kashi-Vishwanath corridor project was approved during his term and there was documentary evidence of it. He said the BJP government has lined up a series of programmes to herald the start of the corridor only to deflect people's attention from the PM's “failure” to double the income of farmers.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/good-to-spend-more-time-in-varanasi-in-last-moments-says-akhilesh-yadav-101639399379108.html
13-12-2021||India||Retail inflation in November rises to 4.91%, marginally up from 4.48% in October||India's retail inflation accelerated in November, led by a rise in food prices, but remained within the medium-term target of the central bank, strengthening views that the bank could keep interest rates on hold at its next meeting in February.Consumer prices rose 4.91% in November from the same month last year, speeding up from October's 4.48% but lower than the consensus Reuters poll forecast of 5.10%, Ministry of Statistics data showed on Monday.The Reserve Bank of India left interest rates on hold last week, saying growth was a priority as it warned of risks from inflation and the new Omircon variant on the economic recovery.India's economy expanded 8.4% in the September quarter from a year earlier, the fastest pace among major economies, but economists say the pandemic situation is a wild card.The central bank expects retail inflation at 5.1% for October-December period and 5.7% for January-March quarter in the current financial year.Food prices, which contribute to nearly half of the consumer price index (CPI) rose 1.87% year-on-year in November, compared with 0.85% a month before. Prices of edible oil rose nearly 30% from a year ago period while vegetable prices fell by 13.6%.Inflation has been within the RBI's 2-6% target range in recent months, and a cut in fuel tax last month by the federal government and softening of global crude oil prices have dampened inflationary pressures.Economists, have, however warned of risks of uptick in headline inflation over the coming months as companies pass on rising input costs to consumers amid economic recovery."CPI inflation is set to rise further over the coming months and the risks are stacked to the upside," said Shilan Shah, India economist at Capital Economics.However, any rise in inflation is unlikely to trigger monetary tightening by the central bank, he said.Retail fuel prices rose 13.35% in November year-on-year compared to 14.35% in the previous month, the data showed.Annual core inflation, excluding volatile food and energy prices, was estimated at between 6.08% and 6.2% in November, according to three economists, compared with 6% to 6.1% in the previous month.The government does not release core inflation numbers.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/retail-inflation-in-november-rises-to-4-91-govt-101639397916141.html
13-12-2021||India||British PM Boris Johnson to address Global Technology Summit||British Prime Minister Boris Johnson will on Tuesday deliver a virtual address at the 6th Global Technology Summit, which brings together policy-makers and domain experts to discuss policy aspects of trending technology topics. The theme for this year’s summit, being jointly organised by the external affairs ministry and Carnegie India, is “Global meets local”. The sixth edition of the summit will be held during December 14-16. Besides the special address to be delivered by Johnson on December 14, external affairs minister S Jaishankar will be featured in conversation with C Raja Mohan, director at the Institute of South Asian Studies (ISAS), National University of Singapore, at one of the sessions. The summit will also witness the participation of the foreign minister of Slovenia, the Union minister for education and skill development and entrepreneurship, the UK’s secretary of state for foreign, Commonwealth and development affairs and the minister for women and equalities, France’s minister of state for digital transition and electronic communication, the three ministers of state for external affairs, and the deputy minister of information and communications of Vietnam. This year’s summit is being held in a hybrid format due to the Covid-19 pandemic. Also Read: Study projects up to 75,000 deaths in UK by April end due to OmicronThe Global Technology Summit is seen as a flagship event on geo-technology and has been held annually since 2016. Over the course of three days, the summit will discuss diverse topics on emerging technology, including crypto currency, encryption, vaccine supply chains, cloud computing, green technology, digital payments, cyber-security, and science and technology cooperation under the Quadrilateral Security Dialogue or Quad. The summit will have more than 50 sessions and the speakers will include industry leaders and domain experts from well-known tech companies. More than 2,500 participants from around the globe have registered for the event.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/british-pm-boris-johnson-to-address-global-technology-summit-101639395368338.html
13-12-2021||India||News updates from HT: Study projects 75,000 deaths in UK by April-end due to Omicron, and all the latest news||Here are today’s top news, analysis, and opinion at 5pm. Know all about the latest news and other news updates from Hindustan Times.Study projects up to 75,000 deaths in UK by April end due to Omicron, boosters may not be enoughThe Omicron variant of coronavirus could cause between 24,700 to 74,800 deaths in the United Kingdom by April end, according to a new modelling study. Read more‘Why are you ashamed?’ Court to petitioner on PM’s image on vaccine certificatesThe Kerala HC on Monday questioned the credibility of a plea that challenged the use of PM Modi’s image on Covid-19 vaccine certificates. Read more'We have already found the player': Ex-IND wicketkeeper names Hardik Pandya's replacement ahead of SA tourHardik Pandya has not been able to contribute with the ball to both India and his IPL team Mumbai Indians (MI) since his lower back injury in 2019. Read moreKareena Kapoor, Amrita Arora test positive for Covid-19, BMC says both 'violated norms, attended several parties'Actors and BFFs Kareena Kapoor and Amrita Arora have tested positive for Covid 19. The BMC has shared the news in a statement, as confirmed by ANI. Read moreBMW iX launched in India at ₹1.16 crore, to rival Audi e-Tron GT, Mercedes EQCThe German luxury car brand BMW has launched its fully electric SUV BMW iX in India and priced it at ₹1,15,90,000 (ex-showroom). Read moreIn the middle of cycling from Mumbai to Delhi, Milind Soman and Ankita Konwar did this...On Monday, Milind and Ankita took a pitstop from the cycling initiative and did a quick run of 21 kilometers together. Read more||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/news-updates-from-ht-study-projects-75-000-deaths-in-uk-by-april-end-due-to-omicron-and-all-the-latest-news-101639391377906.html
13-12-2021||India||India successfully tests long-range Supersonic Missile Assisted Torpedo off Balasore coasts||India successfully test fired a long-range Supersonic Missile Assisted Torpedo (SMART) off Balasore coast in Odisha on Monday.A defence official said the weapon system is being developed by the Defence Research and Development Organisation (DRDO) for the Indian Navy."The system has been designed to enhance anti-sub marine warfare capability far beyond the conventional range of the torpedo," the DRDO said in a statement.#WATCH | India today successfully carried out a long-range Supersonic Missile Assisted Torpedo (SMART) off coast of Balasore in Odisha. "The system has been designed to enhance Anti-sub marine warfare capability far beyond the conventional range of the torpedo," DRDO says pic.twitter.com/ZhD34UwuFWOn Saturday, the country successfully flight-tested indigenously developed helicopter-launched stand-off anti-tank (SANT) missile in Rajasthan's Pokhran firing ranges.The defence ministry said the flight-testing, carried out by DRDO and the Indian Air Force (IAF), was "successful" in meeting all the mission objectives of the missile. The weapon, developed for the IAF, can neutralise targets in a range up to 10 km, it said.Before this, a series of successful test-firing of the Extended Range Pinaka rocket system (Pinaka-ER) was carried out over a span of three days.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/india-successfully-tests-long-range-supersonic-missile-off-balasore-coasts-101639390685661.html
13-12-2021||India||Modi in Varanasi: PM wants Indians to take these three resolutions||Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Monday urged people to take three resolutions for the country after he inaugurated phase 1 of Kashi Vishwanath Dham, constructed at a cost of around ₹339 crore. Addressing a gathering inside the Kashi Vishwanath complex, the prime minister said every Indian, for him, is a part of God, and, thus, wanted to ask them for “something”, not for him, but for the country.“I want three resolutions for our country, not for myself - cleanliness, creation and sustained efforts for a self-reliant India,” he told the gathering which included Hindu seers.Terming cleanliness a 'way of life', Modi called for people’s participation in this enterprise, especially in the Namami Gange Mission. Taking about the second resolution, PM Modi said Indians had lost their faith in their own creation because of the long period of slavery.“Today, from this thousand-year-old Kashi, I call upon every countryman - create with full confidence, innovate, do it in an innovative way,” he added.PM Modi inaugurates Phase 1 of Kashi Vishwanath Corridor in VaranasiThe prime minister said the third resolution is necessary to intensify efforts towards ‘Aatmanirbhar Bharat’. He concluded his speech by saying India is in its 75th year of independence and “we have to work now on how India will be when it celebrates 100 years of independence.”During his address, the prime minister highlighted that how the invaders tried to destroy the city but others rose to safeguard it. If there is an Aurangzeb, PM Modi said, Shivaji is also there. “If any Salar Masood comes, then brave warriors like King Suheldev make him taste the might of India’s unity. And even during the British era, the people of Kashi knew what happened to Hastings,” he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/modi-in-varanasi-pm-wants-indians-to-take-these-three-resolutions-101639389635517.html
13-12-2021||India||Panel advises government to keep ban on approving new engineering colleges||A committee set up to look for ways to overhaul engineering education in the county in 2018 had earlier advised the government to put a moratorium on granting approvals to new engineering colleges for two years starting 2020, and now in its interim report, it has recommended continuing the freeze barring some exceptions, the union ministry of education told the Parliament on Monday. The committee cited low enrolment in engineering and diploma programmes across the country as the reason behind the recommendation, the ministry said. The All India Council for Technical Education (AICTE) in 2018 constituted the committee headed by BVR Mohan Reddy, the chairman of Indian Institute of Technology (IIT), Hyderabad, to recommend short term and medium term prospective plans for engineering education in India. The development came after AICTE observed that seats were lying vacant in several engineering colleges.In 2019, the Reddy committee advised AICTE to stop setting up new colleges from the academic year 2020 and “review” the creation of new capacity every two years after that. The committee observed that the capacity utilisation in engineering colleges during 2017-18 in undergraduate and postgraduate level was at 49.8% . “The Committee has held three meetings on 18.10.2021, 10.11.2021 & 30.11.2021 and reviewed the Engineering Capacity, Enrolment and Placement Data over the last three years in Engineering Institutions. In the light of low enrolments into the Engineering and Diploma programmes across the country, the Committee in its interim report submitted in December, 2021 recommended to continue the moratorium on approving new Engineering Colleges in the country barring a few exceptions,” education minister Dharmendra Pradhan said in the statement.Also Read | Clarify if government will recognise cryptos or not: Adhir Ranjan tells CentreThe committee’s recommendation has come at a time when engineering colleges in India recorded a 10-year-low in the number of seats being offered this year. Officials had cited closure of over 340 colleges between 2018-19 and 2020-21 and the ban on opening of no new colleges as the reason behind the drop. As per the data presented by the minister, the total approved intake in the AICTE approved engineering institutions has declined from 26,95,333 from academic year 2012-13 to 23,66,728 in academic year 2021-22. The intake was 24,42,948 in 2020-21, and 25,39,682 in 2019-20. As per the data provided by the ministry, the enrolment remained low over the last three years. For instance, against the intake capacity of 24,42,948 in 2020-21, only 12,75,880 enrolment were reported. Similarly, in 2019-20, only 14,10,683 students enroled against the 25,39,682 seats, and in 2018-19, only 14,16,319 out of 27,11,068 available seats were filled.
13-12-2021||India||New chapter in history of Kashi Vishwanath, says PM Modi in Varanasi | Top quotes||Prime Minister Narendra Modi said on Monday a new chapter is being written in the history of Kashi Vishwanath as he addressed a gathering in Varanasi after inaugurating the first phase of the corridor dedicated to the temple, built at a cost of around ₹339 crore.“Vishwanath Dham premises is not just a grand 'bhavan' but a symbol of India's 'Sanatan' culture and traditions. Here, you will see how inspirations of the ancient are giving direction to the future,” PM Modi said during his speech that he began with chants 'Har Har Mahadev'.Also read | If Aurangzeb came, Shivaji also rose: PM Modi at Kashi Vishwanath corridor inauguralThe Prime Minister also expressed his gratitude towards every labourer who was involved in the construction of the grand complex, acknowledging that the work to build the corridor did not stop even during the Covid-19 pandemic.Here are top quotes from the Prime Minister’s speech:- "When you come here, you will not see only faith. You will also feel the glory of your past here. You will see how ‘pracheenta’ (ancient) and ‘naventa’ (modern) come alive together. This whole new complex of Vishwanath Dham is not just a grand building. This is a symbol of the Sanatan culture of our India."- “Baba Vishwanath belongs to everyone, Maa Ganga belongs to everyone, and with the completion of Kashi Vishwanath Dham, everyone, including the divyangs, will be able to easily come to the temple.”- "Earlier, the temple area here was only 3,000 square feet. It has now become about 5 lakh square feet. Now 50,000 to 75,000 devotees can come to the temple premises.Also read | PM Modi gets rousing welcome from locals in Varanasi- “The new India is proud of its culture and also has confidence on its ability...there is 'Virasat' and 'Vikas' in the new India”- ”I want three resolutions from you, not for yourself, but for our country - cleanliness, creation and innovation and continuous efforts to create a self-reliant India”Modi is in Varanasi on a two-day visit.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/new-chapter-in-history-of-kashi-vishwanath-says-pm-modi-in-varanasi-top-quotes-101639383943693.html
13-12-2021||India||Kashi Vishwanath Corridor: PM Modi showers flower petals on construction workers||Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Monday showered flower petals on workers who constructed the Kashi Vishwanath Corridor, as he inaugurated the first phase of the project in his parliamentary constituency of Varanasi in Uttar Pradesh.Also Read | PM Modi inaugurates Phase 1 of Kashi Vishwanath Corridor in UP's Varanasi“Today, I would also like to thank all my labourer brother and sisters, who shed their sweat to bring this grand complex to life. Even during the difficult Covid-19 times, they made sure that the construction work went on. Just now, I had the privilege of meeting them and seek their blessings,” Prime Minister Modi said, addressing a gathering after opening phase 1 of the Kashi Vishwanath Corridor. #WATCH प्रधानमंत्री नरेंद्र मोदी ने काशी विश्वनाथ धाम के निर्माण में काम करने वाले श्रमिकों पर फूल बरसाकर उनका अभिवादन किया।(सौजन्य: DD) pic.twitter.com/Fi16MMMJeGPM Modi also thanked others involved in building the complex. “I also thank artisans, civil engineers, officials from the district administration, as well as families who had houses on the land on which the corridor was constructed,” he said.Also Read | PM Modi breaks security protocol to accept pagdi, scarf in VaranasiHe also congratulated Uttar Pradesh chief minister Yogi Adityanath and the state government, who, he said, worked tirelessly to complete the project.Also Read | If Aurangzeb came, Shivaji also rose: PM Modi at Kashi Vishwanath corridor inauguralThe inauguration of the Kashi Vishwanath Corridor, which took place a little after 1pm, was the highlight of day 1 of PM Modi’s 2-day visit to the temple town. He also paid obeisance at the popular Kaal Bhairav Temple, at around 12pm.Also Read | Kashi Vishwanath Corridor inauguration, meet with CMs: PM’s Varanasi skedAt 6pm, Prime Minister Modi will witness the famous Ganga Aarti while on board a ‘Ro-Ro vessel.’||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/kashi-vishwanath-corridor-pm-modi-showers-flower-petals-at-construction-workers-101639388100865.html
13-12-2021||India||Doorsarshan to host ABU Robocon finals in Aug 2022||India’s public television network, Doordarshan, will be hosting the international finals of the Asia-Pacific Broadcasting Union Robot Contest (ABU Robocon) in August 2022 in New Delhi, according to the ministry of information and broadcasting.The event this year was hosted in China over the weekend. “On behalf of Prasar Bharati, Board member Shaina NC received the ABU Robocon Flag from Shandong Radio & TV Station China, to host ABU Robocon 2022 international contest in New Delhi in August 2021,” said MIB in a press release.Addressing the Indian finalists from Nirma University and Gujarat Technical University of ABU Robocon 2021 in Ahmedabad, Shaina NC “appealed to all engineering students, especially the girls, to participate in next year’s Robocon to be hosted by Doordarshan,” said the ministry. She also said, “As our Prime Minister says ‘beti bachao beti padhao’, I hope such tickets invite more talent and more commitment from all of you.”Also Read |Electric vehicles in India: Miles to go, but the journey has begunA two-day event is being held on December 15 and 16 as a curtain-raiser of the event and it will gather feedback and suggestions on previous Robocon competitions and also hold interactive sessions for the participating teams.Asia-Pacific Broadcasting Union Robot Contest was started in 2002 wherein robots constructed by different teams competed against each other to complete tasks in the given time frame. The contest aims for friendly competition and friendship among youngsters with similar interests in the 21st century, as well as help advance engineering and broadcasting technologies in the region.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/doorsarshan-to-host-abu-robocon-finals-in-aug-2022-101639388347577.html
13-12-2021||India||Clarify if government will recognise cryptos or not: Adhir Ranjan tells Centre||In light of Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s Twitter account being hacked for a brief period of time, Congress lawmaker Adhir Ranjan Chowdhury on Monday said the government should clear the air around the much awaited introduction of a bill aimed at regulating cryptocurrencies in India.“At a time when the government is planning to ban cryptocurrencies, the prime minister’s Twitter handle is compromised and a link is tweeted saying the government is going to recognise cryptocurrencies. The government should clarify in the Parliament whether it is going to recognise cryptocurrency or not,” said Chowdhury in Lok Sabha.He questioned that if the prime minister’s Twitter handle can be compromised, how can the government ensure safety and security of the citizens’ Twitter handles. “This is a serious issue... The safety and security of our country is at risk here,” the Congress MP said.Also Read: As govt prepares to table cryptocurrency bill, PM Modi’s remarksHe said the Centre needs to explain to Parliament why the PM’s Twitter handle got hacked twice in the last two years.Chowdhury’s remarks came a day after Modi’s Twitter handle was briefly compromised and then quickly secured. When the account was hacked, a link promising a Bitcoin giveaway was shared. Many users have been sharing screen shots of the tweet that was wrongfully posted on Modi’s Twitter handle when it was compromised. The post claimed, “India has officially adopted Bitcoin as legal tender”.“As per our investigation to date, it appears that the account was not compromised due to any breach of Twitter’s systems,” the microblogging company later said.In September last year, Modi’s Twitter account was hacked by an unknown group.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/clarify-if-government-will-recognise-cryptos-or-not-adhir-ranjan-tells-centre-101639388107766.html
13-12-2021||India||Darool Uloom asks Saudi Arabia to rethink decision to ban Tablighi Jamaat||Islamic seminary Darool Uloom Deoband has condemned the reported decision of Saudi Arabia to ban Islamic missionary movement Tablighi Jamaat after denouncing it as a "gateway of terrorism".Chief Rector of the seminary, Maulana Abul Qasim Nomani, has asked Saudi Arabia to rethink its decision, saying otherwise a wrong message may be conveyed to Muslims.This is for the first time that the Islamic seminary of Deoband has openly condemned the Saudi government.The religious affairs ministry of Saudi Arabia had recently dubbed the Tablighi Jamaat as a gateway of terrorism and banned it.Prominent Muslim activist Zafar Sareshwala told PTI, "I am surprised by the decision of Saudi Arabia as the Tabligi Jamaat was always an antidote to any extremist idea. The Jamaat maintained its disapproval of all modern Jihadi movements. Even the Taliban has spoken many times against the Tablighi Jamaat".Saudi Arabia's description of the Tablighi as a gateway of terrorism is unbelievable and unacceptable, he said.In a video message from the UK, Sameeruddin Qasmi, Spokesperson of the Tabligi Jamaat of Hazrat Nizamuddin Markaz, said, "It is a big allegation on the Tabligi Jamaat. It has no connection with terrorism. Tablighi Jamaat is the group that stops terrorism, condemn terrorism and disowns terrorism.""We don't allow anyone to speak against any religion, community and country. We talk only for five pillars of Islam, none of our men have ever been found involved in any terrorist activities", he asserted."The Saudi government might have been mislead," he added.Mohammad Miyan , the member of one of the factions of the Tablighi Jamaat, said, "Our Jamaats are working all over the world. Even in Saudi Arabia, Jamaat members are working to bring the Muslims on the right path as taught by the prophet. We will not comment over the decision of Saudi government, but our Jamaats will continue to work in Saudi Arabia".Maulana Fakhrul Hasan Khan , a senior faculty in Darul Uloom Nadwa, said, "Till now we have received the news of ban only through the media. We will contact our people in Saudi Arabia before reaching any conclusion".||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/darool-uloom-asks-saudi-arabia-to-rethink-decision-to-ban-tablighi-jamaat-101639387283000.html
13-12-2021||India||Kindle Paperwhite Signature Edition is everything standard Paperwhite isn’t||There are two sides to the Kindle e-reader debate. For some it brings a specialised experience with an unparalleled sense of transcendence and for others it sits uneasily in a world where Apple iPad, Android tablet or even a phone can fill that role, in a way. Something to ponder over if you are not tethered to the belief that real books are the only way to read. That neatly takes us to the Kindle Paperwhite Signature Edition, the 2021 iteration, which is the fourth Kindle model in the line-up. Fourth, in a way at least. If we don’t weave this in as a variant of the existing Paperwhite—ideally, we shouldn’t, because there’s enough that’s been added to make this feel like a new e-reader. The price tag of ₹17,999 for the Kindle Paperwhite Signature Edition pegs this at a serious ₹4,000 premium over the standard Paperwhite e-reader. Your call on whether this is worth an upgraded display (read auto adjusting illumination) and wireless charging (hello, smartphones!). Just like the plain-Jane Paperwhite, the Kindle Paperwhite Signature Edition also has a 6.8-inch glare-free Paperwhite display with integrated lighting and 16-level grey scale (this isn’t a colour display). Yet, it isn’t the same as before. The peak brightness has been boosted, which should help with the outdoor reading on a winter’s afternoon when you want to enjoy some sunshine. This type of a display is anyway very resistant to reflections and ambience induced glares, which really helps with the comfort of reading. The other big addition is the auto-adjusting lighting (essentially, this is auto brightness), something the less expensive Paperwhite does not have. It is a bit surprising that a feature as basic as this, still isn’t a standard fixture across the Kindle line-up. it should be. The Kindle Paperwhite Signature Edition and the more expensive Kindle Oasis (around ₹21,999) have this, the more affordable Kindle Paperwhite (around ₹13,999) and the entry-spec Kindle (around ₹7,999) miss out in the present generations. It isn’t a new feature and is aimed at course correction. Setting this up will be easier too. It isn’t entirely pleasant to type on a Kindle screen when there is the underlying urgency to set up a sparkling new e-reader and get started with a book that cannot wait anymore. Now, your phone can help you get started, via the Kindle app on your phone. It is simpler and gets you to the doorstep of a world of reading quicker—you can download all your Kindle books from the cloud, complete with the last progress stage. The Kindle Paperwhite Signature Edition upgrades the storage to 32GB, a serious step forward from 8GB on the standard Paperwhite. If you’re upgrading from a Kindle that you’ve held on for a while, you’d appreciate the new interface as well. That’s the biggest visual overhaul the Kindle interface has received in years. The idea is to make it more intuitive, and to a large extent, it has worked. Home and Library are now easier to identify tabs on the bottom of the screen, while a more smartphone-esque ‘swipe down to access controls’ gesture is now part of the Kindle experience too. Transition animations still exhibit some amount of sluggishness from time to time, but there is a definite speeding up of navigation as you move around the Home and Library options, as well as the menus. Also Read: Electric vehicles in India: Miles to go, but the journey has begunKindle and battery life have always evoked a sense of relief. These humble e-readers don’t need to be charged often, and last weeks (not days or hours) on a single charge. The Kindle Paperwhite Signature Edition now gets wireless charging as well. Theoretically, it will work with any Qi standard wireless charger you may already be using for your iPhone or Android phone. Yet, owing to the larger size of the Kindle, you’d find this works better on flatter-design wireless chargers (such as the SanDisk iXpand 15-watt wireless charger) than the ones which have a slightly curved back, designed more for the phones they are meant to work best with (such as the OnePlus Warp Charge 50 wireless charger). Speaking of the battery life, the Kindle Paperwhite Signature Edition should last as much as 10-weeks on a single charge. That summarises the advantage of a specialised reading tool in a world where phones and tablets have become the all-in-ones. Try going on a binge reading session on your phone, and the eyes will hurt after a while. And on a tablet, you’ll be hunting for the charger after 7-8 hours of reading. The thing is, you would be expecting us to say the Kindle Paperwhite Signature Edition is a giant leap forward for the Kindle e-readers. It isn’t. Think of this as a more capable version of the 2021 edition of the Kindle Paperwhite. That brings with it some bragging rights. If you’ve already ordered yourself a Paperwhite, there could be that sense of regret, that you’ve just missed out on a lot of future proof features. That said, the basics of a Kindle don’t change. They simply evolve. Even if you have an older Kindle and don’t really feel the need for more storage or auto brightness controls or wireless charging, you would do well to hold on to what you have. But if you must have the very best the Kindle has to offer, the Kindle Paperwhite Signature Edition should definitely be what you splurge on. In fact, this has more than the pricier Kindle Oasis too. 
13-12-2021||India||If Aurangzeb came, Shivaji also rose: PM Modi at Kashi Vishwanath corridor inaugural||Prime Minister Narendra Modi said the Kashi Vishwanath temple was a testament to the country’s culture and ancient history as he inaugurated the first phase of a corridor dedicated to the temple in Varanasi on Monday.Addressing a gathering after the inaugural, Modi said the inauguration of Kashi Vishwanath Dham will give a decisive direction to India and herald a bright future. “Kashi reflects the entire India,” he said.He also expressed his gratitude towards labourers who worked for the construction of the grand complex. “Even during Covid-19, the work did not stop here.” Also read | PM Modi showers flower petals on construction workersThe temple that was only around 3000 square feet is now spread over five lakh square feet. “Now, 50,000 to 75,000 devotees can come visit the temple and its premises,” he added.Modi, who is in his Lok Sabha constituency on a two-day visit, said, “Tyrants tried to destroy Varanasi but it remained as sultanates rose and fell. “In our country if Aurangzeb came, then Shivaji also rose.”#WATCH The new India is proud of its culture and also has confidence on its ability...there is 'Virasat' and 'Vikas' in the new India, says PM Modi at Varanasi pic.twitter.com/xMJ8yehQiK"If any Salar Masood moves here, then brave warriors like King Suheldev make him feel the power of our unity," he said.“One will feel proud coming here -- this is a confluence of ancient and new. New history is being created. We are fortunate to have witnessed it”“The new India is proud of its culture and also has confidence on its ability...there is 'Virasat' and 'Vikas' in the new India,” he added.Further, he urged people to make a commitment towards 'swachhta', 'srijan' (cleanliness, creation and innovation) and and continuous efforts to create a 'aatmanirbhar' (self-reliant) India. “Even a small contribution will make a big change, so don't forget three resolutions,” he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/if-aurangzeb-came-shivaji-also-rose-pm-modi-in-varanasi-101639386681742.html
13-12-2021||India||PM Modi breaks security protocol to accept pagdi, scarf in Varanasi||Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Monday accepted gifts from a man on the streets of Varanasi on Monday as he asked his security personnel to allow him near his car as his convoy was on its way to the Kashi Vishwanath Temple.In a video, the Prime Minister's car is seen making its way through a narrow lane lined with residents and shopkeepers shouting slogans and greeting him with flowers.As residents of his Lok Sabha constituency showered flower petals and shouted slogans of 'Modi, Modi' and 'Har Har Mahadev’, PM Modi stopped his car and asked his security personnel to step aside. He then opened the door of his car to accept a turban and a scarf from the man.#WATCH | Locals gave a rousing welcome to PM Narendra Modi, showering flower petals and raising slogans of 'Modi, Modi' & 'Har Har Mahadev' in his parliamentary constituency VaranasiThe PM is on a two-day visit to the city to inaugurate Kashi Vishwanath Corridor project pic.twitter.com/155VrYjEpTThe man was seen placing both the headgear and the scarf on the Prime Minister, who kept his hands folded.Also read | PM Modi inaugurates Phase 1 of Kashi Vishwanath Corridor in UP's VaranasiAfter reaching the holy city, the Prime Minister took a dip in the holy Ganga and offered prayers at the Kaal Bhairav Temple and the Kashi Vishwanath Temple. He will witness the Ganga Aarti later in the evening.Uttar Pradesh chief minister Yogi Adityanath, BJP president J P Nadda and other leaders accompanied him. The Prime Minister is on a two-day visit to the city.Also read | PM Modi gets rousing welcome from locals in VaranasiDuring the two-day visit, Prime Minister will also participate meet the chief ministers of Assam, Arunachal Pradesh, Goa, Gujarat, Haryana, Himachal Pradesh, Karnataka, Madhya Pradesh, Manipur, Tripura, Uttar Pradesh and Uttarakhand. Deputy chief ministers of Bihar and Nagaland will also be present.The Kashi Vishwanath Corridor is spread over five lakh square feet and connects the temple premises to the Ganga and also provides several facilities to devotees. The inauguration of the state-of-the-art Kashi Vishwanath Corridor, which has been built at the cost of ₹339 crore, surrounding the historic Kashi Vishwanath Temple near the iconic Dashashwamedh Ghat of Varanasi, comes ahead of the assembly polls in Uttar Pradesh early next year.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/pm-modi-breaks-security-protocol-to-accept-pagdi-scarf-in-varanasi-101639384359417.html
13-12-2021||India||PM Modi inaugurates Phase 1 of Kashi Vishwanath Corridor in Varanasi||Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Monday inaugurated the first phase of the Kashi Vishwanath Corridor in Uttar Pradesh's ancient holy city Varanasi. Modi, who is on a two-day visit to his parliamentary constituency Varanasi, received a rousing welcome from the residents.Modi began his address with the religious chant "Har, Har Mahadev" and said that as soon as people enter Kashi, they are freed from all bondage.“The blessings of Lord Vishweshwara, a supernatural energy awakens our inner soul as soon as we come here,” Modi said.The Prime Minister said that the corridor is not just a grand 'Bhavan' but a symbol of India's 'Sanatan' cultural traditions.Also Read| PM Modi breaks security protocol to accept pagdi, scarf in Varanasi“The Kashi Vishwanath temple premises, which were only around 3000 square feet, has now become about 5 lakh square feet. Now, 50,000 to 75,000 devotees can come to visit the temple and its premises,” Modi said.He also thanked and appreciated the efforts of the construction workers in making the corridor.“Despite the Covid-19 pandemic, the construction workers never stopped their work,” Modi further said during the event.Before the inauguration, Modi interacted with the construction workers who were involved in the construction of the corridor and showered flower petals on them as an appreciation of their efforts. He took a group photograph with the workers.The Prime Minister also offered prayers at the Kaal Bhiarav temple and took a dip in the holy Ganga, before inaugurating the corridor.Phase 1 of the Kashi Vishwanath Corridor is being constructed at ₹339 crore. The foundation of the project was laid by Modi on March 8, 2019.Also Read| PM Modi takes a holy dip in Ganga, offers prayers at Kaal Bhairav templeAccording to a statement by the Prime Minister's Office (PMO), a total of 23 buildings will be inaugurated in phase 1 of the project. These buildings will provide a variety of facilities to pilgrims visiting the Kashi Vishwanath Temple, including yatri suvidha kendras (tourist facilitation centre), vedic kendra, mumukshu bhavan, bhogshala, city museum, viewing gallery, food court, among others, the PMO statement added.The inauguration of the Kashi Vishwanath Corridor comes just months ahead of the crucial assembly elections in Uttar Pradesh, where the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) government led by chief minister Yogi Adityanath is aiming to retain its rule for a second consecutive time.Adityanath said on Monday that the inauguration was an "unprecedented creation" of history in Varanasi.“After 400 years, 'Kashi Vishwanath Dham' has been revived, thanks to Hon. PM Modi Ji's resolve. Generations will now bow to this achievement,” Yogi tweeted.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/pm-modi-inaugurates-phase-1-of-kashi-vishwanath-corridor-in-up-s-varanasi-101639380426620.html
13-12-2021||India||2 terrorists killed in encounter with security forces in J&K's Srinagar||Two unidentified terrorists were killed in an encounter with security forces in Srinagar's Rangreth area, the Jammu and Kashmir police said on Monday."#SrinagarEncounterUpdate: 02 unidentified #terrorists killed. Search going on. Further details shall follow," the police tweeted.Officials said security forces have launched a search operation in the area.Monday’s operation came a day after security forces killed a local Jaish-e-Mohammad (JeM) terrorist in an encounter in south Kashmir’s Pulwama district. The police said they along with the Indian Army’s 42 Rashtriya Rifle and the Central Reserve Police Force’s (CRPF’s) 130 Battalion cordoned off the Bargam area of Awantipora based on specific information.“During the search operation, as the presence of the trapped terrorist was ascertained, he was given ample opportunities to surrender. However, he denied and fired indiscriminately upon the joint search party which retaliated, leading to an encounter,” a police spokesperson said.Tantray was earlier a terrorist associate and was involved in providing logistical support to active terrorists in the area, the spokesperson added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/2-terrorists-killed-in-encounter-with-security-forces-in-j-k-s-srinagar-101639381984876.html
13-12-2021||India||Sonia Gandhi demands apology from CBSE; board drops controversial question||In a rare intervention in Parliament on Monday, Congress president Sonia Gandhi demanded an apology from the Central Board of Secondary Education (CBSE) and asked the union education ministry to review the gender sensitivity standard in its curriculum as she flagged a “blatantly misogynist” passage from a question paper of a Class 10 exam last week.Soon afterwards, the CBSE announced dropping the question, saying in a statement that it was not in accordance with the guidelines of the board.In a rare intervention in Parliament on Monday, Congress president Sonia Gandhi demanded an apology from the Central Board of Secondary Education (CBSE) and asked the union education ministry to review the gender sensitivity standard in its curriculum as she flagged a “blatantly misogynist” passage from a question paper of a Class 10 exam last week.Soon afterwards, the CBSE announced dropping the question, saying in a statement that it was not in accordance with the guidelines of the board.|#+|The matter was referred to a committee of subject experts. As per their recommendations, it’s been decided to drop the passage No. 1 and it’s accompanying questions of the question paper series JSK/1. Full marks will be awarded for this passage to all students concerned,” said CBSE controller examination Sanyam Bhardwaj.Also read | Controversial text in CBSE class 10 question paper irks many; Cong’s Priyanka Gandhi says BJP ‘endorses retrograde views“To maintain uniformity, full marks will be awarded to all students for passage No. 1 in all sets of the question paper of the Class 10 English language and literature exam,” he said.Earlier, quoting from a controversial passage, Gandhi told the Lok Sabha, “This contains atrocious statements such as ‘women gaining independence is the main reason for a wide variety of social and family problems’.”While she spoke, many of her party colleagues shouted “shame, shame” targeting the government benches.She further quoted a passage that said, “wives stopped obeying their husbands is the main reason why children and servants are indisciplined” and stressed on the words “children” and “servants” as she spoke.Claiming there is “nationwide outrage regarding a shockingly regressive passage” in the comprehension section of a CBSE exam held on December 11, Gandhi said, “The entire passage is riddled with such condemnable ideas and the questions that follow are equally nonsensical.”In the Lok Sabha, Gandhi demanded a review to ensure such mistakes “never, never” happen again.Also Read: PM Modi takes a holy dip in Ganga, offers prayers at Kaal Bhairav templeThe Congress president also sought a wider review of gender sensitivity standards in the curriculum and testing.Earlier in the day, Congress leader Rahul Gandhi and Priyanka Gandhi tweeted the controversial passage. Rahul alleged an RSS hand, posting, “Most #CBSE papers so far were too difficult and the comprehension passage in the English paper was downright disgusting. Typical RSS-BJP ploys to crush the morale and future of the youth. Kids, do your best. Hard work pays. Bigotry doesn’t.”Priyanka tweeted, “Unbelievable! Are we really teaching children this drivel? Clearly, the BJP government endorses these retrograde views on women. Why else would they feature in the CBSE curriculum?||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/sonia-gandhi-demands-apology-from-cbse-for-gender-insensitive-question-101639383550689.html
13-12-2021||India||Judges salaries and services amendment bill in Rajya Sabha||The Bill to amend judges’ salaries and services acts to bring clarity concerning the date of eligibility of additional quantum of pension to a retired judge will be introduced in the Rajya Sabha on Monday after it was passed by the Lok Sabha .The High Court and Supreme Court Judges (Salaries and Conditions of Service) Amendment Bill, 2021 was introduced in the Lok Sabha on November 30, 2021 by the Union law minister Kiren Rijiju and it seeks to amend the High Court Judges (Salaries and Conditions of Service) Act, 1954, and the Supreme Court Judges (Salaries and Conditions of Service) Act, 1958, which together regulate the salaries and conditions of service of the judges of high courts and the Supreme Court of India.According to PRS Legislative Research, the Bill clarifies that a person will be entitled to the additional pension or family pension from the first day of the month in which they complete the minimum age under the concerned age bracket. The scale contains five age brackets (with a minimum age of 80, 85, 90, 95, and 100 years), and the additional quantum increases with age (from 20% to 100% of the pension or family pension). Union finance minister Nirmala Sitharaman will move the Narcotic Drugs and Psychotropic Substances (Amendment) Bill, 2021 in Lok Sabha for consideration and passage and it seeks to replace an ordinance promulgated on September 30 this year.The Bill was introduced in the Lower House last week. The Bill amends the 1985 NDPS Act which regulates the manufacture, transport and consumption of narcotic drugs and psychotropic substances. The Bill corrects a drafting error made in a previous amendment which made it impossible to apply a key provision dealing with the punishment of those financing illicit drug trafficking. Also Read: PM Modi takes a holy dip in Ganga, offers prayers at Kaal Bhairav temple In 2014, the Act was amended and the clause number of the definition for such illicit activities was changed. However, the section on penalty for financing these illicit activities was not amended and continued to refer to the earlier clause number of the definition. The Bill amends the section on the penalty to change the reference to the new clause number.As many as 20 leaders from the Opposition parties are scheduled to move a resolution against the Bill. Leaders opposing the Bill include Congress’s Adhir Ranjan Chowdhary, Trinamool Congress’s Saugata Roy and Biju Janata Dal’s Bhartruhari Mahtab. The Bill and the resolution against the Bill were on the agenda of the Lok Sabha on Friday as well.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/judges-salaries-and-services-amendment-bill-in-rajya-sabha-101639382347307.html
13-12-2021||India||In pics: Prayers, holy dip as PM Modi visits Varanasi||Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Monday arrived at his parliamentary constituency of Varanasi to inaugurate the Kashi Vishwanath Corridor project.He was welcomed by residents as they showered his cavalcade with flower petals and shouted slogans of 'Modi, Modi' and 'Har Har Mahadev' on the streets of the holy city. PM Modi offered prayers at Kaal Bhairav temple, which is one of the oldest Shiva temples in the country. Uttar Pradesh chief minister Yogi Adityanath also accompanied the Prime Minister as both traveled in the double-decker boat to Lalita Ghat from Khirkiya Ghat to visit the Kashi Vishwanath temple. He then reached the ghat adjoining the corridor and took a dip in the Ganga river. While doing Pooja of Maa Ganga, PM Modi did circumambulation thrice in Ganga and chanted mantras while standing waist deep in water.Later in the day, he is will also witness the Ganga Aarti while on-board a Ro-Ro Vessel at around 6 pm. The Prime Minister is on a two-day visit to Varanasi.PM Modi will also participate in a conclave of chief ministers of Assam, Arunachal Pradesh, Goa, Gujarat, Haryana, Himachal Pradesh, Karnataka, Madhya Pradesh, Manipur, Tripura, Uttar Pradesh and Uttarakhand, along with Deputy Chief Ministers from Bihar and Nagaland.The conclave will provide an opportunity to share governance-related best practices and is in line with the Prime Minister's vision of furthering team India's spirit.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/in-pics-prayers-holy-dip-as-pm-modi-visits-varanasi-101639380001996.html
13-12-2021||India||Watch: PM Modi gets rousing welcome from locals in Varanasi||Prime Minister Narendra Modi received a rousing welcome from the residents of Varanasi – his Lok Sabha constituency – where he arrived on Monday to inaugurate Phase 1 of the Kashi Vishwanath Corridor, constructed at a cost of ₹339 crore.In a video tweeted by news agency ANI, a large gathering of people can be spotted who arrived to welcome PM Modi in Varanasi. Most of them are seen taking pictures of the Prime Minister.PM Modi, dressed in a white kurta and adorned with flower garlands, is seen waving at the crowd with both arms. As seen in a 17-second-long clip, he later joins his hands to say goodbye and leave.#WATCH | People greet Prime Minister Narendra Modi in his parliamentary constituency Varanasi, Uttar Pradesh (Source: DD) pic.twitter.com/mQkmpdSZ5ZIn another clip tweeted by ANI, residents are seen showering rose petals and shouting slogans of 'Modi, Modi' and 'Har Har Mahadev' as PM Modi's car rides past them. When the car stops briefly, a saint offers the Prime Minister a turban and a saffron scarf.#WATCH | Locals gave a rousing welcome to PM Narendra Modi, showering flower petals and raising slogans of 'Modi, Modi' & 'Har Har Mahadev' in his parliamentary constituency VaranasiThe PM is on a two-day visit to the city to inaugurate Kashi Vishwanath Corridor project pic.twitter.com/155VrYjEpTPM Modi then travelled in a double-decker boat to the Lalita Ghat from Khirkiya Ghat to visit the Kashi Vishwanath Temple along with Uttar Pradesh chief minister Yogi Adityanath.On his arrival in the city, the Prime Minister offered prayers at Kaal Bhairav Temple.Also read | PM Modi takes a holy dip in Ganga, offers prayers at Kaal Bhairav temple"I am overwhelmed. After some time, we all will witness the inauguration of the Kashi Vishwanath Dham project. Before this, I had darshan of Kaal Bhairav ji, the Kotwal of Kashi," PM Modi tweeted in Hindi.The Prime Minister is heading to the Kashi Vishwanath temple to offer prayers at around 1pm and inaugurate the Kashi Vishwanath Dham at around 1:20pm. He will also witness the Ganga aarti at around 6pm.The Prime Minister is on a two-day visit to Varanasi.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/watch-pm-modi-gets-rousing-welcome-from-locals-in-varanasi-101639376933493.html
13-12-2021||India||PM Modi, top leaders pay tribute to security men killed in Parliament attack||Prime Minister Narendra Modi, President Ram Nath Kovind, top leaders of the government and parliamentarians paid tributes to those killed in the 2001 Parliament attack, on the 20th anniversary of the deadly terror strike on Monday.“I pay my tributes to all those security personnel who were martyred in the line of duty during the Parliament attack in 2001. Their service to the nation and supreme sacrifice continues to inspire every citizen,” the Prime Minister tweeted.On December 13, 2001, five heavily-armed terrorists from Pakistan based Lashkar-e-Taiba (LeT) and Jaish-e-Mohammed (JeM) stormed inside the Parliament complex and opened fire, killing as many as 14 people, including security forces personnel and civilians. The attack took place around 40 minutes after the Parliament was adjourned and about 100 lawmakers were present in the building.All five terrorists involved in the attack and eight security personnel died in the incident which brought India and Pakistan to the brink of a war.President Ram Nath Kovind also took to Twitter and said, “I pay homage to the brave security personnel who laid down their lives on this day in 2001, defending the Parliament of the world’s largest democracy against a dastardly terrorist attack.” He added, “The nation shall forever remain grateful to them for their supreme sacrifice.”Defence minister Rajnath Singh said, “My tributes to those brave security personnel who sacrificed their lives during the attack on the Parliament House in 2001. The nation will remain grateful for their courage and supreme sacrifice in the line of duty.”Opposition leader and the chief minister of West Bengal, Mamata Banerjee also paid homage to the security personnel. “Lest we forget. Homage to all our brave security personnel who laid down their lives on this day in 2001 to protect our Parliament. The entire nation salutes your supreme sacrifice. We will always remain grateful to you for your selfless service.”Five security personnel of Delhi Police, one woman constable of the Central Reserve Police Force (CRPF) and two security assistants of Parliament Watch and the Ward section had died while thwarting terrorists’ attempt to enter into the Parliament House. A gardener and a photojournalist too lost their lives.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/pmmodi-top-leaders-pay-tribute-to-security-men-killed-in-parliament-attack-101639380067687.html
13-12-2021||India||News updates from HT: Sanjay Raut says complaint against him politically motivated, and all the latest news||Here are today’s top news, analysis and opinion. Know all about the latest news and other news updates from Hindustan Times.Shiv Sena leader Sanjay Raut said on Monday the complaint lodged in Delhi against him for allegedly using "abusive language" against members of Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) was politically motivated and was filed to "suppress his voice". Read moreMembers of Parliament from the Congress party walked out of the Rajya Sabha on Monday, protesting against the continued standoff over the suspension of 12 MPs from the Upper House. Read moreLong lines of vehicles were seen between the Atal Tunnel and Sissu in the Lahaul and Spiti district of Himachal Pradesh as people thronged to the snow-clad region ahead of New Year celebrations. Read moreFormer India international Aakash Chopra has picked his Test team of the year, featuring the likes of Rohit Sharma and Ravichandran Ashwin. Read moreActor Katrina Kaif on Monday shared new pictures from her wedding day giving a glimpse inside the celebrations. Taking to Instagram, Katrina dropped the photos in which she walked under a flower-adorned chadar (canopy) as she proceeded for her wedding ceremony. Read moreHarnaaz Sandhu marked a historic win for India as she was crowned the Miss Universe 2021 on December 12 at Universe Dome in Eilat, Israel. Miss Universe 2020 Andrea Meza of Mexico crowned Harnaaz as her successor at the end of the event. Harnaaz won the title 21 years after Lara Bhupathi, who won it in 2000. Read morePrime Minister Narendra Modi on Monday embarked on a two-visit to his parliamentary constituency Varanasi in Uttar Pradesh. PM Modi was seen performing pooja at Kaal Bhairav temple in Varanasi. Watch more||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/news-updates-from-ht-sanjay-raut-says-complaint-against-him-politically-motivated-and-the-latest-news-101639378808149.html
13-12-2021||India||Traffic congestion at Atal Tunnel as tourists rush to Himachal ahead of New Year||Long lines of vehicles were seen between the Atal Tunnel and Sissu in the Lahaul and Spiti district of Himachal Pradesh as people thronged to the snow-clad region ahead of New Year celebrations.Visuals posted by the news agency ANI showed rows of cars moving inside the Atal Tunnel, which is also known as Rohtang Tunnel. Inaugurated in October last year, the 9.02 km-long highway is the longest highway single-tube tunnel above 10,000 feet (3,048 metre) in the world.Himachal's economy largely depends on the tourism sector, which was badly hit during the first and second waves of the coronavirus pandemic. The sector contributes ₹12,000 crores to the state’s economy annually which is 7 per cent of Himachal’s GDP.The tourism industry started to recover in summer this year, but it is again fearing losses as Omicron, the latest and more contagious mutation of the Covid-19, threatens a fresh surge in the country.Though Himachal hasn’t reported a single case of Omicron infection, the tourism industry is anticipating tough times.Before the Covid-19 outbreak, roughly two crore tourists, domestic and foreign, would visit Himachal every year. In 2020, the number dropped to around 32 lakh.In 2019, the state witnessed a jump of 4.63 per cent in tourist arrival. A total of 1.72 crore people visited the state that year of whom more than 3 lakh were foreigners.This year, 40,98,592 tourists visited Himachal Pradesh till October and only 3,972 foreigners came to the hill state.A maximum of 272,048 tourists visited Kangra, which is also famous for its ancient temples, and as many as 182,423 people went to Solan, which adjoins Haryana and Punjab.The majority of the tourists visiting Solan were from Haryana, Chandigarh.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/traffic-congestion-at-atal-tunnel-as-tourists-rush-to-himachal-ahead-of-new-year-101639378777718.html
13-12-2021||India||PM Modi takes a holy dip in Ganga, offers prayers at Kaal Bhairav temple||Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Monday offered prayers at the Kaal Bhairav temple and took a dip in the Ganga before inaugurating the Kashi Vishwanath Corridor in Varanasi, his parliamentary constituency in Uttar Pradesh.After a rousing welcome from residents of the holy city, who showered flower petals and shouted slogans of 'Modi, Modi' and 'Har Har Mahadev’, PM Modi took a cruise boat from the Khirkiya Ghat to Lalita Ghat to visit the ancient Kashi Vishwanath temple.Wearing a saffron-coloured attire, PM Modi offered flowers to the river considered holy by many Hindus and chanted mantras on a rosary. He also took water from the Ganga for the jalabhishek at the Kashi Vishwanath Temple.
13-12-2021||India||Congress walks out of Rajya Sabha over suspension of Opposition MPs||Members of Parliament from the Congress party walked out of the Rajya Sabha on Monday, protesting against the continued standoff over the suspension of 12 MPs from the Upper House. Leader of the Opposition, Mallikarjun Kharge said the government has not conceded to their demand to revisit the suspension.Speaking in the house shortly after it convened for business, Kharge said the opposition has repeatedly requested the chair to reconsider the suspension of MPs accused of disrupting the proceedings on the last day of the Monsoon session.“… You are the custodian of this house, the government cannot dictate what we should do or not do. Our deputy leader has already spoken to you and also to the leader of the house but they are repeatedly refusing to concede our request. They are putting blame on us…it is not good therefore, I can say that the government is adamant and they want to provoke us to disturb the house. In protest we walk out.”Earlier Anand Sharma of the Congress and Dravida Munnetra Kazhagam’s (DMK) Tiruchi Siva also urged the chairman to revisit the action taken against the suspended MPs. Both leaders said the government should find a way to end the logjam.Opposition MPs also demanded a reply from the Leader of the House, Piyush Goyal. Congress leader Jairam Ramesh later tweeted to say that the opposition had announced the walkout so that the Zero Hour could continue in the house. “But somewhat mysteriously, the House got adjourned yet again!,” he tweeted, referring to the adjournment of the Rajya Sabha till noon.  
13-12-2021||India||Only during polls: BJP hits back at Rahul Gandhi’s ‘Hindu but not Hindutvavadi’ comment||Bharatiya Janata Party’s West Bengal unit president Sukanta Majumdar has said that Congress leader Rahul Gandhi projects himself as a Hindu only when elections are to be held.Majumdar’s comment came as Rahul Gandhi said “I am a Hindu but not a Hindutvavadi” during a rally on Sunday in Jaipur in Rajasthan, where assembly elections are scheduled to be held in 2022."It is our achievement that he is calling himself a Hindu. However, he acknowledges himself as a Hindu only during elections. He will wear janaeu during elections. He will visit temples and go for tourism during the elections. But when elections are not there, then he goes to beaches and has nothing to do with being a Hindu," Majumdar told ANI on Sunday."The people who claim themselves as Hindus are no less than the Ramayana's Ravana who came dressed in bhagwa clothes as an imposter to kidnap Sita," Majumdar added.Rahul Gandhi said on Sunday Hindutvavadis only want power and they are in power since 2014 as he urged people to throw them and bring back Hindus who follow the path of truth."Hindutvavadis spend their entire life in search of power. They want nothing but power and can do anything for it. They follow the path of 'Sattagrah' (search for power), not 'Satyagrah' (search for truth). This country is of Hindus, not of Hindutvavadis," Rahul Gandhi said at the Jaipur rally.Also read | ‘Attack me, I am not afraid’, says Rahul Gandhi on speech about Hindu, Hindutva“Who is Hindu? The one who embraces everybody fears nobody, and respects every religion, while a Hindutvavadi bows down before his fear," he added.“In Indian politics today, there is a competition between two words -- 'Hindu' and 'Hindutvavadi'. The two words have different meanings. I am Hindu but not a Hindutvavadi... Mahatma Gandhi was a Hindu but Godse was a Hindutavadi.”Also read | ‘Rahul and Priyanka Gandhi have challenge to save Congress’: Sena MP Sanjay RautCongress president Sonia Gandhi and party leader Priyanka Gandhi Vadra were also present at the Jaipur rally.Also watch | Hindutvavadis aren't Hindus': Rahul Gandhi renews attack on Modi-led BJP & RSSSeveral other BJP leaders, including party spokesperson Gaurav Bhatia, also took a jibe at Rahul Gandhi for his comment on the "difference between Hindus and Hindutvavadis"."Rahul Gandhi says he is Hindu and not a Hindutvavadi. But the country says that Rahul Gandhi is neither a Hindu, nor a Hindutvavadi, or a Hindustani. The reason is that a conspiracy is being run by Gandhi family to defame Hindu and Hindutva and compare it with terrorist organisations like Boko Haram and ISIS," Bhatia was quoted as saying by PTI.He also connecting the statements made by Congress leader in Rajasthan with the upcoming Uttar Pradesh assembly elections. “These poisonous sentences are being spoken in view of the upcoming assembly elections, especially in Uttar Pradesh. I would dare you to make such indecent remarks on any other religion except Hinduism,” he said.Also read | Owaisi slams Rahul's ‘bring back Hindus’ speech; says, ‘secular agenda in 2021’The Congress, Bhatia said, does not have the courage to make such provocative speeches in Uttar Pradesh.“He knows that CM Yogi Adityanath government will take immediate action. He goes to Rajasthan where there is a Congress party government. From there he makes such statements because he knows that the government will spew their poison and Ashok Gehlot will remain silent," said the BJP leader.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/only-during-polls-bjp-over-rahul-gandhi-s-hindu-but-not-hindutvavadi-comment-101639371611878.html
13-12-2021||India||India reports 7,350 fresh Covid-19 cases, daily tally down for 3rd straight day||India's daily tally registered a drop in fresh cases for the third day straight on Monday as 7,350 cases of coronavirus disease (Covid-19) was reported in the past 24 hours, Union ministry of health and family welfare data showed.At least 202 related deaths were registered during the time span, according to the health ministry’s update. The fresh numbers took the Covid-19 caseload in the country to 34,697,860 and the death toll climbed to 475,636.The daily rise in Covid-19 cases has been recorded below 15,000 for the last 46 days now. The daily positivity rate was recorded at 0.86 per cent—it has been less than 2 per cent for the last 70 days.Active cases of Covid-19 in India stand at 91,456, which has been the lowest in the last 561 days. The active cases also account for less than 1 per cent, at 0.26, of total cases, the lowest since March 2020, according to the health ministry.Also read | Omicron cases in India at 38; 6 states and 2 Union territories report infectionsWith the recovery of 7,973 people in the last 24 hours, recoveries from Covid-19 in the country rose to 34,130,768. The Covid-19 recovery rate in the country now stands at 98.37 per cent.Under the ongoing vaccination drive in the country, 133.17 crore vaccine doses have been administered so far.Meanwhile, India's Omicron tally rose to 38 after Andhra Pradesh, Chandigarh and Kerala reported their first infections on Sunday. Maharashtra and Karnataka also recorded one case each of the latest coronavirus variant on Sunday.In India, Omicron cases have now been detected in Andhra Pradesh, Gujarat, Karnataka, Kerala, Rajasthan, Maharashtra, Delhi and Chandigarh.The World Health Organization (WHO) has warned that the Omicron variant (B.1.1.529) is more transmissible than the Delta strain and reduces vaccine efficiency, based on early data.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/india-reports-7-350-fresh-covid-19-cases-daily-tally-down-for-3rd-straight-day-101639367713211.html
13-12-2021||India||‘Their supreme sacrifice continues to inspire citizens’: PM pays tributes to security personnel killed in Parl attack||Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Monday paid tributes to the security personnel who were killed in the 2001 Parliament attack and said their supreme sacrifice continues to inspire every citizen of India."I pay my tributes to all those security personnel who were martyred in the line of duty during the Parliament attack in 2001. Their service to the nation and supreme sacrifice continues to inspire every citizen,” PM Modi posted on Twitter.Before the Prime Minister, President Ram Nath Kovind, Union home minister Amit Shah, defence minister Rajnath Singh and other Union ministers paid tributes to those who died in the terrorist attack 20 years ago.I pay my tributes to all those security personnel who were martyred in the line of duty during the Parliament attack in 2001. Their service to the nation and supreme sacrifice continues to inspire every citizen."I pay homage to the brave security personnel who laid down their lives on this day in 2001, defending the Parliament of the world's largest democracy against a dastardly terrorist attack. The nation shall forever remain grateful to them for their supreme sacrifice," President Kovind tweeted.“My tributes to those brave security personnel who sacrificed their lives during the attack on the Parliament House in 2001. The nation will remain grateful for their courage and supreme sacrifice in the line of duty,” defence minister Rajnath Singh wrote on the microblogging site.A five-member group of heavily-armed terrorists of the Lashkar-e-Taiba (LeT) and Jaish-e-Mohammed (JeM) stormed the Parliament complex in Delhi on December 13, 2001, and opened fire indiscriminately.The attack took place at around 40 minutes after Parliament was adjourned and about 100 people, including parliamentarians and staff members, were present in the building.As many as 14 people lost their lives in the attack. All five terrorists were neutralised.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/pm-modi-pays-tributes-to-security-personnel-killed-in-2001-parliament-attack-101639367087931.html
13-12-2021||India||Centre accepts plea, grants Mithila Makhana GI tag||The Geographical Indications Registry (GIR) under the Central ministry of commerce has accepted the plea to rename Bihar Makhana as Mithila Makhana and also suggested further amendments in the brand logo to better reflect its origins apart from identifying and protecting the product’s Geographical Indications (GI) rights.The development has put an end to the controversy over the branding of the mithila region’s one of the most famous produce in makhana or fox nut. After assessment of the application for amendment in name, a consultative group of experts and a senior examiner at GIR, Prashanth Kumar S Bhairappanavar, decided that certain post registration conditions will have to be met.A geographical indication (GI) is a name or sign used on certain products which corresponds to a specific geographical location or origin . Such products with a GI tag are protected under the Geographical Indications of Goods (Registration and Protection) Act, 1999. The war over Makhana’s GI tagging started after the Sabour based Bihar Agriculture University (BAU) filed an application on behalf of Purnia based fox nut growers’ association-- also known as the Mithilanchal Makhana Utpadak Sangh (MMUS)-- arguing for naming their produce as Bihar Makhana for the welfare of fox nut growers from the state.Also Read | Bihar panchayat polls: Villagers halt voting for hours over two killingsThis led to protests in the Mithila region of the state. The region is known for a specific type of aquatic crop fox nut, which is identified with its culture, said Baidyanath Choudhary, general secretary of the Vidyapati Sewa Sansthan (VSS). Following the protests, BAU amended the application on September 11, 2020, and requested change in the name of the contested GI article from Bihar Makhana to Mithila Makhana citing the social, cultural and historical background of the crop..||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/centre-accepts-mithila-makhana-gi-tag-101639369086308.html
13-12-2021||India||20 years of 2001 Parliament attack: PM Modi, President Kovind pay tributes||President Ram Nath Kovind, Prime Minister Narendra Modi and Union ministers on Monday paid tribute to people who lost their lives in the 2001 Parliament attack for their "service to the nation and supreme sacrifice.""I pay homage to brave security personnel who laid down their lives on this day in 2001, defending the Parliament of the world’s largest democracy against a dastardly terrorist attack. The nation shall forever remain grateful to them for their supreme sacrifice,” President Kovind wrote on Twitter.
13-12-2021||NA||Modi in Varanasi LIVE: PM Modi witnesses 'Ganga Aarti'||Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Monday inaugurated Phase 1 of the Kashi Vishwanath Corridor in Uttar Pradesh's Varanasi. Modi, who is on a two-day visit to his Parliamentary constituency Varanasi, received rousing welcome from the holy city’s residents on Monday. Before the inauguration, Modi interacted with the construction workers who were involved in the construction of the corridor and showered flower petals on them as an appreciation of their efforts.He also offered prayers at the  Kaal Bhiarav temple and took a holy dip in the Ganga.The Phase 1 of the the Kashi Vishwanath Corridor is being constructed at a cost of ₹339 crore. The inauguration comes just months ahead of the high-stakes assembly election in Uttar Pradesh.  Follow all the updates here:PM Modi witnesses Ganga AartiPrime Minister Narendra Modi witnesses Ganga Aarti in Varanasi.PM Modi to take part in 'Ganga Aarti' shortlyPrime Minister Narendra Modi boards Vivekanand Cruise at Ravidas Ghat in Varanasi. He will take part in 'Ganga Aarti' shortly.PM Modi takes a boat ride from Lalita Ghat to Ravidas GhatVaranasi: Prime Minister Narendra Modi takes a boat ride from Lalita Ghat to Ravidas Ghat. CM Yogi Adityanath also present with him. pic.twitter.com/wPS7TpObEIPM Modi says stolen statue of Annapurna reinstalled after a century“I am happy that the statue of Mother Annapurna stolen from Kashi has now been reinstalled in Kashi after waiting for a century,” says PM Modi.Modi says Kashi Vishwanath corridor will provide India a decisive direction"The inauguration of the Kashi Vishwanath corridor will provide a decisive direction to India and lead to a bright future. This complex is a witness to our strength, of our duty. Nothing impossible if you think, determined," says PM Modi.PM Modi thanks construction workers for their effortsPM Modi thanked and appreciated the efforts of the construction workers in making the corridor.“Despite the Covid-19 pandemic, the construction workers never stopped their work,” Modi further said during the event.PM Modi inaugurates Kashi Vishwanath CorridorPrime Minister Narendra Modi on Monday inaugurated Phase 1 of the Kashi Vishwanath Corridor in Uttar Pradesh's Varanasi. Historic day for Kashi, says UP CMUttar Pradesh chief minister Yogi Adityanath said on Monday that the inauguration of the Kashi Vishwanath corridor is a historic day for Varanasi. PM Modi offers prayers at Kashi Vishwanath temple before Phase 1 corridor inaugurationPrime Minister Narendra Modi on Monday offered prayers at the ashi Vishwanath temple, just moments before the the Phase 1 corridor inauguration. PM Modi reaches Kashi Vishwanath Corridor, to inaugurate Phase 1 shortlyPrime Minister Narendra Modi arrives at the Kashi Vishwanath Temple in Varanasi pic.twitter.com/WGCMHgx9gcThe Prime Minister has arrived at the Kashi Vishwanath Corridor in Uttar Pradesh’s Varanasi and will inaugurate Phase 1 of the project shortly.Before reaching Kashi Vishwanath Corridor, PM Modi takes a dip in the GangaPM Narendra Modi takes holy dip in River Ganga at Varanasi pic.twitter.com/yGK9YRTCrOPrime Minister Narendra Modi on Monday took a dip in the Ganga before he reaches the Kashi Vishwanath Corridor. PM Modi arrives in Varanasi to inaugurate Phase 1 of Kashi Vishwanath Corridor#WATCH | People greet Prime Minister Narendra Modi in his parliamentary constituency Varanasi, Uttar Pradesh (Source: DD) pic.twitter.com/mQkmpdSZ5ZPrime Minister Narendra Modi has arrived in Varanasi and will soon inaugurate Phase-1 of the Kashi Vishwanath Corridor. Modi was received by Uttar Pradesh chief minister Yogi Adityanath. 12 CMs, 9 deputy CMs to attend inauguration eventChief ministers of 12 states and deputy chief ministers of nine states will attend the Kashi Vishwanath Corridor inauguration on Monday. Chief ministers of Assam, Arunachal Pradesh, Goa, Gujarat, Haryana, Himachal Pradesh, Karnataka, Madhya Pradesh, Manipur, Tripura, Uttar Pradesh and Uttarakhand will be present in Varanasi for the event.  Kashi Vishwanath Corridor inauguration, meet with CMs: PM Modi's Varanasi skedPrime Minister Narendra Modi on Monday started a two-day visit to Varanasi, his parliamentary constituency in poll-bound Uttar Pradesh, to inaugurate phase 1 of the newly-constructed Kashi Vishwanath Corridor and hold meetings with chief ministers of BJP-ruled states. Read more'Rejuvenation of Indian pride': UP CM Yogi AdityanathUttar Pradesh chief minister Yogi Adityanth said on Monday that the inauguration of the Kashi Vishwanath Corridor is a rejuvenation of Indian pride. “After 400 years, 'Kashi Vishwanath Dham' has been revived, thanks to Hon. PM Modi Ji's resolve. Generations will now bow to this achievement,” Yogi tweeted. PM Modi to inaugurate phase-1 of Kashi Vishwanath CorridorPrime Minster Narendra Modi will visit the Shri Kashi Vishwanath Temple in Varanasi at around 1pm, after which he will inaugurate phase-1 of Shri Kashi Vishwanath Dham.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/kashi-vishwanath-corridor-inauguration-live-updates-101639364441043.html
13-12-2021||India||Kashi Vishwanath Corridor inauguration, meet with CMs: PM’s Varanasi sked||Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Monday start a two-day visit to Varanasi, his parliamentary constituency in poll-bound Uttar Pradesh, to inaugurate phase 1 of the newly-constructed Kashi Vishwanath Corridor and hold meetings with chief ministers of Bharatiya Janata Party-ruled states.Constructed at a cost of around ₹339 crore, Kashi Vishwanath Corridor was “conceptualised as a project to create an easily accessible pathway to connect Shri Kashi Vishwanath Temple to the banks of the River Ganga.”The foundation stone of the project was laid by the Prime Minister on March 8, 2019.Also watch | Kashi Vishwanath Dham decked up ahead of inauguration by PM Modi 
13-12-2021||India||'Will provide proof': Akhilesh claims Kashi Vishwanath Corridor project approved by his govt||Samajwadi Party chief Akhilesh Yadav has claimed credit for the Kashi Vishwanath Corridor, which will be inaugurated by Prime Minister Narendra Modi in Varanasi on Monday just ahead of the assembly polls in Uttar Pradesh due early next year.Akhilesh Yadav, who is the former Uttar Pradesh chief minister, has said the Kashi Vishwanath Corridor project was approved by his government and he has documentary evidence."Just so that the public does not ask this question, they are bringing Kashi Vishwanath Corridor. And if there is any cabinet which passed the Kashi Vishwanath Corridor, it was the Samajwadi Party's government," Akhilesh told reporters on Sunday, according to news agency PTI."We will provide you with the documents. Because this time, we will talk with proof," he added.Also read | PM Modi to inaugurate Kashi Vishwanath Corridor in Varanasi todayThe Akhilesh Yadav-led Samajwadi Party was in power in Uttar Pradesh from 2012 to 2017, before Bharatiya Janata Party formed the government in the state with Yogi Adityanath at the helm.“The chronology of Kashi Vishwanath Corridor: Crores (of Rupees) were allocated in the Samajwadi Party regime. The SP government started acquisition of the buildings for the purpose of the Corridor,” Akhilesh said in a tweet in Hindi later.“An honorarium was fixed for the temple staff. The 'paidaljeevi' (pedestrians) should tell that why the cleanliness drive of the Varuna river undertaken by the SP government was stopped, and what happened to the Metro (rail)?" he asked.Also read | Akhilesh hits back at PM’s ‘red cap’ remarkWith the crucial UP assembly elections right around the corner, the BJP and the SP have intensified their war of words as the ruling party is looking to retain its power while the opposition party is hoping for a comeback in the state.Yadav in recent weeks has claimed his government either started or approved projects being inaugurated by the BJP government, including Purvanchal Express and Saryu Canal Nation Project.Yadav also alleged the BJP government has lined up a series of programmes to deflect people's attention from PM Modi’s “failure” to double the income of farmers.“All of you know who made the promise of doubling the income of the farmers. Today due to price rise fertilisers are not available, so how will the income of the farmers be doubled?” PTI quoted Akhilesh as telling reporters.PM Modi will on Monday inaugurate Phase 1 of the Kashi Vishwanath Corridor, constructed at a cost of around ₹339 crore. According to the statement by the Prime Minister's Office (PMO), PM Modi will visit the Kashi Vishwanath Temple and offer prayers before the inauguration event at 1pm.The corridor is expected to boost tourism in the ancient city, which is also PM Modi’s Lok Sabha constituency.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/will-provide-proof-akhilesh-claims-kashi-vishwanath-corridor-project-approved-by-his-govt-101639364024118.html
13-12-2021||India||News updates from HT: PM Modi to inaugurate Kashi Vishwanath Corridor in Varanasi today and all the latest news||Here are today’s top news, analysis and opinion. Know all about the latest news and other news updates from Hindustan Times.PM Modi to inaugurate Kashi Vishwanath Corridor in Varanasi todayPrime Minister Narendra Modi will visit Varanasi in Uttar Pradesh on Monday to inaugurate Phase 1 of the Kashi Vishwanath Corridor, constructed at a cost of around ₹339 crore. Read MoreOmicron cases in India at 38; 6 states and 2 Union territories report infectionsOmicron cases in India rose to 38 after Andhra Pradesh, Chandigarh and Kerala reported their first infections and Maharashtra and Karnataka also recorded one each of the latest coronavirus variant on Sunday. Read MoreAmid Beijing Winter Olympics boycott, China’s note of appreciation for PakistanChina's ambassador to Pakistan has said his country appreciates Pakistan for being against the “politicization” of sports after Islamabad’s comment that the Beijing Winter Olympics would offer "a spectacular and colourful gala to sports enthusiasts around the world." Read MoreBWF World Championships 2021: Indians in action on Day 2; HS Prannoy, Dhruv Kapila resume country's campaignAfter former world no.1 Kidambi Srikanth got his campaign off to a sizzling start on Day 1, the focus is now on India's seasoned campaigner HS Prannoy and 21-year-old Dhruv Kapila to carry forward the nation's charge on Day 2 of the BWF World Championships 2021 in Huelva, Spain. Read MoreWhat Ankita Lokhande and Vicky Jain wore for wedding engagement and Mehendi: All pics and videoSoon-to-be-married couple Ankita Lokhande and Vicky Jain kickstarted their pre-wedding festivities with full force in Mumbai last week. The couple is finally tying the knot after being in a relationship for more than three years. Read MoreSabyasachi says Vicky Kaushal and Katrina Kaif didn’t see each other’s outfits till wedding day, calls her ‘meticulous’Sabyasachi Mukherjee, who designed Vicky Kaushal and Katrina Kaif’s wedding outfits, said that they only saw each other’s outfits on the day of their grand nuptials. He added that it was ‘beautiful’ that their visions aligned. Read More||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/news-updates-from-ht-pm-modi-to-inaugurate-kashi-vishwanath-corridor-in-varanasi-today-and-all-the-latest-news-101639365258733.html
13-12-2021||NA||Parliament Highlights: Lok Sabha adjourned till tomorrow||The ongoing Winter Session of Parliament entered the 11th day on Monday.Since the commencement of the session, a number of issues have been discussed, including the firing in Nagaland, amid opposition protests. On the first day, the Centre passed the bill to repeal the three central farm laws in both Houses, ending the year-long protests by farmers.Even though the Rajya Sabha was repeatedly adjourned in the first week of the proceedings owing to the opposition's protest, it has recorded a productivity of 52.50 per cent so far, an improvement of 5.6 per cent over that of the first week, according to news agency ANI.Meanwhile, the 12 suspended continued their protest against their suspension near the Gandhi Statue in Parliament premises.The Winter Session began on November 29 and will end on December 23.Follow all the updates here:Lok Sabha adjourned till TuesdayLok Sabha proceedings adjourned for the day, to resume at 11am tomorrow.Lok Sabha passes Narcotics Drugs (Amendment) BillLok Sabha passes the Narcotic Drugs and Psychotropic Substances (Amendment) Bill, 2021.Rajya Sabha adjourned for the dayRajya Sabha proceedings adjourned for the day. House to convene at 11am tomorrow.Rajya Sabha returns High Court and Supreme Court Judges (Salaries) BillRajya Sabha unanimously considers and returns the High Court and Supreme Court Judges (Salaries and Conditions of Service) Amendment Bill 2021. The Bill clarifies when will the retired Supreme Court and High Court Judges receive an additional pension.Suspended Rajya Sabha MPs meet Lalu Prasad YadavSuspended Rajya Sabha MPs meet former Bihar CM and Rashtriya Janata Dal (RJD) leader Lalu Prasad Yadav in Delhi.Govt agreed to release crude oil to provide relief to citizens'In a bid to provide relief to citizens, Govt of India agreed to release 5 million barrels of crude oil from its Strategic Petroleum Reserves, in consultation and parallelly with other major global energy consumers including the USA, China, Japan and South Korea: MoS (Petroleum and Natural Gas) in Rajya SabhaSuspended Rajya Sabha MPs continue ‘dharna’The 12 suspended MPs are sitting on dharna in front of the Gandhi statue as a protest against Chairman's decision to suspend us. This is against House rules, Constitution...They should revoke suspension, call us back and let us put across our views in the House: Mallikarjun Kharge, Leader of Opposition, Rajya SabhaDuty of govt to ensure sale of drugs should be contained, says DMK leader in Lok Sabha"The duty of the government to ensure that sale of drugs should be contained," Dravida Munnetra Kazhagam leader Veeraswamy Kalanidhi says in the Lok Sabha.LS takes up NDPS (Amendment) Bill, 2021The Lok Sabha has taken up the Narcotic Drugs and Psychotropic Substances (Amendment) Bill, 2021 for consideration and passing in the House.TMC moves privilege motion notice against Rajya Sabha MP and ex-CJI GogoiTwo Trinamool Congress (TMC) Rajya Sabha MPs submit privilege notice against fellow MP and former Chief Justice of India (CJI) Ranjan Gogoi for his comments regarding the House made during his interview to a private channel.Rajya Sabha resumes proceedingsThe Rajya Sabha has resumed proceedings.The House is discussing the Bill to amend judges’ salaries and services.Lok Sabha adjourned till 2:10pmThe Lok Sabha has been adjoured till 2:10pm.Sonia Gandhi raises objection to ‘blatantly misogynist’ passage in CBSE Class 10 exam in LS#WATCH | Congress interim chief Sonia Gandhi raises in Lok Sabha the issue of inclusion of a 'shockingly regressive passage' in CBSE's question paper for Grade 10 exam, demands withdrawal of the passage & apology(Source: Sansad TV) pic.twitter.com/lO1Db4ty3qCongress president Sonia Gandhi raises objection to "blatantly misogynist" passage in CBSE Class 10 exam in the Lok Sabha.Raising the issue during Zero Hour, Gandhi demanded immediate withdrawal of the objectionable question and a review into the "gravest lapse".Rajya Sabha adjourned till 2pmThe Rajya Sabha has been further adjourned till 2pm following an uproar by the Opposition members of the House.Lok Sabha discusses Integrated Tribal Development ProjectThe Lok Sabha is discussing the Integrated Tribal Development Project.Rajya Sabha adjourned till noonThe Rajya Sabha has been adjourned till noon amid a ruckus in the House.Govt can't tell us what to do, what not do: Mallikarjun Kharge in Rajya SabhaMallikarjun Kharge raises the issue of suspension of 12 MPs in the Rajya Sabha.  “You are the custodian of the house, the government can't dictate us what to do, what not do,” Kharge tells Rajya Sabha chairman M. Venkaiah Naidu.Will raise issue of the suspension of 12 MPs in Parliament: Mallikarjun KhargeToday, we will raise the issue of the suspension of 12 MPs in Parliament. Their suspension must be taken back. Floor leaders of Opposition parties meet today morning on this issue: Leader of Opposition in Rajya Sabha, Mallikarjun KhargeManish Tewari gives adjournment motion notice in Lok Sabha Congress MP Manish Tewari has given the adjournment motion notice in the Lok Sabha over the issue of inflation.Nirmala Sitharaman to move NDPS (Amendment) Bill, 2021 in Lok Sabha today Union finance minister Nirmala Sitharaman will move the Narcotic Drugs and Psychotropic Substances (Amendment) Bill, 2021 for consideration and passing in the Lok Sabha. The Bill was introduced in the Lower House last week. Judges' salaries and service amendment bill to be introduced in Rajya Sabha todayThe Bill to amend judges’ salaries and services will be introduced in the Rajya Sabha on Monday. It was earlier passed in the Lok Sabha.Rajya Sabha records 52.50% productivity so farThe Rajya Sabha has recorded a productivity of 52.50 per cent so far, news agency ANI quoted people familiar with the matter as saying.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/parliament-live-rajya-sabha-records-52-50-productivity-so-far-101639361957204.html
13-12-2021||India||Rajnath Singh to inaugurate BEL’s week-long exhibition today||Defence minister Rajnath Singh will on Monday inaugurate Bharat Electronics Limited (BEL) week-long exhibition at its nine units spread across the country to showcase its capabilities in both defence and non-defence segments, according to the company's press release.The exhibition by the Centre-owned aerospace and defence electronics company will take place from Monday till Sunday (December 19) in adherence with all coronavirus disease (Covid-19) related protocols.Apart from Bengaluru, the exhibition will be organised in BEL's units in Ghaziabad, Panchkula, Kotdwara, Navi Mumbai, Pune, Hyderabad, Machilipatnam and Chennai.It is being organised as a part of the Union government's Azadi Ka Amrit Mahotsav, which is an initiative to commemorate 75 years of progressive India and its glorious history, the press release said.“Students of local schools, colleges and professional institutions, and the general public at large are expected to attend the exhibition which is being planned at BEL’s Bengaluru Unit in Jalahalli,” the press release added.The BEL release also said the week-long exhibition is a unique opportunity for people to have a first-hand glimpse of the company's various iconic and marquee products manufactured for use by the armed forces.Bharat Electronics Limited was founded in 1954 and has transitioned from manufacturing basic communication equipment to equipment in fields such as defence communication, radars, naval systems among others.In 2020, BEL was among the top 100 global arms-producing and military services companies, according to the Stockholm International Peace Research Institute (SIPRI).||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/rajnath-singh-to-inaugurate-bel-s-week-long-exhibition-today-101639354266311.html
13-12-2021||India||PM Modi to inaugurate Kashi Vishwanath Corridor in Varanasi today||Prime Minister Narendra Modi will visit Varanasi in Uttar Pradesh on Monday to inaugurate Phase 1 of the Kashi Vishwanath Corridor, constructed at a cost of around ₹339 crore.Before the inauguration event at 1pm, PM Modi will visit the Kashi Vishwanath Temple and offer prayers, according to the statement by the Prime Minister's Office (PMO).The PMO statement said the corridor is set to facilitate pilgrims, who had to encounter congested streets and surroundings with poor upkeep when they practised the age-old custom of taking a dip in the holy river. It will have an easily accessible pathway that will connect the Kashi Vishwanath Temple to the banks of the Ganga, according to the statement.The project is spread over an area of about 5 lakh square feet—the earlier premise was limited to just around 3,000 square feet. The project involved the purchase and acquisition of more than 300 properties around the Kashi Vishwanath Temple.PM Modi will inaugurate 23 buildings in Phase 1 of the project, the PMO said in the statement. They will provide a variety of facilities to the pilgrims visiting Shri Kashi Vishwanath Temple, including Yatri Suvidha Kendras, Tourist Facilitation Centre, Vedic Kendra, Mumukshu Bhavan, Bhogshala, City Museum, Viewing Gallery, Food Court, among others.The foundation stone of the project was laid by the Prime Minister on March 8, 2019. Since then, PM Modi has constantly monitored the work progress and also gave inputs and insights to improve the project and make it more accessible for the devotees, the PMO statement added.The Prime Minister will also visit the Kaal Bhairav Temple and witness Ganga Aarti onboard a roll-on/roll-off vessel. On Tuesday, he is scheduled to attend the 98th-anniversary celebrations of Sadguru Sadafaldeo Vihangam Yog Sansthan at Swarved Mahamandir in Varanasi.According to the statement, he will also participate in a conclave of chief ministers of Assam, Arunachal Pradesh, Goa, Gujarat, Haryana, Himachal Pradesh, Karnataka, Madhya Pradesh, Manipur, Tripura, Uttar Pradesh and Uttarakhand, along with deputy chief ministers from Bihar and Nagaland.The conclave is being organised to provide "an opportunity to share governance-related best practices and is in line with the Prime Minister's vision of furthering team India spirit."||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/pm-modi-to-inaugurate-kashi-vishwanath-corridor-in-varanasi-today-101639358228987.html
13-12-2021||NA||Breaking News: Jaish-e-Mohammed claims responsibility of Srinagar attack||Welcome to hindustantimes.com live updates platform where you can find breaking news from India and across the world. Find fast updates about the latest news as it breaks.Follow all the updates here:Jaish-e-Mohammed claims responsibility of Srinagar attack: PoliceThe Jaish-e-Mohammed terror group has claimed responsibility for the Kashmir terror attack earlier today, reports ANI citing Kashmit IG Vijay Kumar. “This evening a bus carrying our 25 personnel was attacked by 2-3-three terrorists. 14 injured, of which 2 martyred, 12 out of danger. 1 terrorist who was shot managed to flee. JeM's Kashmir Tigers has claimed responsibility. We are monitoring the situation,” he said. India votes against draft UNSC resolution on climate action: Permanent mission to UNIn fact, attempt to do so appears to be motivated by a desire to evade responsibility in the appropriate forum & divert the world's attention from an unwillingness to deliver where it counts: Ambassador TS Tirumurti, Permanent Representative of India to the United Nations (2/2) pic.twitter.com/EdGTZrd27qIndia voted against a UNSC draft resolution to securitize climate action and “undermine the hard-won consensual agreements in Glasgow,” reports ANI citing India's Permanent Mission to the United Nations in New York.Gujarat to slash VAT on Aviation Turbine Fuel by 5% from midnight: CMOમુખ્યમંત્રીશ્રી ભૂપેન્દ્ર પટેલે વાહતુક હવાઈ સેવાઓમાં વપરાતા એવિએશન ટર્બાઇન ફ્યુઅલ (ATF) પરના મૂલ્ય વર્ધિત વેરાના દરમાં ૫% નો ઘટાડો કરવાનો નિર્ણય કર્યો છે, જે આજે મધ્યરાત્રીથી અમલમાં આવશે. મુખ્યમંત્રીશ્રીના આ પ્રજાલક્ષી નિર્ણયને કારણે રાજ્યમાં પ્રવાસન પ્રવૃત્તિઓને વેગ મળશે. pic.twitter.com/b4XiajhbQ6Gujarat CM Bhupendra Patel has decided to reduce the rate of value added tax (VAT) on Aviation Turbine Fuel (ATF) used in freight airlines by 5% with effect from midnight today, his office (CMO) said in a tweet. “Due to this people oriented decision of the Chief Minister, tourism activities in the state will get a boost,” the CMO added.Delhi report 30 new Covid-19 cases, active caseload at 393Delhi reported 30 new Covid-19 cases and no related deaths as the city's total caseload reached 1,441,748 and the death toll remained at 25,100, according to a government bulletin.US tornado deaths: 64 people confirmed dead in Kentucky, reports AFP The confirmed death toll due to tornadoes in the US state of Kentucky alone stood at 64, reports AFP citing the state's governor Andy Beshear. PM Modi condoles cops killed in Kashmir terror attack, seeks detailsPM @narendramodi has sought details on the terror attack in Jammu and Kashmir. He has also expressed condolences to the families of those security personnel who have been martyred in the attack.PM Modi expressed his condolences to the policemen who were killed during the terrorist attack in Kashmir and has sought details on the incident. PM Modi congratulates Miss Universe Harnaaz SandhuCongratulations to Harnaaz Sandhu on being crowned Miss Universe. Best wishes to her for her future endeavours.Prime Minister Narendra Modi congratulated Harnaaz Sandhu after she was crowned Miss Universe. “Best wishes to her for her future endeavours,” Modi tweeted. 2 more Omicron Covid-19 cases in Maharashtra, tally reaches 20 in stateThe total cases of Omicron Covid-19 variant in Maharashtra reached 20 as two new cases – one in Latur and another in Pune – were detected in the state.UPDATE: 2 cops succumb to injuries following terrorist attack in Kashmir#SrinagarTerrorAttack: Among the injured police personnel, 01 ASI & a Selection Grade Constable #succumbed to their injuries & attained #martyrdom. Further details shall follow. @JmuKmrPolice https://t.co/VPe0PwoyfyThe Kashmir police said that two of the 14 cops injured in the terrorist attack in Zewan, Kashmir, earlier today, succumbed to their injuries. UPDATE: 14 cops injured as terrorists open fire on police vehicle near Zewan area, Srinagar#Terrorists fired upon a police vehicle near Zewan in Pantha Chowk area of #Srinagar. 14 personnel #injured in the attack. All the injured personnel evacuated to hospital. Area cordoned off. Further details shall follow. @JmuKmrPoliceThe Kashmir Police confirmed that 14 cops have been injured after terrorists opened fire on a police bus near Zewan in Pantha Chowk area of Srinagar. The area has been cordoned off. Congress appoints Navjot Singh Sidhu as chairman of Punjab election committeeHon'ble Congress President has approved the proposal of the formation of Pradesh Election Committee of Punjab Pradesh Congress Committee, as follows, with immediate effect. pic.twitter.com/npMuzcA1AzThe Congress party appointed Navjot Singh Sidhu as the chairman of Punjab election committee.Terrorists open fire on police bus in Kashmir's Zewan area, injuries reportedTerrorists opened fire on a police bus in Kashmir's Zewan area and injuries have been reported following the incident.Retail inflation rises to 4.91% in Nov against 4.48% in Oct, says govtRetail inflation in the country rose to 4.91% in November 2021 as against 4.48% in October 2021, according to government data. UK reports at least one death from Omicron variant, reports AFP citing PM Boris Johnson#BREAKING UK PM Boris Johnson says at least one dead with Omicron variant pic.twitter.com/rFb3QFLBi9The UK reported at least one death from the Omicron Covid-19 variant, reports AFP citing Prime Minister Boris Johnson.Ban on trucks in Delhi to continue till further orders: Gopal RaiCampaigns like water sprinkling, anti-open burning, & a ban on trucks in Delhi will continue till further orders. 81% of the complaints received on the Green Delhi app have been dealt with: Delhi Environment Minister Gopal RaiDelhi environment minister Gopal Rai said that the ban on trucks in the city will continue till further orders and campaigns like water sprinkling and anti-open burning would continue, reports ANI. He made the remarks following a review meeting by the government regarding pollution in the city. Kareena Kapoor Khan, Amrita Arora test positive for coronavirus, BMC says both of them had violated Covid normsActors Kareena Kapoor Khan & Amrita Arora tested positive for #COVID19. Both of them had violated COVID norms & attended several parties. BMC has ordered people, who came in contact with the two actors, to undergo RT-PCR test: BMC (Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation)(File pic) pic.twitter.com/wKqoqgFM4xThe Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation has asked those who came in contacts with actors Kareena Kapoor Khan and Amrita Arora – they tested positive for Covid-19 – to undergo RT PCR tests. The civic body also said that the actors violated Covid norms and attended several parties, reports ANI.‘Physical training under all weather conditions completed now’: Rakesh Tikait on farmers protestBharatiya Kisan Union (BKU) leader Rakesh Tikait said that the farmers have trained for the movement for a year and that their training was complete now, reports ANI. “This physical training, under all weather conditions, has been completed now. They have succeeded in the training, will work for the next 30-40 years,” he said. India successfully tests long-range Supersonic Missile Assisted Torpedo off Balasore coast in OdishaIndia successfully test fired a long-range Supersonic Missile Assisted Torpedo (SMART) off the coast of Balasore in Odisha, reports ANI citing defence officials. The weapon system is being developed by DRDO for the Indian Navy.21,235 families of Covid-19 victims received ₹50,000 ex-gratia: Delhi govtDelhi minister Rajendra Pal Gautam said that the one-time financial aid of ₹50,000 has been given to 21,235 families that reported deaths due to Covid-19, reports PTI. Encounter underway in SrinagarA day after Pulwama, encounter breaks out in J-K's Srinagar, 2 unidentified terrorists killed, say police.PM Modi welcomed with showers of flower petals in Varanasi#WATCH | Locals gave a rousing welcome to PM Narendra Modi, showering flower petals and raising slogans of 'Modi, Modi' & 'Har Har Mahadev' in his parliamentary constituency VaranasiThe PM is on a two-day visit to the city to inaugurate Kashi Vishwanath Corridor project pic.twitter.com/155VrYjEpT2 cargo ships collide in Baltic Sea off Sweden's south coastTwo cargo ships collide in Baltic Sea off Sweden's south coast, Reuters reports citing local media.PM Modi offers prayers at Kaal Bhiarav temple on his arrival in Varanasi‘Political motives': Raut on FIR for allegedly abusing BJP membersFIR registered against me in Delhi has been done with political motives and to suppress my voice. It has been done to defame my party as CBI, I-T, ED can't be used against me. I'm an MP, it's not right to encourage some to register false complaints against me, says Shiv Sena's Sanjay Raut. The commenst are in reference to the a FIR filed with Delhi police by a BJP leader for allegedly using “abusive language” on television against BJP members.India's daily Covid-19 tally drops for 3rd straight day with 7,350 cases India reports 7,350 new cases, 202 deaths and 7,973 recoveries in the last 24 hours. The active caseload stands at 91,456, lowest in 561 days, said ministry health ministry in daily health bulletin. The recovery rate has surged to 98.37%, it also said.PM Modi pays tribute to security personnel killed in 2001 Parliament attackI pay my tributes to all those security personnel who were martyred in the line of duty during the Parliament attack in 2001. Their service to the nation and supreme sacrifice continues to inspire every citizen.Harnaaz Sandhu becomes Miss Universe 2021, brings the crown home after 21 yearsThe new Miss Universe 2021 is Harnaaz Sandhu from India. The 21-year-old model was crowned the Miss Universe 2021 on Monday, December 13. Harnaaz will bring home the Miss Universe crown after 21 years. Before her, Lara Dutta was crowned the Miss Universe in 2000. Read MoreAmid Beijing Winter Olympics boycott, China’s note of appreciation for PakistanChina's ambassador to Pakistan has said his country appreciates Pakistan for being against the “politicization” of sports after Islamabad’s comment that the Beijing Winter Olympics would offer "a spectacular and colourful gala to sports enthusiasts around the world." Read MorePM Modi to inaugurate Kashi Vishwanath Corridor in Varanasi todayPrime Minister Narendra Modi will visit Varanasi in Uttar Pradesh on Monday to inaugurate Phase 1 of the Kashi Vishwanath Corridor, constructed at a cost of around ₹339 crore. Red MoreOmicron cases in India at 38; 6 states and 2 Union territories report infectionsOmicron cases in India rose to 38 after Andhra Pradesh, Chandigarh and Kerala reported their first infections and Maharashtra and Karnataka also recorded one each of the latest coronavirus variant on Sunday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/breaking-news-december-13-2021-101639356334925.html
13-12-2021||India||Omicron cases in India at 38; 6 states and 2 Union territories report infections||Omicron cases in India rose to 38 after Andhra Pradesh, Chandigarh and Kerala reported their first infections and Maharashtra and Karnataka also recorded one each of the latest coronavirus variant on Sunday.Officials said all the five Omicron patients arrived from foreign countries. Omicron has now been detected in Maharashtra (18), Rajasthan (9), Karnataka (3), Gujarat (3), Kerala (1) and Andhra Pradesh (1) and Union territories of Delhi (2) and Chandigarh (1).Omicron cases in India rose to 38 after Andhra Pradesh, Chandigarh and Kerala reported their first infections and Maharashtra and Karnataka also recorded one each of the latest coronavirus variant on Sunday.Officials said all the five Omicron patients arrived from foreign countries. Omicron has now been detected in Maharashtra (18), Rajasthan (9), Karnataka (3), Gujarat (3), Kerala (1) and Andhra Pradesh (1) and Union territories of Delhi (2) and Chandigarh (1).|#+|The World Health Organization (WHO) has said the new Omicron coronavirus strain has been found in 63 countries and will surpass the Delta variant in spreading speed.The WHO also said it is not clear yet, why the new strain is spreading so fast and that the Omicron variant might reduce the effectiveness of Covid-19 vaccines. But it is less dangerous than Delta, it added.Here are key points:1. According to health officials, a 20-year-old fully vaccinated man who came to Chandigarh from Italy to meet his relatives has tested positive for Omicron. The man landed in India on November 22 and is currently in institutional quarantine.2. The health department said in a statement issued late Sunday he “has now tested as Covid negative today”, but his five family contacts have tested positive for the virus. It’s not clear if they are also infected with the Omicron variant.3. His seven high-risk family contacts were put under quarantine and were tested for Covid-19 through the RT-PCR test. “Out of these, five have tested as positive and one as negative. The report of one family member is awaited,” said the statement.Also read | ‘It becomes clear…’: Anthony Fauci on booster dose amid Omicron threat4. A 34-year old foreign traveller, who came from Ireland to Mumbai and then to Visakhapatnam in Andhra Pradesh, has tested positive for the variant.5. The Andhra Pradesh health department said the person, who first landed in Mumbai from Ireland, was tested and found negative for Covid-19. He was then allowed to travel onward to Visakhapatnam on November 27.6. He tested positive in the second RT-PCR test in Vizianagaram and his sample was sent to the Centre for Cellular and Molecular Biology in Hyderabad for genome sequencing and the result came out as Omicron positive. The person, however, did not have any symptoms and a re-test on December 11 showed he was COVID-19 negative.Also read | UK raises Covid alert level as Omicron advances7. Kerala health minister Veena George the patient is a resident of the state who recently came from the United Kingdom. The patient's condition is stable.8. A 34-year-old man who came back from South Africa became the third person to test positive for the Covid-19 variant in Karnataka. He is in isolation and being treated in a government hospital.9. A 40-year-old man tested positive after returning to Nagpur in Maharashtra from a West African country, taking the state's tally of Omicron cases to 18.10. The Omicron variant was first detected in India in Bengaluru with two people testing positive for it comprising a South African national of Indian origin and a doctor.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/omicron-cases-in-india-at-38-6-states-and-2-union-territories-report-infections-101639354639607.html
13-12-2021||India||The Week Ahead: Formula 1 thriller, PM Modi in Gurugram and more…||Phew! What a season-ending thriller the Formula 1 race was last night. Max Verstappen with 395.5 points (10 wins, 18 podiums) pipped Lewis Hamilton (8 wins, 17 podiums) to become the 2021 world champion. So much adrenaline, yes, but so few outlets to let the excitement die down!Yet, this week is going to one hell of a rollercoaster with announcements, events and rallies to keep the news cycle running. Today and tomorrow, the Consumer Price Index (CPI) and Wholesale Price Index (WPI) for the month of November will be released. There was a marginal uptick in CPI inflation in October. After reaching a six-month high of 6.3% in May, reports Abhishek Jha, it had declined continuously up to September, when it was 4.35%. In October, CPI inflation was 4.48%. Both core CPI inflation – the non-food, non-fuel component – and non-core inflation increased in October. The core component increased from 6% in September to 6.24% in October. The non-core component increased from 2.42% to 2.63%.On the other hand, at 12.5%, WPI inflation, a measure for prices that producers face, was at its second-highest level in October since the new series began in January 2011. The highest level of WPI inflation in the new series was seen in May this year, when it was at 13.11%. It had, however, moderated to 10.66% by September before increasing again in October.We don’t know what the political and economic impact of these announcements is going to be, but the Reserve Bank’s decision last week to keep rates steady could be an indicator.Today, however, there will be a flurry of political activity. Prime Minister Narendra Modi will virtually lay the foundation stone of Umiyadham Temple in Gurgaon, besides inaugurating the multi-crore temple complex at Kashi-Vishwanath.West Bengal chief minister Mamata Banerjee will also visit Goa, where the Trinamool Congress wants to make significant inroads. The TMC is likely to witness several 'high profile' inductions with current NCP MLA Churchill Alemao widely tipped to switch sides. Over the coming weekend, Prime Minister Narendra Modi too will be in the state to celebrate 60th year of Goa's Liberation.Tomorrow, December 14, is when controversial Narcotics Control Bureau official Sameer Wankhede will be summoned by the caste certificate scrutiny committee. Later this week, Congress vice-president Rahul Gandhi will hold a rally in Dehradun to honour war veterans. There is also a nationwide bank strike expected on December 16. On December 18, PM Modi will lay the foundation of the 600 km Ganga Expressway, and India will host central Asian foreign ministers the same day.Political activity in several states may also turn out to be interesting. As relations between the Kerala government and Governor Arif Mohammed Khan get strained further, chief minister Pinayari Vijayan will meet the latter on Monday to wrinkle out differences over appointments in state universities. The CBI court in Kochi has summoned former CPI(M) legislator KV Kunhiraman and four others in connection with the twin murder of two Youth Congress activists on Wednesday. The same day the Kerala high court will hear their anticipatory bail pleas.In Jharkhand, the state’s five-day winter session begins today. This session will be crucial as the government is likely to introduce a Bill to check lynching in the state. The winter session of the Karnataka state legislature will also commence from today, and will go on till December 24. The results of the December 10 MLC polls for 25 seats of the upper house of the state legislature will be announced on December 14. The opposition is likely to corner the Basavaraj Bommai-led BJP government over charges of corruption and the contentious anti conversion laws among others.In Tamil Nadu, the Madras high court will on December 13 continue to hear the case of compliance reports of various state and central government departments on action taken to protect the LGBTQIA+ community and the NCERT is also expected to file a status report on a controversy that was flagged by the court that the education department had rightly uploaded material to sensitise people on the community but it was taken down from its website within hours due to external pressure.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/the-week-ahead-formula-1-thriller-pm-modi-in-gurugram-and-more-101639337808127.html
13-12-2021||India||Karnataka logs third case of Omicron amid growing fears of a third wave of infections||The third positive case of Omicron, the new strain of the deadly novel coronavirus that causes Covid-19, has been detected in Karnataka adding to fears of the southern state.“Third case of #Omicron has been detected in Karnataka. A 34-year-old male returning from South Africa has tested positive. He is isolated and being treated in a govt hospital. 5 primary and 15 secondary contacts have been traced and samples sent for testing,” Dr K Sudhakar, Karnataka’s minister for health, family welfare and medical education said in a post on Sunday.The detection comes amid growing fears of a possible third wave of infections in Karnataka that was left ravaged by the two earlier waves.Karnataka has steered clear of imposing any new restrictions but are trying to drive home the point of increasing vaccination coverage in the state.The third case detected in Karnataka comes amid a major lapse in monitoring of one of the two known persons with the Omicron variant, who left India for Dubai without informing the authorities. A case was registered with the police after the person left the country based on a negative Covid-19 test report, which has now come under suspicion.Chief Minister Basavaraj Bommai has announced that separate guidelines would be issued for student hostels and Covid-19 clusters as part of the state’s Covid-19 management.As on December 12, Karnataka has administered a total of 8,02,89,249 doses of Covid-19 vaccines of which the first and second doses account for 4,65,07,530 and 3,37,81,719 respectively, according to information on CoWin.The Basavaraj Bommai-led Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) government in the state has restricted people without both doses of vaccination from entering public spaces like malls, cinema theatres and even being allowed into Karnataka, especially from Kerala and Maharashtra.A RT-PCR test is mandatory for all international passengers arriving in Karnataka.Other guidelines, issued on Saturday, state that patients with mild and moderate symptoms will be discharged after 10 days from the onset of the symptom. However, in both cases the patient must be asymptomatic for the last three consecutive days, should maintain an oxygen saturation level of 95% (without oxygen support) for four consecutive days, two negative RT-PCR test reports 24 hours apart should be presented before getting discharge.The guidelines added that after discharge, home quarantine is advised for seven more days, with self-monitoring for symptoms and follow-ups from the district surveillance officer.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/karnataka-logs-third-case-of-omicron-amid-growing-fears-of-a-third-wave-of-infections-101639336864230.html
13-12-2021||India||Autonomy of probe agencies priority for Modi govt: Jitendra Singh||Union Minister Dr Jitendra Singh on Sunday urged the eight states, who have withdrawn the general consent to CBI to investigate cases, to rethink their decision.The minister emphasised that these state governments have to come clear and state whether they trust the CBI or not, or whether they trust the probe agency selectively as they continue to give selective consent in cases which suit them.Addressing the Investiture Ceremony at the CBI headquarters in New Delhi on Sunday, the minister expressed concern over eight states withdrawing the general consent to CBI to investigate cases but nevertheless holding on to the prerogative to give selective consent where it suits them, Singh called for wider introspection by the polity, the society and the nation at large whether this is the kind of propriety which is to be followed.Eight states - West Bengal, Maharashtra, Kerala, Punjab, Rajasthan, Jharkhand, Chhattisgarh, and Mizoram -- have withdrawn the general consent to investigate cases previously granted to CBI under Section 6 of the Delhi Special Police Establishment Act of 1946 (DSPE Act).The minister called upon these state governments to do a rethink on the decision of withdrawal of general consent to CBI to investigate cases.According to the statement released by the CBI, the Union Minister said that the Modi government is committed to the preservation and strengthening of the independence and autonomy of the country’s investigation agencies like the Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI).The Union Minister said irrespective of ideological beliefs, it is the collective responsibility of all to strengthen institutions like CBI, as these institutions also contribute to strengthening the nation’s resolve to achieve the ultimate goal of incorruptibility in society.The minister’s statement comes after the Lok Sabha passed the bills to extend the tenures of the chiefs of the ED and CBI, respectively, from two years to a maximum of five years. The move has been criticised by the Opposition who alleged that it will compromise the agencies’ autonomy.The statement from the agency said the Union minister reiterated that the Modi-led government’s administrative outlook is determined by three main Mantras- zero-tolerance for corruption, transparency and citizen centricity.“He said the commitment of the present government is to bring in more transparency, more citizen centricity and more accountability in governance and is indicated by its decisive initiatives to operationalize the institution of the Lokpal in the country to check corruption at high places,” read the statement.Speaking on the occasion, Director CBI Subodh Kumar Jaiswal reiterated unflinching commitment of CBI to work towards the national goal of Zero Tolerance against Corruption stating that CBI has over the years evolved into a multidisciplinary premier investigating agency of the country inducting professionals from different fields.Dr.Jitendra Singh presented the Police Medals for Meritorious Service to 47 CBI officials including Tej Prakash Devrani, Inspector, ACB, CBI, Dehradun. (Now DSP); K.Pradeep Kumar, DSP, EO-III, CBI, New Delhi (Now ASP); Pramod Kumar, DSP, AC-I, CBI, New Delhi; Thakur Singh Bhandari, Inspector, ACB, CBI, Ghaziabad among others.The Investiture Ceremony was also attended by Suresh N.Patel, Chief Vigilance Commissioner and Pradip Kumar Tripathi, Union Secretary (Personnel).||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/autonomy-of-probe-agencies-priority-for-modi-govt-jitendra-singh-101639335664040.html
13-12-2021||India||Don’t intend to take over guv’s post as chancellor of universities: Kerala CM||Kerala chief minister Pinarayi Vijayan on Sunday said his government has no intention of taking over the position of chancellor of universities in the state and added that Governor Arif Mohammed Khan’s recent outbursts over “political interference” in the appointment of vice-chancellors were “unfortunate”.“We have a healthy official and personal relation with the Governor. Both never pursued a collision course and respected each other. We request him to continue in the position of the chancellor,” the chief minister said, while talking to reporters in north Kerala’s Kannur.On October 8, the Governor sent a strongly worded letter to Vijayan, saying he was really pained over “dipping standard” of higher education sector in the state and blamed “brazen political interference” as reason for this. He reiterated his charges while talking to HT on Saturday. Khan also said “he could not bend further” and asked the government to take up the chancellor’s post if “political interference” continued.The Governor has reportedly expressed displeasure over the recent re-appointment of Prof Gopinath Ravindran as Vice-Chancellor of Kannur University for another four years and the state Assembly passing of an amendment to the University Act, which have taken away the power of the chancellor to appoint the University Appellate Tribunal.When asked about Khan’s displeasure about the reappointment of Kannur University VC, the chief minister said the Governor was the appointing authority and he signed the letter. “The Governor expressed some doubts over his re-appointment and later the advocate general met him and cleared them. I don’t know why he’s expressing concern after signing the appointment letter,” said Vijayan. He also ruled out the VC’s resignation. “I don’t know why he has some rethinking now and only he can only explain it,” Vijayan said.The CM said the government had taken note of some the concerns raised by the Governor and the state’s chief secretary and finance minister met him immediately. “I request the Governor to continue in the chancellor post. We never forced him to do any particular posting and in future also it will be our policy,” Vijayan said, adding he was forced to talk to the press since the Governor made his observations public.However, the Governor, while speaking to reporters in Delhi, said he has nothing to say to the CM through the media. “Why should we talk to each other through the media? If he wants to say something, he can talk to me. I do not want to send him any message through the media,” Khan said.He added that he requested the CM to take over as chancellor of universities as “I do not want to have a conflict with my government”.“You (CM) become Chancellor and you do whatever you want to. I am requesting them again to bring an ordinance amending the Universities Act to become Chancellor of Universities as it is not my Constitutional duty. Let them decide who wants to be Chancellor. Let them bring ordinance and I will sign it,” he said.
13-12-2021||India||HT THIS DAY: December 13, 1996 — India annex series against South Africa||Kanpur – The South African batsmen could not reach themselves beyond the time they were expected to and succumbed to a 280 runs defeat five minutes after lunch on the concluding day of the third and final Test match at Green Park here today. India, who have won this McDowell Test series 2-1, now travel to South Africa on Dec. 19 to a three-Test series and a tri tournament. Overnight 127 for five, the South Africans were left with not much hope and their later order batsmen did not raise any fresh indication of a fightback when the play resumed today morning. With India grabbing two quick wickets in the Rut 15 minutes, all the visitors could do was to delay the inevitable.The end finally came in the first ball of the second over after lunch in a bit of dramatic fashion. At 179 for eight at lunch, the South Africans were probably looking forward to extend the proceedings a little more. But Venkatesh Prasad and Srinath picked up a wicket each in the first ball of their respective overs to bring an abrupt end to the South African innings.Skipper Sachin Tendulkar opted for the new ball after 93 overs five minutes before the lunch and received the results immediately after the &minute break, Prasad’s first ball to De Villiers was an in-cutter for which the batsman had no answer. His stumps were uprooted and suddenly the end looked very near.It was the turn of Srinath to finish off the match. He had Paul Adams, the last batsman, fishing outside the off stump and man of the match Mohd Azharuddin took a simple catch at second slip. As South African skipper Hansie Cronje later admitted that it was Azharuddin who made the main difference between the two teams, at was good to see the former Indian captain being a direct party in rounding off the South African innings. The defeat loomed so la on the visitors from the third d self that there was hardly anyone around to celebrate it when their second innings folded up for 180 runs. While the spectators remained more or less passive all around the stadium, the players, too, looked unaffected. Those who picked up the stumps did it more because of the custom. And these very few who burst crackers probably were more eager to exhaust their Diwali leftovers. ‘The intense battle and conflict between the bat and the ball which has developed cricket into a great game was never there in the 125 minutes of play today except for a short period when Klusener was batting with authority. The lefthander showed some class in his unbeaten 34 before he ran out of his partners. He was also involved in the biggest stand of the day, 29 runs for the ninth wicket with Pat Symcox.Klusener hit five boundaries along the carpet. He picked up two in Srinath’s very first over of the day leaving a lot of people around wondering whether it was a wise decision to replace Kumble from the pavillion end. Spinner Sunil Joshi, just been discarded from the Test squad for South Africa, was the first one to strike. The very fourth ball of the day saw McMillan trying to sweep and Laxman, substituting for Ganguly, taking a running catch at square leg. It was a well-judged catch. Srinath came in for some punishment from new batsman Klusener, but hit back in his second over when he trapped overnight batsman Dave Richardson leg before. The batsman played back and missed. Klusener and Symcox batted together for 50 minutes before Joshi struck. Symcox came on the frontfoot and played an uppish stroke. India - Ist innings 237South Africa - Ist innings 177India - 2nd innings 400 for 7 decI. South Africa - 2nd innings 180 (Andrew Hudsosn cub (Laxman) b Kumble 31, Garry Kirsten lbw Srinath 7, Herschelle Gibbs b Prasad 5, Deryll Cullinan run out 2, Hansie Cronje c Tendulkar b Joshi 50, Brian McMillan c sub (Laxman) b Joshi 18, Dave Richardson lbw Srinath 5, Lance Klusener not out 34, Pat Symcox c and b Joshi II, Fannie de Villiers b Prasad 2, Paul Adams c Azharuddin b Srinath 1, Extras - lb 14 - 14). Fall of wkts: 1-21, 2-26, 3-29, 497, 5-109, 6-127, 7-138, 8-167, 9179. Bowling: Javagal Srinath 19.138-3, Venkatesh Prasad 11-5-25-2, And Kumble 24-11-27-1, Aashish r 13-8-10-0, Sunil Joshi 29-9-66-3||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/ht-this-day-december-13-1996-india-annex-series-against-south-africa-101639334404430.html
13-12-2021||India||Varun Gandhi pilots private member’s bill for guaranteed MSP of 22 crops||Varun Gandhi, a lawmaker from the Bharatiya Janata Party, has piloted a private member’s bill that seeks legal guarantee of minimum support price for 22 agricultural commodities with an annual financial outlay of ₹1 trillion.Gandhi, who represents Pilibhit in Uttar Pradesh in the Lok Sabha, has been asking the government to take a lenient view of the farmers’ concerns. Last month, he wrote to Prime Minister Narendra Modi to consider paying ₹10 million as compensation to the families of farmers who died during the year-long protest against the farm laws that have now been repealed, and accept the famers’ demand for statutory guarantee of MSP.The bill – The Farmers Right to Guaranteed Minimum Support Price Realisation of Agri-Produce Bill, 2021 – has been submitted to Parliament, but is yet to be tabled. Any member of Parliament who is not a minister can move a private member’s bill. A decision to admit a private bill rests with the chairman in case of Rajya Sabha and the speaker in case of the Lok Sabha. These bills are taken up during the second half of the session on Friday.The bill proposes that MSP is set at a profit margin of 50% over the comprehensive cost of production as recommended by the Swaminathan Committee in 2006. “Any farmer realising a price less than the above declared MSP price shall be entitled to compensation equal to the difference in value between the price realised and end guaranteed MSP,” the proposed bill envisages.It provides for codification of various crops based on quality parameters, ensuring that the farmers do not have to resort to distress sales if crops do not meet predefined quality criterion. The bill encourages crop diversification and recommends the most suited crop to be cultivated for each sub-district, thereby reducing the environmental cost of agriculture and promoting crop patterns suitable for long-term ecological sustainability.It calls for setting up a separate department under the farm ministry to implement the law. The draft legislation calls for establishing well-equipped procurement centres – one for every five villages – and creation of supply chain infrastructure, which includes warehouses and cold storages to help farmers seamlessly store and sell their produce after harvest.On November 19, Modi in a televised address to the nation announced the repeal of the contentious farm laws, and the bill to sanction the repeal was passed in the ongoing winter session of Parliament. Farmers’ unions that have called off their stir are demanding a statutory guarantee of MSP.Gandhi put out a tweet about the bill. “India’s farmers & her governments have long debated the agricultural crisis, in & out of commissions. The time has come for an MSP law. I’ve created & submitted to Parliament what I believe to be an actionable piece of legislation. I welcome any critique of it,” he said in the tweet.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/varun-gandhi-pilots-private-member-s-bill-for-guaranteed-msp-of-22-crops-101639334343635.html
13-12-2021||India||1st cases in Kerala, Chandigarh, Andhra; Omicron tally 38||A total of five new cases of the Omicron variant of Sars-Cov-2 were reported across India — one each in Andhra Pradesh, Chandigarh, Karnataka, Kerala and Maharashtra – on Sunday, taking the national tally of the heavily mutated variant to 38.All the five people who tested positive on Sunday had arrived from abroad, according to state officials.The new Omicron infections detected on Sunday in Andhra Pradesh, Chandigarh and Kerala were the first in the respective regions, while the tally in Karnataka and Maharashtra now stands at three and 18, respectively. Omicron infections have also been reported in three other regions – nine in Rajasthan, three in Gujarat, and two in Delhi.Experts across the world have warned that there is a high possibility that the Omicron variant, which was first detected in South Africa in November-end, may lead to a new wave of infections wherever it gains a foothold. Whether the variant leads to milder disease is unclear, but early data appears to strongly suggest that this variant is a more resistant to vaccines, and evidence is now mounting that it could surpass the Delta variant’s transmissibility.In Kerala, state health minister Veena George said early on Sunday that the first Omicron case has been confirmed in the state. In a post on Facebook, she said the male patient, a native of the state, had recently returned from the United Kingdom, one of the countries seeing a high volume of Omicron infections. She added that the patient’s condition was stable and that his wife and mother had also tested positive and that their samples have been sent for genome sequencing, results of which are expected in few days.In Karnataka, officials confirmed the third positive case of Omicron in the state in a man who returned from South Africa. “Third case of #Omicron has been detected in Karnataka. A 34-year-old male returning from South Africa has tested positive. He is isolated and being treated in a govt hospital. Five primary and 15 secondary contacts have been traced and samples sent for testing,” Dr K Sudhakar, Karnataka’s minister for health, family welfare and medical education said.In Maharashtra, the first such infection in Nagpur on Sunday took the state’s tally to 18. Senior officials from the Nagpur Municipal Corporation said that the infected person, a 40-year-old who arrived in Nagpur on December 5 from Burkina Faso, had 30 close contacts, all of whom have tested negative for Covid-19.A 20-year-old man, who landed in Chandigarh from Italy on November 22, tested positive for Omicron on Sunday. “His whole genomic sequencing report was received late night on December 11 and found positive for Omicron variant,” senior officials told PTI. However, by Sunday evening, the man had already tested negative for Covid-19, as had his seven high-risk relatives, officials said.The Omicron case in Andhra Pradesh was a 34-year-old who arrived in Mumbai from Ireland in November end. The man tested negative in an RT-PCR test in Mumbai and was subsequently allowed to travel to Visakhapatnam on November 27. “On conducting a re-test at Vizianagaram, the test was found positive... His sample was for genome sequencing and it was Omicron positive,” informed Andhra Pradesh Health Department.The Omicron variant was first detected in India in Bengaluru with two people testing positive for it comprising a South African national of Indian origin and a doctor.On Saturday, the Centre had asked states to maintain a strict watch on the situation, with focused district-level measures for containment of clusters of new cases in light of the new variant.The Union health ministry has repeatedly emphasised the importance of testing and surveillance, testing of influenza-like illness and severe acute respiratory infection cases through rapid antigen tests (RAT) and retesting by RT-PCR of symptomatic RAT negative tests.“Rapid antigen test may not be as accurate as RT-PCR tests but it is a beneficial tool where caseload is high,” said Dr Amita Jain, head of microbiology department at King George’s University, Lucknow.India’s daily new Covid-19 cases have hovered under 10,000 for the past few weeks, the lowest since the pandemic took grip of the country in mid-2020. A total of nearly 34.7 million people have been so far been infected with the disease in the country, more than 474,000 of whom have died. Till Sunday, more than 1.32 billion doses of the Covid-19 vaccine have been administered across India to 814.5 million people (299.6 million partially vaccinated and 514.9 million having received both shots of the vaccine). Around 31.9% of the country’s adults are now partially vaccinated while another 54.8% are fully vaccinated, data shows.With inputs from Mumbai, Chandigarh, Bengaluru and Thiruvananthapuram||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/1st-cases-in-kerala-chandigarh-andhra-omicron-tally-38-101639334282892.html
13-12-2021||India||Despite show of unity, Opposition candidate loses key Rajya Sabha panel election||For the past two weeks, opposition parties have been showcasing their united might in protests, both inside and outside the Rajya Sabha. But their candidate suffered an embarrassing defeat in an internal election of the Upper House due to lack of support.An election was held on December 10 for two vacancies in the parliamentary committee on welfare of other backward classes (OBCs). V Sivadasan of the Communist Party of India (Marxist) was the opposition candidate, while the Bharatiya Janata Party fielded two candidates, Dineshchandra Jemalbhai Anavadiya and Sakaldeep Rajbhar, for the two posts.The election, in which only Rajya Sabha members participated to fill the vacancies from their House, saw a poor response from the opposition. As a result, both seats went to the BJP candidates.“Even the candidate, Sivadasan, didn’t come to vote,” said a parliamentary official.“I was busy in some urgent matter in Kerala,” Sivadasan said. “We lost the election as not many people voted for us.” He lost by just 12 votes, Sivadasan said.His party’s floor leader in the Rajya Sabha, Elamaram Kareem, one of the 12 suspended members of the House, added: “It was a Friday and not many people were present in the House. Moreover, 12 of us couldn’t vote due to suspension.”On Thursday and Friday, the opposition had paused its protests both outside and inside Parliament due to the tragic death of chief of defence staff General Bipin Rawat, his wife and 11 other armed forces officers in a helicopter crash that shook the nation.The OBC panel, headed by BJP’s Rajesh Verma, looks into various aspects of OBC welfare and meets regularly to seek reports from various government wings about reservation and fulfilment of OBC quotas.“The latest defeat underlines that the opposition remains fractured at crucial occasions,” an opposition leader said on condition of anonymity.He pointed out that although the government didn’t have numerical majority in the Upper House in 2019, it could easily push the Triple Talaq Bill, the legislation to bifurcate Jammu and Kashmir into union territories and the scrapping of the Article 370 in the House.The National Democratic Alliance, led by the BJP, counting on its friendly parties such as Biju Janata Dal and All India Anna Dravida Munnetra Kazhagam, now enjoys a marginal majority in the Upper House.
13-12-2021||India||Karnataka reports third Omicron case, says government||Karnataka has reported its third case of Covid’s Omicron variant after a South Africa returnee tested positive, state health minister K Sudhakar said on Sunday. “Third case of #Omicron has been detected in Karnataka. A 34-year-old male returning from South Africa has tested positive. He is isolated and being treated in a govt hospital. 5 primary and 15 secondary contacts have been traced, and samples sent for testing,” Sudhakar said in a post on Sunday.The detection comes amid growing fears of a possible third wave of the Covid-19 pandemic in Karnataka, which was left ravaged by the two earlier waves.Karnataka government has steered clear from imposing any new restrictions but are trying to hammer the point of increasing vaccination coverage in the state.The third case detected in Karnataka comes amid a lapse in monitoring one of the two known persons with the Omicron variant, who left India for Dubai without informing the authorities. The police registered a case after the person left the country based on a negative Covid-19 test report, which has now come under suspicion.Meanwhile, chief minister Basavaraj Bommai has announced that the government would issue separate guidelines for student hostels and Covid clusters as part of the Covid-19 management.As of December 12 (4 pm), Karnataka has administered a total of 80,289,249 doses of covid-19 vaccination, of which the first and second doses account for 46,507,530 and 33,781,719 respectively, according to information on Cowin.The Basavaraj Bommai-led Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) government restricted people without both doses of vaccination from entering public spaces like malls, cinema theatres. Restrictions are strict for people entering Karnataka, especially from Kerala and Maharashtra.RT-PCR test is mandatory for all international passengers arriving in Karnataka.Other guidelines, issued on Saturday, state that patients with mild and moderate symptoms will be discharged after 10 days from the onset of the symptom. However, in both cases the patient must be asymptomatic for the last three consecutive days, should maintain an oxygen saturation level of 95% (without oxygen support) for four consecutive days, two negative RT-PCR test reports 24 hours apart should be presented before getting discharged.The guidelines added that after discharge, home quarantine is advised for seven more days, with self-monitoring for symptoms and follow-ups from the district surveillance officer.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/karnataka-reports-third-omicron-case-says-government-101639334163722.html
13-12-2021||India||More items recovered from man who stole Maradona’s watch||More belongings of Diego Maradona have been recovered from the house of Wazid Hussein, who was arrested on Saturday for stealing a limited edition Hublot watch engraved with the football legend’s signature from a Dubai storage and fleeing back home to Assam’s Sivasagar, police said on Sunday.“Ref recovery of Hublot Watch of Late Diego Maradona, more memorabilia have been recovered. (It includes) jacket, track pant, T-shirt, shoes, toy doll, squash racket, watch, lighters, cap and iPads,” GP Singh, Assam’s special director of police, tweeted on Sunday. “The recovery has been made at the instance of Wazid Hussein detained yesterday by Sivasagar Police.”Assam police arrested Hussein, a resident of Sivasagar district who worked as a security guard in the United Arab Emirates, after Dubai police requested Indian law enforcement authorities to catch the fugitive. They conducted searches after questioning the man and found several more items stashed at Hussein’s in-laws’ place at Khumatai in Moranhaat area of Charaideo district.“We have recovered the items and informed our higher authorities. They are in contact with Dubai police,” said Rakesh Raushan, superintendent of police in Sivasagar district. “We are seeking details of the items that were stolen from the store in Dubai where the belongings of the football legend were kept.”Hussein was on Saturday produced before a court, which sent him to a five-day remand, Raushan said. Further investigations are ongoing and Hussein’s family is cooperating with the authorities.Maradona was seen wearing two Hublot Big Bang watches during the FIFA World Cup 2010, when the watchmaker launched its Maradona Big Bang Chronograph Limited Edition.Hussein worked as a guard at a private company in Dubai since 2016. The company apparently stored Maradona’s belongings. In August, he asked for permission to return to India, saying his father was unwell. Hussein allegedly stole several belongings of the late Argentinian footballer before returning home.Hussein is not responding to interrogation, Raushan said. “He is not sharing details on how he managed to steal such important items and came back to India, hiding them from all those security systems in international airports,” the police officer said. “We are a bit surprised why he didn’t try to sell them. Our interrogation and investigation are going on.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/more-items-recovered-from-man-who-stole-maradona-s-watch-101639334043999.html
13-12-2021||India||'As stopgap, India must boost vulnerable people with available vaccines'||Expert groups – the National Technical Advisory Group on Immunisation (NTAGI) and the National Expert Group on Vaccine Administration for Covid-19 (NEGVAC) – are studying scientific evidence and deliberating on the need for booster vaccine shots against Covid-19 in the country. The Christian Medical College (CMC), Vellore is conducting a study to look at which of the two main vaccines available in India – Covishield and Covaxin – can be a better booster shot. The study could not find an adequate number of trial participants who have taken Covaxin, prompting Dr Gagandeep Kang, a leading researcher and microbiologist from CMC, to put out an appeal on social media. “Folks in Vellore, Chennai, Bangalore or Delhi willing to consider participating please email mnm.cmcvellore@gmail.com,” she said. On Sunday, HT spoke to Dr Kang about the ongoing study and the available evidence on boosters. Excerpts: What is the status of CMC Vellore’s ongoing study on boosters?We started recruitment for the trial in September. We are taking people who have received two doses of either Covishield or Covaxin and then randomly assigning them to receive a booster dose, more than three months later. The idea is to prepare for a programme for India on boosting. We want to make sure that mixing and matching is okay and have some idea of what the performance is like. We had no problem in getting people who have got Covishield, but we had a problem finding enough people who have received two doses of Covaxin and willing to be in the trial. The study was getting delayed since we are having trouble finding people in Vellore, so we are now looking at recruiting people outside Vellore, who we can run the study on and follow up on the phone. If we finish recruitment fast, we get the results fast. While it was okay to keep doing things at the pace we were doing them earlier, now with Omicron coming, I really think we can shorten the time to results. It’s an advantage for all of us.The Covishield results are ready, but because it’s a trial of both vaccines, we can’t unblind it until we finish the Covaxin arm.Going by data emerging from different parts of the world, which vaccines are most suited for boosters?Right now, all we are measuring is antibody responses. And if we look at antibody response measurement, the Messenger RNA (mRNA) vaccines give the highest level of antibodies either as primary series or as boosters. So, you have to have the mRNA vaccines somewhere in the mix. For instance, if you boost with AstraZeneca on an mRNA-base vaccine, that also gives a high value. Having an mRNA vaccine in the mix of either primary or booster series seems to be showing up as important. But remember that this is only antibody response and we not talking about the T cell response here.Then there are protein vaccines, but we don’t know what the antibody levels will be like with the Indian protein vaccines. But hopefully, we will have that data soon.And then there are vectored vaccines and inactivated virus vaccines. Covaxin in the clinical trial seems to have higher antibodies than the Chinese inactivated vaccine.With the emergence of the new Omicron variant, can we afford to wait for Indian data to roll out a booster policy?For the immunocompromised, we should have rolled out a third shot dose or the booster, months ago. I have been saying this for a while now. The immunocompromised need better vaccination strategies, they need more doses. You can’t use a one-size-fits-all strategy, when you know that certain groups have extra vulnerability.We don’t have the mRNA vaccines in India. But we can think about the priority population first by giving them what is available. By then we will have data from our study being conducted at CMC Vellore, among healthy people, and it will tell us which is a better vaccine to boost with.So, if India does allow boosters, Covishield or Covaxin can be used for third doses?Every vaccine will boost, it’s a question of which vaccine is the best. If you have vaccines that give a high and long-lasting response, then you will need to boost less often. So that’s what we should aim for. But in the absence of data, in the absence of knowledge about what might be best for our population given our prior exposure, it’s difficult to make a final policy now.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/as-stopgap-india-must-boost-vulnerable-people-with-available-vaccines-virologist-gagandeep-kang-101639334042884.html
13-12-2021||India||Rajya Sabha productivity improves in second week of winter session||Even as some opposition parties continued to demand revisiting the suspension of 12 MPs from the Upper House, leading to disruptions and adjournments, productivity in the Rajya Sabha in the second week showed an increase of 5.6% over the previous week of the ongoing winter session.Productivity in the House stood at 52.50% in the second week, with the House transacting business for 14 hours and 57 minutes of the scheduled sitting time of 28 hours and 30 minutes, an official of the Rajya Sabha secretariat said.“During the first two weeks of the current session, the productivity of Rajya Sabha has risen to 51.10% further to somewhat improved functioning during the second week. Of the total scheduled sitting time of 56 hours for the first two weeks, 28 hours were lost due to disruptions and forced adjournments,” the secretariat said in a statement.Productivity of the House stood at 49.7% in the first week of the winter session that began on November 29.Disruptions in the current session have primarily been set off by the opposition’s demand to revisit the decision to suspend 12 MPs for the duration of this session after the House passed a motion accusing them of causing damage to House property, jostling with security staff and marshals, and raising slogans on the last day of the monsoon session in August. The opposition parties also protested when the government did not agree to their demand to allow a discussion during the passage of the bill to repeal the farm laws.Since the beginning of the session, Rajya Sabha has spent 34.25% of functional time on legislative business, passing a total of five bills, including two in the first week.Bills that were passed in the Upper House include the Assisted Reproductive Technology Bill, 2021; the Surrogacy (Regulation) Bill, 2020; the Farm Laws repeal Bill; the Dam Safety Bill; and the National Institute of Pharmaceutical Education and Research (Amendment) Bill, 2021.“Nine hours and 48 minutes were spent debating these Bills in which 56 members took part. A total of 21.89% of the functional time has been spent on starred questions,” the secretariat official said, requesting anonymity.On Monday, the House will take up for consideration and passage the High Court and Supreme Court Judges Salary and Condition of Services (Amendment) Bill, 2021.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/rajya-sabha-productivity-improves-in-second-week-of-winter-session-101639333924671.html
13-12-2021||India||Explaining the decline in women’s role in workforce||Women’s participation in India’s labour force is low and has been declining this century, official employment surveys have shown. However, these surveys – the Employment and Unemployment Survey (EUS), and the Periodic Labour Force Survey (PLFS) – do not sufficiently explain the reasons for this trend or offer clues on how this trend can be changed. A survey conducted by the Center for the Advanced Study of India (CASI) at the University of Pennsylvania has tried to solve this problem. The survey was conducted in January-August 2019 in around 15,000 households in four cities: Dhanbad in Jharkhand, Indore in Madhya Pradesh, Patna in Bihar, and Varanasi in Uttar Pradesh. The survey was done in the core city, and their peripheral rural and urban areas. While its results may not apply uniformly across the country, they offer important pointers to understand India’s falling female labour force participation. Here are four charts that explain this.Women’s LFPR is declining, especially because of rural womenLabour force participation is captured in a number called the Labour Force Participation Rate (LFPR, or the share of people either working or looking for a job). Women’s LFPR in the latest PLFS before the pandemic (2018-19) was just 18.6% compared to 55.6% for men. PLFS and its earlier version – the EUS – show that women’s LFPR was not always this low. It has fallen over time, especially because of a decline in the LFPR of rural women. However, rural women’s LFPR continues to be higher than urban women’s.Official surveys offer some clues, but not definitive answerThe PLFS does offer some clues for these trends. Marriage, for example, significantly reduces women’s LFPR. In the 21-25 years and 26-30 years cohorts, unmarried women are twice as much likely to participate in the labour force as married women. This suggests that the expectation of household work after marriage negatively impacts women’s participation in the labour force.However, the PLFS does not ask reasons for not working or not looking for work. It is possible that women are willing to work, but the available jobs are not suited to their requirements. Moreover, a working paper based on the PLFS published in October by Jyotirmoy Bhattacharya, who teaches economics at Ambedkar University, suggested that people could be misreporting their employment status (reported by HT on November 1: https://bit.ly/3rZAVdk). Unemployed people – those looking for work but not finding one – possibly report that they are simply not looking for work, and end up being misclassified as out of labour force. LFPR may not represent the true size of the labour force in that case.Similarly, the PLFS also shows that for married women, agriculture is the most preferred sector for work. This explains why rural women’s LFPR is higher than urban women’s. Still, we can only hazard guesses on why agriculture is the preferred sector for married women.In a published article detailing the survey’s results on LFPR, the researchers – Deepaboli Chatterjee and Neelanjan Sircar of the Centre for Policy Research (CPR) – suggest that the reason why women are engaged in agriculture is because such jobs fit these needs of flexibility and proximity. “As India urbanises, labour market opportunities fitting those criteria are in shorter supply, causing women to leave or become unwilling to enter the labour market,” they said, explaining the falling LFPR. Any attempts to fix the trend in women’s LFPR must, therefore, keep India’s urbanisation trends in mind. Moreover, that even help available with household work does not change women’s willingness to work suggests that societal expectations have a role in women’s need for flexible and proximate work.Employment improves women’s role in decision-making, but not in financial decisionsDoes employment change women’s role at home? Although not a jobs survey in itself, the National Family Health Survey (NFHS) tells us an important thing about this. Women’s decision-making power in the household is more if they are employed, according to its unit-level data for the 2015-16 NFHS analysed by HT. To be sure, this does not necessarily mean that employment improves women’s decision-making power. It is also possible that the converse it true: in households where women have decision-making power, women are more likely to be employed.The CASI survey puts an important qualification on this trend. It shows that even when women are making the decision on a matter, they may not be involved in its finances, even if they are employed.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/explaining-the-decline-in-women-s-role-in-workforce-101639333923098.html
13-12-2021||India||Saving Western Ghats ecosystem need of hour, say experts in Karnataka||Experts have indicated that the cost of calamities is far higher than the loss of economic activities in the fragile Western Ghats that traverse through four states, including Karnataka, which has once again refused to declare the region as eco-sensitive in the garb of saving livelihoods.Karnataka chief minister Basvaraj Bommai on December 4 continued to follow the footsteps of his predecessors in refusing to go ahead with the Kasturirangan committee report, which proposed that around 37% of the roughly 60,000 square km area be declared as eco-sensitive area (ESA).The Western Ghats, a chain of mountains that run parallel to India’s western coast, traverses through Gujarat, Maharashtra, Goa, Karnataka, Kerala and Tamil Nadu and is around 1.4 lakh square kms and a 1600 km stretch. Of this, around 20,600 kms falls in Karnataka.“Considering the climate changes (evident from recurring floods, droughts, landslides, increasing temperature, etc), which would affect the livelihood of all people (irrespective of poor or rich) and hurt the nation’s economy. It would be prudent to conserve the fragile ecosystems, which costs less compared to the situation prone to calamities (with changes in the climate) than spending money /resources for restoration/rejuvenation,” Dr TV Ramachandra, from the Centre for Ecological Sciences in the Indian Institute of Science told Hindustan Times.To be sure, all other states had earlier rejected the Prof. Madhav Gadgil report, calling it “anti-agrarian”, necessitating the setting up of another committee under Dr Kasturirangan, which experts said, was a ‘diluted’ version that tried to find a balance in saving livelihoods as well as the rapidly denigrating ecology.This year alone, Karnataka suffered rain-related losses of up to ₹11,916.30 crores in October and November, which have been one of the wettest years in the state’s history, indicating the impacts of climate change.There were 282 landslides in 2020 in this region as against 161 in 2019, registering a 75% increase in Karnataka due to deforestation, unscientific road construction in the southern state alone between 2019 and 2020, according to government data, Hindustan Times reported on April 8.The data had prompted the environment ministry in the state to reconsider the practice of awarding tenders based on lower costs and consider a more scientific approach in the construction of public infrastructure that does not block natural drainages or deforestation, which would further loosen the soil. Ramachandra said that only 15% of the state’s geographical area is forested, compared to 21% in 1985.Experts said that the large-scale developmental projects like irrigation, reservoirs, dams, economic zones, townships and land conversion have led to the loss of precious green cover, leaving forest cover and conservation only within protected areas.Natural forests show a decline from 7.5% in 1985 to 5.7% around 2019. During the same period, moist deciduous forests came down to 4.1% from 5.7%, and dry deciduous forests have nearly halved from 4.0% to 2.2According to government data, public infrastructure in this fragile region accounts for 2.4% today as against 0.4% in 1974.Dr K. Ullas Karanth, one of India’s most well-known tigers, wildlife and environmental conservationists, said that in a country like India, denying people’s legitimate aspirations for developmental activities may not be possible.However, he does say that the focus should remain on restricting destructive activities.“Such destructive activities include infrastructure projects as well as local people’s exploitation of nature through illegal hunting, excessive livestock grazing, forest product collection and increasingly a new wave of forest encroachments unleashed by the mindless and never-ending application of the Forest Rights Act,” he said.Karanth also questioned the quality of conservationists and the misapplication of funds by forest departments. “I think this demarcation has to be a careful scientific effort for each Protected Area. Well-intentioned but coarse grain declarations at macro-scales do more harm than good. Earlier overreach by courts and government-appointed experts who identified very large human-dominated landscapes outside the protected areas as the eco-sensitive zone has escalated to the present situation where locally conservationists are being aggressively attacked by everyone else and are losing heart, the forest departments are emasculated and even within areas where the Indian Forest Act and Wildlife Protection are applicable flagrant violations are taking place, he added.Joseph Hoover, a wildlife activist and former member of the state board for wildlife said that the continued destruction of the western ghats will impact nearly 220 million people living in the southern states alone.“We are frequently ravaged by extreme climate events, but our short-sighted policymakers haven’t assessed the impact of climate change. As they live in comfort, they haven’t felt the pinch yet! Most development works could be attributed to electoral promises made by local leaders. Some politicians push for unsustainable projects to earn kickbacks and favour industrialists and business tycoons. Unfortunately, it is being done to the detriment of nature and people,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/saving-western-ghats-ecosystem-need-of-hour-say-experts-in-karnataka-101639333863932.html
13-12-2021||India||Modi to inaugurate Kashi Vishwanath Corridor in Varanasi||Prime Minister Narendra Modi will inaugurate the grand Kashi Vishwanath Corridor, spread over 550,000 sq ft, in Varanasi on Monday.The corridor that connects the Ganga and Kashi Vishwanath temple has been decked with festive lights, flowers and garlands for the inauguration ceremony.Soon after arriving in Varanasi, Modi will offer prayers at the Kaal Bhairav temple and reach the corridor gate on the banks of the Ganga. After alighting from a boat at the Lalita Ghat jetty, he will collect Ganga water and enter the corridor. He will then walk to the Kashi Vishwanath temple and offer prayers, officials said.Amid the chanting of mantras, Modi will worship the deity and offer prayers to Kashi Vishwanath as part of the inauguration ceremony, the officials said, asking not to be named.Over 500 million people will watch the ceremony to be telecast live and streamed on social media platforms, including YouTube, Bharatiya Janata Party national general secretary Tarun Chugh said.Around 3,000 guests, including Vedic scholars, priests and Hindu ascetics from all 11 other jyotirlingas of Lord Shiva will attend the ceremony, Chugh said. Jyotirlingas are devotional representations of Lord Shiva.Different types of marble and stone have been used in building the Kashi Vishwanath Corridor, which has seven grand gates, one of them opening on Jalasen Ghat. A jetty has been built at Lalita Ghat, where devotees will alight from boats. They can then enter the corridor through the Jalasen Ghat gate. Devotees may board boats from any of the ghats of the Ganga to reach the corridor.The Kashi Vishwanath Corridor has 24 buildings equipped with state-of-the-art facilities. These include tourist facilitation centres, a Vedic library, museum, and a space for sacred scriptures, among others. It also has the Mumukshu Bhavan (salvation home) close to the gate near the Ganga.There is a hi-tech command and control centre with cameras installed in every nook and corner for round the clock surveillance to ensure foolproof security, said A Satish Ganesh, commissioner of police, Varanasi.“It is matter of great satisfaction that the Kashi Vishwanath Corridor is ready,” divisional commissioner Deepak Agarwal said. “It is all set to be inaugurated by Prime Minster Narendra Modi on December 13.”“The entire Kashi Vishwanath Dham has been decorated with flowers for the inaugural ceremony,” said Sunil Verma, chief executive officer of Shri Kashi Vishwanath Special Area Development Board (SKSADB), who oversaw the implementation of the project.The facilities for tourists were improved without tampering with the original structure of the temple, said Bimal Patel, architect of the corridor project.“The work includes construction of a temple chowk (square), Varanasi city gallery, museum, multi-purpose auditoriums, hall, devotees’ facilitation centre, public convenience, salvation home, Godowlia gate, bhogshala, shelter for priests and sevadars (volunteers), a space for sacred books, and others,” Patel said. “About 70% of the 5.50 lakh sq. ft area of the corridor will have green cover.”Festive spiritA festive fervour is palpable among residents of Varanasi, considered a holy city by Hindus.“No one thought that the Kashi Vishwanath temple complex could be made so grand by expanding it,” said Rajbahadur Patel, a resident of Khajuri in Varanasi. “But Prime Minister Modi has made it a reality.”“Kashi Vishwanath Dham is divine, spiritual and grand. The devotees, including kanwarias, will not have to wait for hours for darshan of Baba Kashi Vishwanath because the corridor is spacious and sprawling,” said Ballu Vijay Yadav, who runs a tea stall in Pandeypur area, named it NaMo tea stall in 2014 fter Modi. “It is a gift to devotees, including kanwariyas.”The Kashi Vishwanath Corridor has added to the glory of Hinduism, said Ravi Gupta, a resident of Pandeypur.Vivek Singh Raghuvanshi, resident of Tewar village in Cholapur area of Varanasi, expressed happiness over construction of the corridor. “It will make pilgrimage comfortable and will boost religious tourism.”After laying the foundation stone of the Kashi Vishwanath Corridor in March 2019, Modi had said the project will be a model for “protection and preservation” of temples, showcasing a combination of modern technology with ancient faith.The Prime Minister, who represents Varanasi in the Lok Sabha, will remain in the city for two days. He will preside over a conference of BJP chief ministers on the Banaras Locomotive Works campus on Tuesday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/modi-to-inaugurate-kashi-vishwanath-corridor-in-varanasi-101639332426481.html
13-12-2021||India||Controversial text in CBSE class 10 question paper irks many; Cong’s Priyanka Gandhi says BJP ‘endorses retrograde views||Several people on social media called out a controversial reading passage in the Central Board of Secondary Education (CBSE) class 10 English question paper, expressing shock and anger over the text. The text, which was shared widely on Twitter, was under the ‘reading’ section in the question paper and was criticised for being ‘anti-women’ and expressing regressive notions about families and the role of women.Meanwhile, the Congress party’s general secretary Priyanka Gandhi Vadra shared a copy of the question paper on Twitter and said that the BJP government “endorsed” the views on women expressed in the passage.Also read | Sonia Gandhi demands apology from CBSE; board drops controversial question“Unbelievable! Are we really teaching children this drivel? Clearly the BJP Government endorses these retrograde views on women, why else would they feature in the CBSE curriculum?,” she tweeted, tagging the CBSE and Prime Minister Narendra Modi.Unbelievable! Are we really teaching children this drivel?Clearly the BJP Government endorses these retrograde views on women, why else would they feature in the CBSE curriculum? @cbseindia29 @narendramodi?? pic.twitter.com/5NZyPUzWxz Congress MP Jothimani wrote to CBSE’s chairperson Manoj Ahuja expressing shock about the question paper. She said that the question paper contained “Misogynistic, Anti-women, anti-child rights ideas” in her letter.  “I was shocked to read through the passages given in the reading comprehension section of the Grade 10 CBSE exams held on 11.12.2021,” she wrote in her letter, pointing out to some statements in the text like “the emancipation of the wife destroyed the parent's authority over their children" and "Children and servants were...taught their place”. I have written to the Chairperson of CBSE @cbseindia29 urging him to recall the paper and debrief it with the students. Such regressive ideas must find no place in the 21st century. https://t.co/ozQOXGIKWy pic.twitter.com/KXZt8124Iq “These statements only serve to perpetuate misogynistic ideas which were used to oppress women and they are in opposition to the very ethos of the Constitution which is centered on Equality and Social Justice,” she further said.  She expressed concerns that such passages in a question paper would normalise “regressive misogynistic” thoughts and said that the emphasis on ‘parental authority on children’ came from an outdated understanding of child development.  Urging the CBSE to recall the paper, she also suggested a “sensitization” session in every CBSE grade 10 classroom “to debrief why such regressive ideas must find no place in the 21st century.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/controversial-text-in-cbse-class-10-question-paper-irks-many-cong-s-priyanka-gandhi-says-bjp-endorses-retrograde-views-101639326464514.html
