14-12-2021||India||‘Integration of armed forces top priority’: Rajnath Singh||Integration of the armed forces to enhance their effectiveness and reshape the conduct of future operations will progress seamlessly, and achieving the target of jointness will be a top priority for the government, defence minister Rajnath Singh said on Tuesday, while paying tribute to India’s first chief of defence staff (CDS) General Bipin Rawat and 12 others who got killed last week in a chopper crash near Coonoor in Tamil Nadu.Rawat was spearheading the theaterisation drive to best utilise the military’s resources for future wars and operations. The CDS’ shocking demise is likely to have implications for the ongoing military reforms, including theaterisation, and the government will have to move swiftly to announce a succession plan, officials said.Singh’s comments indicate that the current vacuum created by Rawat’s demise will not hit India’s theaterisation plans.Singh said the process of “integration and modernisation of the tri-services” was initiated with the creation of the post of CDS and the department of military affairs (DMA), and it will be carried forward to achieve the goals as early as possible.Rawat took over as CDS on December 31, 2019, after serving as the army chief for a full three-year term. He held the four-star rank for almost five years, making him the longest-serving four-star general in India.As the CDS, he wore multiple hats --- he was the permanent chairman of the chiefs of staff committee (COSC), headed DMA, and was the single-point military adviser to the defence minister.In November, Rawat asked the three services to expedite their ongoing studies on the creation of theatre commands and submit comprehensive reports within six months. The deadline for submitting the reports was advanced from September 2022 to April 2022.The current theaterisation model to enhance tri-service synergy seeks to set up four integrated commands --- two land-centric theatres, an air defence command and a maritime theatre command.All eyes are now on who will be appointed as Rawat’s successor at a time when the theaterisation plan is at a critical juncture and needs a man with a vision to carry it forward. The next CDS has his work cut out for him.Army chief General Manoj Mukund Naravane became the senior-most military officer in the country after Rawat’s demise. Indian Air Force chief Air Chief Marshal Vivek Ram Chaudhari and navy chief Admiral R Hari Kumar are both around two years junior to him.There is a strong possibility of Naravane being named the new CDS if the government follows the seniority principle, the officials said. Army vice chief Lieutenant General CP Mohanty and Northern Army commander Lieutenant General YK Joshi, who are both course mates, are the most senior officers in the army after General Naravane.Naravane is due for retirement next April but that may not happen in the changed circumstances, as previously reported. Many in the security establishment believe that the first two or three CDS appointments should be from the army as the security challenges the country faces are along the borders with China and Pakistan.However, making top appointments is the government’s prerogative. The possibility of deep selection cannot be ruled out as was done when Rawat was appointed army chief almost five years back. He superseded two top generals --- Lieutenant Generals Praveen Bakshi and PM Hariz.
14-12-2021||India||Snowfall alert for Kashmir, Himachal, Uttarakhand, rainfall in southern states: IMD||The India Meteorological Department (IMD) on Tuesday issued snowfall and rainfall alerts for 12 states and Union territories (UTs) over the next five days. These weather developments will take place owing to a western disturbance that is expected to make an impact on the western Himalayan region from the night of December 15, its bulletin said.One western disturbance as a cyclonic circulation currently exists over north Pakistan and its neighbourhood, the Met department said, adding that it is likely to move away starting tonight, thereby paving the way for stronger lower-level northwesterly or northerly winds setting in over the plains of northwest India between December 17 afternoon and 20.Also Read | Pollution in Delhi creeps back to ‘very poor’, temperature stays lowBesides the snowfall and rainfall alert, the IMD said minimum temperature in most parts of northwest and adjoining central India, including Delhi, Punjab, Haryana, north Rajasthan, Uttar Pradesh, Chandigarh and north Madhya Pradesh, will remain between 6-10 degrees Celsius till December 17. The mercury will start to drop in these regions by 2-4 degrees Celsius after December 17, the Met department added.Here are some key IMD alerts for 12 states and UTs till December 19:1. Isolated places in Kashmir and Ladakh will receive light rainfall or snowfall till December 17. The same weather alert has been issued in Uttarakhand and Himachal Pradesh between December 15 and 17.2. The IMD has forecasted isolated light rainfall over northern parts of Punjab, Haryana and west Uttar Pradesh on December 16.3. Light to moderate rainfall at isolated or scattered places is very likely over Tamil Nadu, Puducherry and Karaikal (also in Puducherry) till December 19, while the same weather has been forecasted over Kerala, Mahe (in Puducherry), and Andaman and Nicobar Islands over the next five days. Light to moderate rainfall has also been forecasted over south Andhra Pradesh till December 16.4. The Met department has predicted dense fog in morning hours in isolated pockets over Assam, Meghalaya, Tripura, Mizoram, Nagaland and Manipur on December 15 and 16.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/snowfall-alert-for-kashmir-himachal-uttarakhand-rainfall-in-southern-states-101639501930985.html
14-12-2021||India||Congress postpones Rahul Gandhi's proposed Dec 28 Mumbai rally amid Omicron spread||The Congress on Tuesday postponed a proposed rally of party leader Rahul Gandhi in Maharashtra capital Mumbai as cases of Omicron variant of coronavirus disease (Covid-19) continued to rise in the city.Congress' Mumbai chief Bhai Jagtap told reporters a decision was taken in this regard following discussions with state officials and senior party leaders in New Delhi.Jagtap said the new date of Gandhi's rally in Mumbai will be announced in a few days. “Rahul Gandhi's rally is postponed but not cancelled. The threat of the coronavirus pandemic and its new variant Omicron was taken into consideration before arriving at this decision,” he was quoted as saying by news agency PTI.Jagtap added that a call on fresh dates will be taken after the Omicron situation improves in Mumbai.A day ago, Jagtap had moved the Bombay high court against the Uddhav Thackeray government for not granting permission to the rally. In the petition, the Mumbai Congress chief had sought nod to use the park ground between December 22 and 28 for the meeting on the occasion of the 137th foundation day of the party. Congress is one of three constituents of the Maha Vikas Aghadi (MVA) government in Maharashtra. Jagtap withdrew his plea unconditionally on Tuesday.Last week, Maharashtra deputy chief minister Ajit Pawar had said the state administration needs to think about granting a nod to Gandhi's visit and rally in Mumbai amid the spread of the new strain.Meanwhile, eight more cases of Omicron were reported in Maharashtra on Tuesday, with Mumbai accounting for seven of them. With this, the cumulative tally of the Covid-19 variant in the state has risen to 28 - the highest in the country.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/cong-postpones-rahul-gandhi-s-proposed-dec-28-mumbai-rally-amid-omicron-spread-101639499870395.html
14-12-2021||India||HT This Day: Dec 15, 2006 – PM addresses Diet, seeks N-backing||Madhur SinghTokyo- PRIME MINISTER Manmohan Singh sought Japan's support for India's civilian nuclear programme during an address to the joint session of the Diet, Japan's Parliament, on Thursday. Japan, the only country on which nuclear bombs have been dropped, is a key member of the 45-nation Nuclear Suppliers Group (NSG). India seeks a waiver of NSG legislation to permit it to begin civilian nuclear with NSG nations.The nuclear issue is one of the main points on the Prime Minister's agenda during his visit, and his forceful exhortation in the Japanese Parliament seems to have ensured that Japan will announce its stand on Friday - the penultimate day of the PM's tour. "Like Japan, India sees nuclear power as a viable and clean energy source to meet its growing energy needs," Singh said in his address to the House of Representatives and House of Councillors. After stressing India's need for nuclear energy, he said: "We seek Japan's support in helping put in place innovative and forward-looking approaches of the international community."Singh then deviated from his pre-written speech to point out that "India's commitment to universal nuclear disarmament remains unshaken". The deviation seems to have been prompted by a remark of the Speaker of the lower house, Yohei Kono, asking India to "mutually cooperate to abolish nuclear weapons", and seems to have been aimed at pre-empting pressure from Japanese Prime Minister Shinzo Abe, with whom he is scheduled to hold a bilateral meeting on Friday.Singh then deviated from his pre-written speech to point out that "India's commitment to universal nuclear disarmament remains unshaken". The deviation seems to have been prompted by a remark of the Speaker of the lower house, Yohei Kono, asking India to "mutually cooperate to abolish nuclear weapons", and seems to have been aimed at pre-empting pressure from Japanese Prime Minister Shinzo Abe,with whom he is scheduled to hold a bilateral meeting on Friday.Singh was warmly received in the Diet, and his speech was preceded with and succeeded by a standing ovation. Former Japanese Prime Minister Junichiro Koizumi, Japanese Foreign Minister Taro Aso and Minister for Economics, Trade and Industry Akira Amari were among those present. Singh's comments on India and Japan's shared values, their commitment to multi-polarity in world affairs and efforts to promote peace and stability in Asia and the world also drew applause.In his speech, Singh touched on terrorism, UN reforms and the need to enhance bilateral defence and economic cooperation. Describing terrorism as a common threat to peace and harmony in open societies, he said "We cannot prevail in the fight against terrorism unless we work together".Besides energy security, both countries have an equal stake in promoting defence cooperation, including for protection of sea-lanes to secure trade and energy flows, Singh said. He emphasised that economic relations must remain the bedrock of Indo-Japan relations. He said the two countries share many complementarities, which they are seeking to use to forge a Comprehensive Economic Partnership Agreement.The speech addressed all the issues articulated in the eight-fold Initiative for Japan-India Global Partnership that was announced when Koizumi visited India in April 2005. Some major announcements are expected on Friday after the delegation-level discussions. But the most important announcement is likely to be of Japan's stance on the nuclear issue, and indications are that it will be positive.Pointing out that the idea of a "new partnership" between India and Japan has "found its moment today", Singh said he was truly inspired by Japan's progress each time he visited this country.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/ht-this-day-dec-15-2006-pm-addresses-diet-seeks-nbacking-101639503076532.html
14-12-2021||India||Arriving at Delhi airport on or after December 20? Steps to pre-book RT-PCR test||Starting December 20, passengers arriving at six major airports, from countries on India’s ‘at-risk’ list for the Omicron variant of Covid-19, will have to compulsorily pre-book their RT-PCR test, the ministry of civil aviation announced on Tuesday.Also Read | Omicron: From December 20, pre-booking RT-PCR tests mandatory for arrivals from ‘at-risk’ countriesThe six airports where the said rule will come into effect in the first phase are Delhi, Mumbai, Kolkata, Chennai, Bengaluru and Hyderabad, the ministry further said. Starting Dec 20th, all international travelers from 'at-risk' countries, arriving at airports in Delhi, Mumbai, Kolkata, Chennai, Bengaluru, and Hyderabad will have to compulsorily prebook an RT-PCR test.#Omicron pic.twitter.com/cnVxAuxy5THere's how visitors can pre-book slots online for their RT-PCR test at Delhi's Indira Gandhi International (IGI) Airport:(1.) Visit www. newdelhiairport.in and look for ‘Book Covid-19 Test' on the top panel.(2.) Next, select travel type (in this case, international arrival).(3.) Fill up all personal details such as name, email ID, mobile number, Aadhaar card/passport number, address, appointment date, time slot etc.(4.) After entering all the details, select the type of test (in this case, RT-PCR, though Rapid PCR testing is available as well)(5.) Follow the instructions displayed on the screen, and book a slot for your RT-PCR test on arrival at the airport.For an RT-PCR test, a traveller will have to pay ₹500, while the cost of a Rapid PCR test, on the other hand, is ₹3500. In the case of former, test results will be available within six-eight hours, while the corresponding duration for the latter is just 30 minutes to one-and-a-half-hours. The testing facility is available for everyone travelling to or via the IGI Airport.Additionally, passengers have the option to reschedule their appointment or cancel the booking altogether.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/omicron-steps-to-pre-book-rt-pcr-test-for-arrivals-at-delhi-airport-101639498513963.html
14-12-2021||India||Govt earned over ₹3.71 lakh cr in FY21 from VAT on petrol, diesel: Sitharaman||The central government earned more than ₹3.71 lakh crore in fiscal 2020-21 alone from taxes on petrol and diesel, Union finance minister Nirmala Sitharaman told Parliament on Tuesday. This would reach a total of ₹8.02 crore lakh crore if the amount earned in the last three fiscals from taxes is calculated.The excise duty or value added tax (VAT) on petrol was hiked from ₹19.48 per litre as on October 5, 2018, to ₹27.90 as on November 4, 2021. During the same period, the VAT on diesel rose from ₹15.33 per litre to ₹21.80, the finance minister said in a written reply to the Rajya Sabha."The central excise duties, including cesses collected from petrol and diesel, during the last three years are - ₹2,10,282 crore in 2018-19; ₹2,19,750 crore in 2019-20 and ₹3,71,908 crore in 2020-21," Sitharaman informed Parliament.Also Read | Over 8.5 lakh Indians gave up citizenship in past 7 years till Sept 30: GovtBetween October 2018 and July 2019, the excise duty on both fuels, however, witnessed a dip. The VAT on petrol dropped from ₹19.48 per litre as of October 5, 2018, to ₹17.98 as of July 6, 2019. The excise duty on the equal quantity of diesel decreased from ₹15.33 to 13.83 during the same period.Since February 2, 2021, VAT on both fuels have been seeing an upward swing before the Centre on November 3 -- a day before this year's Diwali -- announced a slash in the amount. Excise duty on petrol was reduced by ₹5 a litre, while it was cut by ₹10 a litre on diesel.Several states, with a majority being the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP)-ruled ones such as Karnataka, Bihar, Uttar Pradesh, Tripura and Gujarat, among others, announced cuts in excise duty on petrol and diesel on November 3 itself. Towards the end of the previous month, non-BJP states, including Rajasthan and Chhattisgarh, also slashed VAT on petrol and diesel prices.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/govt-earned-over-rs-3-71-lakh-cr-in-fy21-from-vat-on-petrol-diesel-sitharaman-101639493548773.html
14-12-2021||India||Assam resident shot twice by NSCN-IM near Manipur border, hospitalised: Police||SILCHAR: A 21-year-old resident of Assam’s Cachar district was shot by members of insurgent group National Socialist Council of Nagaland, Isak-Muivah (NSCN-IM) near the Assam-Manipur border on Tuesday morning, Assam police officers said. The man was shot twice on the leg and has been hospitalised.The incident took place at Chamtilla area of Lakhipur assembly constituency in Cachar district at about 11am on Tuesday.Kulapradeep Bhattacharya, sub divisional police officer, Lakhipur, said the firing was reported by local residents who complained that some NSCN (IM) cadres tried to get them to pay up.“A 21-year-old resident named Gaimei Pao sustained severe leg injuries after NSCN (IM) members open fired. He has been rushed to a nearby tea garden hospital,” Bhattacharya said. Senior Cachar district police officers including superintendent of police Ramandeep Kaur rushed to the spot and spoke to local residents about the incident.The Chamtilla area where Tuesday morning’s firing was reported is located near Barak River along the Assam-Manipur border.Kulapradeep Bhattacharya said there are reports that these groups from Manipur attemp to come into Assam mostly to collect food. “We are investigating the reason behind today’s firing incident,” he said.NSCN-IM, which is known to extort money that it calls a ‘tax’, recently started raising its demands ahead of Christmas. Some residents on Tuesday opposed the higher ‘tax rate’. The shooting was aimed at scaring people into paying, a local resident said on condition of anonymity.Rajdeep Goala, a former legislator who lives in Lakhipur constituency, said, “Insurgent groups have been active from the Bhuvan Hill range to Dima Hasao border. Local traders are victims but they cannot oppose it because of security reasons.”Goala said there was a need to establish more camps of security forces along the border with Manipur to stop extortion and illegal trade.“There are areas along the border where illegal trade is possible and even drugs can be supplied from Manipur to Assam. In the past, there were camps of security forces but later those were withdrawn. We have written to the home department several times and requested them to open camps here. Today’s incident shows that our demand is legitimate,” Goala said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/assam-resident-shot-twice-by-nscn-im-near-manipur-border-hospitalised-police-101639497984427.html
14-12-2021||India||Global Technology Summit: Jaishankar, UK PM talk about challenges and threats||Democracies are facing unique challenges from technology and countries will have to find the balance between using technology for progress and tackling vulnerabilities and threats created by it, external affairs minister S Jaishankar said on Tuesday.India, with its size and ambitions, must have robust reliable national capacities even as it works to forge partnerships with others in the realm of technology, Jaishankar said at the Global Technology Summit organised by the external affairs ministry and Carnegie India.British Prime Minister Boris Johnson, who delivered a special message at the summit, described the UK and India as natural partners with their shared culture of innovation and entrepreneurial spirit. He noted that he and his Indian counterpart Narendra Modi had agreed earlier this year to “work closely on technology and the rules that will shape the coming age”.India and the UK are working together on many projects, including on 5G and telecoms, and Britain is working with the Tata Group and Godrej on green technologies that will power both countries to net zero, Johnson said. Technology is also a key part of the India-UK Roadmap for 2030 and the two sides will help shape a “new technological age based on the principles of freedom, openness and peace”, he added.Jaishankar described technology as a “double-edged sword” and said, “Democracies in particular are facing some unique challenges stemming from technology. “As we contemplate the future of technology, the role of innovation, the importance of sustainability and inclusion, and the needs to localise emerging technologies, it is also worthwhile to reflect on the difference that international partnerships make.” While technology has opened up new vistas of progress, it also helped create greater vulnerabilities and threats, he pointed out. “A recurring theme in global governance has been to find the right balance,” he said. In a globalised and technology-driven world, the mastering of key domains has become an expression of power and technology is now a “metric to measure a nation’s standing like never before”, Jaishankar said. With the growing importance of technology, it is important to ascertain whether the technology is “trusted, transparent, reliable and resilient”, he noted. “A country with the size of ours and with the potential and ambitions that we have, it cannot be that we do not have robust reliable national capacities, which are continuously upgraded,” Jaishankar said. “If you are open to a point where those capacities get hollowed out...it actually makes you a less effective player.”The number one purpose for technology partnerships for India is to increase capabilities, and at the same time, the country needs to continuously strengthen its domestic supply chains. “We cannot have economic growth without these strengths and without commensurate employment growth. Jobles||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/global-technology-summit-jaishankar-uk-pm-talk-about-challenges-and-threats-101639497565420.html
14-12-2021||India||Sonia holds meet with Oppn leaders over Parl strategy, Pawar, Raut in attendance||Senior Opposition leaders on Tuesday met at Congress interim president Sonia Gandhi’s residence to discuss a joint strategy in Parliament during the ongoing winter session.NCP supremo Sharad Pawar, J&K National Conference patron Farooq Abdullah, Shiv Sena leader Sanjay Raut and DMK leader TR Baalu were among the leaders who met Gandhi at her 10, Janpath residence.Former Congress chief Rahul Gandhi and leader of Opposition in Rajya Sabha Mallikarjun Kharge also attended the meeting.Raut later said a similar meeting will be on Wednesday as well. “Our main agenda was Opposition unity in a state-wise manner. This was the first meeting. We'll meet again tomorrow. Sharad Pawar will also be there,” the Sena MP was quoted as saying by news agency ANI.Regarding the Parliament logjam over suspension of 12 Rajya Sabha MPs and the government asking them to express regret over the matter, Raut said, “No apologies, no regrets, we will fight.”Abdullah said the meeting was about the country. “We talked about how we can work together and move forward and how we can take the country out of this difficulty. A good agreement has been formed among us,” he added.News agency PTI quoted sources as saying that the Congress chief had invited Sena supremo Uddhav Thackeray and DMK’s MK Stalin. Both deputed their leaders, Raut and Baalu, respectively.Earlier in the day, opposition MPs in the Lok Sabha and Rajya Sabha held a protest march from the Gandhi statue in the Parliament complex to Vijay Chowk with Rahul Gandhi alleging that the Opposition is not being allowed to raise issues in Parliament, which is now merely a building and a museum."Wherever the Opposition is trying to raise issues, they are suppressed. The government does not allow us to raise issues. This is the murder of democracy. We want to raise issues against the government, but we are not allowed to do so," he told reporters.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/sonia-holds-meet-with-oppn-leaders-over-parl-strategy-pawar-raut-in-attendance-101639495967310.html
14-12-2021||India||Quickly adaptable vaccine platforms key as new variants emerge: NITI Aayog's VK Paul||Amid the looming threat of the Omicron (B.1.1.529) Covid-19 variant, NITI Aayog member for health Dr VK Paul on Tuesday said the country should have vaccine platforms that are “adaptable quickly” in view of the changing nature of the virus. He also warned against a situation that might emerge when vaccines may become less effective to fight the virus.“There is a potential scenario that our vaccines may become ineffective in emerging situations. In the wake of the Omicron (in the last three weeks) we have seen how such doubts have come up,” he said.“Therefore, there is a need for us, and I think that is a scientific underpinning for which there must be attention and resources and focus, that we have to be sure about having vaccine platforms that are adaptable quickly,” he further said.“This is the possibility that we need to tweak for us to remain in the game, with changing nature of the variants remains valid. How soon can we create a vaccine which is using the same platform but is now targeted at the variant of the day,” he added. He made the remarks while addressing a summit by the industry body Confederation of Indian Industry (CII).Also read | Maharashtra reports 8 new cases of Omicron. None had int'l travel historyFurther, he termed the global access to vaccines as a “core and fundamental” issue. “The foremost priority right now is to make sure that there is universal coverage of the vaccine and no one is left behind,” he said.He also said the production of vaccines to meet global demand was still possible. “We have 3.6 billion people who are still not vaccinated. I guess they need 7.2 billion doses (of the vaccine) together and at the current rate of production, it is well within our grasp,” he said.Noting that the development of drugs “will not go out of fashion” for the Covid-19 pandemic or the next potential pandemic, he said the pharmaceutical industry should press more towards developing drugs.“Drug development will not go out of fashion for the next viral epidemic or pandemic that we may face and of course the antimicrobial resistance challenge is also crying for drug solutions. We should examine how and in which way our drug industry/pharmaceutical industry can have a roadmap and thinking and risk-taking attitude to move towards developing drugs,” he said.Dr Paul said the previous pandemics could be localised because of the lack of travel a few decades ago but the current disease had a “devastating effect”. He also called upon the industry to invest more in science. He commented that the national investment in science in India was “all public money” and called upon the industry to create an ecosystem for more investments in science.The senior doctor said non-pharmaceutical interventions such as facemasks, social distancing and other Covid-appropriate behaviours were critical in fighting the pandemic along with vaccines. “I think the emphasis on Covid-appropriate behaviour and such social interventions must also continue. Mask wearing has to become a habit,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/quickly-adaptable-vaccine-platforms-key-as-new-variants-emerge-niti-aayog-member-vk-paul-101639495815734.html
14-12-2021||India||President Kovind to visit Bangladesh, his 1st foreign trip since Covid-19 outbreak||President Ram Nath Kovind’s first foreign trip since the start of the Covid-19 pandemic to Bangladesh to participate in the country’s 50th Victory Day celebrations reflects the importance attached to the bilateral relationship, foreign secretary Harsh Shringla said on Tuesday.Kovind, who was invited by his Bangladeshi counterpart Abdul Hamid to represent India at the celebrations as a guest of honour, will be the only foreign dignitary participating in the event in Dhaka on December 16.The president’s three-day visit begins on Wednesday and he will hold meetings with Hamid, Prime Minister Sheikh Hasina and foreign minister AK Abdul Momen. Kovind is scheduled to interact with Bangladeshi freedom fighters and a visiting team of Indian military veterans who fought in the 1971 war that led to the emergence of Bangladesh from erstwhile East Pakistan.Kovind, who will be accompanied by a delegation that includes Union minister of state for education Subhas Sarkar and MP Rajdeep Roy, will visit places of cultural and historical importance and interact with civil society and the Indian community, Shringla told a media briefing.The president’s first foreign trip since the Covid-19 outbreak “signifies the importance both countries attach to this visit”, Shringla said. The visit comes at a time when Bangladesh is celebrating the golden jubilee of its independence and the two sides are commemorating 50 years of diplomatic ties and the “great victory over the Pakistan Army and their unconditional surrender to our joint forces” on December 16, 1971, he noted.“Bangladesh is a central pillar of our Neighbourhood First policy. It is also a relationship where this policy intersects with elements of our Act East policy,” Shringla said.India was the second country to recognise Bangladesh as a nation even before the formal declaration of independence. A total of 1,660 Indian troops died in the campaign to liberate Bangladesh. Bangladesh is India’s largest trade partner in South Asia, and two-way trade grew by 14% despite the pandemic, going from $9.46 billion in 2019-20 to $10.78 billion in 2020-21.Kovind will start his visit on Wednesday by paying tribute at the National Martyrs Memorial. “The Pakistan Army in its genocidal campaign during the nine-month struggle for liberation killed three million people and committed horrific atrocities. The memorial honours those who died and suffered during this period,” Shringla said.The president will also visit the Bangabandhu Memorial Museum to honour Sheikh Mujibur Rahman, the father of the nation, before holding a delegation-level meeting with his Bangladeshi counterpart. This will be followed by the meetings of the Bangladeshi prime minister and foreign minister with Kovind. The Bangladeshi president will host a banquet for Kovind on Wednesday.On December 16, Kovind will be the guest of honour at the Victory Day Parade at the national parade ground in Dhaka. A 122-member tri-services contingent from the Indian armed forces will participate in the parade. Kovind will also be the guest of honour at a Victory Day reception hosted by the Bangladesh president at the Parliament to mark the conclusion of Mujib Borsho or the year-long celebrations to mark the birth centenary of Mujibur Rahman.The last visit by an Indian president to Bangladesh was made in 2013 by the late Pranab Mukherjee. Shringla noted that Prime Minister Narendra Modi and external affairs minister S Jaishankar had also visited Bangladesh this year.In response to a question on whether India’s controversial citizenship law and sectarian violence during this year’s Durga Puja in Bangladesh had impacted ties, Shringla said the relationship was currently going through a “golden chapter”.“Having visited the country just a short while ago, I would completely dispel any sense or any perception that there is any unease in the relationship...The relationship is an extraordinary one,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/president-kovind-to-visit-bangladesh-his-1st-foreign-trip-since-covid-19-outbreak-101639495585431.html
14-12-2021||India||News updates from HT: Don't need character certificate from BJP, says Mamata Banerjee, and all the latest news||Here are today’s top news, analysis, and opinion at 9pm. Know all about the latest news and other news updates from Hindustan Times.‘I’m Brahmin, don't need character certificate from BJP': Mamata Banerjee in GoaThe West Bengal chief minister made the remarks while addressing a gathering in Goa where she is on a two-day visit ahead of the assembly polls in 2022. Read moreCase filed against Missionaries of Charity-run home in Vadodara over forced conversion claimsPolice said an FIR was lodged after the chairman of the NCPCR visited the 'Children Home for Girls' run by the Missionaries of Charity and found some anomalies at the institute. Read moreNIA makes first arrest after taking over Mundra port drug seizure caseThe National Investigation Agency (NIA) has arrested an Afghan national from South Delhi in connection with the 3,000 kg Afghan heroin seizure from Mundra port in September, officials said. Read moreCDS chopper crash: Group Captain Varun Singh remains critical but stable, says IAFThe officer, the lone survivor of the December 8 helicopter crash in Tamil Nadu, is on life support system, the force said. Read moreVirat Kohli will play the ODI series against South Africa, says BCCI officialDoubts remain over Kohli playing in the ODI series that follow the three-Test series in South Africa, though it is likely to be cleared on Wednesday when he addresses the media. Read moreAnkita Lokhande and Vicky Jain’s first wedding video out: Watch bride do a happy dance after jaimala ceremonyActor Ankita Lokhande and businessman Vicky Jain are now married. A video from their jaimala ceremony was shared online by a paparazzo account. Read more||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/news-updates-from-ht-don-t-need-character-certificate-from-bjp-says-mamata-banerjee-and-all-the-latest-news-101639492964576.html
14-12-2021||India||Passengers from ‘at risk’ countries to 6 cities need Covid test booking from Dec 20||NEW DELHI: Passengers from over a dozen ‘at risk’ countries landing in India’s six metros after Sunday midnight should have booked RT-PCR tests before they take off, the ministry of civil aviation said on Tuesday. The new rule will apply to passengers to arriving in Delhi, Mumbai, Bengaluru, Chennai, Hyderabad and Kolkata from December 20.The ministry has told aviation regulator Directorate General of Civil Aviation (DGCA) to advise airlines to check that passengers have made the RT PCR test booking when they board the aircraft. According to new measures introduced at airports from 1 December, travellers from countries notified as ‘at risk’ have to follow additional measures on arrival in India, including post-arrival testing. The list of countries classified ‘at risk’ are South Africa, Brazil, Botswana, China, Ghana, Mauritius, New Zealand, Zimbabwe, Tanzania, Hong Kong, Israel and countries in Europe including the United Kingdom.The aviation ministry, however, underlined that passengers should be allowed to board the flights even if they haven’t booked the RT-PCR tests in advance but it will be the responsibility of the airline concerned to escort them to the registration counter for RT-PCR testing at the destination airport.“Air Suvidha portal will be modified to allow passengers to mandatorily pre book the RT-PCR test if they are coming from the countries ‘at risk’ or have visited ‘at risk; countries in the last 14 days. Link to the concerned airport website would be provided in the Air Suvidha platform which would be displayed to passengers while filling up the self declaration form (SDF),” read the civil aviation ministry order said. HT has reviewed the document.The document indicated that the requirement will be rolled out at other airports at a later stage. “To stabilise the system and to ensure that the passengers would not have any problem in pre- booking , payment etc, it may be implemented in six metro cities namely, Delhi, Mumbai, Kolkata, Chennai, Bengaluru and Hyderabad in the first phase,” the order said.“In case any passenger is having any difficulty in pre- booking, they may not be denied boarding, but would be the responsibility of the airlines to identify and accompany such passengers to the registration counters at the airport for testing,” the ministry directive said.The aviation and health ministries have mandated contactless self-declaration at Air Suvidha Portal to minimise the risk of passengers infected with Covid-19, particularly the Omicron variant, entering the country.These passengers are mandated to declare their current health status prior to boarding on the Air Suvidha Portal along with the required documents (copy of Passport, PCR negative certificate from a test conducted within 72 hours of departure and their vaccination certificate.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/passengers-from-at-risk-countries-to-6-cities-need-covid-test-booking-from-dec-20-101639493423712.html
14-12-2021||India||Keeping up with UP | In the land of Mandal and Mandir, what will voters go for?||In August 1990, the National Front government at the centre, headed by late Prime Minister Vishwanath Pratap Singh implemented a quota for socially and educationally backward classes. It was a political masterstroke. A Rajput himself, here Singh was, espousing the cause of the OBCs, a move opposed on the streets and in the Supreme Court. On November 16, 1992, a nine-member bench upheld the government order, the same year the Babri Masjid was demolished in Ayodhya on December 6.
14-12-2021||India||‘I’m Brahmin, don't need character certificate from BJP': Mamata Banerjee in Goa||Trinamool Congress (TMC) supremo Mamata Banerjee on Tuesday said that she does not need a “character certificate” from the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP). The West Bengal chief minister made the remarks while addressing a gathering in Goa where she is on a two-day visit ahead of the assembly polls in 2022.Maintaining her attack on the BJP, Banerjee said that she wants the party to "end in Goa" and also stressed on everyone coming together to defeat the ruling dispensation in the western state.“I didn't come to counter you, I don't want outsiders to control Goa…I also belong to a Brahmin family, I am a Brahmin. I don't need to take a character certificate from [the] BJP,” Banerjee was quoted as saying by news agency ANI.She also took to her Twitter account and posted a small video in which she was seen chanting Hindu hymns. “I pray to God for my dear Goans and for the people of our beautiful country…Come, let us unitedly fight all divisive forces and usher in a New Dawn for Goa!” Banerjee tweeted along with the video.
14-12-2021||India||Armed forces get new anti-airfield weapon, counter-drone systems||In a needed push to self-reliance in India’s defence manufacturing sector, defence minister Rajnath Singh on Tuesday handed over to the armed forces locally developed military hardware including a smart air-launched weapon, anti-drone systems and an advanced radar countermeasure system, officials familiar with the development said.The Defence Research and Development Organisation (DRDO) had developed the weapons and systems. Singh also handed over transfer of technology (ToT) agreements covering six systems, including the coastal surveillance radar, to seven public and private sector companies to bolster their defence manufacturing capabilities at an event organised in New Delhi as part of the ongoing country-wide celebrations to mark the 75th year of India’s celebration. This comes at a time when the government is encouraging self-reliance in the defence sector through a slew of policy decisions. The notable systems handed over to the armed forces include the smart anti-airfield weapon (SAAW) that can target enemy airfield assets such as radars, bunkers, taxiways and runways; and counter-drone systems to swiftly detect, intercept and destroy small drones that pose a security threat. SAAW has a range of 100 km. The anti-drone system would give the military both “soft kill” and “hard kill” options to tackle the new and fast-emerging aerial threats, the officials said. The first refers to jamming the hostile drone, while the second involves a laser-based kill system. The drone threat was highlighted by the June 27 attack targeting the Jammu air force station, the first-ever offensive use of drones to hit an Indian military facility. The steps taken by the government to boost indigenisation include increasing foreign direct investment (FDI) from 49% to 74%, notifying two lists of 209 weapons and systems that cannot be imported and creating a separate budget for buying locally made military hardware. Singh identified the development of a hypersonic cruise missile as a key focus area.Last year, India took the first steps towards developing a new class of ultra-modern weapons that can travel six times faster than the speed of sound (Mach 6) and penetrate any missile defence, with DRDO carrying out a successful flight test of the hypersonic technology demonstrator vehicle (HSTDV) for the first time.Only the United States, Russia and China have developed technologies to field fast-manoeuvring hypersonic missiles that fly at lower altitudes and are extremely hard to track and intercept. Mach 6 translates into a speed of 7,408kmph.India could develop hypersonic cruise missiles powered by air-breathing scramjet engines in about four years, the officials said. Such engines operate efficiently at hypersonic speeds and allow supersonic combustion.
14-12-2021||India||Explained: What two important bills to regulate surrogacy and ART mean for India||On December 8, Rajya Sabha passed two important bills — The Assisted Reproductive Technology (Regulation) Bill, 2020, and The Surrogacy (Regulation) Bill, 2019. The Assisted Reproductive Technology (ART) bill was introduced in Lok Sabha on September 14, 2020, and the Surrogacy bill was introduced on July 15, 2019.
14-12-2021||India||CDS chopper crash: Group Captain Varun Singh remains critical but stable, says IAF||Group Captain Varun Singh is critical but stable, the Indian Air Force (IAF) said on Tuesday, giving latest update on the health condition of its officer, the only survivor of the December 8 helicopter crash near Coonoor in Tamil Nadu's Nilgiris district, which led to the demise of 13 out of 14 people on board, including General Bipin Rawat and his spouse Madhulika Rawat.Also Read | ‘Never lose hope’: Group Captain Varun Singh, who survived crash, in letter to his school“Group Captain Varun Singh's medical condition continues to be critical but he is stable. He is on life support system in Bengaluru Command Hospital,” news agency ANI quoted IAF officials as saying.
14-12-2021||India||Case filed against Missionaries of Charity-run home in Vadodara over forced conversion claims||A case has been registered against a charity-run home for girls in Gujarat’s Vadodara city over reports of alleged forced conversion of inmates.Police said a first information report (FIR) was lodged after the chairman of the National Commission for Protection of Child Rights (NCPCR) visited the 'Children Home for Girls' run by the Missionaries of Charity and found some anomalies at the institute.Assistant commissioner of police SB Kumpawat said the NCPCR chief then wanted a complaint filed against the home following which a committee was formed to investigate the matter.Gujarat | An FIR has been registered against 'Children Home for Girls' run by the Missionaries of Charity in Vadodara for alleged forced conversionNCPCR chairman visited the children’s home in August this year and found some anomalies at the institute: ACP SB Kumpawat pic.twitter.com/hLQwvCeHRE“The committee visited the place on December 10 and submitted the report. Based on the report, a case has been registered,” he was quoted as saying by news agency ANI.However, a nun working at the institute has refuted the allegations of conversion and said children only follow the prayers they read."Nothing like that is happening. We do prayers and they (children) follow us. No conversion has taken place," said Sister Rose Teresa.A Times of India report quoted the nun as saying that the home takes care of orphan children and those rescued from child labour.The report further said that police spoke about allegations that girls were asked to read the Bible and some marriages of those belonging to other communities being conducted as per Christian rituals.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/case-filed-against-charity-run-home-in-vadodara-over-forced-conversion-claims-101639490679789.html
14-12-2021||India||President Kovind to visit Bangladesh to take part in 50th Victory Day celebrations||Foreign secretary Harsh Vardhan Shringla said on Tuesday President Ram Nath Kovind will pay a state visit to Bangladesh from December 15 to 17.This visit is in context of 50th Victory Day celebrations in Dhaka for which the Bangladesh President Abdul Hamid invited Kovind to represent India as a guest of honour, Shringla said.The Victory Day celebrations commemorate the win over the Pakistani Army and their unconditional surrender to our joint forces of India and Bangladesh on December 16, 1971, the foreign secretary added.“The President will be accompanied by minister of state for education Subhas Sarkar and MP Rajdeep Roy. It's of great historical significance that 2021 commemorates golden jubilee of Bangladesh's independence, it commemorates 50 years of establishment of diplomatic relations between our two countries,” Shringla was quoted as saying by news agency ANI.During the visit, Kovind will hold a delegation-level meeting with his Bangladesh counterpart. “Prime Minister Sheikh Hasina and foriegn minister AK Abdul Momen will also call on the President,” he further said.Shringla also dispelled about reports of tension with Bangladesh. He said, “Having visited the country a short while ago, I'd completely dispel any perception that there's unease in relation. It is an extraordinary one, a close relationship, based on our multi-faceted ties,” he said.“It's based on ties of history, culture, language. So, it's bound by people-to-people ties which I think can't be replicated very often in other cases. Those ties are at high point and I think that relationship born out of very strong leadership-level vision and guidance,”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/prez-kovind-to-visit-bangladesh-to-take-part-in-50th-victory-day-celebrations-101639488327732.html
14-12-2021||India||High court orders Odisha government to put off state film awards, review entries||BHUBANESWAR: The Orissa high court has ordered the state government to put off the film awards scheduled later this week after a movie director alleged that the organisers violated the rules and selected two movies that are remakes of a Korean and Punjabi movie.Justice Arindam Sinha on Monday stayed the 31st edition of Odisha film awards on a petition by Odia film director Bobby Islam who alleged that two films selected for the awards were ineligible under rule 3(b) in Orissa State Awards for Films Rules, 2010 that allows only original films to be considered.“The ceremony scheduled to be held tomorrow will stand postponed. State, through its concerned functionary, will re-evaluate all entries for awards. On such re-evaluation, the result will be made known to the petitioner and all concerned. In the event petitioner reports to this Court that his grievance has been taken care of or there is required adjudication, the ceremony will be held post order of disposal of the writ petition.” the court’s order on Monday said.A state government official said the awards ceremony was proposed for December 16 and 17.The film awards were announced last month.Two of them - ‘Khushi’ and ‘Golmal Love’ - named for awards in different categories were not original ones, Bobby Islam told the high court.“While Khushi is remake of 2013 South Korean film “Hope” directed by Lee Joon-ik, Gomaal Love is a copy of 2012 Punjabi film Carry On Jatta directed by Smeep Kang. Both films are carbon copies of the originals,” Bobby Islam said in his petition. He said the jury selected ‘Khushi’ for best actor, best actress, best editor and best child artiste while Golmaal Love was selected as best comedy movie.Like the Korean film ‘Hope’ in which the female protagonist, a young school girl named Hope, gets sexually abused by a male stranger and undergoes a major surgery, Khushi released in 2019, is based on the rape of a schoolgirl, Khushi, which leaves the survivor and her family completely shaken.Islam in his petition alleged that though his film ‘Chabirani’, was based on real-life events of 1980s and was an original, yet the jury selected two movies that werre in violation of the Orissa State Awards for Films Rules, 2010. His movie is based on the gangrape and murder of journalist Chhabirani Mohapatra in a riverbed of Jagatsinghpur district triggering a massive national outrage against the state’s JB Patnaik government.Last month, Islam and an actor of the movie ‘Chhabirani’ attempted suicide in front of Naveen Niwas to protest alleged favouritism in film awards.During the hearing, the state government said Islam’s movie contained immoral sexually explicit acts and had the potential of creating a furore if granted the award. “It could have spoilt the social harmony of the society as the so-called perpetrators of the story of the film belonged to a particular caste/community,” the state government’s reply said.The Odisha State Film Awards instituted in 1968 and given by state culture department has been dogged by controversies in the past.In 2017, noted film actress Mahesweta Ray questioned the choice of the jury to give her best supporting actor award for the movie ‘Dele Dhara Katha Sare’ saying her role in the movie ‘Chini’ was much more meaningful. “I believe that the role I played in Chini was more significant and robust than the other. There should be transparency in the selection procedure and lists of jury members for the last 15 years needs to be declared to understand the judging capability of the jury and bring some clarity about the basis on which the awards are decided,” said Ray.In 2015, questions were raised about the government asking former IAS officer Sanjeev Hota to head the jury though he hadn’t been associated with making films.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/high-court-orders-odisha-government-to-put-off-state-film-awards-review-entries-101639488075007.html
14-12-2021||India||Omicron: From December 20, pre-booking RT-PCR tests mandatory for arrivals from ‘at-risk’ countries||The ministry of civil aviation announced on Tuesday that in view of rising cases of the Omicron variant of Covid-19, passengers arriving from ‘at-risk’ countries at six major airports will be, from December 20, required to mandatorily pre-book their RT-PCR tests.Also Read | India’s Omicron tally mounts to 49 after Delhi, Rajasthan report 8 cases“Air Suvidha portal would be modified to allow the passengers to mandatorily pre-book the RT-PCR test if they are coming from the countries ‘AT-RISK’ or have visited such countries in the last 14 days. Link to the concerned airport website would be provided in Air Suvidha platform which would be displayed to passengers while filling up the self-declaration form (SDF),” an office memorandum issued by the Jyotiraditya Scindia-headed ministry noted, according to news agency ANI.Starting Dec 20th, all international travelers from 'at-risk' countries, arriving at airports in Delhi, Mumbai, Kolkata, Chennai, Bengaluru, and Hyderabad will have to compulsorily prebook an RT-PCR test.#Omicron pic.twitter.com/cnVxAuxy5TThe document further stated that the mandatory RT-PCR pre-booking will come into effect from 11:59pm on December 19. “In the first phase, the system may be implemented in six metro cities, namely Delhi, Mumbai, Kolkata, Chennai, Bengaluru and Hyderabad,” it mentioned.Also Read | Instead of travel bans, India is keeping ‘watch’ on ‘at risk’ nations: MEA as Omicron reaches countryThe ministry also directed the Directorate General of Civil Aviation (DGCA) to issue an advisory to all airlines to check their passengers’ pre-booking of the Covid-19 test before they board the flight. “If a passenger is having difficulty in pre-booking, they may not be denied boarding. However, the airline would be responsible to identify and accompany such passengers to the registration counter at the airport for testing,” it said.India’s ‘at-risk’ list for Omicron currently comprises a dozen countries, including the United Kingdom. The other nations which are present on the list are South Africa, Botswana, Brazil, China, Ghana, Hong Kong, Israel, Mauritius, New Zealand, Tanzania and Zimbabwe.Also Read | Omicron: Singapore dropped from India's ‘at-risk’ nations list. Details hereThe new travel rules for Omicron came into effect from December 1. The emergence of the variant also led to a further delay in the resumption of regular international commercial flights, which have been under suspension since March last year. These were scheduled to resume from December 15 but the ban has now been extended till at least January 31 next year.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/omicron-from-december-20-pre-booking-rt-pcr-tests-mandatory-for-arrivals-from-in-risk-countries-101639484002746.html
14-12-2021||India||Madras high court quashes FIR against YouTuber arrested for tweet on chopper crash||The Madras high court on Tuesday quashed an FIR registered by the Madurai Police against a YouTuber, who was arrested on December 9 after he posted a ‘controversial’ tweet over the Indian Air Force (IAF) helicopter crash, which took place near Coonoor in the state's Nilgiris district the day before.Also Read | Tamil Nadu: YouTuber arrested for his tweet on helicopter crashJustice GR Swaminathan of the high court's Madurai bench quashed the FIR noting that the offences mentioned in it were not made in out in the tweet. The city police had booked the YouTuber, Maridhas, under various sections of the Indian Penal Code (IPC) including those related to ‘promoting enmity between different groups on grounds of religion, race, place of birth, residence.’Maridhas, from his twitter handle @MaridhasAnswers, had tweeted in Tamil that 'Tamil Nadu is becoming another Kashmir under the ruling Dravida Munnetra Kazhagam (DMK).' Though he subsequently deleted the tweet, a DMK functionary lodged a complaint against him, resulting in his arrest.The December 8 crash resulted in the demise of 13 out of 14 people on board the chopper, including General Bipin Rawat, the country's first and incumbent chief of defence staff (CDS) and his spouse Madhulika Rawat. The lone survivor, IAF's Group Captain Varun Singh, is currently hospitalised in a military hospital in Bengaluru, where is condition is reported to be ‘critical.’In the wake of General Rawat's death, arrests have been made across several states over ‘derogatory’ social media posts against him.The IAF has constituted a tri-service Court of Inquiry (CoI) to investigate the crash.(With PTI inputs)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/madras-high-court-quashes-fir-against-youtuber-arrested-for-tweet-on-chopper-crash-101639480888002.html
14-12-2021||India||‘Give us refugee status or deport us to Myanmar’: Rohingya lodged in Assam jail||Ten members of the Rohingya people from Myanmar who are lodged in a jail in Assam have petitioned the Gauhati high court seeking refugee status or to be sent back to their country. The 10 Rohingya, who belong to two related families, were arrested for entering India without valid documents and have been lodged in Tezpur jail in central Assam, which also lodges other foreigners, for several years. The petitioners, Saidur Rahman, his wife Tahara Begum and their three children, his brother Mahmad Ulla, his wife Rumana Begum and their three children, belong to Coundang village in Buthidaung of Myanmar’s Rakhine state. The petitioners had approached the high court in June 2017 seeking refugee status in India or deportation to Myanmar. The matter, which had come up for hearing six times, is being heard by the division bench of justices N Kotiswar Singh and Malasri Nandi. “It has been submitted that the present petitioners are admittedly citizens of Myanmar who have been convicted for entering this country without proper documentation, and had served out sentences imposed by the competent court, and have been languishing in jail for the last seven years,” the HC bench stated in its order earlier this month. “The plea of the petitioners is that either they be allowed to remain in India by granting refugee status or be deported to their country of origin, that is, Myanmar. However, the authorities are not taking any decision in this regard and the petitioners are languishing in jail,” the order said. Also Read: Facebook sued for $150 billion by Rohingya refugees over Myanmar violenceFollowing the court’s observation, Anita Verma, special counsel for foreigners’ tribunals in Assam, sought some time to take instructions on the course of action the state government may adopt for the petitioners. In another petition heard by the same bench this month, Azizul Haque, a Rohingya from Myanmar, and Mohammed Habib Ullah, whose nationality has yet to be ascertained, sought to be deported to Myanmar. They are both lodged in the Goalpara district jail.Both petitions have been listed for hearing on Thursday.According to the UN, there are over 16,000 registered Rohingya people - a Muslim minority in Buddhist-dominated Myanmar - currently in India who fled their country following multiple instances of violence. It is, however, estimated that the figure could be higher with many of them residing in India with any documentation.
14-12-2021||India||News updates from HT: Over 8.5 lakh Indians gave up citizenship in last 7 years and all the latest news||Here are today’s top news, analysis and opinion. Know all about the latest news and other news updates from Hindustan Times.Over 8.5 lakh Indians gave up citizenship in past 7 years till Sept 30: GovtMore than 8.5 lakh Indians renounced their citizenship in the past seven years till September 30, the Centre informed the Lok Sabha on Tuesday citing data available with the Union ministry of home affairs. Read moreKashi's development ensures automatic roadmap for India: PM ModiPrime Minister Narendra Modi on Tuesday said ensuring Kashi (Varanasi)’s development ensures an automatic roadmap for the entire country. Read moreVijay Hazare Trophy: Ruturaj Gaikwad smashes 4th century in 5 matches; joins Virat Kohli, Prithvi Shaw in elite listRuturaj Gaikwad is the single hottest name doing the rounds in Indian cricket at the moment. The 24-year-old, leading Maharashtra on Tuesday notched up a fourth century of the 2021/22 season of the Vijay Hazare Trophy. Read moreJohn Abraham deletes all Instagram posts, removes profile pic days ahead of 49th birthday. See hereActor John Abraham has deleted all his posts on Instagram, a few days ahead of his 49th birthday. His Instagram account has a total of 9.7 million followers. John follows 108 people on the social media platform. The actor has also removed his profile picture. Read moreBMW Motorrad India delivers 5,000 motorcycles this year, its all time highBMW Motorrad is celebrating 5,000 motorcycle deliveries to customers in India this year and will post a growth of over 100% as compared to the previous year. The two-wheeler company has achieved this feat by overcoming the current sentiment in the two-wheeler industry amid the coronavirus pandemic. Read moreSoha Ali Khan is serving us fresh fitness goals with one leg burpeesSoha Ali Khan's fitness videos on her Instagram profile always manages to serve us with all the motivation we need. They also make us look a little bad, since the actor takers up high intensity workouts that are mostly beyond our reach. Read more||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/news-updates-from-ht-over-8-5-lakh-indians-gave-up-citizenship-in-last-7-years-and-all-the-latest-news-101639480119886.html
14-12-2021||India||IndiGo baggage handler dozes off in plane’s cargo area, reaches Abu Dhabi||NEW DELHI: A baggage handler for budget airline IndiGo was trapped in the cargo hold of the Airbus A320 aircraft and ended up flying to Abu Dhabi on an early morning flight after he decided to take a nap behind a few pieces of luggage and woke up only as the plane took off from the Mumbai airport, people aware of the matter said.The incident took place on Airbus A320 aircraft that operated as 6E 1835 (Mumbai to Abu Dhabi) and took off around 2.59am on Sunday.“We are aware of the incident and the requisite authorities have been informed. The matter is under investigation,” an IndiGo spokesperson said.The baggage handler, also known as a loader, has been de-rostered by aviation regulator Directorate General of Civil Aviation (DGCA).“The cargo door was closed after the hold staff had marked the head count,” said Arun Kumar, director general, DGCA.The airline learnt of his presence in the aircraft only after the plane landed in Abu Dhabi about two hours later and and the cargo hold was opened.“A medical examination of this loader was conducted by Abu Dhabi authorities and examination revealed that he was physically stable. After getting the requisite clearances from local authorities at Abu Dhabi, he was sent back as a passenger to Mumbai on the return flight,” said Kumar.Mohan Ranganathan, aviation expert said the incident raises questions on not only the flight incharge of the airline, but also raises safety concerns. “If the airline would have taken head count of their employees before the aircraft’s doors closed, then they would have learnt about this absence,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/indigo-baggage-handler-dozes-off-in-plane-s-cargo-area-reaches-abu-dhabi-101639481594636.html
14-12-2021||India||Terror incidents in Kashmir declined since abrogation of Article 370: Centre||Since the scrapping of the special status of Jammu and Kashmir, terror-related incidents in the union territory have dropped from 255 in 2019 to 206 this year, the home ministry told the Lok Sabha on Tuesday.Responding to a question from Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) MP Rattan Lal Kataria, minister of state for home affairs Nityanand Rai said, “The security in Jammu and Kashmir has improved significantly since August 2019 and there has been a significant decline in terrorist incidents. Security grid has been further strengthened and infiltration of terrorists from across the border has also come down significantly.” Citing data, Rai also said that in 2018, well before the abrogation of Article 370, there were 417 terror incidents in Jammu and Kashmir. The number fell by almost 50% in 2021.On August 5, 2019, the Parliament voted to scrap Articles 370 and 35(A) in Jammu and Kashmir, which was followed by the Centre implementing several development schemes in the union territory.Also Read: Terrorists will be tracked, killed: Kashmir IGP after Srinagar attackRai highlighted some of the development schemes, saying, “The progress of projects being implemented in the UT of Jammu and Kashmir under the prime minister’s development package 2015 has been accelerated. A total of 53 projects pertaining to 15 ministries are being implemented at a cost of ₹58,477 crore in various sectors, such as roads, power, health, education, tourism, agriculture, skill development etc.”He said 21 of the 53 projects were either complete or are on the verge of being completed.The minister also pointed to a business revival package of ₹28,400 crore and the recent launch of international flights between Srinagar and Sharjah among various development schemes rolled out by the Centre.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/terror-incidents-in-kashmir-declined-since-abrogation-of-article-370-centre-101639480394622.html
14-12-2021||India||Government is crushing the voices of the people, claims Rahul Gandhi||Congress leader Rahul Gandhi on Tuesday accused the government of “crushing” the voices of the people of the country.“This (suspension of 12 Rajya Sabha MPs) is a symbol of the crushing of the voices of the people of India. They have been suspended now for two weeks. They are sitting outside. Their voices have been crushed. They have done nothing wrong,” Gandhi said during a protest march by Opposition leaders, who are demanding rollback of the suspension of the 12 Rajya Sabha lawmakers.Leaders from Opposition parties in both the Houses attended the protest march from Parliament to Vijay Chowk in New Delhi on Tuesday.Gandhi also criticised the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP)-led government for passing Bills in the Houses of Parliament without discussion or debate. “This is not the way to run a democracy… It is an unfortunate killing of the democracy that is taking place,” he said. Also Read: Rahul taking Congress on new path with ‘India country of Hindus’ remark: SenaThe Congress leader accused Prime Minister Narendra Modi and the Rajya Sabha chairman M Venkaiah Naidu of not backing the country’s farmers.“A minister killed farmers. The prime minister is aware of it,” Gandhi alleged. “The truth is that two or three capitalists are against farmers. These MPs were not suspended by the Rajya Sabha chairman or prime minister, but by the power that wants to steal the farmers’ income. The prime minister and the chairman are just implementers.”Dravida Munnetra Kazhagam (DMK) leader Tiruchi Siva claimed that the Union government is behaving in a manner that is “undemocratic” and in “violation of all rules of procedure” of the Upper House.“On the day farm Bills were passed, the government flouted all the procedures on how Bills should be passed. The Bills were bulldozed, the motions were not put to vote, and the Opposition had no other way than to raise their voice and go to the well,” Siva claimed.He added that the Opposition wants Parliament to function smoothly and their only demand is the revocation of the suspension order.Rajya Sabha proceedings have been largely disrupted since the start of the winter session with Opposition MPs demanding revocation of the 12 lawmakers’ suspension. The MPs were suspended for the rest of the winter session for “unruly behaviour” during the previous session in July-August.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/government-is-crushing-the-voices-of-the-people-claims-rahul-gandhi-101639478294543.html
14-12-2021||India||Over 8.5 lakh Indians gave up citizenship in past 7 years till Sept 30: Govt||More than 8.5 lakh Indians renounced their citizenship in the past seven years till September 30, the Centre informed the Lok Sabha on Tuesday citing data available with the Union ministry of home affairs.As many as 8,81,254 Indian nationals have given up their citizenship since 2017, the government stated.8,81,254 Indians renounced their citizenship in the last 7 years till Sept 30, 2021, as per info available with MEA: Govt in Lok SabhaUnion minister of state for home affairs Nityanand Rai had told the Parliament on December 1 that 6,08,162 Indians gave up their citizenship in the past seven years till September 20. Of this, 1,11,287 people renounced their Indian citizenship this year itself till September 20. He added that 10,645 foreign nationals, mostly from Pakistan (7,782) and Afghanistan (795), applied for Indian citizenship between 2016 and 2020. He also said that more than 100 lakh Indians are currently living overseas.This development comes at a time when the Union home ministry has announced that it is yet to take any decision on creating a pan-India National Register of Citizens (NRC). The Centre, however, said anyone who comes under the umbrella of the Citizenship Amendment Act (CAA) can apply for Indian citizenship after the rules of the law are notified.Also Read | Settle in Pakistan: Pralhad Joshi tells Farooq Abdullah after 'talk' nudgeThe law, which Rai said came into effect on January 10, 2020, led to enormous protests across the country soon after its initial notification in December 2019. One of the most prominent incidents among them was the Delhi riots, which resulted in bloodshed and injured over 200 people.Also Read | Delhi riots: Court frames charges against man who pointed gun at policemanThe CAA that was cleared to provide citizenship to Hindus, Sikh, Buddhists, Jains, Parsis and Christians from Afghanistan, Bangladesh and Pakistan, who crossed over to India till December 31, 2014, was termed unconstitutional and discriminatory by the opponents of the law. It was also called out for secluding Muslims and associating citizenship with faith in a secular nation like India.The Bharatiya Janata Party-led central government has asked for another six-month extension till January 2022 to prepare the rules under CAA.(With inputs from ANI)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/over-8-5-lakh-indians-gave-up-citizenship-in-past-7-years-till-sept-30-govt-101639472368605.html
14-12-2021||India||Paytm introduces international travel certificate download to vaccine finder platform||Paytm announced on Tuesday it has added a new feature to the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) vaccine finder platform which it launched in May this year. The new service, it said, will allow users to download their international travel certificates from the vaccine finder app.Also Read | Paytm launches Covid-19 vaccine slot booking feature: All you need to know“We always strive to bring convenience to our users, and the latest feature to download international travel certificates is just another step in the direction. Additionally, users can also add their certificate to their DigiLocker on Paytm,” a Livemint report quoted a spokesperson of the One 97 Communications-owned company as saying.The spokesperson further noted that this new facility will also help users in updating their passport details to get certificates which comply with the World Health Organization's (WHO) Documentation of Covid-19 certificates (DDCC): Vaccination Status (VS) mechanism.Travellers, however, should check for country-specific Covid-19 guidelines before finalising their travel plans, the spokesperson also said.International travel certificates have become a necessity due to the coronavirus pandemic, with world governments mandating these documents to allow people entry to respective countries. In recent days, governments have once again introduced travel curbs due to a fresh outbreak of the virus, as well as due to the emergence of the Omicron variant, cases of which were first reported from southern Africa last month. The WHO has classified it as Variant of Concern (VoC).At least 96 nations recognise vaccine certificates from India. However, the resumption of regular international passenger flights from the country has been delayed further due to the Omicron threat.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/paytm-introduces-international-travel-certificate-download-to-service-vaccine-finder-platform-101639475231865.html
14-12-2021||India||Explained: What do universities think about a common entrance test?||New Delhi: With the Union government indicating that a common entrance test will be introduced for all undergraduate and postgraduate courses in central universities from next year, a plethora of voices have emerged both in support and criticism.
14-12-2021||India||Suspension of 12 MPs: Rahul Gandhi slams move as ‘crushing voice of people’, says Oppn not allowed to raise issues||Amid the continuing opposition protests about the suspension of 12 parliamentarians from the Rajya Sabha, Congress leader Rahul Gandhi on Tuesday called the suspension as “crushing the voice of the people” and said that the opposition was not being allowed to raise any issues in Parliament.Earlier in the day, opposition MPs from both Houses marched from Parliament to Vijay Chowk, asking for the suspension to be repealed. Gandhi made the remarks at Vijay Chowk after the march.“Suspension of 12 MPs is a symbol of the crushing of the voice of people of India. Their voices have been crushed. They have done nothing wrong. We are not allowed to discuss important issues in Parliament,” news agency ANI quoted him as saying.Also read | ‘RS chair has authority to revoke suspension’: Congress' KhargeFurther, he criticised the government saying that Prime Minister Narendra Modi was not present in the House during the proceedings. “Bill after Bill is being passed in Parliament in the din. This is not the way to run Parliament. The Prime Minister does not come to the House. We are not allowed to raise any issue of national importance. It is the unfortunate killing of democracy,” he said.He said that the Prime Minister and the Rajya Sabha chairman were “implementors” of a “power” that wanted to steal the farmers’ income. “A minister killed farmers. The Prime Minister is aware of it. Truth is that 2-3 capitalists are against farmers... These MPs were not suspended by the Rajya Sabha chairman or the Prime Minister but by the power that wants to steal farmers' income. The Prime Minister and the chairman are just implementers,” he said.Click here for live updates on Parliament Winter SessionMeanwhile, the Rajya Sabha resumed, after disruptions and a walkout by the opposition parties, at 2pm. Union parliamentary affairs minister Pralhad Joshi called upon the opposition MPs to return to the House and said the government was ready for a discussion on any matter.Regarding the suspension, Joshi said that the government was in talks with the suspended MPs individually. “The government is in talks with them (suspended MPs) at an individual level for withdrawal of their suspension. I have made it clear that they should at least express regret,” news agency ANI quoted the minister as saying.On November 29, the first day of Winter Session, 12 opposition MPs were suspended from the Upper House for their “unruly” behaviour during the previous Monsoon Session in August, despite continued criticism from the opposition.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/suspension-of-12-mps-rahul-gandhi-slams-move-as-crushing-voice-of-people-says-oppn-not-allowed-to-raise-issues-101639476598279.html
14-12-2021||India||Ecostani | The farmer agitation may be over, but the politics has just begun||On December 11, protesting farmers started returning home from the Delhi borders --- Singhu, Gazipur and Tikri --- after a successful agitation against the three farm laws for 382 days. It was a year of grit and determination. These farmers, mostly from Punjab, Haryana and western Uttar Pradesh, showed to the country and the world that peaceful movements can win, provided the objectives are clear and there are no political overtones. But ironically, the end of the farm agitation does not mean the lack of political implications in Punjab, Uttar Pradesh and Uttarakhand, where assembly polls are scheduled for early next year. If anything, across these states, and across incumbent governments, there will be political repercussions, irrespective of the party in power.
14-12-2021||India||1kg of specialised Assam tea sells for ₹99,999 at Guwahati auction||A tea auction in Guwahati on Tuesday sparked a buzz when 1kg of orthodox golden tip tea from an Assam-based tea estate was auctioned for ₹99,999. The auction took place at the Guwahati Tea Auction Centre (GTAC).Guwahati-based wholesaler Saurabh Tea Traders won the bid for the specialised tea branded as Manohari Gold and produced by Manohari Tea Estate in Assam’s Dibrugarh district.“This specialised tea is high in demand and production is very low,” said ML Maheshwari, CEO of Saurabh Tea Traders. “We were trying for long to procure this tea. The owner of the garden refused to sell it to us privately and decided to auction it.”In 2018, 1kg of the same brand of tea was auctioned for ₹39,000, and it was bought by Saurabh Tea Traders at that time as well. A year later, the same company again bought a kilogram of that tea for an auction price of ₹50,000. In 2020, 1kg of the tea fetched ₹75,000, with Vishnu Tea Company winning the bid. Also Read: Centre takes steps to curb blending of imported tea with Indian teas“There’s a very high demand for Manohari Gold tea since we started production of this special variant in 2018. It’s become popular worldwide,” said, Rajan Lohia, owner of Manohari Tea Estate. “This year, we produced a little over 2kg of Manohari Gold. We put out only 1kg for auction as we had to cater to demands from many of our customers.”Unlike most teas, Manohari Gold is made from tea buds and not leaves, and goes through a tedious process. The buds are plucked early morning in the second flush season in May and June. 
14-12-2021||India||'In talks with suspended MPs, but…': Pralhad Joshi as Parliament logjam continues||Union minister of parliamentary affairs Pralhad Joshi on Tuesday urged Opposition leaders to express regret and come back to Parliament to hold discussions over various issues with the government. Amid a continued deadlock over the suspension of 12 Rajya Sabha MPs with Opposition members again staging a walkout during the day, Joshi said the government is in talks with them at an individual level for withdrawal of the suspension, but they would have to express regret.“I call upon Congress leaders and others to express remorse and regret and come to the House. The government is ready for discussion on any matter. The government is in talks with them (suspended MPs) at an individual level for withdrawal of their suspension. I have made it clear that they should at least express regret,” the Union minister was quoted as saying by news agency ANI.I call upon Congress leaders and others to express remorse & regret and come in the House. Govt is ready for discussion on any matter: Parliamentary Affairs Minister Pralhad Joshi on suspension of 12 Rajya Sabha MPs pic.twitter.com/QRQx0W26gjMeanwhile, the Opposition parties staged walkout from the Upper House of Parliament as their demand to revoke the suspension was rejected by Deputy Chairman Harivansh.When asked about the ongoing din, Joshi said, “Today, 50 MPs, including from the Congress and other parties had given notices (for zero hour). The chairman had admitted 26 of them. The TMC, BSP, BJD, YSRCP and other parties took part in it.”Watch here for live updates:Earlier in the day, the Rajya Sabha witnessed another round of uproar by opposition parties for nearly an hour over their demand for the revocation before Chairman M Venkaiah Naidu adjourned proceedings till 2pm.Amid sloganeering by members of opposition parties, including the Congress, with several of them trooping into the Well of the House, Naidu continued with the Zero Hour during which many MPs raised important issues.Also read | Kharge seeks removal of external security forces from ParliamentThe Chair did not permit members, who were in the Well of the House, to raise Zero Hour mentions. While most of the opposition parties were protesting, TMC member Sukhendu Sekhar Ray made his Zero Hour mention.The 12 opposition MPs were suspended from the Rajya Sabha on November 29 for the entire Winter session of Parliament for their "unruly" conduct in the previous session in August, even as the Opposition termed the suspension as "undemocratic and in violation of all the Rules of Procedure" of the Upper House.Amid the din, Naidu said he had discussed the matter with Leader of the House Piyush Goyal and Leader of Opposition Mallikarjun Kharge.(With agency inputs)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/in-talks-with-suspended-mps-but-pralhad-joshi-as-parl-logjam-continues-101639473727591.html
14-12-2021||India||COTPA amendment will hit women in beedi industry: Study||The Bharatiya Mazdoor Sangh (BMS) and the Swadeshi Jagran Manch (SJM), two offshoots of the Rashtriya Swayamsevak Sangh (RSS), have lent support to a study that claims that the proposed amendments to the Cigarettes and Other Tobacco Products Act (COTPA) will adversely affect the livelihood of millions of women engaged in beedi production work.As per a study conducted by Vibha Vasuki, a human rights lawyer and Dr. Shiva Prasad Rambhatla, a professor of social anthropology, the new insertion in the act that makes it mandatory for persons to obtain licences, permissions and registration for selling and distributing any tobacco products, if implemented, will be an “extremely harsh” measure for small vendors who do not have the competency of financial means to obtain such licences. The authors of the study to be released in the capital on Tuesday by union minister for environment, forests and climate change and labour and employment, Bhupendra Yadav, most of the beedis are sold from microshops set up under trees and on pavements which will not be recognised by the municipalities or given licences. “Therefore, the entire sale of beedis will come to a grinding and abrupt halt. If the sale of beedis comes to a halt, then the entire beedi industry will come to a halt,” the study says.Also Read: How can female investors avoid being influenced by male investment patternsThe report further says that until skill building and alternative employment is provided on a large scale for their livelihood, beedi rolling “is the only viable occupation for millions of women across India”.Ashwani Mahajan of the SJM who has written the foreword of the report said, “We have been fighting for the rights of the workers since mid 1990s. When the excise duty on small cigarettes was reduced, machine made cigarette became cheaper and the employment of Beedi workers was affected. [When] we pleaded for the reversal, initially the government did not agree, [but] after we started the beedi rozgar rakshak aandolan, the then finance minister, Yashwant Sinha agreed to a gradual increase in the excise duty. Since then, we have been saying though the use of tobacco cannot be supported, there has to be an alternative means of livelihood provided to the 4.5 crore people who are dependant on the beedi industry, right from collecting of Tendu leaves to selling it.”The study also claims that beedis have 85% market share of all smoking products in India and the manufacturing process is highly labour-intensive. It says 96% of the total Beedi workers are home-based and only 4% work in factories, and a majority of the home-based workers (84%) are women.The study also claims there has been no allocation of funds for Beedi workers since 2017-18.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/cotpa-amendment-will-hit-women-in-beedi-industry-study-101639474094218.html
14-12-2021||India||Should settle there: Pralhad Joshi after Farooq Abdullah says India should talk with Pakistan||A day after National Conference president Farooq Abdullah nudged the government to hold talks with Pakistan over a terror attack in Srinagar, Union minister of parliamentary affairs Pralhad Joshi on Tuesday hit out at the NC leader asking him to "settle" in the neighbouring country.“He has said many times that India should talk to Pakistan. If he likes Pakistan so much, then he should settle there,” Pralhad Joshi said, according to news agency ANI.On Monday, Farooq Abdullah asked the government to hold talks with Pakistan and find a way to bring peace in Kashmir, following the terror attack which claimed the lives of three cops in Srinagar. The NC leader said both India and Pakistan should "shed their egos" and come forward for dialogue, according to news agency PTI.Also read | Two Lashkar militants killed in encounter in Srinagar’s RangrethIn a veiled dig at Prime Minister Narendra Modi, the NC leader also remarked that India needs a “bold" prime minister who can hold everybody together -- be it Hindu, Muslim, Sikh, or anybody, reported PTI.Also read | Terrorists will be tracked, killed: Kashmir IGP after Srinagar attackTwo police personnel were killed and 12 others injured after terrorists attacked a police vehicle near a police camp at Zewan on the outskirts of Srinagar on Monday.The injured personnel were rushed to an Army Hospital where they are undergoing treatment, according to Kashmir Zone Police.Kashmir zone inspector general of police, Vijay Kumar, said on Tuesday that the attack was planned and carried out by foreign terrorists who will be tracked and killed.“It was a planned attack by two foreign terrorists and one local terrorist. Three police personnel have lost their lives in this attack. One terrorist who managed to flee will be caught and the group will be neutralised soon,” Kumar told reporters.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/should-settle-there-pralhad-joshi-after-farooq-abdullah-says-india-should-talk-with-pakistan-101639472372684.html
14-12-2021||India||Serum Institute to launch Covovax jab for kids in 6 months, says Adar Poonawalla||Serum Institute of India (SII) CEO Adar Poonawalla said on Tuesday that the Pune-based vaccine manufacturer plans to launch a coronavirus disease (Covid-19) vaccine for children, in the next six months.The jab, Poonawalla noted, is the US biotechnology company Novavax's Covid-19 vaccine, which his firm will produce and manufacture locally as Covovax.“We haven't seen a lot of severe disease in children. Fortunately, panic is not there for kids. However, we will be launching a vaccine for them in six months, hopefully down to the age of three,” news agency PTI quoted Poonawalla as saying, as he addressed an industry conference in the national capital.“Our Covovax vaccine, which is under trial and has shown excellent data all the way down to the age group of three years, will be launched in six months,” he further said.Also Read | Serum Institute of India gets nod for trials of Covovax in childrenThe Serum Institute CEO also spoke in favour of vaccinating kids. “Yes, I think you should take and get your children inoculated. There's no harm, these vaccines have been proven to be safe and efficacious. Just wait for the government's announcement, and then you can go ahead,” he remarked.Under the nationwide inoculation drive, which began on January 16 this year, only those aged 18 and above are eligible to get jabbed. Among the vaccines given Emergency Use Authorisation (EUA) by the Drugs Controller General of India (DCGI), only one, Ahmedabad-based Zydus Cadila's ZyCoV-D, has been cleared for an age group below 18, being approved for everyone aged 12 and above.Also Read | Zydus jab cleared for kids to cost govt ₹265However, it is yet to be included in the vaccination drive.A second jab, Hyderabad-based Bharat Biotech International Limited's Covaxin, too, has been recommended by DCGI's expert panel for the 2-18 age group. The Union government, however, informed Parliament ‘additional information has been sought from developers before a final nod is given.Also Read | Additional data sought, expert panel’s recommendations being examined: Centre on Covaxin for kidsCovaxin, though, is among two most widely used vaccines in the nationwide exercise.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/serum-institute-to-launch-covovax-jab-for-kids-in-6-months-says-adar-poonawalla-101639471532512.html
14-12-2021||India||NTAGI reviewing scientific evidence on justification of Covid-19 booster doses: Centre to Delhi HC||Expert groups responsible for advising the Centre on immunisation policy are deliberating and considering scientific evidence related to the dosing schedule of Covid-19 vaccines as well as the need and justification of booster doses, the government informed the Delhi high court on Tuesday.It said that the National Technical Immunization (NTAGI) and National Expert Group on Vaccine Administration for Covid-19 (NEGVAC) are both analysing the data regarding breakthrough coronavirus infections in India and considering the effectiveness of current vaccines in the pipeline. A decision regarding additional shots or booster doses of the Covid-19 vaccine is likely to be taken soon.The NTAGI and NEGVAC are the two expert bodies working in tandem to guide the National Covid-19 vaccination program. While the NTAGI examines technical aspects like usage of different varieties of Covid-19 vaccines, the interval between vaccine doses, contraindications, and the like, the NEGVAC, in turn, provides overall guidance and recommendations on all aspects of Covid-19 vaccination to the ministry of health and family welfare.The government also informed the Delhi high court that presently there are no guidelines for administering booster doses to those who are fully vaccinated, adding that the current priority is to cover the entire eligible population with both doses of the Covid-19 vaccine.“It is humbly submitted that the current knowledge about the duration of immunity offered by Covid-19 vaccines in India is limited and will clearly be known over a period of time only,” the Centre said in an affidavit.It also told the bench of Justices Vipin Sanghi and Jasmeet Singh that since the biological characteristics of Covid-19 are not completely known, the appropriateness and necessity of a booster dose of Covid-19 vaccine are yet to be decided.Earlier, the Delhi high court had asked the Centre to file a reply on the aspects relating to the booster disease of the Covid-19 vaccine.The court's remark had come in view of the growing advocacy of booster doses in the Western countries.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/ntagi-reviewing-scientific-evidence-on-justification-of-covid-19-booster-doses-centre-to-delhi-hc-101639468103389.html
14-12-2021||India||Karnataka MLC election results 2021: Counting of votes underway for 25 seats||The counting of votes for Karnataka legislative council elections is underway for the 25 MLC seats, the results for which are likely to be out by the evening, news agency PTI reported on Tuesday.The voting to these seats was held on December 10 and around 99 per cent voter turnout was recorded during the polls.The elections to the seats were necessitated after the term of 25 incumbent MLCs—14 from the Congress, seven from the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) and four Janata Dal(Secular)—is ending on January 5.As many as 90 candidates are in the fray including, 20 each from BJP and Congress, six from JD(S), 33 Independents, according to poll officials. There is only one woman candidate in the fray and she is contesting from the Chickmagalur constituency.Experts have said the results will have a bearing on the power equation in the 75-member Upper House of the state legislature, where the ruling BJP wants to gain a majority.The BJP has said it is confident about winning maximum seats and needs to win at least 13 seats to secure a majority. Speaking to reporters in Varanasi, chief minister B Bommai expressed confidence in "good results" in favour of the BJP.The Congress too is determined to win the maximum number of seats to keep the BJP away from gaining control of the Upper House, while the JD(S) has expressed confidence about winning all the six seats it is contesting in.The elections were held for two seats each from the local authorities constituencies of Bijapur, Belgaum, Dharwad, Dakshina Kannada and Mysuru; and one each from Bidar, Gulbarga, Uttara Kannada, Raichur, Bellary, Chitradurga, Shivamogga, Chikmagalur, Hassan, Tumakuru, Mandya, Bangalore, Bangalore Rural, Kolar and Kodagu.(With agency inputs)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/karnataka-mlc-election-results-2021-counting-of-votes-underway-for-25-seats-101639466650485.html
14-12-2021||India||Rahul taking Congress on new path with ‘India country of Hindus’ remark: Sena||Two days after Congress leader Rahul Gandhi said that India is a country of “Hindus and not Hindutvawadis”, Shiv Sena has said that he was trying to take his party in a new direction. An editorial in Sena mouthpiece Saamana said that Gandhi’s wordplay on “Hindu” and “Hindutvawadi” showed that the party, which was stuck in “useless secularism”, has made an appeal to the majority Hindus after a long time.“This is a country of Hindus and not Hindutvavadis. Since 2014, it’s the Hindutvavadis who are in power, and not Hindus. We need to oust them and bring the rule of Hindus,” Gandhi said at a rally in Jaipur on December 12 to protest persistent inflation. It was not the first instance of Gandhi trying to suggest that Hindutva was a radical form of Hinduism. He had earlier attempted to draw a similar distinction while responding to the row over the controversial comparison between Hindutva and terrorist groups such as ISIS and Boko Haram, done in Congress leader Salman Khurshid’s latest book. “Rahul Gandhi has tried to give a new direction to the Congress, which was stuck in the useless secularism,” said Saamana, It further added that the presence of Sonia Gandhi, Priyanka Gandhi Vadra and Rahul Gandhi in Jaipur has shown the way for the 2024 general elections.Shiv Sena MP Sanjay Raut, who is also the executive editor of Saamana, said that Gandhi’s speech was a move in the right direction and that no one can move ahead by overlooking the Hindus in the country. “Even though the country belongs to everybody (to all religions), no one can overlook the majority Hindus and move ahead politically. I have had discussions over this [topic] many times with Rahul Gandhi. His speech in Jaipur meant that the soul of Congress was Hindu. The souls of several Congress leaders right from Mahatma Gandhi to Madan Mohan Malaviya and to Lokmanya Tilak was Hindu. I think Congress will move ahead in this direction now,” Raut told media persons in New Delhi.Also Read: Oppn leaders to hold march today to protest against suspension of 12 MPsThe Sena mouthpiece further slammed the ruling Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) saying the “current rulers of Delhi do not match the Hindu culture” which is filled with “fake Hindutva as Uddhav Thackeray had said.” The editorial said, “When people say that ‘inflation has risen, living has become impossible, do something’, then a reply such as ‘Ram Mandir has been built and now the work on Mathura temple will begin’ does not fit in Hindu culture. The current government in Delhi does not match Hindu culture. As Uddhav Thackeray says it is filled it fake Hindutva.” As a policy, the Maharashtra unit of the BJP does not respond to remarks made in Saamana.The editorial argued that India was partitioned on the basis of religion in 1947 and since Muslims got Pakistan, “then what was wrong to think that the remaining Hindustan was for the Hindus?” It further said, “Since the beginning, Hindus got step-brotherly treatment in their own country in the name of secularism.”
14-12-2021||NA||PM in Varanasi LIVE: Modi asks to take resolution to educate daughters||On Day 2, Prime Minister Narendra Modi participated in yet another conclave of chief ministers and deputy chief ministers of BJP-ruled states. At around 3:30pm, PM Modi will attend the 98th-anniversary celebrations of Sadguru Sadafaldeo Vihangam Yog Sansthan at Swarved Mahamandir.The Prime Minister, who is on a two-day visit to Varanasi, had inaugurated Phase-1 of the newly-constructed Kashi Vishwanath Dham, built at a cost of around ₹339 crores, on Monday.Modi also went on a surprise nighttime inspection of key development works on Monday with Uttar Pradesh chief minister Yogi Adityanath, who reiterated the government's endeavour to create the best possible infrastructure for the sacred city. Follow all the updates here:PM Modi urges people to take resolution to educate their daughtersDuring his address at the Swarved Temple in Varanasi, PM Modi appealed to the people to take resolution to educate their daughters and also invest in their skill development.Contribution of saints in India's freedom struggle ‘not described in history’ the way it should have been, says PM at VaranasiPM Modi says that Safaldev ji Maharaj, the honoured freedom fighter, offered “a new direction to the freedom movement” and many saints “hugely contributed” in India's freedom struggle, but their contribution was not described in history the way “it should have been done.”‘Intact, keeps on evolving’: PM talks about Kashi's ‘energy’Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Tuesday said that Kashi's (Varanasi) energy is “intact” and it “keeps on evolving.” PM Modi arrives at Swarved MahamandirUttar Pradesh | Prime Minister Narendra Modi arrives at the Swarved Mahamandir to attend the 98th-anniversary celebrations of Sadguru Sadafaldeo Vihangam Yog Sansthan in VaranasiHe is accompanied by CM Yogi Adityanath pic.twitter.com/dFODUso18gPrime Minister Narendra Modi has arrived at the Swarved Mahamandir to attend the 98th-anniversary celebrations of Sadguru Sadafaldeo Vihangam Yog Sansthan in Varanasi, Uttar Pradesh. Chief minister Yogi Adityanath is accompanying him.Modi to attend celebrations at Sadguru Sadafaldeo Vihangam Yog SansthanToday at around 3:30 pm, PM Modi will attend the 98th-anniversary celebrations of Sadguru Sadafaldeo Vihangam Yog Sansthan at Swarved Mahamandir.2022 UP elections discussed in BJP conclaveSeveral key issues related to organisation and preparations for the upcoming assembly elections 2022 were discussed in the meeting, according to officials familiar with the developments.PM Modi chairs meeting with CMs of BJP-ruled states in VaranasiPrime Minister Narendra Modi on Tuesday started another packed day as he chaired a meeting with chief ministers of states ruled by the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) in Varanasi of Uttar Pradesh during the two-day visit to his parliamentary constituency. Read More||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/prime-minister-narendra-modi-in-varanasi-live-updates-day-2-kashi-vishwanath-101639465602574.html
14-12-2021||India||India’s Omicron tally mounts to 49 after Delhi, Rajasthan report 8 cases||Rajasthan and Delhi have reported four cases each of the Omicron variant of the coronavirus, which have now taken the country’s tally of such infections to 49, according to the ministers of the western state and the Union territory on Tuesday.Rajasthan health minister Parsadi Lal Meena said four more Omicron cases have been reported. “The health condition of these patients is stable. All the previous Omicron cases in the state have tested Covid-19 negative now,” Meena was quoted as saying by news agency ANI.Delhi also detected four new cases of the Omicron variant, taking the total number of such infections to 6, health minister Satyendar Jain said.“Of the 6 cases, 1 patient has been discharged from the hospital. Currently, 35 Covid positive patients and 3 suspected cases are admitted to the LNJP Hospital,” Jain was quoted as saying by news agency ANI.Maharashtra (20), Rajasthan (13), Karnataka (3), Gujarat (4), Kerala (1) and Andhra Pradesh (1) and Union Territories of Delhi (6) and Chandigarh (1) have reported Omicron cases so far.India reported its first cases of the Omicron variant in Karnataka's Bengaluru where two people, including a South African national of Indian origin and a doctor, tested positive for it.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/indias-omicron-tally-mounts-to-49-after-delhi-rajasthan-report-8-cases-101639466012141.html
14-12-2021||India||News updates from HT: Kashmir IGP says Srinagar attack terrorists will be tracked, killed and all the latest news||Here are today’s top news, analysis and opinion. Know all about the latest news and other news updates from Hindustan Times.Kashmir police chief Vijay Kumar said on Tuesday the deadly attack on the bus carrying security personnel in Srinagar on Monday evening was pre-planned and those behind the killings will be caught soon. Read morePakistan on Monday became the first men's team to win 18 T20 international matches in a calendar year as they beat West Indies by 63 runs in the first game of the three-match series. Read moreOn Monday actors Kareena Kapoor and Amrita Arora tested positive for Covid-19. Now, Kareena’s father, Randhir Kapoor has said that the actor is “doing well now and is currently under home quarantine.” Read moreBMW India on Tuesday informed that the first lot of its fully electric all-wheel drive iX model has been completely sold out on the first day of the launch. Read moreR Ashwin recently took to Twitter to re-share a viral video that showcases a man resuscitating a monkey. In his post, he also praised the man for his gestures. There is a possibility that after seeing the clip you will want to applaud the man too for saving the animal’s life. Read moreMiss India 2020 Manasa Varanasi, who will be representing the country at the Miss World 2021 pageant, congratulated Harnaaz Sandhu on her historic win. Read moreThe Central Board of Secondary Education (CBSE) expressed regret and announced a committee to thoroughly review and strengthen the question paper setting process after outrage over a passage in class 10 English exam that allegedly promoted ‘gender stereotyping’. Watch more||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/news-updates-from-ht-kashmir-igp-says-srinagar-attack-terrorists-will-be-tracked-killed-and-all-the-latest-news-101639465437935.html
14-12-2021||India||Agitation by resident doctors across India set to intensify||The agitation by resident doctors’ associations across the country is set to intensity this week with the threat of withdrawal from all services in government and civic hospitals looming if there is no resolution to their demand for immediately starting admissions to first-year of postgraduate medical courses. A stay on fresh PG admissions until January 6, ordered by the Supreme Court, stands in the way of the agitating doctors who plan to withdraw from all services if a quick solution is not found.“Multiple delays and postponement of admissions has resulted in no fresh intake of PG residents in 2021, despite the country facing one of the worst phases of the pandemic at the same time. Our agitation began with the nationwide withdrawal from outpatient department (OPD) services on December 9, but with no concrete measures taken by appropriate authorities, we will once again be forced to opt for withdrawal of all services in medical institutes,” read a letter addressed to the union health ministry, signed by the Federation of Resident Doctors Association (FORDA) India.While several other resident doctor associations across the country started their strike on December 1, Central Maharashtra Association of Resident Doctors (MARD) started the withdrawal from OPD work on December 6 and also withdrew it on the same day following a meeting with state minister Aditya Thackeray.The agitating doctors have been complaining about the additional pressure during testing times on just two batches of resident doctors instead of three. “At a time when the country is witnessing the rise of a new Covid variant, the least that needs to be done is strengthening of the healthcare system and we need all hands on deck,” said one of the protesting doctors.NEET-PG 2021 exam which should have taken place in January was postponed to February first, then to April this year. It was then delayed indefinitely due to increasing cases of Covid-19 registered across the country.Also Read: Oppn leaders to hold march today to protest against suspension of 12 MPsThe entrance test was finally conducted in the month of September this year, but admissions post the exam has been stayed by the Supreme Court which is currently hearing a series of petitions filed by students questioning the validity of implementation of EWS (Economically Weaker Section) and OBC (Other Backward Castes) quota in all India quota (AIQ) seats.Thackeray assured the residents doctors in Maharashtra hospitals that the state will start pre-admission registration process for PG admissions soon. He also assured that he will request the Central government to push for the quashing of the stay on admissions. Last week, the union health ministry also approached the apex court requesting for this matter to be heard on an urgent basis.“The onus of any unfortunate incident due to withdrawal from services will be on the concerned authorities. We sincerely hope such a situation does not arise,” said a representative of FORDA.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/agitation-by-resident-doctors-across-india-set-to-intensify-101639465214486.html
14-12-2021||India||Terrorists will be tracked, killed: Kashmir IGP after Srinagar attack||Kashmir police chief Vijay Kumar said on Tuesday the deadly attack on the bus carrying security personnel in Srinagar on Monday evening was pre-planned and those behind the killings will be caught soon.Two policemen were killed and 12 others were injured on Monday evening as Kashmir Tigers, an offshoot of the Pakistan-based Jaish-e-Mohammed (JeM), carried out the attack on a bus carrying Jammu and Kashmir Armed Police personnel on the outskirts of Srinagar. The death toll rose to three after constable Rameez Ahmad of the 9th Battalion, Jammu and Kashmir Armed Police, succumbed to his injuries at the Indian Army's 92 Base hospital, officials said on Tuesday. “It was a planned attack by two foreign terrorists and one local terrorist. Three police personnel have lost their lives in this attack. One terrorist who managed to flee will be caught and the group will be neutralised soon,” Vijay Kumar, inspector general of police, Kashmir Range, was quoted as saying by news agency ANI.Also read | PM Modi seeks details of Srinagar terror attack; Jaish claims responsibilityKumar along and other police personnel also paid their tributes to constable Rameez Ahmad, who lost his life after Monday’s terrorist attack.According to officials, the bus, carrying 25 police personnel, came under fire from terrorists in Zewan in the Pantha Chowk area of Srinagar. They said at least 14 personnel of the ninth battalion of the Jammu and Kashmir Armed Police sustained injuries in the attack.The injured were taken to various hospitals where an assistant sub-inspector Ghulam Hassan and constable Shafeeq Ali succumbed to their injuries.Also read | Two Lashkar militants killed in encounter in Srinagar’s RangrethMeanwhile, security forces killed a suspected terrorist during a gun battle in Jammu's Poonch district.“The operation was launched on December 13 on receiving specific Intelligence inputs of presence of armed terrorists in the area. During the encounter in early hours on December 14, the terrorist attempted to escape while opening fire at the security personnel, however was neutralised in ensuing fire,” a defence spokesperson said.“One AK-47 Rifle, four magazines and pouches have been recovered from the slain terrorist,” the spokesperson added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/terrorists-will-be-tracked-killed-kashmir-igp-after-srinagar-attack-101639463454400.html
14-12-2021||India||SC allows Centre to widen Char Dham roads in view of security concerns at Indo-China border||The Supreme Court on Tuesday allowed the Centre to construct all-weather roads with 10-metre tarred surfaces, as opposed to the 5.5-metre-wide road ordered earlier, as a part of the Char Dham project. Many of these are strategic feeder roads leading to the Indo-China border, according to officials familiar with the matter.The court was hearing the Centre's plea seeking modification of the September 8, 2020 order, which had asked the ministry of road transport and highways to follow the 2018 circular stipulating carriageway width of 5.5 metre on the ambitious Char Dham highway project, which goes up to the border with China.The defence ministry had urged the Supreme Court to modify the earlier order and allow the national highways from Rishikesh to Mana, from Rishikesh to Gangotri, and from Tanakpur to Pithoragarh to be developed to two-lane configuration.The Supreme Court noted that the recent past has thrown up serious challenges to security along the borders. “This court can't second-guess infrastructural needs of armed forces,” held the top court.The Supreme Court has, however, taken note of environmental concerns raised regarding the widening of the Char Dham highway project. An oversight committee, led by former Supreme Court judge AK Sikri, has been constituted to ensure that all remedial measures are taken in the interest of the environment and that the relevant recommendation of the high-powered committee is implemented while going ahead with the project.While modifying the September 8, 2020 order allowing only 5.5-metre-wide width for the Char Dham roads, the Supreme Court noted on Tuesday that the ministry of road transport and highways circulars do not forbid the double-laning of roads in hilly and mountainous terrains if they are of strategic and border importance. The judiciary cannot interfere either in defence requirements, the court added.The oversight committee shall receive all support from the defence ministry, the road transport ministry, the Uttarakhand government and all concerned district magistrates.The strategic 900km-long Char Dham project, worth ₹12,000 crore, aims to provide all-weather connectivity to four sacred towns in Uttarakhand – Yamunotri, Gangotri, Kedarnath, and Badrinath.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/sc-allows-centre-to-widen-char-dham-roads-in-view-of-security-concerns-at-indo-china-border-101639460039801.html
14-12-2021||India||PM Modi chairs meeting with CMs of BJP-ruled states in Varanasi||Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Tuesday started another packed day as he chaired a meeting with chief ministers of states ruled by the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) in Varanasi of Uttar Pradesh during the two-day visit to his parliamentary constituency.According to news agency ANI, the chief ministers will give a presentation on good governance before PM Modi during the meeting. BJP national president JP Nadda, secretary organisation and some office-bearers of the party's UP and Kashi region units were also present in the meeting.Later, the chief ministers are scheduled to visit Kashi Vishwanath Temple along with deputies and other senior ministers. The chief ministers of BJP-ruled states are also scheduled to visit Ayodhya on December 15 for the darshan of Ram Lalla, ANI reported.On Monday, the first day of the visit, PM Modi inaugurated Phase 1 of the newly-constructed Kashi Vishwanath Corridor, worth a cost of around ₹339 crore.On Tuesday, the Prime Minister is scheduled to attend the 98th-anniversary celebrations of Sadguru Sadafaldeo Vihangam Yog Sansthan at Swarved Mahamandir.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/pm-modi-chairs-meeting-with-cms-of-bjp-ruled-states-in-varanasi-101639462690877.html
14-12-2021||India||Focus back on human-elephant conflict as 2 tuskers die from ‘poisoning’ in Assam||Carcasses of two elephants, one pregnant and the other a male calf, were discovered on Sunday in Borbhetagaon in the Karbi Anglong district of Assam, bordering the Kaziranga National Park and Tiger Reserve (KNPTR) . Post-mortem revealed that the pachyderms died due to “suspected poisoning”, forest officials said on Monday, adding that cases have been lodged under relevant sections of the Wildlife Protection Act, 1972. The latest incident took the figure of elephant deaths in Assam this year to 70. As per official figures, while 24 of these deaths were due to the natural causes, three were due to electrocution, another three because of poisoning, four in train accidents, one due to injury, 18 due to lightning and 17 because of “unknown” causes. The elephant deaths show just one side of the human-elephant conflict which Assam witnesses every year, peaking in the winter when the tuskers leave forests in search of food. This year, 60 persons have been killed in the state by elephants till date, as per the forest department. “It is true that human-elephants conflict is on the rise in Assam and it causes lot of deaths on both sides every year. We have been urging public not to get into confrontation with elephants, and assuring them of adequate compensation for damages. But people don’t listen,” said Assam forest and environment minister Parimal Suklabaidya. The minister highlighted last week’s incident when a two-year-old was killed and her mother was injured when forest staff fired shots to disperse a herd of wild elephants in Kamrup district. On Sunday, two forest guards involved in the incident were arrested for “accidental firing”. “Besides spreading awareness, we have increased compensation for human deaths due to elephant attacks from ₹1 lakh to ₹4 lakh. Damages to crop and houses are also compensated within weeks. Measures have been taken to reduce elephant deaths due to train hits. But more needs to be done,” said Suklabaidya. As per the forest department, in the past three years, several measures like constitution of anti-depredation squads, erection of solar-powered electric fences to prevent pachyderms from moving towards human habitations and intensive patrolling to monitor elephants’ movement have been undertaken to reduce human-elephant conflicts. Likewise, setting up of cordination committees comprising forest officials, railway authorities and local people in areas near animal corridors and monitoring of vulnerable sections of railways tracks is also done to stop the deaths of elephants due to train hits. But wildlife experts feel these measures are neither adequate nor implemented properly for a permanent solution to the annual human, elephant deaths in the state, which sometimes overtake the number of casualties due to floods, which plague Assam every year. “Elephants are national heritage, but while a lot of attention is given towards rhino conservation, similar focus seems lacking towards saving lives of elephants and also of humans. It’s an annual tragedy,” said Bibhab Talukdar, the chief executive officer (CEO) of Aaranyak, a Guwahati-based wildlife non governmental organisation (NGO). “Immediate and doable things like mass awareness, immediate and reasonable compensation for damages, proper coordination between forest and railways officials and adequate facilities to village defence personnel to monitor movement of elephants should be undertaken,” he added. Also Read: Rose-ringed parakeets crammed in nylon bag rescued in Lucknow, one arrestedRuling Bharatiya Janata Party legislator, Padma Hazarika, who is also an expert elephant trapper and trainer, said instead of short-term measures, the government should take long term initiatives to bring down the number of human-elephant deaths in Assam. “Elephants come out of forests during winter months in search of food. Trees which elephants feed on should be planted in protected forests. Instead of trying to disperse elephant herds by using firecrackers or firing shots in air, mahouts and domestic elephants should be used to address the issue,” he said. “Notified elephant corridors should be cleared of encroachments and addition of more areas to protected forests like Kaziranga National Park and Tiger Reserve (KNPTR) should also be done. I have raised this issue in assembly as well. We need to do more to address it,” said Hazarika. According to union forest and environment ministry figures, between January 1, 2011 and December 31, 2020, a total of 129 elephants died due to electrocution, 62 due to train hits and 32 due to poisoning in Assam.
14-12-2021||India||Explained: Who sets CBSE question papers? How does the board ensure accuracy?||New Delhi: The ongoing Central Board of Secondary Education (CBSE) first-term board examinations for classes 10 and 12 have come under the scanner twice over the last two weeks for including “controversial” questions in the papers. The matter even reached the Parliament on Monday when Congress president Sonia Gandhi demanded an apology from the board for including a “blatantly misogynist” section in the question paper for the class 10 English exam that took place on Saturday.
14-12-2021||India||Oppn leaders to hold march today to protest against suspension of 12 MPs||Opposition lawmakers from both the Rajya Sabha and the Lok Sabha will hold a march in Delhi on Tuesday to protest against the suspension of the 12 Upper House MPs, reported news agency ANI.They will march from the Gandhi statue to Vijay Chowk at 12:45pm.People familiar with the development said that the opposition will hold a march against four issues, including rising inflation, farmers income, forcing legislation without discussion and the suspension of MPs.The development followed a meeting of the floor leaders of opposition parties, who met at the office of Leader of Opposition in the Rajya Sabha Mallikarjun Kharge, to discuss the strategy to press for the demand of the revocation of the suspension of 12 MPs.Also read | Parliament LIVE: Oppn leaders hold meet to discuss suspension of 12 RS MPs"The Rajya Sabha chairman has full powers to suspend any rule, issue direction, or revoke it but Government is not letting him do it. I request the chairman to use his powers to bring back these 12 suspended MPs to the House," Kharge told ANI before the meeting.The suspended members comprise six from the Congress, two each from the Trinamool Congress and the Shiv Sena, and one each from the CPI and the CPM: Phulo Devi Netam, Chhaya Verma, Ripun Bora, Rajamani Patel, Syed Nasir Hussain and Akhilesh Prasad Singh of Congress; Dola Sen, Shanta Chhetri of Trinamool Congress; Priyanka Chaturvedi, Anil Desai of Shiv Sena; Elamaram Kareem of CPM; and, Binoy Viswam of CPI.Also read | Kharge seeks removal of external security forces from ParliamentThe MPs were suspended for alleged unruly conduct towards the end of the Monsoon Session in August when marshals were called after opposition members stormed the Well of the House during the passage of the General Insurance Business (Nationalisation) Amendment Bill, 2021.The Upper House has witnessed continuous adjournment since the first day of the ongoing Winter Session over the suspension of the 12 members.The suspended MPs have been protesting at the Gandhi statue in the premises of the Parliament since the first day of their suspension.(With agency inputs)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/oppn-leaders-to-hold-march-today-to-protest-against-suspension-of-12-mps-101639461970334.html
14-12-2021||India||Using multipronged approach to help vulnerable students: Govt||The education ministry told the Parliament on Monday it was using a multipronged approach to help students in educationally backward districts and in rural areas get continued access to education.“A comprehensive initiative called PM e-VIDYA has been initiated as part of Aatmanirbhar Bharat Abhiyan on 17th May, 2020, which unifies all efforts related to digital/online/on-air education to enable multimode access to education,”minister of state of education, Annpurna Devi, told Parliament. She listed initiatives such as DIKSHA (one nation, one digital platform) which provides quality e-content for school education in 35 out of 36 states and Union Territories; Shiksha Vani (extensive use of radio, community radio and CBSE podcast); and special e-content for the visually and hearing impaired, developed on Digitally Accessible Information System and in sign language on the National Institute of Open Schooling (NIOS) website and YouTube.Also Read | Process on for dues payment of mid-day meal workers in Himachal: Govind Singh ThakurApart from this, the ministry highlighted its “proactive initiative” to provide psycho-social support, through MANODARPAN programme to students, teachers and families in respect to mental and emotional well being during the pandemic and beyond.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/using-multipronged-approach-to-help-vulnerable-students-govt-101639461013360.html
14-12-2021||India||Over ₹37,134cr GST compensation due to states for 2020-21||The Central government owes over ₹37,134 crore to state governments as Goods and Services Tax (GST) compensation for the year 2020-21, the finance ministry told the Lok Sabha on Monday in response to a query by Janata Dal (United) MPs Dinesh Chandra Yadav, Kaushalendra Kumar and Rajiv Rajan on whether GST dues were not being paid to the states as per their entitlement.The finance ministry said ₹37,134 crore was owed to the states as GST compensation for2020-21 including ₹14,664 crore for the April-September 2021 quarter.“The economic impact of the pandemic has led to higher compensation requirements due to lower GST collection and at the same time [there is] lower collection of GST compensation cess,” the ministry said, explaining the reason for the dues.The ministry added that a part of the GST compensation of ₹1,30,464 crore for April ’20 to March ’21 could be released since the GST Compensation Fund was running short due to the economic impact of the pandemic.The Centre owes the maximum dues of ₹6, 723 crore to Maharashtra, followed by ₹3,528cr to Karnataka, ₹3,145cr to Gujarat, ₹3,125cr to Uttar Pradesh and ₹2,894cr to Tamil Nadu.The dues have come down significantly since the monsoon session of Parliament, when Maharashtra was to due to be paid ₹15,138 crore and Karnataka and Uttar Pradesh were owed ₹7,202cr and ₹7,109cr, respectively.Also Read: MEA warning letter over Khalistan is fake, say officialsFor April-September 2021, the government said it doesn’t owe any GST compensation to as many as 21 states including Bihar, Chhattisgarh, Kerala and Rajasthan.The ministry said that the Centre is committed to releasing the full GST compensation to the states and union territories for the transition period by extending the levy on the compensation cess beyond five years to meet the shortfall as well as by servicing the loan through a special window scheme.The Centre told the Parliament in July that it had borrowed ₹1.1 lakh crore under the special window scheme.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/over-rs-37-134-cr-gst-compensation-due-to-states-for-202021-101639459873822.html
14-12-2021||India||MEA warning letter over Khalistan is fake, say officials||A letter being shared on social media platforms about a warning by the ministry of external affairs (MEA) against anti-India activities and propaganda of Khalistani extremists around the world is fake, people familiar with the matter said on Tuesday.Officials mentioned above said the letter, reportedly issued on November 8 and was being shared on several social media platforms, was never issued. The alleged letter talked about measures to counter the threat posed by Sikh extremists.Security agencies suspect the involvement of the Pakistani deep state in generating the letter as Pakistan has been fishing in troubled waters during the farmers' agitation through pro-Khalistan elements.Last month, reports said an alert was issued after an intelligence input said banned terrorist organisation Sikh for Justice (SFJ) can gherao the Parliament House and hoist the Khalistan flag on it.Intelligence agencies asked authorities, including the Delhi Police, to remain on alert and make elaborate security arrangements around Parliament.This came after the Sikh for Justice’s Gurpatwant Singh Pannu released a video on YouTube, appealing to farmers to gherao Parliament and hoist the Khalistani flag during the Winter Session of Parliament.Pannu has said in the video that the one who hoists the flag of Khalistan on the Parliament will be given a reward of $125,000.In October, US-based Sikhs for Justice organised a so-called referendum to decide whether Khalistan should be carved out of Punjab. The SFJ called all Sikhs above the age of 18 to vote in the referendum held in Westminster.London-based diplomats said while none of the gurdwaras, except the three known Khalistan movement supporters, allowed the organisers a platform. Reports said those who did come to vote were a select group of Khalistanis and those with no particular leanings and were lured to the polling booths on some pretext or the other.On November 15, the UK police raided the office of Sikhs for Justice located in Hounslow. The Metropolitan Police took away all electronic devices and documents pertaining to the so-called referendum held by the SFJ.Reports said SFJ members were using electronic devices to create fake Identity cards and documents pertaining to bogus voters in order to push up the voting numbers during the referendum.
14-12-2021||India||'No access': Tamil Nadu puts beaches out of bounds on Dec 31, Jan 1||Amid concerns over the Omicron variant of coronavirus, the Tamil Nadu government has banned public gatherings at all beaches in the state on December 31 and January 1, 2022, as a precautionary measure amid the ongoing pandemic."There will be no access to people to all the beaches on December 31, 2021, and January 1, 2022, as part of the measures aimed at curbing the spread of Covid," an official release quoting chief minister MK Stalin said, according to news agency PTI.The Marina Beach in Chennai is among the most popular beaches that are swarmed by New Year revellers every year.The latest order by the government came after Stalin held a review meeting regarding the pandemic situation in the state on Monday, especially in the wake of the emergence of the latest Omicron variant in neighbouring states, reported PTI.Also read | Omicron in India: 2 new cases in Maharashtra, 1 in Gujarat; country's tally climbs to 41The state government also extended the existing restrictions on social, cultural and political meetings till December 31.On the other hand, Stalin also announced certain relaxations for schools, permitting classes for students from Classes 6 to 12 and higher education institutions to function normally from January 3, 2022, and not on a rotational basis.The same rule will apply to colleges and technical training centres, according to the release. The government has also allowed swimming pools to function.Among others, "Test-Track-Treat-Vaccination-Covid-19 Appropriate Behaviour," should be strictly followed.The chief minister also advised people to avoid crowding in the ensuing festival season and follow Covid protocol, including the use of masks and social distancing, and get vaccinated.Also read | Gurugram increases hospital beds to prepare for possible Omicron waveThe neighbouring states that have reported the cases of Omicron include Kerala, Karnataka and Andhra Pradesh. While Kerala and Andhra Pradesh have reported one case each of Omicron, Karnataka has found three cases of the variant so far.The national tally of Omicron cases stands at 41.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/no-access-tamil-nadu-puts-beaches-out-of-bounds-on-dec-31-jan-1-101639456225829.html
14-12-2021||India||With 5,784 new cases, India's daily Covid-19 tally sees 21.3% fall||India on Tuesday saw a major fall in the number of daily infections, as it logged 5,784 cases in the last 24 hours, according to the Union ministry of health and family welfare. This was 21.3 per cent lower than Monday, when the country reported 7,350 cases, and the lowest in 571 days.The health ministry’s data shows there were 252 fresh related fatalities. The overall Covid-19 tally now stands at 34,703,644 including 475,888 deaths.The active caseload is the lowest in the last 563 days as it stood at 88,993, the health ministry data also showed. It currently accounts for 0.26 per cent of the total cases.At 98.37 per cent, the recovery rate remained the same as on Monday, the ministry added in its daily health bulletin. Total recoveries in the nation stand at 34,138,763, out of which 7,995 people recuperated in the last 24 hours.The daily positivity rate at 0.58 per cent has been less than 2 per cent for the last 71 days and the weekly positivity rate at 0.68 per cent has been below 1 per cent for the last 30 days, the health ministry also said.Meanwhile, the country has administered as many as 1.33 billion vaccine doses so far under nationwide vaccination drive.The fall in cases come as experts are being cautious about the daily trajectory in view of the Omicron variant of the Covid-19. Described as the "variant of concern," the Omicron is the latest mutation of the Covid-19 virus. It is said to be more contagious than its previous variants -- Delta, Delta Plus.As of Monday, the country has a total of 41 cases of Omicron variant from states including Maharashtra (20), Rajasthan (9), Karnataka (3), Gujarat (4), Kerala (1) and Andhra Pradesh (1) and Union Territories of Delhi (2) and Chandigarh (1).||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/with-5-784-new-cases-india-s-daily-covid-19-tally-sees-21-3-fall-101639455049184.html
14-12-2021||India||Bills to extend CBI, ED chiefs’ tenures to be introduced in RS||The government is expected to introduce two bills in the Rajya Sabha on Tuesday to extend the tenures of directors of the Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI) and the Enforcement Directorate (ED) by up to five years, according to agency reports. These bills seek to replace two ordinances issued last month before the start of the winter session of Parliament.Central Vigilance Commission (Amendment) Bill, 2021 and Delhi Special Police Establishment (Amendment) Bill 2021 are likely to be introduced in the Upper House for consideration and passage. The two Bills were passed by the Lok Sabha on December 9 after the rejection of various amendments moved by the Opposition. The Central Vigilance Commission (Amendment) Bill, 2021, introduced in the Lok Sabha on December 3, seeks to amend the Central Vigilance Commission Act, 2003, while the Delhi Special Police Establishment (Amendment) Bill, 2021 seeks amendment in the Delhi Special Police Establishment Act, 1946. According to PRS Legislative Research, under the 2003 Act, the director of enforcement has a tenure of minimum of two years. The Central Vigilance Commission amendment Bill says the tenure may be extended by up to one year at a time till the completion of five years from the initial appointment. Such extensions may be granted in the public interest, on the recommendation of the committee, the Bill says. The Delhi Special Police Establishment (Amendment) Bill, 2021 also inserts the provision for similar extension in tenure of the director of CBI . Several political parties and activists had opposed the amendments, alleging it was an attempt to subvert the independence of the two key probe agencies and undermine these institutions. The ruling Bharatiya Janata Party however defended the amendments as necessary to fight large scale corruption.Also Read: PM Modi visits Kashi temple, Banaras railway station shortly after midnightEarlier when the Bills were passed in the Lok Sabha, Union minister Jitendra Singh said the independence of CBI was the Union government’s top priority. On Tuesday, Union finance minister Nirmala Sitharaman will be introducing the Appropriation (No.5) Bill,2021 in the Lok Sabha. The Bill aims to authorise payment and appropriation of certain sums from and out of the Consolidated Fund of India for the financial year 2021-2022.Reports from various standing committees including Welfare of Scheduled Castes And Scheduled Tribes, Agriculture, Animal Husbandry And Food Processing, N Agriculture, Animal Husbandry And Food Processing will be tabled in both the Houses of the Parliament.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/bill-to-increase-cbi-and-ed-chiefs-tenures-to-be-introduced-in-rs-101639455012992.html
14-12-2021||India||News updates from HT: NCB's Wankhede to appear before caste certificate scrutiny committee today and all the latest news||Here are today’s top news, analysis and opinion. Know all about the latest news and other news updates from Hindustan Times.Narcotics Control Bureau (NCB) Mumbai zonal director Sameer Wankhede is on Tuesday set to appear before the Mumbai district caste certificate scrutiny committee, which is investigating the allegations regarding the officer's caste certificate. Also readDelhi is likely to see a shallow foggy sky on Tuesday as per the India Meteorological Department (IMD) forecast. The minimum temperature is likely to be at 6 degrees Celsius and the maximum is predicted to reach 23 degrees Celsius. Read moreVirat Kohli is arguably India's greatest modern batter but the 33-year-old hasn't been in the best of forms with the bat over the last two years, with his last ton coming in 2019. Read moreActor Kangana Ranaut attended the sangeet of actor Ankita Lokhande and Vicky Jain. Taking to Instagram Stories on Monday night, Kangana gave glimpses from the event. Read moreChandigarh girl Harnaaz Sandhu, who became the Miss Universe 2021, has shared a new post on her official Instagram page. Her first post after winning the title is all about gratitude and remembering the important people in her life who made the historic win possible. Read moreWar of words erupted after Samajwadi Party chief Akhilesh Yadav's 'end nears' jibe at PM Narendra Modi and BJP leaders. Responding to a question over BJP's plans to hold month-long events in Kashi, Akhilesh had said that people do visit varanasi when their end nears. Watch more||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/news-updates-from-hindustan-times-ncb-s-wankhede-to-appear-before-caste-certificate-scrutiny-committee-today-and-all-the-latest-news-101639451358797.html
14-12-2021||India||Insurers settle claims of Gen Rawat, Brigadier Lidder others at record speed||Two state-run general insurers have settled insurance claims of chief of defence staff (CDS) General Bipin Rawat and Brigadier LS Lidder, who died in the helicopter crash along with 11 others earlier this month, at record speed.Gen Bipin Rawat, his wife Madhulika, Brigadier Lidder and 10 other armed forces personnel were killed in the Mi-17V5 helicopter crash near Coonoor town of Tamil Nadu on December 8, in one of the biggest air accidents in India in decades involving senior military officers.All defence personnel get the benefit of group personal accident insurance cover with their salary account.Also read | In last message, CDS Rawat invoked spirit of 1971 war heroesAccording to news agency PTI, United India Insurance (UII) has so far settled the personal accident insurance claim of Gen Rawat and seven other defence personnel in a record of 30 minutes.New India Assurance (NIA) paid the claim of Brig Lidder within an hour of the receipt of claim intimation from the bank he had an account with, PTI reported citing people familiar with the matter.Also read | General Rawat: A fitting farewell"On December 10, we received primary information from the bank that these account holders have been martyred in the accident. As soon as the information came, we settled the claim amount with the minimum required paper that had come to us from the bank," UII chairperson and managing director Satyajit Tripathy told PTI.Tripathy said the insurance amount given to Indian Army officials is ₹30 lakh and that for Indian Air Force officials is ₹40 lakh.Also read | Mobile phone of man, who made video of General Rawat's chopper, sent for testsTripathy said the eight personnel, including Gen Rawat, were covered under the SBI group personal accident policy for account holders.  The official also said UII is also processing the personal accident insurance claims for two more defence personnel who had a group personal accident policy with Punjab National Bank.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/insurers-settle-claims-of-gen-rawat-brigadier-lidder-others-at-record-speed-101639450615069.html
14-12-2021||India||PM Modi visits Kashi temple, Banaras railway station shortly after midnight||Prime Minister Narendra Modi along with Uttar Pradesh chief minister Yogi Adityanath visited the Kashi Vishwanath temple shortly after midnight, walking from the Godaulia intersection to the temple complex that he inaugurated on Monday.The prime minister also visited the Banaras railway station and then inspected some developmental work in Kashi during the early hours on Tuesday. Tweeting about the visit, PM Modi said, “Inspecting key development works in Kashi. It is our endeavour to create best possible infrastructure for this sacred city.”“Next stop… Banaras station. We are working to enhance rail connectivity as well as ensure clean, modern and passenger-friendly railway stations,” he posted.Earlier, the PM held a meeting with chief ministers of the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP)-ruled states on a cruise for about two hours. Around midnight, Modi tweeted, “Just concluded an extensive meeting with @BJP4India chief ministers.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/pm-modi-visits-kashi-temple-banaras-railway-station-shortly-after-midnight-101639448473088.html
14-12-2021||NA||Parliament Highlights: Both houses adjourned till 11am on Wednesday||Opposition floor leaders from the Lok Sabha and the Rajya Sabha held a meeting on Tuesday in the Chamber of Leader of Opposition (LoP) in the Rajya Sabha Mallikarjun Kharge to chalk out the strategy for the ongoing Winter Session of Parliament.On Monday, the Lok Sabha passed the Narcotic Drugs and Psychotropic Substances (Amendment) Bill, 2021, to rectify a drafting error. The NDPS (Amendment) Bill, 2021, was passed by a voice vote and some amendments moved by opposition members were rejected by the House.Meanwhile, the 12 opposition lawmakers continued their protest against their suspension near the Gandhi Statue in Parliament premises.The Winter Session of Parliament began on November 29 and will continue till December 23.Follow all the updates here:Lok Sabha adjourned till 11am tomorrowThe Lok Sabha has been adjourned till 11am on Wednesday. Opposition leaders meet at Sonia Gandhi's residence to discuss protest strategyOpposition leaders including Nationalist Congress Party's Sharad Pawar, Dravida Munnetra Kazhagam's TR Baalu, Communist Party of India's (Marxist) Sitaram Yechury held a met with Congress leader Sonia Gandhi at her residence to chalk out the strategy for tomorrow's protests against the suspension of 12 MPs .Rajya Sabha adjourns till 11am on WednesdayThe Rajya Sabha has been adjourned till 11am on Wednesday.Rajya Sabha passes Central Vigilance Commission (Amendment) Bill, 2021Rajya Sabha passed the Central Vigilance Commission (Amendment) Bill, 2021. The bill permits extension of the tenure by upto one year at a time till the completion of five years from the initial date of appointment.Union minister Jitendra Singh refers to Sardar Vallabhai Patel's quote on corruptionUnion minister Jitendra Singh invoked Sardar Vallabhai Patel's quote during his reign as home minister. “Fight against corruption is a collective responsibility of all the political parties,” Singh quoted Patel.Security situation in Jammu and Kashmir has improved significantly, Govt informs ParliamentThe security situation in Jammu and Kashmir has improved significantly since August 2019 and there has been a significant decline in terrorist incidents, Union minister of state for home affairs Nityanand Rai says in a written reply in Parliament.“206 terrorist incidents took place in this year till 5th December,” he added.Rajya Sabha passes Delhi Special Police Establishment (amendment) Bill, 2021The Rajya Sabha has passed the Delhi Special Police Establishment (amendment) Bill, 2021. The Bill seeks amendment in the Delhi Special Police Establishment Act, 1946.Lok Sabha informed of boundary disputes between various states“There are boundary disputes between Andhra Pradesh-Odisha, Haryana-Himachal Pradesh, Ladakh-Himachal Pradesh, Maharashtra-Karnataka, Assam-Arunachal Pradesh, Assam-Nagaland, Assam-Meghalaya, Assam-Mizoram,” the government informed the Lok Sabha.All-round development of Gorkhas top priority of govt: Nityanand RaiAll-round development of Gorkhas including those living in West Bengal is one of the top priorities of government. In a meeting with Gorkhas in October, it was said that their aspirations would be met within Constitutional framework and in consultation with West Bengal: Nityanand Rai in Lok Sabha Oppn walks out of Rajya Sabha Opposition lawmakers have walked out of the Rajya Sabha to mark their protest against the suspension of 12 MPs.Rajya Sabha resumes proceedingsThe Rajya Sabha has resumed proceedings.Nityanand Rai raises issue of boundary dispute between some states in Lok SabhaAs per available information, there're boundary disputes arising out of demarcation of boundaries and claims and counter-claims over territories between some states. Some matters related to division of assets are pending between AP-Telangana and Bihar-Jharkhand: Nityanand Rai in Lok SabhaOpposition hold march in Delhi against suspension of 12 RS MPs Opposition lawmakers on Tuesday held a march from Parliament to Vijay Chowk seeking the revocation of the suspension of 12 Rajya Sabha MPs.Rajya Sabha adjourned till 2pm The Rajya Sabha has been adjourned till 2pm following sloganeering by opposition lawmakers who are demanding the revocation of the suspension of 12 MPs. "Let's maintain decency and decorum in the House. Unruly and unparliamentary behavior is not going to work at all," Chairman M Venkaiah Naidu tells the House.Oppn leaders to hold march today to protest against suspension of 12 MPsOpposition lawmakers from both the Rajya Sabha and the Lok Sabha will hold a march in Delhi on Tuesday to protest against the suspension of the 12 Upper House MPs, reported news agency ANI. Read moreLS discusses PLI Scheme for Auto SectorThe Lok Sabha is discussing the PLI Scheme for Auto Sector.Oppn meet underway at the office of LoP in RS, Mallikarjun Kharge#WATCH | Delhi: Floor leaders of Opposition parties in both the Houses of Parliament hold a meeting at the office of LoP in Rajya Sabha, Mallikarjun Kharge to discuss strategy for further agitation to press for the demand of revoking suspension of 12 MPs pic.twitter.com/9rbYyz8DBkFloor leaders of Opposition parties in both the Houses of Parliament are holding a meeting at the office of LoP in the Rajya Sabha Mallikarjun Kharge to discuss strategy for further agitation to press for the demand of revoking suspension of the 12 MPs.CPI(M) leader gives Suspension of Business Notice in RS to discuss inflationCommunist Party of India (Marxist) MP Dr V Sivadasan has given a Suspension of Business Notice under rule 267 in the Rajya Sabha to discuss the issue of rising inflation in the country.Frequent terror incidents in J&K show govt's policy on Kashmir has failed: Adhir Ranjan ChowdhuryThe frequent terror incidents in Jammu and Kashmir show that the government's policy on Kashmir has completely failed: Leader of Congress in the Lok Sabha, Adhir Ranjan ChowdhuryKharge requests RS chairman to ‘use his powers to bring back suspended MPs to the House’The Rajya Sabha chairman has full powers to suspend any rule, issue direction, or revoke it but government is not letting him do it. I request the to use his powers to bring back these 12 (suspended) MPs to the House: Leader of Opposition (LoP) in the Rajya Sabha, Mallikarjun KhargeMallikarjun Kharge demands removal of external security forces from ParliamentLeader of Opposition (LoP) in the Rajya Sabha Mallikarjun Kharge has written to the Chairman of the House requesting him to withdraw external security forces that are posted in the lobbies in reference to the harassment of opposition lawmakers during the Monsoon Session.Manickam Tagore gives adjournment motion notice in LSCongress MP Manickam Tagore gives adjournment motion notice in the Lok Sabha "to discuss the intrusion of Chinese military into the Indian territory and direct the government to take immediate action to prevent intrusion"Manish Tewari gives adjournment motion notice in LS over privatisation in banking sectorCongress MP Manish Tewari gives adjournment motion notice in the Lok Sabha over privatisation in the banking sector.Jitendra Singh to move Central Vigilance Commission (Amendment) Bill, 2021, in RS todayUnion minister Jitendra Singh to move The Delhi Special Police Establishment (Amendment) Bill, 2021, and The Central Vigilance Commission (Amendment) Bill, 2021, for consideration and passage in the Rajya Sabha today.Oppn floor leaders to meet at 10am today to discuss strategy for Winter SessionA meeting of Opposition floor leaders from the Lok Sabha and the Rajya Sabha will be held to discuss the strategy for the ongoing Winter Session of Parliament, at 10am on Tuesday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/parliament-winter-session-live-updates-december-14-2021-101639446156074.html
14-12-2021||India||Omicron in India: 2 new cases in Maharashtra, 1 in Gujarat; country's tally climbs to 41||Maharashtra has said two more fully vaccinated people were found infected with Omicron and a man tested positive for the latest variant of the coronavirus in Gujarat, taking the tally in the country of such cases to 41 on Monday.This comes a day after Kerala, Andhra Pradesh and Chandigarh reported their first Omicron cases.Omicron cases have now been detected in Maharashtra (20), Rajasthan (9), Karnataka (3), Gujarat (4), Kerala (1) and Andhra Pradesh (1) and Union Territories of Delhi (2) and Chandigarh (1).India reported its first cases of the Omicron variant in Bengaluru where two people, including a South African national of Indian origin and a doctor, tested positive for it.Maharashtra Omicron cases“Two new cases have been found to be infected with Omicron, according to a report released today by the National Institute of Virology, one from Latur and one from Pune,” the state health department said.The department said both the Omicron patients, including a woman, are asymptomatic and were fully vaccinated, the health department added.Also read | Govt may allow private labs to conduct genome sequencingIn Pune, it is a 39-year old woman and in Latur, it is a 33-year-old male. The state health department said both patients have a travel history to Dubai and three of their close contacts have been traced. All three of them tested negative for Covid-19.Gujarat Omicron caseGujarat reported its fourth Omicron case in Surat where a 42-year-old man, who returned from South Africa tested, positive.Also read | Two weeks into Omicron outbreak: What do we know so farHe underwent a test to detect Covid-19 in Delhi when he came back and it come out negative. However, after reaching Gujarat, he started showing symptoms after which he was tested again, officials said.Restrictions over OmicronDelhi chief minister Arvind Kejriwal on Monday said his government will impose restrictions, if required, around Christmas and New Year to curb the spread of Omicron. However, he said there is no need for any such measures right away.Kejriwal said the Delhi government is fully prepared to deal with the Omicron variant of the coronavirus and he is in constant touch with experts over the issue. Also read | 4 held for aiding Omicron patient leave India using fake -ve reportThe Tamil Nadu government announced public gatherings at all beaches in the state will not be allowed on December 31 and January 1.Kerala chief minister Pinarayi Vijayan said Covid-19 clusters should be identified and genetic sequencing tests ramped up in these areas.Vijayan said all the 36 people, who came in close contact with the Omicron patient from Ernakulam, are in isolation, a press release said. The patient arrived in Kochi with his wife on December 6 via Abu Dhabi on an Etihad flight.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/2-new-omicron-cases-in-maharashtra-1-in-gujarat-country-s-tally-climbs-to-41-101639447554004.html
14-12-2021||India||What is Gram Ujala scheme? All you need to know||The Andhra Pradesh government will from Tuesday distribute 10 lakh LED bulbs to households in rural areas under the Gram Ujala scheme to mark National Energy Conservation Day.The bulbs will be distributed at an affordable rate of ₹10 per unit and the expense will be borne by a state-owned Convergence Energy Services Limited (CESL), a subsidiary of Energy Efficiency Services Limited (EESL).It is also being done as part of the Azadi Ka Amrit Mahotsav celebrations.Under the scheme, the CESL will distribute 7-Watt, and 12-Watt energy-efficient LED bulbs that would come with a guarantee period of three years against submission of working incandescent bulbs.What is Gram Ujala scheme?Gram Ujala was launched by the Union minister of power and new and renewable energy RK Singh in March this year, in an attempt to raise awareness against climate change and to save electricity. "The move will save 2025 million kilowatt of energy per year," Singh said during the launch of the scheme.Under the initiative, LED bulbs will be distributed at a highly subsidised rate at ₹10 across 2,579 villages in five states of Bihar, Uttar Pradesh, Telangana, Andhra Pradesh, and Karnataka.Residents can buy a maximum of 5 LED bulbs by paying for old 100 watts bulbs. The government will also install meters at these houses.According to a report by Live Hindustan, HT's sister website, this will save 2025 million units (kWh) of electricity annually, while there will also be a reduction in carbon emissions by 16.5 lakh tons per annum. This will provide better lighting in homes at a cheaper rate.The scheme has already achieved a distribution mark of more than 33 lakh LED bulbs in Bihar and Uttar Pradesh. Starting Tuesday, it will be active in the other three states as well, the power ministry said in a statement.The Ujala scheme is being implemented by EESL, a joint venture of leading PSUs under the administration of the ministry of power.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/what-is-gram-ujala-scheme-all-you-need-to-know-101639445684397.html
14-12-2021||NA||Breaking News: BJP chief Nadda, party CMs and deputy CMs in Ayodhya tomorrow||Welcome to hindustantimes.com live updates platform where you can find breaking news from India and across the world. Find fast updates about the latest news as it breaks.Follow all the updates here:Top BJP leaders, including JP Nadda, in Ayodhya tomorrowBJP national president JP Nadda, along with CMs and deputy CMs of party-ruled states, will go to Ayodhya around 11am on Wednesday.Omicron cases reported from 77 countries, says WHO“77 countries have now reported cases of Omicron. It is spreading at a rate we have not seen with any previous variant,” says World Health Organization (WHO) director-general Tedros Adhanom Ghebreyesus.Uttarakhand CM speaks to state health minister who met with accident“Spoke to my colleague and cabinet minister Dr Dhan Singh Rawat. He sustained minor injuries but there is nothing to worry,” tweets Pushkar Singh Dhami.Nirav Modi case judge says will accept govt assurances Judge says will accept government assurances for Nirav Modi, as extradition appeal begins at UK high court.45 new Covid-19 cases in DelhiDelhi reports 45 new Covid-19 cases, 31 recoveries and zero deaths. Total tally rises to 1,441,793 including 1,416,286 recoveries, 25,100 deaths and 407 active cases.Delhi-Kathmandu bus service to resume from tomorrowDelhi-Kathmandu bus service, suspended due to Covid-19, to resume tomorrow from Dr Ambedkar Stadium Terminal, Delhi.Rajasthan govt announces ex-gratia for Sq Ldr Kuldeep Singh's kinRajasthan government announces ex-gratia of ₹1 crore for the family of Squadron Leader Kuldeep Singh who lost his life in the Tamil Nadu chopper crash on December 8.8 more Omicron cases in MaharashtraEight new Omicron variant cases detected in Maharashtra, of which seven are from Mumbai. One is from Vasai-Virar. None of the infected persons have any international travel history. State's tally rises to 28: Maharashtra health departmentUttarakhand health minister injured in accidentDhan Singh Rawat receives minor injuries after car meets with an accident while going from Thalisain to Dehradun.Tamil Nadu, Telangana CMs meet in ChennaiTamil Nadu chief minister MK Stalin and Telangana counterpart K Chandrashekar Rao meet at former's residence in Chennai.Group Captain Varun Singh ‘critical’ but ‘stable’: IAFGroup Captain Varun Singh, the lone survivor of the December 8 chopper crash, continues to be critical but stable. He is on life support system in Bengaluru Command Hospital: Indian Air Force (IAF)Positive result confirmed for anti-Covid pill: PfizerPfizer says study confirms positive results for anti-Covid pill.Pre-booking RT-PCR tests compulsory from December 20 for 6 airports, says CentreStarting December 20, all international travelers from 'at-risk' countries, arriving at airports in Delhi, Mumbai, Kolkata, Chennai, Bengaluru, and Hyderabad will have to compulsorily pre-book an RT-PCR test: Ministry of civil aviation.FIR against Sanjay Raut: Shiv Sena MPs meet Delhi Police chiefShiv Sena MPs meet Delhi Police commissioner Rakesh Asthana in connection with the withdrawal of the FIR against party leader and MP Sanjay Raut.2nd Omicron case in ChinaChina confirms its second case of Omicron, a 67-year-old man who tested positive after more than two weeks of quarantine.Iraq hangs three over ‘terrorism’ chargesThree hanged in Iraq over ‘terrorism’ charges, reports AFP citing security sources.Nirav Modi extradition: UK court begins hearingUK High Court begins hearing fugitive diamantaire Nirav Modi's appeal against extradition to India.Anil Deshmukh's judicial custody extended till December 27Judicial custody of former Maharashtra home minister Anil Deshmukh extended till December 27 in the ₹100 crore extortion case. Deshmukh is currently lodged in Mumbai's Arthur Road Jail.Bihar CM says state ‘highly alert’ over Omicron threat“We are highly alert in view of the Omicron threat. Till now, over 9 crore Covid-19 vaccinations have been done in Bihar. We will achieve 100% vaccination soon,” says chief minister Nitish Kumar.UN accuses Taliban of ‘at least’ 72 extrajudicial killingsUnited Nations accuses Taliban of being behind ‘at least’ 72 extrajudicial killings in Afghanistan.Can win 400 seats in Uttar Pradesh, reiterates Akhilesh YadavIf all of us come together, it is possible to convince the people of Uttar Pradesh and win 400 seats: Akhilesh Yadav, Samajwadi Party chief and former UP CM‘Democracy being killed': Rahul GandhiOppn not being allowed to raise issues in Parliament. Democracy being killed, says Congress leader Rahul Gandhi.Delhi reports 4 more cases of Omicron, tally rises to 6 Delhi has detected 4 new cases of the Omicron variant of the coronavirus, taking the total number of such infections to 6 in the national capital, health minister Satyendar Jain said on Tuesday.“Of the 6 cases, 1 patient has been discharged from the hospital. Currently, 35 Covid positive patients and 3 suspected cases are admitted to the LNJP Hospital,” Jain was quoted as saying by news agency ANI.SC allows Centre to build all-weather roads as part of Char Dham projectThe Supreme Court allows Centre to build all-weather roads, including strategic feeders leading to China border, as part of Char Dham project.PM Modi chairs meeting with CMs of BJP ruled states in VaranasiPM Narendra Modi is chairing a meeting with the chief ministers of BJP-ruled states in Varanasi. BJP chief JP Nadda, secretary organisation and some office bearers of UP BJP and BJP Kashi region are also present in the meeting.UK-India are natural partners: UK PMWith shared culture of innovation and entrepreneurial spirit, UK-India are natural partners, says UK Prime Minister Boris Johnson at Global Tech Summit.With 5,784 new cases, India's daily Covid-19 tally sees 21.3% fall, 252 new deaths recordedIndia records 5,784 new cases in the last 24 hours, a fall of 21.3% from yesterday, according to the Union health ministry data. The death toll saw jump of 252 related fatalities. Magnitude 7.6 earthquake hits Indonesia, tsunami warning issuedEarthquake of magnitude 7.6 on the Richter scale struck 95 km north of Maumere, Indonesia today: United States Geological Survey (USGS)‘Hope SAD-BSP alliance comes to power in Punjab': Mayawati I hope that the alliance of Shiromani Akali Dal (SAD) and Bahujan Samaj Party (BSP) will come to power in Punjab with the full majority in the next Assembly elections, under the leadership of Sukhbir Singh Badal, says BSP chief Mayawati, reports ANI.2 new Omicron cases in Maharashtra, 1 in Gujarat; country's tally climbs to 41Maharashtra has said two more fully vaccinated people were found infected with Omicron and a man tested positive for the latest variant of the coronavirus in Gujarat, taking the tally in the country of such cases to 41 on Monday. Read MoreOpposition to hit the streets over MPs’ suspensionMore than 18 Opposition parties have planned a march from Parliament to Vijay Chowk to protest against the suspension of 12 lawmakers from the Rajya Sabha — an issue that has already triggered daily protests inside and outside the Upper House since past two weeks. Read MoreDelhi Air Quality Index in  'very poor' categoryDelhi's Air Quality Index (AQI) is presently at 328 (overall) in the 'very poor' category, as per System of Air Quality and Weather Forecasting And Research (SAFAR)-IndiaModi inspects key developmental projects in Kashi after midnightAfter 12.30 in the night, PM Modi along with Chief Minister Yogi Adityanath revisited Kashi Vishwanath Temple. He walked from Godaulia intersection to Kashi Vishwanath Temple. PM Modi also visited Banaras railway station and inspected it. Before that, he took stock of various developmental worksThe Prime Minister is on two-day visit to Varanasi.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/breaking-news-december-14-2021-101639444365002.html
14-12-2021||India||Modi in Varanasi: On Day 2, PM to chair conclave with chief ministers of BJP-ruled states||Prime Minister Narendra Modi will attend several programmes on Tuesday, the second day of his visit to his parliamentary constituency of Varanasi in poll-bound Uttar Pradesh.On Tuesday, the Prime Minister will participate in a conclave of chief ministers of several Bharatiya Janata Party-ruled states to discuss governance-related matters and attend anniversary celebrations at a yoga foundation and meditation centre.Also Read | PM Modi opens Kashi Vishwanath corridorAccording to the itinerary shared by the Prime Minister's Office (PMO), Modi will attend the 98th-anniversary celebrations of Sadguru Sadafaldeo Vihangam Yog Sansthan at Swarved Mahamandir in Varanasi at around 3:30pm on Tuesday.Next, PM Modi will participate in the conclave with the chief ministers of Assam, Arunachal Pradesh, Goa, Gujarat, Haryana, Himachal Pradesh, Karnataka, Madhya Pradesh, Manipur, Tripura, Uttar Pradesh, and Uttarakhand. The deputy chief ministers of Bihar and Nagaland will also be present at the meeting.According to the PMO, the chief ministers will share with Modi their respective governance-related best practices to ensure that the policies are in line with the Prime Minister's “vision of furthering team India's spirit.” Following a presentation from the chief ministers on what entails good governance, the officials will visit the Kashi Vishwanath temple later in the day.Also Read | PM Modi, chief ministers watch Ganga aartiThe chief ministers of all these BJP-ruled states are also scheduled to visit Ayodhya on December 15 for the darshan of Ram Lalla.PM Modi on Monday had a jam-packed Day 1 in Varanasi, where he inaugurated phase 1 of the Kashi Vishwanath Corridor project, built at a cost of around ₹339 crore.Modi also chaired an extensive meeting with the chief ministers and deputy chief ministers of BJP-ruled states. Assam chief minister Himanta Biswa Sarma, who attended the meet, said it went on for six hours till late Monday night.Manipur chief minister N Biren Singh noted the Prime Minister is not taking any rest, even after several “hectic engagements” including the much-awaited inauguration of the Kashi Vishwanath Corridor and the six-hour-long meet.On late Monday night, Modi also visited the Varanasi railway station, as part of his efforts to inspect key development works in the city. Accompanied by Uttar Pradesh chief minister Yogi Adityanath, the Prime Minister said it is the government's endeavour to create the best possible infrastructure for the sacred temple town.To this end, he said, the central government is working to enhance rail connectivity as well as ensure clean, modern, and passenger-friendly railway stations.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/modi-in-varanasi-on-day-2-pm-to-chair-conclave-with-chief-ministers-of-bjp-ruled-states-101639439012428.html
14-12-2021||India||PM Modi, Yogi undertake midnight inspection of key development works in Varanasi||Prime Minister Narendra Modi inspected key development works in Varanasi and said it is the government's endeavour to create the best possible infrastructure for the sacred city."Inspecting key development works in Kashi. It is our endeavour to create best possible infrastructure for this sacred city," tweeted PM Modi on 12:52 AM Tuesday.Inspecting key development works in Kashi. It is our endeavour to create best possible infrastructure for this sacred city. pic.twitter.com/Nw3JLnum3mPM Modi was accompanied by Uttar Pradesh Chief Minister Yogi Adityanath during the inspection after midnight.PM Modi was seen interacting with locals and waving at people who had turned up to greet him.PM Modi chaired a meeting with the BJP Chief Ministers and Deputy chief ministers in Uttar Pradesh's Varanasi on Monday."Just concluded an extensive meeting in Kashi with BJP Chief Ministers and Deputy Chief Ministers," tweeted PM Modi.Assam Chief Minister Himanta Biswa Sarma, who attended the meeting, informed that the meet went on for six hours till late Monday night."Thank you Narendra Modi ji for enlightening us with your words of wisdom and vision for a better India during the 6 hr long exhaustive and intense deliberation," Sarma tweeted.PM Modi is currently on a two-day visit to his parliamentary constituency Varanasi where he inaugurated phase 1 of the newly-constructed Kashi Vishwanath Dham at a cost of around ₹339 crores on Monday.On December 14, at around 3:30 pm, PM Modi will attend the 98th-anniversary celebrations of Sadguru Sadafaldeo Vihangam Yog Sansthan at Swarved Mahamandir.The Prime Minister will also participate in a conclave of Chief Ministers of Assam, Arunachal Pradesh, Goa, Gujarat, Haryana, Himachal Pradesh, Karnataka, Madhya Pradesh, Manipur, Tripura, Uttar Pradesh and Uttarakhand, along with Deputy CMs from Bihar and Nagaland.The conclave will provide an opportunity to share governance-related best practices and is in line with the Prime Minister's vision of furthering team India spirit.Chief Ministers of all BJP-ruled states will give a presentation on good governance, before PM Modi on Tuesday morning. The Chief Ministers and Deputy Chief Ministers will visit Kashi Vishwanath Temple on Tuesday.Chief Ministers of BJP-ruled states are scheduled to visit Ayodhya on December 15 for the darshan of Ram Lalla.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/pm-modi-yogi-undertake-midnight-inspection-of-key-development-works-in-varanasi-101639438162305.html
14-12-2021||India||Delhiwale: The Def Col secret||One doesn’t always want to stumble upon the past. After all, there is so much contemporary stuff to handle. But Delhi is littered with souvenirs from yesterday. And this miniature time capsule in south Delhi’s Defence Colony market is too delightful to be ignored.To a certain generation that came of age in the 1960s and 70s, this corner place might bring many emotions. During those times, many neighbourhoods in the city would have at least one lending library from where to borrow a novel at a very affordable rate.Today, such libraries have become history. But 3L Library (full name: Love, Laugh and Learn) is trudging along. Stepping into it is like entering a bygone decade. You rarely see people reading the kind of novels that are stacked in the shelves here. One wall is devoted to Mills and Boon romance novels. Enid Blyton paperbacks - so popular with pre-millennial era kids - are occupying another section of prominence. There are Archie comics, too, along with rows of Danielle Steel’s sentimental novels. Also spotted: Louis L’Amour, the writer of western novels.And this is just half the story.The library stores hundreds of old issues of foreign glossies such as (British) Vogue, Esquire, Elle, Architecture Digest, GQ and Hello! You must flip through the stacks of Hello! - every cover either has Princess Diana, or her sons, or their wives, or Princess Diana’s little grandchildren.The library was founded by Rajinder Kumar Sekhri in 1965. In his 80s now, he prefers to remain at his home in Vikram Vihar due to pandemic-related concerns, according to the gracious Surman Singh Rawat, who has been managing this landmark for 35 years.He says most of the collection belongs to the owner. “There was a time when we had 5,000 members, but now we are left with only 200-300.” The pandemic has further hurt the business, he says, shaking his head.In some ways, this place isn’t exceptional. The Defence Colony market has a fair share of long-time landmarks, such as Defence Store, Malik Store, Aka Saka restaurant, Moets restaurant, Quick Electronics, Mahindra Electricals, Commercial Dry Cleaners, Broadway Dry Cleaners and Bansal Stores.Even so, 3L stands out most elegantly in this esteemed crowd. Because, well, it is the only place in the entire market devoted to books.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/delhiwale-the-def-col-secret-101639430238590.html
14-12-2021||India||BJP leader shot in MP by Bajrang Dal man, dies||A Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) leader, who was shot following an argument at a marriage function over a discourse of jailed self-styled godman Rampal being shown on an LCD screen in Madhya Pradesh’s Mandsaur district, died on Monday, police said.According to the police, the incident in Bhainsoda village of the district, some 150km from Mandsaur district headquarters, took place on Sunday, and cases were registered against 11 persons, four of whom have now been arrested. Sunil Pandey, Mandsaur SP, said BJP leader Devilal Meena, who was a former sarpanch, was shot dead by Bajrang Dal leader, Shailendra Ojha, both residents of Bhainsoda village of the district.Rampal, who had an ashram in Haryana’s Hisar, was held in November, 2014 following allegations of murders in the premises and was later sentenced to life imprisonment without remission in 2018 for murder, wrongful confinement and criminal conspiracy. Rampal opposed the Hindu rituals and held a campaign to shun the ‘holy trinity’ of the Hindu pantheon — Brahma, Vishnu, and Mahesh. “Members of Rampal’s ashram had come to the village on invitation of Meena. Ojha, who is a regional president of Bajrang Dal, opposed it and asked Meena not to allow anti-Hindu activities in the village,” the SP said.“On Sunday, a large number of villagers opened fire and also attacked the attendees with rods and canes. Meena tried to stop them, but Ojha shot at him. Meena was rushed to a hospital in Kota where he died while undergoing treatment,” said Gopal Suryavanshi, town inspector of Bhanpura. “The main accused is still absconding.”
14-12-2021||India||Coonoor residents seek memorial at chopper crash site||The people of Coonoor Wellington Cantonment in the Nilgiris district on Monday appealed to the Prime Minister and Tamil Nadu Chief Minister, to build a memorial for the country’s first-ever Chief of Defence Staff General Bipin Rawat and other soldiers, who lost their lives in a helicopter crash in the state recently.The requests were made in identical letters to Prime Minister, Narendra Modi, Defence Minister Rajnath Singh and Tamil Nadu Chief Minister M K Stalin by the public.The incident had caused grief among the public and the place where the tragedy took place is Nanjappasathiram near Coonoor, the letter said.In an effort to show their admiration for the martyred soldiers, a monument should be built at the place, belonging to Tamil Nadu Revenue department, so that the public can pay tributes to them.“Further, we request you to change the name of Kattery Park and Runnymedu railway station on the Mettupalayam-Ooty (Udhagamandalam) line, located near Nanjappasathiram to the name of Gen Rawat, a historical symbol and remembrance to his sacrifice,” the people said. General Bipin Rawat, his wife Madhulika Rawat, Lt Colonel Harjinder Singh and 10 others, all from the armed forces, were killed in the helicopter crash in Coonoor on December 8.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/coonoor-residents-seek-memorial-at-chopper-crash-site-101639423091628.html
14-12-2021||India||Autonomy of universities: War of words between Kerala governor, state government intensifies||A war of words between Kerala Governor Arif Mohammad Khan and the state government on autonomy of state universities aggravated on Monday with the ruling Communist Party of India (Marxist) and its junior partner in government CPI saying Khan’s sudden outbursts remain a “mystery” to them. Both the parties said Khan was forced to come out against the Left Front government due to pressure from some quarters. Later, the Governor hit back at them saying they can call him a “Sanghi” or any other name but he will stick to what he said and no plan to take up the chancellor’s position, if universities were not given complete autonomy. Without naming the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP), the left parties said the governor had a second thought after pressure from some quarters. “He approved a search committee and its findings and later signed appointment letters as well. Now, he has changed his stance all of a sudden. It is a mystery for us,” said CPI(M) state secretary Kodiyeri Balakrishnan. But he reiterated that the government has no plan to pursue a confrontationist line with the Governor. CPI general secretary Kanam Rajendran said by making a letter written to the CM public, the Governor crossed all limits. “It seems he’s after news. Legislature has right to set aside powers given to the Governor as chancellor. Hope he will not pressurise us to do this,” he said. The CPI mouthpiece “Janayugam” also carried a strong article against Khan. But the Governor reiterated his position. “They can call me any name but my intention is clear and there is no going back on it,” he said. He said the CM can assume the chancellor post and run varsities the way he wanted and he wouldn’t be a party to it. Khan said he was not a man to get pressurised or intimidated by anyone and people who knew him will understand this. The Governor had sent a strongly-worded letter to chief minister Pinarayi Vijayan on Dec 8 in which he said he was really pained over “dipping standard” of higher education sector and blamed “brazen political interference” as reason for this. He also asked the government to take up the chancellor’s post if political interference continued and he can’t bend further. On Sunday, though the chief minister asked the Governor not to take any precipitation action but the latter refused to budge. According to political observers, the real trigger (between Governor and government) was the reappointment of Prof Gopinath Raveendran as the vice-chancellor of Kannur University. He was reappointed for a period of four years in November after the government issued a notification and appointed a selection committee to select the new VC. The Governor also claimed that he was flooded with too many complaints about recurring political appointments in academic council and faculty. The appointment of the wife of CM’s political secretary, KK Ragesh, in a high position at Kannur University two months back had also kicked up a controversy. In April this year, the Kerala high court had quashed the appointment of CPI(M) legislator AN Shameer’s wife Shahala as the assistant professor in Kannur University. The opposition Congress and BJP asked the CM to drop higher education minister R Bindu from the cabinet. “She presided over everything and keeping quiet now,” said BJP state president K Surendran. “It is sheer misuse of power she can’t remain in the post,” said opposition leader V D Satheesan. This is not the first time the Governor and government were crossing swords. During the Citizenship Amendment Act agitation, the Governor had questioned the resolution passed by the state assembly against the CAA and later opposed the government move to file a plea in the apex court.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/autonomy-of-universities-war-of-words-between-kerala-governor-state-government-intensifies-101639422910493.html
14-12-2021||India||Telangana police forms 2 special teams to trace missing armyman||Telangana police have deputed two special teams to trace the whereabouts of a 21-year-old army jawan who went missing while returning to his camp at Faridkot in Punjab on December 7 from his native village in Siddipet district, Additional Deputy Commissioner of Police, Siddipet, M Srinivasulu said on Monday.Srinivasulu said that jawan Bukuri Sai Kiran Reddy, hailing from Pothareddypalli village of Cheryal block, had joined the Indian Army six months ago and undergone training at the Faridkot camp.After completing his training, Sai Kiran was given a 20-day break, and he visited his native village on November 16. He left for the Army camp on December 5 and was to report to his immediate superior, Captain Nikhil Sharma, on December 7, the police said.Based on the complaint lodged by the jawan’s father B Patel Reddy, the Siddipet police formed two special teams to track him down. “Based on our investigation, one team has left for Haryana and another for Punjab to know his whereabouts,” Srinivasulu said.On an intervening night, Sai Kiran boarded a 9 pm flight at Rajiv Gandhi International Airport at Shamshabad in Hyderabad. Before boarding, he made a video call to his father at around 8 pm. On December 6, when Patel Reddy called his son in the afternoon, he found that it was switched off.“At around 8.30 am on December 7, Capt Nikhil Sharma called up Sai Kiran’s father and told him that his son had not reported to the duty. Based on Patel Reddy’s request, the Army authorities approached the Assistant Inspector General of police at New Delhi Airport to find out whether Sai Kiran boarded the flight,” Srinivasulu said.The airport police, who checked the CCTV footage, revealed that Sai Kiran got down at Terminal-2 of the airport and was seen leaving the airport around midnight. “Based on these inputs, Sai Kiran’s father complained with Cheryal police and an FIR was registered immediately,” the Additional DCP said.Further inquiries by the police revealed that Sai Kiran, along with another jawan Manish, boarded a train to Faridkot at Safdarjung railway station in Delhi on December 6 morning. “Both of them got down at Bhatinda in Punjab, but after that, Sai Kiran went missing. The last signals of his mobile phone were located at Jakhal Mandi town in Fatehabad district in Haryana on December 6 evening,” the police official said. The police is yet to determine whether Manish belonged to the same camp and if he is missing too, an official said. Enquiries with the villagers revealed no problems for Sai Kiran – either personal or family. “He voluntarily took up the job in Army and has always been very active. His father is a farmer and has no financial problems. Why he went missing is still a mystery,” Ajay Kumar, one of the villagers, said.State finance minister T Harish Rao, who represents the Siddipet assembly constituency, asked the police to take the issue seriously and intensify the search for the missing jawan.
14-12-2021||India||Probe against posts on late CDS Rawat’s death inconclusive so far, says Mangaluru police||A day after Bengaluru police arrested a 40-year-old man for allegedly posting a derogatory message about the death of Chief of Defence Staff (CDS) General Bipin Rawat on Facebook, Mangaluru police, which had also filed a similar case, on Monday said that their probe has been inconclusive so far.Mangaluru police on Saturday had booked a case against two Facebook users for uploading objectionable posts on social media about late General Bipin Rawat. CDS Rawat, along with 12 others, was killed in a fatal helicopter crash at Coonoor, Tamil Nadu on Wednesday. Even though the FIR had named two persons, police are not able to ascertain whether their Facebook accounts were real or fake.“We have booked a case under sections 505(1) (B) (with intent to incite, or which is likely to incite any class or community of persons to commit any offence against any other class or community) of the Indian Penal Code,” said Mangaluru city police commissioner N Shashi Kumar told the media. “We have not made any arrest so far in the case. We are still investigating these Facebook accounts, but so far, we have not been able to identify the second person,” he added. Mangaluru police commissioner clarified that the case has been registered against “two persons operating the Facebook accounts” and not against the persons named in the FIR. The officer said they are investigating whether these accounts are fake. Police are exercising caution since in a previous case the fake account was used to trap a person. An investigation by the Karnataka Police helped a man lodged in Saudi Arabia prison for over 600 days return home on August 15 this year. Thirty-four-year-old Harish Bangera, an air-conditioning technician, was arrested on charges of blasphemy, on December 22, 2019, for making contemptuous remarks about Mecca and the king of Saudi Arabia on Facebook. A subsequent investigation by Karnataka Police revealed that the derogatory messages were posted by a fake account created by two men - Abdul Huyez and Abdul Thuyez - in the Udupi district. Police arrested the two men in October 2020, who revealed that they impersonated Bangera on Facebook. Using the details of the investigation, Bangera’s family managed to get him released.Meanwhile, 40-year-old man Vasant Kumar who was arrested by Bengaluru police was sent to judicial custody on Monday. A native of Mysuru working, Kumar was working in a private hospital in Bengaluru as a lab technician.The arrests come after Karnataka chief minister Basavaraj Bommai on Friday issued a warning against commenting disrespectfully on CDS Rawat.“Offensive Tweets and Social Media posts about the tragic chopper crash in which we lost our #CDSGeneralBipinRawat will not be tolerated. I strongly condemn all such messages and have instructed our Police Officials to take strict disciplinary legal action against the offenders,” the chief minister tweeted. Talking to media on Friday, the chief minister said: “Some persons with perverted minds have tweeted derogative, celebratory messages about the death of Chief of Defence Staff Gen Rawat. The Police Chief has been instructed to take legal action against these elements.”Home minister Araga Jnanendra, too, issued a statement instructing the state police to take stern action against those who post derogatory remarks on social media on CDS Rawat’s demise. The minister had also spoken on the issue with the Karnataka police chief, Praveen Sood, and directed to take action. “We cannot tolerate such things, berating our brave officer, who had contributed his might immensely for the noble cause of our nation, and flutter our tricolour sky-high,” he said in a statement to the media.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/probe-against-posts-on-late-cds-rawat-s-death-inconclusive-so-far-says-mangaluru-police-101639422670024.html
14-12-2021||India||Govt may allow private labs to conduct genome sequencing||The government may allow private laboratories to conduct whole genome sequencing of Sars-Cov-2 positive samples to scale up testing facilities in the wake of the threat posed by the heavily mutated Omicron variant, people familiar with the development said.“There have been talks around it, but no final decision has been made yet on the issue,” a central government official said on condition of anonymity.There was mention of this in Parliament discussions in the ongoing winter session.“There are 36 laboratories for genome sequencing in the country currently. These laboratories can do whole genome sequencing of up to 30,000 positive samples, and the capacity is being increased with the help of private laboratories,” health minister Mansukh Mandaviya said last week while speaking on the Omicron variant during question hour on Friday.It would make sense to include private labs if the Centre intends to scale up genetic sequencing to detect mutations early, industry insiders said.“India is performing probably the lowest amount of genetic testing anywhere in the world. We are probably not doing (genome sequencing) of even 1% of the positive samples, whereas there are countries like Israel that are performing genome sequencing of all positive samples. Even the US is doing it for 20-30% of its positive samples. The next thing is to expand our genetic testing like we did for molecular testing,” said GSK Velu, chairman and managing director of Neuberg Diagnostics, one of the country’s largest diagnostic laboratories.
14-12-2021||India||Anti-conversion law in focus as House resumes in Karnataka||The Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) government appears to be switching gears in the state assembly as ministers are set to propose laws on anti-conversion and ‘love jihad’ among others that suit the party’s core ideology with less than two years to go before the assembly polls in the state, leaders said. Chief minister Basavaraj Bommai said the government would table a law that prevents forcible conversions in the winter session of the state legislature that commenced in Belagavi on Monday. “The Law Department is studying the proposed draft, and it would be introduced in the legislative session after clearance from the Law Department and the state cabinet,” Bommai said before the commencement of the session. “We are saying it from the beginning – We are committed to getting anti-cattle slaughter, anti-conversion laws. I will go one step further and say that in the coming days, we will introduce laws against Love Jihad,” V Sunil Kumar, Karnataka’s minister for energy, Kannada and culture, said on Monday. Kumar is a three-time legislator from Karkala, Udupi. “We are among those who grew up fighting these issues,” Kumar added. The statements come when the BJP has been pushing through contentious laws, which are core to its ideology and that of Sangh Parivaar, an umbrella term for right-wing organisations. The BJP high command has been trying to get its way in both the BS Yediyurappa and Bommai governments, which would help them fulfil goals in line with their ideology. Despite coming from the Janata Dal background, Bommai, who has been in the BJP for the last 13 years, has been pushing hard to help achieve right-wing goals, in line with the Prime Minister Narendra Modi-led Union government, that would help seal his candidature as party’s chief ministerial candidate in 2023, people aware of the developments said. Yediyurappa, who was seen as a more secular face within the BJP, too, said that the law should be passed in the ongoing session. “There is a hope to bring this (anti-conversion law). Several other states have also brought this. For that the anti-conversion law should be brought and passed in this session,” Yediyurappa said. Since the proposal to bring in the anti-conversion law by the state government during the monsoon session between September 13 and 24, there has been a visible rise in the number of incidents related to moral policing, hate crimes and communally charged comments by several right-wing groups in the state, people aware of the developments said. The Christian community, especially, has alleged that there have been at least 40 incidents of such crimes against them across the state. According to the Association for Protection of Civil Rights (APCR), in their report titled ‘‘Christians Under Attack in India’, released on Sunday, there have been 305 incidents of violence in the 273 days of 2021 between January and September across the country. The report added that between January and September, Uttar Pradesh recorded the highest monthly incidents with 66, followed by Chhattisgarh (47). Karnataka recorded 32 incidents, the report added. APCR said that a total of 1,362 calls were received by the United Christian Forum helpline. Belagavi, the host city for the winter session, has also witnessed incidents of crimes against minorities in the past few days, including an order by the police not to conduct prayers till the legislative session is complete. The order has since been withdrawn. “It is a political move. There was always a law against the forceful conversion of any religion or any community. But our Constitution says that it has given every citizen freedom to practice, prorogate he/she wants,” Siddaramaiah, the Congress’ leader of Opposition, said on Monday. He added that the law proposed by the Bommai government ‘violates the provisions of the Constitution. “If there is forceful conversion, let them take action. But, where is the necessity to bring again the anti-conversion law? It is only targeting a particular community and religion,” Siddarmaiah said, adding that Congress will oppose the Bill in the House. “This law will encourage moral policing. Hinduism is strong in the country. Even after the arrival of Mughals and Portuguese, the population of Hindus is more in the country,” KJ George, senior Congress leader said on Monday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/anticonversion-law-in-focus-as-house-resumes-in-karnataka-101639422611689.html
14-12-2021||India||4 held for aiding Omicron patient leave India using fake -ve report||Four people have been arrested for allegedly helping a 66-year-old South African national, who was the first reported case of Omicron variant in India, leave the country with a fake Covid-19 negative certificate, the Bengaluru police said on Monday.Among those arrested are two employees of a Bengaluru-based private lab and two employees of a company, where the South African national is a director. The High Grounds police had registered a case on December 5 under relevant sections of IPC and the provisions of the Karnataka Epidemic Diseases Act, 2020, after the government claimed the patient left the country, evading authorities, using a fake certificate.Senior police officials said while the employees of the lab located on Airport Road were arrested for creating the fake Covid negative certificates, the employees were arrested for facilitating the same on behalf of the South African national.“We have taken four people into custody, and we are investigating further,” said MN Anucheth, deputy commissioner of police, central. “We are investigating if they are part of a larger racket issuing fake certificates.”The 66-year-old had reached Bengaluru on November 20 and tested positive on arrival.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/karnatakafour-held-for-helping-omicron-patient-leave-country-issuing-fake-report-101639422610021.html
14-12-2021||India||Two new Omicron cases in Maharashtra, India’s tally at 40||Two new Omicron cases were reported in Maharashtra on Monday, taking the state’s tally for the new variant of coronavirus to 20, the health department said, adding both patients were asymptomatic.With the new cases, India’s total tally of the new variant reached 40. The two cases were reported from Pune and Latur districts; both were fully vaccinated and had recently travelled to Dubai, the state health department said. The infected person from Pune has been identified as a 39-year-old woman, while the one who tested positive for Omicron in Latur is a 33-year-old man. Both the patients are asymptomatic and have been moved to isolation facilities in their respective districts, the health department said, adding they had returned from Dubai in the first week of December.The administration tested three close contacts each of the two infected persons and all have tested negative for Covid-19.So far, nine of the 20 Omicron variant cases have been discharged after testing negative for Covid-19. The state’s tally for Omicron, with the two new cases, jumped to 20, of which 10 cases were reported in Pimpri-Chinchwad municipal corporation area, followed by five in Mumbai, Pune (2), Kalyan-Dombivli (1), Nagpur (1) and Latur (1), the health department said.Between December 1 and Monday morning, 85,078 passengers, including 12,996 from ‘at risk’ countries, have arrived at international airports in Mumbai, Pune and Nagpur. The administration has detected 32 Covid-19 cases, including 24 from ‘at risk’ countries.Additionally, field surveillance of all international passengers who have arrived since November 1 is underway. Through airport and field surveillance, 107 samples have been sent for genome sequencing so far and results of 20 are awaited, the health department said.Maharashtra, meanwhile, added 569 fresh Covid-19 cases, taking the state’s tally to 6,644,452. The state also added five deaths, taking the toll to 141,264, the health department said on Monday, adding the active case count in the state stood at 6,507.Mumbai reported 160 new Covid-19 cases and two deaths, taking its tally to 765,442 and toll to 16,359. The active cases in Mumbai stood at 1,751, the health department said.Ahmednagar added 49 cases, while Pune district added 132 cases.
14-12-2021||India||Requests for aid exceeding Covid toll, cleared most: Gujarat to Supreme Court||Gujarat told the Supreme Court on Monday that it received 22,557 applications for Covid-19 ex-gratia compensation and sanctioned payment in 16, 175 cases, far higher than the official virus death tally in the state that stood at 10,099.The development came during a hearing in the top court, where judges directed Gujarat and Maharashtra to expedite the process of paying compensation, and noted the anguish of the common man who was made to wait to receive an amount of ₹50,000 as a one-time solatium. The top court had, on October 4, ruled that the money be given to the beneficiaries after due publicity.“Till date, 22,557 applications have been received for payment of ex-gratia compensation, out of which sanction order has been passed for 16,175 cases. Out of the 16,175 cases which have been sanctioned, direct benefit transfer (DBT) has been done for 14,215 cases,” said an affidavit dated December 9, filed by the commissioner of relief, Gujarat.As of Monday, Gujarat’s official Covid-19 death toll was 10,099.The one-time compensation is being disbursed according to the Supreme Court’s orders on June 30 and October 4, which detailed guidelines for disbursal of compensation. These norms are more accommodating than the stricter standards to determine Covid-19 deaths adopted by govenment-appointed death audit committees.The SC norms said that deaths occurring within 30 days from the date of being tested will be treated as Covid-19 deaths, as will those cases where the patient was admitted for more than 30 days in hospital and died subsequently. Moreover, even in cases where the death certificate didn’t mention Covid-19 as the cause of death will also be considered for compensation, provided the next of kin fulfilled other criteria.In contrast, death audit committees -- which were set up by many governments, including Gujarat -- didn’t consider deaths that occurred 30 days from the day of testing, and the reason of death in many death certificates wasn’t mentioned as Covid-19 if the patient had co-morbid conditions.These distinctions might have resulted in more compensation applications than deaths counted previously, as people excluded by the more conservative norms became eligible to claim payment under the ex-gratia guidelines, said experts.Maharashtra, which reported about 140,000 deaths, also filed an affidavit in the top court and said it managed to process claims of only 8,000 people .The court felt that Gujarat did not adequately publicise the online claims portal though the state said that the number of claims had risen from 12,718 on December 4 to 22,557 now. The portal was operative from December 3, said the affidavit.“The common man is waiting and struggling to get ₹50,000. How will you inform them? We find that all the publicity is only on paper. Advertisements have to be issued in all newspapers giving the address of the online portal. The same has to be also shown on local channels, Doordarshan, and local newspapers,” said a bench of justices MR Shah and BV Nagarathna.The bench directed Maharashtra to process the nearly 84,000 claims received within a week, and asked Gujarat to ensure adequate publicity is provided about the ex-gratia scheme in local channels and newspapers.Maharashtra’s counsel Sachin Patil told the court that the state aimed to process claims of almost 50,000 families by the end of this month, and that publicity was done in 121 newspapers.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/request-for-compensation-exceeding-covid-toll-cleared-most-gujarat-to-sc-101639422250057.html
14-12-2021||India||Lakhimpur SIT wants accused to be charged with attempt to murder||A Special Investigation Team (SIT) probing the Lakhimpur Kheri violence has filed an application before the area’s chief judicial magistrate to add new sections against 13 accused, including Section 307 of the Indian Penal Code, making their offence punishable under attempt to murder charges.Vidhyaram Diwakar, the SIT’s investigating officer, filed the application on December 9 in the CJM’s court for adding new sections in the warrant, replacing sections 279, 338 and 304A of the IPC.In his application, the investigating officer pointed out that the October 3 incident in Lakhimpur Kheri was a well-planned and deliberate act, not an act of negligence or callousness.The investigating officer has requested to add sections 307 (Attempt to murder), 326 (Voluntarily causing grievous hurt by dangerous weapons or means), 34 (Acts done by several persons in furtherance of common intention) of the Indian Penal Code after replacing sections 279 ( Rash driving or riding on a public way), 338 (Whoever causes grievous hurt to any person by doing any act so rashly or negligently) and 304A (Causing death by negligence) of the IPC.Eight people, including four farmers and a local journalist, were killed in Uttar Pradesh’s Lakhimpur Kheri on October 3 in the violence that erupted during a farmers’ protest.The SIT has so far arrested 13 people in the case. Those arrested are Ashish Mishra, son of Union minister of state for home Ajay Mishra, Luvkush, Ashish Pandey, Sekhar Bharti, Ankit Das, Latif, Sishupal, Nandan Singh, Satyam Tripathi, Sumit Jaiswal, Dharmendra Banjara, Rinku Rana and Ullas Trivedi.They are lodged in the Lakhimpur Kheri district prison.The Lucknow bench of the Allahabad high court on December 10 gave two weeks’ time to the state government to file a counter-affidavit on the bail application of Ashish Mishra. During the hearing of the case, additional advocate general Vinod Shahi, representing the state government, apprised the court about the ongoing investigation in the case.Shahi said that statements of a large number of witnesses were still to be recorded. Accepting the plea, the court granted two weeks’ time to the state government to file a counter-affidavit on bail application of Ashish Mishra.
14-12-2021||India||BJP holds events across India to mark Kashi Vishwanath Corridor’s inauguration||New Delhi: The Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) on Monday organised programmes at various temples across the country to celebrate the inauguration of the Kashi Vishwanath Corridor by Prime Minister Narendra Modi, with Union ministers calling the event “historic”.In New Delhi, Union home minister Amit Shah said the PM had done unique work to revive the pride of the faith centres as the carrier of Indian culture and the protector of religion.“Kashi, the city of Baba Vishwanath, has been a shining symbol of sanatan (ancient) culture for centuries. Today, Prime Minister Narendra Modi ji has written a golden chapter in the history of Indian culture by launching the grand form of Kashi Viswanath dham while re-realising his unique devotion to religion,” Shah tweeted.BJP president J P Nadda thanked Modi for the “revival” of Kashi and cultural and spiritual heritage of “sanatan” religion.In a series of tweets in Hindi, Nadda, who was also present at the ceremony in Varanasi, said the PM revived the “divine, wonderful, unimaginable and grand form of Kashi” besides the spiritual and cultural heritage of “sanatan dharma”.Union minister Piyush Goyal visited the Birla temple in Delhi and heard hte PM’s speech in Varanasi. “Kashi now will sparkle in its traditional charm and will present country’s history and culture,” he tweeted.Finance minister Nirmala Sitharaman tweeted: “The reconstruction of this Dham started in…2018…In its history, the temple alone was renovated many times…this is the first time the entire Vishwanath Dham has been rebuilt successfully. What PM Modi has done is phenomenal.”“PM Narendra Modi by inaugurating Kashi Vishwanath Dham programme today has added a new chapter in country’s cultural history. I thank PM from bottom of my heart for this,” Union defence minister Rajnath Singh tweeted. In another tweet, he said, the PM’s name will be remembered any time someone mentioned Kashi Vishwanath.Many BJP-ruled states were represented in Varanasi either by chief ministers or deputy chief ministers. “Because of Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s leadership, the country is full of undefined energy and self-confidence. Without doubt, under your guidance the Indians will overcome every impossible challenge,” Madhya Pradesh chief minister Shivraj Singh Chouhan tweeted.In Mumbai, former chief minister Devendra Fadnavis and senior party leader Pankaja Munde participated in a function at Babulnath temple while state BJP president Chandrakant Patil attended a function at a temple in Pune. In Madhya Pradesh, the BJP organised functions called ‘Divya Kashi Bhavya Kashi’ in different districts of the state, where live telecast of the inauguration and series of events by the PM was broadcast on big screens. In Tripura, BJP leaders performed special prayers at 150 temples.“This is the beginning of a new era,” Sharma said and added that the PM had shown new path on how to save culture and tradition with development. The mega project comprises 24 buildings including an emporium, a museum, a sacred kitchen, a Vedic library and centre to store ancient scriptures, a city gallery and a food court – all built around the temple that serves as one of the nerve centres of the Hindu faith, attracting seven million pilgrims annually. The showpiece of the project is the restoration of the link between the Ganga and the temple, an ancient connection that had been cut off by years of encroachment, construction and population.Modi reached the corridor by boat around noon, took a dip in the Ganga and offered prayers, before carrying holy water across the roughly 500m corridor and dedicating the complex, comprising 24 buildings built over 550,000 square feet, to the nation. In the evening, he watched the Ganga aarti from a boat at Dashashwamedh Ghat.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/bjp-holds-events-across-india-to-mark-kashi-vishwanath-corridor-s-inauguration-101639421470044.html
14-12-2021||India||India opposes UNSC resolution that sought to 'securitise' climate change||India on Monday opposed a UN Security Council draft resolution on climate change on the grounds that it sought to “securitise” the issue and that the body was not the appropriate forum to discuss such matters.The draft resolution was framed by Ireland and Niger, who are members of the UN Security Council responsible for leading negotiations and drafting resolutions on climate change. Though it was backed by 12 of the council’s 15 members, Russia vetoed the resolution while China abstained. The resolution sought to portray climate as an issue that threatens global peace and security but people familiar with the matter said the UN Security Council was not the proper forum to discuss the matter.The Indian mission to the UN said in a tweet that the country voted against the draft resolution “that attempted to securitize climate action and undermine the hard-won consensual agreements” at the COP26 conference in Glasgow.“India had no option but to vote against [the resolution],” TS Tirumurti, India’s permanent representative to the UN, said while explaining the country’s vote.“India is second to none when it comes to climate action and climate justice, but the Security Council is not the place to discuss either issue. In fact, the attempt to do so appears to be motivated by a desire to evade responsibility in the appropriate forum and divert the world’s attention from an unwillingness to deliver where it counts,” Tirumurti said.India, he said, is moving forward on climate change with “great courage and high ambition”, but the country also understands the challenges of developing nations and will “continue to voice their concerns and expectations”. There should be no confusion about India’s determination to combat climate change and the country will always support “real climate action and serious climate justice”, he added.Tirumurti said the Indian prime minister had unveiled an ambitious climate action vision with five elements at COP26 – taking non-fossil energy capacity to 500 GW by 2030, meeting 50% of energy requirements from renewable energy by 2030, reducing total projected carbon emissions by one billion tonnes by 2030, reducing the carbon intensity of economy to less than 45% by 2030, and achieving the target of “net zero” by 2070.India now ranks fourth in terms of installed renewable energy capacity and non-fossil energy has increased by more than 25% in the past seven years and reached 40% of the total energy mix. India has also taken the lead in initiatives such as the International Solar Alliance (ISA) and Coalition for Disaster Resilient Infrastructure (CDRI).Affordable access to climate finance and technologies has become critical, and developed countries must provide climate finance of $1 trillion at the earliest, Tirumurti said. “The reality is that developed countries have fallen well short of their promises. This is particularly important to recognise because today’s attempt to link climate with security really seeks to obfuscate lack of progress on critical issues under the UN FCCC (Framework Convention on Climate Change) process,” he said.India was also concerned about the manner in which the issue was brought before the Security Council, and there was “no real requirement for this resolution except for bringing climate change under the ambit of the Security Council”, Tirumurti said.The decisions were made without the involvement of most developing countries and without recognising consensus, he said. The UN Security Council members are “major contributors to climate change due to historic emissions” and the position that a few countries will have a “free hand” in deciding all climate-related issues is “neither desirable nor acceptable”, Tirumurti said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/india-votes-against-climate-change-draft-resolution-at-unsc-101639421351157.html
14-12-2021||India||BJP holds events across India to mark Kashi Corridor’s unveiling||The Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) on Monday organised programmes at various temples across the country to celebrate the inauguration of the Kashi Vishwanath Corridor by Prime Minister Narendra Modi, with Union ministers calling the event “historic”.In New Delhi, Union home minister Amit Shah said the PM had done unique work to revive the pride of the faith centres as the carrier of Indian culture and the protector of religion.“Kashi, the city of Baba Vishwanath, has been a shining symbol of sanatan (ancient) culture for centuries. Today, Prime Minister Narendra Modi ji has written a golden chapter in the history of Indian culture by launching the grand form of Kashi Viswanath dham while re-realising his unique devotion to religion,” Shah tweeted.BJP president JP Nadda thanked Modi for the “revival” of Kashi and cultural and spiritual heritage of “sanatan” religion.In a series of tweets in Hindi, Nadda, who was also present at the ceremony in Varanasi, said the PM revived the “divine, wonderful, unimaginable and grand form of Kashi” besides the spiritual and cultural heritage of “sanatan dharma”.Union minister Piyush Goyal visited the Birla temple in Delhi and heard hte PM’s speech in Varanasi. “Kashi now will sparkle in its traditional charm and will present country’s history and culture,” he tweeted.Finance minister Nirmala Sitharaman tweeted: “The reconstruction of this Dham started in…2018…In its history, the temple alone was renovated many times…this is the first time the entire Vishwanath Dham has been rebuilt successfully. What PM Modi has done is phenomenal.”“PM Narendra Modi by inaugurating Kashi Vishwanath Dham programme today has added a new chapter in country’s cultural history. I thank PM from bottom of my heart for this,” Union defence minister Rajnath Singh tweeted. In another tweet, he said, the PM’s name will be remembered any time someone mentioned Kashi Vishwanath.Many BJP-ruled states were represented in Varanasi either by chief ministers or deputy chief ministers.“Because of Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s leadership, the country is full of undefined energy and self-confidence. Without doubt, under your guidance the Indians will overcome every impossible challenge,” Madhya Pradesh chief minister Shivraj Singh Chouhan tweeted.In Mumbai, former chief minister Devendra Fadnavis and senior party leader Pankaja Munde participated in a function at Babulnath temple while state BJP president Chandrakant Patil attended a function at a temple in Pune.In Madhya Pradesh, the BJP organised functions called ‘Divya Kashi Bhavya Kashi’ in different districts of the state, where live telecast of the inauguration and series of events by the PM was broadcast on big screens. In Tripura, BJP leaders performed special prayers at 150 temples.“This is the beginning of a new era,” Sharma said and added that the PM had shown new path on how to save culture and tradition with development.The mega project comprises 24 buildings including an emporium, a museum, a sacred kitchen, a Vedic library and centre to store ancient scriptures, a city gallery and a food court – all built around the temple that serves as one of the nerve centres of the Hindu faith, attracting seven million pilgrims annually. The showpiece of the project is the restoration of the link between the Ganga and the temple, an ancient connection that had been cut off by years of encroachment, construction and population.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/bjp-holds-events-across-india-to-mark-kashi-corridor-s-unveiling-101639421108135.html
14-12-2021||India||‘Matchless experience’: Locals on inauguration||The inauguration of the Kashi Vishwanath Corridor on Monday was a matchless experience, said residents of the Hindu holy city of Varanasi basking in the festive glow on the occasion.The famed lanes of Varanasi, its ghats, temples, intersections and bridges were lit up with festive lights. Its usually dirty roads and lanes were spotless. The locals lighted over 1.1 million earthen lamps at the ghats, lanes and in front of their houses, residents said.“The Kashi Vishwanath Corridor’s inauguration was na bhuto, na bhavishyati (unparalleled) experience for us,” said Somnath Vishwakarma, a resident. “Baba Kashi Vishwanath is the centre of faith for crores of Hindus like us. The corridor, which is also known as Kashi Vishwanath Dham, is unique and so has been its inauguration.”“With Baba Kashi Vishwanath’s blessings, Prime Minister Narendra Modi has built the Kashi Vishwanath Corridor project,” said Shailendra Mishra, a Bharatiya Janata Party worker deployed to make arrangements for the ceremony. “The project has added to the spiritual vibrancy of Kashi.” Varanasi is also known as Kashi, where the ruling deity is Lord Shiva, whose another name is Vishwanath.“The Kashi Vishwanath Corridor and its unique features will transform the experience of the devotees visiting Kashi Vishwanath temple,” said Vijay Yadav, who visits the shrine daily to offer prayers.Many people voluntarily decorated their houses with ornamental lights, he said, adding that the earthen lamps imparted a glow only seen during the festival of lights.“The Kashi Vishwanath Corridor is grand, divine and unique,” said Ashwani Pandey, co-convenor of the month-long cultural programmes associated with the inauguration. “The entire country watched the inauguration of the Kashi Vishwanath Corridor. The inaugural ceremony was so grand that it left people enthralled. For us, it was once in a lifetime occasion.”Devotees will now get a taste of spirituality and comfort when they visit the Kashi Vishwanath temple through the spacious corridor, said Pandey. The corridor will help increase the earnings of boatmen as many devotees will likely visit the Kashi Vishwanath temple by boat because the corridor has connected the temple with the Ganga, he said.“Devotees may board a boat at any of the ghats and reach Kashi Vishwanath Dham while enjoying the scenic view of the ghats and the Ganga flowing calmly,” Pandey said. “The pilgrimage to Kashi will be an entirely new experience.”
14-12-2021||India||Akhilesh takes jibe at PM; BJP hits back, calls him ‘cruel, uncivilised’||Hours after Prime Minister Narendra Modi inaugurated the Kashi Vishwanath Corridor in Varanasi, Samajwadi Party (SP) chief Akhilesh Yadav taunted him, saying people visit the city “when the end is near”.Yadav said it was good that the government has planned cultural functions through the month to mark the event. “Why only a month? He (Modi) should stay for two months, three months. It is a good place to stay,” he said.Modi represents Varanasi in Lok Sabha. The city is part of Uttar Pradesh’s Purvanchal region, which sends 160 MLAs in the 403-member state assembly. The most populous state will elect a new assembly early next year. SP is the main opposition in UP.Yadav took a swipe at the ruling Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP), saying its leaders should “avoid telling lies” before god. “They are good at telling lies in front of you and me. But one should avoid telling lies in front of god.”The BJP condemned Yadav’s taunts for PM Modi and equated the SP chief with Mughal emperor Aurangzeb. Union minister Pralhad Joshi said, “If he had any empathy about Hindu beliefs, he would have welcomed the inauguration of Kashi Vishwanath Dham. But all he is bothered about is his vote bank. Political differences are one thing but to wish someone end is condemnable. People will teach him a lesson.” He added that“such cruel and uncivilised comments show his mindset”.The Congress blamed the BJP and the SP of playing politics. State Congress president Ajay Kumar Lallu said the BJP government acted against the “faith of the people by demolishing the old temples of Kashi.(With PTI inputs)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/akhilesh-takes-jibe-at-modi-over-kashi-corridor-bjp-calls-sp-chief-cruel-uncivilised-101639421050431.html
14-12-2021||India||PM Modi to address national summit on zero-budget natural farming in Gujarat||Prime Minister Narendra Modi will address a national summit to popularize zero-budget natural farming (ZNBF) on December 16 in Gujarat’s Anand, as policymakers prepare for a big push for the technique agricultural scientists say is unproven. The National Summit on Agro and Food Processing, in which Modi is set to make a valedictory address via videoconferencing, is being organized by the Gujarat government. Nearly 5,000 farmers are expected to take part, besides 80 institutes of the Indian Council of Agricultural Research and Krishi Vigyan Kendras, or state-run farm-extension centres. “In the summit, basic knowledge on how to adopt zero-budget natural farming will be showcased,” agriculture secretary Sanjay Agarwal said in a media briefing on Monday. “The purpose is to impart knowledge.”On November 19, Modi, while announcing a decision to cancel the three contentious farm laws after a year of protests, had said the Centre would set up a committee to ensure minimum support prices and promote zero budget farming. On November 11, addressing a rally in Uttar Pradesh’s Balrampur after inaugurating the Saryu Canal national project, Modi again called upon cultivators to adopt natural farming to save costs and increase yields. ZBNF, a technique of farming developed by Padma awardee Subhash Palekar of Maharashtra, aims to bring down input costs by making farmers rely on natural inputs, shifting away from agricultural chemicals. It mainly relies on an admixture of urine and dung of native Indian cows. The technique is not scientifically validated, and there is no evidence to show if it added any value to farmers, agricultural scientists say. In 2019, the National Academy of Agricultural Sciences (NAAS) wrote to Modi, expressing concern over the possible negative impacts of ZBNF on farm incomes and food security. In August 2019, the NAAS, which has nearly 650 fellows, had held a day-long brainstorming session of top scientists to scrutinize the scientific evidence around ZBNF. It was attended by Trilochan Mohapatra, director-general of the Indian Council of Agricultural Research, and Ramesh Chand, member of the NITI Aayog, the government’s think tank.“We had recommended that unless there is scientific evidence about its efficacy and benefits, there is no need for the government to rush for it,” said Panjab Singh, a top farm scientist and former president of NAAS. “In our interaction so far, we have seen that in this technique, there is zero costs for inputs, such as fertilisers, since everything is available naturally and the produce also fetches higher prices,” secretary Agarwal said. At the heart of ZBNF is the idea that nearly 98% of nutrients needed by crops, such as CO2, nitrogen, water and sun, are available naturally and free of cost. The remaining nutrients need to be absorbed from the soil. They are converted from non-available to available form through the action of microorganisms and a special admixture of cow dung and cow urine. Farmers using the technique saw nearly 90% reduction in costs, Gujarat chief secretary Pankaj Kumar said. The agriculture ministry had ordered a study in XXX year by the ICAR led by Praveen Rao Velchala, vice-chancellor of Jayashankar Telengana State Agriculture University, to study the benefits of ZBNF. “The study is nearly over. We are going to submit out findings soon,” Velchala said. “All I can say is that with so many agro-climatic zones in our country, a one-size-fits-all approach will not work.” Although there is no scientific poof of its benefits, the Union government has promoted ZNBF on 400,000 hectares across eight states as part of the Paramparagat Krishi Vikas Yojana, a scheme to promote organic farming. 
14-12-2021||India||India votes against UNSC draft resolution on the climate crisis||India on Monday voted against the adoption of a draft resolution by the UN Security Council on climate change sharply criticizing it as an attempt “to undermine the hard-won consensus which we reached in Glasgow” and would “sow the seeds of discord among the larger UN membership”.The draft resolution, which was written by UNSC members Ireland and Niger (penholders in this UNSC on climate change) and backed by 12 of the body’s 15 members, sought appropriate climate change discussions portraying climate as an issue that threatens international peace and security.India, China and Russia have opposed it and voted against it.“Climate change decisions are sought to be taken out of the wider international community represented in the UNFCCC (United Nations Framework Convention on Climate Change) and given instead to the Security Council,” TS Tirumurti, Indian permanent representative to the UN, said in a statement explaining India’s opposition to the draft.He added: “Ironically, many of the UNSC members are the main contributors of climate change due to historical emissions. If the Security Council indeed takes over the responsibility on this issue, a few states will then have a free hand in deciding on all climate-related issues. This is neither desirable nor acceptable.”India is “second to none” when it comes to climate action and climate justice but the UN Security Council was not the platform for them. “Today’s UNSC Resolution attempts to undermine the hard-won consensus which we reached in Glasgow,” Tirumurti said, referring to the last UN climate change meet. “This resolution would only sow the seeds of discord among the larger UN membership.”The Indian ambassador to the UN went on to that the draft resolution “sends a wrong message to the developing countries that instead of addressing their concerns and holding developed countries responsible for meeting their commitments under the UNFCCC, we are willing to be divided and side-tracked under the guise of security”.The way forward instead was to provide affordable access to climate finance and technologies. “Developed countries must provide climate finance of $1 trillion at the earliest. Climate finance must be tracked with the same diligence as climate mitigation. And the reality, Mr President, is that the developed countries have fallen well short of their promises.”Developed countries had committed decades ago to contribute to a climate fund of $100 billion every year to support climate action in developing countries, and they have not yet met the target. — the latest available data for 2018 is $79 billion.“This is particularly important to recognize because today’s attempt to link climate with security seeks to obfuscate lack of progress on critical issues under the UNFCCC process,” said Tirumurti.The ambassador listed out India’s commitment as laid out by Prime Minister Narendra Modi at the Glasgow meet:: India will take its non-fossil energy capacity to 500 GW by 2030; it will meet 50% of its energy requirements from renewable energy by 2030; it will reduce the total projected carbon emissions by one billion tonnes from now till 2030; cut carbon intensity of its economy by less than 45%; and achieve Net Zero goal by 2070.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/india-votes-against-unsc-draft-resolution-on-the-climate-crisis-101639420990730.html
14-12-2021||India||NDPS (Amendment) Bill gets LS approval||The Lok Sabha on Monday passed a bill to rectify errors that had crept into the Narcotic Drugs and Psychotropic Substances (Amendment) Act as finance minister Nirmala Sitharaman asserted that the retrospective provision made in the bill was not “substantive” in nature, as claimed by the opposition. The NDPS (Amendment) Bill, 2021 was passed by a voice vote after some amendments moved by opposition members were rejected by the House.In the House, several opposition members questioned the retrospective penal provision in the bill which seeks to rectify the anomalies, saying the amendments will not hold good in courts. BJD member Bhartruhari Mahtab, Congress member Manish Tewari were among those who opposed the retrospective applicability of the provision, saying according to law, criminal provisions cannot be brought into force on a retrospective basis.Sitharaman, however, said the amendments proposed only seek to correct certain “clerical error”. She said the bill has a very limited purpose and seeks to achieve “nothing more”. “Amendments with retrospective effect to substantive part of criminal law is not permitted, but clarificatory amendment that seeks to remove an obvious mistake is permitted,” she said.With PTI inputs||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/ndpsamendment-bill-gets-lok-sabha-approval-101639420450596.html
14-12-2021||India||SC paves the way for bipolar man to be a judge||Eleven years ago, Bhavya Nain, then 25, was diagnosed with bipolar disorder, a mental health condition causing extreme mood swings including emotional highs and lows, and according to the World Health Organization, the sixth leading cause of disability worldwide.Nain was prescribed medication, and advised counselling by a psychiatrist. Both helped him manage the disability, and, Nain, a law graduate, set voyage on an uncharted course – to become a judge.On Monday, the Supreme Court declared the end of at least this phase of his journey, ordering his immediate appointment as a judicial officer in Delhi along with appropriate seniority. A bench, headed by justice Sanjay Kishan Kaul, held that there is no impediment in Nain taking charge as a judicial officer in one of the district courts in the national capital and discharging his duties as a judge.The bench, which included justice MM Sundresh, relied upon the report from a medical board, constituted by it on November 17, while clearing the decks for appointment of Nain in what could be the first such order that breaks the glass ceiling in judicial appointments.The medical board, which comprised experts in psychiatry and physical medicine and rehabilitation (PM&R) interacted with Nain, and also examined his medical records before informing the bench that “there is nothing to indicate that he will not be able to discharge his responsibilities to the post of judicial officer for which he has been selected”.Nain cleared the Delhi Judicial Service-2018 examination after applying under the category of persons with disability (PwD). He got through all three rounds of the examination, including the interview, but his candidature was rejected in May 2019 by the Delhi high court administration.When Nain challenged this decision before the high court on the judicial side, the administration argued that Nain would not be able to effectively discharge his duties as a judicial officer because of his mental illness; and that his disability cannot be construed as permanent or long-term in nature since Nain is under remission and his condition is likely to improve.Once the disability falls under 40% at some point in future, the high court argued, Nain would not be entitled to the benefit of reservation under the Rights of Persons with Disabilities Act, 2016.A high court decision in May 2020 allowed Nain’s plea, underlining that the 2016 Act included mental illness as a form of disability for which reservation had to be accorded to the eligible candidates.“It appears that the Parliament granted reservation, inter alia, to PwD – who suffer from mental illness (which does not include retardation, as taken note of hereinabove), so that such persons get an opportunity to lead a normal life with encouragement and dignity. Merely because they may need medication and treatment throughout their lives, or may suffer setbacks from time to time, cannot be a reason to deny them equal opportunity to assimilate in the society, make their contribution and have a life of dignity,” the high court judgment noted.Firm on its views that Nain should not be inducted as a judicial officer, the administration challenged this order in the Supreme Court, arguing that he cannot be granted the benefit of relaxed standard admissible to candidates belonging to persons with disability since his disability is not lifelong, and that his condition could improve in future. The high court administration also raised serious questions over Nain’s ability to preside over a court and decide cases.In August 2020, the Supreme Court stayed the operation of the high court judgment but asked the administration to keep one post vacant for Nain in case it ruled in his favour.Nain, through his lawyers, told the top court that the very fact that he cleared the examination including the viva-voce buttressed the case for his ability to handle the judicial work, more so since bipolar disorder is a medical problem which can be tackled with proper medication.When the court, in its hearing on November 17, found it appropriate to constitute a medical board for ascertaining Nain’s capability to efficiently discharge his duty as a judicial officer, his lawyers highlighted the innate social prejudices which arise while considering such cases for appointment, besides absence of parameters to judge the capacity of a judge.At this, the court said that “the medical board will keep its objectivity, looking at the candidate, the task which he is required to perform on appointment, and his medical condition” while asking the director of the All India Institute of Medical Sciences to set up a board for this task.The medical board’s report informed the bench that Nain indeed suffers from bipolar disorder but has been in remission (asymptomatic) since August 2018. The board also advised Nain to continue his regular treatment and follow-up with his treating psychiatrist.Taking on record the expert opinion, the apex court ruled that Nain “is entitled to succeed”, directing the high court administration to appoint him as a judicial officer and also give him notional seniority along with his other batchmates who joined after clearing the DJS-2018 exam.Saima Zaidi, a counselling psychologist and psychotherapist, said: “People who suffer from bipolar disorder can live an absolutely normal life while managing their personal and professional relationships. Bipolar disorder requires lifelong management with a combination of psychotherapy and medication. Cognitive behavioral therapy is the most effective therapy, as it works on cognition and thinking pattern of a person. Medication for mood stabilizing and/or anti-depressants are usually prescribed with an advice to avoid triggers such as caffeine, alcohol and stress while having a balanced diet, regular exercise, consistent schedule and a good nights sleep.”
14-12-2021||India||PM Modi opens Kashi Vishwanath corridor||Prime Minister Narendra Modi inaugurated the ₹700 crore Kashi Vishwanath Corridor in Varanasi on Monday, exhorting citizens to take pledges for cleanliness and self-reliance, and saying that a new India took pride in retrieving historical glory while striving for modernity.Modi reached the mega redevelopment project by boat around noon, took a dip in the Ganga and offered prayers, before carrying holy water across the roughly 500m corridor and dedicating the complex, comprising 24 buildings built over 550,000 square feet, to the nation. In the evening, he watched the Ganga aarti from a boat at Dashashwamedh Ghat.“This complex is a witness to our capability, of our duty. If it is determined and thought, then nothing is impossible,” he said. “Today history has been created by reviving the sociocultural history of this ancient city, which is vibrant with Hindu philosophy as enshrined in our religious books.”Addressing a gathering of 3,000 guests, the PM urged Indians to make three resolutions for the sake of the country: Swachhta (cleanliness), Srijan (creation), and continuous efforts for Aatmanirbhar Bharat (self-reliant India).In a 45-minute speech in his parliamentary constituency, Modi said India was focused on reviving its lost heritage and was stepping out of the “inferiority” complex brought on by centuries of “slavery”.“Tyrants attacked this city, tried to destroy it. History is witness to Aurangzeb’s atrocities, his terror. He tried to change civilisation with the sword,” he said. “But the soil of this country is different from the rest of the world. Here if an Aurangzeb comes, a Shivaji also rises,” he added, raising the chant of ‘Har Har Mahadev’, associated with Hindu god Shiva.“If any Salar Masud comes, then brave warriors like King Suheldev make him taste the might of India’s unity. And even during the British era, the people of Kashi knew what happened to Warren Hastings.”Modi started his visit by offering prayers at the Kaal Bhairav temple. Around 12.15pm, he took a boat to the Lalita Ghat entrance of the corridor, a project on which work began in earnest in 2019.He then took a dip in the Ganga, collected holy water in a kalash (a metal vessel used in rituals) and walked across the corridor – with devotees playing the damru (a two-headed drum) on either side. The inauguration ceremony was attended by Uttar Pradesh chief minister Yogi Adityanath, Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) chief JP Nadda, Union ministers Mahendra Nath Pandey and Dharmendra Pradhan, and other dignitaries.After the ceremony, Modi and Adityanath had lunch with the workers who built the corridor, which aimed to transform the area around the centuries-old temple in Varanasi with state-of-the-art buildings and opening access to the Ganga.During his two-day visit – which comes months before high-stakes state elections – the PM will also participate in a conclave of chief ministers of Assam, Arunachal Pradesh, Goa, Gujarat, Haryana, Himachal Pradesh, Karnataka, Madhya Pradesh, Manipur, Tripura, Uttar Pradesh and Uttarakhand, along with the deputy CMs of Bihar and Nagaland.In his speech, Modi called Varanasi “imperishable” and a “class apart”, and took on his political opponents. He said when the corridor was conceived, some people, due to their vested interests and politics, used to say, “How will it happen? It will not happen. Many people like Modi have come and gone.”“But Kashi is Kashi. Kashi is imperishable,” he added. “There is only one government in Kashi, the government of Mahadev who holds damru in his hand”.“With blessings of Baba Vishwanath, the grand corridor has been built, and has been dedicated to the nation today. The inauguration of Kashi Vishwanath Dham will give a decisive direction to India, and will lead it to a brighter future. This complex is a witness to our capability, our duty. If it is determined and thought, then nothing is impossible,” Modi said.“No one comes to Kashi, and nothing happens without Mahadev’s grace. Whatever happens here happens with the will of Mahadev. Whatever happened, Mahadev has done it.”Before inaugurating the corridor, Modi greeted workers with flowers and sat with them on the stairs of a platform. Earlier, petals were showered on him on the streets of Varanasi, and the PM accepted a “pagdi” (turban) from a man.“When you come here, you will not see only faith, you will also feel the glory of your past here — how antiquity and novelty come alive together, how the inspirations of the ancient are giving direction to the future. In Vishwanath Dham complex, all this is visible,” he said.“This entire new complex of Vishwanath Dham is not just a grand building, this is also a symbol of the sanatan (ancient) culture of India. This is a symbol of our spiritual soul, a symbol of India’s antiquity, traditions, India’s energy and dynamism,” Modi added.The mega project comprises 24 buildings including an emporium, a museum, a sacred kitchen, a Vedic library and centre to store ancient scriptures, a city gallery and a food court – all built around the temple that serves as one of the nerve centres of the Hindu faith, attracting seven million pilgrims annually. The showpiece of the project is the restoration of the link between the Ganga and the temple, an ancient connection that had been cut off by years of encroachment, construction and population.Modi said the complex has been expanded from 3,000 to 500,000 square feet, and between 50,000 and 75,000 devotees could gather at any given time. He credited the workers for finishing the project despite the pandemic.“Today, I would also like to express my gratitude to every labourer brother and sister, who shed their sweat in the construction of this grand complex and even in times like corona, they did not let the work stop here,” he said. “Along with all this, I also congratulate chief minister Yogi Adityanathji, who worked day and night.”The PM called cleanliness a way of life and called for the people’s participation in this enterprise, especially in the Namami Gange Mission, which aims to curb pollution and rejuvenate the Ganga.“The long period of slavery broke our confidence in such a way that we lost faith in our own creation. Today, from this thousand-year-old Kashi, I call upon every countryman — create with confidence and innovate.”The Opposition attacked the PM. Samajwadi Party chief Akhilesh Yadav taunted him, saying people stay in Varanasi when the end is near. “It is good,” he said when told that Modi was in Varanasi. “Why only a month? He should stay for two months, three months. That is a good place to stay.”
14-12-2021||India||2 dead as J-K police bus hit by terrorists||Two policemen were killed and 12 other officials suffered serious injuries in a terrorist attack on a bus carrying personnel of the Jammu and Kashmir Armed Police on the outskirts of Srinagar on Monday evening, officials said.Prime Minister Narendra Modi sought details of the attack and expressed condolences to the families of the deceased, the Prime Minister’s Office said.The bus carrying at least 24 officials of the 9th battalion of Jammu and Kashmir Indian Reserve Police Battalion came under fire from terrorists in Zewan in Pantha Chowk area at around 6.50pm, the police said. The officials were deployed in the Srinagar city and were returning to the headquarters when the bus came under attack.The area houses several camps of various security forces. Initially, officials said 14 police personnel were injured in the attack and were evacuated to various hospitals in the area.“Terrorists fired upon a police vehicle near Zewan in Pantha Chowk area of Srinagar. 14 personnel injured in the attack. All the injured personnel evacuated to hospital. Area cordoned off,” a tweet from the official handle of the J-K police spokesperson said soon after the attack.Assistant sub-inspector Ghulam Hassan from Ramban and selection grade constable Shafique Ali from Reasi died during treatment, the spokesperson later said.Some of the injured personnel were reported to be critical, the spokesperson said.Citing “credible sources”, Kashmir inspector general of police Vijay Kumar said that the attack was carried out by Kashmir Tigers, an offshoot of the Pakistan-based Jaish-e-Mohammed (JeM). “In the retaliatory firing, one of the terrorists was injured and the group involved in this gruesome terrorist attack will be soon brought to justice,” he said.The area has been cordoned off and a search operation launched to track down the assailants, the officials said. At least three terrorists were involved in the attack, the officials said.The attack came on the 20th anniversary of the attack on the Parliament building in the national capital by JeM. On December 13 in 2001, terrorists attacked the Parliament complex, killing nine people. All five terrorists were shot dead.In a tweet, the Prime Minister’s Office said: “PM Narendra Modi has sought details on the terror attack in Jammu and Kashmir. He has also expressed condolences to the families of those security personnel who have been martyred in the attack.”Jammu and Kashmir Lieutenant Governor Manoj Sinha and top politicians also condemned the terror attack.“Strongly condemn the cowardly terrorist attack on J-K Police bus in Srinagar. My homage to our brave martyred police personnel. We are committed to ensure that perpetrators are punished. My heartfelt condolences to the bereaved families,” Sinha said on Twitter.“Directed the concerned authorities to provide best possible treatment to the injured. I pray for their speedy recovery. Our police and security forces are determined to neutralize the evil forces of terrorism,” he said.Former Jammu and Kashmir chief ministers Omar Abdullah and Mehbooba Mufti also offered condolences to the bereaved families.“Terrible news of a terror attack on a police bus on the outskirts of Srinagar. I unequivocally condemn this attack while at the same time send my heartfelt condolences to the families of the deceased & prayers for the injured,” National Conference leader Abdullah tweeted.Mufti, meanwhile, attacked the Centre for a “false narrative of normalcy” in Kashmir. “Terribly sad to hear about the Srinagar attack in which two policemen were killed. GOIs false narrative of normalcy in Kashmir stands exposed yet there has been no course correction. My condolences to the bereaved families,” she tweeted.The attack came days after two policemen were killed in an attack in Kashmir’s Bandipora district on December 10.This is the second major terror attack in the Valley after a string of targeted civilian killings along the Union territory.Earlier in September 2017, one policeman was killed and three were injured when terrorists attacked a police vehicle in the same area.(With agency inputs)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/2-dead-as-j-k-police-bus-hit-by-terrorists-101639420391072.html
14-12-2021||India||Opposition to hit the streets over MPs’ suspension||More than 18 Opposition parties have planned a march from Parliament to Vijay Chowk to protest against the suspension of 12 lawmakers from the Rajya Sabha — an issue that has already triggered daily protests inside and outside the Upper House since past two weeks.The march, to be joined by Opposition leaders of both the Lok Sabha and the Rajya Sabha, will be held on Tuesday noon. Leader of the Opposition Mallikarjun Kharge told HT that protests will continue through different forms of Satyagraha. “We have to fight it. We have to tell the people why our people were suspended and how wrongly they have been kept out of the House. Our fight will continue and find other methods like a march or asking all political parties addressing to the press. We will continue our protests through different forms of Satyagraha,” he said.Trinamool leader Dola Sen, one of the 12 suspended MPs protesting daily in front of the Gandhi statue, said, “We have been suspended as we wanted to raise people’s issues. In the last session, Opposition MPs were suspended three times. Yet, the government dragged the last session’s incidents to this session to stop us again from speaking in the House.”While the Lok Sabha worked smoothly on Monday, Congress MPs walked out of the Rajya Sabha protesting against the continued standoff over the suspensions. Kharge said the government has not conceded to their demand to revisit the suspension.Speaking in the House, Kharge said the Opposition has repeatedly requested the chair to reconsider the suspension of MPs accused of disrupting the proceedings on the last day of the monsoon session.“You are the custodian of this house, the government cannot dictate what we should do or not do. Our deputy leader has already spoken to you and also to the leader of the house but they are repeatedly refusing to concede our request. They are putting blame on us…it is not good therefore,” he said.Later in the day, he wrote to the Chairman of the House, requesting him to withdraw external security forces that are posted in the lobbies, referring to the alleged harassment of opposition lawmakers during the monsoon session.In his letter, reviewed by HT, Kharge cited the August 11 incident wherein Opposition MPs were allegedly attacked and harassed by Delhi Police personnel. “These people were unknown to the members and that became the primary cause of suspicion, which led to unruly scenes..,” he said.Earlier, Anand Sharma of the Congress and Dravida Munnetra Kazhagam’s (DMK) Tiruchi Siva urged the chair to revisit the action taken against the suspended MPs. CPI MP Binoy Viswam later told HT, “We are contemplating various ways of protests. We have also sought permission for a demonstration at Jantar Mantar.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/opposition-to-hit-the-streets-today-over-mps-suspension-101639420331953.html
14-12-2021||India||‘RS chair has authority to revoke suspension’: Congress' Kharge||Mallikarjun Kharge, leader of the opposition in the Rajya Sabha, has been spearheading protests over the suspension of 12 MPs for unruly scenes in the previous session of Parliament. Speaking to Saubhadra Chatterji, he said that the protests will continue through various forms of satyagraha.While the Rajya Sabha chairman has asked the government and opposition to sort out the issue of suspension, the government is adamant on an apology from the suspended members.Why should we apologize? Did we violate any business transaction or constitutional matter in the House? The incident took place in the last session, but just to insult the opposition, they brought the matter in this session and suspended 12 MPs. These members are vocal fighters always taking up people’s cause in the House. That’s why the government tried to suppress the voice of these people.The protest has been going on for the past two weeks. What is the next step?We have to fight it. We have to tell the people why our people were suspended and how wrongly they have been kept out of the House. Our fight will continue and we will find other methods like a march or asking all political parties addressing to the press. We will continue our protests through different forms of satyagraha.Any plan to meet the President, who summons all Parliament sessions?Now, one House (Lok Sabha) is running well. The problem is only with the Rajya Sabha. And it is pretty clear why the Rajya Sabha is facing daily disruptions. When the chairman has got full power, and he himself said that he can take any action and expel anyone, it is my appeal that the chairman should not listen to the government and revoke the suspension. He has the authority to do that.Remember in a recent incident in British Parliament, the speaker reminded the British Prime Minister that in the House the former is in charge.You made several legal arguments on why the suspension process is wrong. Is there any thinking to challenge this decision in a court of law?We had thought about it. But you know, the court procedure would be lengthy, and by the time it delivers a judgment, the session would be adjourned. Also, in these cases, the court is likely to maintain that the House is supreme and can take its own decisions. Our political fight will continue in various other forms.
14-12-2021||India||What we know about Omicron variant so far||The first fatality due to an Omicron infection has been confirmed from the UK, the variant has now reached China – where the Sars-CoV-2 was first found – and several countries are pressing on with large booster dose campaigns to blunt the threat from the heavily mutated virus.In the short time since it was designated as a variant of concern (VOC) at the end of November, Omicron is confirmed to have two of the three most threatening traits a mutated Sars-CoV-2 can pick up: it is more transmissible and resistant than any configuration of the coronavirus that causes Covid-19.The severity of the disease it leads to – the third characteristic being watched for – is yet to be confirmed, although anecdotally, it could be less severe.Several scientists see the arrival of Omicron as consistent with a prediction that the coronavirus will eventually become endemic, evolving every now and then to lead to some serious outbreaks, like what was seen in the annual flu outbreak in 2014-15.Two evolutionary biologists, University of Cape Town’s assistant professor Darren Martin and Temple University professor Sergei Pond, in a recent online discussion sketched out what they believe will be the main scenarios for Omicron’s evolution, building on what has been seen so far with the Sars-Cov-2.The assessments consider the immune or selection pressure the virus faced and is likely to face – this is the nature of collective immunity that can dictate the evolutionary landscape of a contagious pathogen, which naturally attempts to evolve to keep spreading.Scenario 1: No immune pressureIn this case, Omicron spreads with no selective pressure like the first version of the virus during the early phase of the pandemic. But such a situation is unlikely, since now many people worldwide have either been infected or vaccinated.In such a situation, Omicron is unlikely to “coast” across the global population like the virus that spread out of Wuhan did until December 2020 (when Alpha variant began taking over).Scenario 2: Weak or moderate pressureWhat happens when Omicron faces a weak or moderate selective pressure? The scientists estimate the virus will become the dominant strain, and evolve rather slowly without significant changes in how it inherently spreads, resists antibodies, and causes disease. Over time, some mutations may better these functions, but probably only in small pockets.Scenario 3: Strong selective pressureSeveral factors can strongly force Omicron to mutate, including competition with the fittest Delta sub-lineage; low genetic barriers that allow it to pick up certain mutations; and, if Omicron evolves with an alternative animal species, it could select additional mutations to better infect humans. This scenario is one to watch out for since it would “be expected to play out over a considerably shorter time frame”.Scenario 4: Recombination wildcardRecombination is when a concurrent infection with two different variants can cause the virus to take an evolutionary leap after the fittest of mutations from both make through.There are already two distinct Omicron lineages, and more may be discovered over time, which could recombine, the authors suggest. The increased infectivity of Delta and Omicron too “substantially increases the probability of mixed infections”, which could lead to such recombination.This scenario sounds grim but presently, the scientific community has “no idea whether the potential even exists” and what might happen if such a thing does indeed happen.Predicting Omicron’s evolution is difficult – Pond and Martin titled their arguments as a “Fool’s Errand” -- and only time will tell the route the virus takes, but the scenarios will help shape how sequences of the virus are analysed and, in the future, as more data emerges, predict which of the cases are likely to become reality
14-12-2021||India||Rise in attacks on Christians a worry in MP||St Joseph Parish, Ganj Basoda, in Madhya Pradesh’s Vidisha district, organized its first holy communion, a religious ceremony, for eight Christian catholic children at a local Church on October 31. But the organisers were not aware that publication of the event in a local Christian magazine would irk local Hindu groups so much that they would attack and vandalise the school where the function was held.On December 6, police said a group of people affiliated to the Hindu groups such as Vishwa Hindu Parishad (VHP) and Bajrang Dal, forcefully entered St Joseph School, attacked the staff and vandalised classrooms. School authorities alleged that the attack was the culmination of a series of attacks by Hindu groups since November 25.“On Sunday (December 5), they (Hindu groups) threatened the school administration with dire consequences. We asked for police protection and only two constables were deployed the next day. On December 6, more than 200 people reached the school shouting ‘Jai Shri Ram’ and ‘Dharma ki raksha kaun karega hum karenge hum karenge’ (Who will protect religion? We will, we will) and started vandalizing,” said school principal Brother John Anthony.VHP’s Vidisha district president, Nileesh Agrawal, accused the school of not giving them names of eight children whose communion was organised. “We met school authorities at least thrice. We just wanted to verify the claim that communion was for Christian children,” he said. He refuted that VHP was behind the attack.After the incident, the police arrested 11 people and registered a case against 50 unidentified people for rioting and causing damage to property. Vidisha superintendent of police, Monika Shukla, said, “The school principal gave names of all the eight children, who are Catholic. Of the 11 arrested, three have been sent to jail while eight have been released on bail.”Not in isolationChristian community leaders claim the incident is the latest in a series of attacks on Christian priests, religious places and schools in the past few months. According to Christian body, United Christian Forum (UCF), 70 incidents, including 32 violent attacks, have been reported from Madhya Pradesh after the MP Freedom of Religion Act came into force in January 2021 while 22 incidents were reported from MP in 2020. “We would verify whether this number is correct,” said MP home minister Narottam Mishra.According to the state home department, 17 FIRs have been registered against Christians under the MP Freedom of Religion Act and 75 people, including 10 women, have been arrested. The department has no district-wise data on cases for assault or vandalisation.UCF national coordinator, AC Michael, said, “The right-wing activists are fiercely attacking our churches, prayer halls, schools and now even family gatherings just because they suspect conversion.”The UCF report also mentions that on November 11 in Jhabua, sub-divisional magistrate Anil Bhana cited VHP functionary Kamal Maharaj’s memorandum to issue an order banning any Christian events without permission of the district administration. The order, issued to police stations in the district, said there was a complete ban on “mass conversion” of tribals to Christianity without permission of the district magistrate and that “if any such event takes place under your jurisdiction, then take necessary action immediately.”After this order, local Christians claimed all Sunday prayers have been discontinued because Hindu group activists would interrupt and harass pastors and fathers. In October, the district administration stopped construction of a church after protests by Hindu groups. District collector Somesh Mishra said, “Construction was put on hold as we have sought land papers from the Church. They are yet to submit papers.” In Sagar, two nuns reportedly working with HIV infected children were arrested under anti-conversion law after some locals suspected them of converting the children to Christianity, Michael said.A local police officer, who was not willing to be named, said the nuns were arrested on complaints of local Hindu groups and have been released on bail.MP Catholic Church Association public relations officer, Maria Stephen, said, these groups “are getting the support of police, district administration and even ministers of state government.” Mishra refuted the claim and said he has assured Archbishop Rev Dr Sebatian Durairaj that churches would be protected provided they are running as per law.Education targetedHome department data shows three educational institutions -- St. Joseph School, Vidisha, Catholic Hostel, Raisen and Christ Jyothi School, Satna --have been attacked since October.In October, Hindu groups asked authorities in Christ Jyoti Senior Secondary School in Satna district, to place an idol of Goddess Saraswati in the school, according to Father Augustine Chittuparambil, school principal, who claimed to be “living under fear” after the incident and have appointed more security personnel.In Raisen district, a girl’s hostel being run by a Christian missionary organization was closed after National Commission for Protection of Child Rights chairperson Priyank Kanoongo in an inspection on November 11 claimed a Bible was found in possession of Hindu girls. Following this, the hostel was closed, said local officials.On December 2, Kanoongo forwarded complaints by local Hindu group leaders to Vidisha collector against St Joseph School, alleging conversions. On December 8, he asked the Sagar police to investigate a complaint against Sevadham Ashram alleging that children were forced to eat beef and recite Bible. “NCPCR is taking cognizance of fake complaints. It is a national organisation and should behave sensitively,” said Stephen.Kanoongo said the NCPCR was doing its job. “If school and administration run by Christian communities have any issues, they can approach us,” he said. “They (Christian schools) should be transparent in holding prayers and issues related to conversion.”According to Christian bodies, missionary schools, especially in tribal areas, are under attack.They also claim applications for renewal of registration of seven missionary schools in Indore division have been refused. School education joint director of Indore division Hansa Arya rejected the applications on the ground that there was no clarity over land ownership. Arya refused to comment.Minister speaksHome minister Narottam Mishra refuted the allegation that he was supporting VHP and Bajrang Dal activists. “It’s my duty to save my culture and tradition. It is wrong to say that I am bearing Hindutva flag,” he said, adding that action will be taken against VHP and Bajrang Dal activists if they were found responsible.The minister said in MP the minority communities are not under fear and only those who are involved in wrong practices are scared.Hindu group functionaries such as Rashtriya Swayamsewak Sangh’s Dharm Jagran Smapark president, Omkaar Singh, said, “New schools, churches and hostels of Christian missionaries have come up to take advantage of the poor condition of people. This has been going on in the tribal districts of Jhabua and Alirapur for long.”The two pre-dominantly tribal districts are among the poorest in the country. In Jabhua, 68.86% of population is below poverty line and in Alirajpur, 71.31% is poor.
14-12-2021||India||Can’t blame Centre for delay in judicial appointments: Rijiju||The central government cannot be blamed for delay in judicial appointments because it is incumbent upon the government to do “due diligence” to ensure that a person is fit to be appointed as a judge, Union law minister Kiren Rijiju told the Rajya Sabha on Monday.Speaking during the debate in the Upper House on the bill to amend the judges’ salaries and services acts, the minister said, “The Department of Justice has to do due diligence. When we get names from High Court collegiums, a parallel list is sent to the Supreme Court collegium so that we can save precious time. There is a process for doing due diligence….if we find that a particular person is not fit to be a Judge, then how can we be forced to appoint him?” he said.The Rajya Sabha on Monday cleared and returned the bill to amend the High Court Judges (Salaries and Conditions of Service) Act, 1954 and the Supreme Court Judges (Salaries and Conditions of Service) Act, 1958, to bring clarity concerning the date of eligibility of additional quantum of pension to retired judges of both Supreme Court and high courts.The High Court and Supreme Court Judges (Salaries and Conditions of Service) Amendment Bill, 2021 was returned to the Lok Sabha as it is a money bill. The Upper House of Parliament has limited powers when it comes o money bills; these are passed by the Lok Sabha and sent to the Rajya Sabha merely for recommendations and suggestions; the Rajya Sabha has to send them back (with or without suggestions) within 14 days.The bill, passed by the Lok Sabha on December 8, will replace the high court judges (Salaries and Conditions of Service) Act, 1954 and the Supreme Court judges (Salaries and Conditions of Service) Act, 1958.During the discussion on the bill, members of the Upper House raised issues related to vacant posts, the need to have a fixed cooling-off period for judges, inadequate representation of the SC/ST community in the judiciary, delays, and security of judges and inside courts among other issues.On the issue of inadequate representation of SC/ST and other backward classes, Rijiju said the government has written to chief justices of high courts stressing that while recommending names for consideration as judges, they should include names of candidates belonging to the “SC,ST or other backward classes and also women”.While placing the bill in the Rajya Sabha, Kiren Rijiju said, “This is a very limited amendment which we have brought in the said Acts and for a limited purpose. It is not going to affect in any manner the judges’ salaries. It is only related to a quantum jump in the pension of retired judges of the Supreme Court and the high courts.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/cant-blame-centre-for-delay-in-judicial-appointments-rijiju-101639419790201.html
14-12-2021||India||Govt opens helpline to report atrocities on SC, STs||The Union government on Monday launched the National Helpline Against Atrocities (NHAA) to ensure the proper implementation of the Scheduled Castes and the Scheduled Tribes (Prevention of Atrocities) Act, 1989, and to report any violations.The toll-free and round-the-clock helpline was launched by Union social justice and empowerment minister Virendra Kumar.“NHAA will ensure registration of every complaint as an FIR, relief is provided, and all registered complaints are investigated and all charge sheets filed are prosecuted in the courts for decision within the given timelines in the Act… Ending atrocities and discrimination against Scheduled Castes /Scheduled Tribes is our top priority,” the minister said.The helpline will be available in Hindi, English and the regional languages of the respective states and Union territories. The helpline number is 14566.“The helpline can be accessed by making a voice call /VOIP either from a mobile or landline number of any telecom operator across the country… It will also be available as a web-based self-service portal. The NHAA will generate informed awareness about the various provisions of the Prevention of Atrocities (PoA) Act, 1989 and the Protection of Civil Right (PCR) Act, 1955 that are aimed at ending discrimination and provide protection to all,” the ministry of social justice and empowerment said in a statement.The helpline will also have a grievance tracking system, and the feedback system will also be made available to the complainants.“Every provision of the Acts related to the victim shall be monitored and compliance shall be ensured by triggering communication/ reminders with State/UT implementing authorities in the form of sending messages /e-mails,” the statement added.The prevention of atrocities Act prohibits discrimination, prevents atrocities and hate crimes against scheduled castes and scheduled tribes.Hansraj Suman, chairperson of Delhi University SC, ST and OBC teachers association, said: “The government should do a wide publicity of this helpline so that those who actually need it get to know about it.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/govt-opens-helpline-to-report-atrocities-on-scs-sts-101639419609829.html
14-12-2021||India||Pakistani woman intruder killed in Jammu: Police||A Pakistani woman intruder was gunned down by the Border Security Force (BSF) along the international border (IB) in RS Pura sector of Jammu district late on Sunday, a senior official said on Monday.A BSF spokesperson said, “Alert BSF troops neutralised the intruder near BSF fencing inside IB and thwarted the infiltration attempt last night (Sunday).”“The BSF troops noticed suspicious movement in RS Pura area and repeatedly warned the intruder not to cross the IB but the intruder kept running aggressively towards border fencing,” he added.The spokesperson said the intruder was aged around 30 and 32 years old and the incident occurred around 8 pm.The incident took place near Khuralla post in Allah Mai De Kothe area of RS Pura sector.“Nothing incriminating was recovered from her. We have informed Pak Rangers about the intruder and their response is awaited,” he added.A BSF official on condition of anonymity said, “We are not sure whether the woman was mentally unsound or not but she had entered into the Indian territory, repeatedly ignoring warnings of the BSF men.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/pakistani-woman-intruder-killed-in-jammupolice-101639419429840.html
14-12-2021||India||CBSE drops controversial passage, Sonia raises issue in House||The Central Board of Secondary Education (CBSE) on Monday decided to drop a controversial comprehension passage in the Class 10 English Board exam and give full marks to all students, following an uproar over the board allegedly promoting “gender stereotyping” and “regressive notions”.The passage, which featured in the exam on Saturday, drew sharp criticism as it appeared to draw a link between “lack of parental authority in the home” and “the emancipation of the wife”. “What people were slow to observe was that the emancipation of the wife destroyed the parent’s authority over children,” reads part of the passage to test comprehension of students in the examination. “It was only by accepting her husband’s sway that she (wife) could gain obedience from the young,” reads another part of the passage.In a statement, CBSE controller examinations Sanyam Bhardwaj said, “The matter was referred to a committee of subject experts. As per their recommendations, it’s been decided to drop the passage No. 1 and it’s accompanying questions of the question paper series JSK/1. Full marks will be awarded for this passage to all students concerned.”“To maintain uniformity, full marks will be awarded to all students for passage No. 1 in all sets of the question paper of the Class 10 English language and literature exam,” he added.The clarification came even as Congress president Sonia Gandhi, in a rare intervention in Parliament, demanded an apology from the board over the “blatantly misogynist” passage and asked the Union education ministry to review gender sensitivity in its curriculum.Quoting from the controversial passage, Gandhi said in the Lok Sabha, “This contains atrocious statements such as ‘women gaining independence is the main reason for a wide variety of social and family problems’.” She further quoted the passage which claimed “wives stopped obeying their husbands” and that is “ the main reason why children and servants are undisciplined” , stressing on “children and servants” twice as she spoke.Claiming there is a “nationwide outrage regarding a shockingly regressive passage” in the comprehension section of the CBSE exam held on December 11, Gandhi said, “The entire passage is riddled with such condemnable ideas and the questions that follow are equally nonsensical.”In the Lok Sabha, Gandhi demanded that the CBSE should immediately withdraw this question and issue an apology. She also demanded a review to ensure such a mistake “never, never” happens again.The Congress president also sought a review on gender sensitivity standards in the curriculum.Earlier in the day, Congress leader Rahul Gandhi and Priyanka Gandhi also tweeted the controversial passage.
14-12-2021||India||Goa polls: Not here to divide but unite anti-BJP vote, says Mamata||West Bengal chief minister and Trinamool Congress (TMC) president Mamata Banerjee on Monday raised the pitch for the upcoming Goa elections and said that her intention was not to “split the vote” against the ruling Bharatiya Janata Party, but rather to “unite” it.Addressing a rally in Benaulim, Banerjee also attacked the Congress, stating that no party had sole claim to the Opposition space. “I do not want to speak against the Congress.“You want to join, join us. Just because you (Congress) are not doing anything, no one else will do it? this is not right....If anyone wants to defeat the BJP, then it’s up to them to support us.”During her speech, Banerjee on Monday also said that Mother Teresa was “very affectionate” towards her.“Mother Teresa was very affectionate to me,” Banerjee said in an election rally in the Christian-dominated constituency.“Once when the Left Front government was there (in power in West Bengal), at midnight she (Mother Teresa) rang me up and said, ‘Mamata, those leftists are capturing one house of ours. Can you help me?’ I went there and settled it and saved her,” said Bengal chief minister Banerjee, who is on a two-day tour of Goa ahead of the elections.Lone NCP MLA joins TMCThe NCP’s lone MLA in the state, Churchill Alemao, on Monday merged the party’s legislative wing with the TMC.“Why should I resign as MLA? I continue to be the MLA. I have merged the party’s legislative wing with the TMC,” he said. Later, Alemao joined the TMC in the presence of its Banerjee.When contacted in Mumbai, NCP’s national spokesperson Nawab Malik told PTI over the phone that people often quit one party and join another during the election time.“If he (Alemao) wants to go to the TMC, that is his choice. He had joined our party in the last election…How does it matter whether he resigns or not at this juncture since the polls are around the corner,” the Maharashtra minister said.With agency inputs||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/goa-polls-not-here-to-divide-but-unite-anti-bjp-vote-says-mamata-101639419193134.html
14-12-2021||India||Advised to extend moratorium on new engineering colleges, govt tells Parliament||A committee constituted to look ways to overhaul engineering education in the county in 2018, which advised the government to stop approving new engineering colleges for two years starting 2020, has, in its interim report, recommended extending the moratorium barring some exceptions, the Union ministry of education informed Parliament on Monday.The committee cited low enrolment in engineering and diploma programmes across the country as the reason behind the recommendation, the ministry said.The All India Council for Technical Education (AICTE) in 2018 constituted the committee under the chairmanship of BVR Mohan Reddy, a technology entrepreneur and chairman of the Indian Institute of Technology (IIT), Hyderabad, to recommend short-term and medium-term plans for engineering education in India.The trigger was AICTE’s observation that seats were lying vacant in several engineering colleges.In 2019, the Reddy committee advised AICTE to stop approving new colleges from the academic year 2020 and “review” the creation of new capacity every two years after that. “The committee observed that capacity utilization during 2017-18 in undergraduate and postgraduate level was 49.8% (intake capacity vs enrolment ),” the ministry said.In a written response to a question in Lok Sabha, Union education minister Dharmendra Pradhan said that after two year, AICTE gave the task of reviewing the moratorium to the committee headed by Reddy.“The committee held three meetings on 18.10.2021, 10.11.2021 & 30.11.2021 and reviewed the engineering capacity, enrolment and placement data over the last three years in engineering institutions. In light of low enrolments in the engineering and diploma programmes across the country, the committee in its interim report submitted in December recommended to continue the moratorium on approving new engineering colleges in the country barring a few exceptions,” Pradhan said in the statement.The committee’s recommendation comes at a time when engineering colleges in India recorded a 10-year-low in terms of the number of seats being offered this year. Officials cited the closure of over 340 colleges between 2018-19 and 2020-21 and the moratorium on opening of no new colleges as the reason behind drop in the number of seats. But despite this, the gap between admissions and capacity was significant.In his response in the Lok Sabha, the minister presented the data, according to which the total approved intake or capacity in AICTE approved engineering institutions declined from 26,95,333 from academic year 2012-13 to 23,66,728 in academic year 2021-22.The intake was 24,42,948 in 2020-21, and 25,39,682 in 2019-20.But according to the data, enrolment remained low . For instance, against the capacity of 24,42,948 in 2020-21, only 12,75,880 students enrolled, a capacity utilisation of 52.2%.In 2019-20, only 14,10,683 students enrolled against 25,39,682 seats, a capacity utilisation of 55.5% , and in 2018-19, only 14,16,319 did out of 27,11,068 available seats, a utilisation of 52.2%.
14-12-2021||India||Top court refuses to interfere with HC order giving relief to Suvendu||The Supreme Court on Monday refused to interfere with a Calcutta high court order restraining the West Bengal police from taking any coercive action in criminal cases pending against Leader of Opposition in the state Suvendu Adhikari.Adhikari had approached the high court over seven criminal cases lodged against him by the state government and sought a stay of his arrest in those cases. The high court on September 6 gave an interim direction staying coercive action against Adhikari even as it directed the state to file its response within four weeks.A bench of justices Dhananjaya Y Chandrachud and AS Bopanna said, “Since the high court is seized of the proceedings, and the special leave petitions arise from an interlocutory order, we are not inclined to exercise the jurisdiction of this Court under Article 136 of the Constitution.”The Court allowed the state to file its response before the high court and move an application to lift the stay on the arrest.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/supreme-court-refuses-to-interfere-with-calcutta-high-court-order-giving-relief-to-suvendu-101639418889717.html
14-12-2021||India||Aircraft deliveries and inductions now likely to resume, say experts||As domestic passenger traffic nears pre-Covid levels in India, aircraft deliveries and inductions put on hold due to the pandemic are expected to resume and accelerate, experts said.There are 710 aircraft flying on domestic routes. Although airlines will be inducting new planes, it will mostly be replacements and not new purchases, experts said. However, the Indian aviation sector is likely to be benefitted both through fleet expansion and inducting fuel-efficient aircraft by replacing old ones, they said.Budget carrier SpiceJet will be inducting 50 B737Max aircraft by March 2023, chairman and managing director Ajay Singh said at a recent event, without specifying the total number of planes likely to be added to its fleet. Besides B737MAX, SpiceJet also uses Bombardier Q400 aircraft. Full-service carrier Vistara, a joint venture between India’s Tata Group and Singapore Airlines, aims to have around 70 aircraft by 2023, up from the current 49, industry insiders said, but declined to be named.Even so, it’s not certain that the recovery in domestic travel demand will hasten fleet expansions of Indian carriers because the pace was slackening even before the pandemic disruption, experts said.India’s scheduled airlines will together have over 1,000 aircraft, up from the current 710, civil aviation minister Jyotiraditya Scindia said last week.“Aircraft induction was essentially augmenting supply to meet growing demand,” said Dhiraj Mathur, former partner at PwC, a consultancy. “Currently, air demand has picked up and continues to grow.”“We plan to ramp up with the 350 plane order, which starts at the end of 2023 and, therefore, 2022 will be a sort of plateau,” said a spokesperson of budget carrier IndiGo.The Gurugram-based air carrier had announced plans to phase out all its A320 CEO planes with the more fuel-efficient A320NEO aircraft. IndiGo has 61 A320 CEOs in its fleet and has phased out around 60% of them between April 2020 and September 2021. All such planes will be phased out by financial year 2022-23, its spokesperson said. Vistara had leased nine Boeing 737 planes in 2019 from the lessors of Jet Airways after the latter was grounded in April 2019.The two airlines preparing to start operations are Akasa promoted by Rakesh Jhunjhunwala and Jet 2.0 promoted by Jalan Kalrock Consortium.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/aircraft-deliveries-and-inductions-now-likely-to-resume-sayexperts-101639418649857.html
14-12-2021||India||2 LeT terrorists killed in Srinagar encounter, rifles recovered: Police||Two Lashkar-e-Taiba (LeT) terrorists were killed during an encounter with security forces at Rangreth area in Jammu and Kashmir’s Srinagar on Monday, police said.This was the third such encounter in the past three days and at least six terrorists have been neutralised so far, they added. Providing further details, a police spokesperson said the encounter at Rangreth broke out during a surprise naka checking following inputs about the possible movement of terrorists in the area. “During checking at one such naka manned by a small team of police, two terrorist fired indiscriminately on the police party. A brief encounter erupted as the forces retaliated and the two terrorists were neutralized on spot,” the spokesperson who did not wish to be named said.Two AK rifles were recovered from the site, the spokesperson added. While one of the terrorist was identified as Aadil Ahmad Wani of Daramdoora Shopian, the other was a foreign terrorist, police said. As per information, both were affiliated to LeT, they added. Police said the deceased were involved in several terror cases and also played a key role in recent killings in Srinagar city.“In 2020, terrorist Aadil along with his associates fired at a police party of Police Post Warpora Sopore in which a police personnel Wajahat Asadullah and a civilian were killed. Besides, he was also involved in several grenade attacks on establishments of forces. He was also involved in the grenade attack at Sopore bus stand in which 19 civilians were injured and the grenade attack at Police Post Bus Stand, Sopore, in which two police personnel were injured,” the spokesperson said.On Sunday, a Jaish-e-Mohammad (JeM) terrorist was killed in an encounter in Bargam Pulwama district. The terrorist was identified as Sameer Ahmad Tantray, of Bargam Awantipora.More than 140 terrorists, both local and foreigners, were killed across Valley in encounters this year, according to officials.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/2-let-terrorists-killed-in-srinagar-encounter-rifles-recoveredpolice-101639418169761.html
14-12-2021||India||New grouping of India, UAE, Israel, US to meet next year||The new grouping of India, Israel, the United States and the United Arab Emirates (UAE) is expected to hold the first in-person meeting of foreign ministers in March 2022 to take forward an agenda focused on economic cooperation and infrastructure projects.The foreign ministers of the group, described in some quarters as a West Asian Quad, are expected to hold their meeting on the margins of Expo 2020 in Dubai, people familiar with the matter said on condition of anonymity. The four countries have begun working on specific projects that could be taken up at the meet.The foreign ministers held their first virtual meeting on October 18 and decided to establish an international forum for economic cooperation.They also discussed ways to expand economic and political cooperation in the Middle East and Asia, and to enhance maritime security.External affairs minister S Jaishankar, who was visiting Israel at the time, joined the meeting with his Israeli counterpart Yair Lapid from Jerusalem. Jaishankar had said at the time that the four countries were looking to an “expeditious follow-up” to their first meeting.The four countries have insisted that the new grouping, which does not yet have a formal name, does not have a military element and is not directed against any country. Israeli ambassador Naor Gilon recently said there is no military angle to the ongoing cooperation and the four nations were pursuing a constructive agenda focused on the economy, especially infrastructure projects.The four countries have appointed senior officials to a joint working group that will come up with options for cooperation, the people cited above said.The meeting held in October had built on the momentum created by the Abraham Accords of last year.India has backed the Abraham Accords, through which Israel normalised relations with the UAE, Bahrain, Sudan and Morocco. India, Israel and the UAE have also stepped up trilateral cooperation, especially in trade and investment, since the US brokered the accords.It was inevitable that the new grouping would have a security overhang, said former ambassador Zikrur Rahman, who did several stints in West Asia. “Even when you discuss economic cooperation, shared security concerns are bound to come up,” he said.These concerns include money laundering and criminal activities, Rahman pointed out. “There is bound to be intelligence-sharing and closer coordination on the security front as economic cooperation and security are closely linked, especially in a region like West Asia,” he said.“The Abraham Accords have basically led to the opening up of the Gulf countries such as the UAE and Oman. A few countries, like Kuwait and Saudi Arabia, are proceeding more cautiously. They are not on the fast track as they will move after evaluating the pros and cons.“At the same time, countries that have opened up are looking to Israel to adopt more flexible views on matters such as the Palestinian issue in the hope that this could lead to some sort of rapprochement,” Rahman said.
14-12-2021||India||What is wrong with PM’s photo on vaccine certificate: Kerala HC||The Kerala high court on Monday questioned the credibility of a petition that challenged the use of Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s image on Covid-19 vaccine certificates.Hearing the petition, justice P V Kunhikrishnan asked the petitioner, who works at the Jawaharlal Nehru Institute of Leadership, how the use of PM Modi’s photo on vaccine certificates differs from naming a university after former PM Nehru.“He (Modi) is our Prime Minister, not the PM of any other country. He came to power through a mandate. Merely because you have political differences, you cannot challenge this. Why are of ashamed of our PM? [If] 100 crore people do not have any issue with this, why do you? You are wasting judicial time,” the judge observed.The petitioner, Peter Myalparambhil, moved court in October arguing that using the Prime Minister’s image on Covid-19 vaccine certificates “has no substance, utility or relevance”.The counsel for the petitioner, Ajit M Joy, argued that the vaccine certificate was the petitioner’s private space and he has certain rights over it.He said that since the petitioner paid for the vaccine, the state can’t take credit for it. He also argued that it was a violation of the petitioner’s fundamental rights. The counsel pleaded that if the government insisted on using Modi’s photo on vaccine certificates, then there should also be an option to issue certificates without the PM’s image.The counsel argued that vaccination certificates in several other countries don’t have images of the head of the government. “They may not to be proud of their PM, but we are. He (Modi) became the PM because of the mandate of the people. We may have different political opinions, but still he is our PM,” the judge replied.The counsel for the Union government defended the use of the PM’s photo, saying Modi’s image along with his words on vaccine certificates will help create awareness about the inoculation drive against the coronavirus disease.Incidentally, when a question came up in the Upper House in August, Union minister of state for health and family welfare, Bharati Pawar, said that the PM’s image on vaccine certificates was ideal for promoting awareness of the vaccination drive.After hearing out both sides, the court said it needed time to go through the details and will issue an order at a later date.During a previous hearing on November 23 by a different bench, the court discouraged the petitioner, saying that his plea had larger implications and asked him how would it seem if someone came with a plea to remove Mahatma Gandhi’s image from currency notes.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/why-are-you-ashamed-court-to-petitioner-on-pm-s-image-on-vaccine-certificates-101639393688162.html
