15-12-2021||India||Government looks to name new Chief of Defence Staff with eye on reforms||The government is working fast on appointing a new chief of defence staff (CDS) after the untimely demise of General Bipin Rawat in a Mi-17V5 chopper crash last week to ensure that ongoing military reforms are not slowed down, people familiar with matter said on Wednesday. Defence minister Rajnath Singh on Tuesday said that jointness would remain the military’s priority. The minister said integration of the armed forces to enhance their effectiveness and reshape the conduct of future operations would progress seamlessly. Leadership vacuum is never good, said one of the people cited above. Rawat, who was killed in the crash along with 13 others, was spearheading the theaterisation drive to best utilise the military’s resources for future wars. Singh’s comments indicated that the current vacuum created by Rawat’s passing will not hit India’s theaterisation plans. Such appointments should never be left vacant as ambiguity is the biggest enemy of the governing mechanism in any set up, said military affairs expert Lieutenant General DB Shekatkar (retd), who headed a committee that presented its report on enhancing the military’s combat potential to the government in 2016. “I was not only hoping but reasonably confident that the government would immediately appoint an officiating CDS to steer the ongoing reforms and look into emerging security challenges,” he said. According to a key recommendation made by the 11-member Shekatkar panel, the government should choose the CDS from among the three service chiefs. The defence minister said the process of “integration and modernisation of tri-services” was initiated with the creation of the post of CDS and the department of military affairs (DMA), and it will be carried forward to achieve the goals as early as possible. Rawat took over as CDS on December 31, 2019, after serving as army chief for a full three-year term. As CDS, he wore multiple hats --- he was the permanent chairman of the chiefs of staff committee (COSC), headed DMA, and was the single-point military adviser to the defence minister. All eyes are now on who will be appointed as Rawat’s successor at a time when the theaterisation plan is at a critical juncture and needs a man with matching vision to carry it forward. Army chief General Manoj Mukund Naravane became the senior-most military officer in the country after Rawat’s demise. Indian Air Force chief Air Chief Marshal Vivek Ram Chaudhari and navy chief Admiral R Hari Kumar are both around two years junior to him. There is a strong possibility of Naravane being named as the new CDS if the government follows the seniority principle, as previously reported. Army vice chief Lieutenant General CP Mohanty and Northern Army commander Lieutenant General YK Joshi, who are both course mates, are the senior-most officers in the army after Naravane. Naravane is due for retirement next April but that may not happen in the changed circumstances. Many in the security establishment believe that the first two or three CDS appointments should be from the army as the security challenges the country faces are along the borders with China and Pakistan. However, making top appointments is the government’s prerogative. The possibility of deep selection cannot be ruled out as was done when Rawat was appointed army chief almost five years back. He superseded two top generals — Lieutenant Generals Praveen Bakshi and PM Hariz. The Indian Air Force has already begun a probe into the CDS chopper crash, and plans to complete it swiftly. Air Marshal Manavendra Singh, who is the Air Officer Commanding-in-Chief of the IAF’s Bengaluru-based Training Command, is heading the tri-service probe. He has defied death multiple times in his 39-year military career, including once during one of the gravest emergencies in IAF history involving a Russian-origin Mi-17V5 helicopter. At this point, it is not clear what went wrong with the helicopter in the final moments of the crash though the weather in the area where it went down did not have good visibility. Search crews last week recovered the helicopter’s black box that could give vital clues about what went wrong.
15-12-2021||India||Goa minister Milind Naik resigns hours after Cong names him in ‘sex scandal’||PANAJI: Goa minister for urban development Milind Naik resigned from Pramod Sawant’s cabinet on Wednesday, hours after the Congress accused the minister of sexually exploiting a young woman from Bihar.“Shri Milind Naik has tendered his resignation as a minister in Government of Goa, to ensure a free and fair probe, which has been accepted and sent to the Hon’ble Governor,” Goa chief minister Pramod Sawant’s office said in a statement late on Wednesday.The announcement came hours after Goa Congress chief Girish Chodankar alleged Milind Naik was involved in a sex scandal that he had first spoken about last month. Chodankar said he was putting out the minister’s name because the ruling Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) government hadn’t acted against him despite being given details of the sexual misconduct.“The minister involved in the sex scandal, Milind Naik, should be sacked and action should be initiated against him. And ministers like Milind Naik who sexually assault women should be not be protected or the people of Goa will not forgive me,” Chodankar told a press conference in Panaji on Wednesday.Chodankar also released printouts of what he said were private messages between the woman and the minister to back up his allegation.Milind Naik did not respond to multiple requests by HT for his version. Local media reports in Goa, however, quoted Naik rubbishing the Congress allegation, insisting that these were only designed to defame him. “I have nothing to do with this matter,” he said after Chodankar first spoke about the allegations last month but hadn’t identified the minister, saying the opposition wanted to wait for 15 days for chief minister Pramod Sawant to act against the minister concerned. The Congress leader claimed that the minister was heard on tape sexually exploiting a woman, who he said, among other things, was forcing her to have an abortion.The Congress said an official complaint has also been filed with the police with the women’s police station against the minister. In the interim period, Chodankar said he also received a legal notice by a law firm claiming to represent the unnamed victim, who the notice said, was from Bihar and warned him against releasing any of the allegedly damning material.Chodankar said he also hoped Bihar chief minister Nitish Kumar takes necessary steps “to safeguard the interests of a daughter of Bihar, against whom a minister in Goa is committing atrocities”.“Give the required confidence to the woman who is claiming to be from Bihar as per the legal notice I have received and the police complaint that is filed. You are speaking about empowering women in Bihar. Will you stand with your daughter or with the minister in Goa. The people of Bihar and India are watching you,” Chodankar said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/goa-minister-milind-naik-resigns-hours-after-cong-names-him-in-sex-scandal-101639590578087.html
15-12-2021||India||Uncanny parallel between deaths of Group Captain Varun Singh, Siachen survivor||An uncanny parallel between the passing away of Group Captain Varun Singh and Lance Naik Hanamanthappa Koppad, who was killed along with nine others on the Siachen glacier five years ago, emerged on Wednesday. Their brave fight against death lasted about a week as the country prayed for a miracle on both occasions. Both were sole survivors. Both were in their 30s. And both their families were hoping against hope that they would defeat death. Both will be remembered. Koppad survived six days buried under an avalanche in Siachen in February 2016 before he died at the Army Hospital (Research and Referral) in Delhi. Singh passed away on Wednesday at the Air Force Command Hospital in Bengaluru after a week-long brave fight against death. Koppad was among 10 soldiers who were swept away by an ice wall on February 3, 2016, while guarding the Sonam post located at 20,500 feet. The 33-year-old was from 19 Madras. Prime Minister Narendra Modi led the nation in paying homage to both Koppad and Singh. “He leaves us sad and devastated. RIP Lance Naik Hanumanthappa. The soldier in you remains immortal. Proud that martyrs like you served India,” Modi then said in a tweet. Group Captain Singh was the only man to have survived the December 8 Mi-17V5 chopper crash that killed 13 people including chief of defence staff (CDS) General Bipin Rawat. He was 39. “Group Captain Varun Singh served the nation with pride, valour and utmost professionalism. I am extremely anguished by his passing away. His rich service to the nation will never be forgotten. Condolences to his family and friends. Om Shanti,” the PM wrote on Twitter on Wednesday. The chopper crash that sent shock waves through the Indian military establishment, has been dubbed a devastating setback for the ongoing military reforms and raised questions about succession in the armed forces.
15-12-2021||India||NEET-PG counselling: Resident doctors' body warns of withdrawing from all services from Dec 17||The Federation of Resident Doctors’ Association (FORDA) on Wednesday wrote to Union health minister Mansukh Mandaviya to inform him of its decision to “withdraw from all services, including emergency," by resident doctors in healthcare institutions from December 17. The association said the move would be taken over the government’s failure to expedite the NEET-PG 2021 counselling and admission process.It said the authorities have not paid heed to the plight of overburdened and exhausted resident doctors and the former do not seem to be concerned about the shortage in healthcare workforce as revealed through the non-admission of a fresh batch of resident doctors. Letter of Intimation to Hon’ble @mansukhmandviya Sir regarding “Withdrawal from all Services” by #ResidentDoctors in healthcare institutions, 17/12/2021 onwards #ExpediteNEETPGCounselling2021 @PMOIndia @Drvirendrakum13 @MoHFW_INDIA @MSJEGOI @ANI @ndtv @MirrorNow @LiveLawIndia pic.twitter.com/S0aNj2ddJO“With the threat of a third wave of the Covid-19 pandemic looming large, the best the authorities could have done was to expedite the counselling and admission process,” it further said.Also read | Emergency services hit as resident doctors’ strike enters day 10On December 9, the association, spearheading a nationwide protest since November 27 over the delay in NEET-PG 2021 counselling, had suspended the stir for a week. "In case the issue is not addressed by December 16, 2021, we will be forced to call for a complete shutdown of all services except Covid areas in healthcare institutions," it had then said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/resident-doctors-body-warns-of-withdrawing-all-services-from-december-17-101639589062224.html
15-12-2021||India||How did conman Sukesh Chandrashekhar befriend actor Jacqueline Fernandez? Using Jayalalithaa, home ministry's name||Actor Jacqueline Fernandez has been questioned by the Enforcement Directorate in connection with the ₹200 crore money laundering case, the mastermind of which is conman Sukesh Chandrashekar. In its chargesheet, the agency mentioned Jacqueline's name as the actor was believed to have received expensive gifts from the conman. An intimate photo of the actor with Sukesh went viral a few months ago, confirming that the actor indeed was close to Sukesh.Now that Jacqueline has been questioned by the ED several times, the actor reportedly told the agency that she too was conned by Sukesh as the conman made a "spoofed" call replicating the office number of Union home minister Amit Shah, a PTI report said. Chandrashekhar introduced him as "Shekhaar Ratne Vela", the actor has told the agency.Based on what Jacqueline told the agency, ED said that Sukesh was trying to get in touch with Jacqueline over many weeks in December 2020 and January 2021 but the actor said she gets many such calls and did not report. According to reports, her makeup artist got a call that said the caller was from a government office and that Jacqueline must get in touch with some Shekhar. When the actor complied, Sukesh introduced himself as the owner of Sun TV. He also said he was from the political family of Jayalalithaa. Sukesh apparently told Jacqueline that Sun TV has many projects and Jacqueline should do films in the south industries.During the course of their acquaintance, Jacqueline received gifts like three designer bags from Gucci and Chanel, two Gucci gym wear outfits, a pair of Louis Vuitton shoes, two pairs of diamond earrings and a bracelet of multi-coloured stones and two Hermes bracelets. The actor said she returned a Mini Cooper car that she received as a gift.(With agency inputs)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/how-conman-sukesh-chandrashekhar-befriended-actor-jacqueline-fernandez-using-jayalalitha-home-ministry-s-name-101639587316528.html
15-12-2021||India||IMF chief economist Gita Gopinath meets PM Modi||Gita Gopinath, the chief economist of the International Monetary Fund (IMF), met Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Wednesday. The PM’s Office shared images of the duo's interaction on Twitter."Chief Economist of the IMF, @GitaGopinath called on PM @narendramodi," the PMO tweeted along with the images.Chief Economist of the IMF, @GitaGopinath called on PM @narendramodi. pic.twitter.com/2B30CMvjjaThe Indian-American Gopinath was recently promoted as the IMF’s first deputy managing director in recognition of her exceptional intellectual leadership in helping the global economy and the global funding body to navigate the "twists and turns" of the "worst economic crisis of our lives".Gopinath would be replacing Geoffrey Okamoto who plans to leave the IMF early next year.Gopinath, who was scheduled to return to her academic position at Harvard University in January 2022, has decided to stay.Gopinath, 49, is the first woman to serve as chief economist of the Washington-based global lender for three years.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/imf-chief-economist-gita-gopinath-meets-pm-modi-101639587403378.html
15-12-2021||India||SC grants four-week pre-arrest protection to Raj Kundra in pornography case||Businessman and Bollywood actor Shilpa Shetty's husband Raj Kundra was on Wednesday granted a four-week pre-arrest protection from the Supreme Court in connection with a pornography case.A bench headed by Justice Vineet Saran granted the anticipatory bail plea to Kundra, and also issued a notice to the Maharashtra government and Mumbai Crime Branch.The protection grant by the apex court came after Kundra's plea for pre-arrest protection was dismissed by the Bombay high court on November 25. The cyber cell of Mumbai Police filed a first information report (FIR) against the businessman in 2020 in which he was booked for allegedly distribution sexually explicit videos.Before the high court, Kundra's anticipatory bail plea for rejected by the sessions court as well. The FIR lodged by the Mumbai Police has named a total of six people as accused, including Poonam Pandey and Sherlyn Chopra.This case is one of many levelled against Kundra for allegedly producing and streaming pornographic content. Notably, he was arrested in July along with 10 others, including his Information Technology (IT) head Ryan Thorpe, for their alleged role in the production of adult content through a subscription-based app called ‘Hotshots’. In September, Kundra and Thorpe were granted bail on a surety of ₹50,000.Kundra has repeatedly dismissed all claims against him, and at the time of his bail in September, he told the Metropolitan Magistrate Court that the videos streamed on Hotshot were shot with the consent of the actors and claimed he owned the app only for 10 months.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/sc-grants-four-week-pre-arrest-protection-to-raj-kundra-in-pornography-case-101639581564102.html
15-12-2021||India||Tamil Nadu, Telangana, Bengal report 1st cases of Omicron, tally above 60||Tamil Nadu, Telangana and West Bengal reported the first cases of Omicron variant of SARS-CoV-2 virus on Wednesday taking the total number of Omicron cases in the country over 60. Maharashtra, which has the highest number of Omicron cases, reported four new cases on Wednesday. Of the four patients, one is a woman and three are men - all between the age group of 16 years and 67 years.West Bengal on Wednesday reported the first Omicron case after a seven-year-old boy, resident of Murshidabad district, tested positive for the new coronavirus variant. The boy, the official said, recently returned to Bengal from Abu Dhabi via Hyderabad. He left for a relative's place in Malda from Kolkata airport.Tamil Nadu also reported the first case of Omicron on Wednesday evening, a day after a traveller from Nigerian was suspected to have the variant.Telangana reported the first two cases of Omicron after a Kenyan national and a Somali national who landed in Hyderabad on December 12 tested positive for the new variant.Kerala too reported four new cases of this new variant.Here is the statewise tally of Omicron cases on Wednesday eveningMaharashtra: 32Rajasthan: 17Gujarat: 4Karnataka: 3Kerala: 5Andhra Pradesh: 1Delhi: 6Chandigarh: 1West Bengal: 1Telangana: 2Tamil Nadu: 1To detect the new variant of Coronavirus, samples are being sent for genome-sequencing and hence the reports of the new cases are coming as and when the reports of the genome sequencing are out, without suggesting anything concrete regarding the spread of the variant.Omicron, believed to be more transmissible than Delta, was first detected in South Africa on November 24. On November 26, the World Health Organization identified Omicron as a variant of concern. The first Omicron case in India was detected on December 2 in Karnataka.The emergence of this new variant put the brakes on India's plan to resume regular international passenger flights. The Centre has now made compulsory pre-booking of RT-PCR tests starting from December 20 for passengers coming from "at-risk" countries to six major Indian airports, including Delhi, Mumbai Kolkata, Chennai, Bengaluru and Hyderabad.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/tamil-nadu-telangana-bengal-report-1st-cases-of-omicron-tally-above-60-101639584454183.html
15-12-2021||India||DRDO covers bright lights on coastal watch to avoid distracting Olive Ridleys||The Defence Research Development Organisation (DRDO) has covered its mast lights at its integrated test range site on Abdul Kalam Island to avoid distracting the Olive Ridley marine turtles that come to nest on Gahirmatha beach in Odisha’s Kendrapara district.Gahirmatha forest range officer Debasish Bhoi said a large number of Olive Ridley turtles have already congregated near Nasi-1 and 2 islands within the Gahirmatha marine sanctuary. The forest department therefore had asked the DRDO to switch off the lights that could disorient the turtles. “The high-powered illuminated lights installed at the test range centre are a distracting factor for turtles that instead of heading towards the nesting ground move towards the test range centre,” Bhoi said.The high-powered lights at the Integrated Test Range Centre have been installed for coastal security watch and vigil programmes. The DRDO has covered the lights to reduce the intensity.The endangered turtles travel all the way from the Pacific Ocean and visit the Odisha coast in November after travelling for thousands of kilometres in the seawater. They mate in December and January before the mass nesting, which takes place in the last week of February to the second week of March. The turtles also lay their eggs at the mouth of the Rushikulya river in Ganjam district and Devi river in Puri district. An Olive Ridley female turtle usually lays about 120-150 eggs and the hatchlings emerge in a span of 45-60 days. However, out of every 1,000 hatchlings that enter the sea, only one manages to reach adulthood.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/drdo-covers-bright-lights-on-coastal-watch-to-avoid-distracting-olive-ridleys-101639584576221.html
15-12-2021||India||RBI lowers cash limit for Indian and OCI card-holder Kartarpur gurdwara pilgrims||The Reserve Bank of India (RBI) on Wednesday said Indians and those with Overseas Citizen of India (OCI) cards will be allowed to carry up to ₹11,000 in Indian currencies or US dollars while going on a pilgrimage to Gurdwara Darbar Sahib in Kartarpur, Pakistan. This is lower than the usual limit of ₹25,000.In a statement, the RBI said the decision was taken in consultation with the government. The RBI said it "has decided that Indian passport holders as well as persons of Indian origin carrying the Overseas Citizen of India Card along with their passports travelling to Gurdwara Darbar Sahib, Kartarpur, Narowal, Pakistan through the Sri Kartarpur Sahib Corridor, shall be allowed to carry outside and bring into India at the time of his/her return, only Indian currency notes and/or foreign currency in USD, the total value of which may not exceed ₹11,000".The country’s central bank issued the statement titled 'Lower currency limit for pilgrims visiting Gurudwara Darbar Sahib in Kartarpur'.According to the Foreign Exchange Management (Export and Import of Currency) Regulations, 2015, any Indian resident may carry outside currency notes of up to ₹25,000, other than to Nepal and Bhutan. The same limit applies for bringing in the currency.The Kartarpur corridor links Gurdwara Darbar Sahib in Pakistan, the final resting place of Sikhism founder Guru Nanak Dev, with the Dera Baba Nanak shrine in Gurdaspur district in India's Punjab state.The 4-km corridor provides visa-free access to Indian Sikh pilgrims to visit the Darbar Sahib.Pilgrimage to the Kartarpur Sahib gurdwara was suspended in March last year because of the Covid-19 outbreak. The corridor was reopened last month.(With inputs from agencies)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/rbi-lowers-cash-limit-for-indian-and-oci-card-holder-kartarpur-pilgrims-101639579237818.html
15-12-2021||India||UNESCO recognises Kolkata’s Durga Puja as Intangible Cultural Heritage||The UNESCO on Wednesday added Durga Puja in Kolkata to its 2021 list of Intangible Cultural Heritage, giving international recognition to the biggest religious festival of the 331-year-old city and the state of West Bengal. As many as 36,946 community Durga Pujas are organised in Bengal. Of these, around 2,500 are held in Kolkata. In recent years, several organisations had urged UNESCO to recognise the festival. Traditional yoga and the Kumbh Mela got the recognition in 2016 and 2017 respectively. On Wednesday, the Durga Puja was the only Indian festival to make it to the list of 20 events and traditional activities. “Durga Puja is an annual festival celebrated in September or October, most notably in Kolkata, in West Bengal of India, but also in other parts of India and amongst the Bengali diaspora,” the UNESCO wrote on its website on Wednesday, mentioning the cultural activities, involvement of artisans and participation of the masses. “Durga Puja is seen as the best instance of the public performance of religion and art, and as a thriving ground for collaborative artists and designers. The festival is characterized by large-scale installations and pavilions in urban areas, as well as by traditional Bengali drumming and veneration of the Goddess. During the event, the divides of class, religion and ethnicities collapse as crowds of spectators walk around to admire the installations,” the UNESCO said. Defining Intangible Cultural Heritage, the UNESCO has said: “The term ‘cultural heritage’ has changed content considerably in recent decades, partially owing to the instruments developed by UNESCO. Cultural heritage does not end at monuments and collections of objects. It also includes traditions or living expressions inherited from our ancestors and passed on to our descendants, such as performing arts, oral traditions, social practices, rituals, festive events, knowledge and practices concerning nature and the universe.” Founded by the East India Company in 1690, Kolkata was the capital of British India from 1772 to 1911, when the capital was shifted to Delhi. The UNESCO’s announcement was welcomed by Bengal’s ruling Trinamool Congress (TMC) as chief minister Mamata Banerjee is widely recognized as the biggest patron of the festival. Banerjee has drawn criticism from opposition parties for granting government funds for community puja organising clubs and holding a carnival at Kolkata’s Red Road before immersion of the idols. The carnival drew a huge number of foreign tourists in recent years. It has, however, not been held for two years in its usual form because of the Covid-19 pandemic. The budget of many community puja organisers in Kolkata and the districts runs into several lakhs of rupees. The money is raised through subscription from members of the public and corporate sponsorship. According to a study the British Council of India conducted last year, the economic value of the artistic creations and cultural activities during Durga Puja in West Bengal is more than ₹32,300 crore. “Durga Puja occupies the heart of every Bengali. Mamata Banerjee has made the best efforts to promote the festival as a national event. She has given a grant of ₹50,000 to each of the clubs and also held the carnival. Her efforts and that of the puja organisers have succeeded,” said senior TMC Lok Sabha member Saugata Roy. Even as it rose to become Bengal’s biggest opposition party since 2019, when it won 18 of Bengal’s 42 Lok Sabha seats, the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP), too, joined the festivities in an apparent bid to connect with the masses. October 22, 2020 became a significant day in Bengal politics when Prime Minister Narendra Modi virtually joined the commencement of the first Durga Puja the Bengal BJP unit organised at the Salt Lake campus of the Eastern Zonal Cultural Centre (EZCC) in Salt Lake, a township located on the eastern outskirts of Kolkata. No other Prime Minister had earlier inaugurated a Durga Puja in Bengal. As PM Modi invoked the goddess in Bengali and talked of female empowerment, laws to curb crime and Central schemes such as Beti Bachao, Beti Padhao (save and educate the girl child), his speech was streamed by the party to its supporters in all 294 assembly constituencies. EZCC, which is the under the Union ministry of culture, wore a festive look. Since the BJP could win only 77 assembly seats in the March-April polls against a target of 200, the enthusiasm was visibly less at EZCC this year. Bengal BJP vice-president Jay Prakash Majumdar said the UNESCO’s recognition was a gift for millions of Bengalis. “This is recognition for a culture that has been inculcated and built over several centuries. The UNESCO has recognized the superlative emotion behind the celebrations,” said Majumdar. Many eminent citizens of Kolkata welcomed the news. “This is a joyous moment for all Bengalis. I, however, feel that the recognition should have come much earlier,” noted writer Shirshendu Mukhopadhyay told the media. 
15-12-2021||India||Ayush ministry has recommendations on 'holistic health' amid third Covid wave fears||The ministry of Ayush on Wednesday released a comprehensive document on ‘holistic health’ amid fears of a third wave of the Covid-19 pandemic in wake of the emergence of the Omicron variant of Coronavirus.In a statement, the ministry said the recommendations are for the public to ensure 'holistic health and well-being' during the pandemic."COVID-19 is an evolving disease, characterised by the development of sequelae to the primary disease known as post-Covid syndrome and long COVID-19. It has been observed that patients recovering from SARS-CoV-2 suffer from persistent and often, debilitating symptoms extending several months past their initial diagnosis," a ministry official said.Also read | Oppn wants discussions on Omicron & inflation, then runs away from Parl: Pralhad JoshiThe document emphasised on self-care of individuals by addressing various dimensions of life and health and the recommendations have been formulated stressing the need for a healthy lifestyle with Ayush-preventive measures.Here's a list of recommendations:> The ministry recommended methods for promoting systemic immunity, ways to promote local mucosal immunity along with other preventive courses such as fumigation (Dhupana).> Pictographic presentation of Ayush practices and local/mucosal immune responses, relationship between good and weak digestive fire (agni), nutrition, immunity, and infection, and categorical administration of diet in respect of strength of appetite (agni) have also been incorporated in these recommendations for maximum understanding and outreach to general public, the statement said.> Recommendations related to mental health and measures to increase mental strength (Satvabala) are also part of the document which were not in the previous guidelines or advisories issued by the Ministry of Ayush.> Recipes of easily digestible food (laghu ahara) such as moong dal (green gram) khichdi and mudga yusha (moong dal soup) have been carefully chosen and included in the recommendations.> The document also illustrates Yoga asanas that one can practice during Covid-19 along with its photographs for easy understanding, the statement said.It added the recommendations are a supplement to the Covid-19 appropriate behaviour and precautionary measures and should not be taken as a substitute.Use of masks, hand sanitisation, physical and social distancing, vaccination, healthy nutritious diet, improving immunity, and all other general healthcare measures are advised as per the guidelines issued by health authorities from time to time.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/ayush-ministry-has-recommendations-on-holistic-health-amid-third-covid-wave-fears-101639577424922.html
15-12-2021||India||News updates from HT: Court refuses to quash CBI summons in Anil Deshmukh case and all the latest news||Here are today’s top news, analysis and opinion. Know all about the latest news and other news updates from Hindustan Times.Bombay HC refuses to quash CBI summons in Anil Deshmukh caseThe Bombay high court on Wednesday dismissed the Maharashtra government’s petition challenging the Central Bureau of Investigation’s (CBI) summons to top state officials in the corruption case involving former state home minister Anil Deshmukh and the plea to entrust the probe instead to a special investigation team (SIT) headed by a retired HC judge. Read more.Delhi court grants interim relief to BJP's Sambit Patra in doctored clip caseBharatiya Janata Party (BJP) leader Sambit Patra was on Wednesday granted interim relief in a case related to a doctored video of Delhi chief minister Arvind Kejriwal supporting the three farm laws that were recently repealed in Parliament. Read more.HC rejects Rashmi Shukla’s petition for quashing of FIR for data leakThe Bombay high court (HC) on Wednesday rejected a petition filed by IPS officer Rashmi Shukla for quashing of the FIR registered by the cyber cell of Mumbai police in connection with leakage of her report on alleged corruption in transfers and postings of police officers in Maharashtra. Read more.Five key takeaways from Virat Kohli's first blockbuster press conference since getting sacked as India's ODI captainIndia Test captain Virat Kohli addressed the elephant in the room on Wednesday. Read more.Ranbir Kapoor gets asked when he will marry Alia Bhatt ‘or someone else’. Watch his reply, her reactionRanbir Kapoor and Alia Bhatt answered fan questions at an event in Delhi to launch the motion poster of Ayan Mukerji’s Brahmastra, which marks their first film together. Read more.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/news-updates-from-ht-court-refuses-to-quash-cbi-summons-in-anil-deshmukh-case-101639579853453.html
15-12-2021||India||Cabinet clears bill on electoral reforms, allowing voluntary Aadhaar-Voter ID linking||The Union Cabinet on Wednesday is learnt to have cleared a bill on electoral reforms, news agency PTI reported. The reforms will allow the Election Commission to seed the Aadhaar number with electoral rolls on a voluntary basis, the report said.According to the bill cleared by the Cabinet, the electoral law will be made “gender-neutral” for service voters. Another provision of the bill will allow new voters to enrol on four different dates every year. As of now, those turning 18 on or before January 1 of every year are only allowed to register as voters.An army man’s wife is entitled to be enrolled as a service voter, but a woman army officer’s husband is not, according to the existing provisions. The ECI had asked the law ministry to replace the term ‘wife’ with ‘spouse’ in the provision in the Representation of the People Act related to service voters.In August 2019, the Election Commission proposed amendments including linking of the ID card with Aadhaar number which will curb multiple enrollments of the same individual at different places. This has been a long-pending proposal of the Election Commission. In 2015, when the EC launched the National Electoral Law Purification and Authentication Programme to link the Aadhaar number with the Voter ID number, the programme was stalled after the Supreme Court ordered that the use of Aadhaar would be optional for availing of welfare schemes.Big push to design, make semiconductor chips in India gets Cabinet nodAccording to reports, the law ministry started working on the proposal in 2020 when Ravi Shankar Prasad was the minister. In August this year, minister Kiren Rijiju informed Parliament that the government was considering the EC's proposal. "After consulting various stakeholders, the Commission submitted its 244th and 255th Reports encompassing various aspects of electoral reforms which, inter alia, include disqualification from contesting election on framing of charges, regulation of election finance and opinion polls, ban on paid news etc," the minister said in a written reply.As PTI reported, another proposal in the reforms will allow the Election Commission to take over any premise for the conduct of elections overruling objections to taking over schools as polling booths.The bill on these reforms cleared on Wednesday is likely to be introduced in the ongoing Winter Session, the agency reported.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/cabinet-clears-bill-on-electoral-reforms-allowing-voluntary-aadhaar-voter-id-linking-101639580411371.html
15-12-2021||India||Kolkata's Durga Puja gets UNESCO nod, PM Modi says ‘an experience everyone must have’||Kolkata's Durga Puja festival has become the latest event to be inscribed in the ‘Representative List of the Intangible Cultural Heritage of Humanity’ by the United Nations Educational, Scientific and Cultural Organisation (UNESCO). With this, as many as 14 events that represent India's tradition and culture have been inducted in the list.Taking to Twitter on Wednesday, UNESCO hailed the moment and congratulated India. “Durga Puja in Kolkata has just been inscribed on the Intangible Heritage list. Congratulations India,” the tweet read.
15-12-2021||India||Stared death in the face last year, only survivor of Mi-17 crash passes away||Group Captain Varun Singh, the only man to have survived the December 8 Mi-17V5 chopper crash that killed 13 people including chief of defence staff (CDS) General Bipin Rawat, passed away on Wednesday morning after putting up a brave, week-long fight against death. The 39-year-old died of burn injuries at the Air Force Command Hospital in Bengaluru, and is survived by his wife, Geetanjali Singh, and two children aged 11 and eight. The chances of his survival were grim from the beginning --- he suffered 95% burns --- but the entire country was hoping and praying for a miraculous recovery. He came from a military background. “IAF is deeply saddened to inform the passing away of braveheart Group Captain Varun Singh, who succumbed this morning to the injuries sustained in the helicopter accident. IAF offers sincere condolences and stands firmly with the bereaved family,” the Indian Air Force said in a statement. A top-notch fighter pilot, Varun was flying in the ill-fated Russian-origin helicopter as a passenger. He had encountered a rare, life-threatening emergency aboard his fighter jet in October 2020, but his lightning reflexes and flying skills averted a crash. He was commissioned in IAF as a fighter pilot in 2004. Tributes poured in for the group captain from Prime Minister Narendra Modi, defence minister Rajnath Singh, Congress leader Rahul Gandhi and several others. “Group Captain Varun Singh served the nation with pride, valour and utmost professionalism. I am extremely anguished by his passing away. His rich service to the nation will never be forgotten. Condolences to his family and friends. Om Shanti,” the PM said. The defence minister, who was in touch with Varun’s family, said the untimely demise had pained him beyond words. “He was a true fighter who fought till his last breath. My thoughts and deepest condolences are with his family and friends. We stand firmly with the family, in this hour of grief,” he added. Rawat was on a visit to the Defence Services Staff College (DSSC) at Wellington to deliver a talk when the Mi-17V5 crashed near Coonoor. It took off from the Sulur air base at 11.48 am, and was scheduled to land in Wellington at 12.15 pm. But the air traffic control at Sulur lost contact with the helicopter at 12.08 pm when it was just seven minutes from its destination. Varun was directing staff (air) at DSSC and the CDS’s liaison officer for the visit. He was a test pilot and had flown several fighter aircraft in the IAF’s combat fleet. Just four months ago, on August 15, Varun was awarded Shaurya Chakra, India’s third-highest peacetime gallantry medal, for exceptional courage and remarkable presence of mind in handling a rare mid-air emergency involving the locally-built Tejas light combat aircraft (LCA). The standard operating procedure required him to eject and abandon the aircraft. “However, I took a few calculated risks and managed to land without any damage to either the aircraft or civilians,” he later said. The award was a deserved recognition of his heroism in the cockpit of what then seemed to be a doomed fighter aircraft. If it were not for Varun’s brave efforts and his decision not to bail out, the aircraft would have become the first LCA to crash. On October 12, 2020, Varun, then a wing commander, was on an LCA test sortie when sudden loss of cockpit pressurisation at high altitude triggered some nerve-racking moments. It was a life-or-death situation but Varun prevailed and went on to land the plane. “There was rapid loss of altitude, with the aircraft pitching up and down viciously. Despite being in extreme physical and mental stress in a life-threatening situation, he maintained exemplary composure and regained control of the aircraft, thereby exhibiting exceptional flying skills,” the Shaurya Chakra citation said. “He displayed extraordinary courage and skill to safely land the fighter aircraft. The pilot went beyond the call of duty and landed the aircraft taking calculated risks. This allowed an accurate analysis of the fault on the indigenously designed fighter and further institution of preventive measures against recurrence,” the citation added. A month after he was awarded Shaurya Chakra, Varun wrote a warm letter to his school principal with a request that his message be shared with the students of Army Public School in Chandimandir. The message was deep. “It is ok to be mediocre…Whatever you work towards, be dedicated, do your best... Never lose hope, never think that you cannot be good at what you want to be,” he wrote. “If I am able to inspire even one child to believe in himself/herself, I would have achieved my objective of writing this letter.” Varun inspired millions of Indians in life and death.
15-12-2021||India||Delhi sees Indian Ocean as region of peace, works to keep seas, airways open||NEW DELHI: India sees the Indian Ocean and the Indo-Pacific as a region of peace and prosperity and will work to keep the seas, space and airways free and open and secure from terrorism and piracy, minister of state for external affairs Rajkumar Ranjan Singh said on Wednesday. The post-pandemic world places a greater premium on trust, technology, transparency, resilience and reliability, and the Indian Ocean Rim Association (IORA) has a critical role to play in this regard, Singh said in his keynote address at the Indian Ocean Dialogue.The dialogue is IORA’s track 1.5 forum for discussions among stakeholders such as experts, government policy-makers, think tanks and civil society groups on strategic issues of interest and concerns facing the region. The theme for this year’s event, which was hosted by India, was “Post-pandemic Indian Ocean: Leveraging digital technologies for health, education, development and trade in IORA member states”. Singh said India’s “Security and Growth for All in the Region” or SAGAR doctrine envisions the Indian Ocean and greater Indo-Pacific as a region of peace and prosperity, based on trust and transparency, respect for international maritime rules, equal access as a right under international law, sensitivity to each other’s interests, peaceful resolution of disputes and enhanced maritime cooperation. “India will always work towards keeping the seas, space and airways free and open; nations secure from terrorism and piracy; ensuring access to and responsible use of global commons, a global cyber-space free from disruption and fair, transparent and balanced trading systems; and enhancing connectivity for inclusive and sustainable national, regional and global economic growth,” he said. Singh noted the Covid-19 pandemic has led to a new urgency to re-imagine international cooperation and accelerated socio-economic changes that the Indian Ocean Region had been witnessing. It has also disrupted supply chains, impacted manufacturing and affected trade, leading to a rethink of the approach to economic policies, he added. India, he said, is trying to foster meaningful multi-stakeholder partnerships, sharing of advanced and frugal technologies, collaboration in vaccine and pharmaceutical production and transparency in health information. “We recognise that a different world awaits us. It is one that puts a greater premium on trust, technology and transparency as well as resilience and reliability,” he said. “IORA...has a critical role to play in this regard. On its part, India remains committed to share her experience and resources in the spirit of solidarity.” Singh also said countries need to speedily normalise travel through recognition of vaccine certificates so that livelihoods are restored. India has worked out solutions in this field with some 100 nations and wants to expand this in the Indian Ocean Region. The Indian Ocean Rim region is crucial for global commerce, energy and geopolitical stability. Half of the world’s container ships and two-thirds of global oil shipments pass through the region, which is home to more than 2.7 billion people. The Indian Ocean Dialogue focused on how IORA states used digital technologies and platforms to overcome Covid-19 disruptions in health, education, development and trade.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/delhi-sees-indian-ocean-as-region-of-peace-works-to-keep-seas-airways-open-101639575923483.html
15-12-2021||India||Kerala high court rejects plea questioning re-appointment of Kannur VC||The Kerala High Court on Wednesday rejected the plea questioning the re-appointment of Kannur University vice-chancellor Dr Gopinath Raveendran much to the satisfaction of the state government. His re-appointment was one of the reasons for a recent tiff between the Kerala government and Governor Arif Mohammad Khan and the latter sent a strongly-worded letter to the CM saying he was forced make certain appointments including that of Kannur VC. Raveendran was re-appointed as the VC on November 23, on the day his first term ended. The plea challenging the re-appointment was moved by university senate member Dr Ramachandran Keezoth and two others. They pleaded that the re-appointment was against the norms of the University Grants Commission and he had also crossed the permissible age of 60 years. They also contended that it was done in lieu of some appointments made by the VC flouting all norms. But Justice Amit Rawal dismissed the plea later observing that all records produced before the court show that norms were in place. Though the petition was filed last month the court refused to entertain the petitioner’s bid to file a fresh affidavit in view of the raging controversy between the Kerala Government and Governor. Petitioners said they will move the division bench against the single judge verdict. State higher education minister R Bindu welcomed the high court verdict. Her two letters to the Governor were leaked recently in which she asked the Governor to re-appoint Raveendran and do away with the search committee for the new VC. The Opposition has been demanding her resignation saying she pressurised the Governor to re-appoint Raveendran. The Governor had sent a letter to Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan on December 8 in which he said he was really pained over the “dipping standard” of the higher education sector and blamed “brazen political interference” as the reason for this. He also asked the government to take up the chancellor’s post if political interference continued. The chief minister on Sunday asked the Governor not to take any action in a hurry but the latter refused to budge. According to political observers, the real trigger (between the Governor and government) was the reappointment of Raveendran. He was reappointed for a period of four years after the government issued a notification and appointed a selection committee to select the new VC.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/kerala-high-court-rejects-plea-questioning-re-appointment-of-kannur-vc-101639575449074.html
15-12-2021||India||HT This Day: Dec 16, 1950 - Nation mourns Patel’s death||The end came six hours after he had a heart attack which made him unconscious. Oxygen was administered to relieve the difficulty in breathing. Sardar Patel momentarily regained consciousness at about 8 a.m., but thereafter life slowly ebbed away till he breathed his last 90 minutes later. The mortal remains of the great leader were cremated at the Sonapur Burning Ghat (Chowpatty) at 7-40 p.m. near the spot where his brother, Vithalbhai Patel, was cremated 17 years ago. After the funeral pyre was lighted by Sardar Patel’s son, Mr. Dahyabhai Patel, Mr. C. Rajagopalachari, Minister without Portfolio, Government of India, and the President, Dr Rajendra Prasad, made speeches paying tributes to the departed leader. During the ten hours that Sardar Patel’s body remained with them, Bombay’s multitudes demonstrated the high esteem and great veneration in which the city in particular-his second home-and the country in general held Mahatma Gandhi’s right hand man. As the common people mournfully filed past in an endless stream the Sardar’s body as it lay in state, planes were arriving every few minutes from different parts of the country carrying a cross-section of the country’s leadership and condolence messages from far and near poured in. Then the last journey started at 5-20 p.m. along a four-mile route, with Maniben and Dahyabhai sitting on either side of the cortege and with the Sardar’s nearest colleagues immediately following in a jeep. Men of the Defence Services, so dear to him, brought up the rear of the procession. All along the route men and women, cramming the footpaths, balconies and windows, chanted Gandhiji’s favourite prayer hymn “Raghupati-Raghava-Rajaram.” Flowers were showered on the cortege as it moved slowly along the narrow Vithalbhai Patel Road. It was 7-20 p.m. when the procession reached the crematorium. The leaders took turns to carry on their shoulders their great comrade’s body on the last lap of the journey. Twenty minutes later, at a spot adjacent to where his brother Vithalbhai’s ashes were mixed with the good earth, a pyre of sandalwood was going up in flames as the strains of “ Raghupati Raghava-Rajaram “ sung in chorus by Congress Desh Sevikas filled the air. With that was becoming “air, earth and water,” what was Vallabhbhat Patel, the unflinching fighter, the great general, the sagacious administrator, the farsighted statesman and the architect of a united India. PEACEFUL END Sardar Patel was serene throughout the brave fight he put against death. His face looked majestic and peaceful notwithstanding the intense pain he underwent during the last few hours. The end came peacefully. Sardar Patel went to Bombay on Tuesday on medical advice, as it was considered that the milder weather of Bombay as against the severe cold of Delhi, would be beneficial to him. The change appeared to have done him considerable good and on Tuesday he was restful. He was also comfortable during the day on Wednesday, but from about 10 p.m. there was a setback and he was restless. This condition continued intermittently with restful periods on Wednesday night and Thursday. At 3-10 a.m. yesterday he had a heart attack, similar to the one he had in Delhi last year. Doctors were summoned. Dahyabhai Patel, Sardar Patel’s son, his daughter and constant companion. Maniben, his daughter-in-law and grandson and Mr V. Shankar, private secretary, were at his bedside since his condition became grave. Mr B. G. Kher, Mr Morarji Desai and S. K Patil were called to Birla House early yesterday Dr M. D. D. Gilder and Mr Nathubhai D. Patel were in constant attendance on him.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/htthis-day-dec-16-1950-nation-mourns-patel-s-death-101639574844338.html
15-12-2021||India||PM Modi world's 8th most admired man in 2021, ahead of Big B, SRK, claims survey||Prime Minister Narendra Modi has ranked 8th on the list of the world's top 20 most admired men, in a survey carried out by data analytics company YouGov. PM Modi is ahead of Shah Rukh Khan, Amitabh Bachchan and Virat Kohli. The list has been compiled taking feedback from 42,000 people in 38 countries, the survey company said.Apart from PM Modi, the other Indian men who, according to the survey, were the most admired in 2021 include Sachin Tendulkar, Shah Rukh Khan, Amitabh Bachchan and Virat Kohli.World's Most Admired Men 2021 (1-10)1. Barack Obama 🇺🇸2. Bill Gates 🇺🇸3. Xi Jinping 🇨🇳4. Cristiano Ronaldo 🇵🇹5. Jackie Chan 🇨🇳6. Elon Musk 🇿🇦7. Lionel Messi 🇦🇷8. Narendra Modi 🇮🇳9. Vladimir Putin 🇷🇺10. Jack Ma 🇨🇳https://t.co/oBV8X1gh6E pic.twitter.com/IedkTP2d7cThe list of most admired women of 2021 has Priyanka Chopra, Aishwarya Rai Bachchan and Sudha Murty.List of world's 20 most admired men1. Barack Obama2. Bill Gates3. Xi Jinping4. Cristiano Ronaldo5. Jackie Chan6. Elon Musk7. Lionel Messi8. Narendra Modi9. Vladimir Putin10. Jack Ma11. Warren Buffett12. Sachin Tendulkar13. Donald Trump14. Shah Rukh Khan15. Amitabh Bachchan16. Pope Francis17. Imran Khan18. Virat Kohli19. Andy Lau20. Joe BidenThe results have been calculated from the combination of responses to two questions – whether a respondent admires the figure at all and then whether they are the figure the respondent admires the most, the analytics company said. “During the spring this year YouGov gathered open-ended nominations from panellists across 38 countries and territories, asking them simply: “Thinking about people alive in the world today, which [man or woman] do you most admire?” These nominations were then used to compile a list of the 20 men and 20 women who received the most nominations and were nominated in at least four countries. An additional 5-10 popular local figures were added to the lists for individual countries,” the company said explaining its methodology of compiling this list. List of world's 20 most admired women1. Michelle Obama2. Angelina Jolie3. Queen Elizabeth II4. Oprah Winfrey5. Scarlett Johansson6. Emma Watson7. Taylor Swift8. Angela Merkel9. Malala Yousafzai10. Priyanka Chopra11. Kamala Harris12. Hillary Clinton13. Aishwarya Rai Bachchan14. Sudha Murty15. Greta Thunberg16. Melania Trump17. Lisa18. Liu Yifei19. Yang Mi20. Jacinda Ardern||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/pm-modi-world-s-8th-most-admired-man-in-2021-ahead-of-big-b-srk-claims-survey-101639573565551.html
15-12-2021||India||Hizb terrorist killed in Pulwama shot dead 4 cops guarding Pandit families in 2018||SRINAGAR: A Hizbul Mujahideen operative shot dead by security forces in an encounter in south Kashmir’s Pulwama district was involved in the killing of four police personnel deployed for the security of some Kashmiri Pandit families in Shopian’s Zainapora area in December 2018.Feroz Ahmad Dar, a resident of Heff-Shrimal in Shopian, was shot dead by security forces in an encounter that started late on Tuesday night during a joint cordon and search operation was launched by police, Rashtriya Rifles and the Central Reserve Police Force in Pulwama’s Uzrampathri village.“Police and security forces neutralized ‘A+’ categorized terrorist of proscribed terror outfit HM involved in several terror crimes including attack on a minority guard in 2018 at Zainapora Shopian, in which four police personnel were martyred,” a police spokesman said.The spokesperson said Feroz Ahmad Dar was given repeated opportunities to surrender but he continued firing at security forces.Dar, according to police records, was part of groups involved in several terror crime cases including attacks on security forces and civilians.“Pertinently, the killed terrorist was active since 2017 and involved in several terror crime cases including an attack on a minority guard in December 2018 at Zainapora,” the spokesperson said. Four police personnel were killed in the Zainapora attack in the indiscriminate firing by the terrorists after entering the guard post set up by the Kashmir police for the protection of some Kashmiri Pandit families living in the area.Dar was also involved in the killing of Ishrat Muneer Bhat, the 22-year-old who was taped on video seeking mercy from the terrorists before she was shot dead at point-blank range. The video clip of her execution was circulated by the terrorists, their warning to other Kashmiris. Bhat’s body was found in Shopian’s Draggad village, 30km from her house. The terrorists reportedly suspected she may have tipped off the police about Albadar commander-in-chief Zeenat-ul-Islam who was shot dead a few weeks earlier in January 2019.The Jammu and Kashmir police spokesperson said Feroz Ahmad Dar was also involved in the killing of Charnajeet, a labourer from Punjab who was attacked along with others while loading apple boxes in a vehicle in October 2019, months after the centre revoked Jammu and Kashmir’s special status.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/hizb-terrorist-killed-in-pulwama-shot-dead-4-cops-guarding-pandit-families-in-2018-101639573103636.html
15-12-2021||India||3 more test positive for Omicron in Telangana, Bengal; India tally climbs to 52||Three more people tested positive for the Omicron variant of Covid-19 on Wednesday, two from Telangana and one from West Bengal, taking the total tally of Omicron cases in India to 52.Omicron, said to be “highly transmissible” has been reported from eight states --- Maharashtra (20), Kerala (1), Andhra Pradesh (1), Gujarat (4), Rajasthan (13), Karnataka (3), Telangana (2) and West Bengal (1) --- and two union territories --- Delhi (6) and Chandigarh (1). The government has warned against laxity in following Covid-19 related protocols, urging people to not delay vaccination.Telangana director of health G Srinivasa Rao told reporters that two passengers – one a 24-year-old woman from Kenya and another 23-year-old man from Somalia, who landed at the Rajiv Gandhi International Airport in Hyderabad, tested positive for Covid-19 on their arrival on December 12.“Their samples were sent to the laboratory of Centre for Cellular and Molecular Biology for genome sequencing and their results were announced on Tuesday night. Both of them were found to be positive for the Omicron variant,” the health director said.The woman passenger, who was found to be staying at Tolichowki area, was immediately shifted to the Telangana Institute of Medical Sciences (TIMS). “We have also collected the swab samples of all her contacts, including family members and kept them in isolation,” he said.Similarly, the address of the 23-year-old man from Somalia was identified as Mehdipatnam and efforts were made to shift him to the TIMS soon, besides conducting tests for his contacts. “However, both the passengers have very mild symptoms and there is nothing to panic about. They are safe,” Rao said.The health director said a seven-year-old boy who also landed at the Hyderabad airport on an international flight along with his family on the same day and subsequently left for West Bengal, also tested positive for Omicron.“But the family did not enter the city. It took a connecting domestic flight to Kolkata immediately. Before leaving, the boy gave the throat swab samples for testing and it turned out to be positive for the Omicron variant. We informed the West Bengal government about the same,” he said.Sandip Sanyal, chief medical officer of health, Murshidabad, said the child and his parents landed in Kolkata on December 11 and travelled to Farakka in a car. The family lives at Beniagram in Murshidabad’s Farakka area but on Wednesday the boy and his parents were in Kaliachak in the adjoining Malda district where they had gone to visit some relatives, he said. “The boy is in stable condition,” he said. “Health workers are in touch with the family. The area where the family live has been declared a containment zone,” Sanyal added. A senior health department official said in Kolkata that the child will be sent to a hospital soon and his parents and relatives will be kept in isolation following standard protocol. India’s first Omicron cases were reported from Bengaluru on December 2. They were a 66-year-old and a 46-year-old man. Since then, seven other states and two UTs have reported Omicron cases. The Union health ministry has issued an advisory to states to vigorously screen and test all passengers coming via international flights and has extended all Covid-19 restrictions till December 31. The ministry has told states to do proper contact tracking of persons found to be testing positive for Omicron.The Omicron variant, which was first detected in South Africa, has spread to 63 countries with one death being reported in UK where the variant is spreading fast. According to the World Health Organisation, the Omicron will soon surpass Delta and will become the dominant variant across the globe. Authorities worldwide are racing to determine how contagious the variant is and how effective existing vaccines are against it.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/3-more-test-positive-for-omicron-in-telangana-and-bengal-india-tally-climbs-to-52-101639571841431.html
15-12-2021||India||Navjot Sidhu posts a photo with Harbhajan Singh. Hints at 'possibilities with Bhajji'||Setting off speculations ahead of Punjab assembly election 2022, Punjab Congress chief Navjot Singh Sidhu posted a photo with cricketer Harbhajan Singh. "Picture loaded with possibilities.. with bhajji, the shining star," Sidhu captioned the photo which evidently is a recent photo of the duo from a recent meeting as they can be seen in their winterwears. Keeping room for speculations wide open, Sidhu hinted at possibilities that Harbhajan Singh might join the Congress before the Punjab election. Picture loaded with possibilities …. With Bhajji the shining star pic.twitter.com/5TWhPzFpNlSpeculations over Harbhajan's political debut is not new as the cricketer has recently debunked rumours of his joining the BJP.A few days ago, it was rumoured that the BJP was eyeing to rope Harbhajan Singh and Yuvraj Singh, two high-profile cricketers, into the party. Harbhajan took to Twitter and refuted the speculation as 'fake news'. Fake news https://t.co/nxy81qURPXIn the 2019 Lok Sabha election, the BJP was reportedly in talks with Harbhajan to field him from the Amritsar Lok Sabha constituency. At that time, the cricketer had acknowledged the talk and said he was not sure whether it was the right time for him to join politics.A debut in the state poll might be the right opportunity for Harbhajan while roping him in will provide a great impetus to the Congress, the ruling party in Punjab, in the upcoming election as this time the party will have to compete with former chief minister Amarinder Singh as well. Following a long-drawn battle of dissidence in the party, Amarinder Singh resigned from the post of the chief minister and then quit from the Congress. Vowing to fight against Najot Sidhu, he floated his own party Punjab Lok Congress which may tie up with the BJP for the election.Harbhajan Singh is a popular Sikh face from Punjab, who was in the World Cup winning team of 2011. He was conferred the Padma Shri in 2009.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/navjot-sidhu-posts-a-photo-with-harbhajan-singh-hints-at-possibilities-with-bhajji-101639569648279.html
15-12-2021||India||Protests over SIT report on Lakhimpur Kheri violence jolt Lok Sabha||Congress leader Rahul Gandhi moved an adjournment motion in the Lok Sabha on Wednesday over the Lakhimpur Kheri violence, seeking to discuss the special investigation team’s (SIT) report on the October 3 episode. Following continuous protests by Opposition parties, the Lower House was adjourned. Demanding a discussion on the episode in which eight people died at a farmers’ protest site near Tikunia in Uttar Pradesh, Opposition parties shouted slogans against the government, halting proceedings at the Lok Sabha. Gandhi told reporters outside the Parliament, “They are not allowing us to speak, that’s why the House is being disrupted. Their minister is involved in it (Lakhimpur Kheri incident)… So a discussion should be allowed, but they don’t want to discuss it.” Ashish Mishra, son of Union minister of state for home affairs Ajay Mishra Teni, is the prime accused in a vehicle-ramming incident in Lakhimpur Kheri that resulted in five deaths. The run-over sparked a deadly mob-lynching incident, eventually resulting in a total of eight fatalities that day. The SIT’s submissions sparked a political row on Tuesday with the Opposition demanding minister Mishra’s resignation. A court in Uttar Pradesh on Tuesday added stringent sections of the Indian Penal Code and the Arms Act, including attempt to murder, to a First Information Report (FIR) against 13 people accused of mowing down protesting farmers during the Lakhimpur Kheri episode. The decision of the chief judicial magistrate in Lakhimpur Kheri came a day after the SIT looking into the violence told the court that the incident was “well planned” and “deliberate”. Holding placards, Opposition lawmakers shouted slogans demanding a discussion on the matter. DMK MP TR Baalu requested Lok Sabha speaker Om Birla to allow a discussion on the SIT report. But the request was not immediately accepted by the speaker, who asked the MPs to follow the procedure even as Opposition leaders kept shouting slogans during question hour. Some Opposition members entered the well of the House and shouted slogans. Congress lawmaker K Suresh, the party’s chief whip in the Lok Sabha, moved an adjournment motion demanding that Mishra should “step down immediately so that a fair investigation is carried out, justice is served, the culprits are brought to book, and the farmers are delivered justice”. Asking Opposition members to allow the House to function, Birla said, “I’ll let you raise the issue after the question hour… Today, there are important debates lined up on issues such as price rise. Do you not want to discuss it?”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/protests-over-sit-report-on-lakhimpur-kheri-violence-jolt-lok-sabha-101639569681727.html
15-12-2021||India||How did several Bollywood celebs get covid? Here's what BMC says | 10 points||Several Bollywood personalities testing Covid positive in the past few days amid the Omicron scare has sent the Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation in a tizzy. After actor Kareena Kapoor Khan, Amrita Arora tested Covid positive, actor Sohail Khan's wife designer Seema Khan and Sanjay Kapoor's wife Maheep Kapoor also tested positive. Meanwhile, filmmaker Karan Johar who has tested negative rubbished reports that his house gathering was a superspreader. In a social media post, Karan Johar clarified it was an intimate gathering and his house was not a Covid hotspot.Here are 10 things to know:1. On Monday, Kareena, Amrita, Maheep and Seema tested positive. Reports said they attended a party of Karan Johar.2. The civic authorities sealed Kareena Kapoor's resident. BMC complained of non-cooperation on part of the actor as it said that the actor did not give proper information about how many people came in her contact.3. BMC then sanitised the building premises of Kareena Kapoor and Amrita Arora and RT-PCR tests were conducted for the rest of the residents of those buildings.4. Mumbai mayor Kishori Pednekar took on Bollywood personalities being carefree at a time when the pandemic is going on.5. "Kareena has two kids at home. It does not suit well to act carefree when the Covid-19 pandemic has not ended. We have contacted the Grand Hyatt Hotel where a party was held and Kareena attended it. We are tracing others who were present there. "I can understand if some teenagers were present at such a party. It is their age and they like to enjoy, but people should take utmost precautions. Those who are in the limelight, why don't they fear COVID-19?" the mayor said.6. According to reports, 145 close contacts of the four Bollywood personalities have been tested and the results of 37 are awaited. Rest 108 people have tested negative.7. After the results of the 108 came, the buildings of the four celebs have been unsealed. Restrictions are only on the floors where they are staying.8. Actors Alia Bhatt and Malaika Arora were also reported to be present at Karan Johar's party. They have tested negative. Karan Johar and all his family members have tested negative. Kareena Kapoor's maid, however, has tested positive.9. The civic officials are now reaching out to designer Manish Malhotra who was also present at the party.10. Reports said the gathering was a dinner at Karan Johar's resident to celebrate 20 years of Kabhi Khushi Kabhie Gham.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/kareena-kapoor-amrita-arora-10-things-to-know-about-bollywood-covid-outbreak-101639568618431.html
15-12-2021||India||Bengal detects first Omicron case; 7-year-old Murshidabad boy tests positive||A seven-year-old boy from Murshidabad district, who returned from abroad with his parents on December 10, has become West Bengal’s first resident to test positive for the Omicron variant of the coronavirus, the state health department said on Wednesday afternoon. The family lives at Beniagram in Murshidabad’s Farakka area but on Wednesday the boy and his parents were in Kaliachak in the adjoining Malda district where they had gone to visit some relatives. “The boy is in stable condition,” said Sandip Sanyal, chief medical officer of health, Murshidabad. “Health workers are in touch with the family. The area where the family live has been declared a containment zone,” Sanyal added. “The child and his parents landed in Hyderabad late on the night of December 10. Their flight came from Abu Dhabi. They took a flight to Kolkata on December 11 and, according to reports received so far, travelled to Farakka in a car,” Sanyal said. “Their swab samples were collected at the Kolkata airport. The boy tested positive for the Omicron variant during genome sequencing,” Sanyal added. A senior health department official said in Kolkata that the child will be sent to a hospital soon and his parents and relatives will be kept in isolation following standard Covid-19 protocol. On Tuesday, Bengal reported 552 new Covid-19 cases and the total number of cases stood at 16,24,161. As many as 19,620 people have died in Bengal till Tuesday. The fatality rate stands at 1.21 % against a discharge rate of 98.33 % according to the health department’s last bulletin. There were 7,505 active cases till Tuesday night.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/bengal-detects-first-omicron-case-7-year-old-murshidabad-boy-tests-positive-101639568001280.html
15-12-2021||India||News updates from Hindustan Times: Govt says no proposal to revoke ban on Chinese apps, and all the latest news||Here are today’s top news, analysis and opinion. Know all about the latest news and other news updates from Hindustan Times.The electronics and information technology ministry told the Parliament on Wednesday that there was no proposal to remove the ban on blocked Chinese mobile applications. Read moreUnion minister for parliamentary affairs Pralhad Joshi on Wednesday said there was an “improvement” in Congress leader Rahul Gandhi as he was moving adjournment motions in the Lok Sabha over the Lakhimpur Kheri incident in which four farmers were killed in October. Read moreVirat Kohli has finally broken the silence on his removal as ODI captain of the Indian cricket team, narrating the exact details of how his conversation with the selectors unfolded. Read moreA total of 108 people from residential buildings housing Bollywood personalities Karan Johar, Kareena Kapoor, Amrita Arora and Seema Khan have tested negative for Covid-19 disease on Wednesday, according to the Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC). Read moreRanbir Kapoor recalled the time he assisted Sanjay Leela Bhansali on Black. Ranbir said that the way Sanjay treated him on the sets prepared him for the world. Read more“Incredible,” is probably one of the many words that you will be inclined to use while praising this video showcasing an amazing artwork. Shared on Instagram, the video involving the sketch of a cat may make your jaw drop in wonder. Read moreWhile winter season has its own appeal from dreamy weather, cosy bonfires to delicious delicacies, for people with certain ailments like cancer, it could be a tough time. Read more||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/news-updates-from-hindustan-times-govt-says-no-proposal-to-revoke-ban-on-chinese-apps-and-all-the-latest-news-101639565020102.html
15-12-2021||India||Nine killed as RTC bus plunges into stream in Andhra’s West Godavari district||Nine people, including five women, were killed when a state-run road transport corporation (RTC) bus fell off a bridge into a stream in Andhra Pradesh’s West Godavari district on Wednesday, officials said.The incident happened at Jalleru village of Jangareddygudem block in West Godavari district, when the driver of “Palle Velugu” bus (which carries passengers to rural areas) lost control over the vehicle, and hit the railing of the bridge. The bus then toppled into the stream.The bus, which was travelling from Velerupadu to Jangareddygudem, was expected to reach its destination in another 10 minutes, when the accident took place around noon.Jangareddygudem Revenue Divisional Officer (RDO) Y V Prasanna Lakshmi said according to preliminary information, there were at least 47 passengers in the bus. “The police, with the help of revenue staff and other locals, have recovered nine bodies, including five women and that of the driver, so far. Another 38 people, including children, were rescued,” she said.Lakshmi, however, did not rule out the possibility that a few others may be trapped beneath the bus or washed away. “A search operation is on to find out whether there are any other passengers missing. Efforts are being made to bring out the bus from the stream with the help of cranes. We have to check whether there are any others who might be buried under the bus,” the RDO said.All the rescued passengers, some of whom received serious injuries, were shifted to the government hospital at Jangareddygudem, she added.Andhra Pradesh chief minister Y S Jagan Mohan Reddy expressed shock over the bus accident in West Godavari district. Offering condolences to the bereaved families, he announced an ex gratia of ₹5 lakh to each of the families of the deceased. He asked the district officials to take all possible steps to provide the best medical treatment to the injured.State transport minister Perni Venkatramaiah also expressed shock over the incident and ordered a high-level probe by the district authorities into the causes of the accident.Governor Biswabhushan Harichandan and leader of opposition N Chandrababu Naidu also expressed their grief over the bus accident and conveyed their condolences to the kin of the deceased.
15-12-2021||India||'Switch your phone off...': Purported video of Ajay Mishra abusing journalists goes viral||A purported video of junior home minister Ajay Mishra Teni allegedly abusing journalists on being asked about his jailed son Ashish Mishra has surfaced on social media. The interaction, according to reports, took place when the minister went to his constituency to inaugurate an event. He was questioned on the Lakhimpur Kheri incident in connection with which his son has been arrested. The question, as seen in the video, irked the minister as he started hurling abuses on media people.News agency ANI has shared the viral video. Watch #WATCH | MoS Home Ajay Kumar Mishra 'Teni' hurls abuses at a journalist who asked a question related to charges against his son Ashish in the Lakhimpur Kheri violence case. pic.twitter.com/qaBPwZRqSKAs seen in the video, the minister exploded as he was asked about his son whom he reportedly visited. "There is no shame. Media people are thieves who have put an accused person in jail..switch your phone off... what do you want to know," the minister can be heard saying in the now-viral video.Lakhimpur SIT wants accused to be charged with attempt to murderThe reporter who was apparently abused by the minister has also issued a video message in which he said he asked the minister about the event that he inaugurate and then asked about the latest development in his son's case. In reply, the minister said it was a stupid question and abused, the reporter said in the video message which is also doing the rounds on Twitter. Watch: Ajay Mishra loses cool when asked about his jailed sonThe video comes at a time the Lakhimpur Kheri incident is in the spotlight with the investigators claiming that the incident was a pre-planned conspiracy. Several Congress leaders, including Rahul Gandhi, moved an adjournment motion in Parliament demanding Ajay Mishra's removal.  बेशर्मी की हद्दें पार करते मंत्री अजय मिश्र तेनी- ना क़ानून का ड़र, ना कोई भय, इतना अहंकार तो सत्ता का नशा और सरकार के संरक्षण से ही आता है । pic.twitter.com/HQe4ePFX7h"It has been said that it (Lakhimpur Kheri incident) is a conspiracy. It obviously is. Everyone knows whose son is involved. We want the minister (MoS Home Ajay Mishra) to resign. We want discussion in Parliament, but Prime Minister refuses. They are making excuses," Rahul Gandhi said.The vehicle which ran over protesting farmers in Lakhimpur Kheri on October 3 belonged to Ashish Mishra, son of the minister of state. Ashish Mishra is in jail and the investigating team probing Lakhimpur Kheri violence has said that the incident was a pre-planned conspiracy.The special investigation team which is probing the Lakhimpur Kheri violence said the evidence gathered so far does not indicate that it was an act of negligence or carelessness. Based on their finding, they filed an application to add new sections against the accused under charges of attempt to murder.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/switch-your-phone-off-purported-video-of-ajay-mishra-abusing-journalists-goes-viral-101639562875318.html
15-12-2021||India||Big push to design, make semiconductor chips in India gets Cabinet nod||The Union cabinet on Wednesday approved a budget of ₹76,000 crore for a production linked incentive (PLI) scheme for semiconductor and display board production in the country. Union telecom and IT minister Ashwini Vaishnaw said the entire ecosystem starting with the design and manufacture of the semiconductor chips will be developed in India.Union information and broadcasting minister Anurag Thakur said the scheme envisages the investment of ₹76,000 crore in the semiconductor production over the next five-six years. The ambitious project is named Programme for Development of Semiconductors and Display Manufacturing Ecosystem.Union Cabinet approves Programme for Development of Semiconductors and Display Manufacturing Ecosystem in India pic.twitter.com/kerzxHhTB7The government said the project will have a multiplied effect across different sectors and will help in deeper integration to the global value chain.It would contribute significantly towards achieving $5 trillion dollar economy and $5 trillion GDP (gross domestic product) by 2025.The programme will usher in a new era in electronics manufacturing by providing a globally competitive incentive package to companies in semiconductors and display manufacturing as well as design, the government said.Vaishnaw said, "...Prime minister Narendra Modi has taken a historic decision today that will help develop the complete semiconductor ecosystem -- from the design of semiconductor chips to their fabrication, packing and testing -- in the country."A Reuters article said, quoting sources, companies, including Israel's Tower Semiconductor, Apple's contract manufacturer Foxconn and a Singapore-based consortium have shown interest in setting up semiconductor fabrication units in India. The Vedanta Group was also keen to set up a display fabrication plant in the country, it said. The cabinet decision comes at a time when automakers and tech companies are grappling with a global semiconductor shortage.(With inputs from agencies)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/cabinet-approves-budget-for-design-manufacture-of-semiconductor-chips-101639562445969.html
15-12-2021||India||He has improved to the extent...: Pralhad Joshi's latest jibe at Rahul Gandhi||Union minister for parliamentary affairs Pralhad Joshi on Wednesday said there was an “improvement” in Congress leader Rahul Gandhi as he was moving adjournment motions in the Lok Sabha over the Lakhimpur Kheri incident in which four farmers were killed in October.Stating that Parliament earlier meant nothing to the Congress leader, Joshi said, "Gandhi has improved to the extent that he is giving notice. Earlier, Parliament was nothing in front of him and he did not give notice. It is a good thing now that he has started doing the same," news agency ANI quoted Joshi as saying. "Let the notice come and then we will see," he further said.Regarding the Lakhimpur Kheri violence, Joshi said an investigation was underway and the same was being supervised by the Supreme Court.Gandhi, the MP from Wayanad district in Kerala, moved an adjournment motion notice in the Lok Sabha over the Lakhimpur Kheri incident.Also read | Should settle there: Pralhad Joshi after Farooq Abdullah says India should talk with PakistanCongress leaders Adhir Ranjan Chaudhry, Gaurav Gogoi and K Suresh also moved the adjournment notices on the issue.The adjournment notice came a day after the Special Investigation Team (SIT) probing the Lakhimpur Kheri violence incident demanded the arrest of the 13 accused, including Union minister Ajay Mishra Teni's son Ashish.Based on its investigation, the SIT also moved the court for adding charges of attempt to murder, voluntarily causing grievous hurt by dangerous weapons, and acts done by several persons in furtherance of common intention.On October 3, eight people, including four protesting farmers, died after being mowed down by an SUV allegedly belonging to Ashish.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/he-has-improved-to-the-extent-pralhad-joshi-s-latest-jibe-at-rahul-gandhi-101639562148963.html
15-12-2021||India||Statehood to Jammu and Kashmir would be granted ‘at an appropriate time’: Centre||The Union home ministry told the Parliament on Wednesday that Jammu and Kashmir would be given statehood “at an appropriate time”. Minister of state for home affairs Nityanand Rai made the statement in response to a question from Congress lawmaker Vivek Tankha. Tankha sought to know whether a timeline was chalked out to grant statehood to the Union Territories of Jammu and Kashmir, and Ladakh.“Statehood to Jammu and Kashmir would be granted at an appropriate time,” Rai said in a written statement in the Lok Sabha.Tankha also asked whether a timeline was planned to hold elections in the two Union Territories. In response, Rai said the decision to schedule polls there is the prerogative of the Election Commission of India.In October, while speaking in Srinagar after a meeting to review the security situation in the Kashmir valley, Union home minister Amit Shah had said that Jammu and Kashmir’s statehood would be restored soon after the delimitation process and subsequent elections.Earlier, National Conference chief Farooq Abdullah said the government broke its promise that there would be no extension to the Jammu and Kashmir Delimitation Commission beyond March 6. He also urged the government to first grant statehood and then conduct polls there.Congress leader Ghulam Nabi Azad last month compared the scrapping of Jammu and Kashmir’s statehood with demoting a chief minister to the post of a member of the Legislative Assembly (MLA).In June, Congress leader Randeep Surjewala had said the Centre should accept the demand for restoration of statehood to Jammu and Kashmir in line with the Constitution and democracy. Congress leader P. Chidambaram had tweeted, “The Congress Party’s position, reiterated yesterday, that full statehood must be restored to J&K should clear any doubt or ambiguity. What was made under the Constitution cannot be unmade by an Act of Parliament misinterpreting and misusing the provisions of the Constitution.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/statehood-to-jammu-and-kashmir-would-be-granted-at-an-appropriate-time-centre-101639561881257.html
15-12-2021||India||Aryan Khan won't have to appear before NCB office every Friday||Bollywood actor Shah Rukh Khan's son Aryan Khan won't have to appear before the NCB Mumbai office every Friday, as it was mandated by the high court in its bail order, the Bombay high court ruled on Wednesday, modifying the bail order. Aryan had approached the court seeking modification in the bail condition as the drugs-on-cruise case in connection with which he was arrested is not being investigated by NCB Mumbai. The high court on Wednesday allowed the waiver but specified that Aryan will have to be present before the SIT Delhi as and when directed, provided the notice is given prior 72 hours. Justice Nitin Sambre, who allowed the waiver, said Aryan can travel outside Mumbai as long as he submits his itinerary to the investigation officer of the case beforehand."We are seeking modification of bail condition 'J' regarding attendance on Friday. Nothing is happening. Whenever they want he can be summoned. The Bombay branch is also not in the matter after SIT," senior advocate Amit Desai submitted on Wednesday. The NCB too agreed to a partial modification of the bail condition as NCB Mumbai is not probing the case. Special prosecutor Shreeram Shirsat who appeared for NCB said Aryan should be present when called by the SIT.Aryan Khan was granted bail by the high court on October 28 under 14 conditions. One of these conditions was Aryan should appear before the NCB's south Mumbai office every Friday to mark his presence. On Wednesday, as the high court heard the waiver plea, Aryan's lawyer Desai further argued that every time Aryan Khan appears before the NCB's office in Mumbai, there is a huge crowd and he has to be accompanied by police personnel, which causes unnecessary hassle. Since his release from jail, Aryan visited the NCB office every Friday. Before Aryan, model Munmum Dhamecha, a co-accused in the case, approached the Bombay high court asking permission to mark her presence at the Delhi office as she is a Del||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/aryan-khan-won-t-have-to-appear-before-ncb-office-every-friday-101639559958943.html
15-12-2021||India||West Bengal reports first Omicron case; 7-year-old boy tests positive||A seven-year-old boy has tested positive for the Omicron variant of the coronavirus disease in West Bengal, becoming the state's first patient of the new variant, the health department informed on Wednesday.According to reports, the boy arrived in Murshidabad district from Hyderabad. Both his parents have tested negative for Covid-19, Livemint reported.According to media reports, the boy had tested postive in Hyderabad and left for West Bengal.Earlier in the day, two foreign nationals in Telangana's Hyderabad also tested positive for the Omicron variant, a state health official said. The first person has been identified as a 24-year-old Kenyan national who landed on December 12 while the other is a 23-year-old man from Somalia, Telangana's director of public health, G Srinivasa Rao informed.Both are asymptomatic, he said. The two persons were diagnosed with Omicron infection during genome sequencing. Telangana has a total of three cases now.With the confirmed case in West Bengal, India has so far detected a total of 64 cases of the Omicron variant. Earlier on Tuesday, Rajasthan and Delhi reported four cases each of the Omicron variant.The central and state governments and other authorities are on high alert for the new Omicron or B.1.1.529 strain, which was first reported in Botswana on November 11 this year, and subsequently surged in South Africa. It has already been declared a ‘variant of concern’ by the World Health Organization (WHO).Omicron cases have spiked in European countries, as well as the United Kingdom and is expected to become dominant by next month, experts have said. However, the Indian government has said that the new variant may not be as severe in the country as a majority of citizens have already been infected by the Delta variant.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/west-bengal-reports-first-omicron-case-7-year-old-boy-tests-positive-101639559822132.html
15-12-2021||India||India's clean energy gets more funding than coal for the third successive year||Indian lenders channeled more funds to clean energy projects compared to coal-based ones for a third straight year in 2020 with more expected to flow into the renewables sector in the coming years after Prime Minister Narendra Modi unveiled ambitious goals last month for cutting emissions.Clean energy projects got 74% of the total funds from financial institutions last year, or 243.8 billion rupees ($3 billion), according to a report by New Delhi-based research organizations Climate Trends and Centre for Financial Accountability. That’s a 6% rise from 2019 approvals for clean energy projects of about 229.71 billion rupees in 2019. Just 85.2 billion rupees, or 26% of the 2020 funds from Indian lenders went to coal-fired plants, data from the report showed. This represents an 86% slump in approvals for coal plants since 2017 and is in line with declining availability of funds globally for fossil-fuel projects.  This trend is expected to continue after Modi announced India’s plan for net zero emissions by 2070 at COP26. Modi also raised India’s 2030 target for low-emission energy capacity to 500 gigawatt from 450 GW and to wants the country to generate half its electricity using renewable energy. Renewable energy forms 40% of India’s current installed capacity of 392 GW while coal remains the mainstay at 52%, according to government data.The report, which analyzed 42 project finance loans worth 329.97 billion rupees that closed last year, showed that solar energy got most of the financing and commercial banks didn’t lend to coal projects. Only the state-run Power Finance Corporation and Rural Electrification Corporation disbursed funds to fossil fuel-based projects.Despite lenders favoring clean energy, lending for coal in 2020 grew by 40% to 85.2 billion rupees after two straight years of declines as the state-owned banks emerged as the lenders of last resort. Also the number of coal projects getting financing have fallen although India has brought online significant coal capacity with about 34 GW getting built and another 21 GW in the pipeline. “Worryingly, the stranded risk of these assets is significant,” Climate Trends and CFA said in the report. “As the growth in India’s energy demand slows, and the number of renewable energy installations rises, the utilization rate of coal plants will continue to decline. As such, their economics will deteriorate further.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/indias-clean-energy-gets-more-funding-than-coal-for-the-third-successive-year-101639556924753.html
15-12-2021||India||Opposition leaders meet Venkaiah Naidu over suspension of 12 MPs||Rajya Sabha chairman M Venkaiah Naidu’s meeting with Leader of the Opposition in the Upper House, Mallikarjun Kharge, and other top Opposition leaders on Wednesday saw little progress over the ongoing impasse surrounding the suspension of 12 Opposition lawmakers.Naidu told the Opposition leaders that there has been no indication yet of any regret from the suspended MPs. Also, senior House officials pointed out that such suspensions have never been revoked before the completion of the suspension period without the suspended MPs or their party leaders regretting the conduct that led to punitive action, an official said.Wednesday’s meeting saw a united Opposition, including leaders from the Congress, the NCP, the Rashtriya Janata Dal and the Shiv Sena, approaching Naidu to resolve the issue.On Tuesday evening, Congress president Sonia Gandhi held a meeting with four other Opposition leaders, where it was decided that Pawar, leader of the Opposition Mallikarjun Kharge, and other top leaders will approach Naidu to seek revocation of the suspension and defuse the crisis.“During discussions on the suspension issue, the Opposition leaders suggested to Naidu to convene a meeting of leaders of various parties to consider resolving the stalemate,” an official said. “The chairman observed that such a meeting will be called when it is appropriate. In saying so, Naidu implied that such a meeting would serve no purpose when either the suspended MPs or leaders of their respective parties are not willing to reflect on their conduct for which they were suspended and regret the same in an appropriate manner.”While Congress leaders Anand Sharma and P Chidambaram served a notice for the termination of the suspension of the 12 MPs, Naidu argued that the notice was not in order. “It was not accompanied by the text of the motion to be moved in the House. Naidu also said that even if any notice served was in order, he would need time to examine the same before deciding on its admission, and he can’t be forced either inside or outside the House for a decision on the same,” the official said.“Rule 223(1) of the Rules of Procedure of the House requires that every notice in writing shall be addressed to the secretary general and shall be left at the council notice office so as to enable further consideration. On the contrary, the notice of Sharma and Chidambaram, scribbled on a piece of paper, was given to chairman Shri Naidu in the House when zero hour was in progress, and they demanded immediate action on it,” said another official.
15-12-2021||India||When IAF group captain Varun Singh's father said his son was a fighter||With the death of IAF Group Captain Varun Singh on Wednesday, the tragic chopper crash in Tamil Nadu in which India's first Chief of Defence Staff Bipin Rawat died, has no survivor. Varun Singh fought valiantly for a week as he was being treated at Bengaluru's Command Hospital. Defence minister Rajnath Singh was in constant touch with Varun Singh's family.With a very high percentage of burns, Varun's condition was critical and he was on life support. His condition was fluctuating throughout the treatment, though some reports said he started responding to the treatment.Varun's father Colonel KP Singh (retired) was hopeful and, a few days ago, said that his son was a fighter and will come out victorious in this battle.Here are 10 things to know about Varun Singh and his 7-day battle as the sole survivor of the chopper crash1. Varun was on the chopper as the liaison officer for the visit of General Rawat to the Defence Services Staff College in Wellington.2. Varun Singh was conferred with the Shaurya Chakra in August for averting a possible mid-air accident after his Tejas light combat aircraft was hit by a major technical last year.3. On October 12, 2020, Singh was flying a test sortie in the LCA when an emergency developed due to the failure of cockpit pressurisation at a high altitude. Group Captain Varun Singh regained control of the aircraft showing exceptional courage and flying skills.4. After being awarded Shaurya Chakra, Singh wrote an emotional letter to the principal of his alma mater, Army Public School in Chandimandir, which surfaced on social media after the Coonoor chopper crash.5. "It is ok to be mediocre. Not everyone will excel at school and not everyone will be able to score in the 90s. If you do, it's an amazing achievement and must be applauded," Singh wrote in the letter, crediting his alma mater for his achievement in life.6. Singh wrote that he was an average student and barely scored first division in Class 12 but had a passion for flying, which he pursued.7. Varun had cleared the National Defence Academy test in his very first attempt.8. Born in Uttar Pradesh, Varun Singh belonged to an Army family. While his father served in the Army Air Defence, his brother is in the Navy.9. Varun Singh is survived by his wife and two children. 10. After the crash, Varun was rescued by the villagers and was initially treated at Sulur. Later, he was shifted to Bengaluru Army hospital. Reports said doctors were preparing for his skin grafting on Tuesday, a day before he passed away.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/when-iaf-group-captain-varun-singh-s-father-said-his-son-was-a-fighter-101639558950458.html
15-12-2021||India||No proposal to revoke ban on Chinese apps, Centre tells LS||The electronics and information technology ministry told the Parliament on Wednesday that there was no proposal to remove the ban on blocked Chinese mobile applications.In response to Bahujan Samaj Party (BSP) MP Malook Nagar, IT minister Ashwini Vaishnaw said, “There is no proposal with the ministry to revoke the blocking orders.”India on September 3, 2020, banned 118 China-linked mobile apps, including widely popular game PUBG, two months after similar curbs on 59 apps, mostly Chinese, and a month after banning 47 more apps linked to that country. MEITY had then said that the apps were attempting to steal and surreptitiously transmit users’ data “to servers which have locations outside India”.Also Read: Despite Omicron worries, Australia reopens borders for non-citizensThis ban was announced amid border tensions between India and China which has not been resolved fully despite multiple rounds of negotiations at the diplomatic and military levels. The Centre cited concerns over the apps being “prejudicial to sovereignty and integrity… defence of India, security of state and public order” amid a months’ long standoff with its northern neighbour at the Line of Actual Control (LAC) in Eastern Ladakh.“We continually strive to comply with local laws and regulations and do our best to address any concerns the government may have,” a TikTok spokesperson previously said when the ban was imposed in 2020.Apart from this, IT minister Ashwini Vaishnaw said broader consensus with states was required for better regulation of cybercrimes through new and secure browsers.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/no-proposal-to-revoke-ban-on-chinese-apps-centre-tells-ls-101639558760894.html
15-12-2021||India||Covid-19: Telangana reports its first cases of Omicron variant||Telangana has reported the state’s first two cases of the Omicron variant of the coronavirus. A Kenyan national and a Somali national, who landed in Hyderabad on December 12, have tested positive for the new variant, state director of health G Srinivasa Rao said on Wednesday.Samples taken from the 24-year-old woman from Kenya and the 23-year-old man from Somalia were sent to the Centre for Cellular and Molecular Biology for genome sequencing. The results were revealed on Tuesday night. “Both of them were found to be positive for the Omicron variant,” the health director told reporters.The woman passenger was staying at Tolichowki area in the state capital and was immediately shifted to the Telangana Institute of Medical Sciences (TIMS). “We have also collected swab samples of all her contacts, including family members and kept them in isolation,” the director said.The 23-year-old man from Somalia was staying at Mehdipatnam and efforts were made to shift him to TIMS and test his contacts. “However, both the passengers have very mild symptoms and there is nothing to panic. They are safe,” Rao said.Also Read: Despite Omicron worries, Australia reopens borders for non-citizensHe said a seven-year-old boy who too landed at the Hyderabad airport with his family on December, had tested positive for Omicron.“But he and his family did not enter the city and instead took a connecting domestic flight to Kolkata immediately. Before leaving, the boy gave the throat swab samples for testing and it turned out to be positive for the Omicron variant. We informed the West Bengal government about the same. So at present, Telangana has only two Omicron cases,” he said.The director said it has been decided to step up testing of passengers from even non-risk countries. “We are also expanding the vaccination programme on a war footing. So far, 41.92 million vaccine doses have been administered to residents by Tuesday evening and 97% of the eligible population in the state had received their first dose of vaccination,” he said.Stating that the Telangana government was fully prepared to tackle a possible third wave of Covid-19, Rao sounded a note of caution about the Omicron variant. “This variant spreads very fast and even through air, and the cases are expected to double within a span of two days, unless people take enough precautions,” he said.However,he said that there was no need to panic as symptoms of Omicron variant were not dangerous. “Even those who have taken two doses of vaccination must be cautious and take all precautions,” he added.
15-12-2021||India||Helicopter crash: Sole survivor Varun Singh dies in hospital||Group Captain Varun Singh, the only person to have survived the December 8 Mi-17V5 chopper crash in which 13 people including chief of defence staff (CDS) General Bipin Rawat were killed, passed away on Wednesday morning after battling for life for a week. The IAF (Indian Air Force) is deeply saddened to inform the passing away of brave heart Group Captain Varun Singh, who succumbed this morning to the injuries sustained in the helicopter accident on December 8, 2021. The IAF offers sincere condolences and stands firmly with the bereaved family,” the air force said in a statement on Twitter. Singh passed away at the Air Force Command Hospital in Bengaluru. Son of an army officer, Singh was awarded Shaurya Chakra earlier this year for displaying outstanding courage and presence of mind while handling a rare mid-air emergency involving a light combat aircraft (LCA) that he was flying last year. Prime Minister Narendra Modi tweeted about Singh’s demise. “Group Captain Varun Singh served the nation with pride, valour and utmost professionalism. I am extremely anguished by his passing away. His rich service to the nation will never be forgotten. Condolences to his family and friends. Om Shanti,” the PM wrote.Defence minister Rajnath Singh said he was pained beyond words to learn of the officer’s demise. “He was a true fighter who fought till his last breath. My thoughts and deepest condolences are with his family and friends. We stand firmly with the family, in this hour of grief,” the minister tweeted. Congress leader Rahul extended his condolences to Singh’s family and friends. “This is a sad moment for the country. We all are with you in this grief,” he tweeted.President Ram Nath Kovind conferred Shaurya Chakra, India’s third-highest peacetime gallantry medal, on Varun Singh on August 15, 2021. He was a wing commander at that time. On October 12, 2020, Singh was flying a test sortie on an LCA when an emergency developed due to the failure of cockpit pressurisation at high altitude. It was an unprecedented failure. “There was rapid loss of altitude, with the aircraft pitching up and down viciously. Despite being in extreme physical and mental stress in an extreme life-threatening situation, he maintained exemplary composure and regained control of the aircraft, thereby exhibiting exceptional flying skills,” Singh’s citation said. “He displayed extraordinary courage and skill to safely land the fighter aircraft. The pilot went beyond the call of duty and landed the aircraft taking calculated risks. This allowed an accurate analysis of the fault on the indigenously designed fighter and further institution of preventive measures against recurrence,” it added. After being awarded Shaurya Chakra, Singh wrote an emotional letter to the principal of his alma mater, Army Public School in Chandimandir, thanking the school and his teachers for their mentorship in his formative years. “I credit this prestigious award to all those I have been associated with over the years in school, the National Defence Academy, and thereafter the Indian Air Force, as I firmly believe that my actions that day were a result of the grooming and mentoring by my teachers, instructors and peers over the years.” Singh wrote. He concluded his letter by writing an inspiring message for the schoolchildren. “It is okay to be mediocre… Whatever you work towards, be dedicated, do your best... Never lose hope, never think that you cannot be good at what you want to be,” Singh wrote. 
15-12-2021||India||Terrorist killed in Pulwama encounter belonged to Hizbul, was active since 2017: J&K Police||The Jammu and Kashmir Police announced early on Wednesday morning that a terrorist has been killed in an encounter in Pulwama district. That terrorist has now been identified as Feroz Ahmad Dar, a resident of Heff-Shrimal in Shopian.The police described him as an A+ category terrorist of proscribed terror group Hizbul Mujahideen. “He was involved in several terror crimes, including attack on Minority Guard in 2018 at Zainapora Shopian, in which 4 police personnel were martyred,” the police said in a statement.“Incriminating materials, arms and ammunition, including one AK-series rifle along with three magazines recovered from him,” the statement further said.A case has been registered case under relevant sections of law and investigation has been initiated, the Jammu and Kashmir Police added in the statement.The encounter in Pulwama started after midnight and continued till Wednesday morning.The security forces initially launched a cordon and search operation in Uzram Pathri village of Pulwama district on the intervening night of Tuesday and Wednesday, acting on a specific input regarding the presence of a terrorist.The joint operation by Jammu and Kashmir Police, 44RR and 182 Battalion of the Central Reserve Police Force (CRPF) soon turned into an encounter after terrorists fired upon the forces, who retaliated.The terrorist was given repeated opportunities to surrender, but he kept firing indiscriminately upon the security forces, according to the statement.As per police records, Feroz Ahmed Dar was active since 2017 and was also involved in killing of a young girl named Ishrat Muneer, a resident of Dangerpora in Pulwama in February 2019. Dar was involved in killing of a non-local labourer namely Charnajeet from Punjab who was employed by an Apple orchard owner in Zainapora area of Shopian.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/terrorist-killed-in-pulwama-encounter-belonged-to-hizbul-was-active-since-2017-101639555560373.html
15-12-2021||India||Metro Matters | Needed: Systemic changes to prevent air emergencies in Delhi-NCR||Another winter, another season with an air emergency. 2021 has been depressingly familiar in the National Capital Region, lungs and air choked with smoke, and marked by the usual administrative procrastination that has invited attention from the courts. This judicial intervention in turn has led to drastic curbs such as halting construction, banning trucks carrying non-essential supplies into Delhi and the closing of schools and educational institutions among other measures.
15-12-2021||India||Farmer protest over but Singhu & Ghazipur borders will open from Jan. Here's why||Even as the majority of farmers have left the Delhi borders and returned home following a culmination of over a year-long protest against the farm laws, the National Highways Authority of India (NHAI) has said that Ghazipur and Singhu borders will open completely for commuters from January onwards.While the Ghazipur connects Delhi and Ghaziabad, the Singhu border connects Delhi and Haryana.According to Hindustan Times's sister publication Livehindustan, the reason cited by the officials for the delay in opening the borders is that removal of concrete barricades erected by the police may take some time to clear, following which a thorough inspection will be carried out.Also read | Lakhimpur SIT wants accused to be charged with attempt to murderThe report citing NHAI officials also mentioned that the inspection work will be carried out from December 15 onwards, the day when the last batch of farmers camping at the borders will depart.According to officials, at least two weeks will be required to clean the borders, along with the removal of barricades and the inspection work.Meanwhile, the Delhi Police on Tuesday dismantled almost all barricades at the Singhu border that were erected to prevent the protesting farmers from moving towards the national capital.Also read | As dust settles at Delhi’s Singhu border, protest leaves little behindSpeaking to news agency PTI, a senior police officer said the concrete barriers and other obstacles have been cleared from the Singhu border. However, the road is not open for traffic yet.Thousands of farmers from Punjab, Haryana and Uttar Pradesh had laid siege to the Singhu, Ghazipur and Tikri borders in November 2020 to demand the repeal of the three farm laws, which were finally withdrawn in the Winter Session of Parliament earlier this month.Farmers have taken down their settlements and have vacated the borders around Delhi, which were their protesting sites for the last one year.BKU leader Rakesh Tikait has informed that he would leave the protesting site at the Ghazipur border on December 15.(With agency inputs)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/farmer-protest-over-but-singhu-ghazipur-borders-will-open-from-jan-here-s-why-101639552565580.html
15-12-2021||India||Group Captain Varun Singh, sole survivor of IAF chopper crash, succumbs to injuries||Group Captain Varun Singh, the sole survivor of the military helicopter crash near Coonoor in Tamil Nadu's district last week, has succumbed to his injuries, informed the Indian Air Force (IAF) on Wednesday. Singh was undergoing treatment at the Command Hospital Air Force in Bengaluru following the tragic air disaster on December 8, which claimed the lives of India's first Chief of Defence Staff (CDS) General Bipin Rawat, his wife Madhulika, and other armed forces personnel on board.“IAF is deeply saddened to inform the passing away of braveheart Group Captain Varun Singh, who succumbed this morning to the injuries sustained in the helicopter accident on 08 Dec 21. IAF offers sincere condolences and stands firmly with the bereaved family,” tweeted the Indian Air Force from its official handle on the microblogging website.IAF is deeply saddened to inform the passing away of braveheart Group Captain Varun Singh, who succumbed this morning to the injuries sustained in the helicopter accident on 08 Dec 21. IAF offers sincere condolences and stands firmly with the bereaved family.Prime Minister Narendra Modi condoled the demise of Captain Singh, saying, “... I am extremely anguished by his passing away. His rich service to the nation will never be forgotten. Condolences to his family and friends.”Group Captain Varun Singh served the nation with pride, valour and utmost professionalism. I am extremely anguished by his passing away. His rich service to the nation will never be forgotten. Condolences to his family and friends. Om Shanti.“Deeply pained to learn about the passing away of Group Captain Varun Singh, who was battling with the injuries after the helicopter accident in Coonoor,” tweeted Union home minister Amit Shah. “May God bless the Brave's soul and give strength to his family. My deepest condolences. Om Shanti Shanti Shanti.”Deeply pained to learn about the passing away of Group Captain Varun Singh, who was battling with the injuries after the helicopter accident in Coonoor. May God bless the Brave's soul and give strength to his family. My deepest condolences. Om Shanti Shanti Shanti.Singh, a Shaurya Chakra awardee, was travelling with General Rawat as his liaison officer for a visit to the Wellington-based Defence Services Staff College (DSSC), where the CDS was to deliver a lecture. After the helicopter crash, he was brought to the Military Hospital in Wellington but was later shifted to Bengaluru's Air Force Command Hospital.In its last medical update, the IAF had said on Tuesday that Group Captain Varun Singh was critical, on life support at the Bengaluru hospital, but expressed hope that he will be stable.
15-12-2021||India||Corruption or diarchy? Bihar’s varsities search for answers||At the foundation function of Patna University on October 1, additional chief secretary of the department of education, Sanjay Kumar alleged there was a distortion in the higher education system in the state which created a distance between the government and the varsities, which he claimed were runningunder a “diarchy” system. “We are try to improve higher education. However, the diarchy system in higher education gives administrative control to the chancellor’s office although all the finance is taken care of by the state government. This also needs to be discussed and debated. I think this diarchy has created a bit of distortion in the higher education system. You should also discuss and debate it. Why is there a distance between the government and the varsities...,” he had said in the presence of state education minister Vijay Kumar Choudhary, revealing how the government views challenges in the higher education ecosystem in the state.Governor as the chancellor of state universities has been an old practice, just as the President of India happens to be the Visitor of Central universities. Corruption issues In November this year, the special vigilance unit (SVU) raided Rajendra Prasad, a serving Magadh University VC, and recovered alleged ill-gotten wealth, resulting in tensions between the government and the Governor’s house. Education minister Vijay Kumar Choudhary did not attend the function at Raj Bhawan to award top performers in the universities.A day before the function, Maulana Mazharul Haq Arabic and Persian University vice chancellor Md Qudus wrote directly to chief minister Nitish Kumar, accusing Lalit Narayan Mithila University (Darbhanga) VC, SP Singh of financial misconduct . Singh at one of point held the charge of four universities and now holds charge of three.It is not the first time VCs have been accused of corruption, mostly related to purchase of books and answer-books or tenders and some of them were removed by the Raj Bhawan in the last one decade. At present, VC of Veer Kuer Singh University has been on compulsory leave for over six months, power of VC of Jai Prakash University has been seized for close to 10 months and VC of Magadh University has been granted medical leave following raids at his office and residence. Also Read: India needs independent regulatory body to oversee Big Tech firms: Sushil Modi“The university system is such that any decision has to pass through several levels of scrutiny, viz. syndicate, senate, technical committee for tenders, pay fixation committee etc. and there are designated officers, viz. registrar, finance officer, financial advisor, besides others. What needs to be examined is how and at which level corruption is allowed to happen and how such decisions are cleared. The past record shows that the matter is forgotten with the removal of one VC or officer,” said a former vice-chancellor of a state university, who was not willing to be named. Varsities struggle While corruption issues and political slugfest in state universities hog media limelight, the basic issues confronting students such as late sessions, unfilled vacancies of faculty and outdated curriculum, remain unaddressed. At present, except Patna University, academic sessions at all others are running late, some delayed by two years.Even salary payment continues to be erratic with retired teachers still awaiting arrear of the 7th Pay Commission. Teachers and staff in colleges under Patna-based Pataliputra University have not been paid for the last three months.“The government rightly wants proof of utilisation of funds released earlier. But for any lapse, the accountability should be fixed on the authorities concerned. The teachers and staff should not be made to suffer,” the teachers’ body of the College of Science, Art & Commerce (Patna) said in a letter to the VC. Though the new VC, RK Singh, was appointed on November 24, he is yet to take charge even after the lapse of over a fortnight. In other universities, the authorities have managed to give salary through internal sources in anticipation that the government will release the grant. The government puts the blame on the universities for delay, citing lack of utilisation or diversion of funds. Late sessions, poor ranking Under the new education policy (NEP), accreditation is a basic requirement for funding. Since 2013, there has been a rush by institutions to get accredited to be eligible for Rashtriya Uchchtar Shiksha Abhiyan or RUSA funding. Despite the 2022 deadline to get accredited, there is not much enthusiasm among institutions who fear poor grading due to severe shortage of teachers, poor student feedback, inadequate infrastructure and lack of research. The total number of NAAC-accredited colleges in the state is less than 100, including just six in the A grade. Bihar has 250 constituent colleges and an even higher number of affiliated or private colleges. Only Patna University is accredited B+. Nalanda Open University, which runs distance education courses only, has time till 2023 to acquire ‘A’ grade to be able to continue admitting students. Low GER, huge vacancies Chief minister Nitish Kumar’s focus is on increasing the gross enrolment ratio (GER) in higher education, which remains very low in Bihar at around 15%, while it was 27.4 at the national level in 2017-18, according to the All India Survey on Higher Education (AISHE). Tamil Nadu recorded 49% GER.Under the new education policy, the target is to take GER to 50% nationally by 2035. To achieve the target, the government aims to increase around 20,000 seats this year and open post-graduate teaching at the district level to boost GER, despite 50% of posts in colleges and universities lying vacant. To make up for the shortage of teachers, the government has decided to appoint ad-hoc teachers, which has led to demand for absorption or weightage in appointments and the matter has landed in the high court. The government decision to provide free post graduate education to girls has created a new set of practical problems for institutions as except Patna University no other educational institution has been reimbursed the fee..
15-12-2021||India||News updates from Hindustan Times: Mumbai schools reopen for classes 1 to 7, and all the latest news||Here are today’s top news, analysis and opinion. Know all about the latest news and other news updates from Hindustan Times.Schools in Mumbai reopened for classes 1 to 7 on Wednesday after more than 20 months amid a rising threat against the Omicron variant of coronavirus across the country. Schools were shut in the region in March 2020 as part of restrictions imposed due to the outbreak of the coronavirus pandemic. Read moreInstant messaging platform WhatsApp announced on Wednesday the ‘Digital Payments Utsav’, its pilot program of empowering 500 villages across Karnataka and Maharashtra with access to digital payments through ‘payments on WhatsApp’. Read moreA joint military brigade of China’s People’s Liberation Army (PLA) has recently carried out a “real combat drill” involving anti-nuclear, chemical and biological warfare in Tibet in the backdrop of the ongoing Sino-India border tension in eastern Ladakh. Read moreIndian cricket is going through significant unrest ever since the Board of Control for Cricket in India (BCCI) announced Rohit Sharma as the ODI captain last week. Rohit succeeded Virat Kohli in the role, who had originally stepped down only in T20Is. Read moreKaran Johar on Wednesday morning addressed reports calling his home ‘a hotspot’ for Covid-19. He also clarified that an eight people ‘intimate gathering’ isn't ‘a party.’ Read moreAfter the super debacle of Sayameva Jayate 2, John Abraham is back with what appears to be a comparatively sober action drama, Attack. The teaser of the film is out and shows John in commando mode, taking on enemies after an attack. Read moreSuresh Raina often posts different shares on Instagram. Every now and then, he also shares videos that showcase him cooking various dishes. Just like this latest video where he donned the chef’s hat to cook a winter delicacy, sarson ka saag. Read moreAs the mercury drops and the chill sets in, all of a sudden one may develop uncomfortables aches and pains in the body. Joint pains are especially common in winter season, making life difficult especially for arthritis patients. Read moreIndian-born Leena Nair quit Unilever to join French luxury group Chanel as its Global Chief Executive. Chanel picked a consumer goods veteran to run one of the world's biggest luxury goods groups. Watch more||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/news-updates-from-hindustan-times-mumbai-schools-reopen-for-classes-1-to-7-and-all-the-latest-news-101639551342640.html
15-12-2021||India||The legal intricacies that revolve around the ongoing Gurugram Namaz issue||A controversy has been brewing in Haryana’s Gurugram over Friday namaz in public spaces. The last few weeks have seen aggressive protests by Hindu groups nearly every Friday, an administration that has been slow to respond, and a weekly law and order issue. The state government and district administration had initially granted approval for namaz at certain designated sites, only to withdraw it later amid these protests.
15-12-2021||India||WhatsApp empowers 500 villages in India with access to digital payments||Instant messaging platform WhatsApp announced on Wednesday the ‘Digital Payments Utsav’, its pilot program of empowering 500 villages across Karnataka and Maharashtra with access to digital payments through ‘payments on WhatsApp’. The announcement – in line with its parent company Meta's vision to accelerate financial inclusion – was made at Fuel For India 2021, an annual event that showcases the positive impact and socio-economic transformation delivered by the organisation's family of apps.Announcing WhatsApp’s game-changing intervention for ‘new-to-digital’ users, WhatsApp India head Abhijit Bose said, “We are committed to accelerating financial inclusion in the country. We have started this pilot programme in 500 villages across Karnataka and Maharashtra as part of our mission to take on board the next 500 million into the digital payments ecosystem.”He said that WhatsApp’s “ease of use and reliability” can promote the adoption of UPI with users across the society, “including those at the bottom of the pyramid.”“We will continue to contribute meaningfully in this journey of educating users at the grassroots, so they can trust digital payments, as they gradually make the transition from a ‘cash-only’ way of financial life,” said Bose.The ‘Digital Payments Utsav’ was launched on October 15 earlier this year at the Kyathanahalli village in Karnataka's Mandya district, where on-ground facilitators familiarised villagers with the various aspects of digital payments – including signing up for UPI, setting up an account, and the best practices for safely using digital payments.WhatsApp said that initial results from the pilot programme have been encouraging. Villagers have begun adopting ‘payments on WhatsApp’ as a new model for transactions, it said.“The village-grocery store or the beauty-parlor owner and scores of other people and small and medium businesses are now accepting and receiving payments digitally using ‘payments on WhatsApp’” the company said in a statement.It also provided a number of testimonials from villagers, who participated in the pilot and shared their experience at the Meta Fuel for India event.Chidananda KJ, a gram panchayat member of the Kyathanahalli village, said, “Withdrawing money from banks in villages used to be tedious and time-consuming, and ATMs usually do not have cash. Things have become much easier because of payments on WhatsApp.”“I’ve been running my parlour for the past ten years,” said Shruthi K, the owner of a beauty salon. “Old customers prefer to pay by cash. I don’t have my own UPI-ID. So when new customers want to pay digitally, I give them my son’s WhatsApp QR code.”WhatsApp has also recently placed the iconic ₹ symbol in its chat, thus making it recognisable and easy for people across segments to use the digital payments feature. Additionally, the messaging platform has also equipped its main camera to scan QR codes, adding another layer of convenience for users to make payments on WhatsApp, thus enabling in the process access to 20 million QR code-accepting stores in the country.As part of WhatsApp’s India roadmap for payments, the platform plans to make significant investments behind ‘Payments on WhatsApp’ over the next six months in order to accelerate its growth across India. Notably, for the payments feature, WhatsApp has partnered up with NPCI and RBI in achieving the shared objective of scaling the adoption of UPI and enabling financial inclusion for those most in need.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/whatsapp-empowers-500-villages-in-india-with-access-to-digital-payments-101639546782135.html
15-12-2021||India||Former Tamil Nadu minister Thangamani booked by DVAC in disproportionate assets case; premises raided||The directorate of vigilance and anti-corruption (DVAC) has filed a case against former Tamil Nadu minister and AIADMK leader P Thangamani in connection with a disproportionate assets case. The former electricity minister is accused of amassing wealth disproportionate to his known sources of income.DVAC officials said that searches are going on in 69 places, including residence and office of the former minister in Tamil Nadu (Chennai, Salem, Karur, Coimbatore) and other locations in Karnataka and Andhra Pradesh.The DVAC said in its FIR filed against the minister that he accumulated assets worth ₹4,85,72,0197 ( ₹4.85 crore) in excess of his known income.The FIR further said that Thangamani invested some of this “Ill-gotten money in crypto assets”.Thangamani is the fifth former minister and leader of the opposition party being searched by the DVAC. The others to come under vigilance net are MR Vijayabhaskar, SP Velumani, K C Veeramani and C Vijayabaskar.Thangamani held the portfolio of electricity, prohibition and excise between May 23, 2016 and May 6, 2021 in the previous AIADMK regime.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/former-tamil-nadu-minister-p-thangamani-booked-by-dvac-premises-raided-101639544310370.html
15-12-2021||India||Narcotics Act Amendment Bill in Rajya Sabha for passage||After being passed in the Lok Sabha on Monday, the Narcotics Drugs and Psychotropic Substances (Amendment) Bill, 2021 will be in the Rajya Sabha for consideration and passage on Wednesday. It seeks to replace the Narcotic Drugs and Psychotropic Substances (Amendment) Ordinance, 2021. Finance minister Nirmala Sitharaman is likely to move the Bill in the second half of the Upper House proceedings.According to PRS Legislative Research, the Bill amends the Narcotic Drugs and Psychotropic Substances Act, 1985 to correct a drafting error. The Act regulates certain operations (such as manufacture, transport, and consumption) related to narcotic drugs and psychotropic substances.In 2014, the Act was amended and the clause number of the definition for such illicit activities was changed. However, the section on penalty for financing these illicit activities was not amended and continued to refer to the earlier clause number, rendering the punishment inoperable. The Bill amends the section on the penalty to change the reference to the new clause number.Also Read | India needs independent regulatory body to oversee Big Tech firms: Sushil ModiFinance minister Nirmala Sitharaman had told Parliament that the retrospective provision made in the bill was not “substantive” in nature.On Wednesday, the finance minister will be introducing the Appropriation (No.5) Bill,2021 in the Lok Sabha. The Bill aims to authorise payment and appropriation of certain further sums from and out of the Consolidated Fund of India for the services of the financial year 2021-2022. The Bill was supposed to be taken up on Tuesday.Congress’ Member of Parliament (MP) Adhir Ranjan Chowdhury and Trinamool Congress (TMC) MP Saugata Roy will seek a discussion on price rise in Lok Sabha.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/narcotics-act-amendment-bill-in-rajya-sabha-for-passage-101639542799552.html
15-12-2021||India||President Kovind begins 3-day visit to Bangladesh to attend 50th Victory Day celebrations||President Ram Nath Kovind on Wednesday embarked on a three-day State visit to Bangladesh to participate in the 50th Victory Day celebrations in Dhaka."Beginning Wednesday, President Kovind will be on a State visit to Bangladesh. The visit will be from December 15-17. This visit is in context of 50th Victory Day celebrations in Dhaka at which Bangladesh President Abdul Hamid has invited President Kovind to represent India as a guest of honour," Foreign Secretary Harsh Vardhan Shringla said on Tuesday during a press briefing.This is the first visit of President Kovind to Bangladesh since the Covid-19 outbreak.President Ram Nath Kovind on Wednesday embarked on a three-day State visit to Bangladesh to participate in the 50th Victory Day celebrations in Dhaka."Beginning Wednesday, President Kovind will be on a State visit to Bangladesh. The visit will be from December 15-17. This visit is in context of 50th Victory Day celebrations in Dhaka at which Bangladesh President Abdul Hamid has invited President Kovind to represent India as a guest of honour," Foreign Secretary Harsh Vardhan Shringla said on Tuesday during a press briefing.This is the first visit of President Kovind to Bangladesh since the Covid-19 outbreak.|#+|"Bangladesh inviting our President to be the guest of honour on this occasion to join to commemorate this event at which he is the only foreign dignitary who will be represented. At the same time, our president going out for the first time since the COVID pandemic is also very significant," Shringla said.Emphasising that the visit of the President provides an opportunity to renew India's bonds with Dhaka, Shringla said that the relations are based on a shared geographical space, heritage, history and shared experience of New Delhi's support to Bangladesh during its war of liberation."It is also an occasion to take note of the width, depth, vitality and dynamism of the contemporary ties," Shringla added.During the visit, the President will hold a delegation-level meeting with Hamid. Meanwhile, Bangladesh Prime Minister Sheikh Hasina and Foreign Minister Dr A K Abdul Momen are scheduled to call upon the President, the Ministry of External Affairs had earlier said in a press release.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/president-ram-nath-kovind-begins-3-day-visit-to-bangladesh-to-attend-50th-victory-day-celebrations-101639541783189.html
15-12-2021||India||India needs independent regulatory body to oversee Big Tech firms: Sushil Modi||Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) lawmaker Sushil Modi on Tuesday said India needs an independent regulatory body that will regulate the activities of Big Tech firms and ensure that they dedicate proper budgetary allocation towards “content moderation” as well as “revenue sharing” with traditional media organisations. He also accused social media platform Facebook of not flagging fake content and hate speech, thereby “undermining [the] safety” of users in India. Speaking in the Rajya Sabha during zero hour, Modi said Google and Facebook together dominate around 75% of the digital advertising market in India. “With ad revenues of ₹23,213 crore - ₹9,326 crore for Facebook and ₹13,887 crore for Google - they (Facebook and Google) earn a share higher than the combined revenues of the top 10 listed traditional media companies. At ₹8,396 crore through their advertisement reseller model, they send away the major portion. Facebook sends 90% of gross advertisement revenues to the global subsidiary, while Google India sends 87%,” he said. The lawmaker claimed that these Big Tech firms don’t pay traditional news platforms sufficiently despite making money by displaying their journalistic content. “To ensure this following an EU directive, countries such as France, Germany and Australia have already legislated neighbouring rights in which platforms such as Google are made to pay traditional media outlets for use of their content,” he said. Criticising the companies for not flagging hate speech and fake news, Modi said, “Facebook is undermining safety of the largest user base of 34 crore users in India. It does not flag problematic content such as fake [news], misinformation and hate speech. As per a report, Facebook found that over 40% top views in the state of West Bengal were ‘fake or unauthentic’.” Modi said the social media giant spends “a miniscule 13% of its budget” to flag content outside the US. The MP also said with its budget allocation for India, the platform lacks capacity to flag content for Hindi and Bangla languages.
15-12-2021||NA||Parliament LIVE: Lok Sabha, Rajya Sabha adjourned till Thursday amid protests||Yet another day of ruckus forced both Houses of the Parliament to adjourn abruptly for the day on Wednesday as opposition parties carried out sloganeering and protests demanding the revocation of the suspension of the 12 Rajya Sabha MPs and a discussion on the Lakhimpur Kheri violence.The leaders of top opposition parties held another meeting - second in two days - on Wednesday to discuss the strategy to question the government during the ongoing winter session of Parliament. This comes a day after the opposition leaders held a similar meeting at the residence of Congress interim president Sonia Gandhi. On Tuesday, these leaders also held a protest march from Parliament to Vijay Chowk demanding the revocation of the suspension of 12 Rajya Sabha members for alleged unruly conduct towards the end of the monsoon session in August.The winter session of Parliament started on November 29 and will continue till December 23.Follow all the updates here:Rajya Sabha adjourned till tomorrowRajya Sabha has been adjourned till 11am on Thursday amid constant sloganeering as Opposition uproar continues demanding revocation of suspension of 12 MPs.‘Parliament building has become museum’: KC Venugopal“The government is not even allowing discussion on the Lakhimpur Kheri incident in the Parliament. The parliament building has become a museum... no debates, no discussion... Kerela CM Pinarayi Vijayan has the agenda to sabotage Congress, which is initiated by BJP,” says Congress General Secretary KC Venugopal.“It was an informal meeting with Sonia Gandhi yesterday. Due to covid restrictions, she is doing stage-wise meetings. More such meetings will take place,” he adds.Lok Sabha adjourned for the dayLok Sabha adjourned for the day amid continuous protests by opposition over Lakhimpur Kheri issue.Rajya Sabha adjourned for 15 minutesRajya Sabha has been adjourned for 15 minutes amid protest by opposition over the suspension of 12 MPs.Lok Sabha adjourned till 2pmThe Lok Sabha was adjourned till 2pm on Wednesday following protests by opposition partiesCongress MP Deepender Singh Hooda gives adjournment notice in Rajya Sabha over Lakhimpur Kheri incidentCongress MP Deepender Singh Hooda gives adjournment motion notice in Rajya Sabha over Lakhimpur Kheri incident and the SIT, probing the matter, saying that the killing of farmers was planned.Rahul Gandhi moves adjournment notice in Lok Sabha, demands removal of MoS Home over Lakhimpur Kheri violenceCongress MP Rahul Gandhi moves adjournment motion in Lok Sabha over Lakhimpur Kheri incident demanding removal of MoS Home Ajay Kumar Mishra pic.twitter.com/PZVFEbIx49Shiv Sena, IUML move privilege motions against Ranjan GogoiAfter TMC, Congress, SP, CPI(M) submitted privilege motions against Rajya Sabha MP Ranjan Gogoi, now Shiv Sena and IUML also move privilege motions against him on his remarks on attending the House.Congress MPs give adjournment notice in Lok SabhaCongress MP Manish Tewari gives adjournment motion notice in Lok Sabha to discuss "govt's attempts on weakening the Public Sector Banks (PSBs)"Congress Lok Sabha MPs to hold meeting at 10:30am in ParliamentCongress party has called a meeting of its Lok Sabha MPs today at 10.30 am at the CPP office in ParliamentOpposition MPs to hold another meeting todayAfter a meeting on Tuesday, Opposition leaders including Congress’s Mallikarjun Kharge and Nationalist Congress Party (NCP) chief Sharad Pawar, among others are expected to meet again today. The leaders may collectively urge Rajya Sabha Chairman Venkaiah Naidu to take the initiative to end the logjam in the Upper House over the suspension of 12 MPs.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/parliament-winter-session-2021-live-updates-opposition-mps-to-meet-again-today-101639535165507.html
15-12-2021||India||News updates from HT: SC to hear pleas regarding Mullaperiyar dam’s safety today and all the latest news||Here are today’s top news, analysis and opinion. Know all about the latest news and other news updates from Hindustan Times.Supreme Court to hear pleas pertaining to Mullaperiyar dam’s safety todayThe Supreme Court is set to hear on Wednesday a string of petitions which have raised safety concerns regarding the 126-year-old Mullaperiyar dam, a broiling operational dispute between the states of Kerala and Tamil Nadu. Read moreOn Vallabhbhai Patel's death anniversary, tributes pour in for ‘India’s unifier'Several Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) leaders and Union ministers paid homage to Sardar Vallabhbhai Patel on his 71st death anniversary on Wednesday. Read moreUsing Google Chrome browser? Govt has a warning. Here's how to fix issuesThe government has warned people who extensively use Google’s Chrome browser to surf the internet. Read more'If Rohit, Kohli don't play together..': Former World Cup winner warns of 'really serious' situation in Indian cricketSince Rohit Sharma was named the captain of the Indian team in white-ball format, the situation has been disorderly in and around Indian cricket. Read moreAnkita Lokhande winks at camera, calls herself Mrs Jain as she posts stunning pics from grand wedding with Vicky JainAnkita Lokhande and Vicky Jain got married on Tuesday. The two tied the knot in a lavish wedding ceremony and the nuptials were followed by a reception. Read moreFor Sonu Sood, the most comfortable chairs are...Sonu Sood keeps setting the fitness bar higher for us every time he shares snippets of his fitness routine. Read more'Need to...': Rajnath bats for hypersonic missiles for 'credible deterrence'Defence Minister Rajnath Singh bats for the development of hypersonic missiles to maintain credible deterrence. Singh's pitch for hypersonic missiles came months after China reportedly tested a hypersonic missile. Watch here||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/news-updates-from-ht-sc-to-hear-pleas-regarding-mullaperiyar-dam-s-safety-today-and-all-the-latest-news-101639537908024.html
15-12-2021||India||Fresh bird flu cases reported in Kerala's Kottayam, culling to begin today||Kerala has recorded more cases of bird flu, this time in Kottayam district. Three cases were reported in Vechur, Aymanam and Kallara panchayats in the district. The samples were sent to National Institute of High-Security Animal Disease in Bhopal where bird flu was found to be present.Local authorities said that culling of ducks and other birds will begin on Wednesday to contain the spread of the virus. They added that 25,000 birds will be culled.This is a fresh confirmation of avian flu in the southern state where ducks and other domesticated birds have been dying over the past few weeks.The state government sounded an alert in Alapuzha district last week after the state animal husbandry department confirmed bird flu (H5N1) in some samples.A total of 12,000 ducks were culled in ward number 10 of Thakazhi gram panchayat on Friday. The decision was taken after Alapuzha district collector chaired an emergency meeting and decided to intensify the actions to prevent the bird flu from spreading to other areas.A total of 140 samples were sent for test and 26 samples tested positive for bird flu.Endowed with many backwaters and water bodies, farmers rear a duck in a big way in Alapuzha, which results in cases of bird flu regularly. Birds from other countries are reportedly the carriers of the virus. In Alapuzha and neighbouring Kottayam, duck rearing is an important business, and there is high demand for eggs and meat of the water bird, generally priced higher than poultry.The district administration also banned the use and sale of eggs, meat and manure of ducks, chickens, quails and domestic birds in the affected areas. This restriction will be applicable in Champakulam, Nedumudi, Muttar, Viyapuram, Karuvatta, Thrikkunnapuzha, Thakazhi, Purakkad, Ambalapuzha South, Ambalapuzha North, Edathva panchayats and Harippad Municipality area.The local police were instructed to support these activities and to conduct surveillance in the area. The department of animal welfare will ensure the service of rapid response teams and bury the birds.Bird flu, also known as Avian Flu, is a variety of influenza caused by an airborne virus in birds. It can spread to humans in rare conditions, and if it happens, it can trigger a person to person transmission, experts said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/fresh-bird-flu-cases-reported-in-kerala-s-kottayam-culling-to-begin-today-101639538472387.html
15-12-2021||India||Indians named in Pandora Paper leaks under probe by group of agencies: Govt||The Centre told Parliament on Tuesday that a group of multiple agencies was investigating Indians alleged to have stashed wealth offshore as disclosed in the Pandora Papers leak in October this year. The finance ministry has also submitted information on the amount of undisclosed income recovered so far from Indians who were linked to hidden offshore accounts through similar leaks earlier, such as Panama and Paradise Papers.“Some Indian names have been released in the media which are allegedly linked to the Pandora Papers Leak. Government of India has taken cognizance of the same and for the purpose of coordinated and speedy investigation, brought the Pandora Papers Leak under the umbrella of Multi Agency group (MAG), which has been constituted under the convenorship of chairman, Central Board of Direct Taxes (CBDT), with Directorate of Enforcement (ED), Reserve Bank of India (RBI), Financial Intelligence Unit India (FIU) and Foreign Tax & Tax Research Division of CBDT as its members agencies,” said minister of state for finance, Pankaj Chaudhary.On October 3, the International Consortium of Investigative Journalists (ICIJ) leaked 11.9 million files which included names of politicians, businessmen and celebrities from more than 200 countries and territories. They are suspected of having stashed foreign exchange abroad and laundering it. The list contained names of over 300 Indians including top businessmen, sports icon and film stars among others. A couple of Indians have refuted the allegations of financial misconduct and said that their offshore accounts were legitimate. Also Read: How household incomes were affected by CovidOver the years, several Indians have been named in similar leaks such as HSBC, Panama and Paradise Papers that were released by groups of international journalists and whistle blowers. . The finance ministry told Parliament that in the year 2019-20, ₹10,370.47 crore of such undisclosed income was seized and in 2020-21, ₹4,145.42 crore was confiscated. “Total undisclosed credits amounting to ₹20,353 crore have been detected with respect to India linked entities in the Panama and Paradise Paper Leaks,” said Pankaj Chaudhary.Previously, the ministry announced that undisclosed credits of approximately ₹20,352 crore (as of September 15, 2021) have been detected in the investigations carried out in the Panama and Paradise Papers leaks.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/indians-in-pandora-paper-leaks-under-probe-by-group-of-multiple-agenciesgovt-101639539019037.html
15-12-2021||India||On Vallabhbhai Patel's death anniversary, tributes pour in for ‘India’s unifier'||Several Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) leaders and Union ministers paid homage to Sardar Vallabhbhai Patel on his 71st death anniversary on Wednesday. Sardar Patel passed away in 1950 in Mumbai (then Bombay) on December 15.“We will forever be grateful to Sardar Vallabhbhai Patel for his exemplary contribution to unite India. His leadership helped the country overcome communal strife. Humble tributes to the great leader on his death anniversary,” Union minister Pralhad Joshi said on Twitter.We will forever be grateful to Sardar Vallabhbhai Patel for his exemplary contribution to unite India. His leadership helped the country overcome communal strife. Humble tributes to the great leader on his death anniversary. #SardarVallabhbhaiPatel 🙏 pic.twitter.com/QTYQUf8Jv0Housing minister Hardeep Puri called Sardar Patel “a leading stalwart of India’s freedom movement”.“I pay homage to the iron willed architect & unifier of independent India, Bharat Ratna Sardar Vallabhbhai Patel Ji on his death anniversary. The Iron Man was a leading stalwart of India’s freedom movement who later guided India's integration into a modern nation,” Puri said in a tweet.I pay homage to the iron willed architect & unifier of independent India, Bharat Ratna Sardar Vallabhbhai Patel Ji on his death anniversary. The Iron Man was a leading stalwart of India’s freedom movement who later guided India's integration into a modern nation. pic.twitter.com/Spn8a0xMkhPopularly called as the ‘Iron Man of India’, Patel was a leader of the Congress party, a lawyer by profession and as the first home minister and deputy prime minister of India.He is credited largely with the unification of the princely states in India after independence from the British.“A stalwart of Independence Movement, Sardar Vallabhbhai Patel played a pivotal role in scripting India's destiny. As our 1st Dy PM & HM, he ensured that princely states joined the Union, fulfilling the dream of Ek Bharat, Shresth Bharat. Tributes to Patel ji on his punyatithi,” tweeted Assam chief minister Himanta Biswa Sarma.Born in Nadiad, Gujarat on October 31, 1875, Patel finished his schooling in his native city in the year 1897, following which he decided to pursue a course in Law.Patel was a prominent presence in all the protests and satyagrahas against the British, during which his association with Mahatma Gandhi began to grow. In his entire political career, Patel accepted the leadership and ways of Gandhi during the independence struggle.His birthday on October 31 is celebrated as National Unity day or Ekta Diwas to honour his contributions in unifying India.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/on-vallabhbhai-patel-s-death-anniversary-tributes-pour-in-for-india-s-unifier-101639536201361.html
15-12-2021||NA||Highlights: Goa minister Milind Naik resigns||Welcome to hindustantimes.com live updates platform where you can find breaking news from India and across the world. Find fast updates about the latest news as it breaks.Follow all the updates here:Goa minister Milind Naik resigns after Cong's allegations of sexual misconductGoa minister Milind Naik resigns after Congress's allegations of sexual misconduct against him. The Goa CM's office said in a statement that his resignation from the post of a minister to ensure “free and fair probe” has been accepted.RT-PCR test rates slashed at Mumbai airport, to cost ₹1,975 as opposed to ₹3,900The Maharashtra health department on Wednesday slashed the rates of RT-PCR tests at Mumbai aiport. From now on, one RT-PCR test will cost ₹1,975 as opposed to ₹3,900.Tamil Nadu confirms first case of Omicron Covid-19 variantTamil Nadu health minister M Subramanian has confirmed the first case of Omicron Covid-19 variant in the southern state.Kerala reports four fresh Omicron casesKerala has reported four new Omicron cases. With this, the state's tally climbed up to five.Maharashtra detects 4 new cases of Omicron variantMaharashtra detects four new cases of Omicron variant. Two cases are from Osmanabad district, one from Mumbai and one from Buldhana district.Rakesh Tikait welcomed by farmers in Meerut#WATCH | Farmers leader Rakesh Tikait was welcomed by farmers in Meerut upon his return from Delhi earlier today after the repeal of the three farm lawsHe said, "I'm not going to contest any election & no political party should use my name or photo in their posters." pic.twitter.com/9alTyzx11nFarmers leader Rakesh Tikait was welcomed by farmers in Meerut upon his return from Delhi earlier today after the repeal of the three farm lawsKolkata's Durga Puja inscribed on UNESCO's ‘Intangible Heritage list’📢Durga Puja in #Kolkata has just been inscribed on the #IntangibleHeritage list!Inscriptions to the Representative List are one of the several ways by which #UNESCO advocates the promotion and safeguarding of intangible cultural heritagehttps://t.co/rpVdNJgLIb #LivingHeritage pic.twitter.com/FBKiRaRbioKolkata's Durga Puja has been inscribed on the UNESCO's 'Intangible Heritage list'.RBI imposes penalty of ₹30 Lakh on ICICI BankThe Reserve Bank of India has imposed a penalty of ₹30 lakhs on ICICI Bank Ltd for non-compliance with its directions on ‘levy of penal charges on non-maintenance of minimum balances in savings bank accounts’, reports news agency ANI.Portion of Singhu border reopens for light vehiclesThe portion of NH-44 at Singhu border (Delhi-Haryana) that was shut for over a year due to farmers' protest reopened for light vehicles"The highway is still closed for heavy vehicles & the repair work is underway to reopen it completely," Sonipat DC Lalit Siwach said pic.twitter.com/CuhwOjV3CbThe portion of NH-44 at Singhu border (Delhi-Haryana) that was shut for over a year due to farmers' protest reopened for light vehicles. "The highway is still closed for heavy vehicles & the repair work is underway to reopen it completely," Sonipat DC Lalit Siwach said, according to news agency ANI.Ahead of UP polls, CM Yogi announces increase in monthly allowance of village pradhansAhead of assembly polls in Uttar Pradesh, chief minister Yogi Adityanath has announced increase in the monthly allowance of village pradhans and other panchayat representatives, people familiar with the development said on Wednesday.PM Modi to address ongoing summit on natural & zero-budget farming in Gujarat tomorrowPrime Minister Narendra Modi will on Thursday address the ongoing summit on natural and zero-budget farming being held in Gujarat, news agency ANI quoted Bharatiya Janata Party general secreatry Arun Singh as saying.Johnson & Johnson's Covid-19 vaccine can be used as a booster, reports AFPThe European Union regulator has said that Johnson & Johnson's Covid-19 vaccine can be used as a booster shot, reported news agency AFP.Uninterrupted supply of medical oxygen critical tackle the pandemic: Rajesh BhushanUnion Health Secretary Rajesh Bhushan today held a virtual meeting with States/UTs to review preparedness regarding medical oxygen.“Uninterrupted supply of medical oxygen in sufficient quantity is of critical importance to tackle the pandemic,” Bhushan said.Semi conductor chips will be designed, manufactured in India: Ashwini VaishnawUnion minister Ashwini Vaishnaw said that semi conductor chips will be designed, manufactured and developed in India. “Cabinet has approved budget for that,” people familair with the matter quoted Ashwini Vaishnaw as saying. Also readCabinet has sanctioned ambitious project to establish complete ecosystem of semiconductors: Anurag ThakurUnion minister Anurag Thakur on Wednesday said the Cabinet has sanctioned an ambitious project to establish a complete ecosystem of semiconductors and display manufacturing. He added, “ ₹76,000 crores will be spent on this project in 6 years.”Delhi CM Arvind Kejriwal holds Tiranga Yatra in Jalandhar#WATCH | Delhi CM and AAP national convener Arvind Kejriwal holds Tiranga Yatra in Jalandhar.#PunjabElection2022 pic.twitter.com/5zcZcBFOqbDelhi chief minister Arvind Kejriwal on Wednesday held a Tiranga Yatra in Jalandhar, ahead of the upcoming Punjab assembly election slated for 2022. West Bengal reports 1st case of Omicron variantWest Bengal has reported its first case of Omicron after a 7-year-old boy tested positive for the new coronavirus variant, PTI reported on Wednciting the state's health department.Omicron to be dominant variant by mid-January, reports AP citing EU officialEuropean Commission President Ursula von der Leyen said on Wednesday that Omicron is expected to be the dominant coronavirus variant in the 27-nation bloc by mid-January.3 Union ministers to brief cabinet at 3pmUnion ministers Anurag Singh Thakur, Ashwini Vaishnaw and Gajendra Singh Shekhawat will brief cabinet at 3pm at the National Media Centre in Delhi.PM Modi to participate in Homage and Reception Ceremony of Swarnim Vijay Mashaals at National War MemorialPrime Minister Narendra Modi will participate in Homage and Reception ceremony of Swarnim Vijay Mashaals at National War Memorial on 16 December: Prime Minister's OfficeMumbai NCB raids multiple locations after arrest of foreigner for smuggling narcoticsMumbai NCB raids underway at three places following the arrest of a foreign national for smuggling of narcotics, yesterday.At least 9 killed after bus falls into stream in Andhra Pradesh's West GodavariAt least 9 people have died after a bus fell into a stream in West Godavari district of Andhra Pradesh.PM Modi condoles Coonoor crash survivor Group Captain Varun Singh's demiseGroup Captain Varun Singh served the nation with pride, valour and utmost professionalism. I am extremely anguished by his passing away. His rich service to the nation will never be forgotten. Condolences to his family and friends. Om Shanti.Group Captain Varun Singh, sole survivor of IAF chopper crash, succumbs to injuries, informs IAF“IAF is deeply saddened to inform the passing away of braveheart Group Captain Varun Singh, who succumbed this morning to the injuries sustained in the helicopter accident on 08 Dec 21. IAF offers sincere condolences and stands firmly with the bereaved family,” the Indian Air Force said in a statement.Supreme Court junks Maharashtra's petition to make 2011 caste census publicSupreme Court junks Maharashtra government's petition to make public the 2011 caste census data. SC says it can't entertain a petition by the state when the Union Govt has maintained that the data is unusable and is fraught with mistakes.Calcutta HC refuses to stay upcoming municipal corporation electionsCalcutta High Court refuses to stay the upcoming Kolkata Municipal Corporation elections. It directs State Election Commission to discuss how quick the remaining elections could be undertaken on the tentative dates and within minimum phases. Next hearing on 23rd Dec. pic.twitter.com/09ACHUWeB5Our movement is suspended, not withdrawn: Tikait at Delhi-UP border“I am thankful to everyone who has been with us. I also extend my gratitude to the people who ran langars, villagers who brought essentials for us. Talks underway with the Centre after withdrawal of 3 farm laws. Our movement is suspended, not withdrawn,” BKU leader Rakesh Tikait tells news agency ANI.WATCH | Farmer celebrate as they leave protest site on Delhi-UP border#WATCH | Farmers celebrate as they leave their protest site Kaushambi (Delhi-UP border), after suspending their year-long protest against the 3 farm laws pic.twitter.com/8HhxOUjreDFarmers celebrate as they leave their protest site  in Kaushambi at the Delhi-UP border. The year-long protest was called off by the Samyukt Kisan Morcha (SKM) after the Centre revoked the three contentious farm laws on the first day of Parliament winter session.Finance minister Sitharaman to begin pre-Budget consultations with stakeholders todayUnion finance minister Nirmala Sitharaman will begin her pre-Budget consultations with different stakeholder groups from today with the first meeting with the experts of agriculture and agro-processing industry. The meetings will be held virtually.Watch | President Kovind leaves for Dhaka for Bangladesh's 50th Victory Day celebrations#WATCH | Delhi: President Ram Nath Kovind leaves for Dhaka for a state visit to Bangladesh. He will attend Bangladesh's 50th Victory Day celebrations as the guest of honour. pic.twitter.com/Zhs1SCBpwUPresident Ram Nath Kovind has left for Dhaka for a state visit to Bangladesh. He will attend Bangladesh's 50th Victory Day celebrations as the guest of honour.Anti-corruption raid at AIADMK minister's residence, offices in Tamil NaduDirectorate of Vigilance and Anti-corruption raid former AIADMK minister P Thangamani's residence and office at more than 60 places including Erode, Namakkal in Tamil Nadu.Fire breaks out at godown in Thane's Bhiwandi, fire tenders reach spotA fire broke out at the godown of a complex in Thane's Bhiwandi area, this morning. Four fire tenders rushed to the spot. No one injured, says Thane Municipal Corporation.US House passes bill to ban goods made with forced labour from China's Xinjiang, reports BloombergUS House of Representatives have passed bill approving approved Uyghur Forced Labor Prevention Act that economically sanctions goods made with forced labor from China’s Xinjiang and sold to the United States, Bloomberg reported.Barricades clear up at Delhi's Singhu border as farmers end year-long stirThe Delhi Police on Tuesday dismantled almost all barricades at the Singhu border that were erected to prevent the protesting farmers from moving towards the national capital. Farmers started leaving the protest site on the Delhi-Haryana border on Saturday after the Samyukt Kisan Morcha (SKM) suspended the agitation following the repeal of the Centre's three farm laws and the government conceding to its other demands.One terrorist killed in overnight encounter in J&K's Pulwama: PoliceOne unidentified terrorist has been neutralized in Pulwama, Jammu and Kashmir. The operation is underway. Details awaited, informed Kashmir Zone Police. An encounter broke out between security forces and terrorists in Rajpura area of Pulwama last night.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/breaking-news-updates-december-15-2021-101639533382145.html
15-12-2021||India||1 terrorist killed in Pulwama encounter, operation still on: Jammu and Kashmir Police||A terrorist was killed in an encounter with the security forces in Jammu and Kashmir's Pulwama early on Wednesday morning, the police said. The encounter broke out after midnight on Wednesday and is still continuing ."#PulwamaEncounterUpdate: 01 unidentified #terrorist killed. #Operation going on. Further details shall follow," the Kashmir Zone Police said on Twitter.#PulwamaEncounterUpdate: 01 unidentified #terrorist killed. #Operation going on. Further details shall follow. @JmuKmrPolice https://t.co/XPjIG6r859The encounter started between security forces and terrorists at Usgam Pathri in the Rajpura area of Pulwama on Wednesday.On Sunday, a Jaish-e-Mohammed (JeM) terrorist was killed in an encounter with security forces in Pulwama.Security forces launched a cordon and search operation in Baragam area of Awantipora in the south Kashmir district after specific inputs about the presence of terrorists there.The police said that during the search, the presence of the trapped militant was ascertained, and he was given ample opportunities to surrender.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/1-terrorist-killed-in-pulwama-encounter-operation-still-on-j-k-police-101639533524331.html
15-12-2021||India||Using Google Chrome browser? Govt has a warning. Here's how to fix issues||The government has warned people who extensively use Google’s Chrome browser to surf the internet. The ‘high severity’ warning has come from government’s Computer Emergency Response Team (CERT-In), which functions under Ministry of Electronics and Information Technology.In a report, CERT-In said that several vulnerabilities have been found in Chrome, which can be exploited by a cyber attacker to execute arbitrary code on users' system.According to CERT-In, the vulnerabilities have been found because of Type Confusion in V8. The watchdog has further said that the hackers may get access to personal data and also inject malware on a targeted computer.Google has already released a fix for these vulnerabilities in its latest update for Chrome and CERT-In has urged users to update their browser as soon as possible.The software giant said it has provided 22 types of security fixes to plug the loopholes and prevent hackers from taking control of users’ computers remotely and ensure privacy. These fixes were highlighted by “external researchers”, Google further said.The stable build of the widely user browser is 96.0.4664.93 for Windows, Mac and Linux, as announced by Google recently. The company also said that an “extended stable channel” will be rolled out for Windows and Mac in the coming weeks.How to update your Chrome browser:• Open the Google Chrome browser• On the top right corner, there are three tiny dots. Click on that• Bring the cursor down to Help, which will further show an option About Google Chrome• When clicked, the browser will show the build and start updating (if there is any update pending)• The user will be prompted to restart the Chrome browser. Doing do will launch the updated browser which will offer better protection against online attacksUsers can check the version of the Chrome browser in a similar way. They will have to click on the three dots and go to Help -> About Google Chrome.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/use-google-chrome-browser-govt-has-a-warning-here-s-how-to-fix-issues-101639531712288.html
15-12-2021||India||Supreme Court to hear pleas pertaining to Mullaperiyar dam’s safety today||The Supreme Court is set to hear on Wednesday a string of petitions which have raised safety concerns regarding the 126-year-old Mullaperiyar dam, a broiling operational dispute between the states of Kerala and Tamil Nadu.A bench of justices AM Khanwilkar and CT Ravikumar had last Friday adjourned the hearing to December 15 after senior advocate Shekhar Naphade informed the top court that the Tamil Nadu government will be requiring more time to file its reply to the fresh objections raised by Kerala.The Kerala government had earlier moved the Supreme Court seeking a direction to Tamil Nadu to not release a huge quantity of water in the wee hours from the spillway shutters of the century-old dam, saying it causes heavy damage to people living downstream.Also Read | Tamil Nadu opens shutters of Mullaperiyar dam angering Kerala; several areas inundatedIn this regard, Kerala also seeks the formation of a ‘joint technical on-site committee for spillway release’, comprising of two members each from both states. This panel shall decide on the quantity and time of surplus discharge through spillway shutters to ensure disaster management authorities receive a due warning, proposes Kerala.Tamil Nadu, on the other hand, maintains that there are no safety concerns regarding the Mullaperiyar dam, which is “hydrologically, structurally and seismically safe”. It instead blames a “social media campaign” initiated in Kerala that seeks to question the dam's safety in a bid to ‘harass’ Tamil Nadu.The Central Water Commission (CWC), said Tamil Nadu, has already fully assessed the safety concerns regarding the 126-year-old dam and endorsed the 142-feet water level. The safety concerns have also been supported by extensive reports of the expert committee and the empowered committee, it said. The pleas raising issues about the dam, which was built in 1895 on the Periyar river in Idukki district of Kerala, are now set to come up before the Supreme Court bench for hearing today. Before posting the matter for December 15, the court had earlier allowed parties ample time to file a response to fresh applications.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/supreme-court-to-hear-pleas-pertaining-to-mullaperiyar-dam-s-safety-today-101639528107641.html
15-12-2021||India||JP Nadda to visit Ayodhya today, first time after Supreme Court's Ram Janmabhoomi verdict||Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) president Jagat Prakash Nadda will visit Ayodhya in Uttar Pradesh on Wednesday. This is the first time that Nadda is going to Ayodhya after the Supreme Court’s landmark judgement in Ram Janmabhoomi case in 2019.He will be accompanied by chief ministers and deputy chief ministers from BJP-ruled states.The BJP chief is expected to perform puja at the famous Hanumangarhi temple and also take the blessings of Lord Ram.According to district officials, Nadda and other chief ministers will reach Ayodhya by 11am. They are in Lucknow after attending the inauguration of phase 1 of the newly-constructed Kashi Vishwanath Dham by Prime Minister Narendra Modi in Varanasi.Nadda and other leaders are likely to visit Hanumangarhi temple at around 2pm. They will then go to the Ram Janmabhoomi temple.Earlier on Tuesday, PM Modi chaired a meeting with chief ministers of BJP-ruled states in his parliamentary constituency Varanasi. Nadda was also present in the meeting.In November 2019, a five-judge bench of the Supreme Court had unanimously ruled in favour of Ram Lalla and said the entire disputed land spread over 2.7 acres will be handed over to a trust formed by the government, which will monitor the construction of a Ram temple at the site.The top court also added that an alternative five acres of land at a prominent location in Ayodhya should be allotted for the construction of a mosque following consultation between the Centre and the state government.On August 5, 2020, PM Modi laid the foundation stone for Ram Temple in Ayodhya.Meanwhile, assembly elections are scheduled to be held in Uttar Pradesh in early 2022.In the last elections in 2017, the BJP formed the government after winning 312 of the 403 seats. The Samajwadi Party (SP) bagged 47 seats, Bahujan Samaj Party (BSP) 19 and Congress only seven. The rest of the seats were bagged by other candidates.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/jp-nadda-to-visit-ayodhya-today-first-time-after-sc-s-ram-janmabhoomi-verdict-101639528198388.html
15-12-2021||India||Vaccine maker SII pledges $66 million to Oxford University||Vaccine maker Serum Institute of India (SII) has pledged 50 million pounds ($66.2 million) to the University of Oxford for setting up a research campus that would also house the institute behind the AstraZeneca-Oxford COVID-19 shot.The investment was made through the Indian company's Serum Life Sciences unit, Oxford University said on Wednesday. The research building would be named after Serum's billionaire owners, the Poonawalla family. The pledge builds on the collaboration between Oxford University, AstraZeneca and SII, the world's largest maker of vaccines and the producer of a version of the British duo's COVID-19 shot for low- and middle-income countries.SII has also agreed with the Jenner Institute, which was behind the Oxford-AstraZeneca COVID-19 vaccine, to produce and develop Jenner's R21/Matrix-M malaria shot on a large scale. The shot is currently in late-stage trials.SII was founded in 1966 in the Western Indian city of Pune by Cyrus Poonawalla, son of a horse breeder, and India's fifth-richest person, according to Forbes. In 2019, Cyrus was also conferred an honorary degree by Oxford University.It is currently run by his son Adar Poonawalla, whose wife Natasha Poonawalla heads Serum Life Sciences. With a penchant for luxury cars and racehorses, the pair is often seen rubbing shoulders with Hollywood and Bollywood stars.The Poonawallas in September invested  50 million pounds in Oxford Biomedica to help fund the development of a plant that manufactures COVID-19 shots.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/vaccine-maker-sii-pledges-66-million-to-oxford-university-101639527405431.html
15-12-2021||India||Last batch of farmers to leave UP Gate protest site at Ghazipur today||The farmers, who have been protesting at Delhi borders for more than a year, are expected to finally vacate the Uttar Pradesh border site (UP Gate) at Ghazipur on Wednesday morning. The other protest sites where farmers had gathered against Centre’s three farm laws were Singhu and Tikri borders.Watch: Aircraft showers flower petals as farmers return homeWhile the barricades at Singhu border were almost dismantled was cleared on Tuesday, the Ghazipur protest site is expected to be cleared today.Another police officer said the roads have been cleared for commuters at the Tikri border (on Rohtak Road) and traffic is plying on the stretch.Some farmers are still at Ghazipur due to which barriers are still there, according to Delhi Police.However, farmer leaders said only a small batch of protesters remain at the Ghazipur protest site.“The other farmers have moved out, and the last batch will leave UP Gate on Wednesday morning. Rakesh Tikait will lead the last batch in a car, and the group will take the Hindon elevated road and then proceed on the Delhi Meerut Road towards Sisoli (Muzaffarnagar district)," Gaurav Tikait, president of Bharatiya Kisan Union's (BKU) youth wing, said on Tuesday.After the farmers leave the site, the officials of National Highways Authority of India (NHAI) will inspect the road to assess any damage to the infrastructure. However, there is no word on when the carriageway on the expressway will open for traffic.The farmers began leaving the protest sites after the Samyukt Kisan Morcha (SKM) - an umbrella organization of farmer bodies - suspended the agitation following the repeal of the Centre's three farm laws and the government conceding to its other demands.The farm laws were repealed by Parliament on November 29.Also Read | 13-month movement is training for farmers, says TikaitThe protest sites became a second home for the farmers - mainly from Punjab and Haryana - who lived in tents there. Langars (community kitchens) were organized and many of the protesters’ family members too joined them.The farmers had on November 26 last year had laid siege also on the Tikri and Ghazipur borders of Delhi to protest against the three laws and demand their repeal.That demand was accepted when Prime Minister Narendra Modi, while addressing the nation on November 19, announced that the three contentious laws will be repealed. The Union Cabinet swiftly cleared the bill to repeal the three laws, which was subsequently passed by Parliament on November 29.A few days later, the Centre agreed to the pending demands of the farmers, including those on minimum support price (MSP) and police cases.The three controversial farm laws were: The Farmers' Produce Trade and Commerce (Promotion and Facilitation) Act, 2020, the Farmers' (Empowerment and Protection) Agreement on Price Assurance and the Farm Services Act, 2020 and the Essential Commodities (Amendment) Act, 2020.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/last-batch-of-farmers-to-leave-up-gate-protest-site-at-ghazipur-today-101639526235327.html
15-12-2021||India||How household incomes were affected by Covid||In 49 days from now, finance minister Nirmala Sitharaman will present the Union Budget. As the budget preparations are underway, there are mixed signals on the economy. At 8.4%, GDP growth in the quarter ending September exceeded estimates. However, other indicators such as RBI’s Consumer Confidence Index are still in red. Even the private consumption component of GDP remains below pre-pandemic levels. What these numbers suggest is that the post-pandemic recovery has been uneven.What is the actual state of the economy? One way to answer this question is to look at the numbers from the Consumer Pyramid Household Survey (CPHS) to track the pandemic’s impact.CPHS is a high-frequency, large-scale, nationally representative survey of close to 200,000 households and, currently, the only dataset that allows us to track income changes on a monthly level for India. While data on indicators such as employment is available until August, income data from CPHS is available until June 2021. This means that currently the CPHS allows us to track the income impact of both the waves of the pandemic and the recovery after the first one, but not the recovery after the second wave.This two-part series will track this impact and recovery. The first part will track the pandemic’s impact on income of rich and poor households from rural and urban areas.Second wave’s shock came before people recovered from the first wave’s impactThe intensity and spread of the pandemic itself varied for different regions at different points in time. Consequently, we study the impact and recovery in terms of the imposition of lockdowns. April 2020 was the first full month of the nationwide lockdown, and the time when economic parameters were the worst affected. The first lockdown was eased substantially starting June 2020, and the economy began to open up. There was a gap of roughly nine months between the end of the first wave and the coming of the second wave (June 2020 to February 2021). In the first wave, the average all-India monthly per capita household income fell by 44% between February 2020 and April 2020. There was a near-complete recovery in incomes by January 2021 – with per capita household incomes a mere 3% lower than the pre-pandemic level (February 2020). However, the impact of the second wave began being felt from February 2021, and incomes started falling again before a full recovery could be achieved. All-India per capita incomes fell by 19% over the second wave between January and May this year, with incomes in May continuing to remain 22% lower than pre-pandemic levels. Economic indicators such as income and employment were the worst affected in May 2021, beyond which recovery started. While the impact of the first wave was felt more acutely in urban areas, that of the second wave was more adverse in rural areas.The poor were affected disproportionately moreThe pandemic impacted incomes in a regressive manner. Poorer households were impacted more, suffering a sharper drop in their incomes as compared to richer ones. During the first wave of the pandemic, the top quartile (top 25%) of the all-India population suffered the least with average monthly incomes dropping by 33% between February and April 2020. The corresponding drop in incomes for the remaining three-quartiles of the population was 46% on average.The fall in incomes during the first wave was more pronounced in the urban sector, and spread monotonically over the distribution – the drop was the highest for the bottom quartile, followed by the second, followed by the third, and the least for the top quartile. Individuals belonging to households in the bottom quarter of the urban population saw an income drop of 57% between February and April 2020, while those in the top quartile suffered a drop of 40%.Recovery was sharper for the poorBefore the coming of the second wave in February 2021, income recovery was sharpest for individuals from households in the bottom quartile, and the least for those from the top quartile. To be sure, in absolute terms the latter’s incomes were more than three times higher that of the former. By January this year, incomes for the bottom two quartiles (bottom 50%) had recovered fully, i.e., gone back to pre-pandemic levels; while those for the top two quartiles continued to remain 5-6% below pre-pandemic levels. Urban incomes experienced a slower recovery.
15-12-2021||India||Farmers to vacate Ghazipur site today||Rakesh Tikait, the national spokesperson of the Bharatiya Kisan Union (BKU), and one of the key leaders of the farmers’ agitation against the three contentious farm laws, will lead the last batch of protesters at Ghazipur border on Wednesday morning, capping a more than a year-long protest on the eastern border of the Capital where a teary eyed Tikait rejuvenated the agitation after the violence during a tractor rally on Republic Day.“The other farmers have moved out, and the last batch will leave UP Gate on Wednesday morning. Rakesh Tikait will lead the last batch in a car, and the group will take the Hindon elevated road and then proceed on the Delhi Meerut Road towards Sisoli (Muzaffarnagar district). Midway, there will be group of farmers who will be waiting on roads to meet the last batch of farmers returning home,” said Gaurav Tikait, president of BKU’s youth wing, on Tuesday.Tikait, along with his hundreds of supporters, reached the UP Gate border on the Delhi Meerut Expressway on November 28 last year. He is expected to return from Punjab late Tuesday night, and perform a ‘havan’ on Wednesday morning before leaving for Sisoli.The protest was called off after Prime Minister Narendra Modi announced on November 19 that his government would abandon the contentious laws, and Parliament repealed them on November 29.The Samyukta Kisan Morcha (SKM) signed off on a final letter from the Centre on December 9, that contained key steps forward.After the agitation was called off on December 9, Tikait then said that he will be the last one to leave the protest site. As the farmers continued returning from borders of Delhi, Tikait has been attending several programmes in Punjab and Chandigarh.The BKU on Monday described the Wednesday’s morning event as “Fateh March”, and added that it will go through Modinagar, Khatauli and Mansoorpur to Sisoli.Rajbir Singh, state vice-president of BKU, said there were about 200 farmers at UP Gate who will leave with Tikait on Wednesday. “It is expected that the gathering will swell, as many people may come and meet the farmers. We have started dismantling the remaining tents at the UP Gate,” he said.The UP Gate was named by farmers as ’Kisan Kranti Gate’ in October, 2018 when hundreds of farmers clashed with the Delhi Police following their march from Haridwar in support of several demands such as a blanket loan waiver, revocation of National Green Tribunal (NGT) ban on 10-year-old diesel run tractors in NCR, reduction in electricity tariff, implementation of MS Swaminathan Commission recommendation on remunerative prices and payment of sugarcane arrears among others.Ever since the farmers have started moving out, teams of different agencies such as the National Highways Authority of India are inspecting the expressway stretch to ascertain any damage to the road infrastructure.“We have made elaborate police arrangements at various points on the Delhi Meerut road, and we will ensure that there is no inconvenience caused to commuters when farmers return home from UP Gate on Wednesday,” said Irja Raja, superintendent of police (rural).There was no word on when the carriageway on the expressway will open for traffic.
15-12-2021||India||Sikkim cardiologist tried to rescue hospital staffer in knife attack, stabbed||SILIGURI: A doctor and a female sanitation worker were injured in a knife attack allegedly by a 42-year-old man inside the Sikkim government-run New STNM Hospital at Gangtok on Monday afternoon, police said.The victims are in serious condition and undergoing treatment at the hospital. The attacker has been arrested.Witnesses said the doctor was stabbed when he tried to help the woman who appeared to be the attacker’s primary target.BK Tamang, deputy inspector general and spokesperson of Sikkim Police, said: “The attacker first stabbed Kala Chhetri, a safai karmachari, multiple times and then stabbed Sanjay Upreti, a doctor from the cardiology department.”Police suspect the attacker, identified as Thinley Bhutia, has a personal grudge against the woman, Tamang added.Chief minister PS Tamang expressed shock on the incident.“The murderous attack is highly condemnable. The attacker has been arrested. We will ensure that he gets stringent punishment,” he said.Eyewitnesses said it was lunchtime when the attacker appeared on the fourth-floor corridor and started shouting. “The man suddenly attacked the safai karmachari with a knife. She landed on the floor in a pool of blood. The man attacked the doctor when he tried to rescue the woman and ran away,” said a nurse who did not want to be identified.“I never saw this man inside the hospital in the past,” the nurse added.
15-12-2021||India||Tamil Nadu: Brand ‘Amma’ in a fix under DMK’s tenure||The flagship Amma Canteens have withstood several challenges, including the Covid-19 pandemic, since the death of former Tamil Nadu chief minister J Jayalalithaa, after whom the food service was named. However, the ruling Dravida Munnetra Kazhagam’s (DMK) announcement to launch 500 ‘Kalaignar’ canteens, named after late leader M Karunanidhi, the Amma Canteens have been under serious threat.Many of products named after Jayalalithaa (her cadre call her Amma, which means mother in Tamil) such as Amma pharmacies, Amma clinics, Amma cement, Amma water are under the scanner after the DMK formed the government in May as Tamil Nadu’s history shows both the Dravidian parties have struck down each other’s schemes after coming to power. Though the DMK ensured that they do not want to meddle with the Amma Canteens, and even removed party cadre who attempted to vandalise these canteens soon after they came to power, the story inside is quite different, with women from self-help groups, who run the canteens, experiencing indirect pressure to quit. “We were 13 people working in this canteen in the morning and evening shift together, and five people have been shown the door now,” said a woman worker, who has been working in a Chennai canteen for 6 years and didn’t want to be identified. “They have cut down on the staff strength and our salaries. We used to earn a monthly salary of ₹9000 and in the past two months they have cut it down to ₹5,700. When we asked the canteen authorities about this, they said that it was due to sales being down.” A senior official of the Greater Chennai Corporation who did not wish to be identified admitted that they have had a man-power restoration. “We have not put anyone out of jobs. In some canteens, there are excess staff like 20 people and there isn’t work commensurate for that. We have only moved them to other canteens where more people are required because we are setting a benchmark for how many people are required in a canteen depending on its sales,” the official said. “The overall sales have not dropped. But in certain canteens where the work is less because sales are less, the number of working days are reduced and they are paid a wage per day. We have not cut their salaries.” The worker quoted above said that her working days have been reduced to 18 days from 30 days and they are paid ₹300 per day. The number of employees in each canteen is dynamic ranging between 12 and 25.Chennai presently runs 403 canteens. “None of the canteens have been closed. Daily about 1.75 lakh people visit the canteens. And our daily sales is approximately ₹5.75 lakhs,” the official said. According to the state government, around ₹3.5 lakh is being spent per month to run a kitchen in the Amma canteen. From June this year up to November 18, more than 20.15 million people have been patrons of the Amma canteens. Amma canteens provide one idly for ₹1, pongal for ₹5, variety rice (sambar rice, curry leaves rice and lemon rice) for ₹5 a plate and curd rice for ₹3; for dinner two 2 chapatis with dal are priced at ₹3. Women from self-help groups are employed in these canteens. The canteens also provide food for free during floods and Covid-19 lockdown. Chief minister M K Stalin announced earlier this month to offer free food until the end of the northeast monsoon season that flooded several parts of Tamil Nadu. Officials from Egypt, Rajasthan, Karnataka, Delhi, Gujarat and Maharashtra have visited Amma canteens in Chennai in the past to emulate the pro-poor scheme in their states. So, when the DMK announced 500 more Kalaignar canteens, opposition leader AIADMK’s O Panneerselvam was quick to react that this was an attempt to overshadow the Amma canteens. To be sure, the government has said that both will co-exist and that Kalaignar canteens will look to cover places where there are no Amma canteens. However, the AIADMK and its faction Amma Makkal Munnetra Kazhagam (AMMK), led by expelled leader V K Sasikala’s nephew TTV Dhinakaran with her supporters, have been accusing the DMK of trying to halt these schemes. The ruling party has refuted it all. The former chief minister and current leader of opposition Edappadi Palaniswami in November accused the DMK government of destroying and “destabilising Amma brand of schemes” and he added that there were reports of winding up of Amma pharmacies that has been helping the public to avail medicines at a discounted price. In response, the state’s cooperative societies department, which runs the pharmacy outlets, said that they have increased the number of Amma Pharmacy outlets from 126 to 131. The department said that they have not shut any pharmacy after assuming charge and that it’s a ‘wrong allegation’. The 131 Amma Pharmacies have sold medicines to the tune of ₹44.88 crores in the current fiscal up to October 31, said the officials. Besides this, the state also runs 174 cooperative medical stores where poor people can avail 20% discount. Just a few days ahead of this controversy, Tamil Nadu chief minister M K Stalin launched a new brand of cement named Valimai (strength), to be manufactured by the Tamil Nadu Cements Corporation (TANCEM) at a subsidised rate. Valimai is the second brand from TANCEM, which has been selling cement under the name Arasu. The previous AIADMK regime launched Amma cement. “Arasu cement was named as Amma cement, and it will be there,” clarified industries minister Thangam Thennarasu at that time. 
15-12-2021||India||Issue voter IDs, ration cards to sex workers: Top court to govts||Authorities must “immediately” issue ration cards, voter identity cards and Aadhaar numbers to sex workers so that they can receive benefits of social welfare schemes, the Supreme Court directed on Tuesday.“It is the bounden duty of the state to provide basic amenities to the citizens of this country... fundamental rights are guaranteed to every citizen irrespective of vocation,” said a bench headed by justice L Nageswara Rao, as it ordered the central and state governments to begin the process of issuing an array of identity documents and numbers to sex workers across the country.The bench, which included justices BR Gavai and BV Nagarathna, said the identity cards have to be given to sex workers from the list maintained by the National AIDS Control Organisation.“Authorities can take the assistance of state AIDS control societies, which are directed to prepare a list of sex workers, after verifying the information provided to them by community-based organisations,”stated the court in its order.During the proceedings, the top court lamented that although its direction regarding issuance of ration cards and voter IDs was issued in 2011, no progress was made. “The state governments and UTs were directed to issue ration cards and identity cards to sex workers almost a decade back and there is no reason as to why such directions are not implemented till now,” rued the bench, citing its previous judgment.The court also clarified that states shall continue giving dry ration to sex workers without insisting on identity cards.“In the meanwhile, state governments and UTs are directed to continue distribution of dry ration to sex workers without insisting on ration cards...,” the court said.
15-12-2021||India||Another BJD leader in Odisha faces opposition heat over a murder case||BHUBANESWAR: Odisha’s Naveen Patnaik government found itself under renewed attacks from the opposition Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) after the family of a security guard assigned with Odisha planning board vice chairman Sanjay Kumar Das Burma blamed the Biju Janata Dal (BJD) politician for his death, a charge promptly denied by the politician.The body of 22-year-old security guard, Chittaranjan Palai, was found floating in Nuanai river in Puri district on December 13 afternoon, two days after he had gone missing after attending a function organised by an aide of Sanjay Kumar Das Burma on December 11 night. Police said there were multiple injury marks on the body.Chittaranjan Palai’s mother and wife have alleged that a close associate of the BJD leader, identified by them as Jaga, killed the guard. His wife, Priyanka Nayak, has demanded that Das Burma and Jaga should be investigated by the police for the security guard’s death.“I want the police to interrogate Das Burma too. They both have conspired to kill my husband,” she alleged.BJD leader Das Burma refuted the allegations and stressed hat he too has backed a fair police probe. He said he has requested the Puri superintendent of police (SP) to conduct an impartial probe.Puri SP Kanwar Vishal Singh said family members of the deceased youth met him to seek a probe by CID. “We are examining the demand. The police investigation is on and we have formed an SIT. This is a sensitive case. Nothing can be divulged at this juncture,” said Singh.Sanjay Kumar Das Burma’s rival and BJP MLA from Brahmagiri in Puri district, Lalitendua Bidyadhar Mohapatrra has demanded that the chief minister immediately expel the BJD leader from the party.”Mohapatra also said Das Burma was being extended privileges due to his position in the ruling BJD government. “He should resign from the position of vice chairman of the State Planning Board as soon as possible in the interest of fair investigation,” said Mohapatra.The ruling BJD government has already been targeted by the BJP over the state’s junior home minister Dibya Shankar Mishra and law minister Pratap Jena.Opposition parties have demanded that chief minister Naveen Patnaik drop Dibya Shankar Mishra from his council of ministers over his alleged proximity with Gobind Sahu, the main accused in the murder of Kalahandi school teacher Mamita Meher on October 8.Patnaik has already rejected the demand from opposition leaders who have disrupted Odisha assembly proceedings, underlining that there was no evidence to tie the minister to any crime.Law minister Pratap Jena was also targeted by the BJP over the murder of two local BJP leaders in Salipur area of Cuttack district in January this year.On January 2 this year, Kulamani Baral, 75, in-charge of Salepur mandal of BJP and former chairman of Mahanga panchayat Samiti and Dibyasingh Baral, 80, were hacked to death near Jankoti village of Cuttack district when they were coming home on a motorcycle. Kulamani Baral’s son alleged the minister was involved in the murder but the police did not find any evidence to back up the charge. A Cuttack court recently ordered the police to re-investigate the case and submit call data records of 3 aides of the minister.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/another-bjd-leader-in-odisha-faces-opposition-heat-over-a-murder-case-101639509481684.html
15-12-2021||India||Excess representation against democracy: SC on OBC quota in Maha polls||Excess representation is the antithesis of democratic values, the Supreme Court observed on Tuesday, as the central government maintained the 2011 caste census was “unusable” for official purposes because of grave “inaccuracies” and cannot form the basis for reservations in admissions, promotions or local body elections.“Excess representation is also antithesis to democratic value,” remarked a bench of justices AM Khanwilkar and CT Ravikumar as the Maharashtra government pressed for reserving adequate seats in zila parishads and panchayat samitis for other backward classes (OBCs).On December 6, the bench stayed the Maharashtra government’s ordinance through which the state sought to introduce 27% reservation for OBCs in all zilla parishads and panchayat samitis without collecting data on OBCs in every municipal body seat.“Your political compulsions cannot be the basis to undo our judgment,” the bench had remarked.The hearing on Tuesday started with solicitor general Tushar Mehta, who appears for the Centre, emphasising that the Socio-Economic and Caste Census (SECC), 2011, was not made public as it was found to be flawed, and was bound to mislead. “No reliance can be placed on the SECC 2011, not only for reservation but also for employment, education or any other purpose,” he said.Reading out from the affidavit filed by the Centre in September, Mehta said that either due to the mistakes by enumerators, inherent flaws in the manner of conducting census, and several such other factors, there is no dependable caste-based census data available that can be the basis of a constitutional or statutory exercise like reservations in admissions, promotions or local body polls.The central government “fully supports” reservation for OBC, but the exercise will have to be in line with the verdict of the Constitution bench that had laid down triple conditions, including setting up a dedicated commission to conduct a contemporaneous rigorous empirical inquiry into the nature and implications of the backwardness with respect to local bodies within a state, he said.During the hearing, at one point, the bench observed that one can go ahead with the reservation for OBC only if they comply with the triple test as mentioned in the Constitution bench verdict of 2010, and also the judgement delivered later by a three-judge bench in March. The hearing will resume on Wednesday.
15-12-2021||India||Cop injured in Kashmir terror attack succumbs to injuries, toll rises to 3||The death toll in the terrorist attack on a police bus in Jammu and Kashmir’s Zewan area rose to three on Tuesday after another cop succumbed to injuries, officials said.As many as 14 cops were injured after the bus carrying at least 24 officials of the 9th battalion of Jammu and Kashmir Indian Reserve Police Battalion came under fire from terrorists in Zewan’s Pantha Chowk area at 6.50pm on Monday. The officials were deployed in Srinagar city and were returning to the headquarters when the attack took place.While two policemen died on Monday, the third succumbed to his injuries during treatment on Tuesday morning. The deceased was identified as constable Rameez Ahmad of Ganderbal. The other deceased were assistant sub inspector Ghulam Hassan and constable Shafeeq Ali. Citing “credible sources”, Kashmir inspector general of police (IGP) Vijay Kumar earlier said that the attack was carried out by Kashmir Tigers, an offshoot of the Pakistan-based terror outfit, Jaish-e-Mohammed (JeM).Speaking to reporters on the sidelines of the wreath-laying ceremony here on Tuesday, IGP Kumar said, “Three terrorists, including two foreign ones, were responsible for the attack. One of the terrorist was injured in the retaliatory firing. The attackers fled towards Pampore and Tral, and we will soon neutralise them,” he said. “The terrorists attacked the police bus after the Road Opening Party (RoP), that secures roads through which convoys pass during a particular time of a day, withdrew from the area. The area was dark and the terrorists took advantage of that. We are taking all preventive measures. The RoP duties will be extended and bulletproof vehicles will be deployed,” he added. The IGP also said that it appeared as though the terrorists must have recce the area before the attack.Following the attack, security around forces’ installations have been stepped up, officials said. Monday’s attack came days after two policemen were killed in an attack in Kashmir’s Bandipora district on December 10.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/cop-injured-in-kashmir-terror-attack-succumbs-to-injuries-toll-rises-to-3-101639509182068.html
15-12-2021||India||BJP falls short of majority in Karnataka MLC polls, Congress bags 11 seats||The ruling Bharatiya Janata Party in Karnataka on Tuesday suffered a setback in the Legislative Council elections as it bagged just 11 seats out of the total 25 seats, falling short of the majority. The main opposition Congress also won 11 seats. The Janata Dal (Secular) suffered a minor rout, winning just two seats, while an Independent candidate won from Belgaum, defeating the BJP rival.With these results, the BJP’s strength in the 75-member Council has gone up from 32 to 37, while the majority mark is 38. The Congress’ tally dipped from 29 to 26, and the JD(S)’ numbers came down from 12 to 11.The BJP managed to secure victories in Chikmagalur, Gulbarga and Vijayapura seats by a narrow margin where the Congress and an Independent candidate had put up a spirited fight.The Congress winning candidates include Channaraja Basavaraja Hattiholi (Belagavi), S. Ravi (Bengaluru Rural), Bhimarao B. Patil (Bidar), Sunilgouda Patil (Bijapura-Bagalakote), Manjunatha Bhandary (Dakshina Kannada), Saleem Ahmed (Hubli-Dharwad-Gadag-Haveri), M.L. Anil Kumar (Kolar), M.G. Gooligowda (Mandya), Dr D. Thimmaiah (Mysore-Chamaranagara), Saranagouda Annadana Gouda Patil (Raichur) and R. Rajendra (Tumkur).Suraj Revanna from the Janata Dal (Secular) or JD(S) supremo, on Tuesday, became the eighth member of former Prime Minister HD Deve Gowda family to enter electoral politics as he was all set to be elected to the upper house of the Karnataka legislature. Suraj is the elder son of Gowda’s son and former minister, HD Revanna.Suraj’s younger brother is a member of parliament from Hassan, his mother was a former Zilla Panchayat member who is likely to seek reelection in the yet-to-be-announced local body polls early next year.Gowda’s other son, HD Kumaraswamy, was the former chief minister of Karnataka and is the JD(S) legislator from Channapatana. Kumaraswamy’s wife is the legislator from Ramanagara, and their actor son, Nikhil, unsuccessfully contested the 2019 Lok Sabha elections from Mandya, a stronghold of the regional party.The MLC polls were conducted on December 10 for 25 seats in the 75-member upper house of the state legislature. The Basavaraj Bommai-led BJP government was hoping for a big win to overcome the loss it faced in the October 30 bypolls in Hanagal. The defeat at the hands of the Congress dealt a big blow to Bommai, who is from the adjoining Shiggaon constituency in Haveri district that had fueled speculation of a growing divide within the saffron outfit.Bommai was trying to secure control of the upper house to cement his position as the head of the government, which was hotly contested by members of his party who nurse the feeling of neglect for being overlooked to replace BS Yediyurappa in July this year.The results would also help Congress determine if they have any electoral advantages against the BJP’s juggernaut in upcoming polls like Zilla and taluka panchayat, Bruhat Bengaluru Mahanagara Palike (BBMP, the city’s civic body) and the 2023 assembly elections.The JD (S) has found it hard to bounce back since it was reduced to just one out of the 28 seats in the 2019 Lok Sabha elections. The regional outfit has allowed its local leaders to ally with any party they think would “benefit the JD(S)”--tacitly extending support to the BJP as both parties consider the Congress as the “common enemy”.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/bjpfalls-short-of-majority-in-karnataka-mlc-polls-congress-bags-11-seats-101639509064053.html
15-12-2021||India||Leaders recall service, sacrifice as Akali Dal marks its 100 years||The Shiromani Akali Dal (SAD) marked its centennial commemoration day with a grand rally in Punjab’s Moga district on Tuesday, highlighting the party’s storied history in affirming federalism and securing farmers’ rights.At the rally held months before the assembly elections in Punjab, the SAD called for the formation of a joint front of regional parties to espouse the cause of federalism nationally. Leaders also recalled the party’s rich history, and sacrifice, in fighting for “Panth, Punjab, Punjabis and Punjabiyat”.Former five-time CM Parkash Singh Badal said the SAD was the first party to raise the voice of federalism, and always fought for the rights of the oppressed.“Now all regional parties are also calling for strengthening federal rights. We are committing to strengthen federal nature of the country”, he declared. “It is time to recall the contributions and sacrifices made by Akalis for the quom (community) and Punjab,” said the 94-year-old leader.His son and party chief Sukhbir Singh Badal said the SAD – the oldest regional political party – was often called “shaheedan da jatha” (band of martyrs) for its commitment to the struggle for the rights of the poor and peasants.That tradition of struggle continued till date, he added.“From holding ‘chabian da morcha’, a campaign for the recovery of the keys of the Sri Harmandir Sahib treasury in the early 1920s to the national Emergency and the recent farmers’ agitation, Akalis have always fought from the front. There is no other political front in the country that could match sacrifices made by the Akalis,” he added.The grand stage prominently displayed pictures of former heads of the party. Other prominent leaders present were former Union minister Harsimrat Kaur Badal, Rajya Sabha MP Naresh Gujral, and Shiromani Gurudwara Prabhandhak Committee chief Harjinder Singh Dhami, and Bahujan Samaj Party leader Satish Mishra. SAD has tied up with the BSP for the 2022 state polls.Selfless serviceThe Akali leadership revived the party’s commitment to work on the Anandpur Sahib Resolution, first drafted in 1973, to achieve greater autonomy to states.“Celebrating 100 years of ‘nirswarth seva (selfless service),’balidan (sacrifice) and sangharsh (struggle) to preserve the pride and honour of Panth, Punjab, Punjabis and Punjabiyat. These are our core values and we are committed to following the same path for peace, progress and prosperity of Punjab,” the SAD said in a tweet.Making a poll pitch, Sukhbir Singh Badal promised ₹50,000 per acre compensation for crop damage, restoration of old pension scheme for government employees and free power for all religious places if the SAD-BSP alliance comes to power in Punjab next year. He said even after 55 years of its bifurcation, Punjab still hadn’t got back Punjabi-speaking areas from Haryana. “Akalis spearheaded the movement of Punjabi Suba to meet aspirations of Punjabis. Respective central governments crushed the federal spirit but the party is committed to fighting it back,” he added.Parkash Singh Badal exuded confidence that in the coming assembly elections, the SAD-BSP alliance will repeat their performance in the 1996 polls. “In 1996, BSP supremo Kanshi Ram and Akalis fought Lok Sabha elections together and won 11 out of 13 seats in Punjab. The alliance will perform again. But we will have to fight against Congress government of Punjab, BJP-led Centre and the AAP to protect interests of Punjabis,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/leaders-recall-service-sacrifice-as-shiromani-akali-dal-marks-its-100-years-101639508897806.html
15-12-2021||India||Uneasiness shrouds Christian community in Karnataka after recent attacks||The recent incident of a man barging into a church with a machete in his hand and the burning of some Christian religious books by right-wing groups have intensified fears and sense of insecurity among Christians in Karnataka, members of the community said.The police have clarified that the man was drunk, and that the Bible was not burnt, but there is a clear nervousness among Christians in the city. Father Francis D’Souza, parish priest of St Joseph in Belagavi’s Bauxite Road, was leaving the premises at around 2 pm, to return to his house adjacent to the church, on Saturday when he saw a man approaching him with a machete. In a video of the incident that went viral on social media, the man is seen following and chasing the priest for some time before fleeing the spot. “The church has been here for the past 30 years and I have been here for the last five years but it is for the first time that an incident like this has taken place,” said Father D’Souza. “I am still scared and the situation here continues to remain tense,” he added. Police from APMC station, about 3 km away from the church, were informed about the incident following which the accused, later identified as Mohammed Nizam Phulwale, was nabbed . He was in an inebriated state and entered the church “without motive”, police said. “He doesn’t even remember what he did and there was no motive behind the attack,” a police official from APMC station said, seeking anonymity. However, speculation is abuzz that the accused was provoked by some anti-social elements . The incident prompted the church to step up security measures such as fixing all dysfunctional CCTVs in the premises. On the same day, members of right-ring groups set ablaze Christian religious books alleging religious conversion by the church in Srinivaspur town of Kolar district, about 65 km from Bengaluru. Police later clarified that the Bible, the holy book of the Christians, was not among the items that were set on fire by the right-wing members. If Christians are worried it’s because of a November incident when members of the Bajrang Dal barged into a prayer hall and stopping a service midway in Hassan district, and a September one in Udupi where right-wing allegedly attacked devotees while a prayer meeting was underway in a hall. A fact finding report by several civil society organisations earlier this month claimed that Karnataka was witnessing one of the highest incidents of attack against Christians. The report by United Christian Forum (UCF), Association for Protection of Civil Rights (APCR), and United Against Hate also claimed that Karnataka ranks third among states with the most number of attacks on the community and their places of worship in India.The spate of attacks on Christians and churches also come at a time the Basavaraj Bommai-led government is determined to pass an anti-conversion bill during the winter session of the state legislature in Belagavi which commenced on Monday.On Sunday, chief minister Bommai hinted that the draft of the anti-conversion bill would be approved by the state cabinet and it may be introduced in the session. Claiming that religious conversion was not good for the society, Bommai said the downtrodden people should not succumb to it.The chief minister, however, clarified that people of all religious communities need not panic with respect to the anti-conversion law. “Hindus, Christians, Muslims and Sikhs are the faiths recognised by the Constitution and there is no problem for people to pray or follow their respective religions. However, there is no scope for misusing someone’s poverty to lure them to change their faith,” he said. Pastor Thomas Johnson said the proposed bill and attacks were part of the “ tactics” of the Bharatiya Janata Party. “First it was Hindu-Muslim and now it is Hindu-Christian. They are injecting poison. I have never seen such anti-Christian sentiments in the state,” the pastor said while referring to attacks on minority communities. Christians have called for a hunger strike in Belagavi on December 17 to highlight the issues faced by the community.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/uneasiness-shrouds-christian-community-in-karnataka-after-recent-attacks-101639508943686.html
15-12-2021||India||Karnataka: 39 cases of crime against Christians in 2021, says report||In 11 months, Karnataka reported 39 incidents of hate crimes against the Christian community in Karnataka in 2021, said a report by the People’s Union for Civil Liberties (PUCL) on Tuesday. The report, titled ‘Criminalizing the Practice of Faith’, listed out the 39 incidents and went on to add that in some cases the police department and some politicians colluded with right-wing organisations in carrying out these attacks.“Given the frequency and intensity of these attacks, our report relies on the Christian community’s narratives of surviving majoritarian violence. The members of the Christian community especially in rural Karnataka continue to face threats of violence, discrimination, and survival during their everyday lives,” the report stated.According to PUCL, the report documented attacks on pastors, believers, and Churches in Karnataka between January and November 2021, the modus operandi of the right-wing groups behind these attacks and the patterns that emerge from these attacks.“There have been attacks in Karnataka that have been sponsored by the state. Not only has the state failed to book perpetrators, but also booked the victims in several cases. We demand that the government should follow the Tahseen Poonawalla judgement and make sure justice is done to them (the Christian community). We also want to ensure that the (Anti-conversion) bill is opposed strongly,” said a former head of Amnesty International India, who was one of the members who launched the report. According to the report, in most cases, Christians have been forced to shut down their places of worship and stopped from assembling for their Sunday prayers. “Effectively, these attacks on praying in a gathering that is enforced by Hindutva groups with the complicity of the State function as a bar on the freedom to practice religion itself. Far from the right to propagate religion, today the attacks in Karnataka are on the right to freely profess and practise religion,” read the report.“In many cases of mob violence, the police arrested pastors and believers. They even issued formal notices to churches to stop prayer meetings. This failure of the State further marginalizes a minority community in how they live their lives struggling to access education, shelter, food, livelihood, and basic dignity during Covid,” it added. The report listed several right-wing organizations, alleging their role in the attack and it went on to say that two MLAs of the ruling Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP), too, were involved in the attacks. “In two instances of hate crimes in Karwar (October 4) and Mandya (January 25), Bharatiya Janata Party MLA Sunil Kumar and 3-time BJP MLA Narayana Gowda (currently Minister of State for Youth Empowerment and Sports, Planning, Program monitoring, and Statistics) were also named as people who supported the police in targeting Christians,” the report said. While the two BJP legislators were not available for comments, BJP spokesperson Ganesh Karnik denied these allegations. “Leaders mentioned in the report, especially Sunil Kumar, are leaders are who are bringing the cadre together in Karnataka for BJP, and this is an attempt to tarnish their reputation. The party has not indulged in any violence, but it only wants to bring a bill that stops force conversions in the state. The report is not factual,” said Karnik. Apart from the attacks and the role of the right-wing organisations, the report pointed out a larger issue of social boycott and dissemination faced by the Christian community. “What is particularly alarming is the discrimination and social boycott that the Christians have faced from persons who are not a part of these Hindutva organizations. Such as their neighbours, landowners, employers, small businesses like grocery stores, even schools, in their localities,” the report read.Pointing out the alleged involvement of authorities in the attack, the report claimed that during their research, PUCL observed in the chain of events in every case, that the police colluded with these groups. “With the overt guidance of the local leaders of BJP, RSS, Bajrang Dal, Hindu Jagran Vedike, and Banjara Nigama, the police actively work to criminalize the lives of Christians and stop them from organizing prayer meetings. This complicit role of the police emboldens a culture of intolerance and bigotry. Through the complicity, the police have become an arm of social segregation strengthening of such Hindutva forces,” it added.The report cited a case study of an attack that took place on September 19 to highlight this issue. “I was organising weekly prayers for 8 months in the same prayer hall for 15 believers. One such Sunday, 200 people came to our prayer hall and started raising slogans against Christianity… Within five minutes of the mob’s verbal abuse and shouting, the police came. Perhaps they were nearby because they knew that this was happening,” the report quoted pastor Jim, who was attacked during the incident. “The police detained 4 of us at the station till 8 PM before giving any of us any information. They filed a complaint against me, a woman, her husband and their son under 295A, but refused to file our complaint against the Hindutva mob that was abusing us verbally. Our lawyer came to the police station at 5 PM but the police refused to file our complaint even after he spoke to them. They told us that the Sub-Inspector has instructed them to not file any complaint on behalf of us. We were in jail for 3 days,” pastor Jim added in this statement.Responding to the report Karnataka police chief DG and IGP Praveen Sood denied the allegations. “We have been impartial in taking action against anyone who is indulged in such activities, irrespective of religion and caste. As reported by the media itself, there has been a considerable number of FIRs registered and people have been arrested. We have taken action,” he said Sood. Responding to the query on whether 39 instances in 11 months is a matter of concern, the police chief said that 39 instances is a claim made by the PUCL and it has to be verified. He said that the police department will go by the number of FIRs registered and that the number of cases registered in this regard was not readily available. The report highlighted the small share of the Christian population in India to deflate the claim of forced mass conversion. It said that according to the 1971 Census, Christians comprised 2.60% of the population of India. “In 1981 they [Christians] were 2.44%, in 1991 2.33%, in 2001 2.18% and at present, they are 2.30%,” the report said.The document added that as per the 2011 Census, Christians accounted for 1.87% of the population in Karnataka. “Thus, the statistics do nothing to suggest that the Christian population is increasing,” the report said.The report pointed out that Karnataka chief minister Basavaraj Bommai has publicly spoken about his plan to table an anti-conversion Bill in the Assembly. “Evidently, without an increased population, there is nothing to substantiate the claim of forced mass conversions. At the very outset, these numbers are proof that forced mass conversion is a myth, a bogey that is being used to criminalize the practice of faith by Christians.” Responding to the allegations against increasing attacks on the Christians in the state and the anti-conversion bill, Karnataka home minister Araga Jnanendra said the government is not targeting any particular community “We are bringing it within the framework of the law. It is there in Article 25 of the Constitution that there cannot be forced conversions but there was no penal clause if such conversions take place,” said Jnanendra. “We are bringing punishment, penalty provisions (for forced conversions). One who wants to convert should submit an application two months prior to the Deputy Commissioner. The person performing the conversion will also have to apply. Those who are converting will have to lose the religion of their origin and facilities or benefits attached with it,” he added.Meanwhile, KPCC president DK Shivakumar called the attacks and the anti-conversion bill a political tactic of the BJP. “It is a political game from BJP, and we will oppose it. More than anything, I’m worried about its impact. Karnataka is an investment corridor. The entire world is looking at Karnataka and Bangalore. If such attacks continue, investments in the state will reduce. The government is not taking all sections of the society into confidence,” said Shivakumar.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/karnataka39-cases-of-crime-against-christians-in-2021-says-report-101639508761995.html
15-12-2021||India||Expert bodies studying booster shots: Govt to HC||The Union government has informed the Delhi high court that currently there are no guidelines for administering booster doses to fully vaccinated people and the priority is to cover the entire eligible population with both the doses.In an affidavit, the government told a bench of Justices Vipin Sanghi and Jasmeet Singh that the appropriateness and necessity of booster dose of covid-19 vaccine is yet to be decided.“It is humbly submitted that the current knowledge about duration of immunity offered by Covid-19 vaccines in India is limited and will clearly be known over a period of time only,” the Centre said in an affidavit filed on December 10.In recent days, initial evidence has emerged of the need for a booster dose of Covid vaccines to combat a new strain of the Omicron variant of the virus causing the disease, but India is yet to take a call on boosters. Till Tuesday evening, the country had completely vaccinated 55.5% of its adult population of 940 million and partly vaccinated another 31.5% . Expert bodies National Technical Immunization (NTAGI) and National Expert Group on Vaccine Administration for Covid-19 (NEGVAC), responsible for advising the Centre on its immunisation policy, are deliberating and considering scientific evidence related to boosters. The government’s response came on a bunch of pleas, including one by advocate Rakesh Malhotra seeking better facilities to tackle Covid-19.On the last date of the hearing, on November 25, the court asked the union government to give a categorical reply on the necessity of booster doses to be administered to fully vaccinated people, saying that there was an increasing trend of advocacy for booster shots in western countries.To be sure, until recently, there was no strong scientific evidence in favour of boosters.The court also asked the Centre as to how the western world is encouraging boosters when the government was not permitting those who voluntarily want to take advanced dose.The court said decision of giving a booster dose should not be based on economics. The matter was listed on Tuesday but could not be taken up due to the paucity of time.
15-12-2021||India||Multiple mid-air close shaves for Air Marshal probing CDS chopper crash||Air Marshal Manavendra Singh, the man heading the probe into the chopper crash that killed India’s first chief of defence staff (CDS) General Bipin Rawat and 12 others last week, has defied death multiple times in his 39-year military career, including once during one of the gravest emergencies in Indian Air Force history involving a Russian-origin Mi-17 helicopter, officials familiar with the matter said on Tuesday.The Mi-17 flying Singh was seconds away from a crash in India’s North-East five years ago. His previous mid-air close shaves in Siachen were equally unsettling and dramatic, the officials said.Rawat and the others died when the Mi-17V5 went down near Coonoor on December 8, an accident that sent shock waves not only through the military establishment but the entire country, and is a devastating setback for the ongoing defence reforms and has raised questions about succession in the armed forces.The Mi-17V5 is an advanced variant of the Mi-17.Singh, a decorated helicopter pilot, narrowly escaped death in March 2016 when he was among the 16 people on board the Mi-17 helicopter flying from Shillong to a forward base in Arunachal Pradesh, and several times before during tough and perilous missions in Siachen in the late 1980s.He was awarded the hallowed Vir Chakra, India’s third-highest wartime gallantry medal, for multiple acts of heroism on the world’s highest battlefield.The stunning details of the rare Mi-17 emergency involving Singh, then an air vice marshal, and several other senior military officials, have been documented in India’s Most Fearless: True Stories of Modern Military Heroes authored by military affairs journalist Shiv Aroor and this correspondent.Singh, then an Air Vice Marshal, was the senior officer-in-charge of administration at the Shillong-based Eastern Air Command when the Mi-17 incident took place on March 12, 2016. Eastern Air Command chief Air Marshal Chandrashekharan Hari Kumar, a top-notch fighter pilot, and his wife, Devika, were on board too.The chopper was airborne for 25 minutes, and was flying above the paddy fields south of the Brahmaputra when the unimaginable happened -- it lost both engines.The next two minutes were terrifying.“For a fraction of second, it was hard to believe that both the engines of our aircraft had failed and we were auto-rotating. It was something that happens next to never in a twin-engine aircraft. Both the engines going off together is perhaps the rarest of rare emergencies,” the book cited above quotes the pilot, Squadron Leader Vikas Puri, as saying.Autorotation is a when the main rotor turns by virtue of the air moving up through it, rather than powered by an engine. The helicopter was descending at an alarming rate and barely 600 feet above ground and less than a frightening 20 seconds from impact.In the death-defying moments that followed, Puri was able to revive the engines and recover the Mi-17 barely 15 seconds from impact and near-certain death or crippling injuries to all on board, including Singh. Puri was later awarded the Vayu Sena Medal for gallantry for not only saving lives but also a precious war-waging asset.Breaking the 120-second radio silence forced by the emergency, Puri contacted Tezpur air traffic control and informed a dumbstruck officer at the other end that his Mi-17 had just recovered from a twin-engine failure, the book records. The officer asked if the Mi-17 needed assistance.“What possible assistance could we get up there?” Puri said later. The Mi-17 landed in Tezpur.A few months after the incident that almost killed him, Manavendra Singh and his son Siddharth, then a flight lieutenant and a chopper pilot like his father, flew a sortie together in a Mi-17V5 helicopter.Singh was awarded Vir Chakra for uncommon courage and excellent flying skills in Siachen in 1988 in the face of heavy Pakistani artillery and automatic fire.Between June and August 1988, his helicopter came under intense hostile fire at least eight times at three different forward helipads on the Siachen glacier, but the pilot executed his missions with outstanding courage and determination, Singh’s Vir Chakra citation said. Then a flight lieutenant posted at the IAF’s 114 Helicopter Unit, Singh carried out more than 1,000 sorties in the area.Manavendra Singh is the best man to probe the CDS chopper crash, said Air Marshal NJS Dhillon (retd), a former commander-in-chief of the Strategic Forces Command who has handled aircraft safety matters in a previous role. “Singh brings to the table the credibility of his professionalism and the weight of his office,” Dhillon added.
15-12-2021||India||Lakhimpur Kheri violence: Stringent sections added to FIR||A court in Uttar Pradesh on Tuesday added stringent sections of the Indian Penal Code and Arms Act, including attempt to murder, to the First Information Report (FIR) against 13 people accused of mowing down farmers in Lakhimpur Kheri in October.The decision of the chief judicial magistrate (CJM) in Lakhimpur Kheri came a day after the special investigation team (SIT) looking into the October 3 Lakhimpur Kheri violence, where eight people were killed, told the court that incident was “well planned” and “deliberate”.The addition of charges triggered a political row, with the Opposition looking to corner the BJP government over the involvement of Union minister of state for home Ajay Mishra Teni’s son Ashish Mishra in the case.“According to the prosecution, the ongoing investigation and evidences collected in the FIR so far had established that October 3 violence leading to death of five people and injuries to several others was not an act of negligence or carelessness but an act of premeditated planning, hence charges under sections 279 (rash driving), 338 (causing grievous injuries by negligence) and 304 A (causing death due to negligence) as in the FIR did not stand,” said senior prosecution officer (SPO) SP YadavThe prosecution urged the court to drop these sections and add sections 307 (attempt to murder), 326 (voluntarily causing injuries by dangerous weapons), 34 (acts by several persons with common intentions) and sections 3/25/30 of the Arms Act, Yadav added.The matter was heard in the court of chief judicial magistrate (CJM) Chinta Ram. All 13 accused, including Ashish Mishra, were produced in court.Four farmers and a journalist died when an SUV owned by Ajay Mishra ran over farmers from behind in Lakhimpur Kheri on October 3. In the ensuing violence, three more people -- two of whom were Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) workers and one was the driver of the car -- were killed. In court, defence counsels Awadhesh Singh and Chandra Mohan Singh opposed the imposition of stringent sections. Awadhesh Singh said they objected to the sections 149 (unlawful assembly) and 34 against the accused.However, Yadav said section 34 was a rule of evidence while 149 was a penal section, and as such both sections could be promulgated simultaneously.Ajay Mishra visited his son at the Lakhimpur district jail on Tuesday. “I just went to meet my son. Can’t discuss in open what we talked about,” he said.Legal experts said the addition of new sections will make it difficult for them to get bail. “Apart from the existing bail application, the accused will now have to seek bail on the additional charges that have been added. This will further delay the possibility of them getting bail,” said Lucknow-based senior advocate Abhimanyu Singh.Samajwadi Party (SP) national president Akhilesh Yadav, said the farmers will never forget the incident: “The farmers will never forget the Lakhimpur Kheri incident. First, this government introduced three black farm laws, then insulted the agitating farmers. Over 700 farmers lost their lives in the agitation. And then looking at the elections in UP and Punjab, the government withdrew the black laws. So many farmers would have not lost their lives had this government listened to us and farmers. BJP people mowed down farmers by SUVs.”Congress General Secretary Priyanka Gandhi Vadra demanded that Ajay Mishra should be sacked with immediate effect.“The Minister of State for Home should be sacked from the Union Cabinet and his role in the Lakhimpur farmer massacre should be investigated,” she said in a statement.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/lakhimpur-kheri-violence-stringent-sections-added-to-fir-101639508041517.html
15-12-2021||India||New locally developed military hardware for armed forces||In a move aimed at self-reliance in India’s defence manufacturing sector, defence minister Rajnath Singh on Tuesday handed over to the armed forces locally developed military hardware including a smart air-launched weapon, anti-drone systems, and an advanced radar countermeasure system, officials familiar with the development said.The weapons and systems were developed by the Defence Research and Development Organisation.Singh also handed over transfer of technology (ToT) agreements covering six systems, including the coastal surveillance radar, to seven public and private sector companies to bolster their defence manufacturing capabilities at an event organised as part of the countrywide celebrations to mark the 75th year of India’s Independence.This comes at a time when a time when the government is encouraging self-reliance is the defence sector through a slew of policy decisions.The notable systems handed over to the armed forces include the smart anti-airfield weapon (SAAW), which can target enemy airfield assets such as radars, bunkers, taxiways and runways; and counter-drone systems to swiftly detect, intercept, and destroy small drones that pose a security threat.SAAW has a range of 100km.The anti-drone system will give the military both “soft kill” and “hard kill” options to tackle the new and fast-emerging aerial threat, the officials said. The first refers to jamming the hostile drone, while the second involves a laser-based kill system. The drone threat was highlighted by the June 27 attack targeting the Jammu air force station, the first-ever offensive use of drones to hit an Indian military facility.The steps taken by the government to boost indigenisation include increasing foreign direct investment (FDI) from 49% to 74%, notifying two lists of 209 weapons and systems that cannot be imported and creating a separate budget for buying locally made military hardware.Singh identified the development of a hypersonic cruise missile as a key focus area.India took the first steps last year towards developing a new class of ultra-modern weapons that can travel six times faster than the speed of sound (Mach 6) and penetrate any missile defence, with DRDO carrying out a successful flight test of the hypersonic technology demonstrator vehicle (HSTDV) for the first time.Only the US, Russia and China have developed technologies to field fast-manoeuvring hypersonic missiles that fly at lower altitudes and are extremely hard to track and intercept. Mach 6 translates into a speed of 7,408kmph.India could develop hypersonic cruise missiles powered by air-breathing scramjet engines in about four years, the officials said. Such engines operate efficiently at hypersonic speeds and allow supersonic combustion.
15-12-2021||India||Kejriwal vows ₹1k/mnth for women in Uttarakhand||Delhi chief minister and national convener of the Aam Aadmi Party (AAP), Arvind Kejriwal, on Tuesday announced that ₹1,000 will be deposited in the accounts of all adult women every month in Uttarakhand if his party is elected to power in the state.Kejriwal made this announcement during a one-day visit to Kashipur in Kumaon’s Udham Singh Nagar, home to chief minister Pushkar Singh Dhami.“By evening everyone will start asking on TV channels that where I will get the money for this. I will tell you where the money will come from. Uttarakhand budget is around ₹ 55,000 crore. Isn’t corruption there in state? In any work, how much corruption is there. Some say there is 60%, 80 % corruption in the state. Let us say there is 20% corruption. So, 20% of 55,000 crore is around ₹ 11,000 crore, which goes into pockets of politicians and then to Swiss Banks,” he said.Kejriwal added that his announcement will have a financial implication of ₹ 3000 crore.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/kejriwal-vows-1k-month-for-women-in-uttarakhand-101639507803140.html
15-12-2021||India||Integration of tri-services to advance seamlessly: Rajnath Singh||Integration of the armed forces to enhance their effectiveness and reshape the conduct of future operations will progress seamlessly, and achieving this target will be a top priority for the government, defence minister Rajnath Singh said on Tuesday, while paying tribute to India’s first chief of defence staff (CDS) General Bipin Rawat and 12 others killed last week in a chopper crash near Coonoor in Tamil Nadu.Rawat was spearheading the theaterisation drive to best utilise the military’s resources for future wars and operations. The CDS’s shocking demise is likely to have implications for the military reforms, and the government will have to move swiftly to announce a succession plan, officials said. Singh’s comments indicate the current vacuum created by Rawat’s death will not hit India’s theaterisation plans.The process of “integration and modernisation of the tri-services” was initiated with the creation of the post of CDS and the department of military affairs, and it will be carried forward to achieve the goals as early as possible, the defence minister said.Rawat took over as CDS on December 31, 2019, after serving as army chief for a full three-year term. He held the four-star rank for almost five years, making him the longest serving four-star general in India. As CDS, he wore multiple hats. He was the permanent chairman of the chiefs of staff committee, headed the department of military affairs, and was the single-point military adviser to the defence minister.In November, Rawat asked the three services to expedite their studies on the creation of theatre commands and submit comprehensive reports within six months. The deadline for submitting the reports was advanced from September 2022 to April 2022. The current theaterisation model to enhance tri-service synergy seeks to set up four integrated commands – two land-centric theatres, an air defence command, and a maritime theatre command.All eyes are now on who will be appointed as Rawat’s successor at a time when the theaterisation plan is at a critical juncture and needs a man with vision to carry it forward.Army chief General Manoj Mukund Naravane became the senior-most military officer in the country after Rawat’s demise. IAF chief Air Chief Marshal Vivek Ram Chaudhari and navy chief Admiral R Hari Kumar are both around two years junior to him.
15-12-2021||India||Freedom struggle history left out many seers: PM Modi in UP||The contribution of spiritual gurus in the freedom movement had not been recorded in history the way it should have been but the younger generation was being introduced to their role, Prime Minister Narendra Modi said on Tuesday in Varanasi.Modi was speaking at the 98th anniversary celebrations of Sadguru Sadafal Dev Vihangam Yog Sansthan in Varanasi. The occasion also marked the 100th anniversary of freedom fighter Sadguru Sadafal Deo Ji Maharaj’s imprisonment for allegedly inciting mutiny against British rule.“There were many saints who left their spiritual practices and participated in the freedom struggle. Their contribution was not recorded in history the way it should have been. When we are celebrating Amrit Mahotsav, it is our responsibility to bring this contribution to light. So today, the country is remembering the contribution of its saints and gurus and introducing it to the young generation,” said Modi, referring to the celebrations marking 75 years of independence.The PM, speaking a day after inaugurating the Kashi Vishwanath Corridor, highlighted that Sant Sadafal Dev was one of the first people to go to jail in the non-cooperation movement. He also greeted the citizens on the occasion of Gita Jayanti.“During freedom movement, Sadguru gave a mantra of Swadeshi. Now, the nation has started the Aatmanirbhar Bharat Mission. Local trade, business and products are being strengthened. Local is being made global,” said the PM. “By giving strength to the local business and focusing on employment generation, local is being made global.”He emphasised that cities like Varanasi preserved the seeds of India’s identity, art and entrepreneurship even in the toughest of times. “Where there is a seed, the tree begins to expand from there. And that is why, when we talk about the development of Banaras, it also forms the road map for the development of the entire India,” said Modi. “Embracing the novelty while retaining the old, Banaras is giving a new direction to the country,” he added.The PM also urged people to take a resolution to educate their daughters and develop their skills.“Along with their families, the people who can afford, should also take the responsibility of skill development of one or two daughters from financially weaker section families,” he said.Appealing to people to save water, he said, “We have to keep our rivers, Gangaji and all water sources clean.” These can be resolutions that should be given momentum in the next two years.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/freedom-struggle-history-left-out-many-seers-modi-in-up-101639507501354.html
15-12-2021||India||Verify caste certificates while hiring: Parliament panel||Ministries and public enterprises must end the practice of verifying caste certificates at the end of one’s career to enable smooth disbursal of pension benefits, a House panel has suggested.Presenting a report in this regard on Tuesday, Parliament’s committee on welfare of Scheduled Castes (SCs) and Scheduled Tribes (STs) said it has “strongly recommended” the department of personnel and training to issue guidelines “whereby the caste certificate of an employee is verified within six months of his joining.” “If the organisation carries out the verification process immediately at the time of joining, then no person can gain employment on the basis of a false caste certificate,” the panel, headed by BJP’s Kirit Solanki, told Parliament.“The committee has observed that presently, the verification of caste certificate starts at the fag end of the career of the employee. Withholding pension benefits is gross harassment for the employee, both mentally and physically,” the panel added.The panel’s suggestions came following Akhil Bharatiya Adivasi Vikas Parishad’s claims that both ministries and public offices have withheld pension benefits for as many as 136 SC, STs. Of these, seven died while waiting for their benefits, it said.
15-12-2021||India||Anurag Thakur attacks Akhilesh Yadav over remark on PM Modi||A day after Samajwadi Party president Akhilesh Yadav took a dig at Prime Minister Narendra Modi, saying people go to Varanasi during their “final days”, Union Minister Anurag Thakur on Tuesday said that such language was not expected from a former chief minister.Speaking to reporters outside Parliament, Thakur said: “No one had expected such a loose statement from a former chief minister. The statement reflects his (Akhilesh’s) mindset and thought process and shows how frustrated he is. Before speaking, one should think twice over what kinds of words one is using and against whom. Using such words against someone who is older is unfortunate.” Soon after PM Modi inaugurated the Kashi Vishwanath Corridor in Varanasi, his parliamentary constituency, on Monday, Yadav remarked jeeringly that people stay in Varanasi during their “final days”. “This is very good, he (Modi) can stay there not for one month but two or even three months. That is a good place to stay, people spend their final days here,” he said. Several Bharatiya Janata Party leaders in Uttar Pradesh also condemned the remarks on Monday, with state chief Swatantra Dev Singh seeking an apology and asking Yadav to visit Kashi Vishwanath temple to seek forgiveness.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/anurag-thakur-attacks-akhilesh-yadav-over-remark-on-pm-modi-101639507261337.html
15-12-2021||India||TMC, MGP formalise alliance for Goa polls||The Trinamool Congress (TMC) and the Maharashtrawadi Gomantak Party (MGP) on Wednesday formalised an alliance before the state assembly elections early next year, pledging to jointly take on the ruling Bharatiya Janata Party.Speaking at a rally where the alliance was announced, West Bengal chief minister and TMC chief Mamata Banerjee said the alliance presented a “real alternative to the BJP”.“We are a joint family now. In a joint family, TMC and MGP has become a real alternative in Goa. Vote for us. TMC and MGP will rule in Goa. Those who want to defeat the BJP, we request them to not divide the vote,” Banerjee said at the rally.The MGP, which gave Goa its first chief minister, is the longest standing political party in the coastal state, albeit one that was reduced to a marginal player by the BJP that gained vote share in the state in the 1990s and 2000s largely at the expense of the MGP.The MGP currently has a single MLA in the legislative assembly after two of the three elected MLAs switched sides to the BJP, following which party leader Ramkrishna “Sudhin” Dhavalikar, who was deputy chief minister under former chief minister Manohar Parrikar, was dropped from the cabinet by his successor Pramod Sawant.The Dhavalikars, Sudin and his brother Pandurang “Deepak” Dhavalikar, who is party president, control the affairs of the MGP.“We formed the alliance for the good of Goa to offer Goa a new dawn and to take us to the zenith of development. To get to the mountain of happiness, we have to cross several hills of despair,” Sudin Dhavalikar said at the rally.“They (the BJP) stole two of our MLAs and 10 from the Congress (to ensure majority in the assembly). The voters should put an end to this,” Dhavalikar said.He recalled how present TMC Rajya Sabha MP Luizinho Faleiro, who switched to the TMC a few months ago from the Congress party, was involved in “stealing” MLAs from the MGP when he was chief minister of Goa in 1999.“Despite having a full majority of 22 (in the 40-member house), he stole two MGP MLAs,” Dhavalikar recalled, highlighting the differences that remain between the two parties despite the alliance.Banerjee on her part assured that local affairs will be decided by local leaders.“I have not come to control you. I do not want outsiders to control Goa. I want insiders,” she said. There was no word on how many seats each party would fight.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/tmc-mgp-formalise-alliance-for-goa-polls-101639507142038.html
15-12-2021||India||Govt gives nod to HLL disinvestment process, workers oppose move||The finance ministry on Tuesday initiated the process to disinvest profit-making public sector HLL Lifecare Limited, which was designated as a nodal procurement agency for medical equipment in 2020 for the Covid pandemic.The advertisement released by the finance ministry’s Department of Investment and Public Asset Management has sought bids for a 100% stake in the company by Jan 31, 2022. The government gave its “in-principle” approval for its HLL’s disinvestment in July.HLL Lifecare, which played a key role in India’s family planning programme in the 1970s manufacturing condoms branded Nirodh, forayed into other contraceptive, hospital supplies and women’s health care products starting from the 1990s, according to the company website.According to the EoI document, the firm is also engaged in providing health care and diagnostic services, consultancy and contract services for health care infrastructure projects, and consultancy services for procurement of medical equipment and devices in the health care sector.The EoI document said the government “envisages the strategic disinvestment of HLL as a whole rather than separately in parts, where Interested bidders can bid individually or in the consortium”.“On completion of the transaction as well as the stipulated lock-in period, flexibility would be given to the strategic acquirer for an easy exit from a part of the business which is not in sync with the business plans of the acquirer,” the document added.Hindustan Latex Employees Union Congress general secretary Nisar Ahmad said they were stunned by the government move. “It was least expected… We were working 24x7 during the pandemic and some workers collapsed in the factory due to a heavy workload. It is the reward for our hard work and we feel cheated,” he said.A senior HLL official, asking not to be named, said that in 2020-21 the turnover of the company was ₹5,081.31 crores.“We are speechless. We never expected this now,” said a factory employee K Balakrishnan, adding that the company and its employees played a key role in tiding over shortages of PPE kits during Covid pandemic.
15-12-2021||India||Welfare schemes for informal sector under progress||The Union government is working on a range of social security and welfare schemes for the informal sector, particularly migrants and gig workers, covering basics such as food security, affordable accommodation, and medical benefits, higher order needs including skill upgradation, financial inclusion, and access to institutional credit, and which may also involve cash transfers to registered beneficiaries.Although still work in progress, some of these measures may find a mention in Union Budget 2022-23, with the government having already created a database of at least 110 million registered migrant workers, three people aware of the matter said, requesting anonymity.“The government is working on various welfare schemes, including creation of a social security fund to support welfare schemes for unorganised sector workers, including gig and platform workers,” one person said, adding that stakeholders’ feedback during the pre-budget consultations will be used to make such schemes inclusive and effective. Finance minister Nirmala Sitharaman is starting virtual consultations from Wednesday, according to an official tweet. “Finance minister Smt @nsitharaman will be holding her 1st Pre-Budget consultations with experts of Agriculture and Agro-processing industry tomorrow afternoon, 15th Dec 2021,” the finance ministry posted on Tuesday. The Union Budget for 2022-23 is expected to be presented on February 1, 2022.Gig workers earn from work and activities outside of the traditional employer-employee relationship, and platform workers are engaged through an online platform by employers to provide specific tasks or services to customers. Gig workers such as freelancers, and platform workers earning through food delivery apps or cab aggregators, do not enjoy social security benefits like provident fund, gratuity and pension benefits provided to employees engaged in formal jobs.The effective implementation of welfare schemes for the unorganised sector will be possible with the help of state governments through an Aadhaar-linked database of unorganised workers through e-Shram portal, the person cited above said. On August 26, the government launched the e-Sharam portal for registration of unorganised workers with an objective of providing benefits of welfare schemes to migrant workers even when they move from one place to other.“The registration through Aadhaar may also help check influx of illegal migrants from porous international borders. Illegal migrants from neighbouring countries not only grab jobs meant for the Indian workforce, but also reduce their bargaining power as they are willing to work even below the official minimum wage,” a second person said.According to the government’s estimates in 2016, there were over 20 million illegal migrants in India.The government is working on a comprehensive social security plan to avoid a crisis such as the one witnessed after the lockdown was announced last year -- the mass migration of labour.After the Covid-19 pandemic hit India in March 2020, a 68-day nationwide hard lockdown from March 25 was enforced that shut down factories and business establishments.According to official data, around 11.43 million migrant workers returned to their home state during the pandemic period last year.“We have no social security. We are often exploited in terms of revenue-share, working hours and unreasonable conditions imposed by the intermediaries, who are often big companies and multinationals. We want the government to adequately protect us,” Telangana Gig and Platform Workers’ Union treasurer K Prakash said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/budget-2022-may-announce-social-security-welfare-schemes-for-informal-sector-101639506843772.html
15-12-2021||India||House passes bills on ED, CBI chiefs’ terms||Parliament on Tuesday passed two draft legislations to extend the terms of the directors of Central Bureau of Investigation and Enforcement Directorate to a maximum of five years, amid a walkout by the opposition, which wanted to discuss the suspension of 12 lawmakers.The Central Vigilance Commission (Amendment) Bill, 2021, and the Delhi Special Police Establishment (Amendment) Bill, 2021, which were cleared by the Lok Sabha on December 9, was moved by junior personnel minister Jitendra Singh and passed by voice vote in the Upper House.The modified laws allow authorities to extend the tenures of the directors by one year at a time from the initial date of appointment till the completion of five years.Soon after Singh moved the motion, opposition leaders led by leader of opposition in Rajya Sabha, Mallikarjun Kharge, walked out of the House to protest the suspension of 12 MPs for unruly behaviour in the monsoon session. Kharge had asked the chair to revoke the suspension and allow the MPs to participate in the debate.Speaking in the House, Singh said the two bills will streamline and institutionalise the agencies. “I think, contrary to the popular impression in certain quarters, the amendment does not seek to increase the tenure. Rather, it seeks to put an embargo on the tenure, which is that of five years,” he said.“The existing law under the DSPE Act (relating to the Central Bureau of Investigation) prohibits for a tenure not less than two years. We are suggesting a tenure not more than five years. So, in a way, we are making it more streamlined, more institutionalised and more democratised,” he said.Several MPs, including Janata Dal (United)’s Ram Nath Thakur, GK Vasan of the Tamil Maanila Congress, Birendra Prasad Vaishya of Asom Gana Parishad, Brijlal of Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP), and Pilli Subhash Chandra Bose of YSR Congress Party, spoke in favour of the two bills.Several leaders, including Thakur, said a tenure should also be fixed for completing investigations by these agencies.BJP MP D P Vats cited examples from across the world where heads of investigative agencies have a tenure of five years or more.In his remarks, Singh attacked the opposition for not being present in the House.“The noble motive behind bringing this bill stands fully established. However, what is the motive of those who have chosen to walk away from the discussion or to shy away from the discussion, I leave that to the judgment of the history and the writers of history,” he said.Reacting to this, Congress spokesperson Pawan Khera said: “It is a misfortune that in the 75th year of our Independence, democracy is being so shamelessly decimated by the Modi government. They curb the voice of the opposition, they illegally suspend MPs and the PM proudly participates in the Summit for Democracy. This is the height of two-facedness.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/parliament-passes-bills-to-extend-terms-of-ed-cbi-chiefs-101639506601077.html
15-12-2021||India||International flights depend on Omicron cases: Scindia||The Omicron variant of Covid-19 has triggered concern over international travel across the world, civil aviation minister Jyotiraditya Scindia said on Tuesday, leading to fresh travel restrictions in several countries, including India.“International travel is completely dependent on the spread of the Omicron variant,” Scindia said. “Prior to Covid, our highest capacity was close to 4.2 lakh passengers daily. Now we are ranging between 3.7 lakh to 3.95 lakh. We currently have a seat load factor ranging from 75- 81%, which is a healthy factor.”The minister added: “Keeping this in mind, I was looking at opening up international travel, but the world got hit by Omicron, which has been raging virulently and violently across the world, and we decided to contain international exposure again.” India has put 12 regions, including all of Europe, on its “at-risk” list. Passengers arriving from these areas are tested at the airport and have to quarantine at home for seven days.“We are working closely with the health ministry. When we get over Omicron, we can go back to normalcy, but I cannot give you a date today. We must put the health of our citizens at the top of our priority list amid the new concerns,” Scindia said.He was speaking at a partnership summit organised by the Confederation of Indian Industry in association with the department for promotion of industry and internal trade of the commerce ministry.Speaking on the privatisation of Air India, Scindia said the transaction was a win-win situation for everyone. He said that the ministry and Centre is developing an ecosystem that includes maintenance, repair and overhaul of aircraft, leasing of planes, drones, helicopters and aerospace manufacturing.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/international-flights-depend-on-omicron-spread-scindia-101639506421164.html
15-12-2021||India||18 opposition parties hold march against suspension of MPs from Parliament||Leaders of as many as 18 opposition parties on Tuesday held a protest march against the suspension of 12 Rajya Sabha MPs, from the entire winter session of Parliament, even as the government remained adamant that the legislators “express remorse and regret” for their behaviour in the last session.Opposition leaders from both Lok Sabha and Rajya Sabha held a march from Parliament House to Vijay Chowk, holding placards and banners, and refusing to relent till the suspension was revoked.“This (suspension) is a symbol of the crushing of the voices of the people of India. They have remained suspended now for two weeks . They have been sitting outside. Their voices have been crushed. They have done nothing wrong,” Congress leader Rahul Gandhi said. He also alleged that the government was passing Bills without holding discussions or debates in the two Houses.Gandhi said Prime Minister Narendra Modi does not come to Parliament and “this is not the way to run a democracy”. “It is an unfortunate killing of democracy that is taking place,” he remarked.Dravida Munnetra Kazhagam (DMK) leader Tiruchi Siva said the government’s behaviour in Parliament was “undemocratic and in violation of all the Rules of Procedure” of the Upper House.Parliamentary affairs minister Pralhad Joshi said the government wants the opposition to join the House proceedings provided they “express remorse and regret”. “I call upon Congress leaders and others to express remorse and regret and come to the House. The government is in talks with them (suspended MPs) at an individual level for withdrawal of their suspension. I have made it clear that they should at least express regret,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/18-opposition-parties-hold-march-against-suspension-of-mps-from-parliament-101639506361434.html
15-12-2021||India||Travellers from ‘at-risk’ countries will have to pre-book tests: Centre||International travellers to India from “at-risk” countries will have to pre-book an RT-PCR test on arrival from December 20, initially at the airports in Delhi, Mumbai, Chennai, Hyderabad and Kolkata, the civil aviation ministry said on Tuesday, as the country seeks to contain the spread of the Omicron variant of coronavirus first detected in South Africa.The Air Suvidha portal will be modified to allow overseas arrivals to book the test that will be conducted on arrival, the ministry said in a statement.Those unable to do so will still be allowed to board planes, but it will be the responsibility of the airlines to ensure those passengers are accompanied to the testing counters, it said.The ministry has asked the Directorate General of Civil Aviation, India’s aviation regulator, to issue an advisory to all airlines to check the mandatory pre-booking of tests by passengers before they board a flight.Earlier this month, the health and aviation ministries had mandated self-declaration at the Air Suvidha portal as alarm spreads about the Omicron variant. The exemption forms on Air Suvidha were discontinued, and filling all details was made compulsory for international passengers arriving in India.Overseas passengers coming into India have to declare their current health status on Air Suvidha, along with uploading copies of their passports, RT-PCR negative certificates conducted within 72 hours of departure and vaccine certificates.Task force chief pitches for vaccine platformsCovid Task Force chief VK Paul on Tuesday said India should have vaccine platforms that are “adaptable quickly” with changing nature of the variants.“There is a potential scenario that our vaccines may become ineffective in emerging situations. In the wake of the last three weeks of living with Omicron, we have seen how such doubts have come up, some of them may be genuine, we still do not have the final picture,” he said.“There is need for us that we have to be sure about having vaccine platforms that are adaptable quickly,” he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/travellers-from-at-risk-countries-will-have-to-pre-book-covid-testscentre-101639506301088.html
15-12-2021||India||Opposition leaders may urge Naidu to break impasse after Sonia meet||Senior Opposition leaders such as the Congress’s Mallikarjun Kharge and Nationalist Congress Party (NCP) chief Sharad Pawar may collectively urge Rajya Sabha Chairman Venkaiah Naidu to take the initiative to end the logjam in RS over the suspension of 12 MPs, a meeting chaired by Congress president Sonia Gandhi decided on Tuesday.According to people familiar with the developments, the leaders may also point out to Naidu how his predecessor, Hamid Ansari, often took the lead to end such logjams during his tenure.The strategy on the Opposition’s way forward in the Upper House, besides the upcoming assembly elections in several states, was decided at a key meeting of leaders of five parties at Gandhi’s residence.Besides Sonia Gandhi, Congress leader Rahul Gandhi, Kharge and Pawar, Dravida Munnetra Kazhagam leader TR Balu, CPI(M) general secretary Sitaram Yechury, National Conference leader Farooq Abdullah, Shiv Sena leader Sanjay Raut and Congress general secretary (organization) KC Venugopal were present at the meeting.At the meeting, Yechury pointed out Ansari’s role in a marathon logjam in 2015 over the passage of bills. “In such cases, it is always the chairman who takes the lead to bring the House in order,” Yechury was quoted as saying by one of the people cited above.Condemning the suspension move, Sonia said such a situation is unheard of. Rahul remained insistent that the matter be solved by the government and that there is no question of any apology from the members.When Yechury said that Opposition leaders should meet Naidu and seek his intervention, Kharge said he had met the House chairman two to three times in the last 10 days but no there was no development.The leaders decided that along with Kharge, senior leaders such as Pawar would meet Naidu — possibly on Wednesday — to tell him that the Chairman always has always taken the lead to resolve acrimonious matters, the people cited above said.Besides the MPs’ suspension, the Opposition leaders also discussed the upcoming assembly elections and insisted that their goal would be to maximise the Opposition votes in the poll-bound states through co-operation and strategic pacts.A senior Opposition leader described Tuesday’s meeting as a follow-up of the mega Opposition meeting chaired by Sonia on August 20. This time, a smaller meeting was favoured keeping in mind the growing rift between the Congress and Trinamool Congress, after the latter poached several lawmakers and senior leaders and attacked the former in recent months.“If you call all opposition parties and Mamata Banerjee (TMC chief) does not attend, the media headlines would scream that Mamata boycotted the Congress-led opposition. And if we don’t invite her, the headlines would suggest opposition boycotts Mamata. It’s a tricky situation both ways,” a senior Congress leader said, seeking anonymity. The Congress indicated that Sonia may hold similar meets in the future.
15-12-2021||India||WPI inflation rises to 12-year high of 14.23% on oil, food||India’s annual wholesale inflation surged to 14.23% in November over a year ago on account of the so-called base effect , and also a rise in prices of mineral oils, basic metals, crude petroleum, natural gas, chemicals and food products, official data showed on Tuesday.The surge in the wholesale price index (WPI), which measures factory-gate inflation, or what producers charge wholesalers, follows a rise in retail prices. On Monday, the consumer price index (CPI) for November climbed 4.91%, despite the central and several state governments reducing taxes on petrol and diesel early in the month to provide relief to the people.WPI captures the average movement of wholesale prices of goods and excludes taxes. Therefore, reduction in taxes will not be captured in WPI data, a commerce ministry spokesperson said.Fuel and power have also been the biggest contributors of higher inflation rate in November this year, and were almost 40% higher than a year ago.WPI inflation in November this year jumped from 12.54% in the previous month (October 2021). However, in November 2020 it was low at 2.29%. Hence the spike in November 2021 wholesale inflation November is also on account of the low base a year ago, the spokesperson added.“Countries which traditionally have reported low inflation rates such as the US are now reporting record inflation levels due to these global effects,” he said adding that Italy, Spain, Germany and Singapore are witnessing around 20% inflation.Pradeep Multani, president of the PHD Chamber of Commerce and Industry said WPI inflation has “increased to a record level” because of an increase in prices of food articles, including vegetables, fruits, egg and meat, along with high prices of fuel and power. “As some stability in vegetable prices has been observed in the recent weeks, we expect WPI inflation to subside in the coming months.”Aditi Nayar, chief economist at ICRA Ltd said the weakening rupee would have adverse impact on containing inflation in December.Although the prices of various food items have displayed a seasonal downtrend and those of several commodities have corrected to an extent following the reality check provided by the Omicron variant, the rupee has depreciated in recent sessions, which may curtail the extent of moderation in the WPI inflation in December, she explained.The rupee on Tuesday closed at 75.88 against the US dollar, an 18-month low because of foreign fund outflows and concerns over inflation.“The hardening in the WPI inflation to 14.2% in November 2021 from 12.5% in October 2021, was dominated by the surge in primary food products to an inflation of 4.9% from the disinflation of 1.7%, respectively, in addition to the rise displayed by minerals, fuel and power, crude petroleum and natural gas as well as core-WPI,” she said.Only primary non-food articles and manufactured food products recorded a softening in the year-on-year inflation numbers in November, while continuing to remain in double digits, she added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/wpi-inflation-rises-to-12-year-high-of-14-23-on-oil-food-101639505820141.html
15-12-2021||India||Variant watch: What we know about Omicron||Does the Omicron variant lead to milder Covid-19?It seems so, according to what may be the first large-scale analysis of cases in South Africa, where the newest variant of concern was first seen and is believed to have become widespread.Discovery South Africa, a private insurer, said the findings were preliminary and based on the first three weeks of the Omicron outbreak in the country where it now accounts for 90% of the cases, and the picture may yet change.But for the initial period involving over 200,000 cases, it was found the risk of hospitalisation among adults was 29% less compared with the first wave in mid-2020, when the D614G variant (the closest to the ancestor that spread out of Wuhan) caused a Covid-19 epidemic in the country.“Epidemiological tracking shows a steep trajectory of new infections, indicating Omicron’s rapid spread, but so far with a flatter trajectory of hospital admissions, possibly indicating lower severity,” the company quoted Ryan Noach, its chief executive, as saying. “This lesser severity could, however, be confounded by the high seroprevalence levels of Sars-Cov-2 antibodies in the general South African population, especially following an extensive Delta wave of infections.”In Gauteng province, where the variant first spread and quickly became widespread, at least 70% of the population is estimated to have had a previous coronavirus infection, the report noted.The analysis also mirrored a sharp drop in vaccine efficacy in preventing symptomatic disease reported by real-world studies in the UK. Two doses of the Pfizer-BioNTech vaccine are now only 33% effective in preventing symptomatic Covid-19, down from 80% in the case of Delta, the Discovery SA study found.Crucially, in what is the first vaccine efficacy estimate for risk of hospitalisation, the analysis found a regular Pfizer vaccine regimen offered only 70% protection against severe complications in Omicron cases, significantly lower than the 93% protection if the infection was with the Delta variant.The Discovery South Africa analysis did not study the effect of booster doses.A study by the UK Health Security Agency last week showed a third dose of an mRNA vaccine lifted vaccine protection against symptomatic disease from 33% to 71-75%, which means a similar or better boost in protection against severe disease is likely with a booster.“It is important to note that these insights relate to data from the first three weeks of the Omicron-driven wave in South Africa. Therefore, the insights should be considered preliminary, since they may change as the wave progresses,” the insurer said.The report also flagged a 20% increased risk among children to be hospitalised due to Omicron, although this too could be skewed since most of the cases detected in all age groups were incidental; these people were already in the hospital for other diseases or procedures and were tested for Covid-19.The analysis also appeared to corroborate an increased risk of reinfection, finding a 40% relative risk with Omicron in people who were in the past infected with the Delta variant, and 60% chance of repeat infection in people who previously caught the Beta variant.
15-12-2021||India||Universities may soon offer maternity leave to undergrad students||Women pursuing undergraduate and postgraduate programmes in India may soon be entitled to 240 days of maternity and child care leave, similar to research scholars, once universities frame rules on directions by the country’s higher education regulator.All higher education institutions have been requested to frame appropriate rules through a letter sent on Tuesday by Rajnish Jain, secretary of the University Grants Commission.Women research scholars can take 240 days of maternity leave, according to the UGC (Minimum Standards and Procedure for Award of M.Phil./Ph.D degrees) Regulations, 2016. “...the women candidates may be provided Maternity Leave/Child Care Leave once in the entire duration of M.Phil/Ph.D. for up to 240 days,” reads part of clause 4.4 of the regulation.“In addition to above (clause 4.4), all Higher Education Institutions (HEIs) are requested to frame appropriate rules/norms with regard to granting Maternity Leave to the women students enrolled in their respective institution / affiliated Colleges and also provide all relaxations/exemptions relating to attendance, extension in date for submitting examination forms or any other facility deemed necessary for women students pursuing Undergraduate and postgraduate programmes,” Jain wrote in his letter.Women enrolled in undergraduate and postgraduate programmes do not currently enjoy such benefits.“The provision is only available for MPhil and PhD students presently,” said Balaram Pani, dean of collages at Delhi University. “However, it looks like the reform has been introduced in line with the New Education Policy (NEP) 2020, since it provides multiple exit and entry options to students. We are yet to seek more clarity over the communication.”Seema Das, a member of the university’s executive council and professor of political science at Hindu College, and the Delhi University Teachers Association (DUTA) member Abha Dev Habib welcomed the move, while demanding similar provisions should be extended for the women working as guest teachers.“This is more beneficial for female students living in rural areas or areas where cases of early marriages are rampant because the age of marriage in urban areas has considerably increased over the years,” Das said.“However, the UGC should also take steps to extend maternity benefits to women working as guest teachers.”
15-12-2021||India||India facing highest labour work hour loss due to heat stress: Study||India already loses around 101 billion hours a year on account of heat, the most in the world, and risks seeing this number rise to 230 billion hours a year when global warming reaches 2 degrees C over pre-industrial levels, a paper published in Nature on Tuesday said. That’s the equivalent of the work done by around 35 million people each working an eight-hour day, in a year .At global warming of 2 degrees plus, the world will see the loss of 547 billion hours due to heat, the paper, lead-authored by Nicholas School of the Environment, Duke University has estimated.Countries in Southwest Asia, South Asia, and Africa already experience per capita workday losses of over 200 hours a year. Qatar and Bahrain are recording the highest per capita losses of at least 300 hours a year, it added.“When we overlay per-capita labour losses on the working-age population in heavy outdoor labour, we find that countries with large populations in South and East Asia experience the most work hours lost, both in the coolest hours and in the full workday, with India showing the largest heat exposure impacts on heavy labour (>101 billion hours lost/year), despite its modest average per-capita labour losses (162 lost hours a year),” the paper stated.Large population-weighted labour losses are also recorded in countries such as Pakistan, Bangladesh, and China which may be driven by a combination of a huge working-age populations, seasonal heat exposure, and large fractions of population working in agriculture and construction. Under future warming scenarios India, China, Pakistan, and Indonesia will experience the largest such losses despite having lower national-average per-capita losses than other countries with smaller populations in Southeast Asia and tropical Africa, the study said.Heat exposure of labourers is linked to multiple health impacts, including premature death; workplace injuries; morbidity from heat-related illness; and acute kidney damage. Indeed, heat exposure is a potential contributing factor to an epidemic of chronic kidney disease of unknown etiology in otherwise healthy, relatively young workers in Central America, Sri Lanka, India, and Egypt, and other parts of the world according to the paper which also added that heat exposure can raise the absorption of certain chemicals and is associated with adverse pregnancy and mental health conditions.“Many workers in the tropics are already stopping work in the afternoon because it’s too hot. Luckily, about 30% of this lost labour can still be recovered by moving it to the early morning. But with each additional degree of global warming, workers’ ability to adapt this way will swiftly decrease as even the coolest hours of the day quickly become too hot for continuous outdoor labour,” said Luke Parsons, a climate researcher at Duke’s Nicholas School of the Environment, who co-led the study. “Sadly, many of the countries and people most impacted by current and future labour losses are not responsible for the bulk of greenhouse gas emissions,” he added.The study showed that currently, approximately 30% of global heavy labour losses can be recovered by moving labour to cooler hours of the day. But this adaptation mechanism is likely to fail when there is higher warming.“We show that this particular work shift adaptation potential is lost at a rate of about 2% per degree of global warming as early morning heat exposure rises to unsafe levels for continuous work, with worker productivity losses accelerating under higher warming levels. These findings emphasise the importance of finding alternative adaptation mechanisms to keep workers safe, as well as the importance of limiting global warming,” it concluded.Global-mean temperatures are now around 1.1°C warmer than pre-industrial levels. An additional 1°C of global warming relative to the present could occur as early as 2037. Therefore, if warming is left unchecked, the globe will continue to move into a new, ‘less adaptable’ climate regime within the lifetime of many young and middle-aged workers, the paper flagged.“The impact of climate change is being felt and seen. Last decade is the warmest in the last 1.2 lakh years. To build adaptation need to plan short and long term measures. changes in working hours, creating infrastructure facilities at farm level to rest during peak day and creating knowledge and skills when people succumb to heat stress. Lack of tree cover is one of the major problems. Need to increase the tree cover. The yields in crops are also getting effected because of the increasing temperatures. Pollen dries up and yield goes down due to prolonged dry spells,” said G V Ramanjaneyulu, executive director, Centre for Sustainable Agriculture, Hyderabad.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/india-facing-highest-labour-work-hour-loss-due-to-heat-stress-study-101639505641905.html
15-12-2021||India||IndiGo loader sleeping in cargo flown to Abu Dhabi; probe launched||A man who was loading items onto an IndiGo aircraft at the Mumbai airport fell asleep in the cargo hold of the jet before it took off and was found safe on arrival in Abu Dhabi, the airline said on Tuesday, launching an investigation into the incident.Experts said that while there have been cases globally of stowaways – people who hide in landing gear compartments of aircraft to travel – Sunday’s incident was rare.The loader, whose identity was not revealed by the airline, fell asleep behind a section of the baggage “to relax” in the cargo compartment and went unnoticed at the time of take-off on Sunday, an airport official said on condition of anonymity.“We are aware of the incident and the requisite authorities have been informed. The matter is under investigation,” an IndiGo spokesperson said. The incident took place in an Airbus 320 aircraft that operated as 6E-1835 (Mumbai to Abu Dhabi) and took off around 2.59am on Sunday. After the cargo door was closed, the loader woke up while the aircraft was on its way to the United Arab Emirates capital, another official said, asking not to be named.Directorate General of Civil Aviation (DGCA) director general Arun Kumar said: “The cargo door was closed after the hold staff marked the headcount. This was learnt after arrival at Abu Dhabi. A medical examination of this loader was conducted by Abu Dhabi authorities and examination revealed that he was physically stable. After getting the requisite clearances from local authorities at Abu Dhabi, he was sent back as passenger to Mumbai on the return flight.” The man was taken off the roster after returning to Mumbai pending investigation, the DGCA official said.“I have never heard of any such incident in the past. It raised questions about not only the flight incharge of the airline, but also safety concerns,” said Mohan Ranganathan, an aviation expert.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/indigo-loader-sleeping-in-cargo-flown-to-abu-dhabi-probe-launched-101639505580207.html
15-12-2021||India||PM Modi meets BJP CMs in governance push||Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Tuesday urged the chief ministers of 12 states ruled by the Bharatiya Janata Party to focus on development and last-mile delivery of welfare schemes, marking a major development push months before high-stakes state polls.The meeting in Varanasi, also attended by the deputy chief ministers of at least three states and BJP chief JP Nadda, came a day after Modi inaugurated the ₹700 crore Kashi Vishwanath Corridor.“Highlighting the importance of technology in governance, PM Modi called for governance to be data driven to ensure last mile delivery, speed and transparency,” said a press statement issued by the BJP.“He (Modi) called upon every BJP-headed government to carve a niche for itself in some or the other sector of governance. He urged governments to accord topmost priority to ease of living,” the statement added.The meeting was attended by the chief ministers of Assam, Arunachal Pradesh, Goa, Gujarat, Haryana, Himachal Pradesh, Karnataka, Madhya Pradesh, Manipur, Tripura, Uttar Pradesh and Uttarakhand. Both the deputy CMs in Bihar and Uttar Pradesh, and the deputy CM of Nagaland also participated in the event.PM Modi and UP chief minister Yogi Adityanath reached the Banaras Locomotive Works (BLW) auditorium for the meeting in the same vehicle from the Bareka guest house. Nadda welcomed the PM at the venue.Modi asked all the CMs to apprise people of various welfare and development schemes implemented by the government. “In a democracy, people are everything. In such a situation, it is very important to take care of the interest of public. There should be no laxity in implementing developmental schemes,” said the PM, according to senior BJP leaders who requested anonymity.The meeting came on the second day of the PM’s visit to his parliamentary constituency and hours after Modi and Adityanath conducted a surprise midnight inspection of several development projects, including the temple corridor and the city railway station.“Inspecting key development works in Kashi. It is our endeavour to create best possible infrastructure for this sacred city,” tweeted Modi at 12:52am on Tuesday.The BJP faces high-stakes elections in five states early next year, and is hoping to come back to power in Uttar Pradesh, India’s most populous and politically crucial state.On Monday, Modi opened the mega redevelopment project comprising 24 buildings built over 550,000 square feet, which aims to rejuvenate the centuries-old Kashi Vishwanath temple complex.In the meeting on Tuesday, the PM reaffirmed the principle of “minimum government, maximum governance” and urged the states to remove laws that had become archaic and reduce compliance burdens.The PM told the chief ministers to ensure 100% implementation of development schemes in their respective states. “Full benefits of the schemes should go to the people. Work on it and ensure it,” he added, according to BJP leaders present at the meeting.In his opening remarks, Nadda lauded Modi’s success in his two-decade-long stint, first as chief minister of Gujarat and then as PM. He also said that the BJP and good governance were synonymous.Earlier in the day, the PM held a meeting with the office-bearers of the Varanasi unit of the BJP and asked party lawmakers to stay in touch with the people.Modi told the BJP leaders to apprise people of welfare schemes of the state and central governments by organising street-corner meetings in villages, towns, localities and colonies.“During the meetings, do talk about the government’s vision of Sabka Saath-Sabka Vikas (inclusive development for all),” he said.
15-12-2021||India||SC clears widening of Char Dham road||The Supreme Court on Tuesday permitted the Union government to construct all-weather roads with 10m width as part of its Char Dham project in Uttarakhand, underlining that “the recent past has thrown up serious challenges to national security”, and that wide strategic feeder roads to Indo-China border areas were required for the infrastructural needs of the armed forces.Lifting its September 2020 restraining order against widening of the roads in view of the region’s ecology, the top court held that the considerations governing the construction of highways that are strategic roads from a defence perspective, and may be used by the armed forces of the nation, cannot be the same as those for other roads in hilly and mountainous regions.“This court, in its exercise of judicial review, cannot second-guess the infrastructural needs of the armed forces... The submission of the appellants requires the court to interrogate the policy choice of the establishment which is entrusted by law with the defence of the nation. This is impermissible,” said a bench led by justice Dhananjaya Y Chandrachud.It further ruled that the need for the development of national highways of a double lane standard is proportionate to the object of fulfilling the security concerns of the nation, as assessed by the ministry of defence (MoD).However, the bench, which also included justices Surya Kant and Vikram Nath, clarified that the court’s approval is subject to compliance by authorities with all remedial measures in relation to hill-cutting, and landslides; muck disposal; dust and pollution control; and impact on wildlife and water resources.The bench said that the recommendations made by the court-mandated high-powered committee (HPC) in July 2020 must be adhered to in order to make the project environmentally sustainable, especially in wake of the fact that “the remedial measures in relation to hill-cutting and landslides have been tardy and limited” so far.The court set up a three-member oversight committee, to be headed by former Supreme Court judge AK Sikri, that would monitor compliance by authorities with the recommendations made by HPC, and would report on the progress undertaken to it every four months.The other two members of the committee will be from the National Environmental Engineering Research Institute (NEERI) and Forest Research Institute, Dehradun.Several concerns have been raised about the environmental viability of the Char Dham road project. Environmentalists including members of the Supreme Court constituted high powered committee had last year flagged that the project had made constructions and felled trees based on a conditional stage 1 forest clearance. Geologists have flagged that hill cutting for the project has made the stretches extremely vulnerable to landslides and slope destabilisation.The bench said on Tuesday that at stake were not just benefits directly to the armed forces but “also the health of the environment, and its effects on all individuals who inhabit the area” and therefore, it was imperative that the road transport ministry and defence ministry be transparent in the measures they adopt, in order for them to be held publicly accountable.The court was deciding two applications by separate departments of the Centre, MoD and Ministry of Road, Transport and Highways (MoRTH) to modify the September 2020 order, which relied on a 2018 MoRTH circular providing for roads in hilly regions to be 5.5m wide. However, another circular in December 2020 modified it by allowing 7m width, with a 1.5m paved shoulder on either side of the highway, for feeder roads to the Indo-China border.Through attorney general (AG) KK Venugopal, the Centre stressed on the necessity of developing the feeder roads — Rishikesh to Mana (281km), Rishikesh to Gangotri (231 km) and Tanakpur to Pithoragarh (162 km) — for national security. Given the proximity of the roads to the Indo-China border, the AG, highlighted the necessity of free movement for transport of trucks, machines, equipment and personnel of the Indian Army while seeking a nod for double lane configuration for these roads.The Centre’s plea was opposed by NGO Citizens for Green Doon, on whose plea the road width was restricted to 5.5m. Senior advocate Colin Gonsalves, appearing for the NGO, argued that the present road infrastructure is sufficient to meet the needs of the Indian Army. Any further development, it was urged, must be balanced keeping in mind the fragility of the Himalayas, the excessive damage caused to the environment and the need to ensure disaster-resilient roads.The bench, however, allowed the Centre’s plea.“The allegation that the application filed by the MoD seeks to re-litigate the matter or subvert the previous order of this court are unfounded inasmuch as MoD, as the specialised body of the Government of India, is entitled to decide on the operational requirements of the armed forces. These requirements include infrastructural support needed for facilitating the movement of troops, equipment and machines,” it noted.The bench added that the bona fides of the MoD are also evident from the fact that the issue of security concerns was raised during the discussions of the HPC and finds mention in the HPC Report. Thus, the MoD has maintained the need for double-laned roads to meet border security concerns.“The appellants (NGO) would have this court hold that the need of the army will be subserved better by disaster resistant roads of a smaller dimension. The submission of the appellants requires the Court to override the modalities decided upon by the Army and the MoD to safeguard the security of the nation’s borders...This is impermissible,” it noted.It underscored the need to arrive at a delicate balance of environmental considerations such that they do not impede infrastructural development, specifically in areas of strategic importance crucial to the security of the nation.“We find that the need for the development of national highways of a DL-PS standard is proportionate to the object of fulfilling the security concerns of the nation as assessed by the MoD. This is reinforced by the fact that the roads beyond the highways in the Project, beyond Gangotri, Mana and Pithoragarh are being developed by the MoD as double laned highways,” held the bench.It also declined to bind the MoD with a statement made by the then Chief of the Army Staff General Bipin Rawat in 2019 in a media interview regarding the adequacy of infrastructure for troop movement, saying reliance on a media interview would be uncalled for given the consistent stand of the MoD during the deliberations of HPC and before the top court.“The security concerns as assessed by the MoD may change over time. The recent past has thrown up serious challenges to national security. The armed forces cannot be held down to a statement made during a media interaction in 2019 as if it were a decree writ in stone,” maintained the court.Experts said the verdict will adversely impact the environmental issues in the region.“It is very strange that the Supreme Court has given a judgement approving DL-PS road width standard while the MoD in their application had only asked for a double lane. The increase of road-width is directly proportional to the connected impacts. Thus by giving such a verdict the environmental issues have been severely/devastatingly exacerbated,” said Mallika Bhanot, environmentalist and member of Ganga Ahvaan.“We have already highlighted the concerns with geological instability of the road project. Now since the judgment has come, I will only add that the implementing authorities are conscious and understand the concerns and make a disaster resilient road for our defence personnel which will be very important for our national security,” said Navin Juyal, a retired geologist from the Physical Research Laboratory in Ahmedabad and member of high powered committee on Char Dham road project.In January this year, the high-powered committee in its report to the SC presented a divided opinion with the majority in favour of the wider roads on the Char Dham route, considering the strategic requirement and snow removal needs.The majority report also took into account the state government’s focus on reversing the migration in border areas by providing ample livelihood opportunities and ease of transportation, and said that the latest MoRTH circular on wider roads should be accepted.The majority report added it is not “feasible” to revisit the entire project where work is already completed and reduce the road width from 10 m to 5.5 m, underlining that it was “impractical” to reclaim the already tarred road because it will not be possible to grow trees on the excavated parts.
15-12-2021||India||India, Iran and Uzbekistan hold discussion on Chabahar port||India, Iran and Uzbekistan on Tuesday discussed the further development of the transit and transportation corridor centred round the Iranian port of Chabahar during a trilateral meeting on the joint use of the port on the Gulf of Oman.This was the second virtual meeting of the trilateral working group on the joint use of Chabahar port, and it was held exactly a year after the first meeting.“The participants underlined the important role played by Chabahar Port during humanitarian crises as well as in enhancing regional connectivity,” the external affairs ministry said in a statement. “They also took note of the increase in transit traffic between Central Asia and South Asia through the Shahid Behesti Terminal, Chabahar Port and discussed further development of transportation corridor,” the statement added, referring to the terminal at the port operated by the Indian company, India Ports Global Limited. The Taliban takeover of Afghanistan had triggered speculation about the viability of Chabahar port, but external affairs minister S Jaishankar told the Lok Sabha on Friday that the port had emerged as a commercial transit hub for the region and was a “more economical and stable route” for landlocked countries to reach India and the global market.The Indian side agreed to send a high-level delegation to Chabahar next year at the invitation of the Iranian side.
15-12-2021||India||NIA makes first arrest after taking over Mundra port drug seizure case||The National Investigation Agency (NIA) has arrested an Afghan national from South Delhi in connection with the 3,000 kg Afghan heroin seizure from Mundra port in September, officials said.The drug haul, worth ₹21,000 crore as estimated by agencies, was the largest ever seizure by Indian agencies. A narco-terror link is being probed in the delivery as it was sent to India from Kandahar after the Taliban’s takeover of Afghanistan.The federal anti-terror probe agency said in a statement that 28-year-old Sobhan Aryanfar was arrested from Neb Sarai in South Delhi on December 12 (Sunday). “During the investigation, the arrested Afghan national was found to be involved in the conspiracy of transporting narcotic drugs concealed in import consignment of semi-processed talc stones originating from Afghanistan. Further investigation in the case is going on,” read the statement.Prior to this, at least eight people, including Chennai couple Govindaraju Durga Purna Vaishali and Machavaram Sudhakar, who allegedly imported the heroin concealed in the semi-processed talc stones through their Vijaywada registered firm (Aashi Trading Company) from a Kandahar based company, four Afghan nationals, an Uzbek woman were arrested by the Directorate of Revenue and Intelligence (DRI).Vaishali and Sudhakar are said to be small players as they got only ₹10 lakh to ₹12 lakh commission for allegedly allowing to use their talc stones containers for smuggling heroin. A larger network of Afghan nationals is suspected to be behind the consignment, said an officer.The ministry of home affairs transferred the case to the NIA on October 6 to probe the Taliban-Pakistan angle. On October 12, the NIA raided residential premises of some suspects and godowns at Lajpat Nagar, Alipur, Khera Kalan in New Delhi and Noida.The consignment was intercepted by the DRI on September 14 and 15 on the basis of specific intelligence that high-quality heroin was being smuggled in two containers from Afghanistan to Gujarat’s Mundra port via Iran’s Bandar Abbas port. The two containers checked by the DRI had 1,999.58 kg and 988.64 kg heroin packed and layered between the talc to avoid detection by security and customs officials.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/nia-makes-first-arrest-after-taking-over-mundra-port-drug-seizure-case-101639493064921.html
