16-12-2021||India||Indian security agencies effective in disrupting terror threats: US report||Indian security agencies are effective in disrupting terror threats, but gaps remain in interagency intelligence and information sharing, the US state department said in its annual report on terrorism published Thursday. Citing several arrests by India’s National Investigative Agency (NIA), the country-wise report said that Indian counterterrorism forces actively detected and disrupted transnational and regional terrorist groups in 2020.The ‘Country Reports on Terrorism 2020: India’ mentioned multiple arrests of alleged al-Qaeda-affiliated operatives from Kerala and West Bengal, and of Abdul Karim, the second-in-command of Jamaat-ul-Mujahideen Bangladesh, on suspected involvement in serial bombings in Bodh Gaya in 2013.It stated that India responds “in a timely manner” to the requests made by the United States for information related to terrorism investigations and “makes efforts to mitigate threats” in response to the information shared by the US. According to the report, the collaborative efforts of India and the United States have disrupted terrorist travel and alerted American authorities about possible threats posed to the United States.“Officials remain concerned about internet use for terrorist recruitment and radicalization to violence, as well as for fomenting interreligious tensions. In 2020 there were multiple reports in the media and from the NIA of suspected cases of online terrorist radicalization, particularly in southern Indian states,” the report said.It highlighted the major terrorist groups that are active in India, including Pakistan-based Lashkar-e-Tayyiba and Jaish-e-Mohammed.“The Indian government made significant efforts to detect, disrupt, and degrade the operations of terrorist organizations within its borders,” the report further noted, adding that counterterrorism and security cooperation with the United States expanded in 2020.The country-wise report on Pakistan said that India’s neighbour took steps to counter terror financing and to restrain India-focused militant groups but made limited progress on its pledge to dismantle all terrorist organizations without delay or discrimination. It highlighted that Islamabad did not take steps under its domestic authorities to prosecute terrorist leaders residing in Pakistan, such as JeM founder Masood Azhar and LeT’s Sajid Mir, mastermind of the 2008 Mumbai attacks.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/us-says-india-effective-in-disrupting-terror-threats-highlights-pakistan-s-failure-101639676621600.html
16-12-2021||India||In rare move, Goa Congress 1st list of candidates is out before poll announcement||PANAJI: The Congress on Thursday released its first list of eight candidates including leader of opposition in Goa assembly and former chief minister Digambar Kamat.According to a Congress statement, Kamat will contest from Margao and MLA Aleixo Reginaldo Lourenço from Curtorim. The list does not include Pratapsingh Rane, the 82-year-old sitting MLA from Poriem who has been a lawmaker for close to five decades. It is not clear if he has indicated his reluctance to contest but he recently rebutted the BJP claims that he could move out of the party.The list of eight candidates makes the Congress the first party to declare its list even before the elections have been formally announced by the Election Commission. This is in line with party senior observer P Chidambaram’s assurance to Goa party leaders that there will be no repeat of the practice of declaring candidates at the last minute leaving them with little time to campaign ahead of the polls. Besides the sitting MLAs, the list includes Sudhir Kandolkar, who unsuccessfully contested the 2019 Mapusa by election against incumbent BJP MLA Joshua de Souza after the passing of Joshua’s father and deputy chief minister Francisco de Souza, Sankalp Amonkar who narrowly lost to sitting MLA Milind Naik by 46 votes in 2017, and Yuri Alemao, the son of former minister Joaquim Alemao (who served in the Digambar Kamat cabinet between 2007 and 2012) for Cuncolim. Yuri is also the nephew of Churchill Alemao who recently joined the TMC. Yuri contested the 2012 assembly elections but lost to the BJP’s Subhash Phaldessai. The new faces include Rajesh Verenkar who is tasked with winning the Ponda seat for the Congress after its MLA Ravi Naik defected to the BJP, Altone D’Costa in Quepem who has a similar task of regaining the seat for the Congress from Chandrakant Kavlekar who moved to the BJP along with 10 MLAs and Tony Rodrigues who will take on the Monserrate family in their stronghold of Taleigao. Rodrigues is a former confidante of Atanasio “Babush” Monserrate but broke ranks with him a few years earlier.The party’s decision to declare its first list has taken political observers by surprise given that the party has a reputation for waiting until the last minute often in a bid to stem rebellions and ensure that potential rebels have very little time to plan a strategy and contest the election.On the other hand, the practice of declaring candidates early leaves the party vulnerable to rival parties poaching their ‘official’ candidates.The party, however, has in its first list declared largely ‘non contentious’ candidates who do not have any notable challengers and who are largely expected to be loyal to the party, said a Goa Congress leader, who were not willing to be named.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/in-rare-move-goa-congress-1st-list-of-candidates-is-out-before-poll-announcement-101639676208130.html
16-12-2021||India||7 airports complete preliminary testing of Digi Yatra Biometric boarding system||Four airports of the Airports Authority of India (AAI)-- Varanasi, Pune, Kolkata and Vijayawada and three joint venture airports-- Hyderabad, Bangalore and New Delhi have completed preliminary testing of the Digi Yatra biometric boarding system, the government informed Parliament on Thursday.The Digi Yatra scheme will be implemented across various airports in a phased manner. It is planned to go live at selected airports in 2022, in its first phase, General VK Singh (retd), minister of state for civil aviation informed the Lower House. “Digi Yatra Central Ecosystem is aligned to the global processes of International Air Travel Association (IATA) pass for interoperability for seamless international travel,” he said. Singh had, last week, informed the parliament that the AAI is working on a project of FRT-based Biometric Boarding System as part of the first phase of Digi Yatra implementation at four airports.“While facial recognition technology (FRT) has not yet been introduced at any of the airports in India, the AAI is working on a project of FRT-based Biometric Boarding System as part of the first phase of Digi Yatra Implementation at four airports, including Varanasi, Pune, Kolkata, and Vijayawada,” Singh said. The minister said that for availing the Digi Yatra services, passengers would need to send the travel details (Pax details, PNR and Facial Biometrics) through an app to the biometric boarding system of the departing airport. Moreover, if for a particular journey, the passenger does not want to avail the Digi Yatra services then the passenger would have an option to not send the data and use the existing manual process at airports.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/7-airports-complete-preliminary-testing-of-digi-yatra-biometric-boarding-system-101639675789579.html
16-12-2021||India||BMC to take action against Alia Bhatt for allegedly defying quarantine rules||The health committee of the Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation will take action against actor Alia Bhatt for allegedly violating quarantine rules. The health committee said it has given instruction to local municipal officers to look into the allegation that the actor violated quarantine rules and to take necessary action, health committee chairperson Rajul Patel said, according to ANI.This comes at a time when there has been an outbreak of Covid infections among several Bollywood personalities. Kareena Kapoor Khan, Amrita Arora, Maheep Kapoor (Sanjay Kapoor's wife) and Seema Khan (Sohail Khan's wife) have tested Covid positive in the past few weeks. Several of their contacts, including Kareena Kapoor's maid, Seema Khan's son and Maheep Kapoor's daughter Shanaya Kapoor have also tested positive. However, Karan Johar and his family members have tested negative. According to reports, all of them reportedly attended Karan Johar's party to celebrate 20 years of Kabhi Khushi Kabhie Gham. Did any minister attend Karan Johar's party? BJP leader raises doubt after big Bollywood Covid outbreakAs BMC officials pressed into action sealing the building and sanitising their apartments, it was brought to their notice that Alia Bhatt was also in the party. Though the actor tested negative, she was advised to quarantine for 14 days, which she broke by travelling to Delhi and then again coming back to Mumbai. Reports said when BMC officials got to know that Alia travelled to Delhi, they contacted Alia's manager and advised that the actor then should quarantine in Delhi. But the actor returned to Mumbai late at night on Wednesday following the promotion of her upcoming movie Brahmastra.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/bmc-to-take-action-against-alia-bhatt-for-allegedly-defying-quarantine-rules-101639674527005.html
16-12-2021||India||Karnataka reports five more Omicron cases. All of them have international travel history||Karnataka reported five more cases of the Omicron variant on Thursday, said state health minister Dr K Sudhakar. Announcing the new cases in a tweet, the minister said that the patients had travel history to New Delhi, the United Kingdom, Nigeria and South Africa. A statement from the department of health and family welfare said that so far eight people have tested positive for the new variant in the state. “Of the eight cases, four pertain to international arrivals from at risk countries, three have travelled from Delhi and the remaining one case is related to possible contact with a foreigner/international traveller,” read the statement. “Except for one case, where the international traveller went back to South Africa, the remaining confirmed cases were in institutional isolation (at the hospital) and were treated as per the Government of India protocol. The current health status of these Omicron affected patients is good and no one has serious symptoms,” it added. According to the health department, patient number four is a 19-year-old woman who had travelled from the United Kingdom on December 13. She arrived in Bengaluru with a Covid-19 negative test report but tested positive at the airport. “(She was) shifted in an ambulance from the airport to Bowring Hospital on the same day. On the patient’s request (she was) shifted to a private hospital in a designated ward on December 14. The patient is asymptomatic and her vitals are stable and no primary contacts, as she travelled directly from the airport to the hospital,” read the statement. Patient number five had travelled from Nigeria to Bengaluru on December 13. The 52-year-old was screened and tested at the airport and tested positive. The statement said that despite testing positive, he was given permission to take a connecting flight to Belagavi two hours later. On arrival, he went into home isolation and was later shifted to the district hospital. Health department officials didn’t answer calls for a comment on why the patient was allowed to travel even after testing positive. The department statement said that two primary contacts have been tested, even though he travelled on a flight. Patient number six had arrived from New Delhi after attending a wedding in the capital city. “The 70-year-old woman was subjected to a RT-PCR on December 5 as she was a primary contact of an Omicron confirmed case in New Delhi. She has mild symptoms,” read the statement. Patient seven too had come from Delhi after attending the wedding. The 36-year-old man is asymptomatic. Both patients six and seven had travelled together. Two out of their three primary contacts have tested positive for Covid-19. Patient number eight, a 33-year-old man arrived in Bengaluru from South Africa after a layover at New Delhi. He was tested positive at the airport on December 9 and was asked to home isolate. He was hospitalised on December 10 after he showed mild symptoms and later was tested positive for Omicron. All his contacts have tested negative.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/karnataka-reports-five-more-omicron-cases-all-of-them-have-international-travel-history-101639674287971.html
16-12-2021||India||Who is 'Major Keen Kumar'? Purported video of jawan and PLA soldier goes viral||A purported video of a conversation between an Indian soldier and soldier believed to be of the People's Liberation Army has gone viral on social media. The video is undated and might be an old video apparently shot near the Line of Actual Control. The reason why the video has gone viral is the name with which the Indian soldier introduces himself.On being asked his name, the Indian soldier introduces him as 'Major Keen Kumar' and repeats the name as the PLA soldier has difficulty in understanding. Then the Indian soldier asks his name and the soldier says his name is 'Sung Sung Do'. Chinese soldier asks the indian officer, what’s your name? He replied, I am Major Keen Kumar 😬 #LAC pic.twitter.com/2CmdrV5QYjArmy Names during the Infantry courses : Maj Keen KumarCapt Chatak SinghCapt IM SmartAnyone any more names ? https://t.co/v4yrU5FlBSAll faujis to note Keen Kumar has finally been found. Tweet is in absolute lighter vein. Please don’t troll me with strategy, tactics, operational impact etc. Regards to all. @IAF_MCC @adgpi @indiannavy pic.twitter.com/wKAHLSUuIA While both the names could be made up, social media users, including defence experts, revelled at the name of 'Keen Kumar' which is actually a nickname used traditionally to hide identity. 'Lieutenant Keen', 'Captain Chatak Singh', 'Captain IM Smart' are other common names to conceal the identity, social media users of the defence field tweeted.Some social media users commented that it is also a tradition to refer to a curious officer as Major Keen Kumar. Since the PPE-clad Chinese soldier was curious to know the name of the Indian soldier, his reply was in reference to the keenness.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/who-is-major-keen-kumar-purported-video-of-jawan-and-pla-soldier-goes-viral-101639672288721.html
16-12-2021||India||With 4 new Omicron cases, Telangana's tally rises to 7||Telangana on Thursday reported four new cases of the Omicron Covid-19 variant, pushing the total number of such cases in the southern state to seven, the Telangana Information and Public Relations (IPR) Department shared on Twitter.Also Read | Telangana reports 2 cases of Omicron variantThe latest health department bulletin, as shared by the IPR Department on its Twitter account, showed that a total of 120 passengers were screened at Hyderabad's Rajiv Gandhi International (RGI) Airport upon arrival from countries designated by the Union health ministry as ‘at-risk’. Total 6764 such passengers have been tested at the RGIA, according to the bulletin. Media Bulletin on status of positive cases #COVID19 in Telangana. (Dated.16.12.2021 at 5.30pm)@TelanganaHealth #StaySafeStayHealthy pic.twitter.com/eDWHis5HrMAmong the passengers who returned positive test results, one arrived from an ‘at-risk' country, while the other three tested positive for it on random sampling basis from other than ‘at-risk’ countries.Telangana's neighbouring state in the south, Karnataka, too, witnessed a rise in its Omicron tally, to eight, with five arrivals yielding positive test results. Among these, a 36-year-old man and 70-year-old woman landed from Delhi, while three others flew in from abroad--the UK, Nigeria and South Africa.Also Read | Karnataka reports 5 more cases of Omicron Covid-19 variant, state tally reaches 8From December 20, pre-booking RT-PCR tests will be mandatory for visitors coming from all countries on India's ‘at-risk’ list. In the first phase, the system will be implemented at six major airports, including Hyderabad and Bengaluru, the others being Delhi, Mumbai, Chennai and Kolkata.Also Read | From Dec 20, pre-booking RT-PCR mandatory for arrivals from ‘at-risk’ countriesThe first Omicron infections were reported from southern Africa last month. The World Health Organization (WHO) subsequently designated it as a variant of concern (VoC). At last count, more than 77 countries, including India, had cases of this variant, as per the global health body.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/with-4-new-omicron-cases-telangana-s-tally-rises-to-7-101639670088893.html
16-12-2021||India||113 nations accept India's Covid vaccination certificate, 22 have mutual nod: Jaishankar at RS||As many as 113 nations have accepted India's Covid-19 vaccination certificate, with some of them having reached agreements for mutual recognition of certificates with the country, external affairs minister S Jaishankar informed the Rajya Sabha on Thursday. Explaining the matter, the minister said that those not having a mutual agreement of vaccine certificate recognition with India have individual norms that apply to all travellers who have been jabbed.Jaishankar pointed out that a “focal point” of India's diplomacy in recent months has been to recognise the requirement to facilitate travel, especially of “workers, professionals, students, business people, tourists, and those with families abroad,” according to news agency PTI.Also Read | Only ‘isolated’ cases of incorrect Covid-19 vaccine data entry: GovtThe number of 113 countries accepting India's Covid-19 vaccination certificate was recorded as of December 13, the minister added.Names of some countries that accept India's vaccination certificate:Jaishankar said at the moment, there is no “multilateral agreement” on connecting international travel with vaccination status. “Wherever nations have not instituted a protocol that facilitates travel by vaccinated Indians, the government has decided to reach bilateral understandings to that end,” he told the Rajya Sabha.Also Read | Shouldn't dismiss Omicron as 'mild', warns WHO official as variant spreads rapidlyHe further stated that till December 13, India has entered into agreements for mutual recognition of Covid-19 vaccine certificates with a total of 22 countries.Here are the names of all 22 nations as per external affairs ministry:||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/113-nations-accept-india-s-covid-vaccination-certificate-22-have-mutual-nod-101639670709740.html
16-12-2021||India||'Halal' or 'jhatka'? Punjab govt advised to make eateries disclose meat category||The National Commission for Minorities on Thursday directed the Punjab government to make hotels, restaurants and other eateries mandatorily disclose whether the meat they are serving is ‘halal’ or ‘jhatka’, the two most common ways of slaughtering animals or poultry in India. NCM Chairman Iqbal Singh Lalpura wrote to Punjab's chief secretary Anirudh Tewari directing him to advise all eateries to disclose the ‘category’ of the meat served by them.Lalpura noted that hotels and restaurants in Punjab are only serving halal meat which is prohibited in the Sikh religion. He said the mandatory disclosure would allow people to make an informed choice before they consume the meat."Accordingly, all hotels/restaurants may be advised to mandatorily disclose the category of the meat whether it is 'jhatka' butchering meat or 'halal' butchering meat at all eating joints to allow the public to make an informed choice before consumption," the letter read.“An early action in the matter shall be highly appreciated,” the NCM chief added.What is Kerala's 'halal' food controversy? ExplainedThe word ‘Halal’, in Arabic, literally means permissible and Halal food is that which adheres to Islamic law, as defined in the Koran.In the Halal form of slaughter, animals or poultry are killed by severing the major veins, arteries and windpipe without decapitation and are left till the blood drains out completely. According to the UK-based Halal Food Authority, an animal or poultry should be dead before slaughter and any flowing blood of the carcass should be completely drained.In the jhatka method, the animal is killed instantaneously.Earlier this year, a similar order was issued by the South Delhi Municipal Corporation (SDMC).(With PTI inputs)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/halal-or-jhatka-punjab-govt-advised-to-make-eateries-disclose-meat-category-101639670248101.html
16-12-2021||India||Bengal’s first Omicron patient, a 7-year-old boy, tests negative||The seven-year-old boy from Murshidabad district, who returned from abroad with his parents on December 10 and tested positive for the Omicron variant of the coronavirus in Hyderabad, tested negative on Thursday, Bengal health department officials said. The boy lives in Abu Dhabi with his family. His father is an aircraft maintenance engineer. The family’s ancestral home is at Beniagram in Murshidabad’s Farakka area. The boy’s sister and their parents also tested negative for the coronavirus a day after their samples were collected and they were admitted to a hospital, said Papri Nayek, chief medical officer of health of Malda district. The family landed in Hyderabad late on the night of December 10. Their samples were collected at the Hyderabad airport. Since the boy tested positive his swab sample was sent for genome sequencing although he showed no symptoms of the infection. The family took a flight to Kolkata on December 11 and drove to Kaliachak in Malda to visit some relatives instead of going home. “None in the family showed any symptoms of the infection. We have sought the state health department’s permission to release them from hospital,” said Nayek. “Samples are being collected from their relatives and neighbours,” she added. One of the uncles of the boy said, “My brother has come to India after two years with his wife and two children. We got very worried when we got to know that my nephew tested positive for the Omicron variant. The reports today showed that they are all safe.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/bengals-first-omicron-patient-a-7-year-old-boy-tests-negative-101639671287548.html
16-12-2021||India||News updates from HT: CBI files charge sheet against former Allahabad HC judge, and all the latest news||Here are today’s top news, analysis, and opinion at 9pm. Know all about the latest news and other news updates from Hindustan Times.CBI files charge sheet against Retd Justice Shri Narayan ShuklaThe Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI) has filed a charge sheet against retired Judge of the Allahabad high court - Justice Shri Narayan Shukla, and others in its judicial corruption probe involving Lucknow-based Prasad Institute of Medical Sciences, people familiar with the development said on Thursday. Read more…India in touch with Pakistan on modalities for shipping wheat as aid to AfghanistanIndia said on Thursday it continues to be in touch with Pakistan on modalities for supplying 50,000 tonnes of wheat as humanitarian assistance to Afghanistan via the Wagah land border crossing. Read more…IAF chopper crash: Tri-service inquiry likely to be completed in 2 weeksThe tri-service inquiry into the crash of the helicopter leading to 14 deaths, including that of India's first Chief of Defence Staff General Bipin Rawat, is likely to be completed within the next two weeks, news agency ANI reported citing government sources. Read more…BWF World Championships: Kidambi Srikanth advances to quarters, beats China's Lu Guangzu 21-10, 21-15Kidambi Srikanth advanced to the quarterfinals of the BWF World Championship in Huelva, Spain after defeating Chinese shuttler Lu Guangzu on Thursday. The former world number one closed the match in straight games (21-10, 21-15), which was more or less a one-sided affair. Read more…KBC 13: Amitabh Bachchan tells Neena Gupta he lies to Jaya Bachchan every day. Watch Gajraj Rao's reactionAmitabh Bachchan left everyone in splits up after he jokingly told Neena Gupta that he lies to his ‘partner’ - wife Jaya Bachchan - every day. Neena and her Badhaai Ho co-star Gajraj Rao appear as guests on Thursday's episode of Kaun Banega Crorepati 13. Read more…CRPF jawans turn ‘brothers’ for slain soldier’s sister, walk her to mandapThis is a story of how a few CRPF jawans stepped up to take up the role of ‘brothers’ when a slain soldier’s sister found herself missing her sibling on her wedding day. While attending the event, they walked her to the mandap. And a few pictures of the incident have left people emotional. Chances are, they'll have the same effect on you too. Read more…||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/news-updates-from-ht-cbi-files-charge-sheet-against-former-allahabad-hc-judge-and-all-the-latest-news-101639666172339.html
16-12-2021||India||Supreme Court to hear appeals for Tamil Nadu’s Vanniyar quota law on Feb 15-16||NEW DELHI: The Supreme Court on Thursday directed the Tamil Nadu government not to make any fresh appointments or admissions under the special law providing 10.5% reservation to Vanniyars, a most backward class (MBC) community, after the state law passed in February this year was struck down as unconstitutional by the Madras high court on November 1.For now, the court has, however, protected all appointments and admissions made by the government before the high court ruling.Nearly 75,000 students have been granted admission availing the benefit of this law.“Appointments already made shall not be disturbed. No appointments or admissions shall be made till February 15,” a bench of justices L Nageswara Rao, BR Gavai and BV Nagarathna said as it issued notice on a set of appeals challenging the high court decision filed by the Tamil Nadu government and Pattali Makkal Katchi (PMK) – a political outfit in the state representing the interests of the Vanniyakula Kshatriyas who benefit from this law.The Supreme Court posted the matter for hearing on February 15 and 16, and told the lawyers appearing in the case that no adjournment shall be granted considering the “importance” of the issue that has implications on the future of students admitted under this law. A host of lawyers appeared in favour of the law with the state government being led by senior advocate Abhishek Manu Singhvi.Tamil Nadu passed a law to grant 10.5% reservation for Vanniyars within the already available 20% quota for MBCs in February this year just before the state was hearing into state elections. This law was challenged before the top court and the Madras high court simultaneously. In July, the top court refused to stay the law while allowing the hearing before the high court to go on.The high court ruled that the 10.5% quota law passed by the previous All India Anna Dravida Munnetra Kazhagam (AIADMK) led assembly the day state elections were announced, was illegal because of a lack of quantifiable data to measure the “extreme backwardness” of the Vanniyars.The petition filed by the Tamil Nadu government said that MBCs were identified in Tamil Nadu as early as 1957 as equivalent to scheduled castes but without the factor of untouchability. In 2012, much after the enactment of the 1994 law providing 20% reservation for MBCs, the Tamil Nadu backward classes commission was asked by the state government to grant internal reservation within the 20% quota.The commission chairman alone recommended for 10.5% quota for Vanniyar Kshatriya. Later this recommendation was revisited by the state backward classes commission in February 2021 which gave the go-ahead for implementing a 10.5% Vanniyar quota within the MBC quota, causing disgruntlement among other MBCs and de-notified communities, otherwise entitled to these benefits.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/supreme-court-to-hear-appeals-for-tamil-nadu-s-vanniyar-quota-law-on-feb-1516-101639668047377.html
16-12-2021||India||India in touch with Pakistan on modalities for shipping wheat as aid to Afghanistan||India said on Thursday it continues to be in touch with Pakistan on modalities for supplying 50,000 tonnes of wheat as humanitarian assistance to Afghanistan via the Wagah land border crossing. New Delhi made the proposal for shipping wheat and medicines via Pakistani soil on October 7, and received a response from Islamabad only on November 24. On December 3, Pakistan said it would allow Indian relief materials to be shipped via the Wagah crossing only in Afghan trucks. India intends to hand over the wheat to the World Food Programme (WFP), the food assistance branch of the UN, since New Delhi doesn’t recognise the Taliban setup in Kabul. On December 11, India despatched 1.6 tonnes of life-saving medicines on a special charter flight to Kabul and the supplies were handed over to representatives of the World Health Organization (WHO). India continues to be “in touch with Pakistani authorities on the modalities for supplying the 50,000 tonnes of wheat and other medical supplies” as humanitarian assistance to the people of Afghanistan, external affairs ministry spokesperson Arindam Bagchi told a regular media briefing. “It’s a complex operation and I would request you to be patient,” he said, without giving details. Bagchi reiterated India’s “special relationship” with the Afghan people, and said the approach of India and the world community to the situation in Afghanistan is guided by UN Security Council resolution 2593. India will continue providing humanitarian aid to the Afghan people and is committed to send more medicines, medical supplies and wheat, he said. People familiar with the matter said Pakistan has told the Indian side that the entire consignment of wheat should be transported within December. The wheat is to be carried from Wagah by trucks that bring Afghan products to the Indian side. The people said only 30 to 40 Afghan trucks currently make the daily trip to Wagah and it is unlikely that 50,000 tonnes of wheat can be sent via the land route by the end of this month, the people said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/india-in-touch-with-pakistan-on-modalities-for-shipping-wheat-as-aid-to-afghanistan-101639667207268.html
16-12-2021||India||Online scammers target 'prominent' Indian women journalists with promises of jobs at Harvard: Report||Several prominent female journalists and media personalities in India including ex-NDTV anchor Nidhi Razdan have been targeted by online scammers with promises of prestigious jobs at Harvard, the New York Times reported on Thursday.While the identity of the scammers remains a mystery, the incidents have raised questions about why Harvard — despite its reputation for fiercely protecting its brand — "did not act to stop the scam, even after being explicitly warned about it" by one of the victims, the Times said.Another target was a spokeswoman for the ruling Bharatiya Janata Party, Nighat Abbass. When the scammers pushed for her passport details and other personal information, she checked directly with one of the Harvard administrators included on the emails.That administrator, Bailey Payne, a programme coordinator in the office of Harvard’s vice provost for international affairs, responded, saying the official invitation that appeared to have been sent from her Harvard.edu email address was fake.When Payne asked Abbass if she would like to share more information, Abbass sent in a trove - the phone number from the U.A.E., the emails, screenshots of the fake Harvard documents and hotel booking records. But it’s not clear what action, if any, Harvard took, the Times said.Payne did not respond to requests for comment. Jason Newton, a Harvard spokesman, declined to comment on what the university did with the information Abbass provided, the paper said.The first known target was outspoken female journalist Rohini Singh, who received a Twitter message from someone calling himself Tauseef Ahmad in mid-August 2019.Ahmad invited her to participate in a high-powered media conference. Harvard would pick up all expenses. She, however, grew suspicious after Ahmad connected her to a colleague, introduced as Alex Hirschman, who wrote to her from a Gmail account rather than an official Harvard.edu email address. Singh ceased communication.The next target was another female journalist, Zainab Sikander, who too received a Twitter message on August 22, 2019 from Ahmad, inviting her to participate in a high-powered media conference at Harvard. It was the same message sent to Singh, the Times said.When she asked for a formal invite from a dean, it never came. Sikander then broke off contact as well.The next target was another female journalist working at a prominent Indian publication. Speaking on the condition of anonymity, she said she quickly broke off contact after getting suspicious about the scammer’s U.A.E. phone number.In late November 2019, the hackers were well practised when they reached out to Razdan, a news anchor at the apex of her career.She received the first email on November 14, 2019, from an earnest sounding student - Melissa Reeve - inviting her to a Harvard media seminar. She was then introduced, by email, to another student, Tauseef Ahmad. When he said there might be a journalism job available at Harvard, Razdan let her hopes soar.The next thing Razdan knew, she was interviewing with someone claiming to be Bharat Anand, the name of a real vice provost at Harvard. She never saw him, though. The interview was by phone."This is where I feel I really messed up,” she said. “I should have insisted it be a video call.”The scammers were taking bolder steps to impersonate Harvard. They bought a website from GoDaddy, HarvardCareer.com, in January 2020 and set up a Microsoft email server that would soon allow them to send messages stamped with Harvard’s name. Unlike earlier owners of the domain, they opted for privacy protection that obscured their names from public registries of website owners, the Times said.Razdan was then asked for references. Each of the people Razdan enlisted received an official looking email from HarvardCareer.com with a web link to upload a recommendation.Harvard says it fiercely protects its trademark, employing software to detect new websites that infringe on its brand, but Newton, the university spokesman, declined to say if it had detected HarvardCareer.com, the Times said.The scammers continued to use it to send emails, capitalising on Harvard’s reputation. They also copied employment documents from Harvard’s official website, using them as fodder as the scam advanced, the Times said.In February 2020, right before Covid-19 exploded across the world, Razdan was told the job was hers. She received a lengthy contract that included everything from arbitration clauses to details about dental insurance. In June 2020, she announced to the world, via Twitter, about her move to join Harvard University’s Faculty of Arts and Sciences as an Associate Professor teaching journalism.Online classes were supposed to start in September. Right before classes were to begin, she received an email saying there was a delay because of Covid-19. The scammers would use the pandemic many times as an excuse for delays or slip-ups.They also asked her to install Team Viewer, which is software that enables computers to connect to each other. Team Viewer would allow the scammers to access files on her laptop, but Razdan didn’t know that. Trying to be helpful, she downloaded the software.The scammers played off Razdan’s eagerness to connect with faculty members. Several times they invited her to do a video call with Emma Densch, a real dean at Harvard. But the calls kept getting cancelled at the last minute.By December, Razdan began to get annoyed at what she thought was flakiness. She reached out to officials in Harvard’s human resources department. They didn’t write back. She then emailed Densch’s office directly, asking about the cancelled video calls.Densch’s assistant wrote back that Razdan was never on the dean’s schedule. The assistant then asked: Who were you talking to? Razdan sent in a flurry of correspondence, including her signed contract.That’s when she received the shocking email in the middle of the night.Just like Abbass, she urged Harvard to investigate, emailing the university that “Someone/group of people have been impersonating senior Harvard officials and forging their signatures, and must be brought to book.”She said Harvard never wrote back, the Times reported.She turned to Jiten Jain, the director of a cybersecurity firm in India called Voyager Infosec, to perform a forensic analysis of her laptop and devices. Jain, who shared his findings with The New York Times, said Razdan’s email account had likely been hacked. Worse, Jain found remnants of a suspicious installer file on her computer, a sign that malware may have been installed.Razdan has filed an FIR with the Delhi Police which is investigating the hoax. It is still uncertain why Razdan and the other women were targeted, according to the Times report.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/online-scammers-target-prominent-indian-women-journalists-with-promises-of-jobs-at-harvard-report-101639666569807.html
16-12-2021||India||IAF chopper crash: Tri-service inquiry likely to be completed in 2 weeks||The tri-service inquiry into the crash of the helicopter leading to 14 deaths, including that of India's first Chief of Defence Staff General Bipin Rawat, is likely to be completed within the next two weeks, news agency ANI reported citing government sources. The investigation is being headed by Air Marshal Manvendra Singh. A Brigadier-rank officer each from the Indian Army and the Indian Navy are also there in the investigation team. Work to find out what caused the copter crash began a day after the accident.The constitution of the tri-service inquiry was announced by defence minister Rajnath Singh in Parliament, a day after the tragic crash. The Indian Air Force urged people to not speculate over the reason for the crash based on misinformation.According to the information given out by the defence ministry, there was no SOS from the copter which flew from Sulur airbase at 11.48am on December 8. It was scheduled to reach its destination, the Wellington airbase, at 12.15pm. The ministry said the Sulur airbase lost contact with the helicopter at around 12.08pm, minutes before the copter was to land.Soon after the tragic crash, a video of apparently the final moment of the copter appeared on social media. The videographer, a local wedding photographer who went to that area to take photos, said the weather at that time was very bad. In the video too, the copter was seen vanishing amid the fog.Several people have been arrested in the aftermath of the incident for making objectionable comments regarding the death of the defence personnel. IAF Group Captain Varun Singh was the lone survivor of the crash until Wednesday when he succumbed to his injuries, after battling for a week.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/iaf-chopper-crash-tri-service-inquiry-likely-to-be-completed-in-2-weeks-101639666004285.html
16-12-2021||India||Group Captain Varun Singh's body reaches Bhopal, last rites tomorrow||The last rites of Group Captain Varun Singh, who was the only survivor of the Indian Air Force (IAF) chopper crash in Tamil Nadu, will be performed on Friday, news agency PTI reported. The ritual will be performed at the Bairagarh cremation ground in Bhopal at around 11am.Earlier in the day, the mortal remains of Singh reached the Bhopal airport from Bengaluru where he was admitted to the Command Hospital. The group captain, who was battling for life since December 8 and was on life support, succumbed to his injuries on Wednesday. With his demise, all those that were on board the IAF helicopter on December 8 lost their lives due to the tragic incident. India's first chief of defence staff (CDS) General Bipin Rawat and his wife Madhulika Rawat were among the 13 individuals who were killed in the crash.The mortal remains of Singh arrived in Bhopal on a special plane at around 3pm, the PTI report stated. Madhya Pradesh chief minister Shivraj Singh Chouhan along with state medical education minister Vishvash Sarang, and several military and IAF officials paid tribute to the group captain at the airport.
16-12-2021||India||CBI files charge sheet against Retd Justice Shri Narayan Shukla||The Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI) has filed a charge sheet against retired Judge of the Allahabad high court - Justice Shri Narayan Shukla, and others in its judicial corruption probe involving Lucknow-based Prasad Institute of Medical Sciences, people familiar with the development said on Thursday. The charge sheet was filed earlier this week in the court of Special Judge Anil Kumar Sisodia at Rouse Avenue Court in Delhi under the prevention of corruption act and criminal conspiracy charges. The court had listed the matter for December 20. As first reported by HT on November 12, the central probe agency has sought prosecution sanction against Shukla upon completing the investigation. The government accorded the sanction in November last week, enabling the CBI to submit the charge sheet in court. Officials who didn’t want to be named said they have presented “sufficient evidence” against Justice (Retd) Shukla and others in the final report (charge sheet). Shukla, who retired from the service in July 2020, is accused of taking a bribe for passing an order that favoured the Lucknow-based medical college, which was debarred in May 2017 from admitting students by the Medical Council of India (MCI), the country’s medical education regulator.He was under investigation for criminal conspiracy, sections of the prevention of corruption act which deal with accepting bribes, and criminal misconduct along with retired Odisha high court judge IM Quddusi, Bhagwan Prasad Yadav, and Palash Yadav of Prasad Education Trust, an intermediary, Bhawana Pandey and another alleged middleman Sudhir Giri.In all, two First Information Reports (FIRs) were filed in the Prasad Education Trust matter - first in September 2017 naming Quddusi and middlemen and another in December 2019. In its first charge sheet filed in July 2019, the agency claimed that accused persons including Quddusi used code words such as ped (plant), gamla (pot), samaan (goods) and prasad (offering) while referring to bribes allegedly to be paid to a certain “captain” to get a favourable order for Prasad Institute. The agency had attached 80 telephone intercepts of Quddusi and other accused which revealed the whole conspiracy.According to CBI, the Lucknow-based medical college was debarred by MCI from admitting students for academic years 2017-18 and 2018-19 due to substandard facilities and non-fulfilment of required criteria along with 46 other medical colleges.The MCI decision was initially challenged by Prasad Institute before the Supreme Court. CBI’s FIR said a conspiracy was hatched and the petition was withdrawn from the top court, and a writ petition was filed before the Lucknow bench of Allahabad High Court on August 24, 2017.It added that Quddusi and BP Yadav of Prasad Trust met justice Shukla on the morning of August 25, 2017, at his residence in Lucknow, which is when the bribe is believed to have been exchanged. CBI alleged the petition was heard the same day by the division bench of the high court comprising justice SN Shukla and a favourable order was passed.Former Chief Justice of India Dipak Misra ordered an investigation against Shukla on a complaint by Uttar Pradesh advocate general Raghvendra Singh alleging judicial malpractice. A three-member committee comprising then Madras high court chief justice Indira Banerjee, then Sikkim high court chief justice SK Agnihotri and Madhya Pradesh high court judge PK Jaiswal, found Shukla guilty of judicial irregularities in January 2018 after which his impeachment was recommended to the President of India.Shukla, who was a sitting judge at the Lucknow bench of the Allahabad HC at the time, was debarred from entering the court premises and all the judicial and administrative work was taken away from him.Later, in July 2019, former CJI Ranjan Gogoi gave permission to CBI to file a case in the matter. Gogoi also wrote to Prime Minister Narendra Modi recommending Shukla’s removal. Shukla eventually retired in July 2020.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/cbi-files-charge-sheet-against-retd-justice-shri-narayan-shukla-101639665527127.html
16-12-2021||India||Supreme Court revives bullock cart race in Maharashtra||The Supreme Court on Thursday permitted the Maharashtra government to conduct the bullock cart race, a traditional sport banned in the state by the Bombay high court in October 2017, which held such races inflict cruelty on animals as bulls were classified as ‘non-performing animals’ under the Prevention of Cruelty to Animals (PCA) Act of 1960.To overcome the legal hurdle posed by the PCA Act, the Maharashtra government came out with a state amendment along with rules for conducting the bullock-cart races under monitoring of the district collector along with a veterinary doctor. This law was stalled by the high court in October 2017 as the Court followed a Supreme Court judgment delivered in 2014 by which use of bulls for any sport or race was prohibited.Senior advocate Mukul Rohatgi appearing for Maharashtra showed the Court that bullock cart races, known by other names, is allowed in Karnataka and Tamil Nadu, under similar state laws passed by the respective state governments which were not stayed by the Supreme Court when separate petitions challenging them were filed before the top court in November-December 2017. In February 2018, the laws passed by the three states permitting bullock cart races were referred to a Constitution bench of five judges to ascertain whether they fall foul of the 2014 SC judgment.Agreeing with the state, the bench of Justices AM Khanwilkar, Dinesh Maheshwari and CT Ravikumar said, “It does not appeal to common sense that all across the country, bullock cart race is permitted but not in one state. This court had applied its mind to these laws while referring the matter to Constitution bench….We are on a limited issue whether to stop the race across the country or permit it for Maharashtra as well.”Maharashtra had filed an application through advocate Sachin Patil for vacating the stay imposed by the high court. It attached an expert committee report which said that a special breed of bulls which are anatomically slender can run and such bulls are trained and fed by families since time immemorial to participate in the race.The bench set aside the HC judgment and said, “Unless there are changed circumstances, we see no reason why similar treatment should not be extended to all states where the same dispensation applies with regard to the amended provisions of law.”The state’s application was objected to by NGOs and individuals opposed to bullock cart races. Senior advocate Anand Grover appearing for one such NGO said that the 2014 judgment by the top court held such races to be illegal and the state laws do not overcome the “unconstitutionality” imposed by that judgment. The Court said that this aspect would be gone into by the constitution bench and allowed parties to approach the chief justice of India (CJI) for urgent hearing of the matter listed before the larger bench.Grover said, “For four years, the state was not allowed to hold this race…the species they are claiming are meant for running form only 4% of the racing bulls.” The bench said, “For 400 years, they have been running. This has been a traditional sport and now you realize, it is a matter of cruelty.” The Court allowed the applications opposing the state plea to give suggestions on how best to regulate these races while having regard to the interest of animals.It was in July 2017, the Maharashtra PCA (Maharashtra amendment) Act and the Maharashtra PCA (conduct of bullock cart race) rules were introduced permitting bull to be a performing animal. The state had claimed that till the Supreme Court determines the validity of its laws, it should receive the same treatment as other states which passed similar laws.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/supreme-court-revives-bullock-cart-race-in-maharashtra-101639664507087.html
16-12-2021||India||Shouldn't dismiss Omicron as 'mild', warns WHO official as variant spreads rapidly||The cases of the Omicron strain should not be dismissed as mild as it appears to be spreading faster than any other variants of concern, a World Health Organization (WHO) official said on Thursday. In an interview with news agency ANI, Dr Poonam Khetrapal Singh, Regional Director, WHO South-East Asia, cautioned about the virulence of the Omicron variant that is rapidly spreading across the world, causing concern for health authorities."Based on the current limited evidence, Omicron appears to be spreading faster at a rate not seen with any other previous variant. Emerging data from South Africa suggest an increased risk of re-infection with Omicron, but more data are needed to draw firmer conclusions,” ANI quoted Dr Singh as saying.The WHO official stressed that the overall threat posed by the new variant of concern depends on the transmissibility, immune escape ability and virulence of the strain. She said there are still limited data on the clinical severity associated with Omicron and more information is required to fully understand the clinical scenario of those infected with the variant of concern first detected in South Africa."We should not dismiss Omicron as mild. Even if Omicron does cause less severe disease, the sheer number of cases could once again overwhelm health systems," the WHO official added.A similar concern was raised by British Prime Minister Boris Johnson earlier this week when he confirmed the first death in the UK due to Omicron. Amid reports of the new variant of concern causing mild disease as compared to the Delta strain, Johnson said the “idea” of Omicron being the “milder version” should be set aside and focus should be on the transmissibility of the variant."So I think the idea that this is somehow a milder version of the virus - I think that's something we need to set on one side - and just recognise the sheer pace at which it accelerates through the population," Johnson told reporters.Citing preliminary data, Dr Singh said the vaccines may have reduced effectiveness against Omicron, but added that it will take “a few more weeks” to fully assess the efficacy of Covid vaccines against the new variant of concern. She reminded that vaccines alone won’t help countries come out of the pandemic and other proven public health and social measures must be followed."The risk of Covid-19 remains high globally and the emergence of variants is a reminder that the pandemic is far from over,” she said, as quoted by ANI.(With agency inputs)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/shouldnt-dismiss-omicron-as-mild-warns-who-official-as-variant-spreads-rapidly-101639662564235.html
16-12-2021||India||Better waste management can reduce air pollution load during Delhi’s winter||New Delhi: Empowered communities, strict enforcement and more efficient municipal waste collection. Experts say that these are among measures that can lead to an improvement of Delhi’s problematic air quality by curbing the open burning of municipal solid waste across the city. The national capital’s shortcomings in its waste collection and pollution crisis are intrinsically linked and the connection becomes much more visible as temperatures drop and the wind speed slows down.
16-12-2021||India||'Can't breathe': Conman Sukesh Chandrashekhar who ran extortion racket from jail says he's being harassed at Tihar||Alleged conman Sukesh Chandrashekhar, accused of several cases of cheating, extortion and money laundering amounting to hundreds of crores has now approached the Patiala House Court saying that he is being mentally troubled and pressurised in Tihar jail, ANI reported. In a hand-written application, the businessman told the court that four CCTVs are always watching and he is double locked. "I can't walk inside my prison when I am double-locked and can't breathe properly too," Sukesh's application stated.Chief metropolitan magistrate Dr Pankaj Sharma heard his grievance as Sukesh was produced at the court in connection with another cheating case. The metropolitan magistrate asked Sukesh's advocates to move a formal application in the court. In his plea, the conman also wrote that he is not allowed to speak to anyone and other inmates at Tihar are not allowed to speak to him.How did conman Sukesh Chandrashekhar befriend actor Jacqueline Fernandez? Using Jayalalithaa, home ministry's nameSukesh Chandrashekhar is linked to several high-profile fraud cases, the latest being duping the spouses of former promoters of Ranbaxy, Shivinder Singh, and Malvinder Singh, of ₹200 crore. One of his earlier cases was duping an AIADMK leader of ₹2 crore on the pretext of helping his party retain its two leaves symbol by bribing the Election Commission.Actors Jacqueline Fernandez, Nora Fatehi have also been linked with the businessman as they have received expensive gifts from him.Running extortion racket from Tihar jailInvestigation into the ₹200 crore extortion revealed that it took place when Sukesh was in Rohini jail. Paying hefty money to jail officers, Chandrashekhar was operating the racket and living inside the jail like a 'king'. Reports said he was given an entire barrack and was allowed to cover all CCTV cameras. He was also using his mobile freely for a year. Action was taken against the jail officials who were involved in his racket.Modus Operandi: Spoofing app to impersonate government officialsTracking maximum cases of Sukesh Chandrashekhar, investigators have found out that he fools his targets posing as government officials. Reports said he had a spoofing app through which he could impersonate government officials and politicians. In the latest ₹200 crore scam, Sukesh trapped the spouses of the ex-Ranbaxy promoters as the wives used to make frequent visits to see the husbands.It has now come to the fore that Sukesh got in touch with Jacqueline claiming that he was calling from the home ministry. He also said he was from the family of Jayalalithaa.Who is Sukesh Chandrashekhar?Sukesh Chandrashekhar is a conman based in Bengaluru. He started conning people at a young age and amassed a huge amount of property to fulfil his wish of leading a lavish lifestyle. His racket was spread in many cities including Chennai, Mumbai. His properties recently seized by ED include a sea-facing bungalow in Chennai, ₹82.5 lakh cash and several luxury cars.One of his many incidents of fraud is taking money from a company promising to bring Katrina Kaif to an event and then vanishing.His wife Leena Maria Paul was also involved in his fraud businesses. What is known about her is that she did some modelling and wanted to be successful in the film industry.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/cant-breathe-conman-sukesh-chandrashekhar-from-who-ran-extortion-racket-from-jail-says-he-s-being-harassed-at-tihar-101639661179730.html
16-12-2021||India||Road accident database, available in 14 states till now, to be rolled out nationwide: Govt||The Integrated Road Accident Database (IRAD), in which live data related to mishaps can be entered, will now be rolled out to all states and Union territories of India, ministry of road transport and highways informed the Parliament on Thursday. It said that the Centre is also in the process of setting up a National Road Safety Board, news agency ANI reported.The IRAD was till now available in 14 states and UTs, including Karnataka, Tamil Nadu, Uttar Pradesh, Rajasthan, Madhya Pradesh, Telangana, Odisha, Meghalaya, Goa, Chhattisgarh, Mizoram, Kerala, Maharashtra and Puducherry.According to the road transport ministry, the road safety board shall be responsible for advising the Centre as well as the states on advocating road safety, innovation and adoption of new technology and also for regulating motor and traffic vehicles.Also Read | Centre issues draft norms to make bus terminals, stops more accessibleMeanwhile, Union road transport minister Nitik Gadkari told the Parliament that as many as 3,564 road accidents occurred in India due to potholes in 2020. The figures witnessed a sharp drop from 2019 when 4,775 road accidents were recorded in the country due to potholes.On Thursday, the road transport ministry stated that road accidents take place owing to several reasons such as over speeding, mobile phone usage, drunken driving, consumption of drugs, vehicular condition, poor light, jumping red lights, weather conditions and overloaded vehicles, among others.However, the ministry pointed out that no separate data is maintained for accidents happening due to road engineering.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/road-accident-database-to-be-rolled-out-in-all-states-govt-tells-parliament-101639656046697.html
16-12-2021||India||As farm protests end, the two men Delhi Police wanted, but could never catch||The Delhi borders of Singhu, Tikri and Ghazipur are now empty, the farmers that occupied them back home after twelve full months, even if the administration is yet to fully open them up to traffic. Over the past year, their success in making the Centre bow to their demand on the repeal of the three farm laws notwithstanding, this was also a year when the protesters faced action from the Delhi police. From alleging the involvement of Khalistani separatist groups and members of others banned organisation, to mentioning the names of environmental activists Greta Thunberg and Disha Ravi, the Delhi police filed cases against over two hundred protesters and arrested at least 143 people.
16-12-2021||India||Covid-19: Home secretary chairs meet to review preparedness in Union territories||Union home secretary Ajay Bhalla chaired a meeting on Thursday to review the Covid-19 situation in Union territories, the ministry of home affairs (MHA) said, adding that during the meeting, the preparedness of the UTs to deal with the pandemic was reviewed as well.“Union Home Secretary chaired meeting today along with Union Health Secretary to review Covid-19 situation in UTs. Preparedness of health infrastructure of all UTs to deal with COVID-19 was also reviewed,” spokesperson, MHA, shared on Twitter.
16-12-2021||India||Homecoming: India’s mission to bring back its lost artefacts||New Delhi: When Prime Minister Narendra Modi returned to India after a three-day visit to the United States (US) in September, he brought along good news on the repatriation of antiquities front.
16-12-2021||India||Over 32,000 RTI appeals pending with Central Information Commission: Govt||More than 32,000 RTI appeals are pending with the Central Information Commission, the Rajya Sabha was informed on Thursday.In a written reply, Minister of State for Personnel Jitendra Singh said there was a pendency of 35,178 and 38,116 RTI appeals during 2019-20 and 2020-21, respectively.A total of 32,147 RTI appeals were pending in 2021-22, as on December 6, 2021, he said.Singh said the government has taken several steps like capacity building through training and issuance of guidelines for Public Information Officers and First Appellate Authorities, so as to enable them to supply information/dispose of first appeal effectively, resulting in less number of appeals to the information commission.The government has also issued clarificatory orders impressing upon the public authorities to disclose maximum information proactively so that citizens need not resort to filing of Right to Information (RTI) applications to access information available with the public authorities, he said.The Department of Personnel and Training is implementing an annual programme 'Improving Transparency and Accountability in Government through Effective Implementation of RTI Act' wherein state administrative training institutes (ATIs) and State Information Commissions (SICs) have been given financial assistance for awareness generation on RTI by taking up various activities which may include 'nukkad natak' (street plays), use of local folk troupes, development of publicity material in local languages, distance learning programmes, online certificate courses in regional languages, among others, the minister added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/over-32-000-rti-appeals-pending-with-central-information-commission-govt-101639657691173.html
16-12-2021||India||Jharkhand shooting champion dies by suicide in Bengal; fourth Indian shooter in four months||Konica Layak, Jharkhand’s 10-metre air rifle state champion of 2020, was found hanging inside a women’s hostel at Bally in Howrah district on Wednesday morning, police said. 28-year-old Layak -- who became famous after actor-turned philanthropist Sonu Sood gave her a new rifle for training earlier this year -- left a suicide note in which she wrote about failing to fulfill her parents’ dreams, an officer from the Bally police station said on condition of anonymity. Layak suffered a setback in October when she was disqualified for the national championship at the G V Mavalankar pre-national event on charges of tampering the target, her coach, former Olympian and Arjuna awardee Joydeep Karmakar, told HT. “Layak is the fourth Indian shooter to die by suicide in four months. Three shooters from Punjab shot themselves with their own firearms since September. This is definitely a bad time for the nation’s shooting sports fraternity. Maybe psychologists can throw more light on this,” Karmakar said. Finding training facilities in Jharkhand inadequate, Layak joined Karmakar’s training institute in Kolkata in July this year. She used to stay with other roommates at the women’s hostel in Bally and visit her family occasionally. “Layak apparently hanged herself after her roommates left for work. The body has been sent for post-mortem. Members of her family have come from Jharkhand,” said a police officer. “I got to know about Layak only after I read in the newspapers that Sood was moved by her troubles and got her a new rifle. We contacted her and asked her to come over for training. We reduced her training fees by 50%. Her skills were quite raw when we took her on board,” said Karmakar. “I cannot believe that she can die by suicide. Layak always wore a charming smile. She was neither an extrovert, nor an introvert. There are around 300 students in my institute. It is difficult to say what is going on inside their minds but Layak never appeared to be a person suffering from depression. The setback at Mavalankar was definitely a humiliation but that happened two months ago,” said Karmakar. “Around 20 years ago, a shooter was suspended for two years on a similar charge. I do not know if the national shooting sports authorities were planning a similar step in her case. After all, she represents Jharkhand,” said Karmakar. “Three shooters from Punjab have died by suicide since September. This is the fourth incident,” said Karmakar. In September, Namanveer Singh Brar, who won a bronze at the World University Games, killed himself in Mohali. In October, Hunardeep Singh Sohal, who was a state-level shooter, shot himself. Khushseerat Kaur Sandhu, who participated in the Junior World Championships, died by suicide on December 8. The police learnt from Layak’s parents that she went to Chittaranjan in West Burdwan district earlier this week to attend a friend’s wedding. 
16-12-2021||India||When AIIMS had confirmed Sheena Bora was strangled to death||The sensational claim of Indrani Mukerjea that her daughter Sheena Bora is alive and is in J&K has brought the six-year-old Sheena Bora murder case again in news. According to an ANI report, Indrani Mukerjea, the prime accused of the murder which took place in 2012 and came to the surface in 2015, has written to the CBI asking the agency to look for Sheena Bora in J&K. CBI was investigating the case since 2015 and in 2021 it told the Bombay high court that it will not be investigating the case further as according to its investigation Indrani Mukerjea killed Sheena Bora as Sheena was threatening to reveal Indrani Mukerjea's identity that Indrani was her mother, not elder sister, as Indrani used to introduce her.Reports said investigators are not taking Indrani Mukerjea's claim seriously as this might be a ploy to buy some time in the case. In November, Indrani had applied for bail after the CBI said it won't investigate the case further. The bail plea was dismissed by the high court.In 2015, when the spine-chilling murder case came to the surface after Indrani Mukerjea's ex-driver was arrested by the Mumbai Police in another case, the All India Institute of Medical Sciences confirmed that Sheena Bora died of strangulation. The burnt skeleton was exhumed after three years and was tested by AIIMS experts. The expert team said the skeleton was burnt and there was not a single fracture.This matched with what Mukerjea's ex-driver Shyamvar Rai said that Sheena was strangled in a car and then her body was burnt and dumped in a forest in Raigad. The plan was hatched by Indrani Mukerjea, her second husband Sanjeev Khanna and her third husband Peter Mukerjea.The investigation has revealed Sheena Bora was in a relationship with Rahul Mukerjea, Peter Mukerjea's son from his first marriage, which Indrani did not approve. It was also reported that Rahul did not know that Sheena was Indrani's daughter as Indrani introduced Sheena as her sister. The disagreement over this issue led to the murder which was under wrap for three years.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/when-aiims-had-confirmed-sheena-bora-was-strangled-to-death-101639656675185.html
16-12-2021||India||Sheena Bora is alive, claims Indrani Mukerjea; urges CBI to probe the claim||MUMBAI: Jailed former media executive Indrani Mukerjea, who is being tried for allegedly killing her daughter Sheena Bora, has said that an inmate of Byculla jail recently informed her that Sheena was alive and residing in Jammu and Kashmir’s Srinagar. The 49-year-old has written to the Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI) with a request to investigate the claim. Mukerjea, 49, claimed in the letter that on November 25 she met a woman police officer, who was recently lodged in Byculla women’s jail where Mujerjea is lodged, and the woman officer informed her that Sheena was alive and she was in Srinagar. On November 27, Indrani sent the letter to CBI Director in Delhi.Mukerjea’s lawyer, Sana Khan said the government official informed Indrani that when she was on vacation in Srinagar she had met Sheena, and Indrani wants the said aspect to be investigated. The lawyer added that if CBI does not investigate the matter, they will move the court for necessary directions to the agency.According to police, Indrani and her ex-husband Sanjeev Khanna strangled Sheena Bora, Indrani’s daughter from her previous relationship, on April 24, 2012 in a car in Mumbai. The following day, they disposed of the body in a forested area in Gagode village of Raigad district.The murder came to light after the Khar police arrested Shyamvar Rai, Indrani’s former driver, in another case in August 2015. Indrani was arrested on August 25, 2015 – immediately after the crime came to light, followed by Khanna’s arrest. Peter Mukerjea was arrested on November 19, 2015 after the case was transferred to CBI.A CBI official said the trial is at an advanced stage and several prosecution witnesses have already been examined. The forensic superimposition of the recovered skull has matched with the face of the deceased and the DNA analysis of recovered femur bones and cervical bones concluded that Indrani was the biological mother of the deceased.“So we have lot of evidence that Sheena was killed and so we won’t take cognisance of the application,” said a CBI officer, privy to the trial, which started on February 24, 2017. The case is next scheduled to be heard on December 28 by a special CBI Court, when the plea is likely to be pressed by Indrani’s lawyer.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/sheena-bora-is-alive-claims-indrani-mukerjea-urges-cbi-to-probe-the-claim-101639657066622.html
16-12-2021||India||India, Taiwan in talks on semiconductor hub, free trade and investment pacts||India and Taiwan have begun talks on a free trade pact and creating a semiconductor manufacturing hub in the country as part of efforts to meet the burgeoning demand for the chips needed for products ranging from cellphones to cars. The two sides set up four groups earlier this year that are focusing on creating a semiconductor manufacturing hub, education and training of highly specialised manpower needed for the industry, a bilateral investment agreement and a free trade agreement, two people familiar with the matter said. The contacts on these issues gathered momentum around the middle of this year and the group on semiconductors met twice virtually, in August and September, while there was one round of talks on the proposed trade pact, the people cited above said. Both sides are eyeing the possibility of one of Taiwan’s semiconductor giants, including Taiwan Semiconductor Manufacturing Company (TSMC) and United Microelectronics Corporation (UMC), setting up a facility in India. The Indian side has proposed several sites for the hub though the two sides are yet to come to a final decision, the people said. “It is a very complicated process because a company like TSMC uses components from hundreds of other firms. Setting up a hub in India means convincing those firms to also set up a facility in India to ensure the supply of components,” one of the people cited above said. If the proposal is finalised, it will be only the second such manufacturing hub set up in a foreign country by a Taiwanese manufacturer. TSMC, which has a market value of more than $550 billion and accounts for about 54% of global revenues from semiconductors, has set up a $12-billion fabrication plant in the US that is expected to start production in 2024. TSMC is also eyeing possible facilities in Japan and Europe. For Taiwan, such investments are linked to strategic gains at a time when China has increased its pressure on the island, stepping up incursions into its air defence zone and taking tensions in the Taiwan Strait to a new high amid threatening talk of an invasion. The Taiwanese decision to create the semiconductor manufacturing hub in the US was seen as closely linked to military support extended by Washington to Taipei. Taiwan is also hoping such moves will translate into greater support for its efforts in other areas, such as a presence at the World Health Organization (WHO). As part of overall efforts to increase trade and investment, Taiwan is also eyeing the possibility of opening a representative office in Mumbai because of the potential for investments and manufacturing in Maharashtra and Gujarat. India and Taiwan established representative offices in each other’s capitals in 1995. A second Taipei Economic and Cultural Center was established in Chennai in 2012. As with most contacts with Taiwan, the Indian side has been proceeding cautiously, largely because of the tensions with China over the military standoff in Ladakh sector of the Line of Actual Control (LAC). However, India’s rapidly growing need for semiconductors – expected to be around $100 billion by 2025, up from the current level of $2 billion – is the main reason for the government’s push in the field. On Wednesday, the Union cabinet approved a production-linked incentive scheme with an outlay of ₹76,000 crore ($10 billion) for development of a semiconductor and display manufacturing ecosystem. The government has also committed support of ₹2,30,000 crore ($30 billion) to position India as a global hub for electronics manufacturing, with semiconductors as the foundational block. Sana Hashmi, Taiwan fellow at the Institute of International Relations at the National Chengchi University in Taipei, said advancing economic ties falls in the framework of the unofficial relations between India and Taiwan. “One of the primary objectives of the Taipei Economic and Cultural Center in Delhi and the India-Taipei Association (ITA) in Taipei is to work towards strengthening commercial ties,” she said. Hashmi said though China objects to all contacts with Taiwan, there has been an understanding that cooperation on economic and cultural issues and science and technology doesn’t violate adherence to the “One China” policy by other nations. “Seemingly, it was fine for other countries as long as China was reaping the benefits of Taiwanese investments. Now with the growing cross-Strait tensions, Taiwan’s focus has been on pulling out investments from China and reducing its dependence. Cooperation in the semiconductor industry is one of India’s main interests vis-a-vis Taiwan,” she said. “Several agreements are already in place between India and Taiwan. So, another agreement in the economic field doesn’t violate the ‘One China’ policy,” she added. 
16-12-2021||India||Parents want schools to be shut only if multiple Omicron cases found in vicinity, survey finds||With cases of Omicron variant of coronavirus disease (Covid-19) rapidly increasing in India, a new survey has revealed that most Indian parents want the local administration to stop offline classes in schools only if multiple cases of the strain are detected in the district or "within 25 kilometres" of their vicinity.The survey that took the inputs of more than 10,000 parents from over 332 districts of the country, was put together by online platform Local Circles. Of them, 61% of the respondents were men and 39% were women.According to the survey, 12% of the parents said that schools must be closed if there is even one Omicron case in the district or in nearby regions. On the other hand, 21% of parents said offline classes in schools must be stopped if there is a single Omicron case with no travel history in the district or in nearby areas.Also Read | Researchers find a new strategy to boost vaccine efficacy amid Omicron spreadOf several questions asked in the survey, the one pertaining to if schools should be shut or function amid rising Omicron spread, received as many as 9,694 responses from 10,000 respondents. A total of 45% respondents (parents) hailed from Tier-1 districts, 31% from Tier-2 while 24% of them belonged to Tier-3 and 4 districts as well as rural areas.The survey also revealed that a majority of the parents are worried about Omicron spreading even more rapidly among children in school once the variant of Covid-19 enters the community of a particular district. The parents raised concerns over “limited outdoor air ventilation in most classes and no access to air purifiers and high transmissibility of Omicron,” according to the Local Circles survey.After evaluation of the responses, the survey found that most parents want local authorities not to shut schools till Omicron comes to their district or nearby regions. Meanwhile, 30% of parents want authorities to wait till a non-travel related case of the Covid-19 variant is detected in their district or vicinity.Schools in over 20 states and Union territories (UTs) in India have resumed offline classes, including Mumbai and Pune where schools reopened yesterday and today, respectively.India has so far reported 77 cases of Omicron Covid-19 variant, following Delhi reporting four fresh cases earlier in the day. Notably, Maharashtra accounts for the most number of cases in the country with 32 infections.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/parents-want-schools-to-be-shut-if-multiple-omicron-cases-found-in-area-survey-101639651369195.html
16-12-2021||India||Man bids ₹44 lakh for post of village sarpanch, bags top post unopposed||A man has bid a whopping ₹44 lakh to win an auction so that he can file his nomination to become the sarpanch of a village in Madhya Pradesh’s Ashok Nagar district. Residents of Bhatoli village panchayat held an unusual auction three months before the Panchayat polls in Ashok Nagar district to choose a candidate for the post of sarpanch, who would win the election unopposed. Heads of all families attended the bidding process held on Tuesday at the Radha-Krishna temple in the village Saubhag Singh Yadav, a resident of Bhatoli made the highest bid of ₹44 lakh. The money, he claimed will be used for the renovation of a temple and also for developmental work needed in the village. Ramesh Lodhi, the outgoing sarpanch of the village said, “In 2009, the villagers had decided on the candidate on condition that he would initiate development work in the village. But in 2015, two candidates contested the polls when I won. A rift was created unnecessarily among villagers, so this time we decided to take an unanimous decision of choosing one candidate for the election so that he could win unopposed.” The villagers have estimated that renovation work of the temple and other small developmental work including construction of a community hall need at least ₹21 lakh so they asked the four candidates who were willing to contest to bid for the post. “Saubhag Singh made the highest bid of ₹44 lakh so we decided that only he would file his nomination for the election this year,” Lodhi said. Saubhag Singh said the candidates spend lakhs of rupees to feed people and distribute liquor to win the election. “The election also creates trouble as villagers begin fighting with each other to support their chosen candidates. To maintain peace in the village, the villagers have taken a unanimous decision. The money is a donation for the temple,” he added. When contacted, Ashok Nagar district collector Uma Maheshwari said she was not aware of the incident but would inquire about the matter. 
16-12-2021||India||News updates from HT: Kerala should learn from Andhra on access to education, says EAC-PM, and all the latest news||Here are today’s top news, analysis, and opinion at 5pm. Know all about the latest news and other news updates from Hindustan Times.Kerala needs to learn from Andhra Pradesh on access to education: Economic Advisory Council to PMThe Economic Advisory Council to the Prime Minister released a report on the state of foundational literacy and numeracy in the country highlighting the importance of early education years in the overall development of a child. Read moreCongress calls out Centre for not mentioning Indira Gandhi's name in Vijay Diwas celebrationsCongress general secretary Priyanka Gandhi called the government “misogynist” and said that women in the country don’t believe in Prime Minister Narendra Modi. Read more'He was best choice': Ganguly backs Rohit to give 'better result'; calls India's T20 WC outing 'poorest' in 4-5 yearsThe switch in ODI captaincy last week received mixed reactions because of its suddenness. Virat Kohli was succeeded in the role by Rohit Sharma, who is now India's full-time limited-overs captain. Read moreAmitabh Bachchan complains about not having as many followers as 'beautiful ladies': 'Help me too'Actor Amitabh Bachchan on Thursday shared a picture of himself from the sets of his upcoming film Uunchai. Taking to Instagram, the scene showed him standing on a bridge with a backpack, battling heavy rain. Read moreWhy headaches are common in winters and how to get rid of themIf you too get headaches in winter, experts say there could be many reasons behind it. One of the leading causes of headaches in winter season is cold-stimulus headache. Read moreExclusive: 2022 Audi Q7 starts arriving at dealerships ahead of launchThe 2022 Audi Q7 will be the first launch from the Germans in India come the new year and the SUV has already started arriving at select dealerships in the country. Read morePM Modi lights ‘Swarnim Vijay Mashaal'; recalls valour of Indian forcesOn the occasion of the 50th Vijay Diwas, PM Modi paid homage to the 1971 war bravehearts at the National War Memorial in New Delhi. He participated in Homage & Reception Ceremony of 'Swarnim Vijay Mashaals'. Watch||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/news-updates-from-ht-kerala-should-learn-from-andhra-on-access-to-education-says-pm-s-advisory-council-and-all-the-latest-news-101639652256957.html
16-12-2021||India||Did any minister attend Karan Johar's party? BJP leader raises doubt after big Bollywood Covid outbreak||After several Bollywood personalities tested positive for Covid-19 in the past few days, after attending a party at director-producer Karan Johar's house, BJP leader Ashish Shelar on Thursday raised doubt over the list of guests who attended Karan Johar's party and asked whether there was any minister at the party. The minister said there is a discrepancy between the statements of Kareena Kapoor Khan and Seema Khan, Sohail Khan's wife. Is it an attempt to hide some names?" the BJP leader asked."As per the information shared by Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation officials with me, Seema Khan did not reveal all the names of people who were present at the dinner at Johar's house. I think it was held on December 8. The names she omitted came to light when Kareena Kapoor was contacted by BMC officials for contact tracing. It raises suspicion about the exact number of people who attended that party," he said.How did several Bollywood celebs get covid? Here's what BMC says | 10 pointsThe minister said he had written to the civic body seeking CCTV footage of the Regency building where Karan Johar stays. The municipality told him that no such footage has been obtained so far.The film industry is witnessing a major Covid outbreak which started with Kareena Kapoor Khan testing Covid positive. After Kareena, Amrita Arora, Maheep Kapoor (Sanjay Kapoor's wife) and Seema Khan too tested positive. All of them reportedly attended Karan Johar's party to celebrate 20 years of Kabhi Khushi Kabhie Gham. Karan Johar and his family members, however, tested negative and Johar put out a statement on social media that his house has not become a Covid hotspot."My family and I and everyone at home have done their RTPCR tests and with the grace of god we are all negative! In fact, I tested twice just to be safe and am negative. I truly appreciate the grandest efforts of the BMC to ensure the safety of our city. Salute to them," Karan Johar said on Wednesday.The contacts of the four Bollywood personalities have been traced. Kareena Kapoor's maid, Seema Khan's 10-year-old son, Maheep Kapoor's daughter Shanaya Kapoor have also tested positive.According to reports, the BMC has requested Karishma Kapoor and designer Manish Malhotra to get tested, as they are in close contact with Kareena Kapoor. Some reports claimed Manish Malhotra also attended Karan Johar's party.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/did-any-minister-attend-karan-johar-s-party-bjp-leader-raises-doubt-after-big-bollywood-covid-outbreak-101639652811040.html
16-12-2021||India||Kerala needs to learn from Andhra Pradesh on access to education: Economic Advisory Council to PM||Some states may serve as role models in certain aspects of foundational literacy and numeracy but they too need to learn from other states while addressing their challenges, the Economic Advisory Council to the Prime Minister said on Thursday. The independent body constituted to give advice on economic and related issues to the Prime Minister released a report on the state of foundational literacy and numeracy in the country highlighting the importance of early education years in the overall development of a child.The EAC-PM stressed that access to quality early childhood education is a fundamental right, noting the formative years require to be understood in the backdrop of socio-economic, psychological, and technological hindrances children face."Education leads to positive externalities and the quality of education imparted is important especially during the formative years. The present attainments in literacy and numeracy and the variations among states should be the focus for remedial action," Dr Bibek Debroy, Chairman, EAC-PM said during a panel discussion on the report.Giving an example of Kerala, the report suggested that some states that serve as role models too need to learn from other states, including the low performing ones. It stated that Kerala has the best performance in the small state, but can learn from lower-scoring states like Andhra Pradesh (38.50), which outperforms Kerala (36.55) on access to education.The report pointed towards the particularly worse performance of the states on the Governance pillar, with half of the states scoring below the national average. The EAC-PM said in a statement that the pillar-wise analyses help states “assess the state of the budgetary measures and steps needed to improve the state of education and identify existing gaps that obstruct their growth.”The performance of larger states like Rajasthan (25.67), Gujarat (22.28), and Bihar (18.23) was below average while the North-eastern states performed better than the rest as a result of their superior performance.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/kerala-needs-to-learn-from-andhra-pradesh-on-access-to-education-economic-advisory-council-to-pm-101639652524854.html
16-12-2021||India||Congress calls out Centre for not mentioning Indira Gandhi's name in Vijay Diwas celebrations||Congress leaders Rahul Gandhi and Priyanka Gandhi on Thursday called out the Union government for not mentioning the former Prime Minister Indira Gandhi’s name during the Centre’s programme on the occasion of Vijay Diwas – celebrated to commemorate India’s victory over Pakistan in the 1971 war.Rahul Gandhi, currently in poll-bound Uttarakhand to launch his party’s election campaign in the state, said that the former PM’s name was not even mentioned once during the Centre’s event in Delhi.He also said that Indira Gandhi sacrificed her life for the nation. “Today a function was held in Delhi regarding the Bangladesh war. There was no mention of Indira Gandhi in that function. The woman who took 32 bullets for this country, her name was not there in the invitation because this govt is afraid of the truth,” news agency ANI quoted the Wayanad MP as saying.Also read | Vijay Diwas: PM Modi participates in special ceremony at National War MemorialCongress general secretary Priyanka Gandhi also echoed similar comments and called the government “misogynistic” and said that women in the country don’t believe in Prime Minister Narendra Modi.“Our first and only woman Prime Minister, Indira Gandhi is being left out of the misogynist BJP government’s Vijay Diwas celebrations. This, on the 50th anniversary of the day that she led India to victory and liberated Bangladesh,” she tweeted. “@narendramodi ji, women don’t believe your platitudes. Your patronising attitude is unacceptable. It’s about time you started giving women their due,” she said in a subsequent tweet....@narendramodi ji, women don’t believe your platitudes. Your patronising attitude is unacceptable. It’s about time you started giving women their due. 2/2Earlier in the day, Modi, accompanied by Union defence minister Rajnath Singh, participated in the celebrations of the 50th Vijay Diwas. Singh issued a commemorative stamp on the occasion.“On this special day of Vijay Diwas, I had the honour of paying my respects at the National War Memorial and merging into the Eternal Flame, the four Vijay Mashaals which traversed across the length and breadth of the country over the course of last one year,” Modi tweeted.Meanwhile, Rajnath Singh hailed the war as a “golden chapter in India’s military history” and remembered the sacrifice of the armed forces.“On the occasion of ‘Swarnim Vijay Diwas’ we remember the courage and sacrifice of our armed forces during the 1971 war. The 1971 war is the golden chapter in India’s military history. We are proud of our armed forces and their achievements,” he tweeted, sharing a few images of the war.President Ram Nath Kovind, in Bangladesh on an official visit, and Vice President Venkaiah Naidu also wished the people on the occasion. However, none of the messages mentioned Indira Gandhi’s name.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/congress-calls-out-centre-for-not-mentioning-indira-gandhi-s-name-in-vijay-diwas-101639651884263.html
16-12-2021||India||Opposition demands his ouster, but MoS Ajay Mishra set to be chief guest at SSB's 58th foundation day ceremony||In what is likely to further fuel the Opposition's anger against Ajay Mishra ‘Teni,' the Union minister is set to be the chief guest at the Sashastra Seema Bal's (SSB) 58th foundation day ceremony on December 20.Also Read | Minister Ajay Mishra must resign, says Rahul Gandhi as Oppn escalates attacks“Invitations have been sent to all, and the minister's office has confirmed that he will attend the ceremony. He will be the chief guest for our 58th anniversary parade,” a media report quoted a senior SSB officer as saying.Mishra is a minister of state in the Union home ministry (MHA), and is one of three deputies to the Union home minister Amit Shah. The SSB, which guards India's borders with Nepal and Bhutan, is a Central Armed Police Forces (CAPF); there are 5 CAPFs, all of which are under the administrative control of the home ministry.The development comes even as Opposition parties protest in Parliament, seeking Mishra's dismissal from the Union government, after a Special Investigation Team (SIT) report described as a ‘pre-planned conspiracy' the killing of four farmers in Uttar Pradesh's Lakhimpur Kheri on October 3. The prime accused in the case is Ashish Mishra, the son of Ajay Mishra ‘Teni.’ Ashish Mishra is currently lodged in a jail in Uttar Pradesh.On Wednesday, the Union minister was caught on camera lashing out at journalists who questioned him over the SIT report.  The Centre, however, has ruled out discussion in Parliament over the Lakhimpur Kheri issue, saying that the matter is currently sub judice.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/opposition-demands-his-ouster-but-mos-ajay-mishra-to-be-chief-guest-at-ssb-s-58th-foundation-day-ceremony-101639649699017.html
16-12-2021||India||‘Metro Man’ Sreedharan makes surprise exit from active politics||E Sreedharan, hailed as “Metro Man” for spearheading New Delhi’s Metro railway project, announced his retirement from active politics on Thursday, much to the surprise of the Bharatiya Janata Party’s (BJP) Kerala unit. The celebrated engineer made the announcement while addressing reporters in Ponnani, his native town in Malappuram district.“Defeat in the assembly elections [in Kerala in April] made me wiser. When I lost, it made me sad. But now I realise that even if I had won, nothing could have been done. I was never a politician. I remained a bureaucratic politician for some time,” Sreedharan said, adding that he had made a late entry into politics but his exit wasn’t late. “I am 90 now. I can’t run around like a youngster. I am associated with three different trusts and I will spend the rest of my time with them,” he said. Asked if he was leaving politics due to any regrets, Sreedharan said that when he joined the BJP in March, he felt the party had good prospects in Kerala but that situation has now changed. “The party will have to do enough to get a foothold in the state. I mentioned that in my report to the party president after the election debacle. I don’t want to discuss those things now,” he said. Also Read: Kerala high court rejects plea questioning re-appointment of Kannur VCAfter the party lost in the assembly polls, in which it even conceded its lone seat at Nemom in Thiruvananthapuram, the central leadership sought a report from Sreedharan, who himself had lost from Palakkad. He was beaten by sitting Congress legsislator Shafi Parambhil in a three-way contest. “My short stint in politics… I am leaving neither disgusted nor contended. You can call it a late entry and an early exit. I will serve the people for the rest of my life through the three bodies that I am associated with,” he said. The BJP’s state unit expressed surprise over his exit from active politics. “We heard about this in the media. He will be around, and we will seek his guidance and advice on key issues,” said BJP state president K Surendran.It was Surendran who had announced that Sreedharan was joining the BJP earlier this year. “He is our CM candidate. His entry has given the party fresh energy and vigour,” Surendran had said at that time.Apart from being fondly called “Metro Man”, Sreedharan also played a key role in establishing the Konkan Railway and rebuilding the Pamban rail bridge in Rameswaram, which was destroyed by a storm in 1964.
16-12-2021||India||Supreme Court allows Maharashtra to resume traditional bullock-cart race||The Supreme Court on Thursday allowed the resumption of the traditional bullock-cart race in Maharashtra based on the amendments to the Prevention of Cruelty to Animals (PCA) Act implemented by the state, in lines with Karnataka and Tamil Nadu.A two-judge bench headed by Justices AM Khanwilkar and CT Ravikumar said the validity of Maharashtra’s amendments for the race will be decided by the constitution bench alongside those of Karnataka and Tamil Nadu. The top court was hearing a plea by the Maharashtra government urging a permit to conduct a bullock-cart race.“One country, one race, we need to have uniformity and there has to be one rule. If the races are going on in other states, why should it not be allowed by Maharashtra,” Justice Khanwilkar said, as quoted by Live Law.“It is a traditional sport going on for several years, judgment came — it was stopped, the amendment came — allowed in a regulated manner. If it is a traditional sport and going all across the country except Maharashtra, it does not appeal to common sense,” he observed.The apex court had, in 2014, banned traditional sports like ‘Jallikattu’, bull race and bullock-cart races across the country noting that they were dangerous and violated provisions of the PCA Act. Subsequently, Karnataka and Tamil Nadu had amended the law to continue the tradition in a regulated manner, which are under challenge and pending before the Supreme Court since 2018.In February 2018, the top court had referred the pleas related to 'Jallikattu' to a five-judge Constitution Bench which would decide if the bull-taming sport fell under cultural rights or perpetuated cruelty to animals.(With Agency inputs)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/supreme-court-allows-maharashtra-to-resume-traditional-bullock-cart-race-101639650381207.html
16-12-2021||India||Over 100 crore Aadhaar cards issued in India so far, says UIDAI CEO||As many as 131 crore Aadhaar cards have been issued in India since its launch a decade ago, Saurabh Garg, CEO of the Unique Identification Authority of India (UIDAI) told news agency ANI on Thursday. The UIDAI is a statutory authority that handles Aadhaar and also issues the cards to citizens of India.A total of 99.7% of India's adult population, Garg added, has already been enrolled in Aadhaar. Furthermore, as many as 300 schemes of the Union government and 400 of various state governments have been linked with Aadhaar service, he informed.The UIDAI CEO noted that going ahead, the authority's effort is to enroll newborn babies in Aadhaar. “Our security systems are world-class,” he was quoted as saying by ANI.We launched Aadhar a decade ago in India. A total of 131Crs Aadhar cards have been issued so far. Aadhar has thrown Ghost beneficiaries out of the system. Govt has saved ₹2.25 lakh crores by Direct Benefit Transfers (DBT) to the genuine beneficiaries: Saurabh Garg, CEO, UIDAI pic.twitter.com/0zu4qxti8TAs per the UIDAI website, no biometrics, including those of a person's ten fingers, irises and facial photograph, will be captured for Aadhaar enrolment of children below five years of age. Their unique identification number (UID) will be processed based on the demographic information and facial photograph linked with the UIDs of their parents.Also Read | Cabinet clears bill on electoral reforms, allowing voluntary Aadhaar-Voter ID linking“These children will need to update their biometrics…when they turn five and 15. Intimation to this effect will be mentioned in the original Aadhaar letter,” the UIDAI website mentioned.Speaking to ANI, Garg said that the launch of Aadhaar services has thrown ‘Ghost (fake) beneficiaries’ out of the country's system. “[The] government has saved ₹2.25 lakh crores by Direct Benefit Transfers (DBT) to the genuine beneficiaries,” he added.The UIDAI now permits accessing Aadhaar services via SMS, which would especially help citizens who live in regions with no internet connectivity. This facility allows users to generate their virtual ID as well as lock Aadhaar cards.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/over-100-crore-aadhaar-cards-issued-in-india-so-far-says-uidai-ceo-101639645906181.html
16-12-2021||India||Grp Capt Varun Singh had planned to celebrate Shaurya Chakra honour in Indore this month||IAF Group Captain Varun Singh, who succumbed to his injuries after surviving the chopper crash in Tamil Nadu last week, had wished to visit Indore in December-end to celebrate his Shaurya Chakra honour, reported news agency PTI. Citing an acquaintance of the air warrior, the report said that Group Captain Varun Singh was scheduled to visit his wife Geetanjali's parental home in Indore around December-end and celebrate the honour.He was conferred with India's third-highest peacetime gallantry award for averting a possible mid-air accident after his Tejas light combat aircraft was hit by a major technical problem last year."But, as fate would have it, he was on board the ill-fated chopper (that crashed last week) as the liaison officer for the visit of Gen Rawat to the Defence Services Staff College in Wellington," PTI quoted Daljit Singh Gurudatta (70), a neighbour of Singh’s father, as saying.Group Captain Varun Singh got married in January 2008 after meeting Geetajnjali while she was studying in a Pune college. The couple has two kids, a son and a daughter. Singh’s father Colonel K P Singh (retired) and mother are residents of Bhopal and the officer had last visited his parents during Diwali."He loved Bhopal," Gurudatta said. “I had all hopes that Varun would come out triumphant. We had planned to give him a rousing welcome. I don't have words to describe the pain and loss his death has caused."MP CM announces ₹1 crore compensation to kin of late Group Captain Varun SinghThe air warrior succumbed to his injuries Wednesday morning after battling for life for almost a week in a military hospital in Bengaluru. The chopper crash had already claimed the lives of 13 others onboard, including Chief of Defence Staff General Bipin Rawat and his wife Madhulika.On Thursday, Madhya Pradesh chief minister Shivraj Singh Chouhan announced a 'Samman Nidhi' of ₹1 crore to the kin of the officer.“The state government will give ₹one crore 'Samman Nidhi' to the family of martyred Group Captain Varun Singh and in consultation with them, install his statue here, name an institution after him and also offer a job to his kin in the state government, as per the laid down practice," Chouhan told reporters.(With agency inputs)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/grp-capt-varun-singh-had-planned-to-celebrate-shaurya-chakra-honour-in-indore-this-month-101639648523595.html
16-12-2021||India||PM Modi to visit UP again, to lay foundation stone of Ganga Expressway on December 18||Prime Minister Narendra Modi will lay the foundation stone of the Ganga Expressway in Uttar Pradesh's Shahjahanpur at 1pm on December 18, the Prime Minister's Office (PMO) said in a statement on Thursday.The 594km-long Expressway will be laid at a cost of more than ₹36,200 crore, the PMO noted. “The route, which will comprise six lanes, will start near the Bijauli village in Meerut, extending all the way till near the Judapur Dandu village in Prayagraj. It will pass through Meerut, Hapur, Bulandshahr, Amroha, Sambhal, Badaun, Shahjahanpur, Hardoi, Unnao, Rae Bareli, Pratapgarh and Prayagraj,” it further said.Click here for full coverage of UP assembly elections 2022The Expressway, the release highlighted, will be the longest in Uttar Pradesh upon its completion, connecting the western and eastern regions of the poll-bound northern state.Additional features of the Ganga Expressway will include a 3.5km long air strip to assist in emergency take off and landing of Indian Air Force (IAF) planes, as well as an industrial corridor, which, the PMO said, will come up along the Expressway.“It will also give a fillip to multiple sectors, including industrial development, trade, culture, tourism etc. It will provide a big boost to the socio-economic development of the region,” the statement mentioned.PM Modi's Saturday visit to Uttar Pradesh will be his second for the week; he was in his parliamentary constituency of Varanasi on December 13 and 14 to inaugurate phase 1 of the Kashi Vishwanath Corridor.Also Read | PM Modi opens Kashi Vishwanath corridorOn November 16, Prime Minister Modi inaugurated the Purvanchal Expressway in UP, where assembly elections are likely to take place early next year.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/in-2nd-visit-to-up-this-week-pm-modi-to-lay-foundation-stone-of-ganga-expressway-on-december-18-101639646398945.html
16-12-2021||India||Sheena Bora alive and in J&K: What Indrani Mukerjea writes to CBI||The six-year-old case of Sheena Bora murder took a surprising turn after her mother Indrani Mukerjea, also the prime accused in the murder case, has written to the Central Bureau of Investigation requesting the agency to look for Sheena Bora as she is alive and in J&K, Indrani wrote in her letter, news agency ANI reported.What made Indrani write to CBI now? According to reports, a jail inmate has told Indrani that Sheena is alive. Indrani has told a few people about this. Indrani's lawyer Sana Raees, however, refused to confirm anything about the content of the letter to ANI. She said she will file an application before the Bombay high court on December 28 and then only she will share the details of the letter that her client has written. Indrani Mukerjea is currently lodged in Byculla jail.Sheena Bora murder case remained the most bone-chilling crime for years after Mumbai Police arrested Shyamvar Rai, Indrani Mukerjea's drive in a different case. Rai confessed to have killed Sheena Bora, Indrani Mukerjea's daughter in 2012. He said Indrani and his ex-husband Sanjeev Khanna were involved in the murder.Indrani Mukerjea was arrested in 2015 and the case was transferred to CBI which thinks Indrani Mukerjea killed Sheena Bora because she disapproved of Sheena Borea's relationship with Rahul Mukerjea, son of Peter Mukerjea, the third husband of Indrani. Rahul is Peter's son from his first marriage. Indrani used to introduce Sheena Bora as her sister and not her daughter. Sheena Bora was Indrani's daughter from her first marriage with Siddartha Das. Indrani did not have any child in her second marriage with Sanjeev, who apparently helped her with Sheena Bora's murder. With Peter, Indrani has a daughter Vidhie Mukerjea, who has recently come up with a book 'Devil's Daughters' recounting her family tragedy.A recap of investigationThe trial in the case started in 2017 and the CBI filed multiple chargesheets in the case. Almost 60 witnesses have recorded their statements in the case. During the trial of the case, Indrani and Peter filed for divorce and was granted in October 2019. Indrani maintained that Sheena has not been murdered and is alive and had gone abroad for her education in 2012.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/sheena-bora-alive-and-in-j-k-what-indrani-mukherjea-writes-to-cbi-101639647790240.html
16-12-2021||India||MP CM announces ₹1 crore compensation to kin of late Group Captain Varun Singh||Madhya Pradesh government will provide a compensation of ₹1 crore to the next of kin of Group Captain Varun Singh, the lone survivor of the Tamil Nadu chopper crash who passed away on December 15, said Chief Minister Shivraj Singh Chouhan on Thursday.Chouhan also said that Singh's last rites will be performed with full state and military honour.Addressing the media, Chouhan said, "I pay tribute to Group Captain Varun Singh. His last rites will be performed with full state and military honour. His father is very brave too. The entire family is dedicated to the nation. We stand with them in this hour of grief.""The naming of an institution after him and the erection of his statue in his memory will be discussed with the family. The state government will provide a compensation of ₹1 crore to the next of kin," he added.The mortal remains of Group Captain Varun Singh, who passed away on December 15, have reached Yelahanka Air Force Base in Bengaluru where the Indian Air Force (IAF) military officials paid him tribute.He was the lone survivor of the December 8 Tamil Nadu chopper crash in which 13 people, including Chief of Defence Staff (CDS) General Bipin Rawat and his wife, had died.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/mp-cm-announces-rs-1-crore-compensation-to-kin-of-late-group-captain-varun-singh-101639646862240.html
16-12-2021||India||Lakhimpur Kheri uproar: Modi protecting minister, says Congress; demands Centre’s statement||The Congress on Thursday continued its attack on the Centre over the findings of a special investigation team (SIT) in the Lakhimpur Kheri incident, which said that it was a planned conspiracy. Congress said that Prime Minister Narendra Modi was protecting the Union minister of state for home affairs Ajay Mishra, who’s son Ashish Mishra is one among those arrested in the case.Congress also pressed for the sacking of the senior Mishra from his position. Earlier in the day, the party along with other opposition parties demonstrated inside both Houses of Parliament demanding Mishra to step down. Lok Sabha and Rajya Sabha were initially adjourned till 2pm following continued protests and were later adjourned till Friday.“PM is not taking any action. If no action is being taken despite the SIT report then we have to say that the PM is protecting him. Chairman didn't listen to our appeal and suddenly adjourned the House,” news agency ANI quoted Leader of Opposition in the Rajya Sabha Mallikarjun Kharge as saying.Also read | 'Minister Ajay Mishra must resign': Opposition disrupts Parliament over Lakhimpur Kheri 'murder'“We had given a notice under Rule 267 in RS over the Lakhimpur Kheri incident. We wanted a discussion over the incidents that took place there, especially on the SIT clearly saying that the mowing down of farmers was pre-planned, a conspiracy and it was a murder,” the Congress leader said.He noted that an updated chargesheet has been filed in the case and also claimed that Ashish Mishra, son of Ajay Mishra, was a conspirator who “killed the farmers” along with 13 of his friends.“We wanted to present this before the House. We had requested the Chairman and had given a notice in the morning. Minister Teni had once told the farmers to break their 'satyagraha', otherwise, he knows how to make it happen within 2 minutes. Maybe his son acted on this,” Kharge said.Click here for live updates on Parliament Winter SessionCongress general secretary KC Venugopal accused the government of showing reluctance to discuss the Lakhimpur Kheri incident following the SIT’s findings and demanded a statement from the Centre. "Government is not ready to discuss anything about the Lakhimpur Kheri issue. SIT has given a special report telling it is a clear conspiracy. Parliament is not ready to discuss, it is very unfortunate. Government should come forward with a statement on the issue,” he said.Earlier in the day, Congress MP Rahul Gandhi raised the issue in Lok Sabha and demanded that the opposition be allowed to speak about the issue.Meanwhile, Union parliamentary affairs minister Pralhad Joshi said that the investigation was underway and the opposition refused to discuss the issue.“Supreme Court-monitored investigation is going on in the Lakhimpur Kheri case. Parliament is a place for discussions. We want to take constructive suggestions from the Opposition. We call them for discussions but they refuse,” ANI quoted Joshi as saying.As many as eight people, including four farmers and a local journalist, were killed in Uttar Pradesh’s Lakhimpur Kheri in October this year after a speeding car rammed into a group of farmers protesting against the now-repealed farm laws.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/lakhimpur-kheri-uproar-modi-protecting-minister-says-congress-demands-centre-s-statement-101639645818994.html
16-12-2021||India||In poll-bound Goa, ex-minister Rohan Khaunte to join BJP on Friday||A day after resigning as an MLA, former Goa minister Rohan Khaunte on Thursday said he would join the ruling BJP. Khaunte, who quit as an independent MLA from the Porvorim Assembly constituency, said in a statement, "I have decided to join the BJP to ensure the continuity of Porvorim's development as well as to imbibe a culture of inclusiveness and togetherness. I will be joining BJP on Friday at Mahalaxmi temple in Panaji at 10 am."||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/in-poll-bound-goa-ex-minister-rohan-khaunte-to-join-bjp-on-friday-101639644683735.html
16-12-2021||India||Three years into his second term, challenges mount for KCR in Telangana||Hyderabad: In December 2018, Telangana Rashtra Samithi president K Chandrasekhar Rao returned to power in Telangana for a second successive term with a massive mandate. Three years down the line, the political picture isn’t quite as rosy. The TRS supremo has found himself with a plethora of problems – a possible anti-incumbency wave built on unrest among unemployed youth, problems in paddy procurement and a failure to fulfil promises like three acres of land for Dalits and the building of over 2.5 lakh double-bedroom houses for the poor.
16-12-2021||India||‘Not without Parivar Bhakti’: Poster war between Congress, BJP over use of Gen Rawat's cutout in Rahul Gandhi's rally||A poster war broke out between the Congress and the BJP after a cutout of General Bipin Rawat, the country's first Chief of Defence Staff who has recently lost his life in a tragic helicopter crash in Tamil Nadu, was put up by the Congress for Rahul Gandhi's Vijay Samman Rally. Besides Bipin Rawat's cut-out, there is one of Indira Gandhi and one of Rahul Gandhi. While the BJP alleged that the Congress is using Bipin Rawat as a "political tool" ahead of the election in the state, the Congress said that Rahul Gandhi's rally on Thursday was not a political one. It was to celebrate the 50th Vijay Diwas that commemorates India's victory in the 1971 war. SHAMELESS CONGRESS PARTY PUTS PICS OF RAHUL GANDHI ALONG WITH MARTYRS ON SHRADDHANJALI WALL! Even here they can’t honour soldiers without parivar bhakti? DISRESPECTING MARTYRS.. CONGRESS HAS DNA OF DISRESPECTING ARMED FORCES THEY HAD CALLED BIPIN RAWAT ji “SADAK KA GUNDA” pic.twitter.com/7b1udp6AdN'Dancing in Goa': Over Gen Rawat's chopper crash, BJP targets CongressBJP national spokesperson Shehzad Poonawalla pointed out on Twitter that not only Gen Rawat's cutout has been used at the venue, but Rahul Gandhi's smiling photo has also been placed alongside the photos of martyred soldiers on a wall made at the venue to pay tributes to deceased army personnel. "Shameless Congress party puts pics of Rahul Gandhi along with martyrs on Shradhanjali wall! Even here they can't honour soldiers without parivar bhakti? Disrespecting martyrs. Congress has DNA of disrespecting armed forces. They had called Bipin Rawatji 'Sadak ka Gunda'.Uttarakhand calls out Congress and Rahul Gandhi’s hypocrisy, welcomes him with these posters enroute to the rally venue…Congress must realise that it can’t malign our men in uniform and then gain political mileage in their name. Shame on such despicable politics. pic.twitter.com/RThuO3LmCVBJP IT cell in-charge Amit Malviya posted photos of another poster that questioned Congress its stance on India's security forces. "Uttarakhand calls out Congress and Rahul Gandhi’s hypocrisy, welcomes him with these posters enroute to the rally venue…Congress must realise that it can’t malign our men in uniform and then gain political mileage in their name. Shame on such despicable politics," Malviya tweeted.On December 8, General Rawat, his wife Madhulika Rawat and 11 defence personnel died after the Indian Air Force chopper they were travelling from Sulur airbase to Wellington crashed. Group Captain Varun Singh was the only person on board who survived the crash but after fighting a week, he passed away on Wednesday.Gen Rawat has already become a flashpoint between the BJP and the Congress after Uttarakhand chief minister Pushkar Singh Dhami accused the Congress of "celebrating" after the death of the defence personnel. Dhami said when the nation was mourning, Priyanka Gandhi was in Goa for election campaigning, dancing with tribal women.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/not-without-parivar-bhakti-poster-war-between-congress-bjp-over-use-of-gen-rawat-s-cutout-in-rahul-gandhi-s-rally-101639645141544.html
16-12-2021||India||Why states in NCR need as much attention as Delhi to fight pollution||New Delhi: With Delhi consistently ranking among the world’s most polluted cities over the last three decades, the nation’s capital has been the focus of attention for government bodies, judiciary and agencies looking to fix air quality. This attention dates back to the 1990s when the air began turning toxic, leaving a visible haze hanging over the city each winter.
16-12-2021||India||Explained: The scandal in Goa that has made minister Milind Naik quit||Panaji: In a scandal that could have far reaching political implications with assembly elections just months away in Goa, BJP state minister Milind Naik resigned on Wednesday night, hours after leaders of the Goa Congress, led by state president Girish Chodankar and former youth president Sankalp Amonkar accused him of sexually exploiting a woman and handed out copies of “evidence” via a formal complaint to the police and later to the media.
16-12-2021||India||Fire breaks out at perfume factory in Maharashtra's Palghar||A fire broke out in a factory manufacturing perfume and plastic goods in Vasai area of Maharashtra's Palghar district on Thursday, an official said. No casualty was reported so far, regional disaster management cell chief Santosh Kadam said, adding that loud sounds, possibly of drums exploding at the site, could be heard. The fire erupted around 10.30 am in the unit located at Kaman in Vasai township and spread in the entire premises, he said. Two fire engines of the Vasai-Virar Municipal Corporation were rushed to the spot and efforts were still on to douse the blaze, the official said. "No one is injured, as per the latest reports," he said. The cause of the fire is not yet known, he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/fire-breaks-out-at-perfume-factory-in-maharashtra-s-palghar-101639639792272.html
16-12-2021||India||'Minister Ajay Mishra must resign': Opposition disrupts Parliament over Lakhimpur Kheri 'murder'||Parliament continued to witness disruptions over the Lakhimpur Kheri violence, in which eight people were killed, as opposition parties demanded the removal of Union minister of state for home affairs Ajay Mishra 'Teni'. The opposition parties have been targeting Mishra since the incident took place on October 3, but their demand picked up steam after a Special Investigation Team (SIT) probing the violence termed it "a pre-planned conspiracy."Both Lok Sabha and Rajya Sabha are now adjourned till 2pm.Speaking in the Lok Sabha today, Congress leader Rahul Gandhi termed the incident "a murder" and said, "We should be allowed to speak about the incident. The minister who killed farmers should resign and be punished," he stressed.Leader of Opposition Mallikarjun Kharge also demanded a discussion in the Rajya Sabha. "We had given a notice under Rule 267 in Rajya Sabha over the Lakhimpur Kheri incident. We wanted a discussion over the incidents that took place there, especially on the SIT clearly saying that the mowing down of farmers was pre-planned, a conspiracy and it was a murder," he also said.Meanwhile, suspended members from the opposition parties also staged a demonstration at the Gandhi statue and demanded the resignation of MoS Home Ajay Misra Teni.At least four farmers and a journalist among three others were killed on October 3 after a jeep mowed over cultivators near the Lakhimpur Kheri district in Uttar Pradesh. Agitated farmers say that Union minister Ajay Mishra's son Ashish was inside the car, when the killings took place, however, the duo have denied any wrongdoing.During the course of the investigation, the police arrested 13 people, including the minister's son Ajay.On Wednesday, the SIT which is probing the case under the monitoring of retired high court judges termed the Lakhimpur violence as "a pre-planned conspiracy".||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/minister-ajay-mishra-must-resign-opposition-disrupts-parliament-over-lakhimpur-kheri-murder-101639640760590.html
16-12-2021||India||Minister Ajay Mishra must resign, says Rahul Gandhi as Oppn escalates attacks||NEW DELHI: Proceedings in the Lok Sabha and Rajya Sabha were adjourned till 2pm on Thursday amid loud Opposition protests demanding the removal of Union minister of state for home Ajay Mishra ‘Teni’ and a discussion on Uttar Pradesh’s special investigation team (SIT) report on the October 3 Lakhimpur Kheri violence.Congress leader Rahul Gandhi, who had a question listed on Thursday, reiterated the opposition demands when the Wayanad MP’s name was called by speaker Om Birla to ask a starred question. “We should be allowed to speak about the murder that was committed in Lakhimpur Kheri, where there was an involvement of the minister and about which it has been said that it was a conspiracy. The minister who killed farmers should resign and be punished,” Gandhi said.News agency Press Trust of India said Trinamool Congress members, who earlier stayed away from the opposition grouping, were also in the Well of the House raising slogans along with members of Congress and Left parties as soon as the speaker called for the Question Hour after paying tributes to 1971 war heroes and Group Captain Varun Singh, the only survivor of December 8 chopper crash, who breathed his last on Wednesday.The speaker asked Gandhi to stick to the question related to the losses suffered by the micro, small and medium industry sector due to the Covid pandemic listed against his name.“You are a senior member. You ask question number 262. You will be given adequate time to ask the question you have listed for Question Hour,” the speaker said.Gandhi continued to speak on the minister. “Your minister here has attacked farmers. He should resign. His involvement is there. There has been a conspiracy. He should be punished for that. He should be removed from the government,” Gandhi said according to PTI, prompting the speaker to move to the next question before adjourning the House.Opposition parties have escalated their campaign against the junior home minister after the SIT said his son Ashish Mishra and others mowed down farmers in Lakhimpur Kheri in a “deliberate, pre-planned conspiracy”. A UP court on Tuesday added stringent sections of Indian Penal Code (IPC) and Arms Act, including attempt to murder, to the FIR against 13 people accused of mowing down farmers in Lakhimpur Kheri, where eight people were killed.On Wednesday, Union minister Piyush Goyal said the government is willing to consider the opposition request but they have to apologise for attacking lady marshals and the way they behaved with those who were protecting the security of this house,” he said, referring to unruly scenes in the last session of Parliament.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/minister-ajay-mishra-must-resign-says-rahul-gandhi-as-oppn-escalates-attacks-101639640324632.html
16-12-2021||India||'Have to take agriculture out of chemistry lab': PM Modi at natural farming meet||Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Thursday highlighted the steps taken by the government in the last seven years for the benefit of farmers, saying they will transform the agriculture sector. At the same time, the Prime Minister emphasised on the need to adopt natural farming techniques to ensure better produce and longevity of the soil.“There is no doubt that fertilisers led to green revolution. But this is also true that we have to keep working on alternatives. The main reason for this is we have to import fertilisers for other countries, which increases the cost of farming. Hence, there is a need to be aware (about natural farming),” PM Modi said while addressing the National Summit on Agro and Food Processing.He added that farming should be taken out of the chemistry lab and connected with nature’s own laboratory.“Whatever power the fertilisers have can also be found in nature. We just have to explore it,” said PM Modi.He also lauded the address of Gujarat Governor Acharya Devvrat, who gave details about how natural farming has helped farmers increase their produce manifold in recent years. “Natural farming is based on science,” the Prime Minister added.He said that though the world has progressed technologically, it has also been connected to its roots and this should be adopted in farming too.“From seed to soil, you can treat everything in a natural way. Natural farming does not involve spending on fertilisers nor on pesticides. It also requires less irrigation and is capable of dealing with floods and droughts,” said PM Modi.He added that natural farming will help India's farmers become self-reliant.The Prime Minister, in an outreach to farmers, listed the steps being taken by the government.“Along with agriculture, farmers are constantly being connected with many alternative sources of income like animal husbandry, bee keeping, fisheries, solar energy and bio fuel. A provision of lakhs of crores has been made to strengthen storage, cold chain and food processing in villages,” said PM Modi.Addressing the conclave before PM Modi, Gujarat governor talked about how earthworms and natural resources like cattle dung, jaggery and others can lead to increase in the nutritional content of the soil and result in increased crop production. He also gave a glimpse about the process to make manure naturally.The national three-day summit on natural farming commenced on December 14 and is scheduled to conclude on December 16.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/have-to-take-agriculture-out-of-chemistry-lab-pm-modi-at-natural-farming-meet-101639639766263.html
16-12-2021||India||News updates from HT: Gen MM Naravane takes over as chairman of Chiefs of Staff Committee and all the latest news||Here are today’s top news, analysis and opinion. Know all about the latest news and other news updates from Hindustan Times.After CDS Gen Bipin Rawat's death, Army chief Gen MM Naravane takes over as chairman of Chiefs of Staff CommitteeArmy Chief General Manoj Mukund Naravane on Wednesday assumed the charge as the chairman of the Chiefs of Staff Committee as a stop-gap arrangement to fill up the post that fell vacant with the tragic demise of Chief of Defence Staff General Bipin Rawat. Read more'If Azhar has inside information, he should come out and tell us': Gavaskar reacts strongly to Rohit-Kohli 'rift' tweetEver since BCCI confirmed the appointment of Rohit Sharma as the ODI captain, there has been significant unrest in the Indian cricket fraternity. The suddenness of the announcement – which was made last week – received a mixed reaction from former players and fans alike. Read moreSpider-Man No Way Home review: Marvel, Tom Holland's Spidey-spectacle offers never a dull moment, but rarely a great oneAside from focusing on Peter Parker and the high school years more than its predecessors, the only thing that really makes him distinctive is that he isn’t a standalone superhero. Read moreDeliveries of Ola S1, S1 Pro electric scooters beginOla Electric has started the deliveries for Ola S1 ans S1 Pro electric scooters, fulfilling its promise that its flagship product will hit the Indian roads by mid-December. Read moreNot able to sleep well? Avoid making these mistakes post sunsetAfter a day's work, one looks forward to hitting the bed at night for giving mind the much-deserved rest, and expects to sleep soundly. A good night's sleep can refresh and rejuvenate one for the day ahead. Read moreMumbai Police relates to this dialogue by Ashutosh Rana from Aranyak. WatchDo you follow Mumbai Police on Instagram? Then chances are you know about the kind of posts that they often share. The department regularly shares posts – with a touch of creativity – to spread awareness among people on different issues. Read moreThe frontrunners as Modi govt races to appoint the next Chief of Defence StaffAfter the untimely demise of General Bipin Rawat in a Mi-17V5 chopper crash last week, the Modi government is working fast on appointing the new chief of defence staff (CDS). Watch here||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/news-updates-from-ht-army-chief-gen-mm-naravane-takes-over-as-chairman-of-chiefs-of-staff-committee-and-all-the-latest-news-101639637794874.html
16-12-2021||India||In a first, Himalayan glacier abruptly changes its course. What it tells us||DEHRADUN: A 5-km long unnamed glacier in one of the less explored regions in the upper Kali Ganga valley in Uttarakhand’s Pithoragarh abruptly changed its course and merged with an adjacent glacier named Sumzurkchanki in Kuthi Yankti valley, according to a study by scientists at the Wadia Institute of Himalayan Geology.This is the first time that such a change of course has been reported from a Himalayan glacier, said Manish Mehta, a scientist at the institute. The 2-km change in course by the glacier spread across 4km has been attributed to the accumulated influence of both climate and tectonics sometime between the Last Glacial Maxima (19-24,000 years ago) and Holocene (10,000 years ago).A department of science and technology note on the study’s findings on its website said the abnormal behaviour of the unnamed glacier suggests that not only is climate a controlling factor, but tectonics also plays an important role in glacial catchments. “It clearly suggests that the Himalaya is an active mountain range and highly fragile where tectonics and climate play a critical role,” the note said.Mehta, who co-authored a paper in Geosciences Journal on the findings with Rahul Devrani, Khayingshing Luirei, and Vinit Kumar, said sometime between 25000 to 10,000 years ago, the unnamed glacier couldn’t overcome the rocky debris that got collected at its snout. “So when this impediment in the form of rock debris collection stopped the advance of this glacier, it started advancing by taking another direction, offtrack its original path in the valley”, he said He said the unnamed glacier has been affected by the active fault and climate change. “Our studies found that tectonic activity and change in climatic conditions have changed the course and morphology of this glacier. We found that northeast moving glacier has been abruptly truncated and forced to move towards the southeast and ultimately merge with the adjacent glacier named Sumzurkchanki as a result of tectonic forcing”, added Mehta, who led the study based on satellite imagery and old maps. “It is one of the unique behaviours of the glacier, which is for the first time reported from the Himalayan glacier as no such observation has so far been reported on this type of glacier kinematics”.Kuthi Yankti is one of the major tributaries of the Kali Ganga river and has around 88 glaciers covering an area of 130 sq km in its valley. “The unnamed glacier is located in this valley… north of the Sumzurkchanki glacier. The glacier movement is affected by climatic conditions and studies suggest that the region has freeze and thaw cycles that severely affect the weathering of the rock mass and increase in fracture spacing”, he said Mehta said a cross-section and geological map of the valley shows that the glacier is bounded by two active thrusts and traversed by three active faults. “These active thrusts and faults have changed the landscape and have made the whole region more fragile and vulnerable to various surface processes. The rerouting of the secondary glacier is not merely because of surface processes but is due to an active fault that got reactivated in the recent past”, he said. In all, Uttarakhand has around 1,000 to 1,400 glaciers, which can lead to lake outbursts, or lake formation due to the rockfall or landslides in the valleys or on slopes.According to experts, only around 10 or so glaciers are being monitored. The ones that are being studied include the Gangotri glacier, Chorabari glacier, Dunagiri glacier, Dokriyani glacier and Pindari glaciers.Glaciers can lead to devastating flash floods downstream sine they can hold a large quantum of water in their crevices and cavities, and also due to blockage by debris or moraine formation at their snouts. On February 7 this year, breakage of a glacier in Chamoli district led to a flash flood and wreaked havoc downstream, killing 204 people.
16-12-2021||India||After CDS Gen Bipin Rawat's death, Army chief Gen MM Naravane takes over as chairman of Chiefs of Staff Committee||Army Chief General Manoj Mukund Naravane assumed the charge as the chairman of the Chiefs of Staff Committee as a stop-gap arrangement to fill up the post that fell vacant with the tragic demise of Chief of Defence Staff General Bipin Rawat, officials familiar with the development saidThe chairman of the Chiefs of Staff Committee. that comprises all three service chiefs, used to be the senior-most post before the creation of the CDS rank two years ago.Army Chief General Manoj Mukund Naravane assumed the charge as the chairman of the Chiefs of Staff Committee as a stop-gap arrangement to fill up the post that fell vacant with the tragic demise of Chief of Defence Staff General Bipin Rawat, officials familiar with the development saidThe chairman of the Chiefs of Staff Committee. that comprises all three service chiefs, used to be the senior-most post before the creation of the CDS rank two years ago. India’s first Chief of Defence Staff General Bipin Rawat died in an Indian Air Force Mi-17 V5 chopper crash in Coonoor district of Tamil Nadu on December 8, along with his wife and 11 armed forces personnel.Gen Naravane has been given the charge as the chairman of the committee as he is the senior-most among the three service chiefs, the people familiar with the development told news agency PTI.IAF Chief Air Chief Marshal VR Chaudhari and Navy Chief Admiral R Hari Kumar had taken over their respective positions on September 30 and November 30.The Chiefs of Staff Committee (CoSC) met on Tuesday and condoled the death of Gen Rawat and others who died in the Coonoor chopper crash. Group Captain Varun Singh, who was the lone survivor of the accident, succumbed to injuries on Wednesday at a military hospital in Bengaluru.The chopper crashed when General Rawat was on his way to Defence Services Staff College in Wellington to deliver a lecture.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/after-cds-gen-bipin-rawat-s-death-army-chief-gen-mm-naravane-takes-over-as-chairman-of-chiefs-of-staff-committee-101639635624645.html
16-12-2021||India||Swarnim Vijay Diwas: Rajnath Singh issues commemorative stamp at National War Memorial to mark 50th anniversary||Defence Minister Rajnath Singh on Thursday issued a commemorative stamp on the occasion of Swarnim Vijay Diwas at the National War Memorial in the national capital.Swarnim Vijay Varsh commemorates 50 years of India's victory in the 1971 war and the formation of Bangladesh.Meanwhile, President Ram Nath Kovind will witness Bangladesh's 50th Victory Day celebrations in Dhaka today as a guest of honour.Last year on 16 December, Prime Minister Narendra Modi lit the Swarnim Vijay Mashaal from the Eternal Flame at the National War Memorial.He also lit four flames that were to traverse along with different directions. Since then, these four flames have traversed across the length and breadth of the country, including to Siachen, Kanyakumari, Andaman and Nicobar Islands, Longewala, Rann of Kutch, Agartala.The flames were taken to key battle areas and also to the houses of gallantry award winners and veterans of the 1971 war.Today, during the Homage Ceremony, these four flames will be merged by the Prime Minister with the Eternal Flame at the National War Memorial.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/swarnim-vijay-diwas-commemorative-stamp-given-by-rajnath-singh-at-the-national-war-memorial-101639632588690.html
16-12-2021||India||Vijay Diwas: PM Modi participates in special ceremony at National War Memorial||Prime Minister Narendra Modi participated in a homage ceremony at the National War Memorial in Delhi on Thursday on the occasion of the 50th anniversary of Vijay Diwas, which commemorates India's victory over Pakistan in the 1971 war.During the ceremony, PM Modi also laid a wreath at the National War Memorial to honour the soldiers who were killed in the line of duty. At the memorial PM Modi also signed the visitors' book and wrote: "On behalf of the entire nation, I salute the warriors of the 1971 war. The citizens are proud of the brave warriors who wrote unparalleled tales of valour."As a part of the Swarnim Vijay Varsh Celebrations on December 16 last year, the Prime Minister lit the Swarnim Vijay Mashaal from the Eternal Flame at the war memorial. He also lit four flames that were to traverse along with different directions. Since then, these four flames have traversed across the length and breadth of the country, including to Siachen, Kanyakumari, Andaman and Nicobar Islands, Longewala, Rann of Kutch, Agartala.The flames were taken to key battle areas and also to the houses of gallantry award winners and veterans of the 1971 war.During today's ceremony, these four flames were merged by the Prime Minister with the Eternal Flame at the National War Memorial.Defence minister Rajanth Singh who is also at the event issued a commemorative stamp on the occasion of Swarnim Vijay Diwas.Meanwhile, Indian President Ram Nath Kovind is in Bangladesh for grand celebrations of the Victory Day.  He is invited by his counterpart as ‘guest of honour.’||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/vijay-diwas-pm-modi-participates-in-special-ceremony-at-national-war-memorial-101639632950940.html
16-12-2021||India||50th anniversary of 1971 war today, leaders remember sacrifice of armed forces||December 16 is celebrated as Vijay Diwas every year to commemorate India's victory over Pakistan during the 1971 Liberation War that led to the creation of Bangladesh. This year, it is the 50th anniversary of the war.The 1971 war between India and Pakistan, which lasted for 13 days from December 3 till December 16, saw the surrender of 93,000 Pakistani troops to the joint forces of the Indian Army and Bangladesh's Mukti Bahini. The instrument of surrender was signed between Lt Gen AAK Niazi and Lt Gen JS Aurora in Dhaka on December 16, 1971.Also Read| ‘Together, we fought and defeated oppressive forces’: PM tweets on Victory DayThis was the largest surrender ever after the second World War. The Indian government at that time was being led by Prime Minister Indira Gandhi.Leaders across the political spectrum in India remembered the 1971 war.Bangladesh President Abdul Hamid reviews the parade at National Parade Ground in Dhaka, as the national program of #VictoryDay begins. President Ram Nath Kovind is attending the program as the Guest of Honour. #BijoyDibosh (Source: President of India Twitter) pic.twitter.com/fOSIAh63Kh"On the occasion of 'Swarnim Vijay Diwas' we remember the courage and sacrifice of our armed forces during the 1971 war. The 1971 war is the golden chapter in India's military history. We are proud of our armed forces and their achievements," Union defence minister Rajnath Singh tweeted.Also Read| 50th Victory Day of Bangladesh: President Kovind to join celebrations todayRajasthan chief minister and senior Congress leader Ashok Gehlot said that the day marks a glorious chapter in India’s history and “we remain indebted to the strong leadership” of then Prime Minister Indira Gandhi.#WATCH | Prime Minister Narendra Modi participates in Homage & Reception Ceremony of 'Swarnim Vijay Mashaals' at the National War Memorial in Delhi to mark 50th #VijayDiwas pic.twitter.com/cLpfWIjbJPPrime Minister Narendra Modi, meanwhile, recalled the great valour and sacrifice by the Muktijoddhas, Biranganas and bravehearts of India's armed forces.Last year, Modi lit the Swarnim Vijay Mashaal from the Eternal Flame at the National War Memorial in New Delhi.Bangladesh will be holding the golden jubilee celebrations in Dhaka on Thursday which will be attended by India's President Ram Nath Kovind, who is on a three-day visit to the neighbouring country. This is his first international visit since the beginning of the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) pandemic in 2020.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/50th-anniversary-of-1971-war-today-leaders-remember-sacrifice-of-armed-forces-101639623236954.html
16-12-2021||India||‘Together, we fought and defeated oppressive forces’: PM tweets on Victory Day||Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Thursday recalled the valour and sacrifice by the Indian armed forces as he tweeted on the occasion of the 50th Vijay Diwas (Victory Day), which is celebrated to mark the creation of Bangladesh following Pakistan's defeat in the 1971 war. He also said President Ram Nath Kovind's presence in Dhaka is of "special significance to every Indian"."On the 50th Vijay Diwas, I recall the great valour and sacrifice by the Muktijoddhas, Biranganas and bravehearts of the Indian Armed Forces. Together, we fought and defeated oppressive forces. Rashtrapati Ji’s presence in Dhaka is of special significance to every Indian," PM Modi wrote on Twitter.The President is on a three-day visit to Bangladesh to take part in the celebrations of Victory Day. He has been invited to the celebration as "guest of honour" by Bangladesh President Abdul Hamid.As part of the celebration, President Kovind is also scheduled to inaugurate the renovated Sri Ramna Kali Mandir, which was completely destroyed by Pakistani forces during Operation Searchlight in 1971, foreign secretary Harsh Vardhan Shringla informed on Wednesday.A 122-member tri-services contingent of the Indian Armed Forces will participate in this parade in the celebration parade.Meanwhile, in India, PM Modi will participate in the homage and reception ceremony of 'Swarnim Vijay Mashaals' at the National War Memorial in Delhi.According to the Prime Minister's Office (PMO), as a part of the Swarnim Vijay Varsh Celebrations on 16 December last year, the Prime Minister lit the Swarnim Vijay Mashaal from the Eternal Flame at the National War Memorial.He also lit four flames that were to traverse along with different directions. Since then, these four flames have traversed across the length and breadth of the country, including to Siachen, Kanyakumari, Andaman and Nicobar Islands, Longewala, Rann of Kutch, Agartala.The flames were taken to key battle areas and also to the houses of gallantry award winners and veterans of the 1971 war.On Thursday, during the Homage Ceremony, these four flames were merged by the Prime Minister with the Eternal Flame at the National War Memorial.(With agency inputs)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/together-we-fought-and-defeated-oppressive-forces-tweets-pm-modi-on-victory-101639631039350.html
16-12-2021||India||NHRC can intervene when rights are violated under AFSPA, says member||SHILLONG: The National Human Rights Commission (NHRC) can intervene if the Armed Forces Special Powers Act (AFSPA) is seen to have been misused but can’t recommend repeal of the law, visiting member of the human rights body Justice (retired) Mahesh Mittal Kumar said on Wednesday. Kumar’s assertion at the end of a two-day camp hearing in Shillong comes against the backdrop of demands to repeal the controversial law following the Nagaland firing incident which claimed over 14 lives on December 4.“If something has been done under AFSPA which was absolutely unwarranted, we will interfere but if you say that we can make recommendations for repealing, that we are not competent,” Justice Kumar said.He, however, urged people to come forward with complaints whenever AFSPA has been misused.To be sure, NHRC has sought a report on the death of civilians in the botched army operation.AFSPA, which grants special powers to the forces to maintain public order in “disturbed areas”, has been a contentious issue in the northeast for decades, with civil society members saying it gives security personnel impunity to carry out excesses, and defence forces saying that it helps them maintain order in restive areas.The special law is in force in Nagaland, Assam, Manipur (excluding seven assembly constituencies in Imphal) and parts of Arunachal Pradesh. Under the law, local police need prior approval of the central government to prosecute army or paramilitary forces in civilian courtsChief ministers of Nagaland, Neiphiu Rio, Conrad Sangma of Sikkim and N Biren Singh of Manipur have sought the removal of the law after 14 civilians were shot dead by security personnel during a botched ambush and a subsequent confrontation with local villagers on December 4.The NHRC member underlined that legislation can be challenged before the court of law on two counts – if it violates basic structure of the Constitution and that the legislature was not competent to frame the law.“So, on these two counts, legislation can be challenged before a court of law in the high court or the Supreme Court, so we as NHRC will not be able to tell legislation to repeal this Act,” he added.The camp sitting, or public open hearing of the NHRC, covered matters related to the states of Meghalaya, Mizoram and Tripura. The sitting is a platform to deliberate upon human rights issues pertinent to the three participating states, provide a platform for all stakeholders to voice their opinion and concerns, and thus help chart a way forward to address these human rights issues collectively.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/nhrc-can-intervene-when-rights-are-violated-under-afspa-says-member-101639630063731.html
16-12-2021||India||India's logs 7,974 new Covid-19 cases; active caseload down to 87,245||India registered a total of 7,974 fresh cases of Covid-19 in the last 24 hours, according to the Union health ministry bulletin on Thursday morning. The new infections are 14 per cent higher than Wednesday's tally. Meanwhile, the death toll rose to 4,76,478 with 343 more fatalities.The active caseload has now come down to 87,245 while the recoveries rose by 7,948 to 3,41,54,879, the highest since March 2020.The national tally of daily infections include a total of 73 cases of the new Omicron variant of the coronavirus disease after at least 12 new cases of the strain were reported across India on Wednesday.The Omicron cases were reported in several states as follows – four each in Maharashtra and Kerala, two in Telangana, and one each in Tamil Nadu and West Bengal.Omicron cases in India were first reported on December 2 when two people in Bangalore – a 66-year-old and a 46-year-old male — tested positive for the variant.State and central governments have, as a result, stepped up tracking and tracing the emergence of the new variant.Meanwhile, the Union health ministry has also asked states to vigorously screen and test all passengers coming in international flights and has extended all Covid restrictions till December 31.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/indias-logs-7-974-new-covid-19-cases-active-caseload-down-to-87245-101639626835284.html
16-12-2021||India||'Will not contest any elections', says BKU leader Rakesh Tikait as farm agitation ends||Bharatiya Kisan Union (BKU) leader Rakesh Tikait has said he will not contest any elections as he returned to Meerut after spearheading a year-long protests against now withdrawn farm laws. He also urged political parties to not use his photos or name in their posters. "I'm not going to contest any election and no political party should use my name or photo in their posters," news agency ANI quoted the farm leader as saying.Tikait is the national spokesperson of BKU, a farmers' outfit which is a part of the Samyukta Kisan Morcha (SKM), an umbrella body under which the farmers had banded together to protest against the three legislations. The laws were enacted by the government in September last year, with an aim to open the agriculture sector to the private players.However, protesters feared that the laws would erode a longstanding mechanism that ensures farmers a minimum guaranteed price for their produce. After the farmers refused to budge from their stand for over a year, the government formally withdrew the laws on November 29. It also sent a letter to farmers promising to form a committee on Minimum Support Price (MSP) and acceptance notice of their other demands.Following this, the farmers are now heading back to their respective states in large convoys of tractors and trucks, in the same way, they arrived at the Singhu, Ghazipur and Tikri on the outskirts of the national capital a year ago.Tikait also returned to his home in Meerut on Wednesday. The 51-year-old has been leading BKU supporters at the Ghazipur border since November 28 last year.Over the course of the time, Tikait was accused of trying to fuel his political ambitions through the protests.In the past, Tikait served as head constable in Delhi police but quit in 1992-93.He also tried his hand at elections but lost both times. In 2007, Tikait contested the UP Assembly polls from Khatauli constituency in Muzaffarnagar as an independent candidate. In 2014, he fought the Lok Sabha election from Amroha district on a Rashtriya Lok Dal (RLD) ticket.Meanwhile, farmers will now hold a review meeting on January 15. "If the government does not fulfill its promises, we could resume our agitation," the SKM had said in its statement.On Wednesday, Tikait expressed his gratitude to people who have been supporting the agitation. I am thankful to everyone who has been with us. I also extend my gratitude to the people who ran langars, villagers who brought essentials for us," he said, according to ANI.Tikait also asserted that the movement has been suspended and "not withdrawn." "Talks underway with the Center after withdrawal of 3 farm laws. Our movement is suspended, not withdrawn," the farmers' leader also said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/will-not-contest-any-elections-says-bku-leader-rakesh-tikait-as-farm-agitation-ends-101639627288085.html
16-12-2021||India||More than 370,000 cases of crimes against women reported in 2020, says govt||A total of 371,503 cases of crimes against women were registered across the country last year, the government told the Parliament on Wednesday, citing data from the National Crime Records Bureau (NCRB).The ministry of women and child development shared the data in response to a question from CPI(M) lawmaker Jharna Das Baidya in the Rajya Sabha. Baidya sought to know about data on crimes against women from last year.The data shows that in 2020, 398,620 persons were arrested in connection with crimes against women, 488,143 were charge-sheeted, and 31,402 were convicted. Also, instances of crimes against women in the cities went down by 8.3% in 2020 over the previous year.Crimes against women include cases of rape, outraging modesty, dowry deaths, harassment, acid attacks, and kidnappings.Among states and Union territories, Uttar Pradesh saw the highest number of such cases, with 49,385, followed by West Bengal (36,439), Rajasthan (34,535), Maharashtra (31,954) and Madhya Pradesh (25,640).According to the NCRB report released in September and cited by the government on Wednesday, “Majority of cases under crimes against women were registered under [the category of] cruelty by husband or his relatives (30.2%), followed by assault on women with intent to outrage modesty (19.7%), kidnapping and abduction of women (19.0%), and rape (7.2%).”Asked about steps taken by the government to swiftly ensure justice to victims of such crimes, the ministry said, “The Central government gives highest priority to ensuring safety and security of women and has undertaken various legislative and schematic interventions in this regard.” It also pointed out that police and public order are state subjects.The ministry said the government has put in place what is called “Investigation Tracking System for Sexual Offences”, an online analytic tool for monitoring probes. Separately, a national database of sexual offenders has been created.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/more-than-370-000-cases-of-crimes-against-women-reported-in-2020-says-govt-101639625323320.html
16-12-2021||India||News updates from HT: PM Modi to address farmers, scientists today and all the latest news||Here are today’s top news, analysis and opinion. Know all about the latest news and other news updates from Hindustan Times.PM Modi to address farmers, scientists today on natural farmingPrime Minister Narendra Modi will on Thursday address farmers and scientists across the country on natural and zero-budget farming during the valedictory session of the ongoing National Summit on Agro and Food Processing. Read moreNew Delhi’s air quality in ‘very poor’ zone; light rain likely in the eveningNew Delhi is likely to see a partly cloudy sky and shallow fog on Thursday morning, with light rain expected in the evening, according to the India Meteorological Department’s (IMD) forecast. Read moreTyphoon Rai nears Philippines, thousands evacuated; storm surge expectedA strong typhoon is heading towards the Philippines and is expected to make landfall on Thursday afternoon. Read moreAshes 2nd Test: Australia Test captain Pat Cummins ruled out after close contact with Covid case; Steve Smith to leadAustralia's Test captain Pat Cummins is ruled out of the 2nd Ashes Test after it has emerged that he came in contact with a positive Covid-19 case on Wednesday evening. Read morePriyanka Chopra reveals Nick Jonas 'very excitedly' bragged to his fans that she was part of The Matrix ResurrectionsActor Priyanka Chopra has revealed that her husband, singer Nick Jonas was a fan of The Matrix and 'very excitedly' bragged to his fans that she was part of The Matrix Resurrections. Read moreYoga with Pooja Batra – this time, it's the wheelPooja Batra is our fitness enthusiast. The actor, when not working, is usually spotted in stunning foreign locations – travelling and also scooping out time for herself to get in touch with her fitness routine. Read moreWhat President Kovind discussed with Bangladesh PM, counterpart | Key HighlightsPresident Ram Nath Kovind joins Bangladesh leaders in Liberation day celebrations. Bangladesh Prime Minister Sheikh Hasina met the Indian President in Dhaka on Wednesday. Watch here||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/news-updates-from-ht-pm-modi-to-address-farmers-scientists-today-and-all-the-latest-news-101639623192677.html
16-12-2021||NA||Parliament LIVE: Both Houses adjourned till Friday amid Opposition protest||After a massive protest by the opposition in the Lok Sabha over the Lakhimpur Kheri violence and sloganeering in Rajya Sabha seeking revocation of the suspension of the 12 lawmakers, Parliament will meet for the winter session again on Thursday. A complete chaos ensued in the Lower House on Wednesday as opposition parties demanded the removal of Union minister of state for home Ajay Mishra ‘Teni’ after investigators claimed that killing of farmers in Uttar Pradesh's Lakhimpur Kheri was planned.The disruptions delayed the passage of supplementary demand for grants and debates on climate change and price rise in the Lok Sabha while putting the debate on the Omicron variant in the Upper House on hold.At the same time, the Union Cabinet approved a ₹76,000 crore policy boost for semiconductor and display manufacturing ecosystem to make India a global hub for hi-tech production.The winter session of Parliament started on November 29 and will continue till December 23.Follow all the updates here:Rajya Sabha proceedings adjourned for the dayRajya Sabha proceedings adjourned for the day amid uproar by opposition members.Lok Sabha adjourned till 11am on FridayLok Sabha adjourned till 11am of 17th December following uproar by Opposition MPs over the Lakhimpur Kheri incident and their demand for resignation of MoS Home Ajay Misra Teni.We call them for discussions, they refuse: Prahlad Joshi on Parliament protests by Opposition"A Supreme Court-monitored investigation is going on in the Lakhimpur Kheri case. The Parliament is a place for discussions. We want to take constructive suggestions from the Opposition. We call them for discussions but they refuse," alleged Pralhad Joshi, Minister of Parliamentary Affairs."There is a lot of time left in the 2024 elections. We will also do 'Khela' at the time of the Lok Sabha election, you also do the same, but let parliament discussions take place now," Joshi added.Lakhimpur Kheri: MoS Home Ajay Misra Teni holds meeting with Ministry of Home AffairsMoS Home Ajay Misra Teni, who has been facing Opposition's wrath over the Lakhimpur Kheri incident,  is present at the Ministry of Home Affairs (MHA) and is holding some official meetings related to his department.Minister who killed farmers should be punished: Rahul Gandhi in LSPrior to adjournment, Congress leader Rahul Gandhi sought a discussion over the Lakhimpur Kheri violence in Lok Sabha. “We should be allowed to speak about the murder that was committed in Lakhimpur Kheri, where there was an involvement of the Minister and about which it has been said that it was a conspiracy. The Minister who killed farmers should resign and be punished," he said.Rajya Sabha adjourned till 2pmRajya Sabha adjourned till 2 pm following the Opposition's protest in the House over the Lakhimpur Kheri incident and their demand for the immediate resignation of Minister Ajay Misra Teni.Minutes into proceedings, Lok Sabha adjourned till 2pmLok Sabha has been adjourned till 2pm amid protest by opposition parties.Congress MP Deepender Hooda gives adjournment notice in LS, demands MoS Teni to resignCongress MP Deepender Singh Hooda gives adjournment motion notice in Rajya Sabha over Lakhimpur Kheri incident and demands that the Government take the resignation of Minister Ajay Teni immediately.Congress MPs give adjournment notices in Lok SabhaCongress MP Manish Tewari gives adjournment motion notice in Lok Sabha to discuss “govt's attempts on weakening the Public Sector Banks (PSBs)”.Meanwhile, Congress MP Manickam Tagore gives adjournment motion notice in Lok Sabha to discuss the Lakhimpur Kheri incident, SIT report, and the demand of immediate sacking of MoS MHA Ajay Kumar Teni.Congress issues whip to party MPs to be present in Rajya Sabha todayThe Congress on Wednesday issued a whip for all its party members in Rajya Sabha to be present in the House on Thursday. “Very important issues will be taken up for discussion in the Rajya Sabha tomorrow,” Congress leader Jairam Ramesh said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/parliament-winter-session-2021-live-updates-101639622464815.html
16-12-2021||India||50th Victory Day of Bangladesh: President Kovind to join celebrations today||President Ram Nath Kovind, who is on his maiden State Visit to neighbouring Bangladesh, will participate in 50th Victory Day celebrations in Dhaka on Thursday. The President has been invited to the celebration as "guest of honour" by Bangladesh President Abdul Hamid.Bangladesh is observing the golden jubilee celebrations of its independence from Pakistan in 1971. Notably, President Kovind is the only foreign head of state invited to join the celebrations which also coincides with birth centenary celebrations of Bangabandhu Sheikh Mujibur Rahman and 50 years of Dhaka-New Delhi ties.President Kovind began his three-day visit to Bangladesh on Wednesday. This is the first foreign visit of President Kovind since the Covid-19 outbreak.As part of the celebration, President Kovind is also scheduled to inaugurate the renovated Sri Ramna Kali Mandir, which was completely destroyed by Pakistani forces during Operation Searchlight in 1971, foreign secretary Harsh Vardhan Shringla informed on Wednesday.A 122-member tri-services contingent of the Indian Armed Forces will participate in this parade, he also informed.President Kovind is on a three-day visit to the neighbouring country. He arrived in the capital city Dhaka on Wednesday and was received by Bangladesh President Abdul Hamid and First Lady Rashida Hamid.On Wednesday, President Kovind visited Bangabandhu Memorial Museum and paid his respects to Bangabandhu Sheikh Mujibur Rahman. He also paid tributes at the National Martyrs' Memorial to those who sacrificed their lives in the Liberation War of Bangladesh.He also held delegation-level talks with his counterpart which was followed by a banquet. During bilateral talks, President Kovind assured the top leadership that Bangladesh has a "special place" in India's 'Neighbourhood First' policy. He also underlined that the bilateral relationship based on sovereignty, equality, trust and understanding is mature enough to handle the "most complex of problems".Earlier, Prime Minister Sheikh Hasina called on President Kovind and the two leaders discussed several issues of mutual interest and bilateral cooperation.Meanwhile, in a reflection of close ties, India will also host a number of events to mark the 50th anniversary of the 1971 India-Pakistan war that led to the liberation of Bangladesh. President Kovind is scheduled to depart for Delhi on December 17.(With agency inputs)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/50th-victory-day-of-bangladesh-president-kovind-to-join-celebrations-today-101639620551378.html
16-12-2021||India||2 terrorists killed in Kulgam encounter, operations still underway: J&K Police||Two terrorists have been killed in an encounter in Jammu and Kashmir’s Kulgam, the police said on Thursday morning. The gunbattle broke out between the security forces and the terrorists at the Redwani area of Kulgam district of Jammu and Kashmir last night.The operation is currently underway."Kulgam Encounter Update: Two unidentified #terrorists killed. Search going on. Further details shall follow," tweeted Kashmir Zone Police.This comes a day after the security forces shot dead a Hizbul Mujahideen terrorist in an encounter in Pulwama. The category A terrorist, identified as Feroz Ahmad Dar, was involved in several terror crimes, including an attack in Shopian's Zainapora in 2018, in which four police personnel were killed.Dar was active since 2017, it added.The slain terrorist was also involved in the killing of a girl, Ishrat Muneer, in February 2019."Dar was involved in killing of a non-local labour, Charanjeet, a resident of Fazila, Punjab, and injuring others in October 2019, when they were loading apple boxes in a vehicle in the Zainapora area of Shopian. Besides, he was also instrumental in luring the gullible youth to join terrorist ranks," the Jammu and Kashmir police said in a statement on Wednesday.Incriminating materials, arms and ammunition, including an AK rifle and three magazines, were seized from the possession of the slain terrorist, the statement further said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/2-terrorists-killed-in-kulgam-encounter-operations-still-underway-j-k-police-101639620111283.html
16-12-2021||India||Delhi Police allows traffic movement at Singhu border||After over a year, the Delhi Police on Wednesday allowed traffic movement as well as opened two carriageways at Singhu border after it dismantled all the barricades that were erected to prevent the protesting farmers from moving towards the national capital.“It has been decided that Singhu border be opened from Delhi side also. It has been opened for all vehicles,” Deputy Commissioner of Police (outer north) Brijesh Yadav said. The Singhu Border on Delhi-Chandigarh highway had been the epicentre of the farmers' movement against the three central farm laws.Farmers started leaving the protest site on the Delhi-Haryana border on Saturday after the Samyukt Kisan Morcha (SKM) suspended the agitation following the repeal of the farm laws and the government conceding to its other demands.“Only one part of the road was opened. The traffic was opened only for smaller vehicles such as bikes as the road needs to be repaired at many parts which has been damaged due to the protest. It is high time the authorities repair the stretch soon and open the traffic properly,” Jitin Dabas, a resident of Singhu village said.A commuter, Ashwani Tiwari, however, said it was a welcome move for those travelling to Haryana and Punjab. “One had to make a detour to reach Haryana and Punjab. Even if one wanted to go to Murthal, one had to take peripheral highways. Opening of traffic on the stretch will now save time and money of commuters,” Tiwari, a resident of Azadpur, said.Besides the Singhu border, farmers, mainly from Punjab, Haryana and Uttar Pradesh, had laid siege to Delhi's Tikri and Ghazipur borders on November 26 last year.The roads have already been cleared for commuters at the Tikri border and traffic is plying on the stretch, police said.However, the traffic is yet to be started at Ghazipur border. A senior police officer said that the road is still close for the traffic movement.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/delhi-police-allows-traffic-movement-at-singhu-border-101639618878770.html
16-12-2021||India||Public sector banks to go on strike from today: Know what services will be hit||The employees of state-run banks will go on a two-day strike starting Thursday, their union announced on Wednesday. There are nine lakh employees in public sector banks and all of them are expected to take part in the nationwide strike.The two-day strike on December 16 and 17 has been called by the United Forum of Bank Unions (UFBU) to protest against the government's move to privatise two public sector lenders.UFBU is an umbrella body of nine unions, including AIBOC, All India Bank Employees Association (AIBEA) and National Organisation of Bank Workers (NOBW).Most of the banks, including State Bank of India (SBI), have already cautioned their customers about the strike's possible impact on banking operations like cheque clearance and fund transfer.A meeting was held between bank unions and the government on Wednesday, but no breakthrough could be reached after which the plan to go ahead with the strike was executed, All India Bank Officers' Confederation (AIBOC) General Secretary Soumya Datta said."We reiterated our stand that if the government would assure that the Bank Privatisation Bill (Banking Laws Amendment Bill, 2021) would not be tabled during this session of the Parliament, we would be inclined to reconsider the strike but the government could not give any such assurance to us," AIBEA General Secretary C H Venkatachalam said.The government had in Budget 2021-22 announced its intent to take up privatisation of two public sector banks (PSBs) in this year.UFBU's Maharashtra unit convenor Devidas Tuljapurkar claimed that if public sector banks are privatised, then bank branches in rural and backward regions will be closed and implementation of all the government schemes meant for socially and economically weaker sections will get affected.In Maharashtra alone, around 60,000 bank staffers will go on strike.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/public-sector-banks-to-go-on-strike-from-today-know-what-services-will-be-hit-101639617734907.html
16-12-2021||India||French defence minister Florence Parly to arrive in India today, will hold talks with Rajnath Singh||French defence minister Florence Parly is scheduled to arrive in India on Thursday on a two-day visit that is aimed at further strengthening the already close bilateral strategic ties, people familiar with the developments said.Parly will hold wide-ranging talks with her Indian counterpart Rajnath Singh on Friday to enhance defence and security ties between the two countries besides delving into pressing regional issues, they said.The recent developments in Afghanistan and the situation in the Indo-Pacific region are likely to figure in the talks.It will be Parly's fourth visit to India since 2017. She had visited India in September last year primarily to attend a ceremony in Ambala that was held to induct the first batch of five Rafale jets into the Indian Air Force.In 2016, India had signed an inter-governmental agreement with France to procure 36 of the aircraft for ₹59,000 crore.The ties between India and France are on an upswing in the last few years with cooperation witnessing a significant expansion in key areas.The areas of defence and security, civil nuclear cooperation and trade and investment constitute the principal pillars of the Indo-French strategic partnership.In addition, India and France are increasingly engaged in new areas of cooperation such as in the Indian Ocean region, climate change and sustainable growth and development.The two countries share a close degree of convergence on a range of regional and global issues as well including ways to deal with terrorism and extremism.It will be the first high-level visit from France to India after Australia, the UK and the US (AUKUS) announced a security partnership in September.The AUKUS security will facilitate Australia getting technology to build nuclear-powered submarines.France reacted angrily to the formation of the new alliance as it resulted in Paris effectively losing a multi-billion dollar deal to build 12 conventional submarines for Australia. France is also upset over its exclusion from the alliance.In October, India and France agreed to strengthen the defence and security partnership by enhancing intelligence and information sharing, bolstering mutual capabilities, and pursuing new initiatives in maritime, space and cyber domains.The two countries resolved to expand the defence ties at a meeting of India-France strategic dialogue in Paris that was co-chaired by NSA Ajit Doval and Emmanuel Bonne, the Diplomatic Advisor to French President Emmanuel Macron.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/french-defence-minister-florence-parly-to-arrive-in-india-today-101639616345520.html
16-12-2021||India||PM Modi to address farmers, scientists today on natural farming||Prime Minister Narendra Modi will on Thursday address farmers and scientists across the country on natural and zero-budget farming during the valedictory session of the ongoing National Summit on Agro and Food Processing. The three-day summit, which commenced on December 14, is being held in Gujarat; it has been organised to bring in a focus on natural farming and make farmers aware of its benefits.According to the Prime Minister's Office (PMO), PM Modi will deliver his address through video conferencing at around 11am.Along with PM Modi, Union minister for home affairs Amit Shah, agriculture minister Narendra Singh Tomar, Gujarat chief minister Bhupendra Patel and governor Acharaya Devvrat are also scheduled to give a brief address during the summit."Zero-budget farming is a promising tool to minimise the dependence of farmers on purchased inputs and reduces the cost of agriculture by relying on traditional field-based technologies which lead to improved soil health," his office further said in a statement.According to a report by news agency PTI, the summit is being attended by more than 5,000 farmers. Additionally, some farmers will also connect live through central institutes of the Indian Council of Agricultural Research (ICAR), Krishi Vigyan Kendras and ATMA (Agricultural Technology Management Agency) network in states.Meanwhile, the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) will broadcast PM Modi's address to nearly all 9,500 mandals across the country and its elected representatives will join farmers in hearing the speech, the party said on Wednesday.BJP general secretary Arun Singh and its farmers' wing president Rajkumar Chahar said in a statement that farmers have been invited to all these places to hear Modi.In the statement, Singh also said that the BJP and its governments at the Centre and in states are committed to agriculture growth and doubling the income of farmers.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/pm-modi-to-address-farmers-scientists-today-on-natural-farming-101639616040889.html
16-12-2021||India||'Khela Hobe' in 2024; BJP will be defeated across India: Mamata Banerjee||West Bengal chief minister Mamata Banerjee claimed on Wednesday that the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) will be defeated in the next Lok Sabha elections due in 2024. She talked about the Trinamool Congress’ win in West Bengal Assembly elections and asserted that the saffron party will receive similar drubbing at the national level."During the assembly polls, we have seen the campaign that the BJP had unleashed in the state. Everybody was afraid of it. But the people of the state defeated them. Bengal is a place of communal harmony. What Bengal thinks today, India thinks tomorrow. We will defeat the BJP in the 2024 Lok Sabha polls. It will meet the same fate as it had faced in the last assembly polls," the Trinamool Congress chief said while campaigning for December 19 Kolkata Municipal election (KMC).Read HT Opinion: Is Mamata Banerjee punching above her weight?"I want to see the BJP lose across the country in the 2024 elections. It will be Khela Hobey (game on) again," she further said in the rally at Phoolbagan in Kolkata.This was Banerjee’s first public function after her return from two-day Goa visit. The chief minister said that her sole aim after returning to power for the third consecutive term in the state is to bring industry and generate jobs.Banerjee-led Trinamool Congress is trying to expand its footprint nationally. Apart from Goa, the party is also focusing on Tripura, where it engaged in a bitter battle with the BJP in the recently-held municipal elections.Assembly elections in Goa and Tripura are due in 2022 and 2023 respectively.Also Read | ‘Don’t need character certificate from BJP', Mamata says in GoaThe BJP, however, dismissed the claims made by Banerjee about the next General Elections. “She had said similar things in 2014 and in 2019 and all of us have seen the results,” said BJP state president Sukanta Majumdar.The Trinamool Congress had swept the assembly elections held during the peak of the second wave of the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) earlier this year. Banerjee’s party scored a hat-trick, bagging 213 of the 294 seats, and dented the BJP’s hopes of getting a foothold on India’s eastern coast.The BJP, however, recorded its best-ever performance in an assembly election by winning 77 seats and 38.1 per cent vote share. However, it suffered reverses compared to its 2019 Lok Sabha performance when it won 121 seats with a vote share of 40 per cent.In the by-polls held in October, the Trinamool Congress again gave jolt to the BJP by winning all the three seats - Bhabanipur, Jangipur and Samserganj.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/khela-hobe-in-2024-bjp-will-be-defeated-across-india-mamata-banerjee-101639614289892.html
16-12-2021||NA||BREAKING: UK logs 88,376 new Covid-19 cases, its highest in a single-day||Welcome to hindustantimes.com live updates platform where you can find breaking news from India and across the world. Find fast updates about the latest news as it breaks.Follow all the updates here:UK's daily Covid-19 cases at record 88,376UK reports another daily record of 88,376 new Covid-19 cases.Telangana's Omicron case tally up by 4Four more persons test positive for Omicron in Hyderabad, taking total number of the variant cases to seven in Telangana: Health department5 more Omicron cases found in Karnataka“Five more cases of #Omicron have been detected in Karnataka today. 19 yr male returning from UK, 36 yr male returning from Delhi, 70 yr female returning from Delhi, 52 yr male returning from Nigeria, 33 yr male returning from South Africa,” tweets state health minister Dr Sudhakar K.Kerala reports 3404 new Covid-19 cases and 36 deathsKerala reports 3404 new Covid-19 cases, 36 deaths and 4145 recoveries; 284 deaths added from backlog. Fatalities at 43,946, active caseload at 34,171.2022 Goa polls: Congress announces first list of candidatesCongress announces first list, naming eight candidates, for next year's for Goa assembly polls, former CM Digambar Kamat to contest from Margao.2 new treatments against Covid-19: EU medicines agencyEuropean Union's medicines agency recommends two new treatments against Covid-19.Punjab assembly polls 2022: ECI team meets political partiesA team of Election Commission of India meets political parties in Punjab ahead of next year's assembly elections in the state. “ECI reviewed overall poll preparedness with district election officers/deputy commissioners, among others,” says poll panel chief Girish Chandra.Delhi logs 85 new Covid-19 cases, zero deathsDelhi reports 85 new Covid-19 cases, 0 deaths and 38 recoveries. Total tally rises to 1,441,935 including 1,416,360 including 25,100 deaths and 475 active cases.Extortion case: Mumbai Police arrest absconding accusedMumbai Police arrest Vinay Singh, an absconding accused in the extortion case involving former Mumbai Police Commissioner Param Bir Singh.GST: Centre lowers rate on ethanol to 5%Union government lowers GST rate to 5% from 18% on ethanol meant for blending under the Ethanol Blended Petrol (EBP) programme.Foreign minister of Tajikistan to visit India on December 18: MEAForeign Affairs Minister of Tajikistan will be on an official visit to India from December 18-20. He will meet EAM Dr. S Jaishankar on December 18. They will discuss bilateral, regional and international issues of mutual interest: Ministry of External AffairsTerrorists killed in Kulgam encounter identifiedThe two terrorists neutralised by security forces in Kulgam have been identified as Amir Bashir Dar and Adil Yousuf Shan. Incriminating materials, arms as ammunition including 2 pistols, 2 magazines, 7 pistol rounds and 1 grenade were recovered from their possession: Jammu and Kashmir PoliceMortal remains of Group Captain Varun Singh brought to BhopalMortal remains of IAF's Group Captain Varun Singh brought to Bhopal, a day after he breathed his last at Bengaluru's Air Force Command Hospital.PM Modi to lay foundation of Ganga Expressway on December 18Prime Minister Narendra Modi to lay the foundation stone of 594 km long Ganga Expressway in Shahjahanpur, Uttar Pradesh on December 18: Prime Minister's Office (PMO)Over 1100 fresh Covid-19 deaths in RussiaRussia reports 1133 more deaths due to Covid-19.Delhi adds 4 more cases of Omicron variant, India tally climbs to 77Delhi health minister Satyendar Jain said on Thursday that four more cases of the Omicron variant of the coronavirus have been reported in the national capital, taking the tally to 10.PM Modi to participate in reception ceremony of 'Swarnim Vijay Mashaals'Prime Minister Narendra Modi is at National War Memorial to participate in homage and reception ceremony of 'Swarnim Vijay Mashaals' at the War Memorial.More than 370,000 cases of crimes against women reported in 2020, says govtA total of 371,503 cases of crimes against women were registered across the country last year, the government told the Parliament on Wednesday, citing data from the National Crime Records Bureau (NCRB). Read More12 fresh Omicron cases take national tally to 73A total of 12 new cases of the Omicron variant of Sars-Cov-2 were reported across India on Wednesday – four each in Maharashtra and Kerala, two in Telangana, and one each in Tamil Nadu and West Bengal – as the national tally of the heavily mutated variant continued to swell.2 terrorists killed in Kulgam encounter by security forcesTwo terrorists killed during operation in Redwani area of Kulgam district, Jammu and Kashmir.  The operation was launched by Police and Army last night. The searches are still underway, said police.Delhi's Air Quality Index remains in ‘very poor' categoryDelhi's Air Quality Index (AQI) is presently at 337 (overall) in the 'very poor' category, as per System of Air Quality and Weather Forecasting And Research (SAFAR)-India.PM Modi to address farmers today on natural farmingPrime Minister Narendra Modi will address farmers, scientists across the country during the valedictory session of the ongoing National Summit on Agro and Food Processing on Monday. The three-day summit is being held in Gujarat and it was organised to bring in a focus on natural farming and make farmers aware of its benefits.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/breaking-news-live-december-16-2021-101639614305054.html
16-12-2021||India||SC asks states to publicise Covid ex gratia scheme||The Supreme Court on Wednesday asked all states and Union territories (UTs) to give wide publicity to the Covid ex gratia payout scheme, observing that it is the duty of every welfare state to ascertain benefit reaches all eligible people.“We are here to only see people who have already suffered, don’t suffer anymore...as a welfare state, should worry if the number of applications and claims go up because of wide publicity on ex-gratia. Every welfare state should give benefit to a maximum number of people who have suffered,” a bench of justices MR Shah and BV Nagarathna observed.The bench was taking stock of claims received by states and UTs and distribution of the ex-gratia amount of ₹50,000 each to applicants who lost a family member to Covid-19.The one-time compensation is being disbursed according to the Supreme Court’s orders on June 30 and October 4, which detailed guidelines for disbursal of compensation. The norms are more accommodating than the stricter standards to determine Covid-19 deaths adopted by government-appointed death audit panels.On Wednesday, the bench expressed its displeasure at the slow disbursal of compensation by the Maharashtra government, which reported about 140,000 deaths. “Of 85,000 applications received as of December 9, approximately 1,658 claims have been allowed and payment made. It is very unfortunate,” stated the court, as it directed the state government to clear all claims within 10 days.The bench also asked the Uttar Pradesh government, represented through its additional advocate general Ardhendumauli K Prasad, to get the state to publish proper advertisements in the newspapers and on TV channels about the online portal for processing the ex gratia claims, besides publicising the helpline numbers.It expressed satisfaction at the publicity given by the Gujarat government, which advertised the scheme in almost all daily newspapers of the state.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/sc-asks-states-to-publicise-covid-ex-gratia-scheme-101639600495735.html
16-12-2021||India||To strengthen its base in Andhra, BJP to host massive rally in Vijayawada on Dec 28||The Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) has decided to hold a massive public meeting at Vijayawada on December 28 as part of its efforts to strengthen its base in Andhra Pradesh, where it has hardly been a major force.A decision to this effect was taken at the meeting of the recently formed 13-member core committee of the state BJP at the residence of Union minister of state for external affairs V Muralidharan in New Delhi late on Tuesday night. He is also the BJP in-charge of Andhra Pradesh affairs.A senior BJP leader familiar with the development said the four-hour-long meeting which went past midnight, decided that the party will go all out against the Y S Jagan Mohan Reddy government in Andhra Pradesh, expose its failures, mishandling of the state finances, alleged anarchy by the ruling YSR Congress party and blatant attacks on political rivals.“Hitherto, the party has been adopting some kind of nonchalant attitude towards Andhra Pradesh. But it is time the party takes up an aggressive stand against the government and gain the confidence of the people in the next two and a half years,” the party leader said.He said there had been an apprehension among the people that the BJP had been going soft towards the YSRCP in Andhra Pradesh, as chief minister Y S Jagan Mohan Reddy had been extending cooperation to the Narendra Modi government at the Centre on various issues.“But the core committee decided to put an end to this misinformation campaign. The public meeting at Vijayawada will set the tone for the party’s agenda in the coming days,” he said.The core committee decided to invite a big national BJP leader – Rajnath Singh, or Nitin Gadkari, or Amit Shah or JP Nadda – for the public meeting, which would galvanise the cadres and bring seriousness to the party’s action plan.“A sub-committee would be appointed to make arrangements for the public meeting on December 28 and take necessary permission from the authorities,” the party leader said.The core committee also decided to prepare a comprehensive report on the alleged police excesses against the political rivals of the ruling party and submit a report to the Union home ministry along with evidence.It was decided that the party should focus on attracting youth both in urban and rural areas and entrust them with key responsibilities. The party would also focus on strengthening its social media network in Andhra Pradesh to attract the new generation.The BJP, which had never taken up any major programme in the last two and half years, recently took up a big rally in Nellore district extending solidarity with the farmers of Amaravati who had been on their padayatra (foot march) against the formation of three capitals for Andhra Pradesh.For the first time, the BJP leaders openly extended their support for the retention of the capital city at Amaravati. “In the coming days, there will be more programmes from the party in the form of rallies, dharnas, rasta rokos and other forms of protest against the Jagan government,” the BJP leader quoted above said.
16-12-2021||India||Odisha seeks special dispensation from Centre to catch up with frontline states||Bhubaneswar: Stressing that Odisha was burdened with infrastructural gaps and vulnerability to recurring natural calamities, chief minister Naveen Patnaik on Wednesday told a visiting team of NITI Aayog, the central government’s think tank, led by its vice-chairman Rajiv Kumar that it needs a special dispensation from the Centre to catch up with the frontline states.Patnaik said Odisha has made substantial improvement in the last two decades both in macroeconomic indicators and socio-economic indicators, and that the state’s development interventions have been successful in combating Left Wing Extremism, mobilisation and economic empowerment of nearly 70 lakh women through Self Help Groups.But he added that Odisha has faced 16 natural calamities in the past 11 years causing devastation to public and private properties worth more than ₹35,000 crore for which it needs special assistance. Though Odisha has been seeking special focus tag like for north eastern and Himalayan states citing the state’s vulnerability to calamities, it is the first time that he raised the demand for a special dispensation from the Centre.Wednesday’s demand for special dispensartion was a marked departure from earlier demands of special focus state in which the sharing pattern between Centre and Odisha would be 90:10 for three years in the aftermath of a natural calamity. During the interaction with the NITI Aayog vice-chairman, Patnaik said Odisha has its our own health scheme for cashless treatment in empanelled hospitals with wider coverage to reduce out of pocket health expenditure. “We are the third-largest contributor to PDS rice pool of the country. We have pioneered a conditional cash transfer system for pregnant women and lactating mothers. We have invested heavily for infrastructure development and has become an attractive investment destination in manufacturing and mining Industries,” he said.Kumar congratulated Patnaik for the increase in the state’s per capita income, improvement in agriculture and mining along with managing the fiscal deficit below five percent. He also advised the state to improve its mining production and proposed that Odisha sets up a Sustainable Development Goals Monitoring Unit. He also offered to partner with Odisha for developing a state-specific development blueprint for the state.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/odisha-seeks-special-dispensation-from-centre-to-catch-up-with-frontline-states-101639598018664.html
16-12-2021||India||Kerala’s ambitious unisex uniform plan in schools runs into rough weather||With the idea of gender neutral uniforms in schools gaining momentum in Kerala, a section of the Muslim community has begun opposing it accusing the Left Front government of forcing a modern dress concept on school children. Protests erupted when more than a dozen schools in the state shifted to the gender neutral uniform and the government pledged support to the new initiative. Many women’s outfits have also lauded the new initiative saying it will help bridge gender gap. A protest rally was held under the aegis of the Muslim Co-ordination Committee in Balussery in Kozhikode district on Wednesday. The government higher secondary school in Balussery had made a unisex dress, pant and shirt, for both boys and girls part of their uniform from Wednesday. The new uniform pattern was introduced in higher classes, class 10 onwards and state higher education minister R Bindu inaugurated the event. “It is a welcome move. At a time when the world is heralding an age of gender justice and equality such steps will give right direction to bridge the gender gap,” said the minister lauding students who welcomed the new initiative with open arms. She said people who love children will not oppose such a progressive step. “When we start a new move opposition is natural. But the government will whole-heartedly support such initiatives,” she said. But protestors said the new rule infringe upon girl students’ right to wear what they wish. Interestingly, not a single woman was there in the protest and many girl students came out to say that they are comfortable with the unisex dress. “It is a welcome initiative and will help boost confidence of girl children. Orthodox sections have no right to dictate terms,” said women’s rights activist Viji Palothodi who fought a valiant battle for the right to sit for sales girls while on duty. Protestors, however, insisted that the move was anti-democratic and an encroachment on women’s right to wear anything they wished. But many girl students said orthodox sections were wary that the new system will hinder the Arab dress culture of burqua (veil) which is quite prevalent in many Muslim-dominated areas in the state. “They are pushing us to use the veil and they fear their hold will vanish. This is a decent dress and girls can cover their head also,” said a Muslim student. School principal R Indu said a decision was taken after consulting parents and other stake holders. She said students who want to wear a shawl or muffler due to religious reasons are allowed and there is no compulsion on the part of the school and asked all to support the new initiative. “In higher classes there are around 200 girls and 60 boy students. Some of the girls are forced to wear pant and shirt. There was no discussion before introducing such a system. It is part of imposing liberal ideologies on students,” a spokesperson of the Muslim co-ordination committee said. An umbrella organization, many outfits including the Muslim Students Federation, youth wing of the Muslim League, is part of it. He said his organization will extend the protest to other parts of the state if the government insisted on the move. A school in Ernakulam district, Valayanchirangara government school, was a pioneer in unisex uniforms-- in 2017 it introduced three-fourths for all children and it is doing well till date. 
16-12-2021||India||Madras high court asks CBI to probe Koreans’ escape from Tamil Nadu police custody||The Madras high court has ordered a CBI investigation into the escape of two South Korean nationals from the custody of Tamil Nadu police, according to news agencies. A division bench consisting of justices PN Prakash and R Hemalatha issued the orders on Monday in an oral observation when the duo’s habeas corpus petition came up for hearing. Choe Jae Won (42) and Choi Yong Suk (47), the general manager and managing director, respectively, of Chowel India Private Limited and residents of Kancheepuram district were arrested in June 2019 on charges of GST fraud to the tune of ₹40 crore under Section 69 of CGST Act, 2017. They were lodged at the Puzhal Central Prison and in November they were sent to the Foreigners Detention Camp in Trichy district. In April 2020 the duo filed a petition in the high court to allow them to stay in their Oragadam residence in Kancheepuram due to the Covid-19 pandemic on the grounds that, the authorities in the Trichy camp had not taken proper measures of spraying any disinfectant and that social distancing was not properly maintained there. Though the high court rejected their petition, the Supreme Court allowed them to be detained in their own residence under police security for which they had to pay monthly costs as incurred by the state. The state government on Monday informed the court that the two have escaped house arrest and suspect that they used forged documents to flee to South Korea via Manipur last month. The court has directed the CBI to conduct an inquiry into the incidents and produce a preliminary investigation report by January 25, 2022, according to news agencies. The Chowel India Private Limited is engaged in the business of manufacturing Cowl bar, bumper and seat frames used in motor vehicles. The allegation against the Company is that it collected GST from their buyers, and has not remitted the same to the Government of India, since August 2017. 
16-12-2021||India||Kerala high court rejects plea against reappointment of V-C of Kannur varsity||The Kerala high court on Wednesday rejected a plea questioning the reappointment of Dr Gopinath Raveendran as the Kannur University vice-chancellor, bringing relief for the state government. His reappointment was one of the reasons for the recent tiff between the state government and Governor Arif Mohammad Khan. The governor had sent a strongly-worded letter to the CM, saying he was forced to make certain appointments including that of Kannur VC. Raveendran was reappointed as the VC on November 23, the day his first term ended. The plea challenging the reappointment was moved by university senate member Ramachandran Keezoth and two others. They pleaded that the reappointment was against the norms of the University Grants Commission and that Raveendran has crossed the permissible age of 60 years. They also contended that it was done in spite of some appointments made by the VC flouting norms. But Justice Amit Rawal dismissed the plea, observing that all records produced before the court show that norms were place. Though the petition was filed last month, the court refused to entertain the petitioner’s bid to file a fresh affidavit in view of the raging controversy between the government and the governor. Petitioners said they will move the division bench against the single-judge verdict. State higher education minister R Bindu welcomed the HC verdict. Her two letters to the governor were leaked out recently in which she asked Khan to reappoint Raveendran and do away with the search committee for the new VC. The Opposition has been demanding her resignation, saying she put pressure on the governor to reappoint Raveendran. The governor had sent a letter to chief minister Pinarayi Vijayan on December 8 in which Khan said he was pained over “dipping standard” of the higher education sector and blamed “brazen political interference” as the reason for this. The governor also asked the government to take up the chancellor’s post if political interference continued, asserting that he can’t bend further. The chief minister on Sunday asked the governor not to take any action in a hurry, but Khan refused to budge. According to political observers, the real trigger for the governor-government tiff was the reappointment of Raveendran. He was reappointed for a period of four years after the government issued a notification and appointed a selection committee to select the new VC.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/kerala-high-court-rejects-plea-against-reappointment-of-v-c-of-kannur-varsity-101639596698425.html
16-12-2021||India||Free treatment for villagers who helped in Coonoor rescue operation: Army||Chennai Villagers of Nanjappa Chathiram in Coonoor in Nilgiris district who were the first to start relief operations when a helicopter carrying chief of defence staff Gen Bipin Rawat and 12 others crashed on December 8 will receive free consultation at a military hospital in Wellington, it was announced by the army here on Wednesday. “We will also conduct medical camps every month here,” Lieutenant General A Arun, General Officer Commanding, Dakshin Bharat Area said on the sidelines of an event in Chennai.“There are several old people in the village and they could use these facilities,” he said after addressing a press conference to inform that the War Memorial in Chennai will be open to public from December 16 to 19 as part of the Vijay Diwas which is celebrated annually to commemorate victory in the Indo-Pakistani war of 1971. On Monday, the Lieutenant General facilitated the villagers and rescue personnel. Two villagers, Krishnasamy and Chandrakumar, who first witnessed the crash were handed over a cash award of ₹5,000 each. The villagers rushed with water in their pots to put out the fire from the chopper. Their blankets were used to carry the injured army personnel. They also informed the fire services and police immediately. General Arun on Sunday wrote to Tamil Nadu chief minister MK Stalin to thank him for the help rendered by the state government to the armed forces in handling the situation. “Such support will encourage youngsters to join the army in the future in the interests of the nation. Your actions have sent a message to soldiers that the Tamil Nadu government supports them,” the officer said in a letter which was released by the state government.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/free-treatment-for-villagers-who-helped-in-coonoor-rescue-operation-army-101639596641288.html
16-12-2021||India||Muslim outfits oppose Kerala’s unisex school uniform||A section of the Muslim community in Kozhikode district took out a protest rally on Wednesday against gender-neutral uniforms in schools, accusing the Pinarayi Vijayan-led Kerala government of “forcing modern dress concept on school children”. A protest rally was held under the aegis of the Muslim Co-ordination Committee in Balussery in Kozhikode after a government higher secondary school in the area began unisex uniform system (pants and shirts). The new uniform pattern was introduced in higher classes, class 10 onwards, and state higher education minister R Bindu inaugurated the event. “In higher classes, there are around 200 girls and 60 boy students. Some of the girls are forced to wear pants and shirts. There was no discussion before introducing such a system. It is part of imposing liberal ideologies on students,” a spokesperson of the Muslim coordination committee said. Many others outfits, including the Muslim Students Federation, the youth wing of the Muslim League, took part in the protest rally. No women took part in the protest. The spokesperson also said his organization would extend the protest to other parts of the state if the government insisted on continuing the new system. Protestors said the new rule infringes upon girl students’ right to wear what they wish. They also insisted that the move was anti-democratic and encroached on women’s right to wear anything they like. However, Muslim students said the orthodox sections of the community were varied that the new system will hinder the Arab dress culture of burqua (veil), prevalent in schools across many Muslim-dominated areas in the state. “They are pushing us to veil, and they fear their hold will vanish. This is a decent dress, and girls can cover their head also,” said a Muslim student who didn’t wish to be named.“It is a welcome initiative and will help boost the confidence of girl children. Orthodox sections have no right to dictate,” said women rights activist Viji Palothodi, who fought for the right to sit for sales girls while on duty. The government, on its party, has pledged all support to the initiative. Many women outfits have also lauded the move, saying it will help bridge the gender gap. “It is a welcome move. At a time when the world is heralding an age of gender justice and equality, such steps will give the right direction to bridge the gender gap,” said the higher education minister Bindu, lauding students who welcomed the new initiative with open arms. She said people who love children would not oppose such a progressive step. “When we start a new move opposition is natural. But the government will whole-heartedly support such initiatives,” she added. School principal R Indu said a decision was taken after consulting parents and other stakeholders. She said the students who want to wear a shawl or muffler due to religious reasons are allowed, and there is no compulsion on the part of the school and asked all to support the new initiative and dump narrow concern. A school in Ernakulam district, Valayanchirangara government school, started the unisex uniform system in the state in 2017. It introduced three-fourths for all children.People often call it the ‘three-fourth revolution’.
16-12-2021||India||BJP eyes Vijayawada to strengthen base in Andhra Pradesh||The Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) has decided to hold a massive public meeting at Vijayawada on December 28 as part of its efforts to strengthen its base in Andhra Pradesh, where it has hardly been a major force. A decision to this effect was taken at the meeting of the recently formed 13-member core committee of the state BJP at the residence of union minister of state for external affairs V Muralidharan in New Delhi on Tuesday night. He is also the BJP Andhra Pradesh in charge. A senior BJP leader familiar with the development said the four-hour-long meeting which went past midnight, decided that the party has decided to go all out against the YS Jagan Mohan Reddy government in Andhra Pradesh, expose its failures, mishandling of the state finances, alleged anarchy by the ruling YSR Congress and blatant attacks on political rivals. “Hitherto, the party has been adopting some kind of nonchalant attitude towards Andhra Pradesh. But it is time the party takes up an aggressive stand against the government and gain the confidence of the people in the next two and a half years,” the party leader said. He said there had been an apprehension among the people that the BJP had been going soft towards the YSRCP in Andhra Pradesh as chief minister Reddy had been extending cooperation to the Narendra Modi government at the Centre on various issues. “But the core committee decided to put an end to this misinformation campaign. The public meeting at Vijayawada will set the tone for the party’s agenda in the coming days,” he said. The core committee decided to invite a top national BJP leader – Rajnath Singh or Nitin Gadkari or Amit Shah or JP Nadda – for the public meeting, which would galvanise the cadres and bring seriousness to the party’s action plan. “A sub-committee would be appointed to make arrangements for the public meeting on December 28 and take necessary permission from the authorities,” the party leader said. The core committee also decided to prepare a comprehensive report on the alleged police excesses against the political rivals of the ruling party and submit a report to the Union home ministry along with evidences. It was decided that the party should focus on attracting youth both in urban and rural areas and entrust them with key responsibilities. The party would also focus on strengthening its social media network in Andhra Pradesh to attract the new generation. The BJP, which had never taken up any major programme in the last two and half years, recently took up a big rally in Nellore district extending solidarity with the farmers of Amaravati who had been on their padayatra (foot march) against the formation of three capitals for Andhra Pradesh. For the first time, the BJP leaders openly extended their support for the retention of the capital city at Amaravati. “In the coming days, there would be more programmes from the party in the form of rallies, dharnas, rasta rokos and other forms of protest against the Jagan government,” the BJP leader quoted above said.
16-12-2021||India||Telangana reports 2 cases of Omicron variant||Telangana reported its first cases of Omicron variant of Covid-19 with samples of two African nationals, who came to Hyderabad on December 12, turning positive for the variant, state director of health G Srinivasa Rao announced on Wednesday.Rao told reporters that two passengers – one 24-year-old woman from Kenya and another 23-year-old man from Somalia tested positive for Covid-19 on their arrival on December 12.“Their samples were sent to the laboratory of Center for Cellular and Molecular Biology for genome sequencing and their results were announced on Tuesday night. Both of them were found to be positive for the Omicron variant,” the health director told reporters.The woman passenger, who was found to be staying at Tolichowki area, was immediately shifted to Telangana Institute of Medical Sciences (TIMS). “We have also collected the swab samples of all her contacts, including family members and kept them in isolation,” he said.Similarly, the address of the 23-year-old man from Somalia was identified as Mehdipatnam and efforts were made to shift him to the TIMS soon, besides conducting tests on his contacts. “However, both the passengers have very mild symptoms and there is nothing to panic. They are safe,” Rao said.The health director said a seven-year-old boy who also landed in the Hyderabad airport in an international flight along with the family on the same day, was also tested positive for Omicron.“But the family did not enter the city. It took a connecting domestic flight to Kolkata immediately. Before leaving, the boy gave the throat swab samples for testing and it turned out to be positive for the Omicron variant. We informed the West Bengal government about the same. So at present, Telangana has only two Omicron cases,” he said.The director said it was decided to step up testing of people coming from even non-risk countries. “We are also increasing the vaccination programme on war footing. So far. 41.92 million vaccine doses were administered by Tuesday evening and 97 per cent of the people had received their first dose of vaccination,” he said.Stating that the Telangana government was fully prepared to tackle the third wave of Covid-19, Rao sounded a note of caution about the Omicron variant. “This variant spreads very fast and even through air and the cases are expected to double within a span of two days, unless people take enough precautions,” he said.However, there was no need for the people to panic, as the symptoms of Omicron are not dangerous. “Even those who have taken two doses of vaccination must be cautious and take all precautions,” he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/telangana-reports-2-cases-of-omicron-variant-101639596581727.html
16-12-2021||India||Nigerian man is Tamil Nadu’s first Omicron patient||Tamil Nadu’s first patient with the Omicron variant was confirmed on Thursday night. A 47-year-old man, who had travelled from Nigeria via Doha to Chennai, was found positive for the Covid variant. “He was double vaccinated and he is stable,” health minister M Subramanian told a press conference. Seven of the patient’s family members, including a 16-year-old child and one co-passenger who travelled with the patient from Doha, have all tested positive for Covid-19. Their samples were sent for genome testing and results are awaited. “All eight of them have shown S Gene drop. All of them have a mild infection,” Subramanian said. The co-passenger is a resident of Chennai. They are being treated at Chennai’s King Institute. “There is fear that the eight of them could have Omicron.” Tamil Nadu has made elaborate arrangements for surveillance of the Omicron variant. On November 29, the state decided to use Thermo Fischer TaqPath Assay at 12 RT-PCR government labs to detect the S gene drop, which is a marker of probable Omicron as per the recommendations of the WHO. The four international airports in Tamil Nadu are conducting RT-PCR tests for passengers from high-risk countries on arrival. They cannot leave the airport until the results are released so airports have been asked to make arrangements for the comfort of passengers. If they are positive, they will be sent to government hospitals and if they test negative, they have to quarantine at home for a week and repeat and RT-PCR test on the eighth day. The samples are being sent to the National Institute of Virology in Pune for genome sequencing.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/nigerian-man-is-tamil-nadu-s-first-omicron-patient-101639596578373.html
16-12-2021||India||DVAC raids 69 premises linked to ex-Tamil Nadu minister||The directorate of vigilance and anti-corruption (DVAC) has filed a case against former Tamil Nadu electricity minister and AIADMK legislator P Thangamani on charges of amassing wealth worth ₹48.5 crore, disproportionate to his income sources. DVAC sleuths raided 69 places across the three southern states of Tamil Nadu, Karnataka and Andhra Pradesh on Wednesday. “Further, there is reliable information that they have invested huge amounts from the ill-gotten money in crypto assets,” the FIR says. After the DMK came to power in May, Thangamani became the fifth former AIADMK minister to be raided by the DVAC. Former ministers and heavyweight AIADMK leaders MR Vijayabhaskar, SP Velumani, KC Veeramani and C Vijayabaskar were earlier raided by the DVAC. The DMK, while in opposition, last year submitted a list of graft charges against half a dozen ministers. The party had also promised to constitute a special court to try all such cases in their election manifesto. Thangamani, 60, held various portfolios from 2011 to 2021 during the 10-year AIADMK rule. After Edappadi Palaniswami assumed office as chief minister in 2017 after J Jayalalithaa’s death in December 2016, Thangamani became a powerful minister in his cabinet. In the FIR, DVAC said the case relates to amassing of wealth to the tune of ₹48572,019 during the period between May 2016 and March 2020. Thangamani is the MLA of Kumarapalayam assembly constituency in Namakkal district in western Tamil Nadu. During the course of the search, an amount of ₹2.37 crore, unaccounted cash of ₹2.16 crore, gold ornaments weighing about 1.13 kg, about 40 kg of silver and other incriminating documents were found. The officials also seized mobile phones, locker keys of several banks, computer hard discs and related documents. The FIR said Thangamani was in possession of movable and immovable assets in his name and in the names of his family members, relatives and others which are “disproportionate to his known sources of income and thereby intentionally enriched himself and his family members, relatives and others illicitly during the period of his office”. A case in Namakkal has been filed against Thangamani, his wife T Santhi and son T Dharanidharan under sections 13(2) read with 13(1) (e) of the Prevention of Corruption Act, 1988 and 109 IPC. It added that Dharanidharan showed business under the name of Murugan Eaarth movers and was used as a cover to the “illegal income” of the former minister and assets acquired by him as a “public servant”. “It is revealed that such a huge business in the name of Murugan Eaarth Movers was only on paper and no actual business was carried,” the FIR stated. It said since the likely savings of Thangamani was about ₹2.60 crore during the check period (May 23, 2016 to March 31, 2020) and hence, the pecuniary resources and properties acquired by him and in the names of his wife and his son should not have exceeded the same. AIADMK leaders condemned the DVAC raids describing it as political vendetta. “This is to divert the attention of people from the poor governance as well as due to the issues within the DMK relating to dynastic politics being adopted by the chief minister and his family,” former chief ministers O Panneerselvam and Edappadi Palaniswami said in a joint statement. Number of places where searches were conducted across different locations is Namakkal 33, Chennai 14, Erode 8, Salem 4, Coimbatore 2, Karur 2, Krishnagiri 1, Vellore 1, Tiruppur 1, Bangalore 2 and Chittoor 1.
16-12-2021||India||Kerala reports four more Omicron cases||With detection of four more cases on Wednesday, the total number of Omicron-infected people in Kerala has risen to five, state health minister Veena George said. The minister said two of the infected are relatives of the first patient, a UK-returned doctor. Earlier his wife and mother were tested Covid positive and their samples were sent to the Rajiv Gandhi Centre for Biotechnology in the state capital. The minister said two other infected also returned the country recently. Among two, one is a 26-year-old woman arrived from the middle-east and other from Congo in Africa. The minister said condition of all patients stable and there was no need to panic and the state government has taken all steps to curb the spread of the new variant. Struggling with heavy Covid-19 caseload the state was on high alert after new variant was detected in the country last month. For more than six months it has been reporting maximum virus cases in the country and in death rate it is on second spot after Maharashtra. Meanwhile, Kerala reported 4,006 new Covid-19 cases on Wednesday after 65,704 samples were tested with a test positivity rate of 6.09 per cent. It also reported 37 deaths, taking total fatalities to 43,626.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/kerala-reports-four-more-omicron-cases-101639596518588.html
16-12-2021||India||Karnataka: Bill to stop forcible conversions may be tabled in winter session||The proposed bill by the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) to stop forcible conversions takes shape with chief minister Basavaraj Bommai holding a high-level meeting with his cabinet on Wednesday to help table the bill in the ongoing winter session of the Karnataka legislature. Araga Jnanendra, Karnataka’s minister for home affairs, told Hindustan Times that the proposed bill will be drafted after carefully studying similar legislations in other states to bring in a comprehensive law to stop religious conversions. “Under the Constitution there is a clause that restricts forcible conversions. But there was no penal clause if there were conversions done by force or inducements,” Jnanendra told Hindustan Times on Wednesday. The Bommai government is burning the midnight oil to introduce the bill that augurs well with demands by right-wing groups who consider religious conversions, purportedly by force or inducement, as a threat to its culture and way of life. Since the proposal to introduce the bill in September, civil rights and Christian groups have alleged that there have been targeted attacks on the community. In 11 months, Karnataka reported 39 incidents of hate crimes against the Christian community in Karnataka in 2021, said a report by the People’s Union for Civil Liberties (PUCL) on Tuesday, HT reported. The report listed several right-wing organisations, alleging their role in the attack and it went on to say that two MLAs of the ruling BJP, too, were involved in the attacks. “In two instances of hate crimes in Karwar (October 4) and Mandya (January 25), Bharatiya Janata Party MLA Sunil Kumar and 3-time BJP MLA Narayana Gowda (currently Minister of State for Youth Empowerment and Sports, Planning, Program monitoring, and Statistics) were also named as people who supported the police in targeting Christians,” the report said. The Karnataka government argues that a bill is required to equip the police to stop such conversions but is still unclear on the vigilantism it is likely to fuel. “Once an application to convert is submitted, it will be probed by DC (deputy commissioner) to see if it was done by force or by any promises and only then be given approval. Then the same is informed to all departments and they will lose their religious status and all benefits that come with it,” the home minister said. The bill is an extension of the efforts by the BJP and its ideological parent, Rashtriya Swayamsevak Sangh (RSS), to bring in laws in line with the party’s core thinking, experts say. The BJP government in Karnataka has already implemented the anti-cattle slaughter law and is in the process to bring in amendments to the special marriages act which the Sangh Parivar refers to as ‘love jihad’. The anti-conversion bill also has longer jail terms and more penal provisions to restrict the activity. The proposed bill to stop forcible religious conversions is likely to have clauses of extended jail terms possibly ranging between 3-10 years, the minister said. It will also include stringent checks to ensure there was no use of force or rewards to convert the individual as well as effectively ruling out any possibility of double benefit in reservation categories. The Christian community and other rights activists have called it a tactic by Bommai to deflect attention away from the corruption charges the government currently faces including the Bitcoin scandal in which senior BJP leaders are alleged to have laundered ill-gotten money through cryptocurrencies.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/karnatakabill-to-stop-forcible-conversions-may-be-tabled-in-winter-session-101639596279474.html
16-12-2021||India||After MLC polls, JD(S) faces setback but Gowda kin gains clout||The Janata Dal (Secular) or JD(S) continues to witness a rapid slide in its electoral fortunes, with less than a year-and-a-half left for assembly elections. On Tuesday, the party managed to win just two seats in the MLC elections, whereas its opposition, Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) and Congress, bagged 11 seats each. However, former party members and political experts have pointed out that despite its poor show in the recent elections, the fortune of the first family of the JD(S), headed by former prime minister HD Deve Gowda, appears to be thriving, albeit at the cost of the party.Suraj Revanna, the third grandson of Gowda and son of the former minister, HD Revanna, emerged victorious in the December 10 MLC polls, making him the eighth member of the family to enter active politics.Suraj’s brother, Prajwal, is the lone JD(S) Lok Sabha member, while his mother is a former Zilla Panchayat president. Revanna’s brother and former chief minister HD Kumaraswamy and his wife, Anita, are legislators from Channapatana and Ramanagara, respectively. Their only son, Nikhil, unsuccessfully contested the 2019 parliament elections from Mandya, which was earlier considered a stronghold of the regional outfit.DC Thamanna, the MLA from Maddur is the father-in-law of Gowda’s son HD Ramesh.Thamanna’s daughter, Soumya, has expressed to take her father’s place in the next elections.The constant backing of family over the party has cost the Gowda clan in recent years. Gowda himself faced defeat at the hands of a relatively unknown candidate of the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) in 2019 when the former prime minister decided to field Prajwal from his home constituency of Hassan and stand in neighbouring Tumakuru.“There is no parliamentary board, executive committee or working committee within the party. Even though Kumaraswamy is the state president of the JD(S), all decisions are taken by him. Earlier it was a family-ruled regional party but has now become just a family party,” Ramesh Babu, ex-MLC with the JD(S), and now a Congress spokesperson told Hindustan Times on Wednesday.Reacting to the decimation of the party in the MLC polls, Kumaraswamy said, “The statement they give about the JD(S), in their parties they are encouraging family politics. Both the BJP and Congress do not have the morality to speak on the JD(S).”There is no denying that the BJP and Congress have their family members in elected roles but which, some argue, has not caused an existential crisis for the party and has had an impact only on the individual leader.Siddaramaiah, the then chief minister in 2018, lost from Chamundeshwari constituency after he decided to vacate his earlier seat Varuna to placate his son Yatindra, who won.The alleged corruption and running of a parallel government by BS Yediyurappa’s son, BY Vijayendra, cost the 78-year-old leader his cherished chief minister seat.When it comes to the JD (S), several legislators like Gubbi Srinivas, GT Deve Gowda and Srinivas Gowda, among others, are looking for a way out. Siddaramaiah, too, was forced out of the JD(S) after he was denied the top post in favour of Kumaraswamy in 2006.Babu said that the JD(S) has no ideology left as Gowda is no longer in charge of party affairs. be sure, the growth of the family in politics has added to troubles within the Gowda household, which is a divided house, with Revanna on one side and Kumaraswamy on the other.Revanna has four members of his immediate family in elected roles, while Kumaraswamy and his wife, both legislators, are trying to bring their actor-son Nikhil into active politics to balance the scales.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/after-mlc-polls-jd-s-faces-setback-but-gowda-kin-gains-clout-101639596278195.html
16-12-2021||India||Surge in Omicron cases likely in January warns Maharashtra govt||With Maharashtra continuing to record new Omicron cases for the fourth straight day, with four more cases of the variant being detected on Wednesday, the state government is expecting a “large” number of Omicron cases in January. The tally of the Omicron variant in the state climbed to 32 on Wednesday. Of the four new cases, two were detected in Osmanabad, while one case each was detected in Mumbai and Buldhana, the state health department said. However, 25 of the total patients have been discharged after negative RT-PCR test reports.Dr Pradeep Vyas, additional chief secretary (health), told the state cabinet that Maharashtra will see a large number of Omicron cases in January. “Omicron infections are increasing rapidly in the world and patients are also being detected in Maharashtra. These patients can be found not only in big cities but also in small towns. Next month, in January, a large number of people in the state will be infected with Omicron,” Vyas told the cabinet during a presentation on the Covid-19 situation in the state.According to the statement of the health department, all Omicron cases detected on Wednesday had history of foreign travel or were close contacts of ones with international travel history. “Based on preliminary information, patients from Osmanabad travelled to Sharjah, and another patient is his high-risk contact. The patient from Buldhana had travelled to Dubai while the Mumbai patient had travelled to Ireland,” the statement said.The new detections include a minor and at least one senior citizen. Among the four new cases, there are three men and one woman. The infected persons are isolated in a hospital and are asymptomatic. Three of the infected persons have been vaccinated, while one is not eligible for vaccination as the patient is 16-years-old.The state administration is concerned that the new variant has been detected in rural parts of Maharashtra, and not just in urban centres. So far, Omicron cases have been found in eight of the 36 districts of Maharashtra, including Mumbai, Thane, Palghar, Nagpur, Pune, Latur, Buldhana, and Osmanabad.“So far, the cases are restricted to people with foreign travel or their close contacts. So did the first wave of infections. But soon it spread among other categories of people. Similarly, Omicron is expected to follow the same route, but with a faster pace given its high transmissibility. The bright side in this is that we now know what to do and have a protocol. Tight screenings at the airports and strict contact tracing will help us contain the spread of Omicron as much as possible,” an official from the health department said.Chief Minister Uddhav Thackeray on Wednesday directed the district and civic administration to push for full vaccination of citizens in the shortest time possible. So far, 12,58,94,156 doses have been administered in the state, according to the CoWin dashboard – the central database of all vaccination information in India. Of them, 4,75,98,808 citizens are fully vaccinated.Even as the state is anticipating a large number of Omicron cases in January, the government is not looking at imposing any curbs or restrictions. However, Mumbai guardian minister Aslam Shaikh on Wednesday said that the Mumbai civic body will not give permissions for any major events around Christmas and the New Year. “Looking at the rise in the Omicron cases, no big events will be allowed,” Shaikh, who is the guardian minister of Mumbai City, said. He added that the state government has already issued orders on cap on attendees for indoor and outdoor events, which will be followed.Experts have said that the state government should look to stop all congregations to contain the spread. Subhash Salunkhe, a member of the national Covid task force, said, “Based on these early warning signals, my recommendations to the Government of India and the state governments would be to stop all congregations--political, cultural and social.” Salunkhe was the technical advisor to the state government before becoming a member of the national Covid task force.
16-12-2021||India||Modi urges BJP MPs of southern states to focus on outreach||At a breakfast meeting with Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) ministers and lawmakers from the southern states on Wednesday, Prime Minister Narendra Modi urged them to find simpler ways of improving outreach and connecting with the electorate, keeping in view the changes in the post-Covid world, according to people aware of the details. The PM during Parliament session holds interaction with MPs in batches. According to a party functionary, the PM said there is need to bring a paradigm shift in the way the lawmakers and public representatives build their own image and that of the party. “…For that he said one has to look for ways of identifying sahej sampark (simpler ways of communicating) with the people to improve ties between the party, the government and the people,” said the functionary. The PM also urged them to raise issues of national importance both in and outside Parliament. “The PM spoke to the lawmakers about the work that they do outside of politics. He asked the lawmakers about the social issues they engage in and any projects that they want the party and government to take note of,” said a second person aware of the details. He also told the party MPs and ministers to pay heed to complaints from people and organise free programmes, such as sporting events, for people in their constituencies. “He told them sports economy will emerge as a major focus area so they should encourage sports and fitness and create avenues for training of youth to become sportsmen and women,” said the first functionary. PM Modi had stressed on sports and fitness even at the meeting of the BJP’s parliamentary party meeting last week. 
16-12-2021||India||Opposition meet with Naidu on MPs’ suspension ends on stormy note||A meeting of Opposition leaders with Rajya Sabha chairman Venkaiah Naidu on Wednesday to resolve the impasse over suspension of 12 lawmakers turned into a stormy debate that ended on a bitter note with at least four leaders leaving his chamber abruptly, according to people aware of the matter.The discussions, the people said, entered a rough patch when Opposition leaders -- Leader of the Opposition Mallikarjun Kharge, Congress deputy leader Anand Sharma, the party’s chief whip Jairam Ramesh, Shiv Sena’s Sanjay Raut, and Rashtriya Janata Dal leader Manoj Kumar Jha -- told Naidu how his predecessors, including Bhairon Singh Sekhawat and Hamid Ansari, used to call all-party meetings to take a collective call to end logjams.As the Opposition leaders appealed to Naidu to take inspiration from his predecessors, the chairman reminded them that there has been “no indication yet of any regret from the suspended MPs”. Government managers, too, have been consistent in their demand that the 12 MPs must express regret for their conduct in the last session that led to their suspension, which has led to the Upper House being in turmoil this session.The Opposition has ruled out any apology and has accused the government of suspending “vocal and important members” of the Opposition from speaking in the House.An official present in Naidu’s meeting, who asked not to be named, said: “The chairman observed that an all-party meeting will be called when it is appropriate. It implied that a meeting would serve no purpose when either the suspended MPs or leaders of their respective parties are not willing to reflect on their conduct and regret the same in an appropriate manner.” The Rajya Sabha chairman also cautioned the Opposition members to not to dictate terms to him.The Congress’s Jairam Ramesh maintained in the meeting that “the very least chairman should be doing is bring all parties on the discussion table”.As the talks were deadlocked, Kharge, Sharma, Jairam, Jha and Raut left the meeting to restart protests in the House. Nationalist Congress Party leader Sharad Pawar is also expected to meet Naidu in a day or two.Congress leaders Anand Sharma and P Chidambaram served a notice in the House on Wednesday for the termination of the suspension of the 12 MPs, but it was rejected.In the meeting, Naidu told the Opposition leaders that the notice was not in order.“It was not accompanied by the text of the motion to be moved in the House. Naidu added that even if any notice served was in order, he would need time to examine it before deciding on its admission and he can’t be forced either inside or outside the House for a decision on the same,” the official cited above said. Rule 223(1) of the Rules of Procedure of the House requires that every notice in writing shall be addressed to the secretary general and shall be left at the council notice office so as to enable further consideration.“On the contrary, the notice of Sharma and Chidambaram, scribbled on a piece of paper, was given to chairman Naidu in the House when zero hour was in progress, and they demanded immediate action on it,” said a second official on condition of anonymity.Naidu also consulted House officials ahead of his meeting with the Opposition.“The officers pointed out that in the past too, suspensions have never been revoked before the completion of the suspension period without the suspended MPs or their party leaders regretting the conduct,” the second official said. Officials of the Secretariat have reiterated that since the suspension was a decision of the House, its revocation too has to be decided by the House.The meeting between Naidu and the Opposition leaders took place after Congress president Sonia Gandhi met four key Opposition leaders on Tuesday to discuss the impasse.
16-12-2021||India||JPC report on data protection bill set to be tabled today||The joint parliamentary committee (JPC) reviewing the country’s first proposed data protection law will table its report on the framework on Thursday, parliamentarians familiar with the matter said. “The report will be tabled tomorrow (Thursday),” an MP, who is part of the 30-member panel set up in 2019, said on condition of anonymity.Committee chairperson and BJP parliamentarian PP Chaudhary had last month sought an extension to submit the report on the bill by the last week, instead of the first week, of Parliament session to ensure it was well translated into Hindi as well, the MP said.In its report, the panel has suggested a change in the contentious Clause 35 of the bill which deals with exemptions under which government agencies can access personal data without consent.Kazim Rizvi, Founder of tech policy think tank The Dialogue, said: “We are hopeful that the two-year-long extensive consultation process will result in a progressive report.” Apar Gupta, Internet Freedom Foundation Trustee, said: “As per reports, dissent notes circulated are extremely concerning as they centre on data localisation... the law, if implemented soon, will provide some rights and remedies to India citizens.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/jpc-report-on-data-protection-bill-set-to-be-tabled-today-101639595018048.html
16-12-2021||India||12 fresh Omicron cases take national tally to 73||Mumbai/ Thiruvananthapuram/Hyderabad/Kolkata/Chennai: A total of 12 new cases of the Omicron variant of Sars-Cov-2 were reported across India on Wednesday – four each in Maharashtra and Kerala, two in Telangana, and one each in Tamil Nadu and West Bengal – as the national tally of the heavily mutated variant continued to swell.The new infections detected on Wednesday in Tamil Nadu, Telangana and West Bengal were the first Omicron cases in these states, officials said.All the 12 cases detected in the country on Wednesday were all either international travellers or were close contacts of foreign returnees, which means that there does not, currently, seem to be any community transmission of the highly transmissible version of the virus that causes Covid-19.After Wednesday’s cases, the national tally now stands at 73, according to data compiled across states. With 32 confirmed Omicron cases, Maharashtra has the largest Omicron tally in the country. It is followed by Rajasthan with 17 cases of the new variant, Delhi with six such infections, Kerala with five, Gujarat with four, Karnataka three, Telangana two, and one each in West Bengal, Andhra Pradesh, Chandigarh and Tamil Nadu.One of the new Omicron cases detected on Tuesday was a seven-year-old boy who landed in Hyderabad from Abu Dhabi on December 12, but subsequently took a connecting flight for West Bengal, officials said. He left for a relative’s place in Malda from Kolkata airport. The child’s parents have been placed under isolation and efforts are underway to trace those who came in contact with him, West Bengal health officials said.In Maharashtra, genome sequencing detected four new Omicron cases – one woman and three men – all of whom are asymptomatic, state officials said. According to preliminary information, one patient had travelled to Sharjah and another patient was his high-risk contact. The third case had travelled to Dubai, while the fourth patient had recently visited Ireland, it said. Maharashtra health secretary Dr Pradeep Vyas, while making a presentation in the state cabinet, said on Wednesday that Omicron is spreading fast in the world and Maharashtra is likely to see a surge in cases by January.In Telangana, two international traveller – a 24-year-old woman from Kenya and a 23-year-old man from Somalia — tested positive on December 12 after they landed in Hyderabad, state director of health G Srinivasa Rao said. “Their samples were sent to the laboratory for genome sequencing ... Both of them were found to be positive for the Omicron variant,” the health director said. Both of them have mild symptoms, he added.Kerala health minister Veena George said that two of the four new cases in the state were the wife and mother-in-law of the state’s first Omicron case (that was detected on Sunday). Of the remaining two, one was a Thiruvananthapuram resident who had returned from the UK and the other was from Ernakulam who had just come back from Congo, the minister said.Tamil Nadu’s first Omicron patient was a 47-year-old man who had travelled from Nigeria via Doha to Chennai. “He was double vaccinated and he is stable,” health minister M Subramanian said. Seven of the patient’s family members, including a 16-year-old and one co-passenger who travelled with the patient from Doha have all tested positive for Covid-19. Their samples were sent for genome testing and results are awaited.India’s first batch of Omicron cases was reported from Bengaluru on December 2 when two people – a 66-year-old and a 46-year-old male — tested positive for the variant. Since then, 10 other regions have reported cases of the variant.The Union health ministry has issued an advisory to the states to vigorously screen and test all passengers coming in international flights and has extended all Covid restrictions till December 31. The ministry told states to do proper contract tracking of contacts of persons found to be having Omicron.The Omicron variant, which was first detected in South Africa, has spread to at least 63 countries with one death being reported in UK where the variant is fast spreading. According to World Health Organisation, the Omicron will soon surpass Delta and would become the dominant variant across the globe. Authorities worldwide are racing to determine how contagious the variant is and how effective existing vaccines are against it.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/12-fresh-omicron-cases-take-national-tally-to-73-101639594958099.html
16-12-2021||India||7 plots bought in J-K by outsiders, all in Jammu: Centre||Since the revocation of Article 370 in 2019, seven plots of land were purchased by non-residents of Jammu and Kashmir, all of which are located in Jammu division, the government told Parliament on Wednesday.“As per information provided by the Government of Jammu and Kashmir, a total of seven plots of land have been purchased by persons from outside the UT of Jammu and Kashmir. All the seven plots are located in Jammu division,” minister of state for home affairs Nityanand Rai said in a written statement in response to a query by CPI(M) MP Jharna Das Baidya in Rajya Sabha. The government, however, did not provide any details of the purchase which was also sought by the CPI(M) lawmaker.Before repeal of Article 370 and Article 35-A, non-residents could not buy any immovable property in Jammu and Kashmir. However, in a gazette notification in October last year, the Centre omitted the phrase “permanent resident of the state” from Section 17 of the Jammu and Kashmir Development Act that deals with disposal of the land in the Union territory.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/7-plots-bought-in-j-k-by-outsiders-all-in-jammucentre-101639594839332.html
16-12-2021||India||PMLA will lose its value if used indiscriminately, says Supreme Court||The Prevention of Money Laundering Act (PMLA) will lose its relevance if the Enforcement Directorate (ED) used the legislation indiscriminately, observed the Supreme Court on Wednesday.“If you indiscriminately start using ED proceedings, then the Act will lose its value,” said a bench, headed by Chief Justice of India NV Ramana as it heard an appeal by a Jharkhand-based company in a money laundering case.The bench, which also comprised justices AS Bopanna and Hima Kohli, rued that the PMLA was being diluted by the manner in which it was employed in several cases. “Not just this case. If you start using it as weapon against ₹1,000 (money laundering) case, ₹100 case, then what will happen? You cannot put all people behind bars,” it added.“Every case if you want to use, it doesn’t work. This is not the way it works...Such indiscriminate use will affect the value of Act,” the bench told additional solicitor general SV Raju, who represented ED in the two cases.Steel company Usha Martin Limited has moved the top court against an order of the Jharkhand high court in a case relating to export of iron ore fines (IOF). The firm challenged the ED summons issued to it in connection with the criminal proceedings pending against it before a CBI court. After the high court declined to stay the summons, the firm moved the top court.On Wednesday, the Supreme Court issued notice in the matter and granted protection from coercive action to the firm.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/pmla-will-lose-its-value-if-used-indiscriminately-says-supreme-court-101639594718000.html
16-12-2021||India||Parliament disrupted as Opposition raises SIT report on Lakhimpur Kheri||Opposition parties launched a massive protest in the Lok Sabha on Wednesday, demanding the removal of Union minister of state for home Ajay Mishra ‘Teni’ after investigators said his son Ashish Mishra and others mowed down farmers in Lakhimpur Kheri in a “deliberate, pre-planned conspiracy”. In the Rajya Sabha, the Opposition continued to protest against the suspension of 12 lawmakers.The disruptions paused the debate on the Omicron variant in the Upper House and delayed the passage of supplementary demand for grants and debates on climate change and price rise in the Lok Sabha. An angry Bharatiya Janata Party leader, Shiv Pratap Shukla, compared protesting MPs with Omicron and called them a ”threat to democracy”.On Wednesday morning, former Congress president Rahul Gandhi along with several Opposition members moved an adjournment motion demanding the removal of Ajay Mishra and a discussion on the special investigation team (SIT) report on the October 3 Lakhimpur Kheri violence. The Lower House of Parliament was adjourned twice as Opposition parties continued their massive protests.”They are not allowing us to speak, that’s why the House is being disrupted. Their minister is involved in it (Lakhimpur Kheri incident), at least there should be a discussion on the judgment. So, at least a discussion should be allowed, but they don’t want to discuss it,” Gandhi told reporters outside Parliament. Congress’s Lok Sabha chief whip K Suresh moved an adjournment motion demanding Mishra should “step down immediately so that a fair investigation is carried out and justice is served and culprits are brought to book and farmers are delivered justice”. Rashtriya Loktantrik Party MP Hanuman Beniwal, a former BJP ally, also demanded Mishra’s resignation.Opposition parties shouted slogans against the government and disrupted the functioning of the Lower House during Question Hour. Some members even entered the Well of the House and shouted slogans.Leader of the Rajya Sabha and Union minister Piyush Goyal hit out at the Opposition. “The government is willing to consider their request but they have to apologise for attacking lady marshals and the way they behaved with those who were protecting the security of this house,” he said, referring to unruly scenes in the last session of Parliament.“How can they expect that they will attack them and then expect to serve this House? People had given up their lives on December 13 (2001) for this sanctum sanctorum only for these Members of Parliament and they tried to strangulate them. It is a matter of shame that they are not willing to repent for their actions,” Goyal said. Leader of the Opposition in the Rajya Sabha, Mallikarjun Kharge, rejected the allegations. ”We (Opposition leaders) have not done anything like that…There were, in fact, no female marshal present in the house during the incident,” he said.Union minister of parliamentary affairs Pralhad Joshi said that discussion on Omicron was allowed following a request from Opposition leaders. “Even after that, they do not want to participate in the discussion. Even in the morning they did not allow Question Hour and Zero Hour. In spite of that, we are requesting them and appealing to them to participate in this important discussion,” he said.A UP court on Tuesday added stringent sections of IPC and Arms Act, including attempt to murder, to the FIR against 13 people accused of mowing down farmers in Lakhimpur Kheri, where eight people were killed.
16-12-2021||India||Incentive scheme for RuPay debit card, UPI payment gets approval||The Union Cabinet on Wednesday approved an incentive scheme to promote the use of RuPay debit cards and low value (up to ₹2,000) BHIM-UPI transactions in the country -- in a move aimed at encouraging more people to adopt digital modes of payment.Union I&B minister Anurag Thakur, briefing the media on the Cabinet decision, said the scheme will cost the government ₹1,300 crore.IT minister Ashwini Vaishnaw, who also briefed the media, added that the government will reimburse the transaction charges levied on payments made by people to merchants as part of the so-called merchant discount rate or MDR. The aim is to make more people “move towards digital payments,” he said.The incentive is only for person-to-merchant transactions and not P2P ones that also use the UPI route.Under this scheme, the government will incentivise the acquiring banks by paying a percentage of the value of transactions through RuPay and BHIM-UPI, according to a statement.Vaishnaw said November saw 4.23 billion digital transactions that were together worth almost $100 billion. The government statement added that India has become one of the world’s most efficient payments markets on the back of innovation and support from the government. “The scheme will further spur research and development and innovation in the fintech space and will help the government further deepen digital payments.”Interestingly, last month, Reuters reported, citing US government documents, that Visa executives complained to the US Trade Representative that the Indian government was supporting and promoting RuPay.RuPay is a product of the National Payments Corp of India or NPCI, in which shares are owned by 67 entities, including state-owned and private banks (both domestic and foreign), and payments services companies.This scheme, according to the government statement, will facilitate acquiring banks in building a robust digital payment ecosystem and promoting RuPay Debit card and BHIM-UPI digital transactions, across all sectors.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/incentive-scheme-for-rupay-debit-card-upi-transactions-get-cabinet-approval-101639594359422.html
16-12-2021||India||Myanmar hands over 5 RPF militants to Manipur Police: Report||GUWAHATI: The Myanmar government on Wednesday handed over five militants of the banned Revolutionary People’s Front (RPF), a sister organisation of the proscribed People’s Liberation Army (PLA), to the Manipur Police, a local media report in Imphal said.According to the Imphal Free Press, the militants were reportedly arrested by the Myanmar Army in August and were imprisoned at Monia in Mandalay, Myanmar since then. They were brought back in an Indian Air Force plane which landed at Bir Tikendrajit International Airport, Imphal around 11 am on Wednesday.They were identified as Naredra Nongmaijing, 45, Loitongbam Rajkumar, 46, Thokchom Kalasana, 53, Salam Somendra, 34, and Chaoren Rohen, 45. Senior security officials in Imphal didn’t respond to requests for their comments on the reports.On November 13, the PLA and the Manipur Naga Peoples’ Front allegedly killed Assam Rifles Colonel Viplav Tripathi, his wife and son and four jawans of Assam Rifles in an ambush at Churachandpur district of Manipur.
16-12-2021||India||Supreme Court exonerates three given death penalty||The Supreme Court on Wednesday exonerated three death-row convicts of the charges of killing their six family members in Uttar Pradesh’s Bulandshahr in 2014, noting “various inconsistencies and lacunae in the prosecution case.”A bench comprising justices L Nageswara Rao, BR Gavai and BV Nagarathna lamented that while the prosecution failed to bring home the guilt of the accused beyond reasonable doubt, the trial court and the Allahabad high court failed to follow the principles of criminal jurisprudence while sending the three convicts to the gallows.The court underlined there were glaring discrepancies in the testimonies of the main witnesses of the case; recovery of weapons used in the offence was shrouded in doubts; recovery of clothes worn by the accused at the time of the offence was suspect and the motive behind the killing could not be established.“We are at pains to observe the manner in which the present case has been dealt with... The trial court and the high court were expected to exercise a greater degree of scrutiny, care and circumspection while directing the accused to be hanged till death,” rued the bench.The court acquitted Momin Khan, Jaikam Khan and Sajid. Those killed in the incident were Momin’s parents, his brother, his sister-in-law and her two children. The prosecution had claimed the murders were result of a property dispute.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/supreme-court-exonerates-three-given-death-penalty-for-killing-6-family-members-in-uttar-pradesh-101639594297960.html
16-12-2021||India||SC directs Maha to conduct local body polls without OBC reservation||Local body elections in Maharashtra this year will be held without any reservation for other backward classes (OBCs), held the Supreme Court on Wednesday as it shot down the Maharashtra government’s plea to stay the entire poll process until the empirical data on OBC can be gathered.A bench of justices AM Khanwilkar and CT Ravikumar directed the state election commission (SEC) to issue a fresh notification, declaring 567 seats out of a total of 2,100 as general category seats instead of OBC seats. These 567 seats were identified by the SEC in its November 24 notification as OBC seats for election to Zilla Parishads and Panchayat Samitis.In its order on Wednesday, the top court declared SEC’s November 24 notification “non est” (non-existent). “We direct that SEC notification with respect to OBC be treated as non est where elections have been notified, and renotify them as general category seats so that elections can take place as per the law... SEC must issue fresh notification for 27% seats reserved for OBC as general category and initiate election process for these seats along with the remaining seats,” said the court in its order.Noting that the election process for the remaining 73% seats is already underway, the court directed that the counting and declaration of results for all seats would, however, be done simultaneously and on the same day. This will also include bypolls, clarified the bench.On December 6, the court stayed till its further orders the local body poll in Maharashtra on seats reserved for the OBCs, while rebuking the state for introducing 27% reservation for OBCs through an ordinance two months ago without collecting data. Even as it made clear that the poll process for the other seats could continue, the bench restrained the SEC from notifying seats for OBCs for any election, either mid-term or any other general election. This interim order was passed in separate petitions filed by Kisanrao Kundalikrao Gawali, a former MLA, and Rahul Ramesh Wagh, a social worker.Appearing for the state, senior advocate Mukul Rohatgi on Wednesday requested the bench to stay the entire poll process for three months during which the commission will complete the exercise of collecting data on OBC representation in local bodies. Senior counsel Dushyant Dave, representing OBC candidate Rahul Wagh, also pleaded that the election should not go on without reservation for OBCs.
16-12-2021||India||Calcutta high court rejects plea seeking stay on Kolkata municipal polls||The Calcutta high court on Wednesday refused to stay elections to the Kolkata Municipal Corporation (KMC) due on December 19, but directed the West Bengal government and the state election commission (SEC) to take measures for holding polls in other civic bodies at the earliest and in the least possible number of phases.“...we are of the opinion that the prayer made by the counsel for the petitioner for staying the Kolkata Municipal Corporation elections cannot be accepted and is hereby declined,” said the division bench of chief justice Prakash Shrivastava and justice Rajarshi Bhardwaj, while rejecting the plea filed by Bharatiya Janata Party state vice-president Pratap Banerjee. Banerjee’s plea also sought elections in state’s 120-odd municipal corporations and municipalities on a single day.The hearing on the petition ended on December 10, but the court had reserved its order. On December 6, the SEC told the court that municipal elections in the remaining 22 districts (which have 111 municipal bodies) will be held in six to eight phases by May 2022. The SEC and the state government also told the court that dates for the remaining municipal polls could be fixed later, taking into account the spread of the Omicron variant of the SARS-CoV-2 virus that causes Covid-19 and school board examinations. The bench on Wednesday directed the SEC and the state government to inform the court on a tentative plan for holding the remaining civic elections on the next date of hearing on December 23. “Keeping in view the observations made above, respondent Nos. 2 and 3 (West Bengal government and SEC respectively) are directed to disclose to this court, without any further delay, minimum phases in which the elections for the remaining municipal corporations/municipalities in the state will be held and the tentative time schedule giving earliest dates for holding such elections. We expect that respondent Nos. 2 and 3 will take a decision in this regard keeping in mind their responsibility to uphold democratic principles and to carry out the mandate of the Constitution,” the bench said in its order. The BJP filed a petition before the Supreme Court seeking the deployment of central forces during the elections but the apex court asked it to approach the high court. The legal sparring between the two parties bitterly fought state elections, which the TMC won, and violence that followed in which, the BJP claims, many of its supporters were targeted. During the last hearing on December 10, advocates for the petitioner cited Supreme Court judgments and argued that electronic voting machines (EVM) containing voter verified paper audit trail (VVPAT) are mandatory but these will not be used in the KMC election according to the affidavit earlier filed by the SEC. Senior advocate Jayanta Mitra, who represented the SEC said EVMs given to the state by the Election Commission of India for the municipal polls did not have the provision for VVPAT.“The Honourable Supreme Court had clearly observed that the existing system is not doubted by the court so far as fairness and integrity is concerned but had observed about increasing the machines which are subjected to verification of paper trail to reasonable number. These judgments are not relating to the local bodies elections and in none of these judgments it has been held that the elections should not be held if the VVPATs are not used,” the high court observed. The order further stated: “If the number of machines which are subjected to verification of paper trail can be increased to a reasonable number, it would lead to greater satisfaction amongst not only the political parties but the entire electorate of the country. This is what the court should endeavour and the exercise, therefore, should be to find a viable number of machines that should be subjected to the verification of VVPAT paper trails keeping in mind the infrastructure and the manpower difficulties pointed out by the deputy election commissioner. In this regard, the proximity to the election schedule announced by the ECI must be kept in mind.” Though the court rejected the BJP’s demands, the party’s national vice-president, Dilip Ghosh, said the legal exercise was necessary. “People of Bengal have to move the court for everything because they have no other option. The Trinamool Congress (TMC) never allows free and fair elections,” Ghosh said. TMC leader and state transport minister Firhad Hakim welcomed the court’s order. “The BJP moved the court because it knows it will not win a single seat in Kolkata.” With the polls barely four days away, the TMC announced that chief minister Mamata Banerjee would campaign for the candidates in east Kolkata on Wednesday evening.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/calcutta-high-court-rejects-plea-seeking-stay-on-kolkata-municipal-polls-101639594059937.html
16-12-2021||India||Kolkata’s Durga Puja gets UNESCO heritage tag||The United Nations Educational, Scientific and Cultural Organization (UNESCO) on Wednesday inscribed “Durga Puja in Kolkata” on the “Representative List of the Intangible Cultural Heritage of Humanity”. “Durga Puja in Kolkata has just been inscribed on the #IntangibleHeritage list. Congratulations #India,” the UN agency tweeted along with a photograph of an idol of the goddess. According to UNESCO, the festival was the only Indian one to make it to its list of 20 events and traditional activities.Prime Minister Narendra Modi hailed the UN agency’s decision as a “matter of great pride and joy for every Indian”.“A matter of great pride and joy for every Indian! Durga Puja highlights the best of our traditions and ethos. And, Kolkata’s Durga Puja is an experience everyone must have,” Modi posted on Twitter.West Bengal chief minister Mamata Banerjee said it was a proud moment for Bengal. “Proud moment for Bengal! To every #Bengali across the world, Durga Puja is much more than a festival, it is an emotion that unites everyone. And now, #DurgaPuja has been added to the Representative List of Intangible Cultural Heritage of Humanity. We are all beaming with joy!” she tweeted. In its website, the UN agency said that the festival is “seen as the best instance of the public performance of religion and art, and as a thriving ground for collaborative artists and designers”. “The festival is characterized by large-scale installations and pavilions in urban areas, as well as by traditional Bengali drumming and veneration of the goddess. During the event, the divides of class, religion and ethnicities collapse as crowds of spectators walk around to admire the installations,” it said. As many as 36,946 community pujas are organised across the state every year. Of these, around 2,500 are held in Kolkata. In recent years, several organisations had urged UNESCO to recognise the festival. “Durga Puja occupies the heart of every Bengali. Mamata Banerjee has made the best efforts to promote the festival as a national event. She has given a grant of ₹50,000 to each of the clubs and also held the carnival. Her efforts and that of the puja organisers have succeeded,” senior Trinamool Congress Lok Sabha member Saugata Roy said. State Bharatiya Janata Party vice-president Jay Prakash Majumdar said the UNESCO’s recognition was a gift for millions of Bengalis. “This is a recognition for a culture that has been inculcated and built over several centuries. The UNESCO has recognized the superlative emotion behind the celebrations,” he said. Yoga as an “ancient India practice” and the Kumbh Mela, considered the world’s largest congregation of religious pilgrims, were inscribed on the list in 2016 and 2017, respectively. India now has 14 intangible cultural heritage elements on the UNESCO list. 
16-12-2021||India||Time to review IPC section that says marital rape is not crime: Gujarat high court||Ahmedabad: The Gujarat high court on Tuesday agreed to consider the constitutional validity of the exception accorded to marital rape in the Indian Penal Code and issued notices to the Union and state governments on a public interest litigation challenging the controversial provision. Exception 2 to Section 375 (rape) of the Indian Penal Code (IPC) says that sexual intercourse or sexual acts by a man with his wife is not ‘rape’. “It is high time that a writ court undertakes the exercise of considering, whether the exception-2 to Section 375 of the IPC could be termed as manifestly arbitrary and makes a woman’s fundamental right to sexual autonomy subject to the whims of her husband,” observed a division bench of justices JB Pardiwala and Niral R Mehta.The bench issued notice to attorney general KK Venugopal, the state of Gujarat and additional solicitor general Devang Vyas.”Since the constitutional validity of exception 2 to Section 375 of the IPC has been questioned, let notice be issued to the learned attorney general of India through the secretary, ministry of law and justice, New Delhi,” the bench said. The matter was posted for hearing on January 19, 2022.The order was passed on a public interest litigation (PIL) filed by Jaideep Bhanushankar Verma.The PIL argued that the provision was arbitrary, unreasonable, unconstitutional, violative of Articles 14 (equality before law), 15 (non-discrimination), 19 (freedom of speech and expression) and 21 (protection of life and liberty) of the Constitution, inherent human rights and constitutional morality.It also sought directions to the Gujarat Police to lodge FIRs in cases of marital rape.The petitioner’s advocate Salil M Thakore said by virtue of the exception to Section 375 of the IPC, “protections granted by law to a woman against forcible sexual intercourse is withdrawn and the wife forcibly surrenders her bodily integrity, sexual autonomy (the right to say no) and bodily privacy.”“It thus makes a woman’s fundamental right to sexual autonomy subject to the husband’s whims, as it treats women as subordinates of their husbands,” he argued.He argued that the said exception was “anachronistic to the Constitution, offensive to human dignity, manifestly arbitrary and incompatible with our constitutional morality by violating fundamental and inalienable rights which are otherwise inherent as recognised by the top court.”Thakore contended that the exception violated a woman’s “right to live with dignity, right to fair, dignified and humane treatment, right to personal liberty, right to sexual autonomy and bodily integrity, right to reproductive choices, right to privacy, right to not be subjected to confinement, right to freedom of speech and expression, and the right to protection against inhuman, violent and dangerous acts.”Thakore also pointed out that the exception effectively exempted the husband from punishment for even more grievous forms of rape otherwise punishable under Sections 376(2) and Section 376A (rape by public officials or separated husband).These exemptions against punishment thus include the acts of rape by a husband of his pregnant wife, a wife incapable of consenting or suffering from any disability, causing the wife bodily harm and endangering her life through it, and repeated rapes, it was argued.The advocate said the exception seemed to be based on the outdated and regressive colonial common law principle known as the doctrine of coverture.Under this doctrine, a married woman had no legal rights or autonomy of her own as these got subsumed by those of the husband. He submitted that coverture is incompatible with the Constitution which guarantees equality of man and woman.The exemption to marital rape under India’s criminal laws is controversial issue, and women’s groups have been demanding its scrapping for decades.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/time-to-review-ipc-section-that-says-marital-rape-is-not-crime-gujarat-high-court-101639593822780.html
16-12-2021||India||Fluent, on front foot, Kohli blows lid off captaincy saga||Indian cricket has been in turmoil before: player vs player, player vs captain, captain vs coach, captain vs selector. But it plunged into a dramatic and unlikely crisis on Wednesday when Virat Kohli, the talisman of this generation, and until last month India’s sole captain across all three formats, stepped out of his crease determined to set the record straight. So what if his comments were in direct contradiction to those made by Sourav Ganguly, the president of the Board of Control for Cricket in India (BCCI).In a scheduled press interaction that started off in a frustratingly benign manner -- as pre-series media briefings often do -- Kohli, matter-of-factly but with the fluency usually seen in his batting, indicated that his version of events in the captaincy musical chairs between him and Rohit Sharma were in stark in contrast to those of Ganguly’s. And, perhaps more crucially, that he was treated by the Board in a manner that no one -- definitely not a player and captain with a record as impressive as his -- ought to be.Kohli made it clear that he was never persuaded to stay on at T20I skipper by anyone in the Board; that he did not say he was going to opt out of the ODI series in South Africa; and that his sacking as one-day captain was sudden and unceremonious -- during the fag end of a phone call with the selectors about 90 minutes before they were to pick the Indian team.“Whatever is said about the communication that happened when the decision (to quit T20I captainship) was made was inaccurate,” Kohli said, contradicting Ganguly’s claim on Sunday that he had personally reached out to Kohli and asked him to stay.“I told them that I wanted to continue leading in Tests and ODIs unless the office-bearers and selectors feel that I should not. My communication was clear to the BCCI and the decision was in their hands,” Kohli added. “I was contacted one-and-a-half hours before the selection meeting for the Test series on (December) 8th and there was no prior communication. The chief selector discussed with me the Test team to which we both agreed. And, before ending the call, I was told that the five selectors had decided that I would not be the ODI captain, to which I replied, ‘Okay fine’,” he then said about his being removed from the ODI captaincy.“And in the selection call afterwards, we chatted about it briefly. That is all that happened,” Kohli added, with an air of finality. This was very different from what Ganguly said on Sunday.“When Virat stepped down from T20I captainship, we had requested him not to step down. We had told him that we still consider him as captain and that he should not step down. But, obviously he was not very keen to continue,” the BCCI chief told several news channels and publications, including HT.When this was pointed to Kohli, though he did not name Ganguly, his reply was detailed and not devoid of irony: “I first approached the BCCI that these are my reasons why I want to quit T20I captainship and it was very well received,” he said. “There was no hesitation in the response and I was not told that you don’t give up T20 captainship. I was told it was a progressive step and in the right direction.” Ganguly, himself one of India’s most successful captains, and one who has been at the receiving end of opaqueness and intrigue by administrators, did not respond to queries from HT seeking comment. Kohli also stressed that he has no problem with Rohit Sharma, and made it a point to say that he values him as a team mate.“I have addressed this on many occasions that there is no problem between me and Rohit,” he said. “Honestly, I have got tired of clarifying this for the past two, two-and-half years. I can tell you that no action of mine or any of my communication will be to put the team down till I play.”Terming reports that he wanted to take a break from the ODIs in South Africa, ostensibly so that he would not have to play under Sharma as “lies”, Kohli said that he had never asked the BCCI for one. “My responsibility is to push the team in the right direction. Something that I have looked to do even before I became the captain. That mindset has never changed and will never change,” he said. The captaincy saga began on September 16, when Kohli announced the decision to step down as India’s T20 captain to manage his workload. Earlier this month, Rohit Sharma also replaced Kohli as ODI captain. The decision, according to the Indian board, was taken to ensure one captain in both white ball formats. Kohli said he did not have a problem with the decision. “We haven’t won ICC tournaments. I can understand the reasons. It was never a debate if the call was right or not,” he said. But it was the manner in which it was done, and the comments made after that to the media that he says were blatantly inaccurate, that had clearly perturbed him.Kohli has won 39 of 66 Tests as captain and scored 5,703 runs at an average of 55.36. In ODIs, he has racked up 5,449 runs at 72.65 in 95 matches as skipper with as many as 65 wins. In the shortest format, he registered 30 wins as captain from 50 games with a tally of 1,570 runs at 47.57. “It was handled very badly. We have seen in the past people learning of losing Indian captaincy on a flight. But for the way this issue was handled now, with a cricketer at the helm of affairs, is unfortunate,” Kirti Azad, former India selector and part of the 1983 World Cup-winning squad, said. “Sourav should have remembered his own case; he was treated the same way. He should have made sure that the same should not happen to another captain. There have been icons before and there will be after Virat. But it should have been handled better. To tell Virat as an afterthought during a call that he is not the ODI captain is not done,” Azad added. Going forward, Azad had a word of caution for Kohli. “There was no media at our time. Now there is intense scrutiny. He will have to be careful now. If he doesn’t perform, they will sack him,” Azad said.
16-12-2021||India||Covid-19 and India’s youth workforce||Official data on India’s economy, such as the GDP, its consumption and sectoral component, and RBI’s Consumer Confidence Index suggest that the impact of the Covid-19 pandemic and recovery from it has been uneven. The first part of this series used data from the Consumer Pyramid Household Survey (CPHS) to show how the first two waves of Covid-19 affected household incomes. This second and final part uses the same survey to look at how the pandemic affected employment for different age groups. The analysis shows that the pandemic has worsened the employment situation for the young. This is worrying because higher rates of youth unemployment have plagued the Indian economy for the past few years. Even prior to the pandemic, unemployment was at 25% in the 15-23 years age group compared to 6% overall. Urgent measures are, therefore, needed to address a developing crisis that threatens the realisation of India’s demographic dividend.Young workers hardest hit during the lockdownData from CMIE-CPHS shows that young workers were the most affected in terms of a fall in employment rate during the 2020 lockdown. Relative to the pre-pandemic level (January 2020), the employment rate during the lockdown fell the sharpest for the 15-18 age group, followed by 19-20 age group, and 21-23 age group. This fall was relatively smaller for older workers.Not only were young workers the hardest hit in the immediate aftermath of the lockdown, they have also been far slower in recovering from its shock. For workers aged 24 years and above, recovery was nearly complete by the end of 2020. They were also largely unscathed by the second wave in 2021. By August 2021, their employment rates were almost identical to pre-pandemic levels. For younger workers, by the end of 2020, the employment rate was less than three-quarters that of pre-pandemic level and a full recovery remained elusive even as of August .Almost all older workers back in employment, unaffected by the second waveAggregate employment rates disguise the flux in the labour market caused by the entry and exit of workers. The CMIE-CPHS data allows us to follow the same group of workers over time. The 2020 lockdown disproportionately impacted young workers, as documented in State of Working India 2021. Here, we track the trajectories of the pre-pandemic workers who lost work during the lockdown, and observe their employment during the month of April (at the onset of a second wave of the pandemic) and in August. This allows for four possible outcomes: sustained recovery, unstable recovery, delayed recovery, and no recovery. This categorisation is explained in Table 1.The age-biased recovery is apparent in the trajectories of workers of different age groups. The younger the worker, the less likely they were to recover from the loss of employment during the first lockdown. For instance, in the 27-30 age group, nine out of every 10 workers were back at work. In contrast, in the 21-23 years old age group, only five out of every 10 workers managed to recover employment. And, as reported earlier in the State of Working India 2021, young women workers were particularly vulnerable and unlikely to return to work.
16-12-2021||India||What we know about Omicron||Omicron appears to multiply 70 times faster than ancestral versions of the Sars-CoV-2 in a part of the human body known as the bronchus but less efficiently in the lungs, the University of Hong Kong (HKUMed) said on Wednesday, citing work by its researchers that could explain why the new variant of concern (VOC) has an unprecedented transmission advantage.The new research, currently under peer review, was based on a lab study in which the scientists examined the way an isolated Omicron variant infected tissues taken from different parts of the respiratory tract, and compared it with similar experiments using other versions of the virus.Omicron replicated in the bronchus 70 times faster than the Delta and the ancestral variant, which may explain why it “transmits faster between humans”, HKUMed said in a statement. It also found that Omicron’s replication in the lungs was significantly less efficient – “more than 10 times lower” – which could explain the reduced disease severity being reported from some parts of the world, it added.The bronchus is a passageway in the lower respiratory tract that leads air into the lungs.One of the scientists involved cautioned against drawing premature conclusions about the variant being milder. ‘It is important to note that the severity of disease in humans is not determined only by virus replication but also by the host immune response to the infection, which may lead to dysregulation of the innate immune system, or “cytokine storm”,’ said Dr Michael Chan Chi-wai, associate professor of School of Public Health.He added that by being able to infect many more people, Omicron can lead to more cases of severe disease and death “even though the virus itself may be less pathogenic”.“Therefore, taken together with our recent studies showing that the Omicron variant can partially escape immunity from vaccines and past infection, the overall threat from Omicron variant is likely to be very significant.” The findings mirrored another study that found a significant difference in how the infection occurs at the cellular level, where Omicron is substantially more capable than its ancestors.Omicron (the researchers used an engineered version of the virus) was able to infect target cells containing what is known as the ACE-2 receptor substantially better than variants like Beta and Delta, found the second study, which was led by researchers from the Ragon Institute of MGH, MIT and Harvard.The newest VOC’s infectivity was two-fold higher than Delta’s and fourfold higher than the variant first seen in Wuhan.
16-12-2021||India||Officer battling for life after Rawat crash dies||Group Captain Varun Singh, the only man to have survived the December 8 Mi-17V5 chopper crash that killed 13 people including chief of defence staff (CDS) General Bipin Rawat, breathed his last on Wednesday morning after putting up a brave, week-long fight against death.The 39-year-old died of burn injuries at the Air Force Command Hospital in Bengaluru, and is survived by his wife, Geetanjali Singh, and two children aged 11 and eight. The chances of his survival were grim from the beginning --- he suffered 95% burns --- but the entire country was hoping and praying for a miraculous recovery.He came from a military background.“IAF is deeply saddened to inform the passing away of braveheart Group Captain Varun Singh, who succumbed this morning to the injuries sustained in the helicopter accident. IAF offers sincere condolences and stands firmly with the bereaved family,” the Indian Air Force said in a statement.A top-notch pilot, Singh was flying in the ill-fated Russian-origin helicopter as a passenger. He had encountered a rare, life-threatening emergency aboard his fighter jet in October 2020, but his lightning reflexes and flying skills averted a crash. He was commissioned in the IAF as a fighter pilot in 2004.Tributes poured in for the group captain from Prime Minister Narendra Modi, defence minister Rajnath Singh, Congress leader Rahul Gandhi and several others.“Group Captain Varun Singh served the nation with pride, valour and utmost professionalism. I am extremely anguished by his passing away. His rich service to the nation will never be forgotten. Condolences to his family and friends. Om Shanti,” the PM said.The defence minister, who was in touch with Singh’s family, said the untimely demise had pained him beyond words. “He was a true fighter who fought till his last breath. My thoughts and deepest condolences are with his family and friends. We stand firmly with the family, in this hour of grief,” he added.Rawat was on a visit to the Defence Services Staff College (DSSC) at Wellington to deliver a talk when the Mi-17V5 crashed near Coonoor. It took off from the Sulur air base at 11.48am, and was scheduled to land in Wellington at 12.15pm. But the air traffic control at Sulur lost contact with the helicopter at 12.08pm when it was just seven minutes from destination.Singh was directing staff (air) at DSSC and the CDS’s liaison officer for the visit.He was a test pilot and had flown several fighter aircraft in the IAF’s combat fleet. Just four months ago, on August 15, Singh was awarded Shaurya Chakra, India’s third-highest peacetime gallantry medal, for exceptional courage and remarkable presence of mind in handling a rare mid-air emergency involving the locally built Tejas light combat aircraft (LCA).The standard operating procedure required him to me to eject and abandon the aircraft. “However, I took a few calculated risks and managed to land without any damage to either the aircraft or civilians,” he later said.The award was a deserved recognition of his heroism in the cockpit of what then seemed to be a doomed fighter aircraft. If it were not for Singh’s brave efforts and his decision not to bail out, the aircraft would have become the first LCA to crash.On October 12, 2020, Singh , then a wing commander, was on an LCA test sortie when sudden loss of cockpit pressurisation at high altitude triggered some nerve-racking moments.It was a life-or-death situation but he prevailed and went on to land the plane. “There was rapid loss of altitude, with the aircraft pitching up and down viciously. Despite being in extreme physical and mental stress in a life-threatening situation, he maintained exemplary composure and regained control of the aircraft, thereby exhibiting exceptional flying skills,” the Shaurya Chakra citation said.“He displayed extraordinary courage and skill to safely land the fighter aircraft. The pilot went beyond the call of duty and landed the aircraft taking calculated risks. This allowed an accurate analysis of the fault on the indigenously designed fighter and further institution of preventive measures against recurrence,” the citation added.A month after he was awarded Shaurya Chakra, Singh wrote a warm letter to his school principal with a request that his message be shared with the students of Army Public School in Chandimandir.The message was deep.“It is okay to be mediocre…Whatever you work towards, be dedicated, do your best... Never lose hope, never think that you cannot be good at what you want to be,” he wrote.“If I am able to inspire even one child to believe in himself/herself, I would have achieved my objective of writing this letter.”He has inspired millions of Indians in life and death.
16-12-2021||India||₹93k-cr irrigation plan to aid farmers gets nod||The Cabinet Committee on Economic Affairs (CCEA) chaired by Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Wednesday approved implementation of the Pradhan Mantri Krishi Sinchayee Yojana (PMKSY) for 2021-26 with an outlay of ₹93,068 crore, which would benefit about 2.2 million farmers, including 250,000 scheduled caste and 200,000 scheduled tribe farmers, an official statement by the government said.Launched in 2015, the PMKSY is an umbrella scheme, providing central grants to state governments for specific activities. These consist of two major components by the department of water resources, river development and Ganga rejuvenation — Accelerated Irrigation Benefits Programme (AIBP) and Har Khet Ko Pani (HKKP), the statement said. The HKKP, in turn, consists of four sub-components — command area development (CAD), surface minor irrigation (SMI), repair, renovation and restoration (RRR) of water bodies, and ground water development, it said. In addition, the watershed development part is being implemented by the department of land resources.The Cabinet Committee on Economic Affairs (CCEA) chaired by Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Wednesday approved implementation of the Pradhan Mantri Krishi Sinchayee Yojana (PMKSY) for 2021-26 with an outlay of ₹93,068 crore, which would benefit about 2.2 million farmers, including 250,000 scheduled caste and 200,000 scheduled tribe farmers, an official statement by the government said.Launched in 2015, the PMKSY is an umbrella scheme, providing central grants to state governments for specific activities. These consist of two major components by the department of water resources, river development and Ganga rejuvenation — Accelerated Irrigation Benefits Programme (AIBP) and Har Khet Ko Pani (HKKP), the statement said. The HKKP, in turn, consists of four sub-components — command area development (CAD), surface minor irrigation (SMI), repair, renovation and restoration (RRR) of water bodies, and ground water development, it said. In addition, the watershed development part is being implemented by the department of land resources.|#+|The CCEA on Wednesday approved central support of ₹37,454 crore to states and ₹20,434.56 crore of debt servicing for loans availed by the government of India for irrigation development during PMKSY 2016-21. AIBP and HKKP and watershed development components have been approved for continuation during 2021-26, the official statement said.The AIBP flagship programme aims to provide financial support to irrigation projects. “Total additional irrigation potential creation targeted during 2021-26 under AIBP is 13.88 lakh hectare. Apart from focused completion of 60 ongoing projects, including their 30.23 lakh hectare command area development, additional projects can also be taken up. The inclusion criteria have been relaxed for projects under tribal and drought prone areas,” read the official statement by the CCEA.Moreover, a central fund of 90% of water components has also been provisioned for two national projects: Renukaji dam project (Himachal Pradesh) and Lakhwar multipurpose project (Uttarakhand).“The two projects will provide beginning of storage in Yamuna basin benefitting six states of upper Yamuna basin, augmenting water supply to Delhi as well Himachal Pradesh, Uttarakhand, Uttar Pradesh, Haryana, and Rajasthan and a major step towards rejuvenation of Yamuna,” the government said in the statement.HKKP aims to enhance physical access on the farm and expansion of cultivable areas under assured irrigation, the statement read. “Under HKKP, surface minor irrigation and repair-renovation-restoration of water bodies component of PMKSY is targeted to provide additional 4.5 lakh hectare irrigation,” it said.In view of the importance of rejuvenation of water bodies, the cabinet has approved a paradigm shift in funding of their rejuvenation in both urban and rural areas, with significant expansion of their inclusion criteria, and enhancement of central assistance from 25% to 60% in general area, it said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/cabinet-approves-93-068-crore-irrigation-plan-to-aid-2-2-million-farmers-101639593581515.html
16-12-2021||India||Government reviews oxygen supply amid Omicron concerns||The central government on Wednesday reviewed the commissioning, installation and functional status of oxygen supply equipment supplied by it to states and Union territories, and asked them to conduct mock drills to ensure full functionality of all oxygen-related equipment, people familiar with the matter said.Union health secretary Rajesh Bhushan on Wednesday held a meeting with states and UTs to review the status and preparedness regarding medical oxygen devices and systems (pressure swing adsorption plants, liquid medical oxygen plants, oxygen concentrators, medical gas pipeline system), through a video conference. “Medical oxygen is an essential public health commodity and its uninterrupted supply in sufficient quantity is of critical importance to tackle the pandemic,” Bhushan said, while addressing states and UTs.As part of the preparedness exercise to deal with any surge in cases due to the heavily mutated Omicron variant of the Sars-Cov-2 virus that causes Covid-19, states were asked to review and monitor the status of equipment on a daily basis to ensure that the gap between the gadgets and systems delivered to the districts and installed at the healthcare facilities is reduced to zero.In the mock drill, states have been asked to ensure that the oxygen with the required quantity, pressure and purity reaches the patients at their bedside. The health ministry has directed states to complete these drills by the end of December. The report to this effect is to be submitted to the health ministry through designated portals.
16-12-2021||India||Gurugram namaz issue: Faith and public spaces, through the eyes of Indian courts||A controversy has been brewing in Gurugram over Friday namaz in public spaces. The last few weeks have seen aggressive protests by Hindu groups nearly every Friday; an administration that has been slow to respond; and a weekly law and order issue. The state government and district administration initially granted approval for namaz at certain designated sites, only to withdraw it later amid protests.Haryana chief minister Manohar Lal Khattar said last week that offering namaz in public places could not be “tolerated”. To be sure, this is not the first time Khattar has spoken in this vein. In 2018, the Haryana CM said that namaz should be offered at mosques, idgahs or other designated places, rather than public spaces.The Gurgaon Muslim Council on Monday responded that they are readying a petition to be filed in the Supreme Court later this week against the alleged vigilantism and the prohibition against namaz in public spaces. Before Gurugram, Noida in Uttar Pradesh, another state ruled by the BJP, prevented Muslims in December 2018 from offering namaz at public parks without prior permission.These developments make it pertinent to understand the legal intricacies involved in the debate and the approach of the constitutional courts.What is a public road and public space?In Saghir Ahmad vs State of Uttar Pradesh, 1955, the Supreme Court defined the characteristics of a public road: “The true position then is, that all public streets and roads vest in the State, but that the State holds them as trustees on behalf of the public. Members of the public are entitled as beneficiaries to use them as a matter of right and this right is limited only by the similar rights possessed by every other citizen to use the pathways. The State as trustees on behalf of the public is entitled to impose all such limitations on the character and extent of the user, as may be requisite for protecting the rights of the public generally.”In Sodan Singh Vs New Delhi Municipal Committee, 1989, the Supreme Court said the primary object of building roads is undoubtedly to facilitate people to travel from one point to another. Quoting Byron K Elliott and William F Elliott, the top court noted that a way over land set apart for public travel in a town or city is a street, no matter by what name it may be called. If a way is free to all people, it is a highway.Various state-specific legislations and municipal laws also define “public street”, “public road” and “public space” for the purposes of administration.One interesting example would be the liquor prohibition law in Bihar that includes a vehicle within the remit of a “public place”. Therefore, a person can be prosecuted for consuming alcohol inside a vehicle or even being found drunk in a car.The Supreme Court, in Satvinder Singh Saluja & Ors vs State of Bihar, 2019, affirmed the Bihar government’s excise law as it declined to quash charges against four Rotarians from Jharkhand, who while travelling from Giridih to Patna in 2016 in a vehicle were subjected to a breath analyser test and were found to have consumed alcohol.“When a private vehicle is passing through a public road it cannot be accepted that the public have no access. It is true that the public may not have access to private vehicles as a matter of right but definitely the public have the opportunity to approach the private vehicle while it is on the public road,” held the top court.In April this year, the Delhi high court took a cue from this SC judgment when it ruled that a vehicle is a “public place” and hence, the wearing of a mask is mandatory even while driving alone in a car.Constitutional rightsArticle 19 (1)(a) lays down that all citizens shall have the right to freedom of speech and expression while subclause (b) gives the right to assemble peaceably and without arms. Article 19(1)(c) affirms the citizens’ right to form associations or unions.The Supreme Court in Babulal Parate vs State of Maharashtra, 1969, said that the right of citizens to take out processions or to hold public meetings flows from the right in Article 19(1) (b) and the right to move anywhere in the territory of India.In 1972, a Constitution bench, in Himat Lal K Shah vs Commissioner of Police, Ahmedabad, ruled that the right that flows from Article 19(1) is not a right to hold a meeting at any place, at any time.In this verdict, the five-judge bench held, “We may make it clear that there is nothing wrong in requiring previous permission to be obtained before holding a public meeting on a public street, for the right which flows from Article 19 (1) (b) is not a right to hold a meeting at any place and time. It is a right which can be regulated in the interest of all so that all can enjoy the right.” The top court concluded in this ruling that “in India a citizen had, before the Constitution, a right to hold meetings on public streets subject to the control of the appropriate authority regarding the time and place of the meeting and subject to considerations of public order.”Article 25 of the Constitution maintains that all persons are equally entitled to freedom of conscience and the right freely to profess, practise and propagate religion, subject to public order, morality and health. Apart from the caveats mentioned above, the provision adds that the State shall still be entitled to regulate or restrict any economic, financial, political or other secular activity which may be associated with religious practice.Similarly, Article 26 entitles every religious denomination to manage its own affairs in matters of religion but this right is also subject to public order, morality and health.Courts and use of public spacesA series of rulings starting from the Privy Council’s decisions may come handy to refer to the development of the law in India.In 1882, in Parthasaradiayyangar vs Chinnakrishna Ayyangar, it was held that people are “entitled to conduct religious processions through public streets so that they do not interfere with the ordinary use of such streets by the public and subject to such directions as the magistrate may lawfully give to prevent obstruction of the thoroughfare or breaches of the public peace”.In early 1950s, the Privy Council held in Manzur Hasan vs Muhammed Zaman: “In India, there is a right to conduct a religious procession with its appropriate observances through a public street so that it does not interfere with the ordinary use of the street by the public, and subject to lawful directions by the magistrates.”Later, in the Saghir Ahmad judgment of 1955, the Supreme Court maintained that people are entitled as beneficiaries to use public roads and streets as a matter of right but this right is limited by the similar rights possessed by every other citizen to use them. The top court added that the State is empowered to impose all reasonable limitations for protecting the rights of the public generally.In Railway Board vs Niranjan Singh, 1969, the Supreme Court described the fetters on the right to hold meetings or any other gathering in government premises. “The fact that the citizens of this country have freedom of speech, freedom to assemble peaceably and freedom to form associations or unions does not mean that they can exercise those freedoms in whatever place they please,” it asserted.In Himat Lal K Shah, the five-judge bench reiterated that the right that flows from Article 19(1) is not a right to hold a meeting at any place, at any time. The top court concluded in this ruling that “in India a citizen had, before the Constitution, a right to hold meetings on public streets subject to the control of the appropriate authority regarding the time and place of the meeting and subject to considerations of public order”.Similarly, the Supreme Court in Olga Tellis and Ors Vs Bombay Municipal Corporation, 1986, held, “Footpaths or pavements are public properties which are intended to serve the convenience of the general public. They are not laid for private use and indeed their use for a private purpose frustrates the very object for which they are carved out from portions of public streets.”On balancing the rights of those who wish to use a public space for a particular purpose against another group that complain of violation of their right to use it, the apex court said in the Sodan Singh case that the liberty of one individual comes to an end where the liberty of another begins. “What is required of him is that he should not create an unreasonable obstruction which may inconvenience other persons having similar right to pass and he should not make excessive use of the road to the prejudice of the others.”In M Ismail Faruqui Vs Union of India and Others, 1995, the apex court held that a mosque is not an essential part of the practice of the religion of Islam and namaz by Muslims can be offered anywhere, even in the open, as it ruled that the power of acquisition is available to the State for a mosque like any other place of worship of any religion. At the same time, the court said that the right to worship, guaranteed under Article 25 of the Constitution of India, does not extend to the right of worship at “any and every place”. “The right to worship is not at any and every place, so long as it can be practised effectively, unless the right to worship at a particular place is itself an integral part of that right,” it said.In 2009, the Supreme Court in Union of India vs State of Gujarat, cracked the whip on unauthorised religious structures. “No unauthorised construction shall be carried out or permitted in the name of temple, church, mosque or gurudwara etc on public streets, public parks or other public places etc,” it ordered.More recently, the Bombay High Court, in Mahesh Vijay Bedekar Vs State of Maharashtra, 2015, held that public streets are essentially provided for people to walk and ply vehicles and they have a right to use them. Circumscribing the powers of municipal bodies, the high court held that local authorities cannot grant permission for temporary erection of a booth and any other such structure on any street on occasions of ceremonies and festivals if it is likely to affect free movement of vehicular traffic or obstruct free movement of the pedestrians. Additionally, the high court said that municipal bodies of commissioners/district magistrates can give such permissions only after the police agree to such temporary structures after taking into account the law and order situation. The high court further directed the municipal corporations to frame a policy for dealing with grants of such permissions.In 2018, the apex court came across a question as to whether public premises and parks can be used for performing ‘Ram Leela’, ‘Mata Ki Chowki,’ and implicitly, other religious functions. The issue arose following a decision of the National Green Tribunal denying permission to hold a ‘jagran’ (overnight prayer meeting) and ‘Mata Ki Chowki’ at a park in Delhi. A two-judge bench referred the matter to a larger bench, noting: “The appeal raises a question of great constitutional importance as to whether such activities can be allowed in state owned premises in view of our Constitution being secular in nature.”While the case was referred to a three-judge bench, there has been no effective hearing of the case after July 2018.Three years on, the legal debate concerning legality of religious activities in state-owned properties, like a public park, is set to be revived again with the Gurgaon Muslim Council planning to approach the Supreme Court over namaz issue. Even as the 2018 case is yet to come up for its first hearing, a direct judgment by the apex court on a fresh legal challenge would go a long way in settling the law on the contentious issues, besides defining the ambit of executive’s powers in such matters.
16-12-2021||India||SC junks Maharashtra's plea to make 2011 caste census data public||The caste census conducted in 2011 will continue to remain under wraps. The Supreme Court on Wednesday accepted the Union government’s stand that it is “unusable” on account of inaccuracies in its data, and dismissed the Maharashtra government’s plea to make it public.A bench of justices AM Khanwilkar and CT Ravikumar rejected the Maharashtra government’s argument that it has a right to access the information collected in the 2011 caste census even if the Centre claimed the data could not be relied upon for any constitutional or statutory exercise such as reservations in admissions, promotions or local body elections.“The fact remains that the affidavit by the Union government says that the data collated is unusable. If that is the stand of the Union, we fail to understand how a mandamus can be issued to permit Maharashtra to use that data for any purpose. Such direction, if given, will lead to more confusion and uncertainty which cannot be countenanced,” the bench held in its order.It also took on record a statement made by solicitor general Tushar Mehta, appearing for the Centre, that the 2011 caste census was not carried out as per the Census Act, 1948 but was a one-time measure, and therefore, the Maharashtra government could not rely upon the provisions of the law to seek data.Senior advocate Shekhar Naphade, appearing for the state government, sought to impress upon the bench that irrespective of the quality of data, the state had a right in a democracy to access the caste census and thereafter, it could decide on whether or not to use it for the purposes of making reservation.Naphade sought to point out that on the one hand, the state is bound by the Supreme Court judgment to first collect data before making reservations in local body elections for other backward classes (OBCs) but on the other, the Union government has been refusing to part with the information it has.Mehta, rebutting this submission, emphasised that the Socio-Economic and Caste Census (SECC), 2011, was not made public because it was found to be flawed, and was bound to mislead. “...This data is useless and it cannot help anyone. Please, don’t order us to furnish raw data to the state,” Mehta said. He added that the state could instead have appointed a commission to gather empirical data on castes and classes for making reservation suitably.Responding, Naphade reiterated the Maharashtra government’s demand for accessing the data under its right to know in a democracy, particularly since enumeration was done following a decision of the Union cabinet.The bench retorted: “We will not be a party to any order that will create more confusion especially when we are dealing with public representatives being elected. It is better to conduct polls without any reservation in such a case. You have set up a commission to collect data. Take that exercise forward and take it to a logical conclusion. And in the next election, you would be able to do something for the backward classes. But we cannot pass an order that is bound to create more uncertainty.”When Naphade said the state could vet the data for errors, the bench replied: “How can you decide? You haven’t done this enumeration. You better do your own enumeration. You are going into area which is impermissible. We don’t know which constitutional principle we can invoke to allow your request when the Union is saying this data is unusable.”The 2011 caste census, during the United Progressive Alliance government, was the first caste-based census since the 1931 census of India. It was conducted along with the 2011 census. The first census was conducted in 1881, and since then, the exercise has been conducted every 10 years. The 2021 census was delayed due to the Covid-19 pandemic and it is now expected to take place in February 2022.The order came on a petition by the Maharashtra government, asking for the release of the 2011 caste census data for implementing 27% reservation for OBCs under the Zilla Parishads and Panchayat Samitis Act.
16-12-2021||India||Cold wave to hit north in next two days, says IMD||Cold wave conditions are likely to set in over Punjab, Haryana, north Rajasthan and Chandigarh between December 18 and 20, the India Meteorological Department said. Light to moderate rainfall or snow is likely over the western Himalayan region for the next three days, it added.This, the Met said, is because a western disturbance seen as a cyclonic circulation is forming over Jammu & neighbourhood, while a fresh western disturbance as a cyclonic circulation is lying over Afghanistan and neighbouring areas. Under their influence, light to moderate rainfall or snowfall is likely at isolated places in Jammu, Kashmir-Ladakh-Gilgit-Baltistan-Muzaffarabad and Himachal Pradesh during next three days, and in Uttarakhand on December 16-17, and isolated light rainfall is likely in northern parts of Punjab, Haryana and West Uttar Pradesh on December 16.“We are expecting light and scattered rainfall over parts of northwest India on December 16 and 17. Temperatures are likely to drop after December 17. As of today dense fog is expected only over Punjab but we are monitoring fog development over Delhi also,” said RK Jenamani, senior scientist at the national weather forecasting centre.A cold wave occurs in the plains when the minimum temperature is 10 degrees Celsius or below and/or is 4.5 notches lesser than the season’s normal for two consecutive days. Cold wave is also declared when the minimum temperature is less than 4 degree Celsius in the plains. According to IMD, light to moderate rainfall at isolated or scattered places is very likely in Tamilnadu-Puducherry-Karaikal, Andaman & Nicobar Islands, and isolated rainfall is likely in Kerala-Mahe during next five days. Dry weather is very likely over remaining parts of the country over this period, and the minimum temperature in northwest and central India is likely to fall by 2-3 degrees in the coming days, it said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/cold-wave-to-hit-north-in-next-two-days-says-imd-101639593398016.html
16-12-2021||India||Man from Nigeria who arrived in Chennai is TN’s first Omicron patient||Tamil Nadu’s first patient who tested positive for the Omicron variant is a 47-year-old man, who has travelled from Nigeria via Doha to Chennai. “He was double vaccinated and he is stable,” health minister M Subramanian told the media.Seven of the patient’s family members, including a 16-year-old and one co-passenger who travelled with him from Doha have all tested positive for Covid-19. Their samples were sent for genome testing and results are awaited. “All eight of them have shown S Gene drop. All of them have a mild infection,” Subramanian said. The co-passenger is a resident of Chennai. They are being treated at Chennai’s King Institute. “There is an apprehension that all eight of them could have Omicron,” said.Tamil Nadu has made elaborate arrangements for surveillance of the Omicron variant. On November 29, the state decided to use Thermo Fischer TaqPath Assay at 12 RT-PCR government labs to detect the S gene drop, which is a marker of probable Omicron infection as per the recommendations of the WHO. The four international airports in Tamil Nadu are conducting RT-PCR tests for passengers from high-risk countries on arrival. They cannot leave the airport until the results are released so airports have been asked to make arrangements for the comfort of passengers. If they are positive, they will be sent to government hospitals and if they test negative, they have to quarantine at home for a week and repeat the RT-PCR test on the eighth day. The samples will be sent to the National Institute of Virology in Pune for genome sequencing.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/man-from-nigeria-who-arrived-in-chennai-is-tn-s-first-omicron-patient-101639593217941.html
16-12-2021||India||MoS Ajay Mishra loses temper over question on jailed son, calls journalist thief||Union minister of state for home Ajay Mishra ‘Teni’ on Wednesday allegedly lashed out at journalists when asked about the addition of stringent charges against his son Ashish Mishra, who is accused of mowing down farmers in Lakhimpur Kheri two months ago.A video clip of the alleged incident purportedly showed the minister losing his cool when asked by a local journalist about the addition of “attempt to murder” charge against Ashish Mishra on Tuesday. In the minute-long clip, which was widely circulated on social media, the minister is heard shouting at the journalist to stop recording him.“Don’t ask questions like a fool. Have you lost your mental balance (’Dimag kharab hai kya’)?” he was heard as purportedly saying in Hindi. “What do you want to know? You turned an innocent person into an accused. Aren’t you ashamed?” He was also heard calling the journalist “chor”, or thief, and angrily asking the reporter to switch off his mobile phone.The minister was in Lakhimpur Kheri on Wednesday to inaugurate an oxygen plant at a child care centre. He visited his son in jail on Tuesday. He wasn’t available for comment. HT couldn’t independently verify the authenticity of the video clip.The video clip stirred a political row. “The video showcases desperation of both the Union minister as well as the party which is shielding him,” UP Congress spokesperson Zishan Haider said. A delegation of local journalists from print and electronic media called on district magistrate Mahendra Bahadur Singh and handed over a memorandum to be forwarded to the President of India. In their memorandum, they demanded action against the minister and sought the safety of journalists.“I can’t comment because I haven’t seen it. But as far as the case goes, the investigating agencies are on it,” UP BJP spokesman Harish Srivastava said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/ajay-kumar-mishra-loses-temper-over-question-on-jailed-son-calls-journalist-thief-101639593099378.html
16-12-2021||India||1971 was Indira Gandhi’s finest year, says Sonia Gandhi||Addressing the closing ceremony of celebrations of Bangladesh Liberation War of 1971, Congress president Sonia Gandhi said that late Prime Minister Indira Gandhi, who played a pivotal role in the war, would have wanted the party to celebrate “not in a boastful spirit or in a spirit of self-glorification, but in a spirit of reflection and resolve”, an apparent jibe at the Centre.Gandhi described 1971 as Indira’s “finest year” and urged the party to reaffirm “our steadfast commitment to the values she cherished, and the causes she fought for – and ultimately sacrificed her life for.”Gandhi lauded the armed forces, the people of Bangladesh and said, “It was this extraordinary convergence of a well-planned and perfectly-executed political, diplomatic and military strategy that gave 1971- a distinctive place in the history of the sub-continent. It was a history that reshaped geography as well.”In her speech, she described how Indira Gandhi mobilized international support, “remained supremely composed and confident drawing upon her immense reserve of inner strength” and reached out to all party leaders.In her speech, Sonia also mentioned the then patchy relationship between the US and India and said, “Indira ensured that the USSR was with India. She travelled tirelessly to Western capitals. She sensitized the entire world community to the cause of the people of Bangladesh with personal interviews, meetings and appeals. And how can we ever forget the manner in which she stood up with the greatest fortitude to the crass insensitivity and crude bullying of the then President of the United States and some of his advisers and did India proud.”The Congress president also described her late mother-in-law as “an inspiration to crores of Indians for her boldness and for her resilience” and narrated how Indira “continues to evoke admiration for her fierce determination to make India self-reliant, especially in agriculture, nuclear energy and space technology, for her commitment to the cause of ecological protection, and for her sensitivity to the concerns of far-flung areas of our country and for its disadvantaged sections.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/1971-was-indira-gandhi-s-finest-year-says-sonia-101639593097745.html
16-12-2021||India||Bilateral cooperation with Bangladesh focus of President Kovind’s talks||Measures to bolster cooperation in areas ranging from green technology to connectivity, enhanced border management and the status of Bangladesh’s Hindu minority figured in President Ram Nath Kovind’s discussions with the Bangladeshi leadership on Wednesday. Kovind is on a three-day visit to Bangladesh at the invitation of his counterpart Abdul Hamid to represent India at celebrations marking the neighbouring country’s 50th Victory Day on Thursday. This is also his first foreign visit since the start of the Covid-19 pandemic. Kovind met Hamid, Prime Minister Sheikh Hasina and foreign minister AK Abdul Momen hours after arriving in Dhaka. The two countries have achieved an “incredible amount of synergies” in areas such as connectivity and joint manufacturing and their close cooperation has helped resolve “intractable issues in the most amicable manner”, foreign secretary Harsh Shringla told a media briefing in Dhaka while talking about the president’s interactions with the Bangladeshi leadership. India and Bangladesh are now looking at ways to step up cooperation in new areas such as green technologies, renewables, and IT and digital platforms that can enhance employment for the youth, he said. “We are two countries that mutually reinforce each other...and that message was there,” he added. Responding to a question on whether the status of Bangladesh’s Hindu community and security concerns related to the border had figured in the meetings, Shringla indicated that both issues had been discussed. Without directly referring to the Hindu minority, Shringla said he couldn’t go into details because of the confidentiality attached to the meetings. “Obviously, those discussions did include issues that are important to both countries and it included questions that are topical for both countries. Needless to say, we are on the same page on most of these issues. “We do appreciate that certain issues are internal matters for Bangladesh but they are important for both countries, the handling of these issues has been, in many senses, very satisfactory. We do believe that whatever actions are being taken are those in the best interests of...both our countries,” he added. In October, India had expressed concern after Durga Puja pandals and temples at several places in Bangladesh were vandalised by mobs following posts on social media about the alleged desecration of the Quran at a pandal. Bangladeshi authorities acted swiftly by cracking down on those responsible for the violence. Shringla said the two sides had discussed the border issue briefly and more talks would be held when the head of India’s Border Security Force visits Dhaka on December 19. Both sides will work out the “best measures” to tackle any existing issues, he added. Bangladesh has expressed concern at the killing of some of its citizens in incidents of firing by Indian border guards, and the issue has figured in several meetings between the two sides in recent years. Shringla said economic cooperation had grown even amid the Covid-19 pandemic, with two-way trade increasing by 14% increase even as Bangladesh’s exports crossed the $1-billion mark. The two sides are discussing a comprehensive economic partnership agreement (CEPA), which needs to be finalised as quickly as possible to continue preferential access for goods he said. The protocol for duty-free access for Bangladeshi products under the South Asian Free Trade Area (SAFTA) regime will no longer be in place after the country’s graduating from least developed country (LDC) status and there is a need for an alternative framework under a CEPA, he said. One-third of India’s total lines of credit has gone to Bangladesh, which has received some $10 billion under highly concessional terms, and the two sides are working on another package of assistance. The Indo-Bangladesh Friendship Pipeline, which will transport high-speed diesel from the Numaligarh refinery in Assam to Parbatipur in Bangladesh, is progressing well will be inaugurated next year. India’s new cross-border power trade policy allows the country to be used as a transit point for the exchange of power between its neighbours, and there are no regulatory issues that will come in the way of Bangladesh’s efforts to purchase power from Nepal or Bhutan, Shringla said. Several defence items have also been identified and are being fast-tracked under a $500-million line of credit extended to Bangladesh in the defence sector. “We will see the exports of certain defence items from India coming to Bangladesh,” Shringla said, adding India is keen on enhancing cooperation in areas such as training, military exchanges and joint manufacturing in defence. 
16-12-2021||India||Uncanny link between deaths of two heroes||An uncanny parallel between the passing away of Group Captain Varun Singh and Lance Naik Hanumanthappa Koppad, who was killed along with nine others on the Siachen glacier five years ago, emerged on Wednesday. Their brave fight against death lasted around a week as the country prayed for a miracle on both occasions. Both were sole survivors. Both were in their 30s. And both their families were hoping against hope that they would defeat death. Both will be remembered. Koppad survived six days buried under an avalanche in Siachen in February 2016 before he died at the Army Hospital (Research and Referral) in Delhi. Singh passed away on Wednesday at the Air Force Command Hospital in Bengaluru after a weeklong brave fight against death. Koppad was among 10 soldiers who were swept away by an ice wall on February 3, 2016, while guarding the Sonam post located at 20,500 feet. The 33-year-old was from 19 Madras. Prime Minister Narendra Modi led the nation in paying homage to both Koppad and Singh. “He leaves us sad and devastated. RIP Lance Naik Hanumanthappa. The soldier in you remains immortal. Proud that martyrs like you served India,” Modi then said in a tweet. Group Captain Singh was the only man to have survived the December 8 Mi-17V5 chopper crash that killed 13 people, including the chief of defence staff (CDS) General Bipin Rawat. He was 39. “Group Captain Varun Singh served the nation with pride, valour and utmost professionalism. I am extremely anguished by his passing away. His rich service to the nation will never be forgotten. Condolences to his family and friends. Om Shanti,” the PM wrote on Twitter on Wednesday. The chopper crash sent shock waves through the Indian military establishment, has been dubbed a devastating setback for the ongoing military reforms and raised questions about succession in the armed forces.
16-12-2021||India||Average student to ace pilot: Group Captain who broke all barriers||Group Captain Varun Singh, fondly called Vroom, was mediocre in class, lacked self-confidence in school, and never excelled in sports and extracurricular activities. Singh later became one of the Indian Air Force’s finest test pilots, he was shortlisted for the country’s first crewed spaceflight, won a Shaurya Chakra, and was a top-notch flying instructor. He was clearly a late bloomer. Singh grew up loving all things aviation but discovered that his life’s true passion was flying only after landing up at the Air Force Academy near Hyderabad in 2003, three years after undergoing gruelling military training at the National Defence Academy. He was commissioned as a fighter pilot in 2004. There was no looking back after that for Singh, who was from a tri-service family --- his father, Colonel KP Singh, retired from the Corps of Army Air Defence, his brother, Commander Tanuj Singh, is in the Indian Navy, and his uncle, Colonel RP Singh, was from 5 Rajput. “In IAF, Varun excelled in whatever he did. I am not exaggerating when I say he had the Midas touch. He was a down-to-earth man and a hell of a fighter pilot. It’s hard to believe he’s gone,” said an IAF pilot who grew up with the officer. Singh was on the first list of 12 candidates shortlisted in 2019 for India’s first crewed spaceflight, Gaganyaan. He could not make it to the final list due to a medical requirement. He encountered a rare, life-threatening emergency aboard his Tejas light combat aircraft in October 2020, but his lightning reflexes and flying skills averted a crash. Just four months ago, on August 15, Singh was awarded Shaurya Chakra, India’s third-highest peacetime gallantry medal, for exceptional courage and remarkable presence of mind in handling the unprecedented emergency and safely landing the plane. Earlier in his career, he volunteered for the prestigious experimental test pilot course and came out on top after a rigourous four-tier selection process that eliminates even the best of pilots. Only seven of the 59 fighter aces made the final cut. At the time of his untimely demise, he was holding the coveted post of directing staff (air) at the Defence Services Staff College in Wellington. “Varun was a fighter pilot with the heart of a fighter. He fought death for a week. He was valiant in life and death,” said another IAF officer. Among the tributes that poured in, the one from the Supreme Commander of India’s armed forces aptly summed up his last days. “Sad to learn that Group Captain Varun Singh breathed his last after putting up a valiant fight for life. Though badly injured in the chopper crash, he displayed the soldierly spirit of valour and indomitable courage. The nation is grateful to him. My condolences to his family,” President Ram Nath Kovind wrote on Twitter. Perhaps nothing reveals more about Varun’s personality and character than a warm letter he wrote to his school principal from his office desk at Wellington on September 18, 2021, a month after being awarded Shaurya Chakra. The four-page letter, which went viral after the December 8 Mi-17V5 crash, was replete with gratitude and inspiration. It was in praise of his teachers who guided him to achieve greater heights. “The honour I have been bestowed is the result of my grooming over the years starting from school. I still hold my teachers in the highest esteem and thank them for where I am in my life and career,” wrote Singh, who finished schooling from Army Public School in Chandimandir in 2000. His message to the students struck a chord. “Not everyone will excel at school and not everyone will be able to score in the 90s. If you do, it’s an amazing achievement and must be applauded. However, if you don’t, do not think you are meant to be mediocre…Find your calling, it could be art, music, graphic design, literature etc,” he wrote. The words in that letter may now inspire them to don the fighter overalls. Like their old boy, Group Captain Varun Singh.
16-12-2021||India||Govt working fast on new CDS appointment to keep reforms on track||The government is working fast on appointing a new chief of defence staff (CDS) after the untimely demise of General Bipin Rawat in a Mi-17V5 chopper crash last week to ensure that the ongoing military reforms are not slowed down, people familiar with the matter said on Wednesday.The first indication of this priority came from defence minister Rajnath Singh on Tuesday.The minister said integration of the armed forces to enhance their effectiveness and reshape the conduct of future operations would progress seamlessly, and achieving the target of jointness will be a top priority for the government.Leadership vacuum is never good, said one of the officials cited above.Rawat, who was killed in the crash along with 13 others, was spearheading the theaterisation drive to best utilise the military’s resources for future wars. Singh’s comments indicated that the current vacuum created by Rawat’s passing will not hit India’s theaterisation plans.Such appointments should never be left vacant as ambiguity is the biggest enemy of the governing mechanism in any set up, said military affairs expert Lieutenant General DB Shekatkar (retd), who headed a committee that presented its report on enhancing the military’s combat potential to the government in 2016.“I was not only hoping but reasonably confident that the government would immediately appoint an officiating CDS to steer the ongoing reforms and look into emerging security challenges,” he said.According to a key recommendation made by the 11-member Shekatkar panel, the government should choose the CDS from among the three service chiefs.The defence minister said the process of “integration and modernisation of tri-services” was initiated with the creation of the post of CDS and the department of military affairs (DMA), and it will be carried forward to achieve the goals as early as possible.Rawat took over as CDS on December 31, 2019, after serving as army chief for a full three-year term. As CDS, he wore multiple hats --- he was the permanent chairman of the chiefs of staff committee (COSC), headed DMA, and was the single-point military adviser to the defence minister.All eyes are now on who will be appointed as Rawat’s successor at a time when the theaterisation plan is at a critical juncture and needs a man with matching vision to carry it forward.Army chief General Manoj Mukund Naravane became the senior-most military officer in the country after Rawat’s demise. Indian Air Force chief Air Chief Marshal Vivek Ram Chaudhari and navy chief Admiral R Hari Kumar are both around two years junior to him.There is a strong possibility of Naravane being named as the new CDS if the government follows the seniority principle, as previously reported. Army vice chief Lieutenant General CP Mohanty and Northern Army commander Lieutenant General YK Joshi, who are both course mates, are the senior-most officers in the army after Naravane.Naravane is due for retirement next April but that may not happen in the changed circumstances. Many in the security establishment believe that the first two or three CDS appointments should be from the army as the security challenges the country faces are along the borders with China and Pakistan.However, making top appointments is the government’s prerogative. The possibility of deep selection cannot be ruled out as was done when Rawat was appointed army chief almost five years back. He superseded two top generals — Lieutenant Generals Praveen Bakshi and PM Hariz.The Indian Air Force has already begun a probe into the CDS chopper crash, and plans to complete it swiftly. Air Marshal Manavendra Singh, who is the Air Officer Commanding-in-Chief of the IAF’s Bengaluru-based Training Command, is heading the tri-service probe. He has defied death multiple times in his 39-year long military career, including once during one of the gravest emergencies in IAF history involving a Russian-origin Mi-17V5 helicopter.At this point, it is not clear what went wrong with the helicopter in the final moments of the crash though the weather in the area where it went down did not have good visibility.Search crews last week recovered the helicopter’s black box that could give vital clues about what went wrong.
16-12-2021||India||‘High time’: Gujarat high court to review law that says marital rape isn’t crime||The Gujarat high court on Wednesday agreed to consider the constitutional validity of the exception accorded to marital rape in the Indian Penal Code (IPC) and issued notices to the Union and state governments on a public interest litigation challenging the controversial provision.Exception 2 to Section 375 (rape) of IPC says that sexual intercourse or sexual acts by a man with his wife is not “rape”.“It is high time that a writ court undertakes the exercise of considering, whether the exception-2 to Section 375 of the IPC could be termed as manifestly arbitrary and makes a woman’s fundamental right to sexual autonomy subject to the whims of her husband,” observed a division bench of justices JB Pardiwala and Niral R Mehta.The bench issued notice to attorney general KK Venugopal, the state of Gujarat and additional solicitor general Devang Vyas. “Since the constitutional validity of exception 2 to Section 375 of the IPC has been questioned, let notice be issued to the learned attorney general of India through the secretary, ministry of law and justice, New Delhi,” the bench said. The matter was posted for hearing on January 19, 2022.The order was passed on a PIL filed by Jaideep Bhanushankar Verma, arguing the provision was arbitrary, unreasonable, unconstitutional, violative of Articles 14 (equality before law), 15 (non-discrimination), 19 (freedom of speech and expression) and 21 (protection of life and liberty) of the Constitution, inherent human rights and constitutional morality||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/high-time-gujarat-high-court-to-review-law-that-says-marital-rape-isn-t-crime-101639584756183.html
16-12-2021||India||Malini Parthasarathy among Columbia Journalism School’s alumni award winners||Malini Parthasarathy, who is the chairperson of The Hindu Group Publishing, is among four veteran journalists who have been named by US-based Columbia Journalism School as the 2022 alumni award winners.The other winners include Eric Marcus, founder and host of the “Making Gay History” podcast, Stuart Schear, vice-president for Communications and Marketing at American Jewish World Service, and Thomas Maier, investigative journalist at Newsday and author of several books on US history.Parthasarathy, who is also the director for editorial strategy at The Hindu, has been a prominent political journalist for more than 30 years, writing stories and editorials on key issues in Indian politics. She spearheads The Hindu Group, which publishes a number of dailies and magazines.She has served as the editor and executive editor of The Hindu newspaper in the past.Wendy Lu, editor, reporter and producer at HuffPost and contributing writer at The New York Times, and Mukhtar Ibrahim, editor and executive director of Sahan Journal, jointly bagged the First Decade Award.The 2022 awards will be presented in April at Low Memorial Library during the journalism school’s alumni weekend event in New York City.“The extraordinary contributions of these alumni cross an array of geographic, historical and cultural landscapes. They have enriched this craft with their leadership and helped forge a path for the future of our industry,” said Dean Steve Coll.The 2022 winners were selected by a panel of jurors comprising previous Alumni Award winners and a representative of the alumni board.In the announcement on its website, Columbia Journalism School wrote, “Each of the winners has demonstrated the qualities valued at the J-School: curiosity, persistence, creativity and adherence to the truth.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/malini-parthasarathy-among-columbia-journalism-school-s-alumni-award-winners-101639545079446.html
