17-12-2021||India||SPPU, PMC announce Clean technology challenge for startups||PUNE The Savitribai Phule Pune University (SPPU) and the Pune Municipal Corporation (PMC) have jointly organised a competition called the ‘Clean Technology Challenge’. Prizes range from ₹10,000 to ₹5 lakh. Swachh, or clean technology is a part of the ‘Swachh Survey 2022’ under Swachh Bharat Abhiyan. The competition is organised to find solutions to social issues like waste management, plastic waste, and wastewater planning. The winners of this competition will have the opportunity to participate in a state and national competition.PMC deputy commissioner Ajit Deshmukh said, “The challenge is based on four main concepts: Social Inclusion, Zero Dump, Plastic Waste Management and Transparency. The national winners will be awarded a prize of ₹5 lakh for first place, ₹2.5 lakh for the second place, ₹1.5 lakh for the third place, ₹1 lakh for the fourth place and ₹75,000 for the fifth place.”SPPU vice-chancellor Prof Nitin Karmalkar said, “Through the university we are working in the fields of Automotive Automation, Water and Waste Management, Agriculture, Healthcare, andMaterial Science. These areas will be further expanded while working with the PMC. Such competitions will definitely help in finding socially useful answers. We are inculcating a startup culture in college students through the ‘Innovation to Enterprises’ competition. Working with the PMC has given everyone the opportunity to work on real social issues. New startups will emerge from this merger.”‘Clean Technology Challenge’ Who can participate?Open to all. ( Citizens, educational Institutions, startups, social institutions, civic cooperatives).How to participate? Interested people have to present their ideas in slides or 5-minute videosLast date to applyDecember 24, 2021Where to apply?Link - https://forms.gle/8umeAZXdRsCBzRvz5||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/sppu-pmc-announce-clean-technology-challenge-for-startups-101639765561904.html
17-12-2021||India||Calcutta high court rejects BJP’s plea for central forces during Kolkata civic polls||The Bharatiya Janata Party’s (BJP) petition seeking deployment of central armed police force (CAPF) during the Kolkata Municipal Corporation (KMC) election on December 19 was rejected by the Calcutta high court division bench of chief justice Prakash Shrivastava and justice Rajarshi Bhardwaj on Friday night. Lawyers representing the BJP -- which moved the division bench on Thursday hours after the single bench of justice Rajasekhar Mantha dismissed the same petition -- told the court that BJP candidates and voters may face violence on Sunday and cited the alleged killings after the March-April assembly polls as the ground for such apprehension. Hours after hearing all the parties, the division bench passed its order on Friday night. “So far, no instance of violence has been pointed out nor along with the writ petition, any such material has been enclosed which furnishes a ground for deployment of the central paramilitary forces in the forthcoming Kolkata Municipal Corporation elections. Therefore, at this stage, we do not find sufficient material to accept the prayer,” the order said. “However, we take note of the submission of the learned Additional Solicitor General that within six hours, the central paramilitary forces can be sent to avoid any untoward incident. Hence, we direct the (state) election commission to take an appropriate decision having due regard to the ground situation in consultation with the state authorities for deployment of central paramilitary forces, in case, if the need so arises, to ensure free and fearless elections,” the order added. Lawyers representing the BJP said they will move the Supreme Court on Saturday, challenging the order. BJP state president Sukanta Majumdar had moved the Supreme Court with the same petition last week. On Monday, the Supreme Court refused to hear it and asked the BJP to approach the Calcutta high court. The division bench, however, did not close the matter and said it will hear all parties again on December 23 and by then the state government and the state election commission (SEC) have to file their reports. During the hearing, the SEC and the state government told the division bench that adequate police arrangements have been made. Reacting to this, the chief justice said, “We have kept it (the matter) pending to see if what has been stated in this court is being complied with.” When the bench was informed during the day that 22,621 police personnel would be deployed in the city, the chief justice inquired whether the number was adequate. The SEC submitted that additional police personnel can be deployed if the court asks for it. Appearing for the central government, Additional Solicitor General Y J Dastoor told the bench that the Centre can deploy CAPF in Kolkata by Sunday morning and the forces will be at the disposal of the SEC. Observing that the SEC was depending entirely on a Kolkata Police report on deployment of policemen on Sunday, the order said: “Having examined the same, we find that the state authorities and the election commission should reconsider the same. Having regard to the fact that the deployment is to be done not only for preventing violence but for also building confidence in the voters in respect of their safety, we are of the opinion that deployment in polling booth should be strengthened.” Lawyer Loknath Chatterjee, who appeared for the BJP, said the court was reminded of the murder of a BJP worker in Kolkata on May 2, the day the assembly poll results were announced. The case is being investigated by the Central Bureau of Investigation. In its order, the division bench said: “It cannot be disputed that free and fair election is the backbone of democracy. Forthcoming Kolkata Municipal Corporation election must be held in a transparent manner in such an atmosphere where voters can vote without fear. Though no concrete incident of violence in reference to coming election has been pointed out till now but the appellants have raised an important issue for taking up adequate measures so that voters come out fearlessly to vote because, on account of the past incidents of post-poll violence after general elections, they have fear in their mind.” The BJP’s lawyers also cited the Supreme Court order which asked the Tripura government to deploy CAPF during the recent civic body elections. The Trinamool Congress (TMC) had moved the apex court in the run-up to these elections saying its candidates were facing threats. Referring to this, the division bench said that the apex court order was passed under different circumstances and it directed the DGP and IGP (law and order, Tripura) to hold a meeting with the state election commission for assessing the requirement of CAPF. “Hence, a decision in this regard is required to be taken by the concerned state authorities and the state election commission, keeping in view the ground situation,” the bench said. Ratnanko Banerjee, a senior lawyer representing the SEC, told the court that the poll watchdog has been monitoring the situation in Kolkata and has held several meetings with the administration and the city police to ensure free and fair elections. When the SEC told the division bench that 22,621 police personnel will be deployed, the chief justice asked, “Have you fixed responsibility on any officer to ensure that these police forces will be present?” The SEC told the court that the commissioner of Kolkata Police and the director general of the state police will be responsible for the arrangements and security cameras have been installed in all polling booths following an order the court earlier passed. Appearing for the state government, advocate general S N Mookherjee said adequate security arrangements have been made for the four BJP candidates on whose complaints the petition is based. He also said no incident of violence has been recorded in Kolkata so far. Addressing a rally before the campaign came to an end at 5 pm, TMC national general secretary Abhishek Banerjee took a swipe at the BJP for filing the petition. “Did deployment of CAPF during the assembly polls make any difference? We swept the elections. Let them bring the CAPF on Sunday. We will win all seats in Kokata. I have information that other parties may create trouble in a few civic wards. We will be vigilant. The troublemakers will be handed over to the police. If I find even one TMC worker intimidating voters he will be expelled,” Banerjee said at a rally in Kalighat. Addressing a BJP rally, leader of the opposition in the state assembly, Suvendu Adhikari, said, “If there is trouble in even one polling booth in Kolkata, our workers in the districts will hit the streets and start a movement.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/calcutta-high-court-rejects-bjp-s-plea-for-central-forces-during-kolkata-civic-polls-101639764720157.html
17-12-2021||India||Cold wave to hit NW India tomorrow; ground frost conditions in Punjab, Rajasthan: IMD||The India Meteorological Department (IMD) said in its latest bulletin several parts of northwest India, including Punjab, Haryana and Rajasthan, among others, must brace for ground frost conditions from Saturday, December 18.Apart from this, dense to very dense fog along with cold wave conditions have also been forecast for states and Union territories (UTs) in the northwest part of India.On Thursday, the Met department said cold wave conditions, which is very typical during the winter season in northwest and central India, are expected to set in over Haryana, Punjab, Chandigarh and north Rajasthan between December 18 and 20.It added that light to moderate rainfall or snow is likely over the western Himalayan region between December 17 and 19.The upper areas of Kashmir on Thursday received light snowfall as a cold wave passed through various regions of the valley, with Srinagar recording minus 3.8 degrees Celsius at night. Gulmarg's temperature dipped even further to minus 8.6 degrees Celsius.Meanwhile, Delhi on Thursday recorded the season's lowest maximum temperature with 19.8 degrees Celsius - three degrees below normal, while the minimum temperature increased marginally to settle at 8.7 degrees Celsius.According to the latest IMD bulletin, there will be a gradual drop in minimum temperatures by 2-3 degrees Celsius in most parts of northwest India and Maharashtra, and by 3-5 degrees Celsius over a majority part of central India over the next four days.Cold wave conditionsThe IMD predicted that over the next four days (till December 21), cold wave conditions will hit Jammu and Kashmir, Ladakh, Himachal Pradesh, Uttarakhand, Punjab, Haryana and Chandigarh.The same weather alert has been issued for north Rajasthan over the next five days, for Gujarat over the next three days, and over west Uttar Pradesh between December 19 and 21.Severe cold wave conditionsBesides the cold wave conditions, north Rajasthan is expected to experience severe cold wave conditions during the next three days. The same weather alert has been issued for Punjab, Haryana and Chandigarh on December 19 and 20, according to the IMD bulletin.Fog conditionsIsolated pockets of Punjab are very likely to experience dense to very dense fog in the morning hours between December 18 and 20, while similar conditions are expected in Haryana and Chandigarh on December 18 and 19, and over north Rajasthan on December 18.Northeastern states of Meghalaya, Manipur, Mizoram, Nagaland, Tripura and Assam have been forecasted to experience dense fog on December 18 and 19.Ground frost conditionsPunjab, Haryana, Chandigarh and north Rajasthan will also experience ground frost conditions in their isolated pockets during the morning hours over the next three days, the IMD bulletin said.Rainfall alertAccording to IMD, a low-pressure area lies over the central parts of southeast Bay of Bengal and adjoining the equatorial Indian ocean with an associated cyclonic circulation. The low-pressure area is likely to move east-northeastwards and become more “marked” in the next 48 hours or by December 19.Owing to this condition, light to moderate rainfall at a few or multiple regions of the Andaman and Nicobar Islands have been forecast between December 18 and 20. On December 19 and 20, Nicobar Islands is expected to experience heavy rainfall as well, the IMD bulletin said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/cold-wave-to-hit-nw-india-tomorrow-ground-frost-conditions-in-punjab-rajasthan-101639760239832.html
17-12-2021||India||Independent MLA Rohan Khaunte joins BJP, says has buried animosity with Sawant||Independent legislator Rohan Khaunte on Friday joined the Bharatiya Janata Party amid much fanfare promising to take forward his vision for Goa but this time round by aligning with a political party. Khaunte, a two-time independent legislator, had pledged support to the Manohar Parrikar led BJP government that was formed after the 2017 assembly polls and was made a minister. However, he was dropped soon after Pramod Sawant took charge. As a consequence, Khaunte turned into one of the most vocal and often acerbic critic of the Sawant-led government personally targeting the chief minister and taunting him with nicknames like ‘Pappu’ or even accusing his government of being a “Sawantwadi Sarkar” a dig at Sawant’s ancestral roots in a town in Maharashtra. “There are differences but these are differences about the issues afflicting the state and about how to take the state forward. It is never about personal enmity?” Khaunte told the gathering who had come to witness his induction. Khaunte’s induction has caused dissension within the BJP as the local unit of the party has vowed to work against him while questioning the party’s decision to induct someone who has been deeply against the BJP.“You should ask me about what I am going to do and not what I have done,” was Khaunte’s retort when pressed to explain his sudden change of heart and decision of joining the BJP. The BJP, on the other hand has also lost an MLA to the AAP with Cortalim MLA Alina Saldanha resigning as an MLA before joining the AAP in the presence of Delhi Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal in Delhi. “Recent happenings in the state had forced me to take a stand that was in opposition to the government,” Saldanha said explaining how she was opposed to the contentious three linear projects, particularly the railway track doubling that she said would come at the cost of the residents in her constituency. “I felt it was my duty to stand by the people. I will do that till my last breath. I was feeling suffocated. The party also felt that I was an obstruction to their goal which was anti-people,” Saldanha said. A total of five MLAs have resigned in recent weeks with three having joined the BJP, Saldanha joining the AAP and Faleiro joining the Trinamool Congress. A sixth -- Churchill Alemao of the NCP has joined the TMC without resigning as an MLA. The Congress has meanwhile said it has shut its doors to those who had ditched the party and joined the BJP.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/independent-mla-rohan-khaunte-joins-bjp-says-has-buried-animosity-with-sawant-101639762319278.html
17-12-2021||India||‘Just ridiculous’: Asaduddin Owaisi slams Centre over proposal on legal age of marriage||All India Majlis-e-Ittehadul Muslimeen (AIMIM) president Asaduddin Owaisi blasted Prime Minister Narendra Modi-led government over its proposal to raise the minimum legal age of marriage for women. In a series of tweets, Owaisi said that the decision to increase the age of marriage for women to 21 is “typical paternalism that we have come to expect” from the central government. He opined that both men and women should be allowed to get legally married at 18, the age at which they can choose lawmakers and are treated as adults by law for all other purposes.“They can consent to sexual relationships and live-in partnerships but cannot choose their life partners? Just ridiculous,” Owaisi tweeted.The Lok Sabha MP from Hyderabad argued that education and economic prospects impact the age of marriage than the legality around it. Highlighting the high number of child marriages but negligible criminal cases against it, Owaisi said social reform and government initiatives in education and human development are critical to preventing child marriages.“If Modi was sincere, he would have focused on increasing economic opportunities for women. Yet India is the only country where women’s participation in workforce is dwindling,” he wrote on Twitter. Referring to a government report on India’s female labour participation, he noted, “It fell to 16% in 2020 from 26% in 2005.”Govt may table bill to raise women’s marriage age to 21Owaisi stressed the need to improve the educational outcomes of women to ensure autonomous decision-making. It’s essential to improve their educational outcomes to ensure autonomous decision-making. What has the govt done to improve education for girls? 79% of ₹446.72 Beti Bachao Beti Padhao budget was spent on adverts. You want us to believe that this govt has sincere intentions? 7/nHe said the marriage age in many US states is as low as 14 and in the UK and Canada it is 16, adding that these nations improved the human development of young people so that they can make “informed decisions rather than fixing arbitrary age restrictions.”“In contrast, Modi govt acts like a Mohalla Uncle. Deciding what we eat, who/when we marry, what God we worship, etc,” Owaisi wrote.“It’s time to stop thinking of young people as children in perpetuity. They should be allowed the space to think & decide for themselves,” he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/if-modi-was-sincere-owaisi-slams-centre-for-acting-like-mohalla-uncle-over-legal-age-for-marriage-101639759845010.html
17-12-2021||India||Why legal experts are concerned about the Biological Diversity Amendment Bill 2021||NEW DELHI: The Biological Diversity Amendment Bill 2021, introduced in the Lok Sabha on Thursday, exempts Ayush practitioners from the ambit of the Biological Diversity Act, 2002, and facilitates access to biological resources and traditional knowledge by the Indian traditional medicine sector. Legal experts have, however, expressed concerns that easing the norms for the sector could be detrimental to ecology and go against the principle of sharing commercial benefits with indigenous communities.Here is a 6-point FAQ on the proposed legislation.What is the Biological Diversity Amendment Bill 2021?The Biological Diversity Act, 2002 was enacted for the conservation of biological diversity and fair, equitable sharing of the monetary benefits from the commercial use of biological resources and traditional knowledge. Now, according to the statement of objectives of Biological Diversity (Amendment) Bill, 2021, it seeks to reduce the pressure on wild medicinal plants by encouraging the cultivation of medicinal plants; exempts Ayush practitioners from intimating biodiversity boards for accessing biological resources or knowledge; facilitates fast-tracking of research, simplify the patent application process, decriminalises certain offences; bring more foreign investments in biological resources, research, patent and commercial utilisation, without compromising the national interest.Why is the Biodiversity Act 2002 being amended?According to the bill, concerns were raised by Ayush medicine, seed, industry and research sectors urging the government to simplify, streamline and reduce the compliance burden to provide for a conducive environment for collaborative research and investments. They also sought to simplify the patent application process, widen the scope of access and benefit-sharing with local communities. In most cases, this is a certain percentage of the sale price.Ayush companies have been seeking relaxation of the benefit-sharing provisions. A case in point is the case relating to Divya Pharmacy founded by Swami Ramdev and Acharya Balkrishna in Uttarakhand. The Uttarakhand Biodiversity Board (UBB) sent a notice to Divya Pharmacy in 2016 stating that the company was in violation of the Biodiversity Act for using biological resources from the state for its ayurvedic formulations, without intimating the board and that it was liable to pay an access and benefit-sharing fee. Challenging the board’s notice, the company filed a writ petition before the Uttarakhand high court in December 2016 challenging the powers of the biodiversity board to determine benefit-sharing by Indian companies. The court in 2018 upheld the powers of the biodiversity board in its judgement.Why are legal experts criticising the bill?The Biological Diversity Amendment Bill 2021 has been introduced without seeking public comments as required under the pre-legislative consultative policy. “The bill has been only introduced. The environment ministry will also publish the bill for public comments and a month’s time will be given to respond,” a senior official of the ministry of environment, forest and climate change said.What are the changes proposed to be introduced by the Biological Diversity Amendment Bill 2021?The bill focuses on regulating who can access biological resources and knowledge and how access will be monitored. Ayush practitioners have been exempted from the ambit of the Act, a huge move because the Ayush industry benefits greatly from biological resources in India. The role of state biodiversity boards has been strengthened and better clarified in the bill. There are also significant changes proposed in the offences section, according to Kanchi Kohli, a legal researcher at the Centre for Policy Research. Violations of the law related to access to biological resources and benefit-sharing with communities, which are currently treated as criminal offences and are non-bailable, have been proposed to be made civil offences.“This bill would have been an important opportunity to reconcile the domestic law with free prior informed consent requirements of the 2010 Nayogya Protocol on ABS. However, this has been a missed opportunity as the proposed amendments continue to marginalise biodiversity management committees (BMCs). Their powers have not been enhanced, and the proposed amendments also allow for state biodiversity boards to represent BMCs to determine terms of benefit sharing,” said Kohli.Under the Biodiversity Act 2002, national and state biodiversity boards are required to consult the biodiversity management committees (constituted by every local body) while taking any decision relating to the use of biological resources.What are the other concerns with the bill?One of the major changes in the new bill is that registered Ayush practitioners who have been practising indigenous medicine can access any biological resource and its associated knowledge for commercial utilisation, without giving prior intimation to the state biodiversity board. “The amendment seems to be done with the sole intention of providing benefit to the Ayush industry. The main focus of the bill is to facilitate trade in biodiversity as opposed to conservation, protection of biodiversity and knowledge of the local communities. The amendments are completely contrary to the aim and objective of the Biological Diversity Act, 2002,” argued Ritwick Dutta, environmental lawyer.Dutta also underlined that the bill has excluded the term “bio-utilisation.” “Bio-utilization is an important element in the Act. Leaving out bio utilization would leave out an array of activities like characterization, inventorisation and bioassay which are undertaken with commercial motive,” added Dutta.The bill also exempts cultivated medicinal plants from the purview of the Act but it is practically impossible to detect which plants are cultivated and which are from the wild. This provision could allow large companies to evade the requirement for prior approval or share the benefit with local communities under the access and benefit-sharing provisions of the Act.What is access and benefit-sharing?Under the Convention of Biological Diversity, and the Nagoya Protocol on Access and Benefit Sharing to which India is a party, it is mandated that benefits derived from the use of biological resources are shared in a fair and equitable manner among the indigenous and local communities. When an Indian or foreign company or individual accesses biological resources such as medicinal plants and associated knowledge, it has to take prior consent from the national biodiversity board. The board can impose a benefit-sharing fee or royalty or impose conditions so that the company shares the monetary benefit from commercial utilisation of these resources with local people who are conserving biodiversity in the region.The December 2018 judgement of Uttarakhand high court in the Divya Pharmacy matter clarifies that the board has a core function of regulation, which also includes asking for benefit sharing and determining the terms and conditions to be imposed on the user/accessor against access said legal researchers, Kanchi Kohli and Shalini Bhutani.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/why-legal-experts-are-concerned-about-the-biological-diversity-amendment-bill-2021-101639759979049.html
17-12-2021||India||Swiss Air Lines to operate direct flights between Zurich and Mumbai from January||From January, India will again be directly connected with Switzerland via air, as Swiss, the European nation’s flag carrier, will launch a flight, connecting the cities of Zurich and Mumbai, under an air bubble agreement signed between the two countries earlier this month.“Swiss International Air Lines will start operating direct flights between Zurich and Mumbai from January 10. Two weekly flights will be operated on the said route from next month,” Germany’s Lufthansa Group, which operates Swiss, informed in a statement on Friday.Also Read | India sent air bubble proposals to 10 more countries: Jyotiraditya ScindiaLufthansa, headquartered in the German city of Cologne, also owns and operates other carriers such as Austrian Airlines, Brussels Airlines, among others.India, meanwhile, has air bubble agreements with 34 countries, including Switzerland, according to the ministry of external affairs (MEA). Under such a travel arrangement, carriers between two nations operate a certain number of flights under Covid-19 related restrictions.Under the air bubble rules, only the following categories of passengers can fly to India from Switzerland: Indian nationals or nationals of Nepal or Bhutan stranded in any country in the European Union/Schengen area, South America or Africa only; Overseas Citizen of India (OCI) and Person of Indian Origin (PIO) cardholders holding passports of any country; any foreign national (from EU/Schengen area, South America or Africa only) with a valid Indian visa; and Seamen from EU/Schengen, South America or Africa only.Regular international passenger services to and from India have been under suspension since March last year, when the first nationwide Covid-19 lockdown kicked in. The suspension was scheduled to be lifted on December 15. However, the detection and spread of the Omicron (B.1.1.529) variant led to a further delay, and, subsequently, extension of the ban till at least January 31.(With PTI inputs)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/swiss-air-lines-to-operate-direct-flights-between-zurich-and-mumbai-from-january-101639759074063.html
17-12-2021||India||Odisha court frees tribal who spent 18 yrs in jail, says extra-judicial confession doesn’t count||Pointing out that an extra-judicial confession was not admissible under the Indian Evidence Act; a sessions court in Odisha has acquitted a 48-year-old tribal man who was in jail for 18 years for murdering a family in Mayurbhanj district of Odisha.District and sessions judge of Mayurbhanj, Pradeep Kumar Pattnaik, acquitted Habil Sindhu of Balarampur village in Mayurbhanj district of murder charges viewing that his confession before a gramrakhi does not inspire any confidence. “The confession of the accused before gramrakhis is extra-judicial which is inadmissible under law in view of Section 25 of the Indian Evidence Act,” the court said after going through the 32 page investigation report of the police and testimonies of 11 eyewitnesses.On January 3, 2003, Sindhu was arrested on charges of beheading three people including a 2-year-old boy in his neighbourhood suspecting them of practising black magic. The headless bodies were found by a river and after initial investigation; Sindhu was arrested and later tried in a fast-track court which sentenced him to life in August 2005 after the prosecution told the court that Sindhu, a Santhali tribal had confessed to his crime before gramrakhis.The same year, Sindhu, appealed against the order of the fast track court before the Orissa High Court. In April this year, the High Court ordered retrial of the case. As the fast track court had been abolished, the case was heard by the sessions judge of Mayurbhanj. Considering the sensitivity of the case, the HC appointed amicus curiae to probe the case.The amicus curiae handed over the investigation reports to the District and Sessions Court. The investigation showed that there was not enough evidence against Sindhu.Sindhu, who did not even get bail after his arrest in 2003, said he is feeling happy. “I have spent more than 18 years in jail. I want to be with my family,” said the tribal man, who has a son and a daughter.Advocate for Sindhu, Asit Otta said the officials investigating the case should be held responsible for the wrongful incarceration of the tribal. “The officials failed to investigate the case fairly and without studying the case they filed the investigation report. The prosecution failed to produce any circumstantial evidence,” Otta said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/odisha-court-frees-tribal-who-spent-18-years-in-jail-says-extra-judicial-confession-doesn-t-count-101639759198970.html
17-12-2021||India||Two more Omicron cases detected in Kerala, state tally climbs to 7||With two more cases detected on Friday, the total number of Omicron-infected in Kerala has risen to seven, the state health ministry said. Two of those infected are a couple who returned from the United Arab Emirates about a week back, it said adding all those who came in direct contact with the infected were quarantined. With more Omicron cases being detected the state was put on high alert and all districts have been asked to prepare isolation wards and stock enough oxygen supply. Samples from localities where Covid-19 clusters were found will also be sent for genetic analysis. In the country, the total number of Omicron-infected patients rose to 101, with Maharashtra reporting the maximum number of cases at 32, followed by Delhi at 22. Struggling with a heavy Covid-19 caseload, Kerala was on high alert after the new variant was detected in the country last month. For more than six months Kerala has been reporting the maximum number of Covid-19 cases in the country and in the death rate also it is on second spot after Maharashtra. The state reported 3,471 new Covid-19 cases on Friday after 54,715 samples tested. It also reported 22 deaths taking the total fatalities to 44,189.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/two-more-omicron-cases-detected-in-kerala-state-tally-climbs-to-7-101639756978713.html
17-12-2021||India||News updates from HT: Akhilesh distances party from MPs remarks on women's legal marriage age, and all the latest news||Here are today’s top news, analysis and opinion. Know all about the latest news and other news updates from Hindustan Times.'Nothing to do with it': Akhilesh Yadav over MPs’ remarks on proposal to raise women’s legal marriage ageSamajwadi Party (SP) chief Akhilesh Yadav on Friday distanced the party from the remarks made by some of its lawmakers over the Centre’s move to raise the legal age of marriage for women. Read more…Sputnik V, with booster of Light, could be over 80% effective against Omicron: RDIFRussia's twin-dose Sputnik V Covid-19 vaccine, and a booster shot of the single-dose Sputnik Light jab, are together expected to have an efficacy of more than 80 per cent against the Omicron (B.1.1.529) variant, the Russian Direct Investment Fund (RDIF) said on Friday, citing a preliminary laboratory study by the Gamaleya Research Institute. Read more…Sameer Wankhede’s prayer for injunction overboard, untenable: TwitterIn its reply to the plea filed by Mumbai zonal director of the Narcotics Control Bureau (NCB) Sameer Wankhede and his wife Kranti Redkar for orders to social media platforms to disallow “scurrilous and defamatory messages” against them from being posted on their respective platforms, Twitter has said under the existing legal regime in India, the attribution of liability of an electronic record (message) is on the originator – the author of the message - and cannot be fastened on the intermediaries like them. Read more…WHO approves emergency use listing for Serum Institute's CovovaxThe World Health Organization (WHO) announced on Friday it has granted Emergency Use Listing (EUL) to Covovax, the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) vaccine developed by the Serum Institute of India (SII) in partnership with the US-based Novavax. Read more…'We may see Virat from 2 years ago, slamming centuries after centuries': Gavaskar predicts batting resurgence for KohliLegendary former India cricketer Sunil Gavaskar feels that removing Virat Kohli as white-ball captain can actually be a good move as far as his batting is concerned. Although Kohli's current numbers aren't concerning, the fact that he is getting dismissed on ducks far too frequently and hasn't scored an international century in over two years has become a topic of debate. Read more…Tom Holland hints at MCU exit after Spider-Man: No Way Home, says 'don't want to be holding back next young person'Tom Holland seems to have hinted that he could be bidding the Spider-Man franchise a farewell soon. His statements come at the heels of his latest Spider-Man movie, Spider-Man: No Way Home. Read more…||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/news-updates-from-ht-akhilesh-distances-party-from-mps-remarks-on-women-s-legal-marriage-age-and-all-the-latest-news-101639752155560.html
17-12-2021||India||India prudent on new FTAs, old pacts hollowed out supply chains: Jaishankar||India is very prudent about new free trade agreements (FTAs) because such pacts signed over the past 25 years affected domestic supply chains and had not provided adequate benefits to Indian businesses, external affairs minister S Jaishankar said on Friday. Economic diplomacy is a major part of the activities of Indian missions abroad, and 300 lines of credit with a total value of more than $30 billion extended to about 70 countries have enhanced India’s image and opened up new opportunities for domestic businesses, he said during a conversation at the annual convention of the Federation of Indian Chambers of Commerce and Industry (FICCI). “When it comes to new FTAs, we are very prudent...we need a lot of analysis of the person with whom you are getting into a relationship. It’s not like everybody is the same,” Jaishankar said, adding he works closely with commerce minister Piyush Goyal and finance minister Nirmala Sitharaman on such issues. India’s priorities for FTAs reflect strategic convergences and domestic business comforts. “I would hope very much that in a few years from now, we will end up with a better set of FTAs,” he said. Jaishankar said India has had “a very tough experience” with FTAs over the past 25 years because it was largely dealing with “non-market actors”. He added, “As a result, we have seen in many cases our domestic supply chains very badly affected. In some sectors, they’ve got completely hollowed out.” Some economies with which India finalised FTAs were very protective of their supply chains and MSMEs, and even competitive Indian products were not selling because of non-tariff barriers. “We’ve got to get real about this...I have some discomfort with the old mantras of globalisation,” he said. “If after 25 years of mounting evidence, if you’re not listening then we are in trouble,” he said. The government listens to the problems of domestic businesses and this led to the push for reviewing FTAs with many partners. Indian embassies have placed trade and business at the forefront, and regularly take up policy and regulatory issues with host governments and speak up for India’s economic interests abroad, Jaishankar said. The 300-odd lines of credit worth more than $30 billion were extended for some 600 projects in 70 countries, and they helped promote projects and Indian products. At the same time, India has provided 80 grants worth around $5 billion to some 12 countries. These are great platforms for Indian companies to promote their products and abilities and such partnerships create jobs and enhance the strength of the country, he said. India also couldn’t have ramped up the production of Covid-19 vaccines without economic diplomacy, which helped open supply chains for ingredients from the US, Jaishankar said. However, he pointed out that the post-pandemic world would be difficult and tougher, and India will need to “look at supply chains in a very different way”. Talking about the situation in Afghanistan, Jaishankar said it had been clear since the second term of US president Barack Obama that American forces would be withdrawn from the war-torn country. “At one level, it’s not a surprise but I would say a lot of the concerns came from how those negotiations [with the Taliban] took place in Doha and how it then unfolded on the ground,” he said. “As a proximate neighbour we are very concerned. After all there is some history there,” he said, adding the world community has reached a basic consensus on helping on humanitarian issues while calling for a more inclusive government and counter-terrorism measures. Jaishankar said the standoff with China on the Line of Actual Control was “largely because they are not following agreements” and acting like a party that has “violated a contract”. 
17-12-2021||India||WHO approves emergency use listing for Serum Institute's Covovax||The World Health Organization (WHO) announced on Friday it has granted Emergency Use Listing (EUL) to Covovax, the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) vaccine developed by the Serum Institute of India (SII) in partnership with the US-based Novavax. Also Read | Serum Institute to launch Covovax jab for kids in 6 months, says Adar Poonawalla“Covovax was assessed under the WHO EUL procedure based on the review of data on quality, safety and efficacy, a risk management plan, programmatic sustainability, and manufacturing site inspections carried out by the Drugs Controller General of India (DCGI). The Technical Advisory Group for Emergency Use Listing has determined that the vaccine meets WHO standards for protection against Covid-19, that the benefit of the vaccine far outweighs any risks, and that it can be used gloally,” the global health body noted in a statement.Also Read | Govt permits export of 50mn doses of Covovax, say officialsReacting to the announcement, Adar Poonawalla, CEO of the Pune-based SII tweeted, “This is yet another milestone in our fight against Covid-19, Covovax is now WHO approved for emergency use, showing excellent safety and efficacy. Thank you all for a great collaboration." This is yet another milestone in our fight against COVID-19, Covovax is now W.H.O. approved for emergency use, showing excellent safety and efficacy. Thank you all for a great collaboration, @Novavax @WHO @GaviSeth @Gavi @gatesfoundation https://t.co/7C8RVZa3Y4Covovax is the third India-related jab to be approved by the WHO, Covishield and Covaxin being the earlier two. The former is the Indian variant of Britain's AstraZeneca jab, and is also manufactured by the Serum Institute, the world's largest vaccine manufacturer. The latter, meanwhile, is India's first indigenous anti-Covid shot, and has been developed by Bharat Biotech International Limited, located in Hyderabad.Also Read | Serum Institute of India gets nod for trials of Covovax in childrenA subunit of the Novavax vaccine, Covovax has a two-dose regimen and is the ninth to receive emergency use approval from the WHO. However, it is yet to be granted emergency use authorisation (EUA) by the DCGI, the top drugs regulator in India.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/who-approves-emergency-use-listing-for-serum-institute-s-covovax-covid-19-jab-101639750687122.html
17-12-2021||India||PM Modi gets Bhutan’s highest civilian award. Here are his other awards||Prime Minister Narendra Modi was on Friday conferred Bhutan’s highest civilian award, 'Order of the Druk Gyalpo' as the neighbouring country celebrated its National Day, adding to the long list of recognitions by countries across the world.PM Modi thanked Bhutan's king after he was accorded the country's highest civilian decoration and said India will always cherish the country as one of its closest friends and neighbours. India will continue to support its development journey in every possible way, he added.Thank you, Lyonchhen @PMBhutan! I am deeply touched by this warm gesture, and express my grateful thanks to His Majesty the King of Bhutan. https://t.co/uVWC4FiZYTLast year, the Prime Minister received the 'Legion of Merit by the US Government' award of the US Armed Forces—given for exceptionally meritorious conduct in the performance of outstanding services and achievements.PM Modi, who is 71 years old, was conferred Russia’s highest civilian honour the 'Order of St. Andrew' award in 2019. In the same year, the United Arab Emirates (UAE) conferred him with its highest civilian honour—‘Order of Zayed Award’.Also watch | High honour for PM Modi as Bhutan confers its highest civilian award 
17-12-2021||India||Green watchdog stalls ₹3,300 cr Rayalaseema lift project for lack of environmental nod||The National Green Tribunal on Friday directed the Andhra Pradesh government to stop all ongoing work of the Rayalaseema Lift Irrigation Scheme (RLIS) being built on the backwaters of the Krishna river on the ground that it does not have environmental clearance from the Centre.A bench of the tribunal including Justice Ramakrishna and Dr K Satyagopal, which reserved its judgement in October, delivered it on Friday.The Rayalaseema lift irrigation scheme, which was conceived by the Y S Jagan Mohan Reddy government in August 2020, aims to provide assured water to 19 lakh acres in four districts of Rayalaseema – Kadapa, Kurnool, Anantapur and Chittoor.The lift scheme, costing ₹3,278 crore, will draw three TMC (thousand million cubic feet) of water per day from Srisailam reservoir near Sangameshwaram and pump it into the Srisailam right main canal (SRMC) that will feed various irrigation canals in the four districts.In its judgement, the tribunal said it was constituting a three-member committee of experts from the ministry of environment and forests at its regional office, Vijayawada, Geological Survey of India and from design and planning or irrigation projects of the Central Water Commission.“This committee will go into the issue of whether the ongoing work taken up by the Andhra Pradesh government for the purpose of preparing a detailed project report were strictly in compliance with the guidelines issued by the CWC and GSI and whether any excess work was carried out causing damage to the environment,” the tribunal said.It said the committee could take appropriate steps against the Andhra Pradesh government, if there are any alleged violations of environmental laws in undertaking the work.The tribunal ordered that till the committee submitted its report and the MOEF disposes of the application for environmental clearance, the state government should not proceed with any work on ground in the name of preparation of detailed project report for the Rayalaseema Lift Irrigation Scheme.In August this year, following a direction from the NGT, a team of officials from the Krishna River Management Board conducted a field study at the project site and reported to the tribunal that there were clear violations of environmental norms in the project work.However, the Andhra Pradesh government submitted an affidavit to the tribunal that the work taken up at the site was not in violation of the norms, but to only prepare a detailed project report. It said no works were taken up for RLIS at the project site after they were stopped in the first week of July, following a stay order from the NGT pending the hearing.
17-12-2021||India||'Nothing to be ashamed of': Nidhi Razdan on her Harvard 'nightmare' of fake job offer||Prominent journalist and ex-NDTV anchor Nidhi Razdan on Friday said there’s nothing to be ashamed of being a victim of crime, a day after the New York Times published a detailed investigation into online scammers targeting several journalists and media personalities in India. In a blog post for NDTV, Nidhi Razdan talked about her Harvard “nightmare” which left her “angry, shocked, disappointed and embarrassed” as she came to know about the truth behind the job offer from the Ivy League university. Razdan said many victims of cybercrime contacted her to share their stories and talk about the fear of being mocked.“I want them to know there is nothing to be ashamed of when you are the victim of a crime. Those who think they are infallible - I wish them luck. Don't kick a person when they are down. It's not easy to admit you are human,” she wrote.According to the NYT report, the first known target was also a woman journalist, Rohini Singh, who received a message on Twitter from a user identifying himself as Tauseef Ahmed. Another woman journalist was targeted soon after but she broke off contact after she got suspicious about the scammer’s UAE phone number, the Times said.A spokeswoman for the ruling Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) was also contacted by the scammers but she checked directly with one of the administrators at Harvard after they pushed her for passport details and other personal information, the Times reported. The report claimed that Harvard did nothing to act on information received from the BJP spokesperson, who shared troves of emails, screenshots of fake Harvard documents with the university.Online scammers target 'prominent' Indian women journalists with promises of jobs at Harvard: ReportThe scammers, now well practised and aware of the loopholes in their plan, took "bolder steps to impersonate Harvard, buying a website in their name and setting up a server that allowed them to send messages stamped with Harvard's name."Nidhi Razdan said that “no one at Harvard reacted when I publicly announced I was leaving NDTV for the University.”“I had even tagged them in my tweets where I said I was joining Harvard to teach journalism,” she wrote.The NYT investigation not only revealed the scope and sophistication of cybercrime but also raised questions about Harvard’s lack of action to prevent such scams when one of the victims explicitly warned the university about it.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/nothing-to-be-ashamed-of-nidhi-razdan-on-her-harvard-nightmare-of-fake-job-offer-101639749236624.html
17-12-2021||India||5 states account for over half of India's active caseload, all have Omicron too||Five states account for more than half of India's active case count of coronavirus disease (Covid-19), according to data shared by the Union ministry of health and family welfare on Friday.India's active caseload of Covid-19 stands at 86,415 as of December 17, and Kerala, Maharashtra, Tamil Nadu, Karnataka and West Bengal account for 67,377 infections cumulatively, the Union health ministry data showed.Kerala, which has long been the most affected Indian state by the ongoing coronavirus pandemic, accounts for 40.31 per cent of the country's total active case count, with 34,836 infections.The southern state is followed by Maharashtra that has an active caseload of 10,372. The active case count in West Bengal, Tamil Nadu and Karnataka stands at 7,506, 7476 and 7,187, respectively.This latest data comes at a time when the world is battling the Omicron variant of the coronavirus, which was first discovered in South Africa in November, and has also been categorised as a ‘variant of concern’ by the World Health Organization (WHO).At a press briefing on Friday, joint secretary of the Union health ministry Lav Agarwal said India has so far reported as many as 101 Omicron cases in 11 states and Union territories (UTs). According to the latest report, the case count has increased to 109 after Maharashtra reported eight new Omicron infections.As of now, Maharashtra accounts for the most number of cases, with 40 infections. Karnataka has detected eight cases of the new coronavirus variant, Kerala has reported five so far, while one each has been found in Tamil Nadu and West Bengal.Also Read | 8 more Omicron cases in Maharashtra, 6 in Pune alone; state’s tally reaches 40Agarwal also said people must adhere to Covid-appropriate behaviour and follow protocols as well while attending or hosting parties and functions in order to check the spread of the virus and its new variant as well.Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR) director general Balram Bhargava listed dos and don'ts ahead of the upcoming weeks of Christmas and New Year celebrations when chances of cases rising in India is strong.“This is the time to avoid non-essential travel and mass gatherings and it is very important to observe low-intensity festivities,” Bhargava said at the press briefing.India on Friday witnessed a marginal dip in fresh Covid-19 cases after 7,447 people tested positive for the virus after as many as 7,974 infections logged on Thursday.Following Friday's additions, the overall Covid-19 tally of the country rose to 34,726,049, according to the Union health ministry's bulletin earlier in the day.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/5-states-account-for-over-half-of-india-s-active-caseload-all-have-omicron-too-101639747042584.html
17-12-2021||India||'Nothing to do with it': Akhilesh Yadav over MPs’ remarks on proposal to raise women’s legal marriage age||Samajwadi Party (SP) chief Akhilesh Yadav on Friday distanced the party from the remarks made by some of its lawmakers over the Centre’s move to raise the legal age of marriage for women.The remarks from the SP chief came after at least two of the party’s members of Parliament reportedly opposed the Centre’s decision.“Samajwadi Party has nothing to do with any such statement. The Samajwadi Party is a progressive party and has launched schemes for the progress of girls and women,” he told news agency ANI when asked about the MPs’ remarks.Also read | 'India is a poor country...' Samajwadi Party MP says will not support bill to raise minimum marriage age of womenHe was addressing a poll rally at Rae Bareli in Uttar Pradesh as part of his campaign.The Union government might table a bill in Parliament, during the ongoing Winter Session, to raise the minimum legal age of marriage for women in the country to 21, according to several reports on Thursday.The proposal regarding the move has reportedly been cleared by the Union Cabinet and if implemented, it will raise women’s legal marriage age to 21, from the current 18, at par with that of men’s.Earlier in the day, SP’s Lok Sabha member Shafiqur Rahman Burq opposed the bill and said many people would want to marry off their daughters at an “early age.”“India is a poor country and everybody wants to marry off their daughter at an early age... I will not support this Bill in Parliament,” Barq was quoted as saying by news agency ANI.Another party leader ST Hasan asked if girls could vote at the age of 18 why could they not marry at the same age.“Girls should be married when they attain the age of fertility. There is nothing wrong if a mature girl is married at 16. If she can vote at the age of 18, why can't she marry?” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/nothing-to-do-with-it-akhilesh-yadav-over-mps-remarks-on-proposal-to-raise-women-s-legal-marriage-age-101639748410510.html
17-12-2021||India||SC asks states to clear Covid-19 ex-gratia claims in a week, sends notice to Delhi, 2 others||The Supreme Court on Friday put a one-week deadline for states and union territories to clear the backlog of claims for providing ex-gratia compensation for deaths due to Covid-19 and sought information from the Delhi government and states of Chhattisgarh and Karnataka on the progress achieved with regard to receiving applications and releasing payment under the same scheme.The Court, while monitoring the implementation of its order passed on June 30 and October 4 directing ₹50,000 compensation for Covid-19 deaths, noticed that some states were slack in implementing its orders that required wide publicity about the scheme and payments to be made immediately to the beneficiary families of the deceased. However, with regard to Delhi, Chhattisgarh and Karnataka, the information was not available as no notice was issued in this regard.A bench of justices MR Shah and BV Nagarathna said, “We issue notice to the chief secretaries of Karnataka, NCT of Delhi, and Chhattisgarh, directing them to file status reports on deaths registered, applications/claims received and claims sanctioned or paid.”Going through a chart prepared by additional solicitor general (ASG) Aishwarya Bhati, the Court found that in states of Maharashtra, Andhra Pradesh, Kerala, West Bengal, Punjab, and Tamil Nadu, there existed a huge gap between the total deaths/claims received and actual payment released. From some states such as Rajasthan, no information was forthcoming on the total claims received.This chart also indicated that in Delhi, out of 26,128 claims received, payment was disbursed for 21,179 while the corresponding figures for Karnataka were 7,277 claims settled against 38,220 deaths and for Chhattisgarh 11,329 settled claims out of 17,567 applications received.In Maharashtra, out of 141,025 Covid deaths – the highest reported by any state, only about 8,000 claims were processed out of the 109,000 applications received. “Despite strong observations made earlier, only in 8,000 cases, payments have been made,” the bench said. Directing the state to process the remaining claims within a week, the bench observed, “We don’t understand the problem that always we have to fire at you. Tell your officers, this can’t become a daily affair.”Kerala, with an official tally of 40,855 Covid deaths had managed to release payments only to 548 persons out of the 10,778 applications received so far. “It is a sorry state of affairs,” the bench remarked, adding, “As a welfare state, it is the duty of the state to pay compensation/ex-gratia to persons who have already suffered.” Within a week, the state was directed to process remaining claims by giving wide publicity through newspaper advertisements issued in local and vernacular newspapers on the same model as issued by Gujarat government giving particulars about the portal for making applications, form to be filled, and grievance redressal committee to approach for any complaints.The Court noted similar gaps in Tamil Nadu (17,448 persons paid out of 31,850 claims), Punjab (2840 persons paid out of 16,234 deaths), and West Bengal (3355 claims settled out of 19,630 deaths). “It seems everybody has woken up after our orders,” the bench observed, putting all states and union territories to a one-week deadline to clear remaining claims.The only state to be singled out for not reporting progress on compensation claims was Rajasthan with the state recording a total of 8,955 deaths. “Who will believe that in a state such as Rajasthan, only 8,965 persons have died due to Covid,” the bench observed, adding, “It seems state is suppressing something.” When the Court wanted to know the total applications received, senior advocate Manish Singhvi appearing for Rajasthan denied having the said information.The bench posted the matter on January 17 and asked all states and union territories to file status reports of compliance by January 12.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/sc-asks-states-to-clear-covid-19-ex-gratia-claims-in-a-week-sends-notice-to-delhi-2-others-101639748037334.html
17-12-2021||India||‘Rape is a heinous crime’: Priyanka Gandhi Vadra condemns party MLA's remarks||Congress general secretary Priyanka Gandhi Vadra on Friday ‘wholeheartedly condemned’ a party legislator's crass remarks on rape, describing the comment as ‘indefensible.’Also Read | Senior Congress leader and former Karnataka speaker makes crass comment on rape in winter session“I wholeheartedly condemn the statement made earlier today by Sri. K.R.Ramesh Kumar. It is inexplicable how anyone can ever utter such words, they are indefensible. Rape is a heinous crime. Full stop,” she tweeted. I wholeheartedly condemn the statement made earlier today by Sri. K.R.Ramesh Kumar. It is inexplicable how anyone can ever utter such words, they are indefensible. Rape is a heinous crime. Full stop.Ramesh Kumar, a former two-term speaker of the Karnataka legislative assembly made the remark on Thursday, during the ongoing winter session of the assembly. “There's a saying that if rape is inevitable, then lie down and enjoy it. That's exactly the situation which you are,” Ramesh said during a discussion on the floor of the house. Though the MLA later apologised for his statement, as he took to Twitter to describe it as an ‘off the cuff remark,' while also promising to be careful with his words in the future, it triggered massive outrage, with the matter echoing in Parliament as well.Also Read | Such mindset can't bring change: Jaya Bachchan on Cong MLA's ‘rape’ remarkThe comment led to furor also because the Congress is contesting the upcoming assembly elections in Uttar Pradesh on the plank of women empowerment. Priyanka Gandhi Vadra, who is personally leading the party's charge in the poll-bound state, has coined the slogan ‘ladki hoon, lad sakti hoon’ (I'm a girl, I can fight).She has also promised that 40 per cent of the grand old party's candidates for the UP assembly polls will be women.Also Read | ‘Let’s not drag the matter': Congress leader Kharge on party MLA's ‘rape’ remarkEarlier today, Randeep Singh Surjewala, the chief spokesperson of the party, denounced Kumar, saying that ‘legislators are expected to be role models and should desist from such unacceptable behaviour.’||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/rape-is-a-heinous-crime-priyanka-gandhi-vadra-condemns-party-mla-s-remarks-101639746696304.html
17-12-2021||India||Who is the Punjabi gun-toting singer that Congress doled out the red carpet for?||Come election season, people joining political parties, often crossing over from another outfit, is not unusual. Often though, the measure of the importance the party is attaching to the new entrant is the stature of the people conducting the induction. By those, or any standards, on December 3, 28-year-old Sidhu Moosewala had laid in front of him the proverbial red carpet. To his left was Punjab chief minister Charanjit Singh Channi, to his right was the Punjab Congress president Navjot Singh Sidhu. Both sang paeans for the ‘youth icon’ that would invigorate the Congress, with Channi even calling it a “revolutionary day in the state’s politics.” Later that day, Moosewala would travel to Delhi, Channi, Sidhu and state in charge Harish Choudhary, Rahul Gandhi. Clearly, the Congress believes, Moosewala is an important inductee in Punjab.
17-12-2021||India||Keeping up with UP | Can the caste census be opposition’s antidote to Hindutva?||It was December 14. Just the day before, Prime Minister Narendra Modi had led the inaugural ceremony of the significant Kashi Vishwanath corridor in Varanasi, full of powerful political symbolism. With the pivotal Uttar Pradesh elections now just a month away, the BJP’s seemingly primary challenger in Akhilesh Yadav must have known he had to respond. Respond he did.
17-12-2021||India||Indian users received over 202 million spam calls from one phone number: Report||Over 202 million spam calls were made between January to October this year from just one phone number, according to a new report. Truecaller, a global platform for verifying contacts and blocking unwanted communication, said in its annual Global Spam Report just one phone number disturbed over 664,000 people every day and 27,000 people every hour with spam calls.“Truecaller actively maintains a list of top spammers in each region in order to automatically block them, but this one spammer is so far ahead of the rest that they will find it very hard to catch up,” the report said, wondering how Indian telecom operators even allowed this kind of call volume.The company noted that the vast majority of all the spam calls in the country were of sales and telemarketing. The report suggests that KYC (know your customer) scam remained one of the most common scams where fraudsters pretend to be working for a bank or digital payment service and ask for user KYC documents as mandated by the Reserve Bank of India (RBI).Citing multiple users reports to Truecaller, the company said scammers continued to operate in a typical way by targeting unsuspecting victims under some pretext of One-Time Passwords (OTPs), online sales, lotteries and make them download a remote access app that captures sensitive information, leading to a huge loss of money from banks, cards and digital mobile wallets.According to the report, every user on average received about 17 spam calls per month while spam volumes received by Truecaller users were in excess of 3.8 billion calls in the month of October alone.With Truecaller users receiving 32.9 spam calls per month, Brazil remained the most spammed country in the world, followed by Peru.“In a time when the ongoing pandemic continues to impact people as well as countries and is now going into a new round of lockdowns, this year’s report has shown that not only has the pandemic affected communication behavior but also spam, sales and scam patterns around the world," Alan Mamedi, CEO of Truecaller, said in a statement.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/indian-users-received-over-202-million-spam-calls-from-one-phone-number-report-101639744078666.html
17-12-2021||India||‘Non-essential travel…’: ICMR chief lists dos and don’ts during Christmas, New Year amid Omicron||Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR) director general Balram Bhargava on Friday laid down three measures he said everyone must follow to contain the rising cases of the Omicron variant of the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) ahead of Christmas and New Year celebrations.“This is the time to avoid non-essential travel and mass gatherings and it is very important to observe low-intensity festivities,” Bhargava told reporters at a press briefing of the Union ministry of health and family welfare.The ICMR chief also said districts reporting a weekly Covid-19 test positivity rate of over 5 per cent must implement strict, local restrictive measures “until it comes below 5 per cent for at two weeks.” He said there are as many as 24 districts around the country where the weekly positivity rate is still above 5 per cent.It is time to avoid non-essential travel, mass gatherings and observe low-intensity festivities.Districts with more than 5% of test positivity rate need to ensure restrictive measures until it comes below 5% for at least two weeks - DG, @ICMRDELHI #IndiaFightsCorona pic.twitter.com/AzLwuGuX0IHis remarks come as India's tally of Omicron cases went beyond 100 on Friday. The country currently has 101 infections spread across 11 states and Union territories (UTs), with Maharashtra leading the tally with 32 infections. The western state is followed by Delhi and Rajasthan where 22 and 17 cases of Omicron Covid-19 variant have so far been detected, respectively.Earlier in the day, Delhi reported 10 fresh cases of Omicron and Telangana logged two new ones.Lav Agarwal, the health ministry joint secretary, reiterated the Centre's emphasis on Covid-19 vaccines and said they cannot replace masks. He said people should continue wearing masks and take their due vaccine shots in order to fight the virus and its various variants.Agarwal said India's current vaccination coverage is the highest in the world with 74.31 lakh doses being administered on an average every day. “[This] is 4.8 times more than that in the USA (15.5 lakh) and 12.5 times more than in the UK (5.9 lakh),” the joint secretary said during the press briefing.India's Covid-19 vaccination coverage has surpassed 1350 million.Meanwhile, the country reported 7,447 fresh cases on Friday, taking the overall tally to 34,726,049, according to data provided by the Union health ministry. The active case count in India stands at 86,415, accounting for 0.25 per cent of the total cases—lowest since March last year.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/icmr-chief-lists-dos-and-don-ts-during-christmas-new-year-amid-omicron-101639740272385.html
17-12-2021||India||Rights watchdog calls for decongesting India’s prisons||India has witnessed a spike in its prison population with allegedly about 900,000 more arrests being made during the Covid-19 pandemic, the Commonwealth Human Rights Initiative (CHRI), an independent human rights monitor, has claimed in a report.The CHRI, which released a statement on the findings, called upon the Supreme Court, state governments, prison authorities, human rights bodies and legal institutions to work towards decongesting the country’s jails.“From 2019 to 2021, the average increase in prison populations in 17 states is recorded at 23%, whereas in the previous years, it was 2-4%,” the CHRI claimed. “Prison populations alarmingly increased between December 2019 and November 2021.”Overcrowding in jails can impact the strained prison resources of the country, leading to further spread of the coronavirus as well as other communicable diseases, the CHRI said in its statement.CHRI director Sanjoy Hazarika said, “The exponential increase in arrest figures during 2020, when India was going through the suffering caused by Covid-19, is alarming and needs to be inquired into.”The rights watchdog called upon the National Human Rights Commission to conduct regular inspection of overcrowded jails by deploying dedicated rapporteurs and prison monitors.The CHRI’s findings were based on prison population in 24 states and Union Territories, which comprised about 84% of India’s prisoners as of December 2019.During the last couple of years, said the CHRI, India’s prison occupancy shot up from 115% to 133%, while the proportion of undertrials rose from 69% to 77%.“The year 2020 witnessed nearly 900,000 more arrests than 2019 despite lockdowns and extensive restrictions on the movement of general public,” the watchdog alleged.“India’s already overcrowded prisons are struggling to cater to the needs of prisoners,” claimed Madhurima Dhanuka, head of the CHRI’s prison reforms programme.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/rights-watchdog-calls-for-decongesting-india-s-prisons-101639744557130.html
17-12-2021||India||In Assam, chief of newly floated terrorist outfit killed in police encounter||The police in Assam’s Karbi Anglong district have killed the chief of a newly floated terror outfit in an early morning encounter on Friday. According to the police, Jackson Rongphar, 35, the self-styled chairman of Karbi Democratic Liberation Front (KDLF) was killed at a place under Rongmongway police station around 9:00 am. “Rongphar was earlier a member of Karbi Peoples’ Liberation Tiger (KPLT) and had formed KDLF recently. They were engaged in extortions and had kidnapped the manager of a construction site a few days back,” Pushpraj Singh, Karbi Anglong police superintendent said. According to the police, the manager was rescued a few days back and a KDLF cadre involved in the abduction was arrested. “On Friday morning we got information about Rongphar’s hideout and sent a team to nab him. But he and his associates started firing at us and the police team also retaliated,” Singh said. “While some others managed to escape, Rongphar was later found injured at the site. He was rushed to a nearby hospital where he was declared brought dead. We have recovered a pistol and some ammunition from his possession,” he added. 
17-12-2021||India||Punjab election: Amarinder Singh seals alliance with BJP with a hug, says 101% sure of winning||Amarinder Singh's party Punjab Lok Congress will fight the assembly election in alliance with the BJP, Punjab BJP in-charge Gajendra Singh Shekhawat confirmed on Friday after a meeting with former Punjab chief minister Amarinder Singh. Amarinder Singh too announced the alliance on Twitter posting a photo of Amarinder Singh and Gajendra Singh hugging. “We have formally announced a seat adjustment with the BJP for the 2022 Punjab Vidhan Sabha elections,” Amarinder Singh tweeted.  Met union minister & @BJP4India incharge for Punjab, Shri @gssjodhpur in New Delhi today to chalk out future course of action ahead of the Punjab Vidhan Sabha elections. We have formally announced a seat adjustment with the BJP for the 2022 Punjab Vidhan Sabha elections. pic.twitter.com/cgqAcpW2MW“We are ready and we are going to win this election. The decision on seat-sharing will be taken on the seat to seat basis, with winnability being the priority. We are 101% sure of winning this election,” Amarinder Singh said. Punjab is scheduled to go to the polls next year and what makes the election more interesting is the political development in the state in the last six months. Amarinder Singh was asked to resign from the chief minister's post by the Congress high command as Congress MLAs rebelled against him. Following the 'insult', Singh quit the Congress and floated Punjab Lok Congress. The room for forging an alliance with the BJP was always open with the farm laws being the only roadblock as Amarinder Singh opposed the three farm laws since the beginning. With the Centre repealing those laws just ahead of the Punjab election, the road for an alliance with the BJP became clear from Singh.In the alliance, BJP will be the senior partner and is likely to contest in more seats than Punjab Lok Congress. Apart from BJP-Punjab Lok Congress, the AAP factor will also be crucial in the upcoming election as Arvind Kejriwal's party is campaigning in the state with all guns blazing.Congress is likely to opt for Navjot Sidhu, the chief of the party's Punjab unit, as the CM face, instead of present chief minister Charanjit Singh Channi.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/amarinder-singh-s-party-to-fight-punjab-election-in-alliance-with-bjp-101639741660861.html
17-12-2021||India||News updates from HT: Jaya Bachchan wants ‘strict action’ against Karnataka MLA for rape remarks and all the latest news||Here are today’s top news, analysis and opinion. Know all about the latest news and other news updates from Hindustan Times.Such mindset can't bring change: Jaya Bachchan on Cong MLA's ‘rape’ remarkSamajwadi Party (SP) lawmaker Jaya Bachchan on Friday demanded “strict action” against Congress’ KR Ramesh Kumar for his controversial “enjoy rape” remark, saying things cannot change if people like the Karnataka legislator who have such a “mindset” are sitting in the assembly or Parliament. Read moreOver 100 Omicron cases in India across 11 states, UTs; 32 in Maharashtra alone: CentreThe number of Omicron cases have now surpassed 100 in the country and these infections have been reported from 11 states and Union territories so far, the Union ministry of health and family welfare said on Friday. Read more‘To all women of Karnataka…’: Congress’ DK Shivakumar issues apology over MLA’s rape remarkCongress’ Karnataka unit president DK Shivakumar on Friday apologised to women about the remarks made by one of his party legislators KR Ramesh Kumar about rape amid an ongoing furore over the incident inside the state assembly. Read moreDhoni, Saha or Karthik? Ravichandran Ashwin selects the best keeper against spin; 'I've hardly seen him miss anything'Team India's wicketkeeping prowess has been one of the important reasons behind the side's continual success across all formats of the game. Read moreThe Whistleblower review: Bad writing spoils Vyapam scam-based SonyLIV seriesLike the Americans have made a habit of ravaging third-world countries with war and making films about them to assuage guilt, the new Indian trend seems to be to do the same with financial scams. Read more||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/news-updates-from-ht-jaya-bachchan-wants-strict-action-against-karnataka-mla-for-rape-remarks-and-all-the-latest-news-101639741329635.html
17-12-2021||India||Kerala Muslim bodies resent decision to hike marriageable age of women||Many Muslim organisations in Kerala have criticized the Centre’s move to hike the legal age of marriage for women from 18 to 21 years. Muslim League leader E T Mohammad Basheer on Friday introduced an adjournment motion in the Lok Sabha saying the decision was against Muslim personal law and it was another step towards introducing a uniform civil code in the country. “We will oppose this. The government is trying to implement the Sangh Parivar’s favourite agenda of uniform civil code. The Muslim Personal Law Board clearly defines marriage, divorce and right to property. These issues relate to our faith,” said Basheer adding he will talk to other political parties to form a consensus on the issue. The Congress is yet to make its stance clear on the matter. The Union government is planning to bring a bill to increase the minimum legal age of marriage for women from 18 to 21, people familiar with developments said, underlining a far-reaching decision that will require modification in faith-based personal laws dealing with marriage and inheritance.The Union Cabinet cleared the proposal in its meeting on Wednesday and the government plans to bring the bill — which will bring the minimum age of marriage for women at par with that of men — in the ongoing winter session of Parliament, said the people quoted above.The Samastha Kerala Jamait-ul-Ulema, an organisation of Sunni scholars, and many other religious bodies also opposed the move. The women’s wing of the League also opposed the decision saying delaying the age of marriage will give way to “live-in relationships and illegitimate relations”. “The necessity for increasing the age from 18 to 21 is not known. No medical study indicates any psychological or physiological problems if girls are married at 18. The stipulation that girls should wait till 21 to marry is an affront to individual freedom and religious belief,” said T K Ashraf, leader of the Salafi group Wisdom Islamic Organisation.Muslim organisations got support from an unexpected quarter, the CPI (M) women’s wing-- the All India Democratic Women’s Association. “We oppose the decision strongly. This will do more harm to women than helping them. Instead of bridging the gender gap and empowering women the government is coming out with a new legislation laced with communal outlook,” it said in a statement. But, the Kerala Catholic Bishops Council (KCBC) however, has welcomed the move. The apex body of Christians, KCBC, lauded the decision to bring uniformity in the marriageable age of men and women. “We feel education remains a key factor and by 21 women will get an opportunity to complete their graduation. This will pave the way for a mature relationship and healthy family. Therefore, we view the decision positively,” said KCBC family commission secretary Father Paul Simenthy.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/kerala-muslim-bodies-resent-decision-to-hike-marriageable-age-of-women-101639740956740.html
17-12-2021||India||'India is a poor country...' Samajwadi Party MP says will not support bill to raise minimum marriage age of women||With the Union government all set to raise the minimum marriage age of a woman from 18 to 21, Samajwadi Party (SP) Lok Sabha MP Shafiqur Rahman Burq said on Friday he will not support the bill for this, whenever it is brought for discussion in Parliament.Also Read | Govt may table bill to raise women’s marriage age to 21The reason, Burq said, is that since ‘India is a poor country, parents may want to marry off their daughters at an early age.’“We are a poor country, so many people may wish to get their girls married at an early age. As far as the girls' education is concerned, it is possible for them to be educated either in their own home, or at their in-laws' place,” the Member of Parliament from Uttar Pradesh's Sambhal told news agency ANI.However, he also clarified that this is individual opinion, and does not represent views of his party.  #WATCH | India a poor country and everybody wants to marry off their daughter at an early age... I will not support this Bill in Parliament: Samajwadi Party MP Shafiqur Rahman Barq on Union Cabinet giving nod to raise legal age of marriage for women from 18 to 21 years pic.twitter.com/kxyXalJFpm“Whether its my daughter or your, we have to think the best for them. I also want to clarify an earlier remark. Then, I was actually talking about the immoral times we are living in,” the SP lawmaker further said.Burq was referring to a video in which he is heard telling a reporter that girls will ‘go astray’ if the minimum legal age for marriage is raised. लड़कियों की शादी की उम्र 18 से 21 करने पर लड़कियों को ज़्यादा आवारगी का मौक़ा मिल जाएगा - “समाजवादी पार्टी, उत्तर प्रदेश”ये है आधी आबादी के लिए सपा की असली सोच !! pic.twitter.com/aMPAXfG3mXThe Union Cabinet cleared the said modification in a meeting on Wednesday, and plans to bring the legislation in the ongoing winter session of Parliament.Under the existing laws, the minimum legal age at which a woman can get married is 18, while that for a man is 21.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/india-is-a-poor-country-samajwadi-party-mp-says-will-not-support-bill-to-raise-minimum-marriage-age-of-women-101639736813121.html
17-12-2021||India||Over 100 Omicron cases in India across 11 states, UTs; 32 in Maharashtra alone: Centre||The number of Omicron cases have now surpassed 100 in the country and these infections have been reported from 11 states and Union territories so far, the Union ministry of health and family welfare said on Friday.As many as 101 Omicron cases have been detected across the country and Maharashtra with 32 cases has added the most to the national tally, data from the ministry showed. Delhi, with 22 cases, had the second highest number of cases.101 #Omicron cases have been detected in 11 states so far in the country including 32 in Maharashtra and 22 in Delhi- @MoHFW_INDIA #IndiaFightsCorona pic.twitter.com/J08Xl2jp3sAmong other states, Rajasthan reported 17 Omicron cases and Karnataka and Telangana have identified eight infections each. Meanwhile, five cases have also been reported from Gujarat and Kerala each.Andhra Pradesh, Chandigarh, Tamil Nadu and West Bengal have each reported a case of Omicron, the health ministry’s joint secretary Lav Agarwal said during a regular press briefing.Also read | India sees slight fall in daily Covid-19 tally at 7,447; new deaths up by 391The health ministry also highlighted that the number of Omicron cases were rising globally and as of Friday, the United Kingdom reported 11,708 infections followed by Denmark with 9,009 and Norway with 1,792 cases.South Africa, where the variant was first detected, has reported 1,247 cases so far. Less than 500 cases have been logged in other major countries like Canada, the US, France, Australia, South Korea and Belgium.The number of daily #Omicron cases around the world are increasing rapidly particularly in the UK, Denmark, Norway and South Africa.The countries with surge in COVID cases are also reporting high #OmricronVariant- @MoHFW_INDIA #IndiaFightsCorona pic.twitter.com/c36N28ko0WAgarwal also echoed the World Health Organization’s (WHO) latest observation about the new strain, which has noted Omicron was spreading faster than the Delta variant in countries like South Africa, where the older strain was less prevalent, and in the UK, where its circulation was high.He warned the Omicron variant could cause further surges in global Covid-19 cases due to its high transmissibility and also said that the variant might potentially escape immune against the infection, noting that evidence regarding this was still emerging.Emphasising the usage of face masks, following social distancing and hand hygiene, Agarwal repeated the WHO’s advisory that vaccines alone won’t be enough in the fight against the coronavirus pandemic.Balram Bhargava, the director general of the Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR), said non-essential travel and mass gatherings should be avoided and the New Year celebrations should be observed with “low intensity”. He also said districts with more than 5 per cent test positivity rate should impose restrictive measures until the weekly positive rate falls below 5 per cent for at least two weeks.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/over-100-omicron-cases-in-india-across-11-states-uts-32-in-maharashtra-alone-centre-101639739085803.html
17-12-2021||India||PM Modi ‘deeply touched’ as Bhutan confers its highest civilian award on him||Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Friday expressed gratitude towards the King of Bhutan for conferring on him Bhutan's highest civilian honour, the Order of the Druk Gyalpo. He also thanked his Bhutanese counterpart Lotay Tshering for his words, saying he was “deeply touched” by the warm gesture on the occasion of the National Day of Bhutan.“I have been privileged to receive the utmost love and affection from our Bhutanese brother and sisters, and take this occasion to convey my greetings to all of them on the auspicious occasion of the National Day of Bhutan,” the prime minister said in a series of tweets.Admiring Bhutan for its “unique model of sustainable development and the deeply spiritual way of life”, Prime Minister Modi said India will always cherish the country as one of its “closest friends and neighbours” and continue to support its development journey “in every possible way”.“I admire Bhutan for its unique model of sustainable development and the deeply spiritual way of life. Successive Druk Gyalpos - Their Majesties the Kings - have given a unique identity to the Kingdom, and nurtured the special bond of neighbourly friendship that our nations share,” he tweeted.PM Modi is the first foreign head of government to receive Bhutan’s highest civilian award. The King of Bhutan, Jigme Khesar Namgyel Wangchuck, conferred honour on PM Modi for his outstanding contribution to bilateral relations and his services to the Bhutanese nation and people.Announcing the award, Bhutan PM Lotay Tshering said he was “overjoyed to hear His Majesty pronounce Your Excellency Modiji’s name for the highest civilian decoration”. According to Tshering, the King highlighted all the "unconditional friendship and support" PM Modi extended over the years and "particularly during pandemic."||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/pm-modi-deeply-touched-as-bhutan-confers-its-highest-civilian-award-on-him-101639737358709.html
17-12-2021||India||PM Narendra Modi honoured with Bhutan’s highest civilian award||Bhutan on Friday conferred its highest civilian award, the Order of the Druk Gyalpo, on Indian Prime Minister Narendra Modi on the occasion of the Himalayan country’s National Day. Modi is the first foreign head of government to receive the Ngadag Pel gi Khorlo, Bhutan’s highest civilian award, which is considered the pinnacle of the country’s honour system as it takes precedence over all other orders, decorations and medals. The award was conferred by the King of Bhutan, Jigme Khesar Namgyel Wangchuck, in recognition of Modi’s contribution to India-Bhutan relations and his services to Bhutan and its people. Bhutan Prime Minister Lotay Tshering said on his social media accounts that he was “overjoyed to hear His Majesty pronounce Your Excellency Modiji’s name for the highest civilian decoration”. The king “highlighted all the unconditional friendship and support Modiji extended over the years and particularly during pandemic”, Tshering said. “Much deserving! Congratulations from the people of Bhutan. In all interactions, seen Your Excellency as a great, spiritual human being. Looking forward to celebrating the honour in person,” Tshering said. Modi has received several international awards in recent years. Last year, he was awarded the Legion of Merit in the highest degree of the chief commander by the US president in recognition of his leadership and vision for India’s emergence as a global power and his contributions to advance the India-US strategic partnership. In 2019, Russia conferred on him its highest civilian honour, the Order of St Andrew the Apostle, for promoting partnership and friendly relations between the two countries. The UAE gave him its highest civilian honour, the Zayed Medal, while the Maldives awarded the Order of the Distinguished Rule of Nishan Izzuddin in the same year.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/pm-narendra-modi-honoured-with-bhutan-s-highest-civilian-award-101639738496162.html
17-12-2021||India||66 known Indian-origin fighters affiliated with ISIS: US State Department||There were 66 known Indian-origin fighters affiliated with the global terrorist group Islamic State, the latest US State Department report on terrorism has said as it commended India’s counterterrorism forces, including the NIA, for actively detecting and disrupting transnational and regional terror forces.US Secretary of State Antony Blinken, in the 2020 Country Reports on Terrorism issued on Thursday, said that India collaborates with the United States on implementing UNSCR 2309 and is enforcing compliance with the dual-screen X-ray mandate for cargo screening at airport locations.The UN Security Council Resolution 2309 calls governments to meet their responsibility to keep citizens secure while travelling by air.The report said that there were 66 known Indian-origin fighters affiliated with ISIS, as of November.No Foreign Terrorist Fighters (FTFs) were repatriated to India during 2020, it said.Highlighting the US-India cooperation, the report said that the United States continues to build its strategic partnership with the Government of India, including through bilateral engagements such as the 17th Counterterrorism Joint Working Group and Third Designations Dialogue in September, as well as the third 2 2 Ministerial Dialogue in October.It also commended the Indian counterterrorism forces, including the National Investigation Agency (NIA), for actively detecting and disrupting transnational and regional terror forces.“Indian counterterrorism forces, at the federal and state levels, actively detected and disrupted transnational and regional terror forces.“The National Investigation Agency examined 34 terrorism-related cases related to ISIS and arrested 160 persons, including 10 alleged al-Qaeda operatives from Kerala and West Bengal, in September,” the report said.Giving details of the terrorists’ arrests made by the NIA, the report said that the premier investigation agency arrested 10 alleged al-Qaeda-affiliated operatives from Kerala and West Bengal on September 19 and 26.“Through the end of September, the NIA had investigated 34 terrorism cases it indicated were related to ISIS and arrested 160 persons,” it said.The Kolkata Police counter-terrorism Special Task Force on May 29 arrested Abdul Karim, the second-in-command of Jamaat-ul-Mujahideen Bangladesh, on suspicion of involvement in a 2013 bombing in Bodh Gaya, it said.“India responds to the US requests for information related to terrorism investigations in a timely manner and makes efforts to mitigate threats in response to US information.“Over the past two years, collaborative efforts have disrupted terrorist travel and alerted US authorities to possible threats in the United States and against US interests,” the report said.Officials in India remain concerned about internet use for terrorist recruitment and radicalisation to violence, as well as for fomenting interreligious tensions, it said.“In 2020 there were multiple reports in the media and from the NIA of suspected cases of online terrorist radicalisation, particularly in southern Indian states,” the report said.India is active in leadership roles in the many regional and international fora in 2020, where it has promoted multilateral counterterrorism cooperation, it said.India has agreed to share intelligence on terrorism with Sri Lanka and the Maldives. India’s longstanding defence relationship with Russia extends to counterterrorism issues, the US State Department report added.The US report, meanwhile, pointed towards the “gaps” in the interagency intelligence and information sharing.It said that the “Indian security agencies are effective in disrupting terror threats, although gaps remain in interagency intelligence and information sharing”.“The Indian Multi-Agency Centre (MAC) collaborates with the US on exchanging terrorist screening information. In the absence of a National Counter Terrorism Center, the MAC conducts real-time collation and sharing of intelligence among federal and state security agencies.“Several Indian states have established state-level MACs to disseminate terrorism information to law enforcement,” the report said.It also said that Indian security forces demonstrate limited capacity to patrol and secure extensive maritime and land borders.“India is implementing UNSCR 2396 to improve detection and deterrence of terrorist travel by using watchlists, implementing biographic and biometric screening at ports of entry, and expanding information sharing,” it said.The United Nations Security Council Resolution 2396 (2017) requires Member States to develop and implement systems to collect biometric data in order to identify terrorists responsibly and properly.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/66-known-indian-origin-fighters-affiliated-with-isis-us-state-department-101639735850797.html
17-12-2021||India||Naidu upset as ministers skip parliamentary proceedings||Rajya Sabha chairman M Venkaiah Naidu took serious note on Friday of the absence of several ministers from parliamentary proceedings, saying some of them were taking it casually and it won’t be allowed in the future. Naidu said that ministers will have to take permission from the Chair before skipping parliamentary proceedings. Those missing from Friday’s proceedings included minister of state for railways Danve Raosaheb Dadarao, minister of state for food and consumer affairs Sadhvi Niranjan Jyoti, and minister of state for agriculture and farmers’ welfare Shobha Karandlaje. Minister of state for parliamentary affairs V Muraleedharan tabled the papers on behalf of the three ministers in the Upper House of the Parliament.Naidu said, “The ministers who were supposed to lay papers on the table of the House, having given notice to the Chair, should not be absent. Next time, in extreme circumstances, if they have any problem, they must approach the Chair in advance and seek permission.”Asking the leader of the House Piyush Goyal and parliamentary affairs minister Pralhad Joshi to take note of the ministers’ absence, Naidu said it won’t be allowed again. “Some of them are doing it, while others think it is casual. It cannot be casual, it cannot be usual. I’ll not allow such things in the future. The leader of the House and the parliamentary affairs minister are here. I hope they take notice. I’m not objecting to others laying [the papers] on their behalf with prior notice and permission. This has to be kept in mind.”Opposition leaders slammed the government over ministers missing from parliamentary proceedings. After Naidu’s statement, CPI(M) lawmaker John Brittas said “they (ministers) have no respect for the Parliament”, to which Naidu replied, “This applies to all the people who do not respect the Parliament and the Chair.”Speaking to HT, Brittas said, “The ministers are taking cues from the Prime Minister [Narendra Modi] and the home minister [Amit Shah]. The PM has spent very little time in Parliament. During the last monsoon session, he must have attended the Parliament for an hour. Earlier, there were times when the PM used to sit through the debates.”He pointed out that recently the Rajya Sabha had to be adjourned for 15 minutes because Union health minister Mansukh Mandaviya was not around. “It was not an impromptu discussion. It was a short notice discussion on Omicron, but the minister was absent. The deputy chairman had to adjourn the House for 15 minutes for the minister to come to the Parliament.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/naidu-fumes-as-ministers-skip-parliamentary-proceedings-101639736214133.html
17-12-2021||India||Such mindset can't bring change: Jaya Bachchan on Cong MLA's ‘rape’ remark||Samajwadi Party (SP) lawmaker Jaya Bachchan on Friday demanded “strict action” against Congress’ KR Ramesh Kumar for his controversial “enjoy rape” remark, saying things cannot change if people like the Karnataka legislator who have such a “mindset” are sitting in the assembly or Parliament, according to news agency ANI.“Shameful behaviour, shameful action. The party must deal with them and take very strict action so that it is an example for others not to even think of such things, forget talking about it in the House,” the SP’s Rajya Sabha MP was quoted as saying by ANI.Also Read | Karnataka Speaker who laughed over MLA's rape comment says, ‘Let’s not drag it'Kumar made the controversial rape remark on Thursday during the ongoing Winter Session of the Karnataka assembly. Speaker Vishweshwara Hedge Kageri was trying to control the chaos in the House after Congress MLAs demanded time to speak on the rain-related destruction in their respective constituencies.After Kageri said he has to “enjoy the situation and say ‘yes, yes’ and that he should quit trying to "control the situation and conduct the proceedings in a systematic manner," Ramesh said, “See, there is a saying - When rape is inevitable, lie down and enjoy it. That's exactly the position you are in.”Also Read | 'Really disgusting': NCW slams Cong MLA Ramesh Kumar's ‘rape’ remarkThe video of the incident, which went viral on social media, drew flak not only against Ramesh but also the Speaker and other members of the House as they were seen bursting into fits of laughter instead of protesting the inappropriate comment.The criticism led Ramesh to issue an apology on Thursday night, saying the remark was an “off-the-cuff” one.“I would like to express my sincere apologies to everyone for the indifferent and negligent comment I made in today's assembly…My intention was not [to] trivialise or make light of the heinous crime… I will choose my words carefully henceforth,” the Congress MLA tweeted.Several Congress leaders, including party national general secretary Randeep Singh Surjewala, distanced themselves from Kumar’s remark. “Congress party disapproves of the exchange of highly objectionable and insensitive banter between Karnataka Assembly Speaker and Senior Congress MLA in the House,” he tweeted.Other Congress leaders such as Anjali Nimbalkar and Sowmya Reddy also criticised Ramesh and other members of the Karnataka assembly for the remark.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/such-mindset-can-t-bring-change-jaya-bachchan-on-cong-mla-s-rape-remark-101639731703871.html
17-12-2021||India||India to become fastest expanding economy in 2021-22, says Amit Shah||Union Minister of Home Affairs and Cooperation Amit Shah said on Friday that India is likely to become the fastest growing economy in the world in the current financial year."We are reaching the pre-COVID levels. July to September GDP number has been at 8.4 per cent and I think in the year 2021-22, India is likely to become the fastest growing economy in the world. I will not be surprised if we touch double-digit growth," Shah said while addressing FICCI's Annual Convention & 94th Annual General Meeting.Shah said out of the 22 parameters of the economy, India has exceeded in 19 parameters, and this shows that the country has come out strong from the crisis. "Both manufacturing and service sector index has reached the pre-COVID levels. With the announcements of various packages and relief, our inflation is within the targeted range of 4-6 per cent as set by the government," he added.Highlighting the potential of the MSME sector, Shah said that till the time "we encourage and strengthen this sector we cannot address the issue of unemployment in the county". He also emphasized on the need of spending more in the R&D sector.The Home Minister pointed out that FICCI's Annual General Meeting was happening at an important juncture as on the one hand, the world is slowly coming out of COVID and on the other hand, India is celebrating Azadi ka Amrti Mahostav. The time has come for FICCI to come forward and increase its role in India's growth along with exploring new areas of opportunities, he noted.He further emphasised on the need for FICCI to identify, collaborate and prepare a roadmap of potential sectors for next 25 years when India will celebrate its 100 years of Independence. The vision of Atmanirbhar Bharat can be achieved when organisations like FICCI come forward and work with the government on various policies and prepare a roadmap on boosting the Indian economy in the next 25 years, he added.Uday Shankar, President, FICCI said that the all-round development initiatives of the government are transforming India and each step is bringing us closer to AtmaNirbhar Bharat. "Harnessing technology for greater transparency, improved competitiveness, and enhanced efficiency have been the hallmark of multiple reforms we have seen over the last seven years," he added.Sanjiv Mehta, President-Elect, FICCI said that this epidemic has accelerated the nation's digital journey and provided the much-needed impetus. "We should protect privacy but we should free data as a national asset," he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/india-to-become-fastest-expanding-economy-in-2021-22-says-amit-shah-101639732184520.html
17-12-2021||India||Govt decisions during pandemic to have long-lasting positive impact: Amit Shah at FICCI meet||Union home minister Amit Shah on Friday asserted that several policy decisions made by the government during the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) pandemic will leave a long-lasting positive impact on India’s growth and development. Addressing the annual general meeting of the Federation of Indian Chambers of Commerce and Industry (FICCI), Shah said that India is likely to become the “fastest-growing economy in the world.”"I won't be surprised if our economic growth accelerates to double-digit," he said, adding the inflation is within the “targeted range” of 4-6% as set by the government.In November, India’s retail inflation accelerated but remained within the medium-term target of the Reserve Bank of India (RBI) as consumers prices rose 4.91% from November 2020. The central bank expects retail inflation at 5.1% for the third quarter and at 5.7% for the final quarter in the current financial year.Talking about the issue of unemployment, the minister said that till the time "we encourage and strengthen” the MSME sector, “we cannot address the issue of unemployment in the county."During the address, Shah insisted that some decisions of the central government might have been wrong but no question can be raised on its intent. He said no charges of corruption have been levelled against the government in the past seven years and even critics would agree that India has witnessed a lot of changes since the BJP came to power in 2014."Ho sakta hai faisla galat ho, lekin niyat galat nahi thi (there could have been some wrong decisions but our intent was never wrong)," the minister said."Even critics would agree that the country has seen a lot of changes in the last seven years. No allegation of corruption has surfaced against our government," he added.(With agency inputs)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/there-could-have-been-some-wrong-decisions-but-amit-shah-at-ficci-meet-101639734035088.html
17-12-2021||India||E-way, farmers, women workers, Metro: PM Modi to visit UP 4 times this month||Prime Minister Narendra Modi will visit Uttar Pradesh, which is scheduled to hold assembly elections early next year, as many as four times between December 18 to December 28, people with the matter have said.PM Modi has already been to the poll-bound Uttar Pradesh, India’s most populous and politically crucial state, a number of times this month to launch big-ticket infrastructure projects, including the mega redevelopment project to rejuvenate the centuries-old Kashi Vishwanath temple complex in his parliamentary constituency of Varanasi just this week.The PM has already visited Uttar Pradesh six times in the past month and travelled to Gorakhpur, Sultanpur, Varanasi, Jhansi, Greater Noida and Balrampur to unveil projects. He was also in the state capital of Lucknow for the directors general of police (DGPs) conference.He will be in the state again on December 18 to lay the foundation stone of the Ganga Expressway, which will connect the western and eastern regions of the state, in Shahjahanpur. The expressway will connect Meerut to Prayagraj and will pass through 12 districts of Uttar Pradesh.Also read | PM Modi to lay Ganga Expressway foundation stone tomorrowThe Prime Minister will be in Prayagraj on December 21 and attend a programme to distribute certificates to 2.5 lakh women beneficiaries of various government schemes, including members of self-help groups (SHGs), proposed to be held at the Parade Ground.He will revisit his constituency Varanasi on December 23 to inaugurate several projects, including a safe city CCTV project, and lay the foundation stone of a dairy plant. Kanpur will be on his itinerary on December 28, where he will inaugurate the 9-km long first leg of the Kanpur Metro Project and attend the annual convocation of IIT Kanpur. Also read | Development in Kashi can be a roadmap for India: PM Modi at Mayors' ConferenceThe Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) is going all out in Uttar Pradesh, where it is hoping to come back to power, even as the ruling party at the Centre faces high-stakes elections in four other states early next year.On Friday, PM Modi even held a breakfast meeting with around 40 BJP lawmakers from Uttar Pradesh for about an hour. People aware of the details said the discussions were largely apolitical as the Prime Minister urged the members of Parliament to interact with senior leaders both in the party and in society and to learn from their experiences among other things.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/eway-farmers-women-workers-metro-pm-modi-to-visit-up-4-times-this-month-101639733715237.html
17-12-2021||India||Covid-19: Telangana reports two more cases of Omicron variant of coronavirus||Telangana reported two more cases of the Omicron variant of the coronavirus on Friday as the number of confirmed infections of the new variant in the southern state went up to eight.The latest Omicron cases in Telangana were found in two persons who arrived from Czech Republic and the UK, said the state’s director of health G Srinivasa Rao. “We traced the traveller from Czech Republic in Hyderabad, and the other traveller in Subedari area of Hanamkonda district,” Rao said.On Thursday, four cases of Omicron variant were confirmed in Telangana, including three who came from Kenya and one who arrived from Dubai. “So far, 6,764 international passengers from high-risk countries have been tested since December 1. Random testing of passengers coming from other countries is also being done,” the official said.Out of the eight cases traced in Telangana, two - one from the UK and another one from Czech Republic - are fully vaccinated against Covid-19. The six others aren’t vaccinated at all.“Based on local addresses, seven cases were found to be from Hyderabad and one from the Hanmakonda district. One case, that of a seven-year-old boy who hails from Kolkata, was referred back to West Bengal. He did not enter Telangana and took a connecting flight to Kolkata soon after his arrival here on December 12,” Rao said.He also said that community spread of the Omicron variant hasn’t been detected in Telangana so far.
17-12-2021||India||Conman who used to end calls saying 'Jai Hind'. 10 things to know about Sukesh Chandrashekhar||Conman Sukesh Chandrashekhar accused of ₹200 crore extortion, which is the latest of his series of criminal cases, has approached a Delhi court claiming he is being harassed at Tihar jail as he is always under CCTV watch, apart from being doubly locked. He is not allowed to speak to anyone which makes him feel as if he can't breathe, the conman said. Sukesh Chandrashekhar is a high-profile billionaire conman who duped people by impersonating government officials. Even when he was inside Rohini Jail, he operated his extortion racket by paying jail officials crores of rupees. Those jail officials have been taken to task and the Enforcement Directorate has filed chargesheet against Sukesh. But details of his crime, as they emerge, never failed to surprise.Here are 10 things to know about Sukesh Chandrashekhar1. Bengaluru-based Sukesh's entry into the crime world took place at a young age. From Bengaluru, he expanded his extortion racket to Chennai and then to other cities.2. Sukesh posed as an influential personality who has political sources. In fact, when he started dating his wife Leena who is also an accused in the extortion case, Sukesh told her he was a son of a big politician.How did conman Sukesh Chandrashekhar befriend actor Jacqueline Fernandez? Using Jayalalithaa, home ministry's name3. Sukesh Chandrashekhar is well-versed with technicalities and uses virtual numbers. According to reports, he has a spoofing app from which he used to make calls impersonating government officials. He even spoofed the landline number of Union law secretary so that if crosschecked, the caller actually comes across as genuine.4. Sukesh also knows how to evade phone tracking, the ED chargesheet said.5. When he was in Rohini jail, an entire barrack was vacated for him where he used his two phones freely. He also covered the CCTV cameras. From there, he called Aditi Singh, wife of one of the ex-promoters of Ranbaxy. He met Aditi in the jail itself when she came to visit her husband.6. The calls used to be made from virtual numbers and he used to end his telephonic conversation saying 'Jai Hind' to impress that he was a government official. He also spoke to Jacqueline Fernandez from the jail.7. When he came out on bail early this year, he reportedly booked a chartered flight to Chennai and booked a flight for Jacqueline and the duo reportedly met in Chennai. Jacqueline told ED Sukesh hid his identity from Jacqueline and told her that he is the owner of Sun TV and that he belongs to the family of Jayalalithaa.8. While Sukesh has been conning people since the age of 17 (now he is around 32), his first high-profile case was AIADMK's two-leaves symbol bribery case. He acted as the middleman for TTV Dinakaran and took money to bribe an EC official to obtain the two-leaves symbol for then Sasikala faction.9. In connection with this Dinakaran case, Sukesh has been in jail since 2017, but that has not disrupted the functioning of his extortion network. When he started out, he was caught and jailed in 2007 in Bengaluru but he did not stop. Instead, he expanded his network.10. Sukesh had over a dozen luxury cars that have now been seized by the ED. The agency also found ₹82.5 lakh in cash when it raided Sukesh's properties.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/conman-who-used-to-end-calls-saying-jai-hind-10-things-to-know-about-sukesh-chandrashekhar-101639733118792.html
17-12-2021||India||Suspend him before talking about women empowerment: Smriti Irani to Congress over Karnataka MLA’s rape remarks||Union minister for women and child development Smriti Irani on Friday joined a chorus of disapprovals as she slammed the Congress over the “shameful remarks” made by the party’s Karnataka legislator KR Ramesh Kumar inside the Karnataka assembly about rape.“It is extremely shameful that inside Vidhan Sabha, a Congress leader has given a shameful statement about women that 'one should enjoy while a woman gets raped',” news agency ANI quoted Irani as saying.“Congress should first suspend their leader before talking about women empowerment and raising slogans like "Ladki Hoon, Lad Sakti Hoon" in Uttar Pradesh,” she added.The Union minister was referring to Congress general secretary Priyanka Gandhi Vadra’s women’s outreach programme “Ladki Hoon, Lad Sakti Hoon” or “I am a girl, I can fight” and one of the slogans being used by the opposition party for the assembly elections in Uttar Pradesh.Also read | 'Really disgusting': NCW slams Cong MLA Ramesh Kumar's ‘rape’ remarkMeanwhile, several other leaders have also condemned the insensitive remarks by the MLA.Samajwadi Party’s Rajya Sabha MP Jaya Bachchan said the Congress party must take strict action against the MLA.The National Commission for Women (NCW) chief Rekha Sharma called his remarks “disgusting”. “If they sit in assemblies and speak like this how they must be behaving with women in their lives?” she asked.The Congress has, however, distanced itself from the remarks and said that the party does not approve of such comments.“Congress Party disapproves the exchange of highly objectionable & insensitive banter between Karnataka Assembly Speaker & Sr. Congress MLA in the House,” party general secretary Randeep Singh Surjewala tweeted.“Speaker as custodian & Sr legislators are expected to be role models & should desist from such unacceptable behaviour,” he added.Following the apology by Ramesh Kumar, senior Congress leader Mallikarjun Kharge said that the matter should not be “dragged”.“He should not have said this, he is an experienced politician, a two-time speaker but there is no appreciation for whatever he said about women. Since he has apologised, let us not drag the matter,” Kharge said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/suspend-him-before-talking-about-women-empowerment-smriti-irani-to-congress-over-karnataka-mla-s-rape-remarks-101639732330576.html
17-12-2021||India||Goa Elections 2022: No project without people's consent, promises AAP ahead of polls||Delhi Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal on Friday assured the people of Goa that no project will be carried out without their consent if the AAP forms government in the coastal state.Goa is slated to go for assembly polls early next year.ALSO READ | Congress releases 1st list of candidates for Goa polls before EC announcementKejriwal also welcomed Alina Saldanah, an MLA from Goa who resigned from the BJP on Thursday, into the Aam Aadmi Party (AAP)."I was left disillusioned with the BJP. It was no longer the party that belonged to the late Manohar Parrikar Ji. Now, I have come to the right party which is for the common man. I was opposed to some policies of the BJP that were not for the common man," she said in an online briefing.Alina Saldanha's husband Mathany Saldanha, who had been a minister in the Manohar Parrikar-led cabinet, died in 2012, following which she contested the by-election on a BJP ticket from the Cortalim assembly constituency and won.She had also won the 2017 assembly election as a BJP candidate. Alina Saldanha resigned from the state assembly as well as the party on Thursday,Kejriwal,  while welcoming her to the party, said she has come to the right place."I want to assure the people of Goa that no project will be carried out in the state without their consent. People have lost faith in the Congress in Goa while the BJP is itself is breaking up. The AAP is an honest party," he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/goa-elections-2022-no-project-without-people-s-consent-promises-aap-ahead-of-polls-101639728251779.html
17-12-2021||India||Congress leader KR Ramesh Kumar apologises for ‘off the cuff’ rape analogy that triggered outrage||BENGALURU: KR Ramesh Kumar, senior Congress leader and former Karnataka assembly speaker, on Friday expressed regret for his controversial rape remark in the assembly that has drawn sharp criticism, saying it was an “off the cuff” remark and his intention wasn’t to demean the prestige of the House.“If… the statements I made in the house, if any sections of the society, including women especially if they are hurt, I have no embarrassment to express my regret,” Kumar said soon after proceedings of the Karnataka assembly resumed in Belagavi, about 500km from state capital Bengaluru.In New Delhi where women and child development minister Smriti Irani flagged the Congress leader’s offensive comments in the Lok Sabha, the Congress disapproved Kumar’s remark without naming him.“Congress Party disapproves the exchange of highly objectionable & insensitive banter between Karnataka Assembly Speaker & Sr. Congress MLA in the House. Speaker as custodian & Sr legislators are expected to be role models & should desist from such unacceptable behaviour,” said Congress general secretary Randeep Singh Surjewala in a Twitter post.As the President of the Karnataka Pradesh Congress Committee, I am deeply saddened that such words were uttered by a Congress MLA. To all the women of Karnataka, I am sorry and I will ensure words like these are never repeated. https://t.co/xtvdoS1NpKKarnataka Congress chief DK Shivakumar also tweeted his condemnation. “To all the women of Karnataka, I am sorry and I will ensure words like these are never repeated,” Shivakumar said.Kumar’s expression of regret came a day after his ‘rape’ analogy to describe the plight of assembly speaker Vishweshwara Hegade Kageri drew strong censure from activists and women politicians. He did post an apology on Twitter a few hours earlier where he “expressed his sincere apologies” for his “off the cuffAlso Read: ‘Really disgusting’: NCW slams Cong MLA Ramesh Kumar’s ‘rape’ remarkOn Thursday when the assembly speaker Kageri wanted to wrap up the sitting by 6pm, there were many lawmakers who wanted to speak on farmers’ issues. The speaker said: “I am in a situation where I have to enjoy and say ‘yes, yes’. That’s it. This is what I feel”.Sharma, a former speaker chipped in: “See, there is a saying. When rape is inevitable, lie down and enjoy it. That’s exactly the position in which you are”.Many lawmakers laughed at the insensitive comment that rights activists underline, normalises the growing violence against women in the state and the country.Once Kumar completed his statement on Friday, the speaker disallowed other members including women legislators from raising the topic again.Kageri stopped Shashikala Jolle, Karnataka’s minister for Muzarai, Haj & Wakf from speaking any further on the issue. “Don’t escalate this. He has expressed regret,” Kageri said.He said that Kumar has expressed regret and women have always been kept with high respect and regard in the House.“Therefore the incident that took place here need not be escalated as a controversial incidentIt has ended here. So please nobody try to escalate it anywhere is what I ask,” Kageri said, swiftly moving on to move to the assembly’s listed business despite protests by some legislators, including Anjali Nimbalkar of the Congress.Before his statement in the assembly, Kumar posted an apology on Twitter, where his remarks triggered massive outrage; some of them from party colleagues such as Anjali Nimbalkar and Sowmya Reddy.“I would like to express my sincere apologies to everyone for the indifferent and negligent comment I made in today’s assembly about “Rape!” My intention was not (to) trivialise or make light of the heinous crime, but an off the cuff remark! I will choose my words carefully henceforth!” he said.I would like to express my sincere apologies to everyone for the indifferent and negligent comment I made in today’s assembly about “Rape!” My intention was not trivialise or make light of the heinous crime, but an off the cuff remark! I will choose my words carefully henceforth!Anjali Nimbalkar, who wasn’t allowed to speak on the topic in the assembly, later spotlighted the conduct of other lawmakers and the speaker when Kumar first made the comment. “But did the house apologise. What about the speaker & other members that were present & laughing….Each & every member of the house should apologise,” she said, questioning that the speaker’s advice to legislators “not to drag” the issue.But did the house apologise.What about the speaker & other members that were present & laughing.Don’t drag the issue is that it.Women legislatures were not given a chance to speak at all…Each & every member of the house should apologise. https://t.co/57SIDmAw7sTo be sure, this was not the first time that KR Ramesh Kumar has landed in a controversy over a distasteful comment on rape.He drew another analogy with rape in February 2019, when lawmakers repeatedly mentioned his name during a discussion on an audio clip released by then chief minister HD Kumaraswamy, months before he finally had to make way for the Bharatiya Janata Party’s BS Yediyurappa.“My situation has become like that of a rape victim. The rape happened just once and had you left it, it would have passed. But when a complaint is made and the accused is put in jail, his lawyers or others like Eshwarappa (then just a legislator and now BJP minister) probe on how it happened, the time and how many times,” Kumar, who was the assembly speaker at the time, said.The legislators present in the house had laughed at the comments then too. The next day Kumar blamed the media for highlighting his comment, saying ‘the media needed to put out such things because they also had a job’.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/congress-leader-apologises-for-his-off-the-cuff-rape-analogy-that-triggered-outrage-101639732793496.html
17-12-2021||India||3 Omicron patients in Gujarat test negative for Covid-19, discharged||Three cases of the Omicron variant of the coronavirus in Gujarat's Jamnagar city have tested negative for Covid-19 and been discharged from a hospital in the city, an official told news agency PTI on Friday.A Zimbabwe based non-resident Indian (NRI) aged 72, his wife and brother-in-law, who were found infected with Omicron earlier this month, were the first three patients of the variant in Gujarat."All the three Omicron patients have recovered from the infection. Their latest Covid-19 tests gave negative results, following which the trio was given a discharge from the hospital. The Omicron ward is now empty," Dr Saugata Chatterjee, nodal officer for Covid-19 at the G G Hospital in Jamnagar, told PTI on Friday.The 72-year-old man from Zimbabwe arrived in Jamnagar on November 28 and was diagnosed with a fever soon after. Upon being asked by his doctor to undergo an RT-PCR test, the man was found to be infected with Omicron on December 4, the first such case in Gujarat.The man was already vaccinated with both doses of a Chinese vaccine. On December 6, his wife, who also arrived in Jamnagar from Zimbabwe and his brother-in-law who lives in Gujarat city, tested positive for Covid-19.On December 10, the genome sequencing revealed the wife and the brother-in-law were also infected with the Omicron variant, which was first detected in South Africa.With the recovery of these three patients, the Omicron count in Gujarat has dropped to two. The two cases are from Surat and Mehsana.Meanwhile, the total number of Omicron patients in India is nearing 100 with the addition of 10 such patients from the national capital Delhi.According to Delhi health minister Satyendar Jain, the total cases of the variant in the Capital have climbed to 20. Delhi has now surpassed Rajasthan to be the second most affected state from Omicron after Maharashtra, which has 32 cases.(With PTI inputs)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/3-omicron-patients-in-gujarat-test-negative-for-covid-19-discharged-101639726908151.html
17-12-2021||India||Land broker goes missing, body exhumed after 5 days; woman arrested||Bihar police on Thursday exhumed the body of a 45-year-old land broker after five days of him going missing, officials said. Sampat Paswan was a resident of Rambag locality under Purnia Sadar police station.Officials said a woman, who confessed to the crime, has been arrested. The land broker went missing on Sunday. According to police, the matter involved some land dealing between Paswan and Asha Devi. Devi killed the broker after taking him into confidence and later buried him in her house. Sub-divisional police officer (SDPO) SK Saroj said “The body of the land broker was exhumed from the house of the arrested woman at Sarna chowk under Sadar police station on Thursday in presence of an executive magistrate, Janki Devi.”He said, “The arrested woman, 35-year-old Asha Devi, confessed her crime before the police” adding “The crime was committed in the land dealings between the two.” He said, “Police are probing the matter from all angles.”He said Sadar police lodged an FIR on the basis of the written complaint of Sunny Kumar, the son of the deceased. The woman allegedly purchased a plot of land measuring two katthas from Paswan and was getting a house built there. “But the broker was dilly-dallying in transferring the land in her name for about two years which compelled the woman to take the step,” police said. People familiar with the matter said the arrested woman has been involved in the liquor trade and the deceased used to visit her house to consume liquor. “The deal of land with the deceased was done in her friendship with the land broker and when he delayed in getting the land registered he was offered a heavy dose of liquor and later killed,” people cited above said. The husband of the arrested woman, Subodh Singh, is in jail in connection with the liquor trade. Recently, Anil Oraon, an LJP leader who was also a land broker, was killed and a woman was arrested in connection with the case.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/land-broker-goes-missing-body-exhumed-after-5-days-woman-arrested-101639729133620.html
17-12-2021||India||Proposed bill on Aadhaar-voter ID linking: Will it be mandatory? All you need to know||As the government is likely to push for an electoral reforms bill, which may get introduced in the ongoing Winter Session of Parliament, the provision of linking one's Aadhaar ID with the voter ID gets will get cleared, reports said. The Union Cabinet in its latest meeting on Wednesday is learnt to have cleared the bill on electoral reforms.Voluntary linking of Aadhaar and Voter IDThis has been a demand of the Election Commission ever since 2015. The EC had launched the National Electoral Law Purification and Authentication Programme to link the Aadhaar number with the voter ID number. It said the linking will weed out multiple enrolments in the name of one person.At that time, the programme was stalled as the Supreme Court ordered that the use of Aadhaar will remain optional to avail of welfare schemes.Following this, the EC modified its proposal and said the linking will be optional. If the bill is passed in Parliament, then also the provision will remain optional.Can Aadhaar and Voter ID numbers be linked now?Yes. On the portal of the Election Commission, there are options to link Voter ID card with Aadhaar. There are options to link both through SMS and phone as well.How to link Aadhaar card and Voter ID card1. Go to https://voterportal.eci.gov.in/2. Log in using mobile number/voter ID number/email ID if you already have an account. Or, create an account.3. Enter your details such as name, date of birth etc and search for the entry.4. An option of Feed Aadhhaar Number will appear where you have to provide your Aadhaar details.5. Once done, click on submit to link your Voter and Aadhaar card.The linking can be done by sending an SMS to 166 or 51969 in <Voter ID number> <Aadhaar number> format.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/proposed-bill-on-aadhaar-voter-id-linking-will-it-be-mandatory-all-you-need-to-know-101639728484835.html
17-12-2021||India||News updates from HT: PM Modi meets 40 lawmakers from poll-bound UP and all the latest news||PM Modi meets 40 lawmakers from Uttar Pradesh over breakfastPrime Minister Narendra Modi held a meeting with around 40 Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) lawnamakers from poll-bound Uttar Pradesh over breakfast on Friday. The discussions were largely apolitical, people aware of the details said. Read moreKarnataka Speaker who laughed over MLA's rape comment accepts apology, says 'let's not drag it'A day after senior Kartanaka Congress MLA Ramesh Kumar made a crass comment on rape in the state assembly by saying that when rape is inevitable, lie and enjoy, his party distanced from the comment and termed it as 'insensitive banter'. Read moreToo much of 'conflict' going around: Sourav Ganguly addresses potential arrival of Sachin Tendulkar in Indian cricketThe Board of Control for Cricket in India (BCCI) have already roped in Rahul Dravid as the head coach of the men's team before adding VVS Laxman as the head of the National Cricket Academy (NCA). Is the Ganguly era of cricket making its way back into Indian cricket? Read moreSpider-Man: No Way Home beats all other Spidey movies' Rotten Tomatoes, IMDb ratings. Here's a rankingSpider-Man No Way Home, starring Tom Holland and Zendaya, has registered the highest-ever scores on IMDb among all the Spider-Man movies. The film currently has a 9.2/10 rating on the platform, based on over 51,140 votes. The film also stars Benedict Cumberbatch, Jon Favreau, Jacob Batalon, Marisa Tomei among others. Read morePriyanka Chopra is THE style icon in 3 new sultry avatars for Matrix Resurrections promotion: All picsGlobal icon and actor Priyanka Chopra rarely disappoints with her sartorial choices. The star knows how to make bold moves with her looks, and each time, she proves that she is the ultimate style icon. Read more'Rename after Indian soldiers...': Rajnath's push for defence cantonments roadsDefence Minister Rajnath Singh said roads, buildings in defence cantonments named after Brits should be renamed. Singh said many roads and buildings are still named after officers loyal to the British crown. Watch here||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/news-updates-from-ht-pm-modi-meets-40-lawmakers-from-poll-bound-up-and-all-the-latest-news-101639725733915.html
17-12-2021||India||Dhaka: President Kovind inaugurates famed Kali Mandir, demolished by Pak army in 1971||President Ram Nath Kovind on Friday inaugurated the renovated Sri Ramna Kali Mandir here, 50 years after it was destroyed by the Pakistani forces in 1971, and described the temple as the symbol of the cultural and spiritual bonding among the people of India and Bangladesh.President Kovind is in Bangladesh on his maiden state visit at the invitation of his counterpart M Abdul Hamid to attend the golden jubilee celebrations of Bangladesh's independence from Pakistan in the 1971 Liberation War.The President and First Lady Savita Kovind offered prayers at the renovated temple.The temple was totally destroyed by the Pakistani Army’s operation codenamed 'Operation Searchlight' in 1971, targeting the resistance movement in the country.The temple was set on fire by the Pakistani forces, killing many people, including devotees and those residing in it.India supported the renovation of the temple.Addressing the Indian community after inaugurating the temple, Kovind said that he sees it as “a blessing from Maa Kali”.“This morning, I went to the historic Ramna Kali temple where I had the privilege of inaugurating the renovated temple. I look at it as a blessing from Maa Kali,” he said.“I have been told that the governments and the people of Bangladesh and India helped in restoring the temple which was demolished by the Pakistani forces during the war of liberation,” Kovind said.A large number of people were killed by the occupation forces, he said.This temple is the symbol of the cultural and spiritual bonding among the people of India and Bangladesh, the President said.“This marks an auspicious finale to my visit to Bangladesh,” he added.Hindus make up some 10 per cent of Muslim-majority Bangladesh's 169 million population.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/dhaka-president-kovind-inaugurates-famed-kali-mandir-demolished-by-pak-army-in-1971-101639724348912.html
17-12-2021||India||Open and ready to provide India more Rafales, says French defence minister Parly||NEW DELHI: France stands ready to meet any requirement for more Rafale combat jets from India even as it works to bolster the Make in India initiative by integrating Indian manufacturers into global supply chains, French defence minister Florence Parly said on Friday.Parly noted that China’s behaviour in the region is becoming “more and more aggressive”, and France seeks to find a “delicate balance” between addressing such behaviour and cooperating with China on issues such as climate change and trade.She made the remarks during a virtual conversation organised by Ananta Centre on India-France cooperation to defend a rules-based Indo-Pacific, before her meeting with defence minister Rajnath Singh. Defence industrial cooperation, including future collaborations and co-production, also figured in the discussions between the two ministers.“I am very happy that the Indian Air Force is satisfied with its Rafales and we are very proud that despite Covid-19, the 36 aircraft will be delivered on time according to the contract. It’s a real achievement,” Parly said, responding to a question on whether France would provide more Rafale combat aircraft to India.Also Read: 6 Rafale fighter jets with India specific enhancement to arrive in Dec-Jan 2022She described the use of Rafale jets by the air forces of both countries as a “real asset and strength” for bilateral cooperation, and said: “I am sure that there is room for new developments. We are ready to answer any additional needs [or] request that could be made by India,” she said.Parly, who is on an official visit to India to enhance strategic and defence ties, further noted that more aircraft will be needed for India’s new aircraft carrier. “We are open and ready to provide any other Rafales if this is India’s decision,” she said.India’s indigenously built aircraft carrier INS Vikrant is expected to become fully operational in 2022.India and France inked a ₹59000-crore deal for 36 Rafale jets in 2016. All the aircraft are being manufactured in France to Indian specifications. Parly attended the event marking the induction of the first batch of Rafales into the IAF in July 2020. France has so far delivered 33 of the jets.Parly also outlined France’s commitment to backing the “Make in India” initiative, especially for defence hardware. “France, more than any other country, understands the necessity of the Indian content and we are fully committed to the Make in India initiative as well as to the further integration of Indian manufacturers into our global supply chains,” she said.“Make in India”, she said, has been a “reality for French industry” for several years, particularly for defence equipment such as submarines.Responding to a question about France’s views on China’s assertive activities, Parly said: “It’s a delicate balance that must be found. China is a major country, there are areas where cooperation can be envisaged and developed. You probably remember that China played an important role when the Paris conference about climate change happened six years ago. And China is, of course, a major player to implement this fight against climate change.“China is also a partner for trade and commerce but we see as well that China is getting more and more aggressive in the region, and it is even more specific when it comes to the [South] China Sea.”She contended that France and India share the same views on international maritime law and freedom of navigation. “And most of the goods use these...maritime lanes. So these maritime lanes must remain free. We see that sometimes there are attempts to close this [South] China Sea and we want to make sure that this freedom of navigation is respected,” she said.France regularly deploys its warships in this region to “express our right to navigate freely in these waters”.Parly responded to another question on the potential impact on India-France relations of the AUKUS alliance between Australia, the UK and the US by asserting that France “is an Indo-Pacific country” since it has 1.6 million citizens in the region.AUKUS was created to build nuclear-powered submarines for Australia. This coincided with Australia cancelling a lucrative contract for French-made conventional submarines. The move angered France and affected the country’s ties with all three members of AUKUS.“So, we are an Indian-Indo-Pacific country and we want to develop a very close multilateral relationship with the neighbouring countries. Of course, India is at the centre of this strategy. We have developed a very good relationship with Australia,” Parly said.“Then Australia made its own decision. I will not comment on it. It is of course very disappointing for us but (it would) continue being a major partner...,” she added.The situation in Afghanistan, India’s concerns about cross-border terrorism from Pakistan, the standoff with China on the Line of Actual Control (LAC), joint exercises, maritime security and new projects figured in the third annual defence dialogue between Parly and Singh, officials familiar with the discussions said.Received French Minister for Armed Forces @florence_parly today and discussed bilateral defence cooperation, regional security, Indo-Pacific and France’s forthcoming Presidency of the EU Council.I reiterated India's commitment to further deepening our Strategic Partnership. pic.twitter.com/GbmLSKcHkkNEW DELHI: France stands ready to meet any requirement for more Rafale combat jets from India even as it works to bolster the Make in India initiative by integrating Indian manufacturers into global supply chains, French defence minister Florence Parly said on Friday.Parly noted that China’s behaviour in the region is becoming “more and more aggressive”, and France seeks to find a “delicate balance” between addressing such behaviour and cooperating with China on issues such as climate change and trade.She made the remarks during a virtual conversation organised by Ananta Centre on India-France cooperation to defend a rules-based Indo-Pacific, before her meeting with defence minister Rajnath Singh. Defence industrial cooperation, including future collaborations and co-production, also figured in the discussions between the two ministers.“I am very happy that the Indian Air Force is satisfied with its Rafales and we are very proud that despite Covid-19, the 36 aircraft will be delivered on time according to the contract. It’s a real achievement,” Parly said, responding to a question on whether France would provide more Rafale combat aircraft to India.Also Read: 6 Rafale fighter jets with India specific enhancement to arrive in Dec-Jan 2022She described the use of Rafale jets by the air forces of both countries as a “real asset and strength” for bilateral cooperation, and said: “I am sure that there is room for new developments. We are ready to answer any additional needs [or] request that could be made by India,” she said.Parly, who is on an official visit to India to enhance strategic and defence ties, further noted that more aircraft will be needed for India’s new aircraft carrier. “We are open and ready to provide any other Rafales if this is India’s decision,” she said.India’s indigenously built aircraft carrier INS Vikrant is expected to become fully operational in 2022.India and France inked a ₹59000-crore deal for 36 Rafale jets in 2016. All the aircraft are being manufactured in France to Indian specifications. Parly attended the event marking the induction of the first batch of Rafales into the IAF in July 2020. France has so far delivered 33 of the jets.Parly also outlined France’s commitment to backing the “Make in India” initiative, especially for defence hardware. “France, more than any other country, understands the necessity of the Indian content and we are fully committed to the Make in India initiative as well as to the further integration of Indian manufacturers into our global supply chains,” she said.“Make in India”, she said, has been a “reality for French industry” for several years, particularly for defence equipment such as submarines.Responding to a question about France’s views on China’s assertive activities, Parly said: “It’s a delicate balance that must be found. China is a major country, there are areas where cooperation can be envisaged and developed. You probably remember that China played an important role when the Paris conference about climate change happened six years ago. And China is, of course, a major player to implement this fight against climate change.“China is also a partner for trade and commerce but we see as well that China is getting more and more aggressive in the region, and it is even more specific when it comes to the [South] China Sea.”She contended that France and India share the same views on international maritime law and freedom of navigation. “And most of the goods use these...maritime lanes. So these maritime lanes must remain free. We see that sometimes there are attempts to close this [South] China Sea and we want to make sure that this freedom of navigation is respected,” she said.France regularly deploys its warships in this region to “express our right to navigate freely in these waters”.Parly responded to another question on the potential impact on India-France relations of the AUKUS alliance between Australia, the UK and the US by asserting that France “is an Indo-Pacific country” since it has 1.6 million citizens in the region.AUKUS was created to build nuclear-powered submarines for Australia. This coincided with Australia cancelling a lucrative contract for French-made conventional submarines. The move angered France and affected the country’s ties with all three members of AUKUS.“So, we are an Indian-Indo-Pacific country and we want to develop a very close multilateral relationship with the neighbouring countries. Of course, India is at the centre of this strategy. We have developed a very good relationship with Australia,” Parly said.“Then Australia made its own decision. I will not comment on it. It is of course very disappointing for us but (it would) continue being a major partner...,” she added.The situation in Afghanistan, India’s concerns about cross-border terrorism from Pakistan, the standoff with China on the Line of Actual Control (LAC), joint exercises, maritime security and new projects figured in the third annual defence dialogue between Parly and Singh, officials familiar with the discussions said.|#+|There was a focus on aerospace cooperation, and the Indian side noted French companies can collaborate with India firms or produce in the country under the Make in India initiative. Both sides shared their concerns on the situation in Afghanistan, the officials said.The two ministers reviewed military-to-military cooperation and discussed ways to increase defence cooperation in all domains, the defence ministry said. “Defence industrial cooperation was discussed with focus on future collaborations and co-production between the two countries,” it added.With France set to take over the presidency of the European Union from January, the two ministers decided to work closely on a number of issues.Parly also called on Prime Minister Narendra Modi.
17-12-2021||India||Development in Kashi can be a roadmap for India: PM Modi at Mayors' Conference||Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Friday took part in and addressed the All India Mayors' Conference in Uttar Pradesh's Varanasi via video conferencing. A total of 120 mayors from several states participated in the conference.In his address, the Prime Minister said that developments in Varanasi (also known as Kashi), can become a roadmap for the development of the entire country.“The majority of cities in India are traditional cities. They have developed traditionally. We can learn from such places about how local skills and products can be the identity of that city,” Modi said. Varanasi, the Prime Minister's Lok Sabha consituency, has seen a number of development initiatives, most recently the inauguration of the Kashi Vishwanath Corridor.Also Read| PM Modi, Yogi undertake midnight inspection of key development works in VaranasiPM Modi pointed out to all the mayors present in the conference that no stone should be left unturned to ensure a bright future and development of their respective cities.“We should believe in evolution. India does not need revolution today. We don't need to demolish our heritage buildings and reconstruct them, rather we need to rejuvenate them,” Modi said.The Prime Minister further urged mayors to take an initiative to bring their cities at the top of the cleanest city list.“I request mayors to not consider cleanliness as an annual initiative,” Modi said and asked whether mayors could organise a cleanliness drive among wards every month.Also Read| BJP holds events across India to mark Kashi Corridor’s unveilingModi also requested for a competition where the jury could choose which ward is the most beautiful. “The parameters for this could be cleanliness, aesthetics etc…” the Prime Minister said.The theme of the mayors' conference is “New Urban India”.“It has been the constant endeavour of the Prime Minister to ensure ease of living in urban areas. The government has launched multiple schemes and initiatives to address the issues of dilapidated urban infrastructure and lack of amenities,” according to a statement from the Prime Minister's Office (PMO) on Thursday, ahead of the conference.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/development-in-kashi-can-be-a-roadmap-for-india-pm-modi-at-mayors-conference-101639722529075.html
17-12-2021||India||49% of parents want offline classes to shut if multiple Omicron cases are reported in a district: Survey||Reopening of schools for in-person classes has received mixed reactions from all quarters and rising cases of the Omicron variant has only made things worse. Yet, a survey of 9,694 parents from across India has revealed that 49% of them want authorities to shut physical classes only if multiple cases of Omicron are recorded in a particular district, while only 27% feel that schools need to shut down immediately.“With many parents realising that Omicron could again shut in-person schools for several months, a high percentage of parents are keen that in-person learning is maximised till it comes to their district”, said Sachin Taparia, Founder, LocalCircles, acommunity social media platform enabling citizens and small businesses to escalate issues for policy enforcement and interventions. “With 5 times more transmissibility of Omicron, lack of outdoor air ventilation in most classes, the risk of spread in schools is real and therefore, school and district authorities must keep a close watch on the state of affairs and take timely decisions,” added Taparia.The survey received 9,694 responses from parents residing across 332 districts of India. 61% of the participants were men while 39% were women. These participants also include 1,557 parents from Maharashtra, who share different opinions. As per data revealed, nearly 63% of respondents in Maharashtra felt that in-person schools should shut down already due to rising cases, including 13% who felt such action should be taken by authorities even if a single case of Omicron is recorded even in nearby districts.“The decision of school reopening was taken without majority consent of parents, and even schools who don’t want to take chances are currently being forced to do so. While we know that the growth of children is best when in school but we cannot have this at the cost of our children’s health and lives,” said Ranjana De, parent and member of a parent association in Mumbai.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/49-of-parents-want-offline-classes-to-shut-if-multiple-omicron-cases-are-reported-in-a-district-survey-101639725414656.html
17-12-2021||India||Shutters down for banks as employee strike continues for second day||Lakhs of employees of public sector banks continued their strike on the second day on Friday as well to protest against the proposed privatisation of banks by the government impacting normal operation across the country.Shutters of branches across many parts of the country on Friday were down following the strike call given by the United Forum of Bank Union (UFBU), an umbrella body of nine bank unions including All India Bank Officers' Confederation (AIBOC), All India Bank Employees Association (AIBEA) and National Organisation of Bank Workers (NOBW).As a result, services such as deposits and withdrawal at branches, cheque clearance and loan approvals remains paralaysed due to the two-day strike ending later in the day.Public sector lenders, including State Bank of India, had informed customers that services in their branches might be affected due to the strike.However, the private sector, especially new generation private sector lenders, like HDFC Bank, ICICI Bank and Kotak Mahindra Bank, are working as usual.The strike is against the government's decision to privatise public sector banks which have been playing a vital role in nation building, (AIBEA) general secretary C H Venkatachalam said.AIBOC General Secretary Soumya Dutta said that about 7 lakh across the country are participating in the two-day strike.In the Union Budget presented in February, Finance Minister Nirmala Sitharaman had announced the privatisation of two public sector banks (PSBs) as part of its disinvestment plan.To facilitate privatisation, the government has listed the Banking Laws (Amendment) Bill, 2021, for introduction and passage during the current session of Parliament.The government has already privatised IDBI Bank by selling its majority stake in the lender to LIC in 2019 and merged 14 public sector banks in the past four years.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/shutters-down-for-banks-as-employee-strike-continues-for-second-day-101639720137062.html
17-12-2021||India||'Really disgusting': NCW slams Cong MLA Ramesh Kumar's ‘rape’ remark||National Commission for Women (NCW) chairperson Rekha Sharma on Friday slammed Karnataka Congress MLA Ramesh Kumar for his rape remark in the state assembly on Thursday.Taking to Twitter, Sharma said that it is extremely sad and unfortunate that there are public representatives who are misogynists and have a horrible mindset towards women.“It's really disgusting. If they sit in assemblies and speak like this how they must be behaving with women in their lives?” the NCW chairperson said in a subsequent tweet.Also Read| 'Off-the-cuff remark': Karnataka MLA sorry for ‘when rape is inevitable' commentDuring the ongoing winter session of the Karnataka assembly on Friday, Congress MLA Ramesh Kumar said, "There is a saying that when rape is inevitable, lie down and enjoy it. That is exactly the position in which you are."His remarks came when MLAs in the state assembly demanded time from Speaker Vishweshwara Hegde Kageri to discuss farmers' issues.It is extremely sad and unfortunate that we still have public representative who are misogynists and have horrible mindset towards women. https://t.co/e316ZMcGBl"Whatever you decide I will say yes. What I am thinking is that let us enjoy the situation. I can't control or regulate the system, my concern is about the business of the house, it has also to be covered," Speaker Kageri told the members of the assembly.To this, Ramesh Kumar made the insensitive remark and rather than condemning it, the members of the assembly including the Speaker were seen laughing.This is not the first time that Kumar has made such remarks. During his tenure as the assembly Speaker, he compared himself to a rape survivor.Also Read| Rape comment row: Cong says 'insensitive'; disapproves MLA, Speaker's behaviourAmid nationwide flak, the Congress MLA later apologised for the remark and said his intention was not to trivialise or make light of the heinous crime.Leaders of the Congress party including Sowmya Reddy and Anjali Nimbalkar have hit out at Kumar and other members of the assembly."The House shall apologise to entire womanhood, every mother, sister and daughter of this nation for such an obnoxious & shameless behaviour," Congress MLA from Karnataka's Khanapur, Anjali Nimbalkar tweeted on Thursday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/really-disgusting-ncw-slams-cong-mla-ramesh-kumar-s-rape-remark-101639720388298.html
17-12-2021||India||Ready to provide additional Rafale jets to India: France||France is ready to provide additional Rafale fighter jets to India if and when a request is put forward for the same, said French defence minister Florence Parly on Friday, ahead of the all-important 3rd Annual Defence Dialogue with her Indian counterpart Rajnath Singh.“We are open and ready to provide any other Rafale jets if that is India's decision,” the French minister, who is visiting the country to strengthen Indo-French strategic and defence ties, was quoted as saying by the ANI news agency. “We are ready to answer any additional needs or requests that could be made by India. We know that an aircraft carrier will soon be delivered. Aircraft are needed.”Parly was engaging in a discussion organised by the Ananta Aspen Centre entitled “How does France cooperate with India to defend a rules-based Indo-Pacific region?” The session was moderated by Dr Mohan Kumar, chairman of Research and Information System for Developing Countries and former Ambassador of India to France.Indo-France industrial and technological partnership, in line with Prime Minister Narendra Modi's ‘Make in India’ vision, is also expected to form an integral part of the talks today between defence minister Rajnath Singh and his French counterpart Florence Parly. According to those familiar with the developments, the talks will also cover aspects of counter-terrorism cooperation and wide-ranging Indo-French defence cooperation, including operational defence cooperation, particularly maritime security in the Indo-Pacific.There were several major Indo-France joint exercises this year, accompanied by the successful implementation of defence-related ‘Make in India’ projects, which includes the Rafale deliveries to the Indian Air Force (IAF) and the Scorpène-class submarines to the Indian Navy.India received as many as 32 of the Dassault Rafale multirole fighter jets promised by France this year. Noting the timely deliveries, the French defence minister said that the rest of the ten twin-engine aircraft will also be delivered on time despite the prevailing coronavirus disease (Covid-19) pandemic.According to the French embassy, Florence Parly's visit to India highlights France's engagement in the Indo-Pacific and the centrality of India in the French strategy.The French Minister will also detail the recently unveiled EU Strategy for Cooperation in the Indo-Pacific that brings a multiplier effect to this comprehensive approach for the region. Upon taking the presidency of the Council of the European Union on January 1, 2022, France will make the Indo-Pacific and India a key priority, the embassy said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/ready-to-provide-additional-rafale-jets-to-india-france-101639720404643.html
17-12-2021||India||Karnataka Speaker who laughed over MLA's rape comment accepts apology, says 'let's not drag it'||A day after senior Kartanaka Congress MLA Ramesh Kumar made a crass comment on rape in the state assembly by saying that when rape is inevitable, lie and enjoy, his party distanced from the comment and termed it as 'insensitive banter'. Party spokesperson Randeep Singh Surjewala said the part does not approve of the exchange of the highly objectionable and insensitive banter between the Karnataka Assembly Speaker and Ramesh Kumar. "Speaker as custodian and senior legislators are expected to be role models and should desist from such unacceptable behaviour," Surjewala said. Congress Party disapproves the exchange of highly objectionable & insensitive banter between Karnataka Assembly Speaker & Sr. Congress MLA in the House.Speaker as custodian & Sr legislators are expected to be role models & should desist from such unacceptable behaviour.'Really disgusting': NCW slams Cong MLA Ramesh Kumar's ‘rape’ remarkThe Congress MLA made the comment when Speaker Vishweshwara Hedge Kageri expressed helplessness after all MLAs demanded time to speak about the damage their constituency faced in the rain. "I have to enjoy the situation and say ‘yes, yes’. I should give up trying to control the situation and conduct the proceedings in a systematic manner," the Speaker said. It was in this context that the Congress MLA made the vile comment as he said, "See, there is a saying — When rape is inevitable, lie down and enjoy it. That’s exactly the position you are in."Facing outrage, the Congress MLA tweeted that it was an off-the-cuff remark and his intention was not to trivilise rape. He tweeted his apologies and said he will choose his words carefully. However, on being asked for an apology in the Assembly where the comment was made, Ramesh Kumar said, "If it hurts the sentiments of women, I've no problem apologising. I apologise from the bottom of my heart."Speaker VH Kageri said since he has apologised, there is no need to drag it further, news agency ANI reported.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/rape-comment-row-congress-says-insensitive-disapproves-mla-speaker-s-behaviour-101639721790791.html
17-12-2021||India||PM Modi meets 40 lawmakers from Uttar Pradesh over breakfast||Prime Minister Narendra Modi held a meeting with around 40 Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) lawmakers from poll-bound Uttar Pradesh over breakfast on Friday. The discussions were largely apolitical, people aware of the details said.During the interaction, PM Modi urged the lawmakers to interact with senior leaders both in the party and in society, and to learn from their experiences.He also highlighted the need to focus on sports events and wellness activities, and told the MPs to conduct sporting competitions across the state to encourage youngsters, especially women. According to a party functionary, the PM underscored the need to focus on the “sports economy”. The lawmakers were also asked to chalk out innovate ways to celebrate the “Azadi Ka Mahatosav” initiative.“Not all the MPs from the state were present. It was a meeting that was attended by about 40 MPs, mostly from the Lok Sabha,” said the party functionary. Several MPs from poll-bound UP are engaged in campaign-related activities and have not been attending the ongoing winter session of Parliament.The minister of state for home affairs, Ajay Misra ‘Teni’, didn’t attend the meeting. Teni is in the centre of a controversy surrounding allegations of his son’s involvement in the Lakhimpur Kheri violence against protesting farmers. The Opposition has been calling for his dismissal from government. According to people aware of the details, Kirti Vardhan Singh, Mahesh Sharma, Brij Bhushan Sharan Singh, Ramapati Tripathi and Lallu Singh are among those who attended the meeting with Modi.It was the fourth such interaction between PM Modi and lawmakers. He has already met with MPs from the Northeast, Madhya Pradesh and the southern states.
17-12-2021||India||Bird flu scare on rise in Kerala, mass culling of ducks in Kottayam, Alappuzha||A huge number of ducks were killed and burned in Kottayam district of Kerala after an alert for bird flu (H5N1 influenza) was sounded by the state animal husbandry department.“Killing and burning of ducks being done. Places like Kallara, Vechoor and Aimanam were affected by bird flu,” said Kottayam District Collector PK Jayasree, as quoted by news agency ANI.Bird flu scare was reported first in Alappuzha after many ducks and local birds in the district perished last week, forcing authorities to rush samples to the National Institute of High Security Animal Diseases in Bhopal. “The government has instructed the district collector to take necessary measures,” informed Animal Husbandry Minister J Cinchu Rani in the state capital Thiruvananthapuram.The district administration had already banned the use and sale of eggs, meat and manure of ducks, chickens, quails and domestic birds in the affected areas. Additionally, the district administration said that rapid response teams will be deployed in areas where the bird flu has been confirmed and preventive medicines will be distributed to the people.In Alappuzha and neighbouring Kottayam, duck rearing is an important business and there is high demand for eggs and meat of the bird, generally priced higher than poultry. Endowed with many backwaters and water bodies, Kerala is often hit by the avian influenza. Migratory birds from other countries are reported to be the main carriers of the virus.The district reported the viral outbreak last year as well but it was localised and contained. In 2016, at least 5 lakh chicken and ducks were culled in Alappuzha and Pathanamthitta districts to control bird flu.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/bird-flu-scare-on-rise-in-kerala-mass-culling-of-ducks-in-kottayam-alappuzha-101639716926535.html
17-12-2021||India||India sees slight fall in daily Covid-19 tally at 7,447; new deaths up by 391||India on Friday witnessed a slight decline in its daily tally of the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) cases after 7,447 new infections were reported in the last 24 hours, taking the caseload to 34,726,049, according to the Union health ministry.As many as 7,886 patients recovered and 391 succumbed to Covid-19 in the last 24 hours. With this, the cumulative count of recoveries and deaths climbed to 34,162,765 and 476,869 respectively, the health ministry data further showed.On Thursday, India had reported 7,974 cases, 343 deaths and 7,948 recoveries.Also Read| Covid-19: Home secretary chairs meet to review preparedness in UTsThe active cases in the country further declined to 86,415 and account for less than 1% of the total cases. The overall recovery rate from Covid-19, meanwhile, stands at 98.38%, the highest since March 2020, the Union health ministry said on Friday.According to the Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR), a total of 661,507,694 samples have been tested for Covid-19 so far of which 1,259,932 were tested in the last 24 hours.The cumulative vaccination coverage is nearing 1.36 billion with more than seven million doses administered to eligible beneficiaries in the last 24 hours, the health ministry also said.Of the total vaccine doses administered till now, 537,197,848 beneficiaries are fully vaccinated against Covid-19 and the remaining 822,798,419 have only received the first dose.Also Read| Omicron spread: Scientists identify 1 symptom that confirms presence of variantMeanwhile, India's Omicron variant tally has climbed to 83 after cases were reported from Delhi, Karnataka and Gujarat.In Delhi, four cases of Covid-19 were found to be infected with the variant on Friday while Gujarat and Karnataka reported one and five cases respectively.Currently, Maharashtra tops the list of Omicron cases in the country at 32, followed by Rajasthan at 17. The variant has also been detected in Andhra Pradesh, West Bengal, Kerala, Tamil Nadu and Chandigarh.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/india-sees-slight-fall-in-daily-covid-19-tally-at-7-447-new-deaths-up-by-391-101639715232907.html
17-12-2021||India||Rlys upgrades Mumbai-Delhi August Kranti Rajdhani Express train with Tejas rakes||Indian Railways has added Mumbai–Nizamuddin August Kranti Rajdhani Express train with upgraded Tejas rakes, making it the fourth Rajdhani to be upgraded with Tejas smart sleeper coaches, officials said. Railways added these rakes in Delhi-Mumbai Rajdhani Express, Agartala-Anand Vihar Rajdhani Express and Rajendra Nagar-New Delhi (Patna Rajdhani) Express. The first Rajdhani that was upgraded with Tejas rake in July 2021 was the Delhi-Mumbai Rajdhani followed by Agartala-Anand Vihar Rajdhani Express. With the use of Tejas smart coach, Indian Railways aims to move to predictive maintenance instead of preventive maintenance. “The introduction of this modern Tejas sleeper type train for the long-distance journey is another paradigm shift by Indian Railways for enhancing the travel experience for the passengers,” an official release from the ministry said.These new rakes have special smart features for enhanced passenger safety and comfort. The smart coaches will provide world-class facilities to passengers with the help of intelligent sensor-based systems. It is equipped with the Passenger Information and Coach Computing Unit (PICCU) provided with GSM network connectivity. PICCU records the data of CCTV recording, toilet odour sensors, panic switch and other items integrated with fire detection and alarm system, air quality and choke filter sensor and energy meter. “All these trains have been equipped with Tejas rakes this year, Nizamuddin-Mumbai being the latest (early this week). We continue to work towards bringing in the best for passengers,” a senior railway official said. According to media reports, the railways has decided to introduce smart coaches in all the Rajdhani express operating in the country in a phased manner. “Six cameras are fitted in each coach for live recording. These coaches also have CCTV cameras with day-night vision capability, facial recognition even in low light conditions and a network video recorder. All main entrance doors are centralized and controlled by teh guard. The train will not start until all the doors are closed,” the official added.“In case of fire, all coaches are provided with an automatic fire alarm and detection system. The pantry and power cars have automatic fire suppression systems in case fire is detected,” the officer added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/railway-upgrades-mumbai-delhi-august-kranti-rajdhani-express-train-with-tejas-rakes-101639718274171.html
17-12-2021||India||Naidu calls up Opposition leader in a bid to end impasse over MPs’ suspension||Rajya Sabha chairman M Venkaiah Naidu on Friday called up a senior Opposition leader in a bid to end the impasse over the suspension of 12 lawmakers from the Upper House, an official told HT. The development came two days after Naidu’s meeting with several Opposition leaders failed to make any progress. Naidu, keen to end the crisis that stalled proceedings in the Upper House of Parliament for the past two weeks, called up a senior Congress leader on Friday morning to discuss how to end the stalemate, said the official who wished not to be named. The telephonic conversation, which lasted a few minutes, is seen as a significant step towards restoring order in the Rajya Sabha with just six days left for the winter session of Parliament to wrap up. The Opposition leader who received Naidu’s call, the official told HT, has sought an all-party meeting to be chaired by Naidu with the aim of resolving the issue. The stalemate has continued with those in government seeking an apology from the suspended MPs, while the while the Opposition has ruled out any such move. Instead, they have been questioning the legality of the suspension. On Wednesday, Naidu’s meeting with Opposition leaders ended abruptly after the discussion took a rough turn. At the meeting, leader of the Opposition Mallikarjun Kharge, Congress deputy leader Anand Sharma, the party’s chief whip Jairam Ramesh, the Shiv Sena’s Sanjay Raut, and Rashtriya Janata Dal leader Manoj Kumar Jha together told Naidu that his predecessors, including Bhairon Singh Sekhawat and Hamid Ansari, used to conduct all-party meetings to resolve issues. An official present at Wednesday’s meeting, who wished not to be named, said, “The [Rajya Sabha] chairman observed that an all-party meeting will be called when it is appropriate. It implied that a meeting would serve no purpose when either the suspended MPs or leaders of their respective parties are not willing to reflect on their conduct and regret the same in an appropriate manner.” 
17-12-2021||India||Bhutan confers its highest civilian award on PM Narendra Modi||The country of Bhutan on Friday conferred its highest civilian award, Ngadag Pel gi Khorlo, on Prime Minister Narendra Modi. Jigme Khesar Namgyel Wangchuck, the head of state of the country,  pronounced Modi's name for the much-coveted civilian decoration and highlighted the “unconditional friendship” and support that India, under Prime Minister Narendra Modi's leadership, had extended to Bhutan over the years and particularly during the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) pandemic.Overjoyed to hear His Majesty pronounce Your Excellency Modiji’s @narendramodi name for the highest civilian decoration, Ngadag Pel gi Khorlo.https://t.co/hD3mihCtSv@PMOIndia@Indiainbhutan pic.twitter.com/HdZm5GozAR“Much deserving! Congratulations from the people of Bhutan,” the Prime Minister's Office (PMO) of the country noted in an official post on Facebook. “In all interactions, seen Your Excellency as a great, spiritual human being. Looking forward to celebrating the honour in person.”According to the ministry of external affairs, mutually beneficial economic inter-linkages between India and Bhutan have been an important element in bilateral relations. India continues to be the largest trade and development partner of Bhutan and has extended its assistance to several developmental projects in the country – such as the 1020 MW Tala Hydroelectric Project, Paro Airport, and the Bhutan Broadcasting Station.In addition, India is also a leading trade partner of Bhutan, with a free trade regime existing between the two countries. Bhutan was, in fact, the first country to receive the Narendra Modi regime's gift of Covid-19 vaccines, manufactured by the Serum Institute of India (SII). Earlier this year in January, the country received the first consignment of 1.5 lakh doses of the Covishield vaccine from India as a gift.Later, the Himalayan country also received an additional 400,000 doses of the Covid-19 vaccine from India, thus enabling the nationwide inoculation process against the pandemic. Bhutan's prime minister Lotay Tshering, expressing his gratitude, prayed that these gestures turn into boundless blessings for the people of India.“Pleased to receive additional 400,000 doses of Covishield, making possible the nationwide rollout of our vaccination programme,” Tshering had tweeted, tagging Prime Minister Narendra Modi. “The people of Bhutan and I remain grateful.”Last year, Prime Minister Modi had visited Bhutan to diversify partnership with the kingdom from the hydro-power sector and to enhance trade and linkages in space and education.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/bhutan-confers-its-highest-civilian-award-on-pm-narendra-modi-101639716774847.html
17-12-2021||India||'Off the cuff remark': Karnataka Congress MLA apologises for ‘when rape is inevitable' comment||After courting controversy over his rape comment in the state assembly, senior Congress leader and former Karnataka Speaker Ramesh Kumar apologised on social media and said it was not his intention to trivialise the crime. It was an off-the-cuff remark, the senior Congress leader said. "I will choose my words carefully henceforth!" he tweeted. "I would like to express my sincere apologies to everyone for the indifferent and negligent comment I made in today’s assembly about “Rape!” My intention was not trivialise or make light of the heinous crime, but an off the cuff remark! I will choose my words carefully henceforth!' Ramesh Kumar tweeted.  I would like to express my sincere apologies to everyone for the indifferent and negligent comment I made in today’s assembly about “Rape!” My intention was not trivialise or make light of the heinous crime, but an off the cuff remark! I will choose my words carefully henceforth!The video of the proceeding has gone viral on social media triggering outrage over the insensitive comment. While Ramesh Kumar was at fault for the comment, social media users pointed out that none of the MLAs in the House protested. In fact, the assembly burst into a peal of laughter.
17-12-2021||India||Parts of Delhi to receive light drizzle today||Some parts of the national capital are expected to receive light drizzle on Friday under the influence of a western disturbance, the India Meteorological Department said. However, this is unlikely to significantly impact the city’s air quality, which stayed in the ‘very poor’ category on Thursday.Delhi is also likely to record shallow fog on Friday, with maximum and minimum temperatures around 20 degrees Celsius and 8 degrees Celsius.Meanwhile, the air quality index (AQI) on Friday morning stayed ‘very poor’, with the hourly average AQI recording 367 at 7am. The city recorded an overall AQI of 368 (very poor), according to the Central Pollution Control Board’s bulletin on Thursday, marginally worse than 363 on Wednesday.Delhi recorded a relatively cold day on Thursday, with the maximum temperature settling at 19.8 degrees Celsius – three degrees below normal for this time of the season, even as the minimum temperature rose for the third day, touching 8.7°C.Thursday’s maximum was the lowest so far this season in the city, showed data. It was 19.8°C on December 3 as well.Scientists from the IMD also said the temperature is likely to fall below 6 degrees C from Saturday.RK Jenamani, scientist at the IMD, said this western disturbance is fairly weak, like the previous two in the first week of December, and will bring Delhi minimal rain.“It will bring snow to the mountains, but very little will change for Delhi,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/parts-of-delhi-to-receive-light-drizzle-today-101639712152169.html
17-12-2021||India||News updates from HT: FM to meet service, trade sector experts for pre-Budget consultations and all the latest news||Here are today’s top news, analysis and opinion. Know all about the latest news and other news updates from Hindustan Times.Pre-Budget consultations: Finance minister to meet service, trade sector expertsAhead of the 2022-23 Union Budget of India, finance minister Nirmala Sitharaman will on Friday hold a series of pre-budget consultations with stakeholders from various industries in two sessions. Read moreOmicron spread: Scientists identify 1 symptom that confirms presence of variantThe Omicron variant of the coronavirus has been spreading across the world at a remarkable speed. Read moreFrom today, Indian pilgrims to visit temple in Pakistan's Punjab provinceFrom Friday, Hindu pilgrims will begin their journey towards the Katas Raj Temples complex in Pakistan. Read morePakistan's opening pair of Babar Azam-Mohammad Rizwan pips KL Rahul-Rohit Sharma to script massive T20I world recordPakistan captain Babar Azam and his opening partner Mohammad Rizwan have continued with their stellar form in the T20I format to script a massive world record as a batting pair, going past the Indian combination of KL Rahul and Rohit Sharma. Read morePriyanka Chopra slams report calling her 'wife of Nick Jonas': 'Should I add my IDMB link to my bio?'Priyanka Chopra slammed a news outlet after it referred to her as 'wife of Nick Jonas'. Taking to Instagram Stories, the actor shared screenshots of the text and asked if she should add her IDMB link to her bio. Read moreMiss World 2021 temporarily postponed after several Covid-19 positive casesThe global broadcast finale of the Miss World beauty pageant that was supposed to take place in Puerto Rico was called off on Thursday after several contestants tested positive for Covid-19. Read moreFrench defence minister to meet Rajnath today; nuclear submarines on table?French defence minister Florence Parly, who is on a 2-day India visit, will hold talks with her counterpart Rajnath Singh today. Watch here||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/news-updates-from-ht-fm-to-meet-service-trade-sector-experts-for-pre-budget-consultations-and-all-the-latest-news-101639709646868.html
17-12-2021||India||3,500 road accidents last year due to potholes: Govt tells Parliament||The poor condition of roads in the country was back in the spotlight on Thursday after the ministry of road transport and highways disclosed that as many as 4,775 accidents occurred in 2019 due to potholes and 3,564 such accidents were reported in 2020.The ministry shared the information in response to a question in Parliament from Telugu Desam Party (TDP) lawmaker Jayadev Galla. Galla sought to know the number of road accidents recorded during the last two years that occurred due to poor maintenance of highways.The ministry noted that road accidents were occurring due to multiple causes such as over-speeding, using mobile phones, drunken driving, overloaded vehicles, defective vehicles, poor light, red-light jump, overtaking, bad weather, driver errors, wrong-side driving, defective roads, and cyclists and bikers’ faults.Galla also sought to know whether the government will introduce a road safety information database or a national road safety board for enforcing the road safety rules. The ministry said it will roll out the Integrated Road Accident Database (IRAD), which will advise the Centre and states on promoting road safety and adoption of technology for regulating traffic.During the monsoon session of Parliament earlier this year, Union minister of road transport and highways Nitin Gadkari had cited the same figures and underlined that the number of accidents due to potholes last year was the lowest in the last five years.Gadkari had told the Parliament back then that the total number of road accidents due to potholes in 2016, 2017, 2018 and 2019 stood at 6,424; 9,423; 4,869; and 4,775, respectively.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/potholes-sparked-over-3-500-road-accidents-last-year-govt-tells-parliament-101639711131500.html
17-12-2021||NA||Parliament highlights: Opposition holds ‘Jan Sansad’ at protest site; both Houses adjourned||The demand for resignation of minister of state for home, Ajay Misra 'Teni', has grown stronger as opposition parties continued their protest in the Lok Sabha on Thursday. Meanwhile, the opposition in Rajya Sabha is also protesting against the suspension of the 12 MPs demanding a revocation of the order.Amid a complete chaos, both houses of Parliament were adjourned within minutes of the proceedings starting on Thursday. The protests are expected to continue on Friday.Opposition parties in the Lok Sabha have been seeking a discussion over the Lakhimpur Kheri violence and the removal of 'Teni' after investigators said his son Ashish Mishra and others mowed down farmers in the Uttar Pradesh district on October 3, terming it a “pre-planned conspiracy".Meanwhile, the government is expected to table a bill on December 20 to amend the Prohibition of Child Marriage Act, 2006, raising the legal age of marriage for women from 18 to 21 years, making it at par with men.The winter session of Parliament started on November 29 and will continue till December 23.Follow all the updates here:Lok Sabha adjourned till MondayLok Sabha adjourned till Monday, 20th December amid uproar by Opposition MPs over the Lakhimpur Kheri incident. They also demanded the resignation of MoS Home Ajay Misra Teni.Suspended Rajya Sabha MPs hold ‘Jan Sansad’ at Gandhi StatueSuspended Rajya Sabha MPs hold ‘Jan Sansad’ at the Gandhi Statue in Parliament, calling their suspension “illegal”.Lok Sabha adjourned till 2pmLok Sabha adjourned until 2pm amid opposition protests.Opposition labels chairs at protest site on Parliament premisesOpposition labels chairs at protest site on Parliament premisesProtesting opposition members labelled chairs at the protest site. TMC leader Dola Sen said it’s a people’s parliament.Rajya Sabha adjourned till MondayRajya Sabha has been adjourned till Monday amid Opposition protest.Muslim League MP gives adjournment notice, seeks discussion over marriage age in Rajya SabhaIUML MP Abdul Wahab gives adjournment motion notice in Rajya Sabha to discuss the proposal cleared by Union Cabinet that raises the minimum age of marriage of women from 18 to 21 years.Congress MP gives suspension of business notice in RS over Lakhimpur caseCongress MP Shaktisinh Gohil gives suspension of business notice in Rajya Sabha to discuss Lakhimpur Kheri incident and demand immediate sacking of MoS Home Ajay Misra Teni.Congress MP and Leader of Opposition in Rajya Sabha, Mallikarjun Kharge also moved a adjournment motion in the House to discuss Lakhimpur Kheri matter and demand the resignation of MoS Home Ajay Misra Teni.Centre to introduce ‘Mediation Bill’ in Rajya Sabha Amid a continuous uproar, the Centre is set to introduce the 'Mediation Bill, 2021' in Rajya Sabha on Friday to promote and facilitate mediation, especially institutional mediation. The Bill, slated to be moved by Union minister Kiren Rijiju, seeks for resolution of disputes, commercial or otherwise, enforce mediated settlement agreements, provide for a body for the registration of mediators.It aims to encourage community mediation and to make online mediation an acceptable and cost-effective process.Protests expected to continue in Parliament todayWhile the Opposition in Rajya Sabha has been demanding a revocation of the suspension of 12 MPs, opposition parties in Lok Sabha have been protesting seeking a discussion on the October 3 violence in Lakhimpur Kheri.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/parliament-winter-session-2021-live-updates-101639710330360.html
17-12-2021||India||Amit Shah to address joint rally with Nishad Party in poll-bound UP. Know its significance||Union home minister Amit Shah will on Friday address a rally organised by the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) and its ally Nishad Party at 1pm on the Ramabai Ambedkar ground in Uttar Pradesh's Lucknow. The programme, named ‘Sarkar Banao, Adhikar Pao’ (form the government, claim your rights), is expected to bolster the ruling BJP's efforts to secure a scheduled caste (SC) status for the Nishads, who have proved themselves to be a useful electoral asset for the saffron party as was seen during the previous elections.“Home minister Amit Shah will be attending a rally of the Nishad Party on December 17,” the party's president Sanjay Nishad told the ANI news agency. “Chief minister Yogi Adityanath and other senior leaders of the BJP will also join the rally. An announcement regarding providing reservation to the Nishads, riverine community, is expected.”BJP Uttar Pradesh vice-president Santosh Singh has also confirmed that besides Amit Shah, several other top BJP leaders and state officials – including UP CM Yogi Adityanath and state BJP president Swatantra Dev Singh – shall be attending the rally.During his day-long visit to Uttar Pradesh, home minister Shah will also attend a “Nishad Samaj Jan Sabha” today; the event is scheduled between 2pm and 3pm – shortly after the rally.What makes the Nishad community significant to the BJP?According to political experts cited by ANI, the Nishad community has been a useful electoral asset for the BJP and its votes are expected to be decisive in around 160 assembly constituencies in eastern and central Uttar Pradesh.The BJP had formally announced an alliance with the Nishad (Nirbal Indian Shoshit Humara Aam Dal) party, led by Sanjay Nishad, in September earlier this year. The ruling party also expects to team up with several other small and regional parties to contest the upcoming 2022 assembly polls in the state.For its part, the Nishad Party launched a survey in various districts of eastern and central Uttar Pradesh in August to identify the seats on which Nishad party nominees will be in a winnable position in the upcoming polls, which are due early next year. The results of the survey, are said to have been submitted to BJP national president JP Nadda, who will now be finalising the seat-sharing formula for the elections.A total of 18 districts in Uttar Pradesh have a sizeable population of the Nishad community. They are Prayagraj, Firozabad, Ballia, Sant Kabir Nagar, Banda, Ayodhya, Sultanpur, Gorakhpur, Maharajganj, Auraiya, Lucknow, Unnao, Meerut, Mirzapur, Sant Ravidas Nagar, Muzaffarnagar, Varanasi, and Jaunpur.The BJP is dominant in about 20 Lok Sabha constituencies and 60 Assembly segments in Uttar Pradesh. The seat-sharing agreement has not been announced yet. In 2017, the BJP had given a total of 19 seats to its two allies-Apna Dal(S) and the Suheldev Bhartiya Samaj Party (SBSP). (With inputs from ANI)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/amit-shah-to-address-joint-rally-with-nishad-party-in-poll-bound-up-know-its-significance-101639699630806.html
17-12-2021||NA||Breaking News: UK sees record daily Covid-19 cases for 3rd straight day||Welcome to hindustantimes.com live updates platform where you can find breaking news from India and across the world. Find fast updates about the latest news as it breaks.Follow all the updates here:Covid-19 cases break daily record in UK for 3rd straight dayUnited Kingdom sees record number of new Covid-19 cases for the third consecutive day with 93,045 new infections.KMC polls: Calcutta HC dismisses BJP pleaCalcutta high court division bench dismisses BJP's plea seeking central forces for Kolkata Municipal Corporation polls, scheduled for December 19.Fire breaks out in building in ThaneA fire has broken out on the 13th floor of Kapurbawdi Krishna building in Thane district, four fire tenders are present on the spot: Thane Fire DepartmentKerala's Omicron tally at 7 after detection of 2 new casesKerala reports two fresh cases of Omicron variant, pushing the state's tally to 7.CAQM stays ban on construction works in Delhi-NCR.Commission of Air Quality Management stays ban on construction works in Delhi-NCR, allows those related to healthcare.Maharashtra confirms eight more cases of OmicronMaharashtra reports eight new Omicron cases, as its tally reaches 40. Out of these, 6 found positive in Pune, 1 each Mumbai and Kalyan Dombivali.Tajikistan foreign minister arrives in DelhiTajik foreign minister Sirojiddin Muhriddin arrives in New Delhi for an official visit, and to attend the 3rd meeting of the India-Central Asia Dialogue: Ministry of External AffairsCNG, PNG prices increased in MumbaiPrices of CNG and PNG to increase by ₹2/kg and ₹1.50/SCM in Mumbai from December 17 midnight.Condemn MLA's remark on rape, says Priyanka Gandhi VadraI wholeheartedly condemn the statement made earlier today by Sri. KR Ramesh Kumar. It is inexplicable how anyone can ever utter such words, they are indefensible. Rape is a heinous crime. Full stop: Priyanka Gandhi Vadra, Congress general secretaryCCI imposes ₹202 crore fine on AmazonCompetition Commission of India imposes ₹202 crore penalty on Amazon for providing ‘false information’ of 2019 Future deal.Sputnik V induces 'neutralising' antibody response to Omicron: RDIFSputnik V induces robust neutralizing antibody response to Omicron, further strengthened by Sputnik Light booster, performing 3-7x better than other (including mRNA) vaccines. Sputnik Light’s efficacy vs Omicron expected ~80% after 2-3 months: RDIFPunjab polls: BJP confirms alliance with Punjab Lok CongressAfter seven rounds of talks, today I confirm that BJP and Punjab Lok Congress are going to fight the upcoming Punjab assembly elections together. Topics like seat share will be discussed later: Gajendra Singh Shekhawat, Union minister and BJP's Punjab in-chargePM Modi holds interaction with leading private equity/venture capital playersPrime Minister Narendra Modi interacts with leading private equity/venture capital players. Talks to revolve around seeking suggestions to making India even more easier to doing business.Delhi-NCR schools to reopen in phased mannerCommission for Air Quality Management allows reopening of schools in Delhi-NCR in phased manner.India's Omicron case tally has gone beyond 100, says CentreIndia’s Omicron cases have gone beyond 100-mark with 101 infections in 11 states and UTs, says health ministry.‘Rate of Covid-19 vaccination in India highest among all countries’“India is administering Covid-19 vaccine doses at the highest rate in the world and the daily rate of doses administered here is 4.8 times the rate of doses administered in the USA and 12.5 times the rate of doses administered in the UK,” says Lav Agarwal, joint secretary, Union health ministryDelhi riots: SC asks Delhi HC to decide on plea seeking FIR against BJP leadersSupreme Court direct Delhi High Court to decide expeditiously, preferably within three months, on a petition seeking registration of FIR and investigation against BJP leaders for alleged hate speech at the time of Delhi riots in 2020.French defence minister meets PM ModiFlorence Parly, the French minister for the armed forces, calls on Prime Minister Narendra Modi.Delhi govt imposes ₹1 cr fine on NBCCCurrently, there is a ban on construction and demolition works in Delhi. Despite the ban, a construction project of NBCC was ongoing at Netaji Subhash Nagar. NBCC has been fined ₹1 crore for violating the ban and the construction site sealed: Gopal Rai, Delhi environment ministerPM Modi to make four visits to UP in next 10 daysPM Modi to lay foundation stone of Ganga Expressway in Shahjahanpur on December 18, will visit Prayagraj, Varanasi and Kanpur on December 21, 23 and 28 respectively.Telangana's Omicron tally at 8 as state detects 2 fresh casesTwo more Omicron cases surface in Telangana, tally goes up to eight.Prez Kovind concludes state visit to BangladeshPresident Ram Nath Kovind departs for Delhi from Dhaka after attending Bangladesh's 50th Victory Day celebrations as guest of honour.'He shouldn't have said this': Kharge on Cong MLA's rape remarkHe shouldn't have said this, he's an experienced politician, a 2-time speaker but there is no appreciation for whatever he said about women. Since he has apologised, let's not drag the matter: Mallikarjun Kharge, LoP in RS on Karnataka Congress MLA KR Ramesh Kumar's 'rape' remark pic.twitter.com/AYVRzLFx5VSenior Congress leader and leader of opposition (LoP) in the Rajya Sabha Mallikarjun Kharge on Friday condemned the ‘rape’ remark of party MLA Ramesh Kumar and said that Kumar should not have said this. 3 Omicron patients in Gujarat's Jamnagar recover from Covid-19Three patients of the Omicron variant in Gujarat's Jamnagar, have recovered from Covid-19 and were discharged from Delhi reports 10 new cases of Omicron, tally mounts to 20Delhi health minister Satyendar Jain said on Friday that the national capital has reported 10 new cases of the Omicron variant of Covid-19 and the tally has climbed to 20. Read moreDevelopment in Kashi roadmap for other Indian cities, says PM Modi at mayors' conferencePrime Minister Modi said on Friday that development in Kashi is a roadmap for other cities in India. Tamil Nadu helicopter crash: MP CM Chouhan pays last respects to Group Captain Varun SinghMadhya Pradesh CM Shivraj Singh Chouhan pays last respects to Group Captain Varun Singh at Bairagarh crematorium in Bhopal.The lone survivor of #TamilNaduChopperCrash was under treatment at Command Hospital in Bengaluru, Karnataka where he passed away on December 15th. pic.twitter.com/VKwOYlb7WoMadhya Pradesh chief minister Shivraj Singh Chouhan on Friday paid last respects to Indian Air Force (IAF) officer Group Captain Varun Singh at Bairagarh crematorium in Bhopal. Group Captain Singh was the lone survivor of the December 8 helicopter crash in Tamil Nadu in which chief of defence staff (CDS) General Bipin Rawat his wife Madhulika Rawat and 11 armed forces personnel were killed.Singh was undergoing treatment at Wellington's Military Hospital and was later shifted to Air Force Command Hospital in Bengaluru where he passed away on Wednesday.Cong MLA Ramesh Kumar evades questions over 'rape' remark in K'taka assembly#WATCH | Bengaluru: Karnataka Congress MLA Ramesh Kumar evades reporters' questions on if he will apologise for his 'rape' remark made in the state Assembly, yesterday. pic.twitter.com/kUS1IVnIUxKarnataka Congress MLA Ramesh Kumar, who is facing nationwide flak over his rape remark in the state assembly on Thursday, was seen evading reporters' questions on whether will he apologise.Bhutan confers highest civilian award on PM ModiBhutan confers the country's highest civilian award - Ngadag Pel gi Khorlo upon Prime Minister Narendra Modi. pic.twitter.com/MDFpOAN8i3Bhutan on Friday conferred its highest civilian award Ngadag Pel gi Khorlo upon Prime Minister Narendra Modi.Chhatarpur: 1-year-old rescued from borewell, MP CM congratulates authoritiesMadhya Pradesh chief minister Shivraj Singh Chouhan on Friday expressed happiness over the rescue of a one-year-old girl who fell into a 15 feet borewell in the Chhatarpur district on Thursday. Read moreIndia records 7,447 Covid-19 cases in last 24 hours, new deaths at 391India on Friday saw a slight reduction in its daily tally of the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) after 7,447  cases were reported in the last 24 hours, taking the caseload to 34,726,049, according to the Union health ministry. As many as 7,886 patients recovered and 391 succumbed to Covid-19 in the last 24 hours. With this, the cumulative count of recoveries and deaths has climbed to 34,162,765 and 476,869 respectively. Read moreParts of New Delhi to receive light drizzle todayThe India Meteorological Department (IMD) has said that some parts of Delhi are expected to receive light drizzle on Friday under the influence of a western disturbance. Read moreFire breaks out in building in Japan, 27 feared dead, says reportA fire broke out in a building in Japan's Osaka on Friday. As many as 27 people are feared dead, according to local reports. United States: Schools step up security in response to shooting, bomb threats on TikTokSchools across the United States have announced that they will increase security in their respective premises in response to TikTok posts warning of shooting and bomb threats.From today, Indian pilgrims to visit temple in Pakistan's Punjab provinceFrom Friday, Hindu pilgrims will begin their journey towards the Katas Raj Temples complex in Pakistan. This comes days after the Pakistan government gave visas to 112 pilgrims who wanted to visit the sacred complex. Read moreOmicron variant will 'spread much more rapidly', says US Prez BidenUnited States President Joe Biden said that the Omicron variant of the coronavirus will spread much more rapidly in the country and urged American citizens to get vaccinated or boosted. "The only real protection is to get your shot," Biden said on Thursday. Punjab polls: Amarinder Singh likely to meet senior BJP leaders in Delhi todayFormer Punjab chief minister Captain Amarinder Singh is likely to meet senior Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) leaders in New Delhi on Friday to discuss a possible seat-sharing arrangement for the upcoming assembly elections in the northern state, news agency PTI reported. Read moreModerna Covid-19 vaccine carries slight risk of non-serious heart problems: StudyA recent study published in the BMJ medical journal confirms that Moderna's vaccine against the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) carries a slight risk of usually non-serious heart problems. The study was done on the entire population of Denmark.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/breaking-news-updated-december-17-2021-101639701151193.html
17-12-2021||India||PM Modi to inaugurate, address All India Mayors' Conference today||Prime Minister Narendra Modi will inaugurate and address the All-India Mayors’ Conference on Friday. According to Prime Minister's Office (PMO), the Conference is being organised by the Department of Urban Development of Uttar Pradesh in Varanasi.The virtual inauguration will take place at 10.30am. The title of the conference is 'New Urban India'.At 10:30 AM tomorrow, 17th December, will inaugurate the All India Mayors’ Conference. This forum brings together Mayors from across India with the aim of sharing best practices in civic administration for the benefit of our citizens. https://t.co/5JDK8ds2bo"It has been the constant endeavour of the Prime Minister to ensure ease of living in urban areas. The government has launched multiple schemes and initiatives to address the issues of dilapidated urban infrastructure and lack of amenities. A special focus of these efforts has been the state of Uttar Pradesh, which has witnessed tremendous progress and transformation of the urban landscape, especially in the last five years," the PMO said in a release.Uttar Pradesh chief minister Yogi Adityanath and Union minister for housing and urban affairs Hardeep Puri will also be present on the occasion.PM Modi has been holding meetings with ministers, chief ministers and other leaders of the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) during the winter session of Parliament, and months ahead of assembly elections in some states.On Friday, he is also scheduled to meet around 40 members of Parliament (MPs) from poll-bound Uttar Pradesh, news agency ANI reported. He will meet the remaining MPs from the state in another meeting, the report said.So far, nothing has been confirmed about the agenda of the meeting. But during other meetings, the Prime Minister suggested to party MPs to engage more with people, beyond political activities, and shun VIP culture.PM Modi chaired a similar meeting with the chief ministers of BJP-ruled states when he visited Varanasi to inaugurate the Kashi Vishwanath Dham. He urged the chief ministers of 12 states to focus on development and last-mile delivery of welfare schemes, marking a major development push months before high-stakes state polls.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/pm-modi-to-inaugurate-address-all-india-mayors-conference-today-101639700460358.html
17-12-2021||India||PM Modi likely to meet BJP MPs from UP over breakfast, months ahead of elections||Prime Minister Narendra Modi will meet Members of Parliament (MPs) from Uttar Pradesh over breakfast on Friday, news agency ANI reported. Uttar Pradesh is a politically crucial state where elections are scheduled to be held next year.ANI further reported that at least 40 MPs are expected to be present at the breakfast meeting with the Prime Minister in New Delhi.This comes days after PM Modi inaugurated Kashi Vishwanath Dham in Varanasi, his parliamentary constituency, and chaired a meeting of the chief ministers of BJP-ruled states.The party has thrown all its might for the upcoming assembly elections, aiming to return to power in the state. Senior leaders, including PM Modi and Union home minister Amit Shah, are themselves campaigning for the party.The Prime Minister has made several trips to Uttar Pradesh in the last few months to give a boost to BJP’s campaign in the state. He also held meetings with chief minister Yogi Adityanath where the two leaders understood to have discussed several key issues.Shah too has been touring the state extensively. On Friday, he will hold "Sarkar Banao, Adhikar Pao" (make government, get rights) rally in Lucknow.Being organized by Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) and Nishad Party, the rally will be held at 1 pm at Ramabai Ambedkar Ground in Lucknow.The home minister appeared on Hindustan Times Leadership Summit (HTLS) earlier this month where he exuded confidence that the BJP will win the assembly elections in Uttar Pradesh with a huge majority.He also rubbished assertions that Samajwadi Party (SP), which is stitching up alliance with smaller parties, will pose a challenge to the BJP.The schedule of Uttar Pradesh assembly elections is expected to be announced in January. The BJP won the power in the state in 2017, bagging 312 seats. The party secured a 39.67 per cent vote share in the elections. The Samajwadi Party got 47 seats, the Bahujan Samaj Party (BSP) 19, and Congress managed 7 seats in the last assembly polls.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/pm-modi-likely-to-meet-bjp-mps-from-up-over-breakfast-months-ahead-of-elections-101639699146021.html
17-12-2021||India||Mizoram's Champhai hit by 4.2 magnitude earthquake||An earthquake of magnitude 4.2 hit Mizoram's Champhai on Friday, informed the National Center for Seismology (NSC).An earthquake of magnitude 4.2 occurred around 1:43 am at 56km SE of Champhai, Mizoram: National Center for SeismologyThe earthquake occurred around 1:43 am at 56 km Southeast of Champhai at a depth of 60 Km."Earthquake of Magnitude: 4.2, Occurred on 17-12-2021, 01:43:20 IST, Lat: 23.14 and Long: 93.76, Depth: 60 Km, Location: 56km SE of Champhai, Mizoram, India," tweeted NSC.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/mizorams-champhai-hit-by-4-2-magnitude-earthquake-101639697090945.html
17-12-2021||India||Despite 8% dip in cost, oil prices remain unchanged||State-run fuel retailers have kept basic prices of petrol and diesel unchanged at ₹47.93 per litre and ₹49.33 respectively since November 4 despite over 8% slump in their average crude import cost.According to official data, public sector oil marketing companies (OMCs) have neither raised nor reduced petrol and diesel rates in last one-and-a-half months even as international oil prices remained volatile with benchmark Brent crude plunging below $70 a barrel on November 30 from the period’s peak at $84.78 on November 9. State-run fuel retailers have kept basic prices of petrol and diesel unchanged at ₹47.93 per litre and ₹49.33 respectively since November 4 despite over 8% slump in their average crude import cost.According to official data, public sector oil marketing companies (OMCs) have neither raised nor reduced petrol and diesel rates in last one-and-a-half months even as international oil prices remained volatile with benchmark Brent crude plunging below $70 a barrel on November 30 from the period’s peak at $84.78 on November 9.|#+|Technically, daily changes in retail prices of petrol and diesel have been paused from November 3, the day the Union government announced its decision to reduce central excise on the two fuels, effective from the next day. The reason is to save people from extreme volatility, two executives working in different oil firms said on condition of anonymity.Even in rupee term, OMCs’ average crude oil import cost (factoring in rupee-dollar exchange rate), which was ₹6,234.94 a barrel on November 10, fell sharply by about 12% to ₹5,490.79 on December 15, but firms kept basic prices of petrol and diesel static unchanged November 4.The oil ministry and three state-run fuel retailers – Indian Oil Corporation (IOC), Bharat Petroleum Corporation Ltd (BPCL) and Hindustan Petroleum Corporation Ltd (HPCL) – did not respond to an email query on the matter.The government, however, told both houses of the Parliament that oil companies align pump prices of fuel with their respective international benchmarks every day transparently. “Public Sector OMCs have implemented daily revision of retail selling price (RSP) of petrol and diesel in the entire country with effect from June 16, 2017. Daily pricing has been introduced to bring more transparency... to benefit consumers,” minister of state for petroleum Rameshwar Teli told the Lok Sabha on December 9.Four days later Union minister for petroleum and natural gas Hardeep Singh Puri, in a written reply to a Rajya Sabha question, said prices of petrol and diesel have been market-determined and public sector OMCs take “appropriate decision” on pricing in line with their international product prices, exchange rate, tax structure, freight and other costs.“Effective June 16, 2017, daily pricing of petrol and diesel has been implemented,” he said.“Since oil prices have fallen from $84 per barrel in November 2021 to about $72 per barrel now, India’s oil marketing companies should pass on the benefit of reduced oil prices on daily basis in order to give benefit to the consumers as also to facilitate higher economic growth,” SC Sharma, a former officer on special duty at erstwhile Planning Commission said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/despite-8-dip-in-cost-oil-prices-remain-unchanged-101639695991133.html
17-12-2021||India||Woman who took 32 bullets for nation ignored by govt: Rahul||A political row erupted on Thursday after Congress leader Rahul Gandhi attacked the government for allegedly ignoring former prime minister Indira Gandhi’s role in the 1971 Bangladesh liberation war, even as the country celebrated the 50th anniversary of victory over Pakistan.“The woman took 32 bullets for this country, but her name is not there even on the invitations,” Gandhi said, referring to the government’s official function in New Delhi to celebrate the 1971 War, which led to the birth of Bangladesh.“This is because the government is afraid of truth. But I don’t care as I know what she (Indira Gandhi) has done for this country,” he said while addressing a rally at Dehradun’s Parade Ground to launch the Congress campaign for the 2022 Uttarakhand assembly elections.However, the ruling Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) rejected Gandhi’s allegations, saying the day was not about remembering any politician, but soldiers.BJP Uttarakhand unit vice-president Devendra Bhasin said, “The day is not about politicians but the bravery and sacrifices made by soldiers on the ground, which made victory possible in the 1971 war.” “That is why the BJP is focussing on soldiers and not politicians,” he added.Stressing that India won the war in 1971 in just 13 days as the country was united and fought collectively, Gandhi alleged that now India was being divided and weakened. “Brothers are being made to fight each other. Weak are being killed. The government is operating for just 2 to 3 capitalists,” he claimed.Gandhi also felicitated war veterans and ex-servicemen in recognition of their contribution to the country. Huge cut-outs and banners of India’s first chief of defence staff (CDS) General Bipin Rawat — who died recently along with 12 others in a chopper crash in Tamil Nadu’s Coonoor — were put up in the rally.General Rawat hailed from Uttarakhand.However, BJP leader Devendra Bhasin objected to the use of cut-outs, alleging the Congress was misusing General Rawat’s legacy for electoral advantage. “I just want to ask them, who had called Gen Bipin Rawat a goonda; who was dancing in Goa when everyone was mourning his loss; who had stopped one rank, one pension of security forces; who had asked for proof of surgical strikes,” he said.Recalling the martyrdom of his father and grandmother, the former Congress chief said he has relation of sacrifice with the people of Uttarakhand. “Only those who have given their blood, like you, will understand this relation of sacrifice (kurbani ka rishta). Those who haven’t made such sacrifices can’t understand this. Uttarakhand has given maximum blood for this country and it will keep doing so in future also,” he said.Listing unemployment as the biggest problem of Uttarakhand, the Lok Sabha MP from Wayanad in Kerala said, the problem can only be solved when small and middle-level traders, shopkeepers and farmers are strengthened. He alleged that the BJP government has “destroyed these sections by just working for two to three capitalists, who it wants to benefit at the behest of these sections”.
17-12-2021||India||Zydus’s needle-free Covid vaccine may be introduced next week||The Zydus Healthcare’s anti-coronavirus disease vaccine, ZyCoV-D, could be introduced in the national vaccination programme by next week, according to people familiar with the development.“The training of vaccinators who would be administering the shots is nearly complete and the vaccine could be introduced very soon; likely by next week,” said a person aware of the matter on condition of anonymity.ZyCoV-D, which is world’s first DNA-based and needle-free Covid-19 vaccine, has been approved for emergency use in people 12 years of age and above. However, in the absence of any policies in place on vaccinating children, the Union government has decided to first use the vaccine in adults.According to the company, the Centre has placed an order of 10 million vaccine doses, at ₹265 per dose. Additionally, ₹93 will be charged as the cost of the needle-free intradermal applicator, which is required to administer the shot. The supplies are being released in a phased manner, according to people familiar with the matter.ZyCoV-D, which is only the second indigenously developed Covid-19 vaccine besides Covaxin, will be initially used in districts of seven states that have low first dose coverage before being rolled out nationwide, one of the people cited above said. The seven states are Bihar, Jharkhand, Maharashtra, Punjab, Tamil Nadu, Uttar Pradesh and West Bengal.The Central Drugs Laboratory in Kasauli, Himachal Pradesh, has cleared for market release close to 250,000 doses of the Zydus vaccine after putting the vials through stringent quality tests.On August 20, the Drugs Controller General of India granted emergency use authorisation to ZyCoV-D but it is yet to be included in the vaccination drive.Once rolled out, ZyCoV-D will become the third vaccine being used in the national vaccination programme, along with Covishield and Covaxin.As on December 16, 87.5% of the eligible population has received at least one dose of the Covid-19 vaccine while 57.1% has been fully vaccinated.
17-12-2021||India||Delhi-Howrah train route affected due to protest on tracks in Uttar Pradesh||Trains on the Delhi-Howrah route were affected after a group of people belonging to the Aheriya community blocked the railway tracks not allowing trains to operate in Uttar Pradesh. According to senior railway officers, 14 trains were stalled due to the agitation that began at 1.30 pm and ended at about 7.40 pm. Bobby, one of the members of the community, however said that his community members had blocked the tracks since 11am on Thursday.“Our community members have been on ‘dharna’ in Lucknow for over a month and our only aim is to meet the chief minister of Uttar Pradesh. However, we have not been allowed to do so. Hence we decided to stage a protest by not allowing trains to run on one of the busiest routes of the railways.” According to railway officials around 300 trains operate on the Delhi-Howrah route. “Few of them are not operating due to Covid-19 restrictions,” the officer clarified. A statement from the North Central Railways read, “This is to inform that the Delhi-Howrah route is affected due to ongoing agitation between Hathras and Pora stations. Trains are regulated at different stations. The Civil Administration is trying it’s best to persuade the agitators. Inconvenience caused is deeply regretted.”Pramod Kumar, another member of the community said, “Nearly 5000 of our members have blocked the railway tracks since morning but no government or railway officials have reached the spot to talk to us. Our only aim is to get CM Yogi Adityanath’s appointment so that we can put forth our reservation concerns.” Community members from Western Uttar Pradesh, particularly from Hathras and Aligarh participated in the agitation. The community members who spoke to HT, clarified that they aimed to continue their agitation until the state government of UP assured them of an appointment with the CM. “No trains were cancelled but over a dozen of them were delayed due to the protest. However, the agitation got over at 7.40 pm after which normal movement of trains resumed,” the statement read.“We have decided to stop our agitation temporarily, looking at the issues faced by the passengers on board and also because we have been told that we will be able to meet the CM. However, we have decided to block the tracks on Friday too,” Kumar said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/delhihowrah-train-route-affected-due-to-protest-on-tracks-in-uttar-pradesh-101639687909190.html
17-12-2021||India||House report on data bill tabled, Opposition flags concern||The report of the joint parliamentary committee studying the proposed data protection law was tabled in both houses of parliament on Thursday, after almost two years of deliberations, but continued to cause concern among civil society members and opposition leaders that the proposals will be inadequate in protecting individual privacy and give the state far-reaching powers.The report carries several suggestions that in effect give the government a wider berth on obligations and private companies a stricter guardrail to follow, as reported by HT on November 23, while also suggesting new mechanisms to regulate social media companies.Among some of the new proposals is a plan to “age-gate” content and access to digital services for children, requiring companies to appoint guardians of data and needing those that deal primarily with services for children to to register themselves with the government.The report will likely be slotted for a discussion, following which the government will re-introduce the bill — the recommendations are not binding.The JPC was set up in 2019 after parliamentarians were divided over several provisions of the personal data protection bill, which was meant to put a legal shape to the Right to Privacy that was made a fundamental right by the Supreme Court in 2017. The law will cover the rights people will have over their data and obligations for those that deal with such data, which will impact the industry at large.Seven of the 30 members in the committee submitted dissent notes, saying the proposals give “unbridled power” to the government while creating a differentiating in the obligations of private and government entities.According to an industry expert who asked not to be named, the recommendation around age-gating will only act as a deterrent. “Children use social media platforms for a lot of different, including to access educational material,” the person said. “This has been a concern that has been highlighted to the committee.”Experts said the committee did not address the significant concerns that arose with the bill that was introduced in 2019.“The committee has not done enough to tighten restrictions on the government. The committee has added “reasonable and necessary” to Clause 35, but it is no safeguard and can be easily circumvented. The committee should have recommended the deletion of this clause in entirety,” said Raman Jit Singh Chima, Asia-Pacific policy director at Access Now, a global tech policy think tank.“The exemptions provided are exemplary as compared to data laws internationally. There seems to also be a degree to which industry lobbying has worked, they have diluted the penalty, which is remarkable since even the Competition Commission of India says a percentage of the global turnover has to be paid. Even the [European Union law] GDPR has such provisions,” he added.Chima also said the panel’s proposal to treat social media companies as publishers and determine their liability “is a first for any data protection law”.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/house-report-on-data-bill-tabled-opposition-flags-concern-101639686116946.html
17-12-2021||India||Tributes pour in for brave heroes of 1971||Leaders across political parties and current and former servicemen on Thursday hailed the sacrifices of soldiers in the 1971 war, which liberated Bangladesh, as the country celebrates the golden jubilee celebration of India’s triumph over Pakistan.On the occasion of Vijay Diwas, martyrs of the 1971 war were remembered in a memorial service in Kolkata. Wreaths were laid by war veterans, next of kin of those who fought for the country, Army commanders of the three services and Lt General Manoj Pande, General Officer Commanding-in-Chief, Eastern Command.As buglers sounded the ‘Last Post’ and ‘Rouse’ from the rampart behind the magnificent edifice of the memorial at Fort William, the headquarters of the Army’s Eastern Command, participants observed two-minute silence to pay homage to the soldiers who made the supreme sacrifice in the war.Former Chief of Air Staff, Air Chief Marshall (retd) Arup Raha, Lt General (retd) JR Mukerji and Lt General (retd) Praveen Bakshi were among the retired officers who paid floral tributes at the Smarak. “On behalf of the grateful nation, saluted the incomparable valour of the brave soldiers by paying floral tributes at ‘Tanot Vijay Stambh’, a symbol of India’s victory in the 1965 and 1971 wars and the amazing valour of our brave soldiers,” Union minister Amit Shah tweeted. Delhi chief minister and Aam Aadmi Party national convener Arvind Kejriwal saluted the soldiers of the country on the day. “On this day in 1971, the bravery and valour of the Indian Army brought Pakistan to its knees. On Vijay Diwas, I salute all the brave soldiers of the country whose bravery and valour make us proud,” Kejriwal said in a tweet in Hindi.Tripura chief minister Biplab Kumar Deb, who met Bangladesh assistant high commissioner, Mohammad Jobayed Hosen, in Agartala, said he “salutes all the bravehearts of the Indian armed forces who fought the enemy and liberated a new nation”. Hosen said, “Bangladesh government is keen to identify all the places that are related to Liberation war. The issue has been raised during a meeting with a Tripura minister. It appears that there are more than twenty such places here.”(With agency inputs)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/tributes-pour-in-for-brave-heroes-of-1971-101639684744369.html
17-12-2021||India||Group Captain Varun Singh to be cremated in Bhopal today||The mortal remains of Group Captain Varun Singh arrived in Bhopal on Thursday. He was the lone survivor of the IAF helicopter crash that occurred on December 8 in which 13 people died including chief of defence staff (CDS) General Bipin Rawat. Singh succumbed to his injuries on Wednesday.His mother Uma Singh retained her composure while paying tribute to her son and said her daughter in-law Geetanjali Singh, the late IAF officer’s wife, was a brave woman.Madhya Pradesh chief minister Shivraj Singh Chouhan paid homage by laying a wreath at the State Hangar. Chouhan also met the family members of the IAF officer and consoled them. The body was later taken to his residence.The CM said that the nation could never forget the valour of the officer. He would continue to live forever in the memories of the state and the countrymen, Chouhan said.The CM also announced that an institution or a building will be named after the IAF officer in consultation with his family. “An ex-gratia of ₹1 crore will be given to his family. Along with this, a government job will be provided to a family member,” the CM added.Public representatives and officers laid wreaths and paid tribute to Group Captain Varun Singh on Thursday. Medical Education minister Vishwas Sarang and MLA Rameshwar Sharma, Collector Avinash Lavania, joint commissioner of police Irshad Wali along with officers of military and paramilitary forces paid tributes.The last rites of Group Captain Varun Singh will be performed with full military honours on Friday at a crematorium in Bairagarh.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/group-captain-varun-singh-to-be-cremated-in-bhopal-today-101639685029021.html
17-12-2021||India||Vijay Diwas: The battles that won the war||Just around the time Prime Minister Narendra Modi led the country in paying homage to the heroes of the 1971 India-Pakistan war at the National War Memorial at India Gate, 70-year-old Mukesh Khetarpal stood in front of his brother’s bust and paid tribute with folded hands to one of India’s best known military heroes in a solemn ceremony at a cantonment 500km away in Punjab.The celebration at Mamun in Pathankot to mark the golden jubilee of the 1971 victory over Pakistan and honour Second Lieutenant Arun Khetarpal, one of India’s youngest soldiers to be awarded the hallowed Param Vir Chakra, blended pain and glory, and was a moving throwback to their childhood days for Mukesh, the younger brother.Khetarpal is among the only 21 Indian soldiers decorated with the PVC, India’s highest wartime military honour, for their heroism in independent India’s history. Arun was only 21, and commissioned in Poona Horse only six months before the war began, when he destroyed seven Pakistani Patton tanks in the Battle of Basantar fought exactly 50 years ago on December 16, 1971, making it a glorious and unforgettable chapter in India’s military history.“Arun’s glorious past is what we remember. The loss still hurts but there’s tremendous pride too. It’s humbling to see that even after 50 years, and that’s a long stretch of time, that Arun is still remembered for what he did. He was my parents’ favourite son,” said Mukesh.Pakistan suffered huge losses in the battle fought on the banks of Basantar river in enemy territory -- 50 Patton tanks were decimated and its eight (Independent) Armoured Brigade was wiped out. Arun, commanding a Centurion tank named Fama Gusta JX202, single-handedly inflicted maximum damage on the enemy. “I feel lucky to be alive. The tank is a part of my destiny. But whenever I see the Fama Gusta, I remember Arun saheb, my commander, who fought like a tiger,” Khetarpal’s gunner Nathu Singh told this correspondent in an earlier interview.Khetarpal breathed his last in Singh’s arms.The Black Arrow Brigade, which included Poona Horse, spearheaded the Indian Army’s assault. It won 79 gallantry awards including one PVC, five Maha Vir Chakras and 12 Vir Chakras. The brigade commander, Brigadier AS Vaidya, was decorated with MVC, and rose to become the army chief....the tough get goingThe 1971 war, which ended with the liberation of Bangladesh, gave India a new generation of heroes including Major Hoshiar Singh, Flying Officer Nirmal Jit Singh Sekhon, Captain MNR Samant and Lance Naik Albert Ekka, their heroism and accomplishments still inspiring not only the country’s soldiers but millions of Indians who grew up reading their unbelievable stories of courage and sacrifice.Sekhon, then 26 and decorated posthumously with PVC, is the Indian Air Force’s only winner of the top military honour.His moment of wartime glory came on December 14, 1971, when the Srinagar airfield faced a furious attack by at least six Sabre aircraft of the Pakistan Air Force. In the midst of the strafing of the airfield by the enemy aircraft that presented grave danger to his own safety, Sekhon took off in his Gnat, heroically engaged a pair of Sabres, shot them down and forced the PAF package to retreat before his own aircraft was hit and exploded into a fireball.He was commissioned in IAF as a fighter pilot four years before the war.In the eastern sector, the Indian Navy pulled off the unimaginable.The naval component of the Mukti Bahini -- armed, trained and launched by the Indian Navy’s Directorate of Naval Intelligence (DNI), carried out some of India’s largest special forces attacks. They were part of a covert maritime warfare unit called Naval Commando Operations (X) which existed in the run-up to the 1971 war.On the night of August 15, 1971, more than 170 combat swimmers of the naval wing carried out near simultaneous attacks on the ports of Mongla, Narayangunj, Chittagong and Chandpur destroying or disabling 25 vessels --- the largest such attacks since the Second World war.The core of this irregular force comprised eight Bengali sailors who had deserted the Pakistani submarine PNS Mangro in France in March 1971. They were attached to DNI that began to raise a force of limpeteers (naval saboteurs) trained on the battlefield of Plassey in West Bengal’s Nadia district.The eight Pakistani sailors formed the core of what would be called Naval Commando Operations (X). A total of 457 combat swimmers/limpeteers were trained under the operation run by DNI but supervised by the Eastern Army Command.Between August and November 1971, they sank and disabled 100,000 tonnes of shipping in East Pakistan.Major General JFR Jacob, then Chief of Staff, Eastern Army Command, called these the most effective operations of the Mukti Bahini.The role of this tiny unit has never been officially acknowledged by the Indian Navy. It was documented for the first time in the book Operation X written by Captain MNR Samant, MVC, and journalist Sandeep Unnithan.Setting the stageAnother key operation that took place in the eastern sector involved the Indian Army’s elite paratroopers. India last week marked 50 years of the historic battalion-sized Tangail airdrop north of Dhaka during the 1971 war. The critical operation set the stage for surrender by the rival.The Tangail airdrop is the biggest airborne operation ever mounted by Indian paratroopers.The aim of the operation was to capture the Poongli bridge on Jamalpur-Tangail-Dhaka road and the ferry site on Louhajang river to intercept Pakistan army’s 93 Brigade that was retreating from the north to defend Dhaka.Around 750 men of the 2nd Battalion of the Parachute Regiment were involved in the successful mission. The paratroopers defeated a force that was three times numerically superior and shattered the will of the Pakistani army to defend Dhaka.On December 11, Central Army commander Lieutenant General Yogendra Dimri led a mass jump at a premier base in Agra to mark the golden jubilee of the Tangail airdrop. The mass jump involved 120 paratroopers and four veterans who took part in the 1971 war. The army and the air force dedicated the jump at Agra to India’s first chief of defence staff General Bipin Rawat and the others killed in the December 8 Mi-17V5 crash near Coonoor.Last month, India quietly marked the 50th anniversary of a key battle in erstwhile East Pakistan -- fought 11 days before India and Pakistan officially went to war in 1971 -- in which the Indian Army completely wiped out a Pakistani tank squadron, IAF shot down three enemy fighter jets, and an estimated 300 Pakistani soldiers were killed or injured.The Battle of Garibpur, which included a fierce confrontation between rival tanks on November 21, 1971, and an air battle a day later, ended with the Indian Army creating an important launch pad for the upcoming offensive into enemy territory and set the stage for the creation of military history 24 days later with the liberation of Bangladesh.Paying tributes to the soldiers who took part in the 1971 war, defence minister Rajnath Singh on December 12 said the “glorious victory” 50 years ago changed the history and geography of South Asia and the country would forever remain indebted to the sacrifices made by its warriors. He said the memories of 1971 were still fresh in the heart of every Indian.
17-12-2021||India||All major cities turning into slums: SC||Encroachment on government land is a sad story going on in the country for 75 years, said the Supreme Court on Thursday as it directed the demolition of nearly 1,200 slum units in Gujarat and Haryana and directed the Indian Railways, state governments and concerned municipal authorities to equally bear the cost of compensating the affected residents for a period of six months till those eligible under existing government schemes are provided with alternative housing.The slums situated in Surat and Faridabad were located on railways land; in the case of the Surat slum, the demolition was necessitated by the Surat-Udhna-Jalgaon railway line project, sanctioned in 2018.The cases wound their way up to the Supreme Court, which clubbed them since both concerned railway land.Ruing the fact that encroachment of public land is preventing planned development of cities at the expense of taxpayer money, a bench of justices AM Khanwilkar, Dinesh Maheshwari and CT Ravikumar said, “This is a sad story going on in the country for 75 years and it is ultimately the taxpayers’ money that goes down the drain.”The court added: “It is time that local authorities get activated…All our major cities are turning into slums. If you (corporations) do not allow encroachments to happen, there will be planned development everywhere.”While the Court said that the primary responsibility to prevent encroachment and protect government land is that of the local authority, it also apportioned the liability equally upon railways (owner of land in question) and the states. Together, the three will have to pay a solatium of ₹2000 per month to each of the households affected by the demolition for the next six months.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/all-major-cities-turning-into-slums-sc-101639683870700.html
17-12-2021||India||UNESCO recognition for Kolkata’s Durga Puja triggers slugfest between TMC, BJP||Less than a day after the UNESCO added Kolkata’s Durga Puja to its 2021 list of Intangible Cultural Heritage, the honour for the 331-year-old city triggered a tussle between the ruling Trinamool Congress and the Bharatiya Janata Party on the eve of the December 19 Kolkata Municipal Corporation (KMC) polls.Addressing voters at back-to-back rallies, chief minister Mamata Banerjee lashed out at the BJP for campaigning during the March-April assembly polls that she does not allow Durga Puja in many districts to appease the minority community.“Some people had spread lies against me. They said I do not allow Durga Puja in Bengal. The UNESCO’s recognition has exposed their lies. Their faces have been blackened. I thank the UNESCO. I feel proud that so many of our social welfare projects have attained international recognition. We will elevate Bengal’s image before the world in the coming years,” Banerjee said at a rally in Behala.The attack on the BJP was unleashed on Wednesday evening by the chief minister’s nephew and TMC national general secretary Abhishek Banerjee who also addressed several rallies on Thursday.“Two minutes of silence for @AmitShah and all the tall leaders at @BJP4India who, during their pre-election political tours, HILARIOUSLY CLAIMED that DURGA PUJA IS NOT CELEBRATED IN WEST BENGAL. Your BIGOTRY and HOAX has been BUSTED, you stand EXPOSED YET AGAIN!” Abhishek Banerjee tweeted on Wednesday, targeting the Union home minister who campaigned extensively in March-April.The BJP could win only 77 of the 294 assembly seats against a target of 200.Countering the young TMC leader, Bengal BJP president Sukanta Majumdar tweeted: “Keep extra 2 minutes silence for yourself, @abhishekaitc, the proposal was sent by Modi govt. Also, your govt tried to impose ban on Durga Puja & now trying to take credit by spreading lies.”The Bengal BJP also claimed that it was Prime Minister Narendra Modi who proposed to the UNESCO that Bengal’s Durga Puja should be given a heritage tag.“Thanks to PM Shri @narendramodi Ji for making this possible, it happened because of the proposal by the central government to include Durga Puja in the UNESCO Intangible Cultural Heritage,” tweeted the Bengal BJP.As many as 36,946 community Durga pujas are organised in Bengal. Of these, around 2,500 are held in Kolkata. According to a study the British Council of India conducted last year, the economic value of the artistic creations and cultural activities during Durga Puja in West Bengal is more than ₹32,300 crore.Traditional yoga and the Kumbh Mela got the UNESCO’s recognition in 2016 and 2017 respectively. On Wednesday, the Durga Puja was the only Indian festival to make it to the list of 20 events and traditional activities.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/unesco-recognition-for-kolkata-s-durga-puja-triggers-slugfest-between-tmc-bjp-101639683170033.html
17-12-2021||India||Senior Congress leader and former Karnataka speaker makes crass comment on rape in winter session||Senior Congress leader and former Karnataka speaker Ramesh Kumar on Thursday courted controversy as he made a crass comment on rape in the ongoing winter session in Belagavi, about 505 kms from Bengaluru.“There is a saying that if rape is inevitable, lie down and enjoy it. That’s exactly the situation into which you are,” Kumar said on the floor of the assembly session.The statements come at a time when elected representatives, on more than one occasion and across regions, made insensitive comments on rape and sexual assault which they claim are made in ‘lighter vein’.There were at least 504 instances of rape in Karnataka in 2020, according to data by the National Crime Records Bureau. Kumar made the statement amid a ruckus in the lower house when the Congress MLAs demanded time to speak on the rain-related damages in their constituencies.The speaker, Vishweshwar Hegde Kageri, was trying to defuse growing calls for time to speak when he said that since it was getting difficult to control the house it was better to enjoy it, making a brief reference to Kumar on his predicament. That’s when Kumar made the distasteful remarks.Kumar had made similar comments during his term as speaker between 2018-19.“My situation has become like that of a rape victim. The rape happened just once and had you left it, it would have passed. But when a complaint is made and the accused is put in jail, his lawyers or others like Eshwarappa (then just a legislator and now BJP minister) probe on how it happened, the time and how many times,” he had said in February 2019.He added that at the end of the trial, the victim would say that she was raped just once in reality but multiple times in court during cross examination.“My situation has become like that,” he had said.The legislators present in the house laughed at the comments with no single legislator protesting against the insensitive remarks. There were women legislators present in the house who appeared to be uncomfortable but did not register a protest.The next day Kumar did not apologise and instead said, “The media needed to put out such things because they also had a job.”Dona Fernandes, a women’s rights activist based in Bengaluru, said, “The women’s movement has come so far, but this is how our legislators behave. What is more concerning is that people were laughing at these comments. I recently read that Bengaluru police are setting help desks in hospitals to help victims of rape. The sad part is that we are taking these remedial measures while lawmakers are making such remarks. This is a serious matter and the legislator should be suspended. A suspension would be a small punishment considering the times we live in.” .||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/senior-congress-leader-and-former-karnataka-speaker-makes-crass-comment-on-rape-in-winter-session-101639683168731.html
17-12-2021||India||‘Suicide prevention’ step: IISc students in Bengaluru oppose removal of ceiling fans||Students at the Indian Institute of Science have come out against the institute’s decision to remove ceiling fans from hostel rooms and restrict access to terraces and rooftops to prevent suicides. Since the management has already begun the process of the replacing ceiling fans in a boys’ hotel with a wall-mounted fan, students conducted a survey to show that they are not in favour of the decision. IISc has reported six suicides on the campus since last year. According to students, the removal of fans and other restrictions are part of a kneejerk reaction from the institute, instead of taking steps towards addressing the mental health-related issues of the students. A letter sent to the Student’s Council by a group of students in the institute had the results of the poll conducted. In the survey, which had 305 participants, 273 said they didn’t want the ceiling fan in their room replaced with wall-mounted fan. While 14 agreed to the change, 18 said they didn’t care. In the second question on whether they thought replacing ceiling fans with wall-mounted fans would help curb student suicides, 267 out of 305 voted no. While 19 voted yes, 19 said they didn’t have an informed opinion on the matter. “Even though more than 80% of the participants of the survey saying that it was dumb idea, the institute is going ahead with the plan. The fact is that nothing has been done to address the pressure, academic or otherwise, faced by the students. Such kneejerk reaction won’t make a difference. Instead, they should make the student welfare centre better,” said a student of IISc who took part in the survey. The letter to the chairman of the Student’s Council stated that students have been informed that the work of replacing the fans would be done within 15 days. “Taking this poll as a sample indicator of the entire student population of the IISc, it is clear that currently, the student community does not wish to proceed with this installation. They see no worth in its value proposition,” the letter stated. A member of the Student’s Council said the matter will be taken up with management. Senior officials of IISc didn’t respond to the queries sent by email and phone calls made to get their comments on the decision.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/suicide-prevention-step-iisc-students-in-bengaluru-oppose-removal-of-ceiling-fans-101639682868682.html
17-12-2021||India||Indian culture won’t survive if conversions not stopped: Karnataka minister||The Basavaraj Bommai-led Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) government has proposed to bring a bill to stop conversions done by force or inducement in the ongoing winter session of the Karnataka legislature. Since it was first proposed in September, the anti-conversion bill has fuelled attacks against the Christian community, with the right-wing and other vigilante groups perpetrating violence, instilling fear in those they believe are converting people. During an interview, Karnataka minister for home affairs Araga Jnanendra said the bill would help police take action against those converting by force or inducement and will only prevent vigilante attacks in the future. Excerpts Why is the BJP government proposing to bring this bill (law)? We are studying all models implemented in other states and bringing a law here. These people (referring to missionaries) approach several people and convert them, and the family or anyone can take objection and get agitated, which will adversely impact law and order. They (missionaries) convert thousands of families every day like some strict target to achieve. This is one of the reasons for bringing the bill. Some (religious) seers in Chitradurga have also met with their counterparts on this issue. Religious conversion is a social challenge, and now even the Lingayats are being converted. If we don’t stop these conversions, Indian culture and core religions will not survive. We are being asked to bring this bill by members of society since it (the issue) has reached such alarming levels. When a (BJP) legislator himself said that his mother was converted, imagine the extent! They (missionaries) are doing this in every household and it is dividing families and villages. It happens in rural areas and urban centres on a large scale. What are the provisions of this bill? Those willing to convert would have to mandatorily submit an application to DC (deputy commissioner or district collector), who will observe and inquire the case if it was forcible or by inducement. If there is no issue, it will be approved and communicated to other departments. They (converting person) will lose their caste/religion status and all government benefits that come with it. This aspect was not there before in Karnataka or anywhere else. Under Section 25 of the Constitution, there is an article saying that there should be no conversion by inducement or force but nothing to state what happens if it happens. That is why we are bringing out this bill. You said that the bill would also stop double benefits like Dalit Christians? There is no category called Dalit Christians. They call themselves this. Why does Dalit go to Christianity? There are untouchable castes who may not get the respect they want. So, to live more peacefully and for mental peace, they go there. There is no SC in Christians or Muslims. So, when the bill is streamlined, any possibility of double benefits is closed. Let people who are still under that category get the benefits like job promotion, where the caste or religion category is applicable. Will this bill have retrospective applications to check earlier conversions too? All these aspects are being discussed. There is a provision to register a complaint with the DC against such activities. They will investigate and can take appropriate action. They will serve the converted person notice and probe to check how the conversion took place. We are formulating categories on who can be the complainant, which is yet to be finalised. There have been targeted attacks on the Christian community and a sense of fear since the bill was proposed. There is no fear as such. They (missionaries) sit in someone’s house and conduct prayers and start the religious conversion process. And others in the village have forced themselves into these houses and questioned their intentions and actions, probing if conversions were taking place. This law has been implemented in eight other states, and there have been no problems. Some people and Congress are creating this fear itself as part of their politics. For Congress, it is vote bank politics, and they have groomed some communities. They said that they will oppose the bill even without knowing what is in the bill. Congress itself drafted this bill in 2016 ( in Karnataka), and our bill would be on the same lines. Senior Congress leader Shamanur Shivashankarappa has sent out a circular within his community that religious conversions were happening and that people should get ready to combat this. We are not after vote bank politics. How will you gain their confidence? There is no question of fueling hate. Some 10-15 Christian priests came to me, and I told them there is no intention to create any problems. I told them that this government is committed to giving all protection to follow their respective faith. If this law is made and given to the police, they will be there instantly. There will be no room for confusion and no clarity. Since the police now think twice before taking action, others may take up law in their own hands. Police should have clarity on this. There are fears that this bill will fuel vigilante culture like it was seen after the anti-cattle slaughter law.Nothing of this sort (religious conversions) should happen, which spoils the harmony of the society, and people should remain peacefully within their religion. When there is a situation where illegal has become the norm, the police should stop this. When the police fail to act, the public takes the law into their hands. Now the police are stopping this (cattle slaughter). When we make a law and arm the police with it, there will be clarity as they are not certain on how to handle such incidents. With this law, the police will intervene, and there will be no chance for law-and-order problems. Do you think such a law will prevent conversions entirely? We want to do it. There are allegations that this law targets one community? There are Christians or Muslims who become Hindu or vice versa. Let all these religious conversions become streamlined. So, when it happens, that person will lose the benefits of being a minority (if Christian or Muslim), and society too will know that the person has converted. We want to be impartial and transparent that all these should happen within the framework of the law. Otherwise, people would do things on their whims and fancies, and this cannot be tolerated.What powers will the DC have? If the DC thinks it (a religious conversion) is not genuine, then the application can be rejected. An FIR will be lodged, and there is a strong penal clause that is not yet finalised. But it could be between 3-10 years jail and penalty on all those involved and based on the violations. There are allegations that the BJP government is introducing this bill to deflect attention from the corruption allegations. There is no connection between the two. We have been saying that we will introduce this bill for many years, and there is pressure from society. Is the bill being rushed? Nothing of the sort. But whenever we get a bill, every single word has to be carefully drafted. The same process is being used for all bills. But since everyone is more curious about this one, you are finding out. There has been enough time and discussion on this and not being done in haste. In Bengaluru, at least two comedy shows were cancelled. Is it right for the police to do this? The shows of two such people have been cancelled. When they were in different regions of the country, there were FIRs against them. They don’t just do comedy, but they criticise religion and other things. If it is just comedy, there would be no problem. No license or permission is required to perform it. But these people attack the sentiments of the people through their shows. With that in mind and to protect the harmony, the police had imposed certain restrictions, including denying them space. If a programme has the potential to create unrest, then the police will restrict it and order that no space is given to such elements. What is the proposal to bring in the special marriages act (Love Jihad)? This is under discussion on how to do it.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/forced-conversions-threaten-indian-culture-says-karnataka-home-minister-araga-jnanendra-101639682688722.html
17-12-2021||India||Tamil Nadu: CCTV footage shows masked man at looted jewellery store||Tamil Nadu police probing Tuesday’s heist in a popular jewellery showroom Jos Alukkas in Vellore on Thursday found CCTV footage that shows a masked man spray painting cameras inside the showroom.Local reports pegged the burglary to be to the tune of ₹8 crore which includes 15kg of gold jewellery. However, Vellore’s superintendent of police Rajesh Kannan refused to confirm the same.AG Babu, the director general of police of the Vellore range, told news channels on Thursday they have formed eight teams under four DSPs.“We have a few clues. In the CCTV footage, only one person with a mask has been recorded,” he said. “We will find the accused soon. Several cases like this have happened in the past. Some have been gangs from West Bengal while some were local gangs from Tamil Nadu.”The CCTV footage shows a man wearing an animal mask covering his entire face and he is seen spray painting cameras inside the showroom which is located on the ground floor of a three-storey building.The burglary is said to have happened in the late hours of Tuesday and came to light on Wednesday when the staff opened the store.A team led by Kannan combed through the store and sniffer dogs and forensic experts were pressed into service.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/tamil-nadu-cctv-footage-shows-masked-man-at-looted-jewellery-store-101639682508591.html
17-12-2021||India||Telangana reports 4 more Omicron cases||Telangana on Thursday reported four more cases of Omicron Covid variant from among the passengers who arrived from foreign countries, taking the overall such cases in the state to 6.State director of public health G Srinivas Rao said out of the four fresh positive cases of Omicron variant, three were from Kenya and one is of Indian origin from “at risk” country. “Investigation is on. Further details would be disclosed on Friday,” Rao said.On Thursday, as many as 120 persons landed in Hyderabad international airport from “at risk” countries and none of them tested positive for Covid-19. However, out of the 21 samples sent for Genome sequencing in the last two days, four more fresh cases of Omicron variant were reported – one from at risk country and three from Kenya, which is not in the list of “at risk” country.On Wednesday, the health officials shifted the two Omicron infected persons – a 24-year-old woman from Kenya and another 23-year-old man from Somalia – to Telangana Institute of Medical Sciences at Gachibowli on Wednesday.The health department intensified measures to trace all the contacts of the two Omicron cases. They managed to trace around 150 persons who came in contact with these two African nationals in the last two days and conducted Covid-19 tests on them.The Greater Hyderabad Municipal Corporation (GHMC) authorities declared the Paramount Colony at Tolichowki, where the two Omicron-affected persons were located, as containment area. The GHMC teams sanitised the entire area was sanitised with disinfectants in the last two days.“We are carrying out intense searches for others who might have come into contact with these two persons since December 12, when they landed in Hyderabad and we shall conduct tests on them. We are also not leaving other citizens in the area as the virus can spread through air as well,” the health department official said.If any of the people in the area test positive for Covid-19, their samples would be sent to the Centre for Cellular and Molecular Biology for genome sequencing, he said.
17-12-2021||India||YouTuber Maridash held again for controversial video linking Muslims with Covid-19||Days after the Madras high court quashed an FIR against YouTuber M Maridhas for his controversial tweets on the helicopter crash that killed chief of the defence staff Gen Bipin Rawat, Tirunelveli district police on Thursday arrested him in another case registered in April 2020.Maridhas was already in a sub-jail in Theni district as a Chennai court on Monday remanded him until December 27 for a case where a private Tamil news channel filed a complaint that he forged an e-mail and claimed it to be sent from the media house.“Now, we have taken cognisance of the offence for the case registered against him in 2020. We have arrested and produced him before the magistrate in Tirunelveli and we have taken him back to Theni where he is lodged for another case,” said NK Senthamaraikannan, superintendent of police, Tirunelveli district. The Tirunelveli district magistrate has posted the case for December 30.It pertains to a video that Maridhas had uploaded where he allegedly blames Muslims and the Tablighi Jamaat congregation for the spread of Covid-19. After watching the broadcast online, a resident of Tirunelveli’s Melapalayam, Mohamed Kader Meeran, filed a complaint against Maridhas. Police have booked Maridhas under Sections 292 (a), 295 A, and 505 (2) of Indian Penal Code and 67 B (a) of the Information Technology Act, 2000.Maridhas known to have leaning towards right-wing ideologies has been engulfed in controversies and has the support of the BJP unit in Tamil Nadu which blames the ruling DMK government for such arrests.The party had welcomed the court quashing the FIR which had sedition charges against Maridhas and party members were seen protesting against his arrest in the case earlier in December.Tamil Nadu BJP president K Annamalai had reacted that they will continue to fight for all the nationalist voices when it is suppressed. The party even met Tamil Nadu Governor RN Ravi last week to submit a memorandum that there has been “illegal police case against” 22 of BJP IT wing members and “nationalist social media voices in Tamil Nadu on flimsy grounds”.A day after the tragic crash, Maridhas had tweeted in Tamil that Tamil Nadu under the DMK rule was becoming another Kashmir. A DMK IT-wing member filed a complaint and the Madurai bench of the Madras high court on December 14 quashed the FIR stating that that a ‘Youtuber’ and any social media personality regularly commenting on public affairs would also be entitled to the very same rights which are accorded to journalists and the media under Article 19(1)(a) of the Constitution and that Maridhas is entitled to the constitutionally guaranteed fundamental right to freedom of speech and expression.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/youtuber-maridash-held-again-for-controversial-video-linking-muslims-with-covid19-101639682151356.html
17-12-2021||India||Vague statement not enough to prove rape, says Kerala high court||A vague statement of an alleged victim of sexual assault without any indication of intercourse would not constitute the offence of rape under Section 375 of the Indian Penal Code (IPC), the Kerala high court observed while acquitting a convict in a rape case. A single judge bench of Justice Kausar Edapaggath on Wednesday made the observation while hearing a petition of a man convicted of rape by a lower court based on the statement of a woman that the “accused hugged and impregnated” her. The court held that a vague statement would not be a substitute for the statutory mandate contained in the IPC section, reports Bar and Bench. The case was registered in 2009 and the accused was convicted by a lower court on the basis of the testimony of the victim and her mother.According to the prosecution, the accused developed physical relation with the woman and impregnated her on the pretext of a false marriage promise. The defence counsel, however, contended that not forceful intercourse was suggested by the petitioner and both (victim and mother) withdrew from the marriage proposal after the accused failed to return a gold chain borrowed by him from the victim for pledging. The court found that in the victim’s statement there was no mention of intercourse or that the victim gave birth to a child as alleged in the petition. The court noted that if a man retracts his promise to marry a woman, the prosecution must give evidence that the accused had no intention to marry the victim from the very inception, to attract the offence of rape. “There must be proof of penetration and only the victim can tell about this. But after going through her statement, such a fact is not revealed. She has not stated anything relating to penile penetration or such attempt. She only stated that the accused hugged and impregnated her,” the court held. Going by the records, statements and the attending circumstances, they do not remotely suggest that it was non-consensual, the court noted. The court also found the promise of marriage was given after the alleged sexual act and not at the initial stage. The bench then set aside the lower court judgment and set him free.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/vague-statement-not-enough-to-prove-rape-says-kerala-high-court-101639682028815.html
17-12-2021||India||Metro Man Sreedharan retires from active politics||Less than a year after joining the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) in Kerala, ‘Metro Man’ E Sreedharan on Thursday announced his retirement from active politics, much to the surprise of the party’s state unit.Celebrated as a chief architect of the Konkan Railway as well as of the Delhi and Kochi Metros, Sreedharan lost the Palakkad seat to sitting MLA Shafi Parambil by 3,859 votes in the Assembly elections in April this year.Addressing reporters in Ponnani, his hometown in Malappuram district, Sreedharan said, “Defeat in the assembly election made me wiser. When I lost, it made me sad. But now that I realize it, I would have been an MLA if elected. I could have done nothing much by being an MLA alone. I have never been a politician. I remained a bureaucratic politician for some time,” he said, adding his entry into politics was late, but the exit was as early.“I am 90 now. I cannot run around like a youngster. I am associated with three different trusts, and I will spend the rest of my time with them,” he said. When asked whether he was leaving the arena in disgust, Sreedharan said when he joined the BJP in March 2021, there were enough chances for the party, but the situation is different now. “The party will have to do enough to get a foothold in the state. That I mentioned in my report to the party president after the election debacle. I don’t want to discuss those things now,” he said.The BJP-National Democratic Alliance (NDA), which fought the April 2 Assembly polls, fancying a win in at least 35 seats in Kerala, failed to retain even its lone seat of Nemom. All its major contestants, including Sreedharan and party state chief K Surendran, were defeated.“My short stint in politics, I am leaving neither disgusted nor contended. You can say late entry and early exit. I will serve people the rest of my life through three bodies I am associated with,” he said.Five years ago, Sreedharan founded an NGO called Foundation of Restoration for National Values, which took up many issues, including Kerala floods and advertisements.BJP state unit expressed surprise over his sudden exit. “We heard about this through media only. He will be around, and we will seek his guidance and advice on key issues,” said state president K Surendran.In the assembly election, the BJP had projected him as the chief ministerial candidate thinking his stature would fetch the party political dividends. Yet, it remained an also-ran in the Left surge, and its vote share also went down from 15 per cent to 13. The railway civil engineer acquired the sobriquet of the Metro Man after he oversaw the launch of the metro rail project in the national capital. He also played a key role in the Konkan railway and rebuilding of the Pambhan railway bridge in Rameswaram, which was destroyed in a storm in 1964. 
17-12-2021||India||Kerala: No trace of tiger on prowl in Kerala, villagers launch stir||Efforts to trap a tiger that encroached Kurukkanmoola and nearby villages in the Wayanad district of Kerala failed yet again, resulting in two more killings on Wednesday night. On Thursday, harried forest officials had a tough time dealing with angry local people who blocked them, and assurances were needed to cool their tempers. State forest minister A K Saseendran, who called a special meeting in the state capital on Thursday, said the government would do everything possible to alleviate the fear and agony of the villagers. “We have pressed into service innovative methods including drones and night vision cameras to track the tiger. We understand the plight of local people, and we will do everything to end their misery,” the minister said after the meeting. Two divisional forest officers, 200-odd forest personnel, three tranquillising teams, a trained elephant squad and selected local volunteers have been trying to locate the elusive tiger, which has made 17 killings in the last 20 days. On Wednesday night, it killed a calf belonging to a retired teacher M John, and its carcass was found 30 m away from his home. At least one kms away from his house, the tiger killed a goat belonging to a farmer. “We heard the cries of the calf, but we were strictly told not to open doors during night hours,” said John, adding that the marauding tiger restricted their lives inside their homes. In Kurukkanmoola, the worst affected village with 12animals killed, farmers said they have not gone to their farms for more than two weeks and school-going children remain at home. Though district administration has promised protection to children, villagers are not ready to take any chance. “Once it won’t get animals, it may turn to human beings,” said a resident P Vipin. Section 144 is in force for more than two weeks in the area, where night travel is also banned. Visuals captured show it is a big male tiger and has a deep gush on its neck. Officials suspect that it might have been severely injured over a fight for territory or mate and turned to domestic animals as it could not hunt down its prey.Forest officials could not match the image of the tiger in the database collected from Wayanad in the last two years. A photo and pug mark details have been sent to the National Tiger Conservation Authority (NTCA) to ascertain its territory and identity, said north zone conservator of forests D K Vinod Kumar. “We have sent camera trap pics and other details to NTCA to find out its details. Our records show it is not a resident of Wayanad forests,” he added. Wildlife experts have said it is normal for injured tigers to travel many kms in forests and camp near human habitats for easy prey. Wayanad wildlife sanctuary is spread over 344 sq kms, and is home to 80 tigers, according to the last wildlife census. “Trapping or tranquillising a big cat is a strenuous exercise. We can’t set a deadline for it,” said wildlife expert Dr P S Esa adding best teams are at work. 
17-12-2021||India||Andhra to engage 15L college students in community service||The Andhra Pradesh government has come up with a novel scheme of engaging all college students in community service, so that they could identify the issues confronting the society at various levels and give a feedback to the government to help it frame better policies.“It is a first of its kind initiative in the country wherein nearly 15.70 lakh students studying various professional and non-professional colleges and universities would be involved in the community service, so that they would come out with suggestions on addressing the needs of the society,” Andhra Pradesh State Council of Higher Education Society (APSCHE) chairman K Hemachandra Reddy said.The state government has created a separate organisation – the Community Planning and Development Board, aimed at advising the government on matters related to community development by involving the students of engineering, pharmacy, education, law and conventional degree colleges.“These students would act as a bridge between people and government. They would visit the villages, blocks, revenue divisions and districts assigned to them. In coordination with the village and ward secretariats, they would interact with the educated people and elders, identify the community needs, match them with locally available resources and prepare the reports. They would these micro-level findings with concerned departments when required,” Reddy said.The APSCHE will instruct the Community Planning and Development Board to take up the surveys and build the required database, through the involvement of educational institutions.In each mandal (revenue block), a college would be identified as a nodal agency. There will be a resource centre for a cluster of mandals. Similarly, there would be similar centres at the revenue division and district level. The students at different levels will be involved in the task assigned to them by the board.The student groups collect the complete data pertaining to the villages of that mandal. A suitable questionnaire shall be designed for this purpose. The data will be studied and analysed with the help of village/ward secretariat and the faculty members of the college. The output has to be discussed with the people and the felt-needs of the community need to be drafted.“After consolidating data on all the issues found by these centres, the data will be grouped into categories, following a series of discussions with the social engineers, scientists, professors, and NGOs on how to tackle them,” Reddy said.The tasks assigned to the students could be on any issues – infrastructure, social issues, health, education, agriculture, environment and the community requirements.“Unlike the previous community based programmes like National Service Scheme (NSS) wherein only interested students participate, we have designed this programme to involve all the students by integrating with Choice Based Credit System (CBCS),” he said.Every student must put in a minimum of 180 hours for the community service project during the summer vacation, so that they would get four credits within the CBCS. They would submit their reports in the form of dissertation to the board, which in turn, submits the same to the government with specific recommendations.“The community planning and development board aims to encourage people to participate in building government policies and become a part of the governance. This way, students can become socially responsible which can bring about a happier atmosphere to live in,” said Nedurumalli Ram Kumar Reddy, chairman of the board.
17-12-2021||India||Change in mindset required to restore jurisprudence on bail, says Supreme Court||A change in the mindset of courts and prosecution is required to restore the jurisprudence on bail, observed the Supreme Court on Thursday while regretting that its order to facilitate bail in cases where the accused has not been arrested during the investigation was being construed in a reverse manner.“The problem is with the mindset. We may lay down a law but the mindset has to change... our endeavour was to reduce the numbers of bail applications coming to this court. But the way our order is being interpreted, we will end up having more applications coming to this court,” observed a bench of justices Sanjay Kishan Kaul and MM Sundresh.“A change in the mindset is required both in courts and in prosecution. The whole thing is that the prosecution thinks whether we are able to convict or not in the end of the trial, let’s put them behind bars for some days. Bail petitions are heard for days and days...Some change-over is necessary,” it added.The bench pointed out that when it passed the guidelines on bail on October 7, the idea was to send out a message that an accused, whose arrest was not felt necessary by a probe agency during the course of the investigation, should not be thrown behind bars just because a charge sheet is being filed and the accused has now been summoned. This order said that the trial court, on receipt of the charge sheet and appearance of the accused, should decide the bail applications without taking the accused into custody.However, as pointed out by a clutch of senior advocates including Mukul Rohatgi, Amit Desai and Vikram Chaudhri, who appeared for some of the accused in criminal cases, the prosecution was now asking the trial courts to decide bail applications even in cases where there was no requirement of bail and the accused could be released merely by furnishing a bond.“You can take this order as a discouragement to keep people in custody or you can take it as an additional reason not to give bail. We can change the law but the greater challenge is of the mindset. And this is a real problem. We have been issuing notices and granting interim relief in 40 to 50% cases of bail,” said the bench. It also went on to clarify in its previous order: “The idea of the October 7 order is not to put any additional fetters but it is in line with the judicial thinking on enlargement of bail... We also clarify that during the course of the investigation, if the accused has not been arrested, filing of chargesheet alone won’t be a ground to arrest the accused.”The court also requested all the lawyers and additional solicitor general SV Raju, who appeared for the Central Bureau of Investigation and the Enforce Directorate in the cases, to sit together and come up with additional directions that should be issued by the bench on the next date to convey the intent of the previous order.However, Raju, on his part, complained that most offenders are in hospital. “They cheat people of ₹100 crore and spend ₹20 crore on lawyers for bail or hospital,” said the ASJ.To this, the bench retorted: “So, you keep them behind bars and they end up in hospitals. In a lighter vein, there seems to be an economic distribution of wealth.”
17-12-2021||India||Two LeT terrorists killed in Kulgam encounter||Two terrorists affiliated to Lashkar-e-Taiba (LeT) were killed in an encounter with security forces in South Kashmir’s Kulgam district on Thursday, Jammu and Kashmir (J&K) Police said. A police spokesperson said that acting on a specific input about the presence of terrorists in village Redwani Bala late on Wednesday night, the J&K police along with the Army and the Central Reserved Police Force (CRPF) launched a joint cordon and search operation in the area. “The house where the terrorists were hiding was cordoned and an opportunity for surrender was given to them. But they opened indiscriminate fire upon the security forces. Intermittent exchange of fire kept taking place and at around 2.20 am and the two trapped terrorists were killed,” the spokesperson said. Later in the day, police identified the slain terrorists as Aamir Bashir Dar alias Danish of Kujjar Yaripora and Yousuf Shan of Sursano Hatipora in Kulgam district. Both were ‘C’ category terrorists and affiliated with The Resistance Front (TRF), an offshoot of LeT, police said, adding Dar was active since April. “Arms and ammunition were recovered from the encounter site,” the spokesperson said, adding that a case has been registered at Qaimoh police station.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/two-let-terrorists-killed-in-kulgam-encounter-101639681128675.html
17-12-2021||India||Winter session: Biological diversity bill tabled amid Opposition protest||A bill which seeks to reduce the pressure on wild medicinal plants by encouraging cultivation of such plants and facilitating fast-tracking of research, patent application process and transfer of research results was introduced in Parliament on Thursday.Union environment minister Bhupender Yadav introduced the Biological Diversity (Amendment) Bill, 2021 amid din created by the Opposition over the Lakhimpur Kheri violence issue.The bill was drafted following concerns by traditional Indian medicine practitioners, seed sector, and industry and research sector over compliance burden in the Biological Diversity Act 2002, which was enacted for conservation of biological diversity and ensure fair and equitable sharing of the benefits arising out of the use of biological resources with indigenous and local communities.According to the bill, these sectors urged the Centre to “reduce compliance burden in order to encourage a conducive environment for collaborative research and investments, simplify patent application process, widen the scope of levying access and benefit sharing with local communities and for further conservation of biological resources”.The bill proposes to give exemption to registered AYUSH medical practitioners and people accessing codified traditional knowledge, among others, from giving prior intimation to state biodiversity boards for accessing biological resources for certain purposes, the statement of objects and reasons of the bill said.“The amendment seems to be done with the sole intention of providing benefit to the AYUSH Industry. The main focus of the bill is to facilitate the trade in biodiversity as opposed to conservation, protection of biodiversity and knowledge of the local communities. The amendments are completely contrary to the aim and objective of the Biological Diversity Act, 2002,” environmental lawyer Ritwick Dutta said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/winter-session-biological-diversity-bill-tabled-amid-opposition-protest-101639680779994.html
17-12-2021||India||Govt may table bill to raise women’s marriage age to 21||The Union government is planning to bring a bill to increase the minimum legal age of marriage for women from 18 to 21, people familiar with developments said, underlining a far-reaching decision that will require modification in faith-based personal laws dealing with marriage and inheritance.The Union Cabinet cleared the proposal in its meeting on Wednesday and the government plans to bring the bill — which will bring the minimum age of marriage for women at par with that of men — in the ongoing winter session of Parliament, said the people quoted above.At present, the legal age of women to get married is 18 while that of men is 21. The decision is based on the recommendation of a task force led by former Samata Party chief Jaya Jaitly.“If we talk about gender equity and gender empowerment in every field, we cannot leave marriage out because this is a very odd message that a girl can be fit to be married at 18 that cuts away her opportunity to go to college, and the man has the opportunity to prepare himself for life and earning up to 21 years,” said Jaitly.Jaitly said the task force submitted its recommendations to the Prime Minister’s Office, the Union ministry of women and child development and NITI Aayog last December. The other members in the panel were V K Paul, member (health) NITI Aayog; the secretaries of the higher education, school education, health, women and child development, legislative departments apart from academicians Najma Akhtar, Vasudha Kamat and Dipti Shah.The government may amend the 2006 Prohibition of Child Marriage Act to enact the watershed reform, said the people quoted in the first instance. The decision comes a year after Prime Minister Narendra Modi said the Centre was deliberating on what the minimum age for marriage of women should be.If passed by Parliament, the amended minimum age for women will require amendments in a raft of laws, including the 1954 Special Marriage Act, the 1955 Hindu Marriage Act, the 1872 Indian Christian Marriage Act, the 1936 Parsi Marriage and Divorce Act, among others. Also laws on inheritance, maintenance and divorce might need to be amended too. Jaitly said the panel conducted assessment calls with young people and found almost everyone agreed. “We should give the girl an opportunity to earn and be equal to a man and she cannot become equal at 18 years when man has 21 years to do that.”Some experts, however, cautioned that the move might backfire as it didn’t address the underlying causes of early marriages and ignored existing socio-economic differences.“No one is in disagreement that women should not be married early.... We need to make investments in educating both girls and boys so that they themselves don’t get married early,” said Bharti Ali, director of HAQ: Centre for Child Rights, a child rights NGO.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/govt-may-table-bill-to-raise-women-s-marriage-age-to-21-101639680778337.html
17-12-2021||India||Congress releases 1st list of candidates for Goa polls before EC announcement||The Congress on Thursday released its first list of eight candidates for the assembly elections in Goa which is slated to take place next year.The Congress is the first party to announce its candidates even before the announcement of polls by the Election Commission, and will give its candidates a head start for campaigning.According to an official communication from the party, former chief minister Digamber Kamat will contest the polls from Margao constituency and Sudhir Kanolkar from the Mapusa assembly seat.Kamat, who served as chief minister from 2012 to 2017, currently represents the Margao assembly seat. He is also the leader of opposition in the Goa assembly. Kanolkar has been a municipal councillor and was earlier a member of the Bharatiya Janata Party state executive. He had quit the saffron party to join the Congress in early 2019.Besides, the party fielded Tony Rodrigues from Taleigao assembly seat and Rajesh Verenkar from Ponda constituency.Among other candidates are Sankalp Amonkar from Marmugao seat, Aleixo Reginaldo Lourenco from Curtorim seat and Yuri Alemao from Cuncolim assembly constituency while Altone D’Costa has been fielded from Quepem seat. The statement said that the candidates were selected by the central election committees chaired by Congress chief Sonia Gandhi.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/congress-releases-1st-list-of-candidates-for-goa-elections-before-ec-announcement-101639680777011.html
17-12-2021||India||India’s Central Asia meet to focus on Afghan issue||The situation in Afghanistan and regional connectivity will be in focus when external affairs minister S Jaishankar meets his counterparts from five Central Asian states for the third India-Central Asia Dialogue in New Delhi on December 19. India is hosting the three-day dialogue for which the foreign ministers of Kazakhstan, Kyrgyzstan, Tajikistan, Turkmenistan and Uzbekistan will be visiting the country. Tajikistan foreign minister Sirojiddin Muhriddin will also be on an official bilateral visit from December 18 to 20 at the invitation of Jaishankar.New Delhi is looking at the possibility of having the leaders of the Central Asian states as the chief guests at next year’s Republic Day celebrations.The India-Central Asia Dialogue will see the foreign ministers discuss ways to strengthen relations, with the focus on trade, connectivity and developmental cooperation, external affairs ministry spokesperson Arindam Bagchi told a regular media briefing. “India considers Central Asia as part of its extended neighbourhood,” he added.Bagchi indicated that developments in Afghanistan following the Taliban takeover in August are expected to figure in the discussions. “I would think that given the interests of the members of this dialogue, regional developments will certainly be an important element of their conversation,” he said.Regional connectivity, too, is an important element and the foreign ministers will discuss ways to strengthen trade and transit links between India and Central Asia, he said. They would look at multiple modalities, including Iran’s Chabahar port and other options, he added.The Indian government has focused on bolstering its ties with the Central Asian states by capitalising on the relations of both sides with Russia. In 2015, Prime Minister Narendra Modi became the first Indian premier to have visited all five Central Asian states in a single trip.The outreach towards Central Asia is seen as a counter to China’s creeping influence. The Taliban takeover of Kabul and shared concerns about the spillover of terrorism and instability from Afghanistan have emerged as a shared concern and the national security chiefs of all five Central Asian states attended a regional security conference on Afghanistan hosted by India last month.Jaishankar visited Kazakhstan, Kyrgyzstan, Tajikistan and Uzbekistan this year, and also held a meeting with his Turkmenistan counterpart.The dialogue is “symbolic of the interest on the part of all member countries for greater engagement...in a spirit of friendship, trust and mutual understanding”, Bagchi said. The five Central Asian foreign ministers will make a joint courtesy call on Modi.
17-12-2021||India||1,002 women clear written exam for NDA||Allowed to take the examination for admission to the National Defence Academy in November after the Supreme Court shattered the glass ceiling at the premier military school, 1,002 women have cleared it, striking a strong blow for equality in the armed forces.“Of the 8,009 candidates who have cleared the exam, 7,007 are men and 1,002 are women,” an official said on the condition of anonymity. That means 12.51% of the people who cleared the test are women. They will now have to clear a personality and intelligence assessment and physical and medical tests before being admitted into the NDA.Annually, less than 5% of the men who cleared the written examination made it through.HT on October 30 reported that a third of the candidates appearing for the NDA examination on November 14 for entry into the premier joint services training institution were women.This was their first attempt at the entrance exam being conducted by the Union Public Service Commission (UPSC) at centres across India , after the Supreme Court, in a landmark order on August 18, opened the doors of the academy to women.“Nearly 570,000 applications have been received and of these 178,000 are women,” a second official said, also on condition of anonymity.The apex court’s order making women eligible to join the NDA, which was formally inaugurated 66 years ago and was thus far a male preserve, came almost three decades after they were allowed to serve in select branches of the army, air force and navy as short-service commission (SSC) officers.A fortnight ahead of the exam, army chief General Manoj Mukund Naravane set the tone for welcoming female cadets into the Khadakwasla-based academy, which currently has a maximum training capacity of around 2,000 cadets every year.“As we open the portals of NDA to women cadets, I expect you all to welcome them with the same sense of fair play and professionalism that the Indian armed forces are known for the world over,” Naravane said, while addressing cadets during a passing out parade at the academy. Naravane said the induction of women will be the “first step towards gender equality” in the armed forces, and added that women officers will be in the same position 40 years later that he is in now.The top court in September told the Union government that women aspiring to join the armed forces should be allowed to take the NDA entrance examination in November, days after the government informed the court that the academy will be ready to welcome the first-ever batch of women cadets in January 2023, after they sit for the entrance exam in May 2022.The court said it “cannot belie the aspirations of young girls” and rejected the Centre’s request to delay the examination for women on the ground that much groundwork was still to be done.The aspects that the NDA will now have to quickly work on include medical standards for women, accommodation, training capacity, security and privacy arrangements, physical segregation of living quarters, associated physical and electronic surveillance measures, and additional gender-specific requirements. The physical and medical standards for men for entry to the NDA are extremely stringent. Equivalent standards for women in the NDA entry age group (16.5 to 19 years) are being formulated, said a third official, who asked not to be named.Students become eligible to take the NDA and Naval Academy Examination, while they are in the 12th standard.Those who clear the entrance exam have to face the Services Selection Board (a rigorous personality and intelligence test spread over five days); candidates accepted by the SSB will undergo a medical examination before UPSC releases the final merit list. After training at the NDA for three years, split into six terms, cadets head for further training at different academies depending on their choice of service before being commissioned as officers.The headcount of women in the military has increased almost three-fold over the last six years, with more avenues being opened to them at a steady pace. As of February 9,118 women were serving in the Army, Navy and Air Force.The SC on February 17, 2020, ruled that SSC women officers in the army are entitled to permanent commission (PC) and they have to be considered irrespective of their service length. Five months later, the defence ministry issued a formal sanction letter for granting PC to them. The order specified grant of PC to SSC women officers in 10 streams.One of the turning points for women in the military came in 2015 when the Indian Air Force decided to induct them into the fighter stream. Earlier this year, the Indian Navy deployed four women officers on warships after a hiatus of almost 25 years.But tanks and combat positions in infantry are still no-go zones for women.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/1002-women-clear-written-exam-for-nda-101639680774251.html
17-12-2021||India||Team arrives in South Africa under shadow of captaincy saga||Mumbai The image of India’s Test skipper Virat Kohli, wearing spectacles, a face mask and a shield, and immersed in his smartphone after the team landed at the OR Tambo International Airport in Johannesburg, greeted millions of cricket fans on BCCI’s social media handles on Thursday evening. Kohli will lead India’s quest for their first-ever series win in South Africa, though it may not be surprising if he was scrolling for news from back home, having left BCCI officials in a fix with his comments in the pre-departure media conference on Wednesday. Kohli refuting BCCI president Sourav Ganguly’s comments that he asked him not to step down as T20 skipper, and then detailing that he was only told of his removal as ODI skipper by chief selector Chetan Sharma 90 minutes before the meeting to pick the Test squad, has sparked a raging controversy. Ganguly, when asked about Kohli’s comments and the divergence in their narratives -- or “discrepancy”, as former captain Sunil Gavaskar called it -- responded on Thursday with a cryptic and terse comment: “I have no comments. We will deal with it appropriately. Leave it to the BCCI,” he told TV journalists in Kolkata. Even without the foreboding that Ganguly’s comment carried, Kohli will be under intense scrutiny in the series. The final Test in Cape Town is set to be his 100th, and his average in South Africa is better than his impressive career average of 50.65 (5 Tests, 553 runs at 55.80, two hundreds). But the Indian skipper averages 28.4 across 10 Tests in 2021 and his last century came in November, 2019, 14 Test matches ago. Apart from having to regain his best form, he will also have to contend with the struggles of Cheteshwar Pujara and Ajinkya Rahane, the senior batsmen low on confidence but included to make their experience of the conditions to count. With Kohli saying on Wednesday that Ganguly’s comments over the manner of his removal as ODI captain were “inaccurate”, he has taken on the BCCI president directly, and there were rumours on Thursday that BCCI could respond -- either a rebuttal through a statement, or through a press conference by chief selector Chetan Sharma. There was also some talk that Kohli could be asked to “show cause”. Some senior cricket officials, however, said that they had advised against it because targeting Kohli when he is leading India on an important tour would reflect poorly on BCCI. India cricket legend Kapil Dev said the saga was were ill-timed. “I would say Board president is Board president, but yes the Indian cricket team captain is also a big thing. But talking badly about each other in public, I don’t think it is a good thing, whether it is Sourav or Kohli... You must control the situation, it’ll be better if you think about the country,” he said.The current controversy was sparked when BCCI announced Rohit Sharma as ODI skipper as a footnote in its statement announcing the Test team for South Africa. Following widespread criticism of BCCI not showing respect to a great cricketer, it thanked Kohli on its Twitter handle. Ganguly then told the media that he had tried to persuade Kohli from quitting as T20 skipper and said having two separate captains for white-ball teams was untenable. Amid speculation that Kohli has fallen out favour with the BCCI and did not get along with Rohit Sharma, the Test skipper said he had an excellent relationship with his teammate and that Ganguly’s comments he had tried to stop him from quitting T20 captaincy was “inaccurate”. Kohli also said he was told about the ODI captaincy change by Chetan Sharma only 90 minutes before the selection meeting to pick the Test squad. India will go into the Test series without Rohit Sharma, their most successful batsman in the summer tour of England where his blunting of the bowling as opener was key to India taking a 2-1 series lead with a game to play. While Sharma, nursing a hamstring injury, could recover to lead in his first full ODI series that follows, Kohli dismissed some media reports that he had sought a break and that he was available for the series. India play Tests in Centurion (Dec 26-30), Johannesburg (Jan 3-7) and Cape Town (Jan 11-15). The ODIs will be played in Paarl (Jan 19, 21) and at Cape Town (Jan 23). And, as far as press conferences go, Kohli is likely to address the media on Christmas Day before the Centurion Test, when the topics covered will not be restricted to the 22 yards. 
17-12-2021||India||What we know about Omicron variant so far||Infections of the Omicron variant are spiralling globally.The United Kingdom, reeling under separate outbreaks of the variant as well as Delta, set a record for new cases on Wednesday and logged a 10% increase in hospitalisation compared to last week. The worst, England’s chief medical officer Chris Whitty warned, may yet to come as Omicron takes over.Across the English Channel, France responded by banning people from entering from the UK, while on the other side of the Atlantic, officials in the United States confirmed regular vaccine doses may become insufficient and boosters will be crucial.Globally, there are more than 75 countries that have confirmed cases of Omicron and scientists are racing to uncover how the mutated virus will shape the next few months of the pandemic, which is almost certain to flare in several regions of the world.Are boosters enough?On Wednesday, White House medical adviser Anthony Fauci said Omicron has not mutated enough to need redesigned vaccine (or a booster), and third doses of the existing jabs work adequately.Fauci’s comments are based on a body of scientific evidence unveiled recently. Researchers from the National Institute of Allergy and Infectious Diseases (NIAID) and Johns Hopkins University last week published preliminary findings that suggest the adaptive immune response of the human body – which learns a pathogen and can later identify and kill infected cells – recognises Omicron almost as effectively as it does the other variants.This is different from the case of another component of the immune system, which consists of antibodies that bind to circulating viral particles before they can infect cells. Antibodies created in response to an infection with one of the older variants or via vaccination are less able to bind to Omicron.The authors said this is because Omicron has mostly not mutated in regions that the adaptive immunity’s killer T cells target. “These data suggest that virtually all individuals with existing anti-Sars-CoV-2 CD8+ T-cell responses should recognise the Omicron VOC, and that Sars-CoV-2 has not evolved extensive T-cell escape mutations at this point,” the authors said in the study, and added that those with vaccination and a past infection will still have protection from Omicron-triggered Covid-19.Or should vaccines be updated?But two other studies contend that the evolution of Omicron represents a striking leap that could necessitate the work on revising vaccines, even if they are for a future, even-worse configuration of the virus that looks increasingly inevitable.In the first study, the scientists (a group comprising teams from Switzerland, US and Italy) said they found that antibodies trained on one part of the Sars-Cov-2, known as the receptor binding domain of the Spike protein, were largely ineffective in neutralising Omicron.But antibodies that target other parts of the virus retained ability to neutralise even Omicron, since those parts did not undergo as significant a mutation in the new variant.Almost all vaccines at present target the spike protein of the virus, which has evolved significantly in Omicron.The first study also found that Omicron had gained an ability to bind to mouse ACE2, an enzyme the Sars-Cov-2 previously couldn’t attach to.The second study, by researchers from Hong Kong and the US, too found that most antibodies that target the spike had become ineffective. “The Omicron variant presents a serious threat to many existing Covid-19 vaccines and therapies, compelling the development of new interventions that anticipate the evolutionary trajectory of Sars-CoV-2,” the study said.The authors of this study called for efforts to be made to pre-empt further evolution of the coronavirus. “It is not too far-fetched to think that this Sars-CoV-2 is now only a mutation or two away from being pan-resistant to current antibodies… We must devise strategies that anticipate the evolutional direction of the virus and develop agents that target better conserved viral elements.”Fauci, writing separately along with two other American experts in the New England Journal of Medicine, pitched for a universal coronavirus vaccine.“We need a research approach that can characterise the global ‘coronaviral universe’ in multiple species, characterise the natural history and pathogenesis of coronaviruses in laboratory animals and in humans, and apply this information in developing broadly protective ‘universal’ vaccines (protecting against all betacoronaviruses, and ideally all coronaviruses),” they wrote in the piece published on Wednesday.Until that happens, the Sars-Cov-2 is “unlikely to be eliminated, let alone eradicated; it will probably continue to circulate indefinitely in periodic outbreaks and endemics”, they said.
17-12-2021||India||Understanding the global Omicron threat||On Wednesday, the World Health Organization (WHO) said that preliminary evidence appears to indicate that vaccines may be less effective against infection and transmission linked to the Omicron variant of Sars-CoV-2, which also carries a “higher risk of re-infection”. According to data compiled by GISAID, a global science initiative that provides open-access to genomic data of influenza viruses, a total of 60 countries have so far submitted to it sequencing data that shows the presence of this highly mutated variant on their shores.With its ability to evade vaccines and higher transmissibility, the new variant has sparked concerns that it could drag the fight against the pandemic back several months.The expanding global spread of OmicronOf the 60 countries that have confirmed Omicron infections to GISAID, the United Kingdom has the largest share with 4,120 confirmed sequences of the variant till December 13, the latest date for which this information is available. It is followed by South Africa with 1,000 samples, the United States with 321 samples, Denmark with 216, and Switzerland with 125.A better picture is provided by looking at the share of Omicron in all cases in these countries in this period. South Africa, unsurprisingly, with 90.1% of all infections being Omicron features among the top, closely behind Mozambique where the heavily mutated variant constituted 94.4% of all samples sequenced.To be sure, the Delta variant still easily remains the world’s most dominant variant, accounting for 97.9% of the nearly 3.17 million genome sequences uploaded in the four weeks ending December 13 to GISAID. But the real cause of worry is that despite Omicron barely being flagged in even half GISAID’s 60-day sample period, it has already outstripped the combined proportion of the Alpha, Beta and Gamma variants. A total of 6,700 samples – about 2.1% – were Omicron and the other three variants of concern together numbered 22, less than 0.01% each in GISAID’s database.A week ago, Delta’s share was 99.2% while Omicron’s share was 0.4% in the same database.Regions where the new variant is taking hold are not faring wellA key characteristic of Omicron that has been observed is that it can lead to a massive spike in new cases. For instance, in South Africa, on average, there have been 22,852 new Covid-19 cases every day in the past week – far surpassing the previous peak of 19,766 cases a day in the first week of July this year.South Africa, however, is far from being the only that has seen a record spike at the same time that Omicron infections have seen a spike. On Wednesday, the United Kingdom recorded 78,610 new Covid-19 cases — the highest in a single day since the start of the pandemic. This has pushed the seven-day average of daily infections to 57,417 – just below the peak of 59,508 touched on January 8.Similar peaks can be seen even in smaller countries such as Norway and South Korea where the share of Omicron cases in the overall new infection tally has been rising in recent days. In each of these countries, the seven-day average of daily infections is currently at the highest ever , according to data gathered by Our World in Data. In Norway, there has been an average of 4,925 new cases a day in the past week, while in South Korea this number is 6,790.The corresponding charts also show that the share of Omicron cases have been increasing at the same time in these countries.Omicron appears to be single-handedly capable of pushing new wavesTo truly understand the impact that Omicron can have on the outbreak in a region, it is crucial to look at how these infections are changing the outlook of the Covid wave. Very few countries (or even localised regions) consistently release data on the spread of particular variant. This exercise is generally done so by extrapolating genome sequencing data on the overall case turnout. This system is utilised by agencies such as the US’ Centers for Disease Control and Prevention to determine a prevalence of a variant — on Wednesday, it estimated that 2.9% of new Covid cases emerging in America were Omicron.However, one advantage that Omicron’s heavily mutated nature offers is that in a widely used RT-PCR test, one of the three target genes is not detected (called S-gene dropout) and this can therefore be used as marker for this variant, while sequencing is awaited. Using this approach, some regions have been tracking this variant at near real-time, offering early clues on how prevalent it is.In London, the prevalence for Omicron cases (those with S-gene dropout) has been steadily rising. In the past week, 38.4% of all infections in the British capital have been Omicron cases. But what is even more alarming is that on a daily level, this proportion is rising fast — on December 12 (latest date for which data is available) 1,669 of the city’s 2,779 Covid cases were Omicron (60.1%), according to data released by the UK Health Security Agency. Similarly, this proportion is also rising in Denmark (the only other major region which is currently publicly releasing S-gene dropout data). In just 10 days between December 1 and December 11, daily Omicron proportion has gone from 1.6% to 15.6%, data shows.In both these regions, a worrying trend is that Omicron appears to be the cause of the spike in new infections as the new cases of the other variants appear to be stagnant.
17-12-2021||India||SC nod to bullock cart races in Maharashtra||The Supreme Court on Thursday allowed the resumption of bullock cart racing in Maharashtra, which was banned by the Bombay high court in 2017, as it observed that the tradition sport is going on in other states across the country.A bench headed by Justice A M Khanwilkar also observed that the validity of provisions of the state amendment in the Prevention of Cruelty to Animals Act, 1960, and the rules framed by Maharashtra, which re-introduced the bullock cart race in the state in a regulated manner, ought to operate during the pendency petitions as the entire matter had been referred to a Constitution bench.The law was stalled by the Bombay high court in October 2017 on the basis of a 2014 Supreme Court judgment which prohibited the use of bulls for any sport or race. “It does not appeal to common sense that all across the country, the bullock cart race is permitted but not in one state. This court had applied its mind to these laws while referring the matter to a Constitution bench….We are on a limited issue whether to stop the race across the country or permit it for Maharashtra as well,” the bench, also comprising justices Dinesh Maheshwari and CT Ravikumar, said. The bench’s remarks came after senior advocate Mukul Rohatgi, appearing for the state, pointed out that the sport was allowed in states like Karnataka and Tamil Nadu under similar laws passed by the respective state governments. These laws, Rohtagi said, were not stayed by the top court when separate petitions were filed against them in 2017. In 2018, the laws passed by the three states permitting bullock cart races were referred to a Constitution bench of five judges to ascertain whether they had overcome the 2014 top court judgement. The state’s plea to resume the sport was opposed by several NGOs and animal rights activists. Appearing for one such NGO, senior advocate Anand Grover said the 2014 top court judgment had held such races to be illegal and that state laws do not overcome the “unconstitutionality” imposed by that judgment. The court said that this aspect would be reviewed by the Constitution bench and allowed the parties to approach the chief justice of India (CJI) for urgent hearing of the matter listed before a larger bench.“Unless there are changed circumstances, we see no reason why similar treatment should not be extended to all states where the same dispensation applies with regard to the amended provisions of law,” the court noted.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/sc-nod-to-bullock-cart-races-in-maharashtra-101639680713963.html
17-12-2021||India||India marks 50 years of 1971 victory||Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Thursday led the nation in paying tribute to the heroes of the 1971 India-Pakistan war and marking 50 years of victory in the third war with the neighbour that led to the liberation of Bangladesh and is globally recognised as a glorious and unforgettable chapter in India’s military history.Pakistan’s unconditional surrender involving 93,000 soldiers was the biggest in the world after the Second World War.A solemn ceremony was organised at the National War Memorial at India Gate to commemorate the golden jubilee of the war that gave India a new generation of heroes and forever altered the history and geography of south Asia. It also marked the culmination of the year-long Swarnim Vijay Varsh Celebrations of the spectacular victory achieved under the leadership of then PM Indira Gandhi and army chief General (later Field Marshal) Sam Manekshaw.“On this special day of Vijay Diwas, I had the honour of paying my respects at the National War Memorial and merging into the Eternal Flame, the four Vijay Mashaals which traversed across the length and breadth of the country over the course of last one year,” the PM wrote on Twitter.The ceremony was attended by defence minister Rajnath Singh, army chief General Manoj Mukund Naravane, Indian Air Force (IAF) chief Air Chief Marshal Vivek Ram Chaudhari, navy chief Admiral R Hari Kumar and other top military officials. Late chief of defence staff (CDS) General Bipin Rawat, who was also scheduled to attend the event, was killed in a helicopter crash last week along with 13 others.As a part of the Swarnim Vijay Varsh celebrations to commemorate the war’s golden jubilee, the PM — exactly a year ago on December 16, 2020 — lit the Swarnim Vijay Mashaal from the eternal flame at the National War Memorial along with four flames that later travelled across the country.“Since then, these four flames have traversed across the length and breadth of the country, including to Siachen, Kanyakumari, Andaman and Nicobar Islands, Longewala, Rann of Kutch, Agartala etc (before returning to Delhi). The flames were taken to key battle areas and also to the houses of gallantry award winners and veterans of the 1971 war,” the government said in a statement.Modi on Thursday merged the four flames with the eternal flame at the war memorial during the reception ceremony of the Swarnim Vijay Mashaals.Families of the 1971 war heroes appreciated the government’s gesture to celebrate the golden jubilee in a big way. Mukesh Khetarpal, the brother of one of India’s greatest war heroes 2/Lieutenant Arun Khetarpal, said it was humbling to see that even after 50 years, the country still remembered the heroes, including Arun.Arun is among the only 21 Indian soldiers decorated with the Param Vir Ckakra (PVC), India’s highest wartime military honour, for their wartime heroism in independent India’s history.Arun was only 21, and commissioned in Poona Horse only six months before the war began, when he destroyed seven Pakistani Patton tanks in the Battle of Basantar fought exactly 50 years ago on December 16, 1971.Rajnath Singh recalled the courage and sacrifice of soldiers in the war. “On the occasion of Swarnim Vijay Diwas, we remember the courage and sacrifice of our armed forces during the 1971 war. The 1971 war is the golden chapter in India’s military history. We are proud of our armed forces and their achievements,” he said.Singh also unveiled a commemorative stamp marking the golden jubilee. December 16 is celebrated as Vijay Diwas every year to mark Pakistan’s surrender and India’s decisive victory. The 13-day war ended on December 16 with the creation of Bangladesh, and the Indian Army taking 93,000 Pakistanis as prisoners of war. “The 1971 war was commenced with Pakistan launching pre-emptive strikes on a large number of IAF bases... Offensive action by the Indian armed forces led to the capture of Dhaka, surrender of around 93,000 Pakistani soldiers and the emergence of Bangladesh as an independent Nation,” the defence ministry said in a statement.On December 12, the defence minister said the atrocities committed on the people of then East Pakistan were a threat to entire humanity and it was India’s responsibility to liberate them.He was referring to the barbarism carried out by the Pakistan army under Operation Searchlight, a crackdown to crush the voices of self-determination.He said that the 1971 war was among the most decisive wars in the world after the two World Wars. “This war tells us that the partition of India on the basis of religion was a historic mistake. Pakistan was born in the name of one religion but it could not remain one. After the defeat in 1971, it is continuously fighting a proxy war…We won in a direct war and the victory will be ours in indirect war as well,” he added.
17-12-2021||India||HT This Day: Dec 17, 2002: Mumbai’s Taj Mahal turns 100||It was on this day a century ago, that Bombay’s Taj Mahal Hotel first opened its doors. It has since gone on to give its name to India’s largest hotel chain and has often appeared on lists of the world’s best hotels. And as it completes its centenary, it is probably the oldest luxury hotel in India to still be operational under the original owners. The Taj is, of course, Tata-owned and traditionally the profits that the Tatas make from the hotel have always gone to charity. The benevolence is not surprising considering that the hotel was never built for commercial reasons. According to legend, Sir Jamsetji Tata went to visit an English friend at the Yacht Club, then Bombay’s classiest place to stay. But the Club had a ‘whites only’ policy and Jamsetji, despite his knighthood, was barred from entering its premises. Furious, he vowed to build a hotel next to the club that would be so grand that nobody would even look at the Yacht Club again. And so, he built the Taj. These days the Yacht Club is a rather pale shadow of its former self while the Taj has grown to expand a new skyscraper wing. So Jamsetji did get his revenge. Unfortunately there is no official corroboration for this story but it is so delightful, that people believe it anyway.But then many legends surround the Taj. There is the false story that the hotel was designed by a French architect who sent his plans by post. The contractors got it wrong and built the hotel back to front. When the architect finally made it to India, the story goes; he was so heartbroken that he threw himself off the roof of the Taj to a tragic death. In fact the original plans for the Taj have been located and they show that it was designed by a Bombay firm. The Swadeshi spirit was maintained in the sign that the hotel placed outside its door (in response to apartheid) ‘No Dogs and South Africans allowed’. The Taj plans a year of celebrations. There will be parties, events, exhibitions and two books, one on the Taj and the other on the group. It promises a centenary to remember.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/htthis-day-dec-17-2002-mumbai-s-taj-mahal-turns-100-101639680711843.html
17-12-2021||India||Akhilesh, uncle Shivpal form alliance ahead of UP elections||A five-year-old feud within Uttar Pradesh’s influential Yadav family finally ended on Thursday with Samajwadi Party chief Akhilesh Yadav announcing an alliance with his estranged uncle Shivpal Yadav for the upcoming state polls.Akhilesh drove to Shivpal’s residence in Lucknow and later tweeted a photo with his uncle, who left the SP and formed the Pragatisheel Samajwadi Party-Lohia (PSP-L) in 2019.”Met PSP-L national president and the alliance has been decided. The policy of taking along regional parties has continuously strengthened Samajwadi Party and taking the SP and alliance partners towards historic victory,” said Akhilesh.Later in the day, Shivpal also tweeted the picture of the two. "Today the Samajwadi Party national president Akhilesh Yadav ji had a courtesy meeting with me at (my) residence. During the meeting, I had a long discussion with him over the strategy of contesting the forthcoming assembly elections 2022 together,” he said.This is the sixth alliance forged by the SP, which is aiming to dislodge the Bharatiya Janata Party from power in Uttar Pradesh in elections scheduled early next year. On November 3, Akhilesh had hinted about an alliance with PSP-L at his ancestral village Saifai in Etawah district of UP. Shivpal, the younger brother of Akhilesh’s father and SP founder Mulayam Singh Yadav, was considered a top leader of the SP and served as a senior minister when Akhilesh was chief minister between 2012 and 2017.But the two leaders had a bitter fallout over control of the party before the 2017 assembly elections. Beginning August 2016, both leaders hurled verbal barbs at each other for months, eventually leading to more dissension in the party and its poor performance in the 2017 assembly elections, when it was routed from everywhere except its pocket boroughs in central UP.Shivpal floated the PSP-L before the 2019 Lok Sabha elections. He contested against SP candidate and then sitting MP Akshay Yadav from Firozabad. However, both lost as the BJP wrested the seat from the SP. Shivpal has had limited electoral success but continues to wield influence in districts like Etawah, Mainpuri, Forozabad, Agra and Mathura.On Thursday, as the two leaders came together, hundreds of supporters of both parties gathered outside Shivpal’s residence, raising the slogan “chacha bhatija zindabad (long live the uncle and nephew)”.“This is a happy and positive political development. This will strengthen the anti-BJP forces and consolidate the Lohiawadi and socialist movement in the country. Shivpalji had always been trying for this alliance for removal of the BJP,” said Deepak Mishra, a PSP-L leader.Samajwadi Party state spokesperson Rajendra Chaudhary said “Akhilesh Yadav ji is allying with small, regional parties. And SP will form the next government”.
17-12-2021||India||CBI files charge sheet on retired Allahabad HC judge in graft case||The Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI) has filed a charge sheet against retired judge of the Allahabad high court justice Narayan Shukla and others in its judicial corruption probe involving Lucknow-based Prasad Institute of Medical Sciences, people familiar with the development said on Thursday.The charge sheet was filed earlier this week in the court of special judge Anil Kumar Sisodia at Rouse Avenue Court in Delhi under Prevention of Corruption Act and criminal conspiracy charges. The court listed the matter for December 20.As first reported by HT on November 12, the central agency sought prosecution sanction against Shukla upon completing its investigation. The government accorded the sanction in November last week, enabling the CBI to submit the charge sheet in court.Officials who didn’t want to be named said they presented “sufficient evidence” against Shukla and others in the final report (charge sheet).Shukla, who retired from service in July 2020, is accused of taking a bribe for passing an order that favoured the Lucknow-based medical college, which was disbarred in May 2017 from admitting students by the Medical Council of India (MCI), the country’s medical education regulator.He was under investigation for criminal conspiracy, sections of the Prevention of Corruption Act which deal with accepting bribes, and criminal misconduct along with retired Orissa high court judge IM Quddusi, Bhagwan Prasad Yadav, and Palash Yadav of Prasad Education Trust, an intermediary, Bhawana Pandey and another alleged middleman Sudhir Giri. In all, two first information reports (FIRs) were filed in the Prasad Education Trust matter – first in September 2017 naming Quddusi and the middlemen and another in December 2019.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/cbi-files-charge-sheet-on-retired-allahabad-hc-judge-in-graft-case-101639680659515.html
17-12-2021||India||Need to take agriculture out of lab and link it with nature: PM Modi||Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Thursday asked farmers to adopt natural farming techniques to ensure better produce and longevity of the soil while stressing on the need to take agriculture out of the chemistry lab and connect it with the nature’s lab.Addressing farmers and scientists virtually during the three-day national conclave on natural farming, held in Gujarat’s Anand, Modi said though the world has progressed technologically, it has also been connected to its roots and this should be adopted in farming too.“We have to take agriculture out of the chemistry lab and connect it to the lab of nature. When I talk about nature’s laboratory, it is completely science-based. Today, the more modern the world is becoming, the more it is moving towards ‘back to basic’. It means connecting with your roots. We not only need to re-learn the ancient knowledge of agriculture, but also need to sharpen it for modern times. In this direction, we have to do fresh research and mould ancient knowledge into the modern scientific frame,” the prime minister said. Modi also recalled that at the climate change conference (COP26) in Glasgow last month, he had called upon the world to make “Lifestyle for Environment” i.e. LIFE a global mission. India and its farmers are going to lead in this regard in the 21st century, the PM said.“There is no doubt that fertilisers led to green revolution. But this is also true that we have to keep working on alternatives. The main reason for this is we have to import fertilisers for other countries, which increases the cost of farming. Hence, there is a need to be aware (about natural farming),” Modi said.He also urged the Indian Council of Agricultural Research and other institutions as well as agricultural universities to adopt the concept of ‘Lab to Land’.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/need-to-take-agriculture-out-of-lab-and-link-it-with-nature-pmmodi-101639680655836.html
17-12-2021||India||No deaths due to O2 shortage during second wave: UP govt in assembly||he Uttar Pradesh government on Thursday told the legislative council (Vidhan Parishad) that no deaths due to the lack of oxygen were reported in the state during the second wave of the Covid-19 pandemic between April and May this year.It added that the death certificates of more than 20,000 people who succumbed to the virus made no mention of “death due to lack of oxygen”.“The state did not report any death due to lack of oxygen,” health minister Jai Pratap Singh said in response to a query by Congress Member of Legislative Council (MLC) Deepak Singh, during the Question Hour.The MLC had sought the government’s response on alleged claims by ministers that Covid-19 patients were dying due to lack of oxygen in the state.“Many ministers wrote letters saying deaths are taking place due to lack of oxygen in the state. Several MPs had also made such complaints. Many incidents of deaths due to lack of oxygen had come to light. Is there any information with the government about these deaths in the entire state? Did the government not see the bodies floating in the Ganga and people suffering due to lack of oxygen?” he asked..Rejecting the government’s claims, Samajwadi Party MLC and state spokesperson Rajendra Chaudhary said: “Barring the government, all know the truth behind Covid deaths. This government is unaware.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/no-deaths-due-to-o2-shortage-duringsecond-wave-up-govt-in-assembly-101639680654568.html
17-12-2021||India||Government drops four clauses from draft electricity bill||New Delhi: The Union government has dropped at least four major clauses from the draft Electricity (amendment) Bill, 2021 after receiving objections from various stakeholders, including the farmers, state-owned distribution companies and power utility staff associations, according to senior officials in the power ministry. The Centre has dropped the clause of direct benefit transfer (DBT) on power subsidies from the proposed bill besides dropping the provision of creating a new “Electricity Contract Enforcement Authority” that was supposed to adjudicate on contracts, senior ministry officials told HT, on condition of anonymity. These changes will soon be tabled before the Union Cabinet for approval, they said.The introduction of the DBT system for power subsidies in the draft bill could have most adversely impacted the end-consumers, who would have had to pay the unsubsidised bill to discoms (state government-owned power distribution companies) first and the state governments were then required to pay subsidies directly to the consumers. This clause saw a lot of criticism from the farmers. At present, states provide a number of subsidies to consumers, almost all of which fall in the agricultural and below poverty line (BPL) segments. Under the existing system, the end consumer does not have to pay for the subsidy amount, which is borne by the state governments. The bill, senior officials told HT, is unlikely to the tabled in the ongoing session of Parliament. This is because according to the agreement between Samyukt Kisan Morcha (SKM), one of the key farmer unions that protested against the now repealed farm laws for over a year, and the Centre, the government will now discuss the Electricity (Amendment) Bill 2021 with farmers before it is tabled in Parliament. Power ministry officials also clarified that all existing power distribution companies will continue to operate as usual even after the bill becomes an Act. “The existing distribution companies shall continue to operate as they are at present. No change has been proposed in the structure of the existing distribution company. Similar to delicensing of electricity generation, it is proposed to delicense electricity distribution to reduce entry barriers to this segment of the power sector. Delicensing the sector will enable multiple distribution companies to operate in the same area of supply leading to competition and choice to the consumers. There will be requirement of only registration with the appropriate commission,” a senior power ministry official said on condition of anonymity. The clarification assumes significance as the Bill has been opposed by states that own distribution companies, including West Bengal, Tamil Nadu and Kerala. West Bengal chief minister Mamata Banerjee had written to Prime Minister Narendra Modi on June 12 last year, expressing outrage over the draft Bill, which, she said, was an attempt by the Centre to “destroy” the country’s federal structure. The Bill has also witnessed protests by power employees and engineers across the country under the banner of the National Coordination Committee of Electricity Employees and Engineers (NCCOEEE). Explaining the need for the electricity amendment bill, Union power minister RK Singh on December 9 told Parliament that the condition of most state government-owned power distribution companies (discoms) was of “grave concern” as the combined revenue losses of all discoms in the country had climbed up to ₹5,07,416 crore. “Discoms have not been able to pay the generation companies for the power procured, and the outstanding payments to generation companies are estimated to be in excess of ₹156,000 crore. The outstanding dues to renewable generators are around 11 months of revenues,” the power minister said in a written reply to the Lok Sabha. A second senior power ministry official said the concept of distribution sub-licensee has also been dropped. “It is also clarified that the power of appointment to the SERCs will remain with the State Government as per the existing Act. Dispute resolution with respect to contracts etc will remain with the Appropriate Commissions. The Single Selection Committee for appointment of Chairman and Members of SERCs and CERC has also been dropped. The selection process will continue as per the present provisions in the Act,” the official said. “Their (state government-owned discoms) AT&C losses at the end of 2019-20 range from an average of 21% to a maximum of 60.16 %. The gap between average cost of supply (ACS) and average revenue realised (ARR), excluding regulatory assets and Ujwal Discom Assurance Yojana (UDAY) grants, averages 60 paise per unit in 2019-20 and the accumulated losses of all discoms in the country by 2019-20 have risen to ₹507,416 crore,” Singh added. The bill seeks to enable the entry of private firms in distribution, thereby bringing in the benefits of competition. This is currently practiced only in cities such as Ahmedabad, New Delhi and Mumbai. It also intends to allow consumers to have the option of choosing the service provider and switch their power supplier as in the industry. This option of choosing the power supplier, however, is not available even in the three cities mentioned above. 
17-12-2021||India||Judge who gave skin-to-skin ruling not confirmed by SC collegium||The Supreme Court collegium has decided against making Bombay high court judge, justice Pushpa Ganediwala, who delivered controversial rulings last year on “skin-to-skin contact” in the sexual assault of a minor, as a permanent judge in the high court, sparking uncertainty over her future.People familiar with the development told HT that though justice Ganediwala’s name was considered by the collegium in its meeting on Wednesday, there were strong objections by some senior justices against promoting her as a permanent judge.Even as the collegium, in the same meeting, made recommendations for making three other additional judges as permanent judges in the Bombay high court, justice Ganediwala’s name could not find favour with the collegium, the people cited above said. This is the second time this year that she has failed to make the cut for permanent judgeship in the high court.Justice Ganediwala, 52, is currently posted at the Nagpur bench of the high court. Her term as an additional judge ends on February 12 next year, and if the collegium, headed by the Chief Justice of India (CJI) NV Ramana, decides not to make her a permanent judge or extend her term as an additional judge yet again, she will be reverted to being a district judge again in Maharashtra. She can continue as a district judge, if she so chooses, till the age of 60.Besides the CJI, justices Uday U Lalit and AM Khanwilkar are part of the three-member collegium that takes decisions related to appointments, transfer and posting of high court judges.Under the constitutional provisions, an additional judge can be appointed for a maximum of two years, unlike permanent judges, who are appointed till the age of 62. Further, an additional judge can either be made permanent following a recommendation by the collegium to the central government, or the tenure can be extended for up to two years at one go, pending review of the judge’s performance.Justice Ganediwala, who was initially appointed in February 2019, courted controversies after a series of her judgments in January 2020 on the interpretation of the Protection of Children from Sexual Offences (POCSO) Act came under severe criticism.In the first ruling, she held that groping a minor without removing her clothes was not a case of sexual assault but only of molestation, since there was no “skin to skin” contact. In another judgment, the judge ruled that holding the hands of a minor and unzipping one’s trousers in front of her does not amount to “sexual assault”. Both these judgments were recently overruled by a three-judge bench of the Supreme Court.Former CJI KG Balakrishnan told HT: “An additional judge is made permanent after a complete assessment of his or her work. There are various factors that are taken into account before the chief justice takes a decision... Assessment of judgments authored by a judge is just one part of such assessment.”
17-12-2021||India||Fear, hope in Delhi’s new African enclave||Bablu Gupta runs a departmental store in R block of west Delhi’s Mohan Garden with two names displayed on either side. The original name is MH Food mart, but in the last few years, Gupta has added another name – African Food Shop – for the new residents of the colony.Next to Gupta’s shop is Attraction Unisex Saloon, run by a Nigerian man. His customers are mostly people from African nations who have settled in the area in recent years. Some distance away is Franco African, a shop that sells edible items with ties to African nations.The reason: Hundreds of people from various African countries who have settled in Mohan Garden in the past five years, often moving away from other areas like Malviya Nagar after facing humiliation and discrimination, and making the humble neighbourhood Delhi’s new African enclave.Chiyozu, who works at a saloon, said that he directly came to Mohan Garden about three years ago from Nigeria, but his friends were earlier living in Malviya Nagar and Lajpat Nagar.“I live with my wife and daughter. Some of my friends had troubles living in parts of south Delhi. Foreigners like us are assumed to be criminals, who live illegally and do drugs. In south Delhi, that was the problem they faced. The media and police also visited there regularly so there was no privacy,” he said.Local residents said the influx of people from various African countries was due to reasonable rents in the area.“It wasn’t like this until 5-6 years ago. One would hardly see a foreigner on the streets here. Today, you will find around 60-80 shops being run by the foreigners, that cater to people from African nations here,” said Alok Gupta, a member of the A-block Resident Welfare Association.Mohan Garden represents a growing trend in the Capital of people from African nations being forced to move from south Delhi localities such as Khirki Extension, Chhatarpur, Kishangarh and Mehrauli to west Delhi colonies such as Tilak Nagar, Vikaspuri and Mohan Garden. They say the shift was necessitated by hostilities and racism from local residents, who often accused them of being criminals.How Mohan Garden changedA middle-income neighbourhood on the western fringes of the Capital, Mohan Garden was a nondescript area known for its abundant farm land till three decades ago.With the Delhi Metro making its way to nearby Uttam Nagar about 15 years ago, the area quickly developed, becoming an affordable residential colony with land rates much lower than other west Delhi localities such as Janakpuri or Tilak Nagar.About three years ago, local residents started noticing the first foreigners in the area, where rents were often a third of more upscale localities in south Delhi. But many people from African nations said a bigger reason to leave their old neighbourhoods was the everyday discrimination they faced.A 28-year-old man from Nigeria was one of them. The man, who requested anonymity for security reasons, said he worked at a local salon, and shifted to Mohan Garden from Malviya Nagar.“I want to clarify that I am living legally here. I have my papers and carry them round the clock,” he said.The man said he came about three years ago to work at a salon owned by a friend from his native village in Nigeria. “We had a salon in Malviya Nagar, too, but were forced to shut shop as the population of African people decreased in that area. My friend told me that until five years ago, he would get about 10-15 customers daily. But people started leaving the place and shifted here. Business is good here,” he said.He said Mohan Garden was cheaper to live in than Malviya Nagar. “Here, we pay a rent of about ₹8,000- ₹10,000 for a one room set. In south Delhi, it would cost almost three times for the same space. Even shops here are easily available on rent. It is difficult to find spaces and that too at reasonable rates there (Malviya Nagar),” he added.But even in their new home, problems linger. In the last two-and-a half months, Delhi Police caught and deported at least 180 people from African nations who were allegedly living illegally in Mohan Garden. Police said all 180 people overstayed in the country or were involved in crimes.According to police data, since January 2021, police caught around 250 people from African nations living in Mohan Garden and deported them. Last year, the number of similar violators living in Mohan Garden was 18, police added.Officers involved in these operations said they were going door-to-door to check the papers of foreigners. They added that they launched operation “Varchasv” (domination) after receiving complaints from local residents about alleged criminal activities by the African residents.On October 2, police busted a heroin manufacturing unit from a ground-floor building and arrested three men from R Extension Block of Mohan Garden, who were allegedly living on an expired visa. Police recovered 1.3 kg of heroin and claimed there was a factory on the terrace of this building and launched a crackdown against house owners who give their premises on rent to foreigners without getting their documents verified by police.At least 11 persons from Mohan Garden were booked in this connection under Section 188 of the Indian Penal Code (disobedience to order issued by public servant). It is mandatory to conduct tenant verification in Delhi.Some local residents have also been less than welcoming. Anil Aggarwal, president of the R Block RWA said some “greedy locals” were responsible for the influx of foreigners in the area. “The foreigners are ready to pay twice the rent than locals. This is why their numbers have increased. For those living illegally, the rent is much cheaper compared to the other places in Delhi. From a business point of view, it is working. Not all foreigners are involved in crime, but some of them are and the cases are only increasing,” he said.Crime and punishmentThousands of people from various African countries live in Delhi but members of the community battle repeated racist attacks and discrimination at the hands of local residents and politicians.In 2014, a midnight raid by a former Delhi minister Somnath Bharti at the house of some foreigners triggered a huge row. Bharti said he merely accompanied the local residents after receiving complaints of drug smuggling and prostitution racket being run by nine women.In 2016, a 29-year-old Congolese teacher was allegedly beaten to death over a petty dispute in south Delhi’s Kishangarh. The same year, in the twin villages of Rajpur Khurd and Maidan Garhi in Chhatarpur, there were four cases of attacks on African nationals. On September 26,2021, rioting broke out outside the Mohan Garden police station after 100 people from different African countries protested against police and accused them of killing an African national while chasing him.Police say they receive many complaints from local residents against the foreigners in Mohan Garden and its nearby areas such as Uttam Nagar and Dabri.In the first week of November, the police in Dwarka -- the policing district under which Mohan Garden falls -- formed a cell called CAIFAN (Cell Against Illegal Foreigners and Narcotics). The unit has busted at least 200 illegal foreigners and three reported cases of drug smuggling so far. Police claim that in the last two months, CAIFAN has recovered drugs worth ₹120 crore in the international market.“CAIFAN has not been formed to harass legal residents. We are taking action only against those living illegally or without proper documents and indulging in crimes. Our officers are working round the clock and developing intelligence to crack down on illegal activities by foreigners,” said deputy commissioner of police (Dwarka) Shankar Chaudhary.Local residents have cheered the police action and said it will stop Mohan Garden from becoming “infamous as Malviya Nagar”. But the police crackdown has struck fear among many people from African countries, who say they are scared of being targeted.Christian Chinonso, a shopkeeper in Mohan Garden who lives with his wife and children, is one of them, “We have all the necessary papers. We are worried about the high number of foreigners being arrested and deported from here. Police are randomly stopping our people and asking us to produce our papers. I know it is the right thing but this has scared me. I step out only when necessary.”
17-12-2021||India||Opposition continues to seek minister Teni’s removal||The Lok Sabha functioned for less than 20 minutes and the Rajya Sabha for 15 minutes on Thursday as Opposition protests rocked Parliament over the demand to sack Union minister Ajay Mishra ‘Teni’, whose son is facing stringent charges in the Lakhimpur Kheri violence case.Congress leader Rahul Gandhi, who had a chance to ask a question in the Lower House on the micro, small and medium enterprises (MSME) sector, chose to flag the demand instead.“We should be allowed to speak about the murder that was committed in Lakhimpur Kheri, where there was an involvement of the minister and about which it has been said that it was a conspiracy. The minister who killed farmers should resign and should be punished.”As Gandhi continued to press for Mishra’s resignation amid the din, Union parliamentary affairs minister Pralhad Joshi objected. “The members of the Congress party are in the Well but he (Gandhi) want to speak and ask questions. This can’t happen that they will stay in the Well and yet they will talk,” the minister said.Ashish Mishra, the son of Union minister of state for home Ajay Mishra, is facing attempt to murder charges for allegedly mowing down four farmers and a journalist in Lakhimpur Kheri on October 3, when eight people died. On Tuesday, an Uttar Pradesh court added stringent charges to the police complaints against Ashish Mishra and 12 other accused. after a special investigation team (SIT) said the violence was “deliberate, pre-planned conspiracy”. This touched off protests by Opposition parties who demanded that Ajay Mishra should resign for an impartial probe, and stalled Parliament on Wednesday.On Thursday, both Houses started on a sombre note with Rajya Sabha chairman Venkaiah Naidu and Lok Sabha Speaker Om Birla paying tribute to 1971 war heroes and group captain Varun Singh, the only man to have survived the December 8 Mi-17V5 chopper crash that killed 13 people including chief of defence staff General Bipin Rawat, who breathed his last on Wednesday. But disruptions soon took over and many Opposition leaders rushed to the Well and others demanded a debate on the SIT report. Amid chaos in both Houses, the Lok Sabha couldn’t take up the discussion on the Appropriation Bill for supplementary demand for grants and two debates on price rise and climate change were again derailed. But minutes before the adjournment, The Biological Diversity (Amendment) Bill was introduced in the Lower House of Parliament.The Upper House failed to take up the all-important discussion on the Omicron variant and the bill to amend the narcotics act didn’t go through. Rajya Sabha deputy chairman Harivansh managed to start the debate on Omicron variant and pointed out to the Opposition that it demanded a debate on two issues—price rise and Omicron—and both were accepted. The winter session of Parliament began on November 29 but was immediately roiled by protests over the suspension of 12 lawmakers from Opposition parties||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/opposition-continues-to-seek-minister-teni-s-removal-101639680647865.html
