18-12-2021||India||12 more Omicron cases found in Telangana, state tally rises to 20||Telangana has reported a steep increase in the number of cases of the Omicron variant of Coronavirus on Saturday, with as many as 12 international passengers testing positive for the infection.State director of public health G Srinivasa Rao, in an official bulletin, said 12 international passengers from at-risk and non-at-risk countries, who had arrived at the Rajiv Gandhi International Airport at Hyderabad, were found to be positive for Omicron.With this, the total number of international passengers who arrived at RGIA and tested positive for the Omicron variant since December 1, has gone up to 21, which includes the 7-year-old child, who along with his family members, took an onward flight to Kolkata on December 12.“So, the present number of Omicron cases in Telangana stands at 20,” Rao said, adding that the reports of three more passengers are awaited.Out of the 12 passengers who tested positive for the variant on Saturday, nine were of foreign origin and three are of Indian origin. “Of them, six people came from Kenya, two each from Somalia and UAE and one each from Ghana and Tanzania,” the director of health said.Health department officials briefed chief minister K Chandrasekhar Rao about the growing number of Omicron cases in Telangana. However, they said there was no reason for the people to panic and the situation was under control.“But, the chief minister asked the health department authorities to take all precautions to see that the new variant doesn’t spread. He appealed to the people to take all precautions and strictly follow the Covid-19 protocols,” an official release, quoting the chief minister said.In the last 24 hours, as many as 185 new cases of Covid-19 were reported in Telangana, out of 41,484 people tested for the virus. There was only one death during this period. In all, 205 people recovered from Covid-19 in the last 24 hours and at present; there are 3,761 active cases in the state.
18-12-2021||India||Ahead of UP polls, Modi lays ₹36k-cr expressway stone||Prime Minister Narendra Modi praised Uttar Pradesh chief minister Yogi Adityanath on Saturday for boosting development and eliminating crime as he accused political opponents for obstructionism months before the high-stakes elections in the state.Laying the foundation stone of the ₹36,250 crore Ganga Expressway in Shahjahanpur district, Modi paid tribute to freedom fighters and underlined the benefits of a “double-engine” government, a reference to the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) being in power both at the Centre and in the state.“UP plus Yogi bahut hai upyogi (UP plus Yogi is very useful),” Modi said. Adityanath is hoping to steer the BJP to a second consecutive term in India’s most politically important state.Poor law and order triggered an exodus of people from the state earlier, but Adityanath cracked down on criminals and the mafia, Modi said. “In earlier days, as the sun set, people with katta (country-made pistols) used to roam the streets and make the lives of people hell,” the Prime Minister said. “That culture of katta ended under the Adityanath government.”This is the second high-profile expressway project Modi has inaugurated in the poll-bound state in the past 30 days. When completed in 2024, the 594km expressway will be the state’s longest, passing through 12 districts and connecting Meerut in western Uttar Pradesh to Prayagraj in the east.A 3.5km air strip to assist emergency take-off and landing of planes will also be constructed on the expressway in Shahjahanpur. At least one industrial corridor is proposed to be built along it.The expressway will usher in opportunities, employment and growth, Modi said, stressing on the importance of the double-engine BJP government. “The kind of energy and vision required to run a state as big as UP is being shown by this double-engine government,” he said. “This project will not only bring east and west UP closer, but would also reduce travel time between Delhi and Bihar.”Modi attacked political opponents, who had a problem with the country’s “virasat aur vikas (legacy and development)”. “They had a problem with virasat due to vote bank concerns and with vikas to ensure that the poor remained dependent on them,” he said.“These people have a problem with the construction of a grand corridor of Baba Vishwanath in Kashi and with the construction of a grand temple of Lord Ram in Ayodhya,” Modi said. “These people have a problem with the swachhta (cleanliness) campaign of Ganga and these are the ones who question the army’s action against terrorists. They also put the corona vaccine developed by Indian scientists in the dock.”He told the audience that power supply in the state was earlier limited to a few districts but has improved since then. The state government has provided eight million free power connections, Modi said.“Earlier, big-ticket projects were announced only on paper so that these people (opposition) could fill up their treasury. And now, they are being announced to save your money and time,” the Prime Minister said. “Today when bulldozers raze unauthorised properties of mafias, the pain is felt by those patronising them.”The country’s resources belonged to the people and not “a handful of families”, Modi said, while talking of how his government had provided houses to three million people and set aside ₹2 trillion for the purpose.He paid glowing tributes to freedom fighters Ram Prasad Bismil, Ashfaqullah Khan and Roshan Singh, who were born in Shahjahanpur. “Tomorrow is the martyrdom day of Pandit Ram Prasad Bismil, Ashfaqullah Khan and Thakur Roshan Singh. These three sons of Shahjahanpur, who challenged British rule, were hanged on December 19. We owe a huge debt to such heroes who laid down their lives for the country’s freedom,” he said, adding that a grand memorial for the freedom fighters will be built in Shahjahanpur.Soon after the foundation stone laying event, Bahujan Samaj Party (BSP) chief Mayawati said people should be wary of such announcements closer to the elections. “Now, nearer to the elections, despite five years of a double engine government, meaning 10 years in all, the Ganga Expressway has been inaugurated after bifiurcating it in two phases. For long would people continue to be duped by such selfish politics? People need to exercise caution as it is important to do so during elections,” she said in a series of tweets.Samajwadi Party chief Akhilesh Yadav tweeted, “Hathras’ daughter, Lakhimpur farmers, Gorakhpur traders, unsafe women, unemployed youth, daily and backwards all are saying the present government is ‘unupyogi (useless)’ than ‘up-yogi’.”
18-12-2021||India||India, France to jointly make aero engines, says Rajnath Singh||Defence minister Rajnath Singh on Saturday said that France has agreed to jointly manufacture aero engines in India under the government’s strategic partnership model to boost self-reliance in the defence manufacturing sector, his comments coming a day after he held the 3rd annual defence dialogue with his French counterpart Florence Parly.“A big French company will manufacture an engine in India, thus far not made in the country, in collaboration with an Indian firm,” Singh said at an event organised by the Federation of Indian Chambers of Commerce and Industry (FICCI).Singh did not divulge details of the proposed cooperation with France. Aero engines are a glaring capability gap in India’s defence manufacturing sector, with major indigenous flying platforms equipped with imported engines. The strategic partnership model Singh referred to is an important element of the country’s Defence Procurement Procedure, and seeks to provide fillip to the government’s Make in India programme. It aims at bringing high-end military technology into the country, and lays down the template for partnership between Indian companies and foreign military contractors to build advanced platforms. Singh said the current reforms undertaken by the government will help the Indian defence and aerospace sector clock a turnover of ₹five lakh crore by 2047, compared to the current ₹85,000 crore. The steps taken by the government to boost indigenisation include increasing foreign direct investment (FDI) limit from 49% to 74%, notifying two lists of 209 weapons and systems that cannot be imported and creating a separate budget for buying locally made military hardware. “For the security of India, it is necessary that we develop our defence capacity and capability (to a level) that even the most powerful country in the world has to think a thousand times before planning anything that endangers our interests. Our government’s aim is not to attack anyone, but prepare our armed forces to be ready at all times to give a befitting reply to the country’s enemies,” Singh said. Referring to the recent deal with Russia to build assault rifles in the country, the minister said the government was focused on --- Make in India, Make for India and Make for the world. India and Russia on December 6 concluded a much-awaited ₹5,100-crore deal for the joint production of more than 600,000 AK-203 assault rifles at a facility in Uttar Pradesh’s Amethi district. The deal was finalised at the 20th meeting of the India-Russia Inter-Governmental Commission on Military & Military Technical Cooperation (IRIGC-M&MTC) led by Singh and his Russian counterpart Sergey Shoigu.
18-12-2021||India||'Deep-rooted conspiracy': SAD after alleged sacrilege attempt at Golden Temple||Shiromani Akali Dal president Sukhbir Singh Badal on Saturday expressed shock over the alleged attempt to commit sacrilege at the Golden Temple in Punjab’s Amritsar and said there was “clearly a deep-rooted conspiracy" behind it.Sukhbir Singh Badal’s statement came after a man was beaten to death at the Golden Temple for allegedly attempting sacrilege of the Guru Granth Sahib, the holy Sikh scripture, at the sanctum sanctorum."There clearly is a deep-rooted conspiracy behind it. Never since the Mughals, the Masands and Operation Bluestar has the sanctity of Harmandar Sahib been made the target of such outrage. This is beyond belief," Badal said in a statement and added it is impossible to believe it was an act of just one person, according to news agency PTI.The SAD leader said that there seems a "conspiracy to inflict wounds of Sikh minds and to disturb the peace and communal harmony" in the state. He said the incident has left the entire Sikh population in a state of shock.Also read | Man held for ‘throwing’ holy gutka into Golden Temple sarovarBadal also slammed the state government, saying there were strong indications of such a conspiracy being weaved."Only the other day, there was a shocking incident of gutka sahib being thrown in the holy sarovar. After that, the state agencies could not have been unaware of a deep-rooted conspiracy that led to today's shocking sequent of events. But no one did anything nor took any steps to prevent such a heinous crime from happening. What are the intelligence agencies doing?" asked Badal.He was referring to the incident on Wednesday when a man was held for allegedly throwing the handbook of Gurbani into the holy tank of the Golden Temple.Also watch | Sacrilege bid at Amritsar's Golden Temple: accused beaten to death by mob 
18-12-2021||India||Goa Liberation Day 2021: Looking forward to join celebrations, tweets PM Modi||Prime Minister Narendra Modi, who will visit Goa on December 19 to attend the state’s Liberation Day celebrations, said on Saturday he is looking forward to being in the coastal state, adding that his visit will also see inauguration of several development projects.Also Read | Goa Liberation Day 2021: PM Modi to attend independence movement celebrations tomorrow“I look forward to being in Goa tomorrow to join the Goa Liberation Day celebrations. Multiple development projects will also be inaugurated which will positively transform the lives of Goa’s wonderful people,” PM Modi shared on Twitter. I look forward to being in Goa tomorrow to join the Goa Liberation Day celebrations. Multiple development works will also be inaugurated tomorrow which will positively transform the lives of Goa’s wonderful people. https://t.co/cRlDVZhGW5 pic.twitter.com/x2JpRwto1pAccording to a statement by the Prime Minister's Office (PMO), the Liberation Day celebrations will begin at around 3pm at the Dr Shyama Prasad Mukherjee Stadium. This will be followed by unveiling of projects such as the renovated Fort Agauda Jail Museum, Super Speciality Block at Goa Medical College, New South Goa District Hospital, Aviation Skill Development Center at Mopa Airport and the Gas insulated Substation at Dabolim-Navelim, Margao, the PMO said.The Prime Minister's engagements also include the laying of foundation stone of the India International University of Legal Education and Research of Bar Council of India Trust, his office noted further.Meanwhile, Goa CM Pramod Sawant urged people to be seated at the venue by 12:30pm to avoid any inconvenience. Requesting all people attending the Goa Liberation Day Celebrations at Dr Shyama Prasad Mukherjee Stadium on 19 December 2021 to be seated at the venue by 12:30 PM to avoid any inconvenience. https://t.co/7DpqQfe8cbWith ‘deep sense of gratitude’ workers of the ruling Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) also presented invitation to freedom fighters to attend the event, Sawant informed in a subsequent tweet.
18-12-2021||India||Review of VVIP flying protocols after probe report on CDS chopper crash||Air Chief Marshal Vivek Ram Chaudhari on Saturday said that protocols governing VVIP flights will be reviewed after a top inquiry panel submits its report on the Coonoor helicopter crash in which 14 people, including India’s first chief of defence staff (CDS) General Bipin Rawat, were killed. “The VVIP protocols to fly will be reviewed. The review will be based on the findings of the court of inquiry into the crash,” he said on the margins of a graduation parade at the Air Force Academy in Dundigal near Hyderabad Air Marshal Manavendra Singh, the IAF’s senior-most helicopter pilot and currently serving as the Air Officer Commanding-in-Chief of the IAF’s Bengaluru-based Training Command, is probing the CDS chopper crash. Singh has defied death multiple times in his 39-year military career, including once during one of the gravest emergencies in IAF history involving the Russian-origin Mi-17 helicopter. Rawat and the others were killed in a Mi-17V5, an advanced variant of the Mi-17, crash near Coonoor in Tamil Nadu. Those killed included the only survivor of the crash, Group Captain Varun Singh, who died on Wednesday after battling for his life for a week. The others died instantly on December 8. The inquiry into the crash is likely to be concluded in a few weeks. “I wouldn’t like to pre-empt the findings of the court of inquiry as it’s a thorough process. It will investigate every single angle and look into every single aspect of what could’ve gone wrong, and come out with suitable recommendations and findings,” Chaudhari said. The CDS helicopter crash which sent shock waves not only through the Indian military establishment but the entire country, has been dubbed a devastating setback for the ongoing military reforms and raised questions about succession in the armed forces. At this point, it is not clear what went wrong with the helicopter in the final moments of the crash though the weather in the area where it went down did not have good visibility. Rawat was on a visit to the Defence Services Staff College (DSSC) at Wellington to deliver a talk when the chopper crashed. The Mi-17V5 took off from the Sulur air base at 11.48 am, and was scheduled to land in Wellington at 12.15 pm. But the air traffic control at Sulur lost contact with the helicopter at 12.08 pm when it was just seven minutes from its destination. The air force currently operates around 145 such choppers --- considered advanced, reliable and safe. India contracted 151 Mi-17V5 helicopters from Russia, and at least six of them have been lost in accidents since their induction a decade ago. Developed by Russian Helicopters, the Mi-17V5 is designed to carry personnel, cargo and equipment. It can also airdrop assault forces behind enemy lines. The helicopter, capable of day and night missions in adverse weather, is equipped with modern avionics, a self-defence system and advanced features that significantly enhance its survivability. The Mi-17V5, which has an armoured cockpit, can be fitted with rockets, cannons and small arms for offensive roles. It has service ceiling of 6,000 metre, top speed of 250 kmph and a maximum range of 1,180 km with additional fuel tanks. Chaudhari said India was continuously evaluating the threats from Pakistan and China and was well aware of the situation at the borders. “The stand-off with China still continues. Though disengagement of troops has taken place in certain areas in Ladakh, complete disengagement has not taken place. IAF will continue to maintain deployment at forward locations. We are prepared to take on any challenge that we may face in that area,” he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/review-of-vvip-flying-protocols-after-probe-report-on-cds-chopper-crash-101639845970615.html
18-12-2021||India||Belagavi unrest: Maharashtra CM seeks PM Modi's intervention, Karnataka warns ‘miscreants’ | Top developments||Karnataka's Belagavi remained on the edge on Saturday, after clashes erupted Friday night between the police and protestors, who were agitating against the alleged desecration of a Chhatrapati Shivaji statue in Bengaluru.The border town has been a source of dispute between the southern state, and Maharashtra.Here are the latest developments on the fresh faceoff between Karnataka and Maharashtra:(1.) Maharashtra CM Uddhav Thackeray sought Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s intervention to resolve the latest flashpoint. PM Modi should ‘personally look into the heinous act,’ Thackeray said in a statement.Also Read | Ask Karnataka to take action, Thackeray tells PM(2.) Thackeray’s Karnataka counterpart Basavaraj Bommai, meanwhile, said that nobody will be allowed to take law into their hands. Also Read | Karnataka CM Bommai on vandalisation of Sangolli Rayanna statue(3.) The Belagavi Police have arrested as many as 27 people who allegedly desecrated a statue of freedom fighter Sangolli Rayanna in retaliation to the Bengaluru incident.Also Read | Unrest in Karnataka's Belagavi over viral video amid border dispute with Maharashtra, 27 held(4.) Prohibitory measures in the district, which were clamped following the violence, have been extended for 24 hours, from 6am on December 19 to 6am on December 20, the police said. Karnataka | In the wake of protests after the desecration of the Chhatrapati Shivaji Maharaj & Sangolli Rayanna statues last night, a prohibitory order has been extended under Sec 144 CRPC from 6AM on Dec 19 to 6AM on Dec 20 in Belagavi: Dr K. Thiyagarajan, Police Commissioner https://t.co/pmafAddI5l(5). Protests broke out in various parts of Maharashtra against the purported desecration of the Shivaji statue. Videos emerged on social media of protestors, allegedly from the ruling Shiv Sena, vandalising vehicles with Karnataka number plates, in Sangli.(6.) Political parties, too, waded into the controversy. The Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP), which governs Karnataka, questioned the opposition Congress if it would question the Shiv Sena, the latter's alliance partner in the western state. Shiv Sena Goons have indulged in anti-kannada acts in Belagavi. Our Govt will initiate action against these Goons.Will CONgress President @DKShivakumar & Opposition leader @siddaramaiah condemn their partners in Maharashtra?Do they have the courage to stand up for Kannadigas?(7.) Sanjay Raut, the Sena's Rajya Sabha MP, condemned what he described as ‘’angering scenes from Bengaluru.' Raut tweeted: “While on one hand, PM Modi honored Chhatrapati Shivaji Maharaj in Kashi, and on the other hand our Maharaj is insulted in Karnataka.”(8.) Sambhaji Chhatrapti, a descendant of Chhatrapati Shivaji and a BJP MP, also spoke strongly against the purported defacing. “Let’s not forget that the initial development of Bengaluru happened during Shahajiraje’s rule. Government at the Centre and Karnataka State should take serious action against the culprits,” he posted on Twitter.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/belagavi-unrest-maharashtra-cm-seeks-pm-modi-s-intervention-karnataka-warns-miscreants-top-developments-101639841518008.html
18-12-2021||India||Four more cases of Omicron variant detected in Kerala, tally now 11||Four more new cases of the Omicron variant were detected from Kerala on Saturday, taking the overall tally to 11, the state health department said. Two cases of the new variant of the coronavirus were detected from Thiruvananthapuram in patients aged 17 and 44. One case was detected in Malappuram, aged 37 and another case was a 49-year-old patient from Thrissur district. "The 17-year-old patient in Thiruvananthapuram came from the UK while the 44-year-old reached the state from Tunisia in a chartered flight. The patient in Malappuram came from Tanzania while the Thrissur native came from Kenya," Health Minister Veena George said in a release. George said since Kenya and Tunisia were not among the list of high-risk countries, they were asked to isolate themselves. The minister said the 17-year-old boy from the UK reached the state on December 9 along with his father, mother and sister. His grandmother is also in the contact list and all are under treatment. The patient in Malappuram is a south Karnataka native and was admitted to the hospital as he tested positive on arrival on December 13. The new variant was confirmed in the testing conducted at Rajiv Gandhi Centre for Biotechnology here. The state had detected its first Omicron case on December 12 in Ernakulam district when a person who had returned from the UK tested positive. Four more cases of the new variant were confirmed on December 15. Yesterday two cases were confirmed.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/four-more-cases-of-omicron-variant-detected-in-kerala-tally-now-11-101639837932731.html
18-12-2021||India||News updates from HT: India's Omicron tally at 131 as 3 states report new cases and all the latest news||Here are today’s top news, analysis and opinion. Know all about the latest news and other news updates from Hindustan Times.India's Omicron cases at 131 after Maharashtra, Karnataka, Kerala log new infectionsIndia's Omicron cases climbed to 131 after 18 new infections related to the new variant were reported from Maharashtra, Karnataka and Kerala, according to local officials on Saturday. Read moreWill not be mute spectator, Amit Shah on cooperative sectorUnion minister for home affairs and cooperation Amit Shah, on Saturday, said he will not be a mute spectator if politics is being brought while issuing bank guarantees to sugar mills. Read moreAsk Karnataka to take action, Thackeray tells PMVarious parts of Maharashtra on Saturday saw angry reactions after the alleged desecration of the Chhatrapati Shivaji statue in Bengaluru on Friday. Read more'Somewhere down the line, he will have the opportunity': Ganguly reveals an India legend 'was keen on national team job'In November, the Board of Control for Cricket in India (BCCI) named Rahul Dravid as the head coach of the Indian men's team for a contract of two years. Read moreRhea Kapoor throws Christmas party with Masaba Gupta, lets fans know ‘we are all tested’. See picsFashion designer Rhea Kapoor hosted a Christmas dinner party at her house on Friday. Rhea also informed her fans and followers that she and the other people who attended the dinner were all vaccinated. Read more||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/news-updates-from-ht-india-s-omicron-tally-at-119-as-3-states-report-new-cases-and-all-the-latest-news-101639841569767.html
18-12-2021||India||India's Omicron cases rise to 143 after 4 states, including Maharashtra, log new infections||India's Omicron cases climbed to 143 after 30 new infections related to the new variant were reported from Maharashtra, Telangana, Karnataka and Kerala, according to local officials on Saturday.The country on Friday logged the highest single-day rise of 26 cases of the new Omicron variant, even as the Centre advised people to avoid non-essential travel and mass gatherings and keep New Year celebrations low key.In Maharashtra, the state health department said eight more cases of Omicron were detected, which have taken the state’s tally to 48. Four Omicron cases were reported from Mumbai, three from Satara and one case from Pune, the health department said.Also read | Omicron-driven wave likely to arrive early next year, peak in Feb: Expert panelIn Mumbai, three patients were residents of Chhattisgarh, Kerala and Jalgaon in Maharashtra, while one was a resident of the city.A Telangana health department bulletin said the number of Omicron cases in the state rose to 20 as 12 more people tested positive for the new coronavirus variant.It said of the 12 new cases, two were passengers from countries declared "at risk" by the Centre and 10 others came from other nations. Samples of three people are awaited for their Omicron variant status.Karnataka reported six new Omicron cases—five of them were found in educational institutions in Dakshina Kannada and one came back from the United Kingdom—taking the number of such infections in the southern state to 14."Two cluster outbreaks of COVID have been reported from two educational institutions in Dakshina Kannada today: Cluster 1: 14 cases (of which 4 are Omicron). Cluster 2: 19 cases (1 is Omicron). A traveller from UK has also tested positive for Omicron," Karnataka health minister K Sudhakar said in a tweet.The international passenger from the UK and a 19-year-old from one of the clusters are fully vaccinated and the other four are not.Also read | Omicron cases doubling in 1.5 to 3 days in areas with community transmissionKerala’s tally of Omicron cases rose to 11 after four fresh infections were detected from Thiruvananthapuram, Malappuram and from the Thrissur district, according to the state health minister Veena George."The 17-year-old patient in Thiruvananthapuram came from the UK while the 44-year-old reached the state from Tunisia in a chartered flight. The patient in Malappuram came from Tanzania while the Thrissur native came from Kenya," George said in a release.Also read | Experts highlight 1 worrying factor of Omicron, warn of 'inevitable' third waveOn Friday, the Centre also warned the spread of Omicron will outpace the Delta variant where there is community transmission.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/india-s-omicron-cases-rise-to-143-after-4-states-including-maharashtra-log-new-infections-101639839844001.html
18-12-2021||India||DRDO tests Agni P missile for second time, can hit targets at 2,000 km||The Defence Research and Development Organisation (DRDO) on Saturday successfully tested an advanced variant of the Agni class of missiles from the Dr APJ Abdul Kalam Island test facility off the Odisha coast, the defence ministry said. The new generation nuclear-capable ballistic missile, named Agni P, can strike targets at a maximum range of 2,000 km and will further strengthen India’s credible deterrence capabilities, officials said. “Various telemetry, radar, electro-optical stations and ships positioned along the eastern coast tracked and monitored the missile trajectory and parameters. The missile followed a textbook trajectory meeting all mission objectives with high level of accuracy,” the ministry said in a statement. This was the second test of the missile --- it was earlier tested in June. Defence minister Rajnath Singh congratulated DRDO for the successful flight test. It is a canisterised missile with a range between 1,000 and 2,000 km. It comes with significant advancements in technology including composites, propulsion system, and guidance and control mechanisms. The other variants of the Agni missiles developed by DRDO include the 700-km Pakistan-specific Agni-I, the 2,000-km range Agni-II, the 3,000-km range Agni-III, 4,000-km range Agni-IV and the 5,000-km range Agni-V missile. The Agni P test came a week after India successfully tested a new locally-developed anti-tank missile and concluded a series of tests of extended range rockets also developed indigenously, weapons that will inducted into the armed forces shortly. The weapons successfully tested on December 11 were the helicopter launched stand-off anti-tank (SANT) missile and Pinaka extended range (ER) rocket systems. SANT has a range of 10 km. The IAF’s Russian-origin Mi-35 attack helicopters are expected to be equipped with the missile to arm them with the capability to destroy enemy tanks from an improved stand-off range. The existing Russian-origin Shturm missile on the Mi-35 can target tanks at a range of five km. The other weapons on the gunship include rockets of different calibre, 500 kg bombs, 12.7mm guns, and a 23mm cannon. The existing anti-tank missiles developed by DRDO --- the Nag and Helina --- have an effective range of under five km. While the Nag missile is launched from a modified infantry combat vehicle (called the Nag missile carrier or Namica) and has a range of four km, the Helina or helicopter-based Nag is for mounting on the Dhruv advanced light helicopter and can strike targets up to five km away. The new Pinaka rocket system has longer range with reduced length compared to the earlier variant. While Pinaka Mk-1 rockets have a range of 36 km, the ER variant can hit targets more than 48 km away and has been developed as per the requirements of the Indian Army.
18-12-2021||India||IT raids on Samajwadi Party leaders in poll-bound UP are intimidation tactics: Akhilesh||Income tax raids on some Samajwadi Party (SP) leaders considered close to party chief Akhilesh Yadav warmed up the political atmosphere in poll-bound Uttar Pradesh (UP) on Saturday, with Yadav, who is on a tour of Rae Bareli, saying that the BJP was misusing the central agencies. “The BJP too is acting like the Congress did in the past. Turn back the pages and you will see that whenever the Congress had to intimidate anyone, they would misuse the central agencies,” Yadav said in Rae Bareli soon after news about the raids on SP leaders trickled in. Several teams of the income tax department raided offices and residences of the state’s main opposition party leaders who promptly dismissed them as the ruling Bharatiya Janata Party’s coercion tactics just ahead of the elections. According to the information that is available, those leaders whose premises were searched included Jainendra Yadav, a close aide of Akhilesh Yadav. Vishal Khand’s Gomtinagar residence was also searched. Others whose premises were searched were the party’s spokesperson Rajiv Rai (Mau’s Sahadatpura premises) and a prominent contractor Manoj Yadav from Punjabi Bagh locality of Mainpuri, who is also believed to be close to Yadav. “What else could it be,” said Rajiv Rai when journalists asked him if he thought the raids were politically motivated. Income tax search operations are usually carried out on tip-offs about tax evasion. “I am a leader with no criminal record. Yet these raids are being carried out. All I want to tell to my supporters is to maintain calm and give no excuse to the police to make a case against you on the pretext of disturbing law and order,” Rai said while blaming the income tax officials for “unnecessarily” delaying the entire exercise. “I told them to go ahead with the exercise and do it quickly. If they want, they can finish all in 15 minutes. But they are delaying things. They told me that all my friends, acquaintances and family, including those in Bangalore, were under the scanner. But I want to tell them that I won’t be bullied and will continue to help the poor,” he said. The income tax teams and their leaders weren’t available for comment and most other IT officers too refused comment on the raids that are expected to become the latest flashpoint between the ruling BJP and the main opposition Samajwadi Party. There was no reaction from the Bharatiya Janata Party or the state government on the issue so far. “We don’t know anything,” a BJP leader said. Reacting to the raids, Samajwadi Party (SP) national president Akhilesh Yadav said: “Now, the income tax department has jumped into the election fray (from the BJP government’s side).” Addressing a press conference in Rae Bareli before starting his second day of the Vijay Yatra, he quipped: “We were wondering where the IT department was. This (raids on SP leaders) was awaited. Now IT has come, soon ED and other agencies will come in. I had always been saying that as imminent defeat is nagging BJP, such things will begin. And they have begun. Anyone who takes on this government will be victimized. Look at Azam Khan (SP MP who is in jail for land grabbing issue), look at the farmers--what did this BJP government do to them?”Akhilesh said: “Rajiv Rai is our leader. He is a spokesperson of the party. Why did the raid come shortly before the elections? Why did the IT department not act when he submitted his balance sheet and other documents?”The SP leader also said that “socialism is Ramraj” and attacked the BJP over chief minister Yogi Adityanath’s criticism of socialism on Thursday. “The CM said that remove socialism, bring Ramraj. He doesn’t understand that socialism is Ramraj.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/it-raids-on-samajwadi-party-leaders-in-poll-bound-up-are-intimidation-tactics-akhilesh-101639835769813.html
18-12-2021||India||Omicron-driven third wave likely to arrive early next year, peak in Feb: Covid Supermodel panel||There will be definitely a third wave of coronavirus disease (Covid-19) in India once the Omicron variant starts replacing Delta as the dominant strain, according to members of the National Covid-19 Supermodel Committee. Vidyasagar, the head of the Covid Supermodel panel, told news agency ANI that the third wave, driven by Omicron, is likely to arrive early next year and peak in February."Third wave is likely to arrive early next year in India. It should be milder than the second wave due to a large-scale immunity present in the country now. There will definitely be a third wave. Right now, we are at around 7,500 cases per day which is sure to go up once Omicron starts displacing Delta as the dominant variant," ANI quoted Vidyasagar as saying.He, however, said that India witnessing more daily infection than the second Covid wave is “extremely unlikely”. Vidyasagar, who is also a professor at IIT Hyderabad, underlined that the vaccine program was extended to those other than frontline workers when the Delta variant had just hit, suggesting that most of the population was unvaccinated during the start of the second Covid wave.Citing the seroprevalence data in India, the IIT professor further stated only a tiny fraction of the public has not come into contact with the coronavirus."So the third wave will not see as many as daily cases as the second wave. We have also built up our capacity based on that experience, so we should be able to cope without difficulty," he added.Experts highlight 1 worrying factor of Omicron, warn of 'inevitable' third waveVidyasagar said the number of cases would depend on the ability of Omicron to escape vaccine-induced immunity and natural immunity by prior exposure to the virus.“Because these are not known, we have generated various "scenarios," assuming (for example) 100 per cent vaccine protection remains, or only 50 per cent remains, or all of it goes away. The same for natural immunity escape. For each scenario, we project the number of cases that could result," he said, adding that India will not have more than two lakh cases per day in the worst-case scenario.But he cautioned that these are projections and not predictions, which could be made once there is more data to show how it is “behaving” with the Indian population.Another panel member, Maninda Agrawal, said India is expected to report one lakh to two lakh cases per day which will be less than the second wave, reported ANI.Although the UK has high vaccine penetration, Agrawal said, it has low seroprevalence.“The UK also has an older population as well as more problems with obesity etc. This is why yesterday the UK had 93,045 cases while India, with 20 times the population, had 7,145 cases. In my view, people trying to draw inferences about what would happen in India, based on what is happening in the UK, would be making a major error,” Agrawal added, as quoted by ANI.India has detected over 100 cases of Omicron cases so far. NITI Aayog member (Health) Dr V K Paul cited the steep rise in infections in Britain to sound alarm bells during a media briefing on Friday. Paul said the population-level conversion would mean 14 lakh daily Covid cases in India.(With ANI inputs)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/omicron-driven-third-wave-likely-to-arrive-early-next-year-peak-in-feb-covid-supermodel-panel-101639832355830.html
18-12-2021||India||Goa Liberation Day 2021: PM Modi to attend independence movement celebrations tomorrow||Prime Minister Narendra Modi will on Sunday visit Goa to attend Goa Liberation Day celebrations to mark the coastal state’s independence from Portuguese rule.Goa Liberation Day is observed on December 19 every year to mark the success of 'Operation Vijay' undertaken by Indian armed forces that liberated Goa from Portuguese rule.Unlike the rest of India, Goa did not achieve independence on August 15, 1947, and was ruled by the Portuguese for nearly a decade more. Apart from Goa, the Portuguese also ruled Daman, Diu, Dadra, Nagar Haveli and Anjediva Island.As part of the celebrations this year, PM Modi will attend the Goa Liberation Day function at Dr Shyama Prasad Mukherjee Stadium in Taleigao at around 3pm, where he will felicitate freedom fighters and veterans of Operation Vijay, the Prime Minister's Office (PMO) has said.The Prime Minister will also inaugurate several development projects, including the renovated Fort Aguada Jail Museum, Super Speciality Block at Goa Medical College, New South Goa District Hospital, Aviation Skill Development Center at Mopa Airport and the Gas-insulated Substation at Dabolim-Navelim, Margao during his visit.He will also lay the foundation stone for the India International University of Legal Education and Research of Bar Council of India Trust at Goa.At around 2:15pm, PM Modi will also pay floral tributes at Martyr's Memorial at Azad Maidan in Panaji. At around 2:30 pm, he will attend the Sail Parade and flypast at Miramar.Besides these, PM Modi will also release a special cover and special cancellation to mark the commemoration of the Indian armed forces freeing Goa from Portuguese rule.The Prime Minister will also release 'My Stamp' depicting the Hutatma Smarak, which recognises those who laid down their lives during the Goa Liberation Movement, at Patradevi. A 'Meghdoot Post Card' depicting a collage of pictures of different events during the Goa Liberation Struggle will also be presented to the Prime Minister.He will also distribute awards to the best Panchayat/Municipality, Swayampurna Mitras and beneficiaries of the Swayampurna Goa Programme.Notably, Goa is among five states headed for assembly polls early next year.(With agency inputs)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/goa-liberation-day-2021-pm-modi-to-attend-independence-movement-celebrations-tomorrow-101639831585904.html
18-12-2021||India||Avoid gatherings, Christmas and New Year parties, says BMC amid rising Omicron cases||Owing to the threat of a third wave due to the Omicron variant, the Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) on Saturday appealed to citizens to avoid gatherings and not to organise parties for Christmas or New Year’s Eve. The BMC is going to form teams at ward levels to keep an eye on weddings and parties to ensure that Covid-19 norms are followed. According to BMC officials, globally lockdown has been announced owing to spread of the Omicron variant, and to avoid a similar situation in India, Covid-19 appropriate behaviour needs to be followed strictly. The BMC has reiterated that citizens should get fully vaccinated as well as hotels, restaurants and wedding organisers should follow all Covid-19 appropriate norms.In a statement issued on Saturday, the BMC said, “Omicron is spreading rapidly around the world, putting a strain on the health system. Despite repeated appeals by the government and administration to prevent a third wave of Covid-19, it is being observed that Covid-19 norms are not being followed properly in most places, especially, in wedding ceremonies and other ceremonies. Therefore, all citizens are requested to abide by the norms laid down by the government by avoiding crowding, wearing masks and getting fully vaccinated.”The BMC in a statement appealed to citizens to follow the existing rule of 50% capacity in marriage halls and 25% capacity in open lawns. However, in case of more than 1,000 guests, permission will have to be taken from the local district administration, said the BMC.Further, in the backdrop of several public figures from Bollywood testing positive for Covid-19 after a gathering, the BMC in the statement has mentioned that eminent personalities should also ensure following of Covid-19 norms. The statement in this context reads, “Eminent persons who have an impact on society also need to be aware of all the issues. If any rules are found to be broken, the administration has now decided to take drastic action.”In case of Christmas and New Year’s parties, the BMC has appealed to citizens to avoid gatherings or avoid organising parties. It has also once again appealed to commercial establishments to ensure employees of public and private sectors are fully vaccinated.According to BMC officials, if any violation is found when it comes to Covid-19 norms, the state government has empowered the BMC to levy a ₹10,000 fine on such individuals or establishments.On Friday, the city had around 14 Omicron cases-- the highest in Maharashtra. The BMC on Friday had said that the period up to January 15, 2022, will be crucial to understand the spread of the Omicron variant in the city.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/avoid-gatherings-christmas-and-new-year-parties-says-bmc-amid-rising-omicron-cases-101639830969077.html
18-12-2021||India||Omicron: Tamil Nadu urges Centre to issue norms for passengers arriving in state from non ‘at-risk’ countries||The Tamil Nadu government on Saturday wrote to the Union health ministry, urging it to issue fresh guidelines for passengers arriving in the southern state from countries not on India's ‘at-risk’ list for the Omicron (B.1.1.529) variant.The letter was written by Dr TS Selvavinayagam, who heads the Department of Public Health and Preventive Medicine (DPHPM), after Tamil Nadu recorded its first case of the Omicron variant, with a Nigerian national, who arrived in Chennai from Nigeria via Doha, testing positive for it.Also Read | Nigerian man is Tamil Nadu’s first Omicron patientNigeria is not among the more than a dozen countries which are on India's ‘at-risk’ list.“Passengers arriving here should undergo mandatory post-arrival testing for Covid-19, as against the current practice of testing only those coming from ‘at-risk’ nations. 28 passengers, who flew in from various overseas destinations till Friday, were detected with ‘s’ gene drop, indicating infection from the B.1.1.529 variant. Among them, only for were from ‘at-risk’ nations,” Selvavinayagam wrote in his letter to the Rajesh Bhushan, the Union health secretary, according to news agency PTI.He then pointed out that while all protocols are being followed for travellers flying in from the ‘at-risk’ nations, there is no additional protocol for those landing from countries not on the list. “All arrivals in Tamil Nadu from international destinations should be mandatorily tested for Covid-19 upon landing. The ones found infected will be treated as per the existing norms, while boarding of transit flights should be allowed only in case of negative test result. Those who do not have a transit flight but have tested negative should undergo home quarantine for a week, followed by a re-test on the eighth day,” the latter suggested.Selvavinayagam also warned that only 2 per cent of passengers coming from non ‘at-risk’ countries are being tested randomly with RT-PCR. “This allows passengers, who may have contracted Omicron, to leave, thus increasing the possibility of its rapid transmission in the community,” he warned.Also Read | Omicron: From December 20, pre-booking RT-PCR tests mandatory for arrivals from ‘at-risk’ countriesIndia currently has more than 100 infections of Omicron. The detection of the variant led to a further delay in the resumption of regular international passenger flights, which have been under suspension since last March. The ban has now been extended till at least January 31.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/omicron-tamil-nadu-urges-centre-to-issue-fresh-norms-for-passengers-arriving-in-state-from-non-at-risk-nations-101639828455406.html
18-12-2021||India||Ex-SC judge Girish Thakorlal Nanavati, who probed Godhra and anti-Sikh riots, passes away at 86||Former Supreme Court judge Justice Girish Thakorlal Nanavati, who investigated the 1984 anti-Sikh and the 2002 Godhra riots, passed away on Saturday.He was 86.The former Supreme Court judge died of a cardiac failure at 1:15 pm on Saturday in Gujarat, family members said.Nanavati, born on February 17, 1935, was enrolled as an advocate in the Bombay High Court on February 11, 1958. He was appointed as permanent Judge of the Gujarat High Court from July 19, 1979, and transferred to the Orissa High Court on December 14, 1993. Nanavati was appointed as the chief justice of the Orissa High Court with effect from January 31, 1994. He was transferred as Chief Justice of the Karnataka High Court from September 28, 1994. Nanavati was appointed as judge of the Supreme Court with effect from March 6, 1995, and retired on February 16, 2000.Justices Nanavati and Akshay Mehta had in 2014 submitted their final report on the 2002 riots to the then Gujarat chief minister Anandiben Patel. Over 1,000 people, mainly from the minority community, were killed in the violence.The commission was appointed in 2002 by the then chief minister Narendra Modi to probe the riots, that took place after the burning of two coaches of the Sabarmati Express train near the Godhra railway station, in which 59 'karsevaks' died.Nanavati was appointed by the NDA government to probe the 1984 anti-Sikh riots. He was the sole member of the Nanavati commission.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/exsc-judge-girish-thakorlal-nanavati-who-probed-godhra-and-anti-sikh-riots-passes-away-at-86-101639829883582.html
18-12-2021||India||Paika Bidroha: Odisha community demands 1817 rebellion be called first war of independence||The calls for recognising and declaring the ‘Paika Bidroha’, or the rebellion by the Paikas against the British in 1817, as the first war of independence gathered strength in Odisha as the community took out a protest rally in the state for their demands to be met.People belonging to the community held a rally in the capital city of Bhubaneswar on Friday, demonstrating their martial skills with traditional swords and other weapons, demanding the recognition of their ancestors’ rebellion against the British as India’s first war of independence. Currently, the 1857 rebellion or the ‘Sepoy Mutiny’ that began in Meerut is referred to as the first major uprising in the country against the British.Who are ‘Paikas’?The ‘Paikas’ were originally a group of farmer-soldiers who constituted the army of Khurda king and battled against the occupying British forces in 1817 under the leadership of Bakshi Jagabandhu, according to a report by PTI.The rebellion preceded the Sepoy Mutiny of 1857 by at least 40 years and from this rises the demand for recognising this as India’s first war of independence.The Paika rallySeveral members of the community, led by the president of Veera Paika Sangathan Prakash Shrichandran marched from the Barunei shrine to Bhubaneswar. They then proceeded towards the Ekamra Haat in the city where they also held a large meeting, according to a report by local news agency Odishatv.in.The group has also warned of intensifying its agitation if their demands are not met.“Our fight will continue till the Central government gives the status of First War of Independence to ‘Paika Bidroha’… Next time, to make our demands louder, a similar Paika procession will be organised at Red Fort in New Delhi,” Shrichandran told news agency PTI.Reactions in OdishaMeanwhile, the ruling Biju Janata Dal (BJP) in Odisha has extended its support to the cause and pressed the Centre in the past regarding the demands.The party protested inside Parliament during the ongoing Winter Session regarding the recognition of the 1817 rebellion. Several delegations, consisting of party MPs and leaders, have met with the Centre, notably Union minister of state for culture Arjun Ram Meghwal, and submitted their demands.‘Paika rebellion can’t be called the first war’The Centre has, however, said the rebellion can not be called the ‘First War of Independence’ but yielded that the war “set an example for the classes as well as the masses in India to follow later on.”In a written reply to the Rajya Sabha, Union minister of culture G Kishan Reddy said, “Ministry of Culture received a reference from Chief Minister of Odisha through Ministry of Home Affairs requesting for declaration of Paika Rebellion 1817 of Odisha as the first war of independence. The matter was examined in consultation with Indian Council of Historical Research (ICHR) under Ministry of HRD (Now Ministry of Education). As per comments received from ICHR, Paika Rebellion cannot be called the First War of Independence.”“However, from a historical point of view, it can be said that the Paika Bidroha", which was set off in March, 1817 and continued until May, 1825, had set an example for the classes as well as the masses in India to follow later on. Accordingly, considering that this is one of the beginnings of popular uprisings against the British in India, it has been decided to include it as a 'case-study' in the Class VIII history textbook of NCERT, which deals with the 1857 event,” he further noted in the reply.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/paika-bidroha-odisha-community-demands-1817-rebellion-be-called-first-war-of-independence-101639829955740.html
18-12-2021||India||UP+Yogi, bahut upyogi: PM Modi praises Adityanath in poll-bound state||Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Saturday heaped praises on Yogi Adityanath and listed the achievements of the chief minister of Uttar Pradesh, where assembly elections are scheduled to be held next year."UP plus Yogi bahut hai upyogi (Uttar Pradesh plus Yogi have great utility),” he said while addressing a rally after laying the foundation stone of 594-km-long Ganga Expressway in the state’s Shahjahanpur district. The Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP), which is looking to retain power in UP for the second time, has already declared Adityanath as its face in the upcoming assembly elections in the politically crucial state. Also watch | PM Modi showers praise on U.P CM Yogi, Akhilesh hits back with 'useless' jibe 
18-12-2021||India||‘Photos, video show Siddharth Pithani passed on contraband to Sushant Singh Rajput’: Court||Photographs and videos recovered by the Narcotics Control Bureau (NCB) show that Siddharth Pithani was passing contraband material to his flatmate, late actor Sushant Singh Rajput, when they smoked together, the special Narcotics Drugs and Psychotropic Substances (NDPS) court observed while rejecting Pithani’s bail plea. In his detailed order, special NDPS judge DB Mane said the material on record prima facie shows involvement of the applicant , Pithani, in the procurement, transportation, sell, purchase, consumption and preparation of the contraband. “This material on record prima facie establishes the applicant’s involvement in illegal activities - abatement and conspiracy,” the court added. On December 14, the court rejected Pithani’s bail plea. The detailed order became available on Saturday. Pithani was arrested May 26, 2021 after the NCB filed charge-sheet against him. The court said Pithani and Rajput’s housekeeper Dipesh Sawant were using bank application for making payments for drugs purchases, using code words like “Pooja Samagri” as reference in the net banking application. Advocate Taraq Sayyed had argued on behalf of Pithani that his was a case similar to that of Bollywood Actor Shah Rukh Khan’s son Aryan Khan, who has been granted bail by the Bombay High Court. There was no recovery of any contraband material from Pithani as well and there is no evidence in the form of medical test,” Sayyed had said. The court rejected the contention, observing that the facts in the Aryan Khan case and the present case were different and in this case there was prima facie material about financial transactions and Pithani’s involvement in procurement, transaction, sell, purchase, consumption and preparation of the contraband....||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/photos-video-show-siddharth-pithani-passed-on-contraband-to-sushant-singh-rajput-court-101639828570088.html
18-12-2021||India||Experts highlight 1 worrying factor of Omicron, warn of 'inevitable' third wave||The Omicron variant of coronavirus might be less severe but the high transmissibility rate could be a worrying factor, according to health experts. The health experts in India have emphasised the need for a booster dose and Covid-appropriate behaviour to fight the spread of the Omicron variant. They have highlighted that keeping a close watch on the situation and announcing tough preventive measures could be critical in the fight against a possible resurgence of Covid-19."We have seen Covid-19 spread in India after a time lag of 3-4 months from its spread in Western Europe, hence we need to be just as cautious as we were in the second wave,” said Dr G C Khilnani, Chairman Pulmonology, Critical Care and Sleep Medicine, PSRI Hospital, as quoted by ANI.“The protection that vaccination offered against infection also declines with the passage of time. It is time we announce a policy for a booster dose for people with comorbidities," Khilnani added.Scientists identify new drug that could treat COVID-19 pneumonia: LancetDr Sheeba Marwah, Covid-19 nodal officer, Safdarjung Hospital, said Omicron’s rate of replication, 70 times faster than its predecessor, is the cause of worry."Having the propensity to making even the fully vaccinated its prey, we might head toward inevitable third wave," added Marwah.India has detected over 100 cases of Omicron within a month of its identification by South African and Botswanan scientists. NITI Aayog member (Health) Dr V K Paul cited the steep rise in infections in Britain to sound alarm bells during a media briefing on Friday. Paul said the population-level conversion would mean 14 lakh daily Covid cases in India.The Union health ministry advised people to avoid non-essential travel and keep New Year celebrations low-key."As the Omicron variant is spreading very fast across Europe and most parts of the world, there is a need to avoid non-essential travel and mass gatherings and keep festivities low-key," ICMR Director-General Dr Balram Bhargava said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/experts-highlight-1-worrying-factor-of-omicron-warn-of-inevitable-third-wave-101639827267345.html
18-12-2021||India||Back in Amethi, Rahul Gandhi says a 'Hindutvavadi' bathes alone in Ganga||Congress leader Rahul Gandhi on Saturday brought back his ‘Hindu versus Hindutvavadi’ analogy as he described someone bathing alone in the Ganga as one belonging to the second category, while the former would be one who takes crores along in his journey.Addressing a gathering in his former Lok Sabha constituency Amethi along with sister and Congress general secretary Priyanka Gandhi, Rahul also spoke about the true meaning of a Hindu as someone who only follows the path of truth and never converts his fear into violence, hate and anger.“A 'Hindutvavadi' bathes alone in Ganga, while a Hindu bathes with crores of people. (Prime Minister) Narendra Modi says he is a Hindu, but when did he protect the truth? He said he would give two crore youth jobs, where did he do so? He asked people to bang thalis to get rid of Covid… Hindu or Hindutvadi?” the former Congress president was quoted as saying by news agency ANI.#WATCH | A 'Hindutvavadi' bathes alone in Ganga, while a Hindu bathes with crores of people...Narendra Modi says he is a Hindu, but when did he protect truth?...He asked people to bang thalis to get rid of COVID...Hindu or Hindutvadi?: Congress MP Rahul Gandhi in Amethi pic.twitter.com/S51O22YxF9In a widely televised event, Modi was recently seen taking a bath in the Ganga in Varanasi ahead of inaugurating the first phase of the Kashi-Vishwanath corridor in his Lok Sabha constituency."For the first time I saw just one person taking bath in the Ganga, removed Yogi (Adityanath), sidelined Rajnath Singh... The entire world saw only one person was bathing in the Ganga… Remember when Narendra ji was young he fought with a crocodile, I thought he didn't know swimming...struggling with his handsRahul further spoke about the difference between Mahatma Gandhi and his assassin Nathuram Godse. “Mahatma Gandhi spent all his life understanding truth and then there is Godse- a 'Hindutvavadi'. Nobody calls him (Godse) a ‘Mahatma’ (a revered soul) because he killed a Hindu who always spoke the truth… Godse was a coward, a weak man. He could not face his fears,” the Wayanad MP said.“I will tell you the meaning of Hindu. It is someone who only follows the path of truth, the one who never gives up to fear, and the one who never converts his fear into violence, hate and anger... It's best example is Mahatma Gandhi.”“The PM bought farm laws and said they are going to benefit farmers. After one year when all farmers stood together against the laws, the PM had to apologise. We asked about the compensation to be given to farmers’ families who died in the protest, he said no farmers died in the protest.”“You are aware of the situation today. Unemployment and inflation are the biggest questions that neither the CM nor PM will answer. The PM was taking a dip in Ganga a few days ago, but would not talk about unemployment. I will tell you why the youth is deprived of jobs.”“Middle-class people and the poor were badly affected by some of the decisions taken by the PM, which also resulted in large-scale unemployment. Demonetisation, wrongly implicated GST, no help during the Covid-19 crisis are some of the major reasons for unemployment in India,” the Congress leader said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/back-in-amethi-rahul-gandhi-says-a-hindutvavadi-bathes-alone-in-ganga-101639827070670.html
18-12-2021||India||News updates from HT: Delhi Police arrest prime suspect in Rohini court blast case and all the latest news||Here are today’s top news, analysis, and opinion at 5pm. Know all about the latest news and other news updates from Hindustan Times.Rohini court blast case solved, claim Police; prime suspect heldThe Delhi Police on Saturday claimed to have solved the Rohini courtroom IED blast case, after arresting a man in connection with the case. Read more‘We’re very tolerant of criticism': KTR says Munawar Faruqui, Kunal Kamra are welcome to perform in HyderabadDescribing Hyderabad as a ‘truly cosmopolitan’ city, the minister said that the Telangana govt, in fact, receives brickbats everyday from the opposition. Read more'Do you think it is possible?': Ravichandran Ashwin answers whether he can break Muralitharan's 800-wicket world recordThe off-spinner, currently at 427 wickets in 81 Tests, is only eight short of surpassing legendary former captain Kapil Dev. Read moreDid you know Swades was inspired by a 90's show with Ashutosh Gowariker in Shah Rukh Khan's role? Watch hereAshutosh Gowariker's film Swades completed 17 years on Friday. The critically acclaimed film is still considered one of his best works. Read moreMan meets mother after six years, cries while hugging her. WatchThe video of the man hugging his mother and crying while meeting her after six years has left people emotional. Read moreHaving irregular periods? Try these herbal drinksIf you have been facing the problem of irregular periods for quite some time now, you must try these Ayurveda remedies. Read more||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/news-updates-from-ht-delhi-police-arrest-prime-suspect-in-rohini-court-blast-case-and-all-the-latest-news-101639824146712.html
18-12-2021||India||‘Now Income Tax dept has jumped into UP election fray...’: Akhilesh Yadav after raids on SP leaders||Samajwadi Party (SP) national president Akhilesh Yadav reacted to the reported Income Tax department raids on some party leaders and associated members since Saturday morning and said, “Now, Income Tax department has jumped into election fray (from BJP government side).”Akhilesh Yadav was addressing a press conference in Rae Bareli before starting his second day of the Rae Bareli Vijay Yatra. “We were wondering where is the IT department. This (raids on SP leaders) was awaited. Now IT has come, soon ED and other agencies will come in. I had always been saying that as the imminent defeat is nagging BJP, such things would begin. And they have begun. Anyone who takes on this government will be victimised, look at Azam Khan (SP MP who is in jail or land grabbing issue), look at farmers, what this BJP government do to the farmers.”“Now Income Department has come into the election fray. This is not CBI, IT elections. It’s peoples’ election. People have made up their mind to oust this government that has caused Killat, Dikkat, and Zillat (scarcity, adversity, and humiliation) to people”, he said.“Rajiv Rai is our leader, he is a spokesperson of the party. Why did the raid come shortly before the elections? Why doesn’t the IT department act when he must have had submitted his balance sheet and other documents?” Akhilesh also attacked the Congress over the “government tactics of using ED, CBI, IT against rivals” and said, “The BJP is treading the path shown by the Congress. Congress started this culture.”Akhilesh said that “socialism is Ramraj” and attacked BJP over chief minister Yogi Adityanath’s criticism of socialism on Thursday. “The CM said that remove socialism. Bring Ramraj. He doesn’t understand that socialism is Ramraj.”According to people familiar with the matter, the IT department raided the house of one SP affiliate and businessmen Manoj Yadav in Punjabi Bagh locality of Mainpuri, Jainendra Yadav’s residence in Lucknow’s Gomti Nagar, and the party spokesperson and businessman Rajiv Rai’s residence in Mau.Rajiv Rai in Mau, talking to newspersons, said, “This is out of political vendetta. These are IT people and they are raiding all my spots. My Bengaluru house too has been raided. All this is being done out of political vendetta, but we are Samajwadi (socialists) and won’t be intimidated”.He also said, “I’ve no criminal background or black money. I help people and government did not like it. If you do anything, they will make a video, register an FIR, you will fight a case necessarily. There is no use, let the procedure be over”.
18-12-2021||India||‘We’re very tolerant of criticism': KTR says Munawar Faruqui, Kunal Kamra are welcome to perform in Hyderabad||With shows of stand-up comedians Munawar Faruqui and Kunal Kamra cancelled in Bengaluru, Telangana minister KT Rama Rao has described Hyderabad as a city where they, as well as others, can come and perform, saying that the state government is ‘very tolerant’ of all the criticism that it is subjected to.Also Read | After Munawar Faruqui, stand-up comic Kunal Kamra says all shows in Bengaluru cancelledHyderabad, the minister said, is a ‘truly cosmopolitan city.’ We believe in Democracy,We don't cancel shows like other Governments ....@kunalkamra88 , @thevirdas ,You are most welcome to do your show in Hyderabad - Hon'ble Minister @KTRTRS pic.twitter.com/OPiq4kTgBj“In our city, stand-up comedians get an open invite. We don't cancel shows of Munawar Faruqui and Kunal Kamra just because not we're not aligned with them politically. Therefore, we're a truly cosmopolitan city, which is welcoming of all cultures, welcoming of criticism. You can come here, criticise government. In fact, we receive a lot of brickbats from our opposition everyday, but we're very tolerant,” the Telangana urban development and IT minister said at a function.Also Read | Denying Munawar Faruqui his rightsHyderabad welcomes everyone who wants to come here and make the city their home, he further said, adding that with more opportunities and investment, Telangana's capital is ‘truly growing and becoming a global city.’KT Rama Rao, also known by his initials KTR, had a message for Bengaluru as well. “You claim to be a cosmopolitan city, and then you end up taking comedy very seriously. I don't understand all that,” he remarked.Faruqui and Kamra have often been at the receiving end of right-wing groups, who accuse them of insulting Hindu deities in their skits. Last month, the Bengaluru City Police denied permission for Faruqui's show, citing possible ‘law and order problems,’ and also described him as a ‘controversial figure.’Also Read | ‘This is the end’: Comedian Munawar Faruqui after Bengaluru Police cancel showDays later, Kamra, too, announced cancellation of his shows in Karnataka's capital, scheduled across the following 20 days.In January this year, Faruqui and four other comedians were arrested in Madhya Pradesh's Indore. He was granted interim bail by the Supreme Court in February.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/were-very-tolerant-of-criticism-ktr-says-munawar-faqruqui-kunal-kamra-can-perform-in-hyderabad-101639821102564.html
18-12-2021||India||‘How can he join BJP?’: Congress calls out Amarinder Singh’s ‘opportunism’||The Congress on Saturday accused former Punjab chief minister Captain Amarinder Singh of “opportunism” a day after he confirmed his new party, the Punjab Lok Congress, will contest the state assembly elections in alliance with the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP).“Congress gave him everything, how can he join BJP? This is opportunism,” news agency ANI quoted party’s general secretary KC Venugopal as saying.Regarding the assembly elections, he said that the Congress is confident of winning the polls scheduled to be held next year. “Congress will form the government in Punjab. Everybody has the right to speak in a democracy but you will know what happens after results,” he said.Also read | Punjab polls 2022: BJP, Amarinder announce allianceVenugopal’s remarks came after Singh confirmed his pre-poll alliance with the BJP for the upcoming Punjab assembly elections. Union minister and BJP leader Gajendra Singh Shekhawat confirmed on Friday the pact between the two parties was sealed after seven rounds of talks.“The alliance will definitely, 101% win the elections. And winnability will be the main criterion in finalising seats,” Amarinder Singh also told reporters on Friday.While the two parties shared no details on seat sharing, ANI reported on Saturday citing people familiar with the matter that the BJP is likely to be the leading partner and may contest on 70 or 80 seats. The state assembly has 117 seats.The remarks also came after Singh criticised Punjab CM Charanjit Singh Channi and state Congress president Navjot Singh Sidhu after a drone was spotted near the border with Pakistan. On Friday, the Border Security Force (BSF) intercepted a Chinese-made drone from Pakistan near the international border at Punjab’s Ferozpur.“Instead of doing Bhangra all day CM Punjab should advice his home minister to get active and come out of denial mode. Also tell your party president (if he listens to you) to ask his elder brother Imran Khan to stop trying to disturb our border state of Punjab,” Singh tweeted, quoting a news report about the drone.Singh resigned from the state’s top post in September after a year-long feud with Sidhu and announced his political party in October. He officially quit the Congress in November and launched his own political outfit.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/how-can-he-join-bjp-congress-calls-out-amarinder-singh-s-opportunism-101639823065052.html
18-12-2021||India||Rohini court blast case solved, claim police; prime suspect held||The Delhi Police on Saturday claimed to have solved the Rohini courtroom IED blast case, after arresting a man in connection with the case. The suspect was identified with the help of the footage of the CCTV cameras installed at the court complex, officials said. The case was being probed by the special cell team.A senior special cell officer, who did not want to be named, confirmed the arrest but refused to divulge more details on the case by saying that a press briefing is being organised for the same. “We will share details about the suspect and his motive behind the blast during the press briefing,” the officer added.On December 9, a low-intensity improvised explosive device (IED) blast took place at Rohini courtroom number 102, injuring a Delhi Police head constable, who was posted in the courtroom as a niab court. The police initially thought it was an act of terror and began their probe from that angle. They did not rule out the involvement of any individual or a criminal gang behind it.The investigation carried out by the special cell revealed that ammonium nitrate was the explosive substance used in the blast. The IED was assembled in a steel tiffin box and a 12-volt two-wheeler battery was used. The police suspected that the IED was triggered using a remote control.
18-12-2021||India||Reservation quota, security measures. Here’s what Indian Railways is doing for women passengers||The Indian Railways has taken several steps to provide better facilities to women passengers on trains, including giving them seat reservations, Union minister of railways Ashwini Vaishnaw has said.The railways minister added the steps also include safety and security measures for women passengers during their journey.Reservation quota for womenAshwini Vaishnaw said a reservation quota of six berths in sleeper class in long-distance mail and express trains and a reservation quota of six berths in 3AC class of Garib Rath, Rajdhani, Duronto and fully air-conditioned express trains have been earmarked for women passengers. This is irrespective of their age and whether they are travelling alone or in a group of women passengers, he added.Also read | Rlys upgrades Mumbai-Delhi August Kranti Rajdhani Express train with Tejas rakesA combined reservation quota of six to seven lower berths per coach in sleeper class, four to five lower berths per coach each in air-conditioned 3 tier (3AC) and three to four lower berths per coach in Air Conditioned 2 tier (2AC) classes (depending on the number of coaches of that class in the train) has been earmarked for senior citizens, women passengers of 45 years of age and above and pregnant women.Safety, security measuresVaishnaw said their focus is to provide security to women passengers, especially those travelling alone, and to instil a sense of security in them. Teams of women officers and staff have been formed who are well trained and briefed about the objective.The railways minister said the Railway Protection Force (RPF) supplements the efforts of the Government Railway Police (GRP) and the district police to provide better protection and security of passengers.Also read | You can now order 'Sattvik certified' vegetarian food on this trainThe Indian Railways has also taken several other steps in coordination with GRP for the safety and security of passengers, including women, on trains and at stations, the minister said.He said a pan-India initiative "Meri Saheli" was launched by RPF last year in October in order to provide enhanced safety and security to women passengers from the originating station to the destination station.RPF on trainsTrains are escorted by RPF as well as GRP of different states, every day on vulnerable and identified routes and sections, according to the ministerLadies Special trains being operated in metropolitan cities are escorted by women RPF personnel. Train escorting parties on other trains, where escorts are provided, have been briefed to keep an extra vigil on the women passengers travelling alone, ladies coaches en-route and at halting stations.Also read | Like airlines, Indian Railways to now introduce hostesses onboard these trainsDrives are also conducted against the entry of men into the compartments reserved for women and CCTV cameras have been installed in 4,934 coaches and 838 railway stations to enhance the security of passengers.CCTV, social mediaIndian Railways helpline number 139 is operational (24x7) for security-related assistance to passengers in distress. The national transporter is also in touch with passengers, including women, to enhance the security of passengers and to address their security concerns through various social media platforms such as Twitter and Facebook.Frequent announcements are made through the public address system to educate passengers to take precautions against theft, snatching, drugging etc.Also read | Private players can operate Bharat Gaurav trains on tourism circuitVaishnaw also said an emergency talkback system and closed-circuit television surveillance cameras have been provided in ladies compartments and coaches of all newly manufactured Electrical Multiple Unit (EMU) and air-conditioned rakes of Kolkata Metro.State Level Security Committee of Railways (SLSCR) have also been constituted for all states and Union territories under respective director generals of police and commissioners of states and Union territories for regular monitoring and review of security arrangements of the Indian Railways.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/reservation-security-measures-railways-minister-lists-facilities-for-women-101639820797035.html
18-12-2021||India||TN highway blocked amid flash protest by women over food poisoning||A large number of women workers of a company near here, which assembles and manufactures smartphone spares, resorted to a flash protest, blocking the busy Chennai-Bengaluru highway that led to a traffic snarl on Saturday. The protest, which also spilled over to two other locations, affecting traffic on the Chennai-Tirupati route as well for some time, was called off after the intervention of authorities.  Police said employees reported vomiting and diarrhoea after they consumed food provided at the hostel canteen and 132 of them had to be treated at hospitals and except for four people, who continue to be treated, all others have been discharged.An FIR has been filed in connection with the food poisoning and a probe is on, an official said. The Vellavedu hostel could accommodate a 'large number' of people, authorities said adding inspections were held following the incident. It could not be immediately ascertained if the facility was being run complying with all norms stipulated for accommodating workers and ensuring food safety. As 'misinformation' and 'suspicions' spread among employees including rumours that at least two of the affected workers were dead, they resorted to protest, police added. The workers blocked the Chennai-Bengaluru highway off Sunguvarchatiram and authorities including police officials arrived at the spot while the number of protesters swelled. Kancheepuram district collector M Aarthi and police superintendent M Sudhakar held talks with agitators and assured them that workers are safe following which the protest was called off. Standing amid protesting workers, Aarthi made video calls to women employees suspected to be seriously affected and requested the protesters to directly speak to their colleagues. The collector reassured the protesters that all are safe and healthy. The district collector told reporters that a panel would be formed for better monitoring and inspections of facilities used by workers. The company is yet to comment on the matter and it could not be immediately ascertained if the protest had any impact on the firm's routine activities. In view of the protest, many vehicles including cargo trucks were stranded on the highway in Kancheepuram district for at least 11 hours.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/tn-highway-blocked-amid-flash-protest-by-women-over-food-poisoning-101639817353119.html
18-12-2021||India||These states in northwest India to remain in grip of cold wave till December 21||The head of the Indian Meteorological Department (IMD) on Saturday said that cold to severe cold wave conditions will continue to prevail over some parts of northwest India. IMD director general Mrutyunjay Mohapatra told news agency ANI that the night temperatures in Punjab, Haryana, north Rajasthan, and some parts of western Uttar Pradesh and northern Madhya Pradesh were below normal and such conditions will continue to prevail till December 21.“Thereafter the minimum temperatures are expected to slightly rise further & hence abetting the cold wave conditions,” ANI quoted IMD head as saying.Mohapatra noted that the day temperature over northwest India is “markedly below normal”, highlighting the added “adverse impact of below normal day temperature to prevailing cold wave conditions” in the region. He said the day temperature is expected to continue in the below normal category up to December 21.Ladakh’s Dras shivers at -19.1°C as cold wave conditions grip parts of IndiaThe fall in temperature in central and northwest India is due to snowfall in Uttarakhand, Himachal Pradesh and Jammu and Kashmir, a senior IMD official said on Friday. Senior IMD meteorologist PK Saha told news agency PTI that a gradual decline in minimum temperatures by 3 degrees Celsius to 5 degrees Celsius can be expected over most parts of central India in the next four days.“Mercury is going to dip from tomorrow onward in MP. Snowfall in Uttarakhand, Himachal Pradesh and Jammu and Kashmir is bringing cool winds to MP. Shallow to moderate fog is likely to engulf isolated places in 19 MP districts, including Bhopal, Gwalior and Ujjain, on Saturday morning," PTI quoted Saha as saying."The minimum temperature is likely to go below 10 degrees Celsius in large parts of the district in the next few days. Both maximum and minimum temperatures are expected to fall in MP," he added.(with inputs from agencies)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/these-states-in-northwest-india-to-remain-in-grip-of-cold-wave-till-december-21-101639819226547.html
18-12-2021||India||In Shahjahanpur, PM Modi lists 5 boons of new expressways and airports for people of UP||Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Saturday listed five ways in which the new expressways, airports and railway routes will benefit the people of Uttar Pradesh, as he laid the foundation stone of the six-lane Ganga Expressway in Shahjahanpur in the poll-bound state.Also Read | Ganga Expressway: From Meerut to Prayagraj, these cities in UP will benefit from the mega project. All you need to know“This network of expressways in UP, all these new airports and railway routes, together these will beneficial to the people in the following five ways,” PM Modi said, as he addressed the gathering. ये जो आज यूपी में एक्सप्रेसवे का जाल बिछ रहा है, जो नए एयरपोर्ट बनाए जा रहे हैं, नए रेलवे रूट बन रहे हैं, वो यूपी के लोगों के लिए अनेक वरदान एक साथ लेकर आ रहे हैं: PM @narendramodiThe first boon, Prime Minister Modi said, is that these will save a lot of time for commuters. He was referring to the fact that the Ganga Expressway, which will be the longest in Uttar Pradesh upon completion, will link cities such as Meerut, Hapur, Bulandshahr, Amroha, Sambhal, Badaun, Shahjahanpur, Hardoi, Unnao, Rae Bareli, Pratapgarh and Prayagraj.Also Read | UP to soon become most modern state with next-generation infra, says PM ModiThe second boon, according to him, is that these will make travelling a lot easier and convenient for the people. “The third boon is that this infrastructure represent utilisation of UP's resources. The fourth and fifth benefits are that these show the rise in abilities of the state and the all-round prosperity achieved by it, respectively.”Also Read | With Ganga E-way, BJP set to take UP polls fight to western UPSaturday's visit to lay the foundation stone of the Ganga Expressway, which will be built at a cost of around ₹36,200 crore, is PM Modi's first of four to Uttar Pradesh in the coming 10 days. On December 21, he will be in Prayagraj to distribute certificates to 2.5 lakh women beneficiaries of various government schemes.Also Read | E-way, farmers, women workers, Metro: PM Modi to visit UP 4 times this monthDecember 23 will take Prime Minister Modi to his Lok Sabha constituency, Varanasi, where he will launch a slew of projects. Finally, he will be in Kanpur on December 28, to inaugurate the first phase of the city's Metro project, as well as attend the annual convocation ceremony of IIT, Kanpur.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/in-shahjahanpur-pm-modi-lists-5-ways-in-which-expressways-and-airports-will-benefit-people-of-up-101639816969360.html
18-12-2021||India||‘I had to wait in queues with thousands to appear for auditions’: Saqib Wani||He might have made his acting debut as a child artiste in 1998 with Ghar ki Dehleez, but it took actor Saqib Wani almost 20 years to emerge as a promising actor. His breakthrough came with the spy thriller Bard of Blood starring Emraan Hashmi.Despite heavy odds stacked against him, Wani always had his eyes set on acting and Bollywood. Sharing his struggles, the Srinagar lad says, “As I belong to Kashmir, it is extremely hard to foray into the industry with no platform. The lack of support from my father made it even more difficult. It was only because of my late mother that I succeeded in this field.”Before his big break, the 29-year-old had to face hundreds of rejections as he knew nothing about how the industry worked. He elaborates, “We have no platform here (in Kashmir) and nobody can show you the way into Bollywood. I used to go to Delhi and Mumbai only to wait in queues along with thousand others to appear in auditions.”To hone his craft and to learn acting, Wani went to Delhi after completing his MBA. “I went to Delhi in 2017-18 to join theatre and learn acting skills. I was fortunate to attend workshops with legends such as actors Naseeruddin Shah, Irrfan and Vijay Raaz,” he says.Ask him about his hopes for aspiring actors from the Valley and he says, “I want to tell them to learn acting techniques first,” adding, “Our cultural academy is in a slumber (in Kashmir). The launch of film policy is good but it will help when we also have primary casting from here, not just use the land for scouting locations.”“As I belong to Kashmir, it is extremely hard to foray into the industry with no platform. If it wasn’t for my mum’s support, I wouldn’t even be here,” he adds.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/i-had-to-wait-in-queues-with-thousands-to-appear-for-auditions-saqib-wani-101639817047995.html
18-12-2021||India||‘...You have my apology’: Smriti Irani’s heartfelt tribute to soldiers||Union minister Smriti Irani on Friday paid a heartfelt tribute to soldiers and their families while acknowledging that the sacrifices made by them are rarely acknowledged. She was speaking at a literature festival organised by the Army Wives Welfare Association.“Today as a civilian, I am here to say sorry that we do not look at you till such time when a challenge comes upon the country. You not only have my apology but my gratitude on behalf of every Indian,” the women and child development minister said. She made those comments while paying homage to the late chief of defence staff (CDS) General Bipin Rawat, his wife Madhulika Raje Singh Rawat and 11 others who were killed in a helicopter crash near Coonoor on December 8. The minister said soldiers and their families are remembered only when the country faces a challenge or when some tragedy strikes. “We see you only when you step up to take the posthumous honour... We salute you and shower you with petals when a man in uniform comes back home in a box... We, as civilians, presume it’s a given that you’ve chosen to serve the armed forces... For that, you have my apology,” she said. “While we stood to pay homage to Madhulika ji…when I saw her on the pyre with Gen Rawat…as a civilian, I thought we don’t spare all of you a thought…When I say all of you, it’s the wives and the children too, till such time a tragedy strikes. You are unacknowledged by us. And for that, you have my apology,” she said. India’s first CDS General Bipin Rawat, his wife Madhulika Raje Singh Rawat, and 11 others were killed on December 8 when an Indian Air Force (IAF) chopper crashed near Coonor in Tamil Nadu in an air tragedy that shocked the three services and came as a huge setback to the country’s biggest military reforms since Independence.The only survivor of the crash, Group Captain Varun Singh, died on Wednesday.
18-12-2021||India||Goa Forward Party announces pre-poll alliance with Congress||Ahead of the upcoming Goa assembly elections next year, the Goa Forward Party (GFP) has announced its pre-poll alliance with Congress. The two parties held a joint press conference in Goa on Saturday, where the alliance was confirmed.Vijay Sardesai, the president of the Goa Forward Party, said, “We had said in the past that on the eve of Goa's 60th Liberation Day, we will give you an alliance that will re-liberate Goa from these elected autocracies.”Goa Liberation Day is celebrated on December 19 every year to mark the success of 'Operation Vijay' undertaken by the Indian Armed Forces that liberated Goa from Portuguese rule.“Together for Goa,” tweeted the Goa Forward Party from its official handle on Twitter, with a photograph of its leaders joining hands with those of Congress.TOGETHER FOR GOA @INCGoa @Goaforwardparty@RahulGandhi @VijaiSardesai @girishgoa @dineshgrao @PChidambaram_IN @INCIndia  #CHALYAFUDDEM pic.twitter.com/KdqSs22NYVNotably, the Goa Forward Party had earlier been a part of the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP)-led National Democratic Alliance (NDA) and had contested the last state polls together in 2017. However, it left the NDA in 2019, following disagreements with the saffron camp.“The strong anti-BJP sentiment of the people of Goa is now a formidable force,” wrote Sardesai in a tweet on Saturday, shortly after the pre-poll alliance announcement was made. “Liberating Goa is not just our aim, it is every Goemkar’s aim. We will work hard together to end the most corrupt, immoral, and unethical government Goa has ever seen.”Last week, Sardesai was invited by Goa Congress in-charge Dinesh Gundu Rao for a meeting with the grand old party's state unit chief Girish Chodankar, which kickstarted the talks of a pre-poll alliance between the two parties.On November 30, Sardesai met Congress leader Rahul Gandhi and said that he was “proud to be working for the second liberation of Goa with the great-grandson of the person who enabled the first”.“The curse of the communal and anti-Goan Pramod Sawant government will be blown away!” the Goa Forward party president had proclaimed in a tweet.Meanwhile, Congress released earlier this week the first list of eight candidates for the state assembly polls.The party has fielded Tony Rodrigues from the Taleigao assembly seat and Rajesh Verenkar from the Ponda constituency. Former Chief Minister Digambar Kamat and Sudhir Kanolkar will also contest from the Margao assembly seat and the Mapusa assembly seat, respectively.The 2022 Goa elections will be held in February to elect 40 members of the legislative assembly, where 21 seats are needed for a majority.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/goa-forward-party-announces-pre-poll-alliance-with-congress-101639810798335.html
18-12-2021||India||'After all big leaders from Delhi, was waiting for I-T': Akhilesh after tax raid on SP leader Rajeev Rai||Samajwadi Party chief and former Uttar Pradesh chief minister Akhilesh Yadav on Saturday said the income tax raid on the premises of his party leaders is not at all surprising to him and in the days to come, ED, CBI will also come. "Rumours will be spread; conspiracies will be hatched. But that will not stop Samajwadi Party's cycle for moving ahead. They now know that they are finished in the state. And that's why they have sent I-T. And Rajeev Rai has been working day and night for the development of the party. Why now? Had you known about this before, then you could have raided a month before. But only when the election comes, this central agency came to contest election here," Akhilesh said. भाजपा का हार का डर जितना बढ़ता जायेगा, विपक्षियों पर छापों का दौर भी उतना बढ़ता जाएगा फिर भी सपा का रथ व हर कार्यक्रम बदस्तूर चलता जाएगा। अब तो जनता पूरी तरह भाजपा के ख़िलाफ़ विपक्ष के साथ खड़ी है, अब क्या बाइस के लिए भाजपा सरकार उप्र की बाइस करोड़ जनता के यहाँ छापे डालेगी। pic.twitter.com/yerCG1A107"We have seen this before. Hasn't this happened with Azam Khan? With the farmers who were protesting against the farm laws? This is not a new tactic. Congress also did the same and the BJP has no new way," Akhilesh said.Akhilesh also took to Twitter and said raids will now increase as the BJP fears defeat. "Now as the people of Uttar Pradesh stand against BJP, will they raid 22 crore people of the state?" Akhilesh tweeted.Early on Saturday, an I-T team raided the house of Samajwadi Party leader Rajeev Rai. Manoj Yadav was another SP leader who came on I-T radar. Reacting to the raid, Rajeev Rai said to ANI that the government will make a case out of anything. "I have no criminal background or black money. I help people and the government did not like it. This is a result of that. If you do anything, then they will make a video, register an FIR and you will fight a case unnecessarily," the SP leader said.Rajeev Rai is the national spokesperson of the Samajwadi Party. His personal website describes him as the most important person in Team Akhilesh when the party won the election in 2012. He was the Lok Sabha candidate for Ghosi in 2014. Rajeev Rai is also the founder and chairman of AVK Group of Institutions, a chain of institutions in Bengaluru.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/after-all-big-leaders-from-delhi-was-waiting-for-i-t-akhilesh-after-tax-raid-on-sp-leader-rajeev-rai-101639812512247.html
18-12-2021||India||News updates from HT: Ladakh’s Dras shivers at -19.1°C amid cold wave conditions and all the latest news||Ladakh’s Dras shivers at -19.1°C as cold wave conditions grip parts of IndiaAs the mercury drops significantly across several parts of the country, the India Meteorological Department (IMD) has predicted cold wave conditions over the north and northwest part of India. Read moreWhen will India get remaining Rafale jets? IAF chief provides a timelineIndian Air Force (IAF) chief Marshal Vivek Ram Chaudhari on Saturday thanked France for timely deliveries of the Dassault Rafale fighter jets to India and provided a timeline for dispatch of the rest of the twin-engine multirole fighter aircrafts. Read moreKarnataka-Maharashtra dispute: Unrest in Belagavi over viral video, 27 held27 people had been arrested for attacking the Sangolli Rayanna statue in the Belagavi district of Karnataka, informed the police. Read moreAshes: Joe Root surpasses Sachin Tendulkar, Sunil Gavaskar for massive feat in Test cricketEngland captain Joe Root continues his stellar year with the bat in Tests, as he went past India's legendary batters Sachin Tendulkar and Sunil Gavaskar for a massive feat on Saturday. Read moreSpider-Man No Way Home day 2 box office collection: Allu Arjun's Pushpa delivers severe blow, film collects ₹22 croreSpider-Man: No Way Home, starring Tom Holland as the titular superhero, brought back moviegoers to multiplexes in India like no other film as it released on Thursday to a thunderous welcome. Read moreTahira Kashyap's back-to-gym workout video will inspire you to never give up: Sonali Bendre and Bhumi Pednekar reactFilmmaker and author Tahira Kashyap Khurrana is getting back to her gym routine one step at a time, and her latest workout video will have you pumped up too. Watch hereWhy Nitin Gadkari rejected a Reliance tender as Maharashtra state ministerRecalling his stint as the PWD in Maharashtra, Nitin Gadkari said he rejected a tender submitted by Reliance. Watch here||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/news-updates-from-ht-ladakh-s-dras-shivers-at-19-1-c-amid-cold-wave-conditions-101639811265268.html
18-12-2021||India||Agni Prime test successful: All you need to know about new generation missile||India on Saturday successfully test-fired the Agni Prime missile from APJ Abdul Kalam island off the coast of Odisha. Defence minister Rajnath Singh congratulated the Defence Research and Development Organisation (DRDO) for the successful test.The missile test took place at 11.06 am, according to DRDO.The missile followed textbook trajectory and met all mission objectives with high level of accuracy, the DRDO said, adding that the test was being monitored by telemetry, radar, electro-optical stations and downrange ships positioned along the eastern coast.“The missile test met all its mission objectives with a high level of accuracy,” a DRDO official was quoted as saying by news agency ANI.Here’s everything you need to know about the Agni Prime missile:• According to DRDO, it is a two-stage canisterised solid-propellant ballistic missile with dual redundant navigation and guidance system.• Agni P is the first of the new class of Agni missile to be launched by DRDO. It weighs 50 per cent less than Agni 3 and has new guidance and a new generation of propulsion.• Since Agni P is canisterised, it can be launched from rail and road and stored for a longer period and transported all across the country as per operational requirements.• This was the second flight test of the missile and has proven the reliable performance of all the advanced technologies integrated into the system, the DRDO said. The first test took place in June this year.• The missile has a range between 1000km to 2000km, and can be used to target enemy armadas in the Indo-Pacific.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/agni-prime-test-successful-all-you-need-to-know-about-new-generation-missile-101639812225899.html
18-12-2021||India||Several Foxconn workers hospitalised after suspected food poisoning near Chennai: Reports||Several employees of a Foxconn India unit near Chennai fell ill and were hospitalised on Saturday after suspected food poisoning, Reuters reported quoting a source familiar with the matter.According to the report, the food poisoning occurred earlier this week at Foxconn's dormitories where the majority of the workforce stays.It was not immediately clear how many workers are seriously ill and whether the incident would disrupt production at the plant in Sriperumbudur, Reuters reported.According to another report, the incident triggered protests from the workers, who are mostly women as they on Saturday blocked the National Highway. The protest was triggered after there was a rumour that one of the women staff died of food poisoning. Reports said Foxconn denied the news as a rumour and confirmed that those who have been hospitalised are on their way to recovery.Foxconn is a Taiwanese multinational electronics contract manufacturer, which makes iPhones for Apple INC.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/several-foxconn-workers-hospitalised-after-suspected-food-poisoning-near-chennai-reports-101639809820531.html
18-12-2021||India||Ladakh’s Dras shivers at -19.1°C as cold wave conditions grip parts of India||As the mercury drops significantly across several parts of the country, the India Meteorological Department (IMD) has predicted cold wave conditions over the north and northwest part of India.Minimum temperatures are also expected to drop by two to three degrees Celsius in parts of east India and Maharashtra in the next three-four days, the IMD has said.Here are the top 10 coldest places in India at the moment:1. Dras (Ladakh): Dras saw an intensely cold night as the minimum temperature was at minus 19.1 degrees Celsius.2. Pahalgam (Jammu and Kashmir): The mountain resort of Pahalgam recorded a minimum temperature of minus 8.3 degrees Celsius during the night.3. Keylong (Himachal Pradesh): The minimum temperature in Keylong was recorded at minus 8 degrees Celsius. Situated 71km north of Manali via the Atal Tunnel, Keylong is one of the coldest areas of Himachal Pradesh4. Srinagar (Jammu and Kashmir): The summer capital of Jammu and Kashmir recorded the season’s coldest night with minus 6 degrees Celsius.5. Ranichauri (Uttarakhand): In Uttarakhand, Ranichauri recorded the lowest temperature at minus 2.7 degrees Celsius. The night temperature in Mukteshwar stood at 0.2 degrees Celsius, Mussoorie (0.9 degrees Celsius), Pithoragarh (0.9 degree Celsius) and New Tehri (1.4 degrees Celsius).6. Churu (West Rajasthan): The minimum temperature in Rajasthan’s Churu was recorded at minus 1.1 degrees Celsius.7. Amritsar (Punjab): In Amritsar, the minimum temperature dropped to 0.7 degrees Celsius.8. Ganganagar (West Rajasthan): Ganganagar city in west Rajasthan recorded a minimum temperature of 1.1 degrees Celsius.9. Narnaul (Haryana): Haryana’s Narnaul city recorded a minimum temperature of 3 degrees Celsius last night.10. Aya Nagar (New Delhi): Aya Nagar was the coldest area in the national capital with a minimum temperature of 5 degrees Celsius||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/ladakhs-dras-shivers-at-19-1-c-as-cold-wave-conditions-grip-parts-of-india-101639805250039.html
18-12-2021||India||India successfully test-fires new generation Agni Prime missile off Odisha coast||India on Saturday successfully test-fired the Agni Prime missile off the coast of Odisha in Balasore, government officials said.Agni-P is a new generation advanced variant of Agni class of missiles. It is a two-stage canisterised missile with range capability between 1,000 and 2,000 km. This was the second test of the Agni Prime missile. The test was conducted at 11am off the APJ Abdul Kalam island in balasore.An ANI report said a lot of new features have been added to the nuclear-capable strategic missile Agni Prime during this test. #WATCH | Today India successfully testfired the nuclear-capable strategic Agni Prime missile off the coast of Odisha from Balasore.(Source: DRDO) pic.twitter.com/wSgWKOKtQG“The missile test met all its mission objectives with a high level of accuracy,” an official was quoted as saying. The first test was successfully carried out on June 28 at the same place.  Defence minister Rajnath Singh congratulated the Defence and Research Development Organisation (DRDO) for the successful flight test and expressed his happiness over the system's performance. “Test carried out by DRDO at 11.06am. Telemetry, radar, electro-optical stations and downrange ships positioned along eastern coast tracked and monitored missile trajectory and parameters. Missile followed textbook trajectory, meeting all mission objectives with high level of accuracy,” the DRDO said in a statement.The ballistic missile weighs 50 per cent less than Agni 3 and can be launched from rail and road and stored for a longer period and transported all across the country as per operational requirements.On December 7, the country successfully test-fired the air version of the BrahMos supersonic cruise missile that the ministry of defence described as a ‘major milestone’ in BrahMos development.The ministry had said the missile was successfully test-fired from Indian Air Force’s (IAF) Sukhoi 30 MKI supersonic fighter aircraft from the Integrated Test Range (ITR), based in Chandipur, off the coast of Odisha.Around the same time, the Vertically Launched Short Range Surface to Air Missile (VL-SRSAM) was successfully test-fired from the Integrated Test Range (ITR) in Chandipur.According to Defence Research and Development Organisation officials (DRDO), the air defence system can engage targets at around 15km. The VL-SRSAM, indigenously designed and developed by the DRDO for the Indian Navy, is meant for neutralising various aerial threats at close ranges, including sea-skimming targets, the organisation said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/india-successfully-test-fires-new-generation-agni-prime-missile-off-odisha-coast-101639809200382.html
18-12-2021||India||When will India get remaining Rafale jets? IAF chief provides a timeline||Indian Air Force (IAF) chief Marshal Vivek Ram Chaudhari on Saturday thanked France for timely deliveries of the Dassault Rafale fighter jets to India and provided a timeline for dispatch of the rest of the twin-engine multirole fighter aircrafts. Noting that 32 of the 36 promised Rafales have already been delivered, the Air Force Chief said that three of the pending four will be delivered by February next year while the delivery of the remaining one will be done only after all its trials conclude.“As far as discussions on Rafale is concerned, we are thankful to them [France] for the timely deliveries,” said the Chief of the Air Staff (COAS), while addressing reporters. “You know that the contract was for 36 aircrafts, 32 of which have already been delivered. Out of the remaining four, three will arrive on time in February.”Providing a timeline for the delivery of the final Rafale aircraft, the IAF chief said, “The last aircraft, which will have India-specific enhancements, will be delivered after all its trials conclude. We discussed with the defence minister future maintenance issues of Rafale and the setting up of a D-level maintenance facility in India.”Air Chief Marshal Vivek Ram Chaudhari also commented on the ongoing India-China border stand-off, noting that although troops have backed off from certain areas in Ladakh, “complete disengagement has not taken place” yet.“The Air Force will continue to maintain deployment,” he said. “We are prepared to take on any challenge that we may face in the area.”Notably, French defence minister Florence Parly had said a day ago that France is ready to provide additional Rafale fighter jets to India if and when a request is put forward for the same. “We are ready to answer any additional needs or requests that could be made by India,” she said ahead of the all-important 3rd Annual Defence Dialogue with her Indian counterpart Rajnath Singh. “We know that an aircraft carrier will soon be delivered. Aircraft are needed.”Parly also discussed regional security and co-operation in Indo-Pacific with Prime Minister Narendra Modi and defence minister Rajnath Singh.The ministers reviewed the existing military-to-military cooperation, which has increased in spite of pandemic challenges. The ways to increase defence cooperation in all domains were also discussed. They also acknowledged their convergences on a number of strategic and defence issues and expressed commitment to work together to enhance cooperation in bilateral, regional, and multilateral forums.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/when-will-india-get-remaining-rafale-jets-iaf-chief-provides-a-timeline-101639800132926.html
18-12-2021||India||Cigarette packaging used to distribute prasad at Kartarpur gurdwara: Report||The devotees visiting Gurdwara Darbar Sahib in Pakistan’s Kartarpur have accused the authorities there of using disposable paper plates made of cigarette packaging material to distribute prasad.According to Hindustan Times’ sister publication Livehindustan, many devotes have expressed their displeasure on the move, accusing the Pakistan government of playing with religious sentiments of the Sikh community.Some photos doing to rounds on social media show the plates carrying a picture of a cigarette brand ‘Gold Street’, according to Livehindustan. The issue was raised by some devotees who reached the gurdwara recently.Pakistan Sikh Gurdwara Prabandhak Committee (PSGPC) said that the incident was brought to their notice three days ago, according to Livehindustan report.“We never used such a packaging to distribute the prasad at Gurdwara Darbar Sahib. We have carried out an enquiry into the incident and based on that, we can say that this is the doing of some anti-social elements who don’t want Kartarpur Corridor to start,” PSGPC chief Ameer Singh was quoted as saying by Livehindustan.Singh added that the regular prasad is packed and given to the devotees in plain carry bags.However, the Shiromani Gurdwara Prabandhak Committee (SGPC) president Harjinder Singh Dhami said it is a shocking development, if true, Livehindustan reported.Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) leader and former Delhi Sikh Gurdwara Management Committee president Manjinder Singh Sirsa took exception to the reports, terming the incident as ‘sacrilege’.Sirsa urged Pakistan Prime Minister Imran Khan to take serious note of the issue and immediately order registration of case and arrest those responsible for this.Earlier this month, India had summoned the charge d’affaires at the Pakistan high commission in New Delhi and conveyed its deep concern over Pakistani model Sauleha’s photoshoot at Gurdwara Darbar Sahib in Kartarpur, describing it as a “desecration” of the sanctity of the holy place.Sauleha’s “bareheaded” photoshoot for a Pakistani clothing brand at Gurdwara Darbar Sahib set the social media abuzz as many people accused her of hurting the religious sentiments of the Sikh community. The model later deleted her photos from her Instagram page and posted an apology.Pakistan had told Indian officials that it was an “isolated incident” and “was swiftly addressed and clarified”. In a statement, the Pakistan foreign office had said that the country accords highest primacy to the rights of the minorities and sanctity of religious places and revered sites of every community is ensured in Pakistan.Gurdwara Darbar Sahib, located in Pakistan’s Narowal district, is the final resting place of Sikh faith’s founder Guru Nanak, who had spent the last 18 years of his life in Kartarpur.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/cigarette-packaging-used-to-distribute-prasad-at-kartarpur-gurdwara-report-101639807883734.html
18-12-2021||India||Ganga Expressway: From Meerut to Prayagraj, these cities in UP will benefit from the mega project. All you need to know||Prime Minister Narendra Modi will on Saturday lay the foundation stone for the 594-kilometre long six-lane Ganga Expressway from Shahjahanpur in Uttar Pradesh. Built at a cost of more than ₹36,200 crore, it will become the longest expressway in the state, the Yogi Adityanath-led government stated.In a major boost towards the socio-economic development of the region, the Ganga Expressway is set to add to Bharatiya Janata Party's (BJP’s) development narrative ahead of the crucial Uttar Pradesh assembly elections next year.According to the statement released by the Prime Minister’s Office, the expressway is being built on PM Modi’s vision to provide fast paced connectivity across the country. Here’s all you need to know about Ganga Expressway:||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/ganga-expressway-from-meerut-to-prayagraj-these-cities-in-up-will-benefit-from-the-mega-project-all-you-need-to-know-101639802393175.html
18-12-2021||India||‘BJP’s ideology is imported...’: Bhupesh Baghel||Bhupesh Baghel completes three years as Chhattisgarh’s chief minister on Saturday. On eve of it, he spoke to Hindustan Times’ Ritesh Mishra about the achievements of his government and the challenges ahead. He also commented on Congress leader Rahul’s Gandhi’s recent comment on Hindutawadi and mining approvals given by the state government. Here are the edited excerpts of the interview. Q: Which are your main achievements as Chhattisgarh’s chief minister? A: See, the entire country is witnessing farmers’ protests. They are protesting since they are not getting the appropriate value of their crops. However, in Chhattisgarh, be it the farmers or tribals, both are getting their products procured by the government, so both tribals and farmers are satisfied.Secondly, the economically weaker parents are now able to send their children to English medium schools under the ‘Swami Atmanand Government English School’ initiative. Q: Any other achievement or scheme, which you want to specifically mention?A: If I may add the third one, we are serving gaumata (cows) as well. Q: So, do you feel that by serving gaumata, you have gained political mileage in Chhattisgarh? A: Well, we have connected cattle and cows with earning. The cattle used to damage crops and stray cattle on the roads met with accidents. What could have been the solution to this? So, we made plans to deal with these issues we started several schemes from purchasing cow-dung to setting up cowsheds, making vermicompost, generating electricity out of cow dung and providing employment through cow welfare. This is Mahatma Gandhi’s vision of ‘Gram Swarojgar’… We are creating self-reliant villages in the state which is an exemplary achievement in itself. Q: Do you feel these schemes and initiatives related to cows will give you any political benefit?A: You can just see in Uttar Pradesh, the stray cattle are destroying crops and the farmers have to guard their crops throughout the night. The farmers of Chhattisgarh who used to reap one crop annually are now taking two crops in a year due to cow shelter and this is the change now. I meet farmers regularly and they use to tell me that now they are using vermicompost in cultivation. The yield is good and the soil is getting aerated with the use of vermicompost which is good for the fertility of the soil. Q: Many eminent activists and environmentalists wrote a letter to you and urged you to declare Hasdeo Aranya region as a No-Go area for mining. Some activists alleged that your government’s mining policies are quite similar to that of BJP’s. Secondly, your government ignored the biodiversity report of Wildlife Institute of India (WII) Indian Council of Forestry Research and Education (ICFRE) and allegedly gave consent for stage II clearance for Parsa Coal block in Hasdeo Aranya Area, even though you could have denied the consent. So, is your mining policy nothing but BJP’s mining policy in disguise? A: See, firstly, whatever these few activists are saying, it is all based on inputs from the local activists. Secondly, some of the local activists and journalists have become biased on this issue. The zone where Rahul Gandhi addressed people has been declared as an elephant reserve. There is actually no concept of a No-Go area (which Jairam Ramesh started when he was the environment minister in 2010). Show me which legal statute talks about it? There’s no term as No-Go for mining. Let me tell you that all 39 coal blocks which come under the Lemru Elephant Corridor were not allotted by our government. How can they even compare our policies with the BJP’s? And importantly, my government has faced a huge loss due to the ban on mining. The corporates engaged in mining have faced maximum losses during Bhupesh Baghel’s regime. Firstly, the Bailadila project was cancelled by our government and secondly, the mines which we were allotted in Hasdeo Aranya were brought under Lemru Elephant Corridor by us, thirdly the mines which they (corporates) wanted were cancelled by us. I can give you the entire list. They (activists) should clarify their own status and tell us about their standing. Q: So, you are saying these accusations are all baseless and concocted? A: Indeed! These are all frivolous allegations just to bewilder everyone. Moreover, no permissions and clearances were given by my government. Let them show the proof that my government has given consent for Phase II clearance of the Parsa coal block. Q: Your tussle with the Centre over paddy procurement, which is an old dispute, is creating a revenue loss for the government. Recently, your minister in the state assembly said the government has lost ₹500 crore. How you are coping up with financial loss? A: We have repeatedly written to the Union government to permit us to make ethanol out of the surplus paddy. When they can give permissions to sugarcane crops why can’t they give permission for paddy? Be it a loss of the state government or the central government, it is ultimately the country’s loss. Either they take our paddy or allow us to produce ethanol out of it but the Union government is doing nothing. Q: Recently, Rahul Gandhi made a statement making a distinction between Hindu and Hindutavadi. Do you think it was the right time because the assembly elections are around the corner in five states? A: What was wrong in saying that? See, it is quite clear that the ideology which the BJP follows has been imported from the European ideology and influenced by it. Especially the khaki pants, cap, band. Are these Indian uniforms or Indian musical instruments either? We in Congress follow Indian culture and tradition. These (BJP) are the people who are influenced by western culture. Their ideology is of violence and hatred for all those who don’t agree. The true Hindu system, which has survived for thousands of years - in spite of witnessing so many invaders- is such a system that can absorb all these attacks. Congress follows that system.Q: In May, Silger protest started after a firing took place in which three people were killed in Sukma… Recently, you also had a dialogue with them but the protest is still going on. Do you think that your government has failed to address Silger protest? A: This is the very first time when dialogue has taken place after any such incident. None of the governments before this have had any conversation with the people protesting in Bastar. We have sent the Member of Parliament, legislators and also the members of their own community to have a dialogue with them. Is there any example of another government to have called and talked with the journalists or activists regarding these protests? Q: Then why is the protest still going on? A: If I point a gun to your head and tell you to protest, at the very moment, you will sit and protest despite being so educated, isn’t it? So why won’t they sit in protest? Those helpless people have been made to sit to protest at gunpoint. But it is the very first time that the population over there is with us. The camps are established on their demand only.
18-12-2021||India||India's daily Covid tally falls for 2nd consecutive day; new deaths at 289||India continued a downward trend in its daily tally of the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) cases after 7,45 new infectiojns were recorded in a span of 24 hours, according to Union health ministry update. This is the second a second consecutive day that the daily tally has recorded a fall.After today's number, the nationwide caseload reached 34,733,194, according to health ministry's update at 8 am.On Friday, India recorded 7,447 cases, while on Thursday, the 24-hour case count stood at 7,974.Also Read| As Omicron spreads across India, govt lists steps to keep yourself safeNew recoveries from Covid-19 rose by 8,706 in the last 24 hours while 289 more patients died due to the viral disease, taking the cumulative count of recoveries and deaths to 34,171,471 and 477,158 respectively, the health ministry's update also showed.The active cases have come down to 84,565 and constitute 0.25% of the caseload. They have been the lowest since March last year. The overall recovery rate from Covid-19, meanwhile, remains unchanged at 98.38%.The Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR) said on Saturday that 1,245,402 samples were tested for Covid-19 in the last 24 hours and the total number of samples tested has climbed to 662,897,388.The health ministry informed on Friday that the Omicron count in the country has crossed the 100-mark and stands at 111 after the highest single-day rise of 24 cases was recorded.Of the total, Maharashtra and Delhi top the list with 40 and 22 cases of Omicron.The ministry has advised people to avoid non-essential travel and mass gatherings and keep New Year celebrations at low intensity.Also Read| Can Delta and Omicron combine to make a super strain? It's possible, say experts"As Omicron variant is spreading very fast across Europe and most parts of the world so need to avoid nonessential travel, avoid mass gatherings and it is time to observe low-intensity festivities and ushering in new year celebrations has to be at low intensity," ICMR's director-general Dr Balram Bhargava said on Friday during a press conference of the health ministry.Health ministry joint secretary Lav Agarwal, who was present during Friday's briefing, said that the spread of Omicron will outpace Delta variant where community transmission occurs.He added that vaccines alone will not get any country rid of the Omicron crisis and that masks, physical distancing, ventilation, and hand hygiene should be followed along with vaccination."In most countries, those being hospitalized and dying are those who have not been vaccinated. So, the priority must be to vaccinate the unvaccinated, even in countries with the most access to vaccines," Agarwal added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/indias-daily-covid-tally-falls-for-2nd-consecutive-day-new-deaths-at-289-101639801239926.html
18-12-2021||India||Tax raid at Akhilesh aide Rajeev Rai's place ahead of polls; 'Have no black money,' says SP leader||The income tax department came knocking on the door of Samajwadi Party leader Rajeev Rai, who is also a close aide of Akhilesh Yadav, as a team conducted searches at his premises on Saturday.  According to department sources, several raids were being conducted at various places in Uttar Pradesh. Apart from Rajiv Rai in Mau, the premises of RCL Group promoter Manoj Yadav in Mainpuri were also raided.Reacting to the raid, Rajeev Rai said to ANI that the government will make a case out of anything. "I have no criminal background or black money. I help people and the government did not like it. This is a result of that. If you do anything, then they will make a video, register an FIR and you will fight a case unnecessarily," the SP leader said.BJP’s “double-engine” colliding: AkhileshAnother aide of Akhilesh, Manoj Yadav, has also come on tax radar, reports said. The simultaneous searches began at around 7am.The raids come at a time when the state is all set for the election and Samajwadi chief Akhilesh Yadav has been taking on the BJP over several of its projects.Who is Rajeev Rai?Rajeev Rai is the national spokesperson of the Samajwadi Party. His personal website describes him as the most important person in Team Akhilesh when the party won the election in 2012. He was the Lok Sabha candidate for Ghosi in 2014. Rajeev Rai is also the founder and chairman of AVK Group of Institutions, a chain of institutions in Bengaluru.Rajeev Rai has also been conferred a doctorate degree by the University of Ballsbridge in the field of education, his website said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/tax-raid-at-akhilesh-aide-s-place-ahead-of-polls-have-no-black-money-sp-leader-101639803822991.html
18-12-2021||India||Sukesh Chandrashekhar paid huge amount of money to get introduced to Jacqueline Fernandez: ED||Conman Sukesh Chandrashekhar who is accused of a ₹200 crore money laundering case is believed to have paid a huge amount of money to Pinky Irani, an aide of Sukesh, only to get introduced to Bollywood actor Jacqueline Fernandez. Pinky Irani has recently been arrested by the Enforcement Directorate and on Friday, ED officials confronted Pinky Irani and Sukesh Chandrashekhar in Tihar jail, news agency ANI reported. They were asked the same set of questions separately and together and their statements were recorded, the agency reported.ED officials said Irani introduced Sukesh Chandrashekhar to Jacqueline Fernandez and got a huge amount of money for the work. Shelling out crores to get his work done is not new in the case as ED officials earlier found that Sukesh was paying prison staff of Rohini jail crores of rupees in a month to allow him to run his extortion racket. Inside Rohini jail, he was given an entire barrack. While he was free to use his two mobile phones, all the CCTV cameras were covered.Conman who used to end calls saying 'Jai Hind'. 10 things to know about Sukesh ChandrashekharED has found that when Chandrashekhar was in jail when the wife of Ex-Ranbaxy promoter was duped to the tune of ₹200 crore. Aditi Sigh used to visit her husband Shivinder Mohan Singh, arrested in 2019 in a fund misappropriation case. Sukesh met Aditi in jail. Then he called her from a virtual number using a spoofing app and posed as a central government official. He promised bail of her husband in exchange for that money. ED officials are now looking into the trails of the money and whether it has already been invested abroad.The connection of Jacqueline and Sukesh Chandrashekhar has already come on the radar of the investigators as the actor received several expensive gifts from the conman. Jacqueline told ED officers that Sukesh Chandrashekhar posed as the owner of Sun TV, connected to the Jayalalithaa family, and asked her to do movies for the southern film industries. Sukesh, as Jacqueline revealed, got in touch with her through her makeup artist who was called from the spoofing app impersonating a home ministry official. When Sukesh Chandrashekhar was out on bail for a brief period early this year, he apparently met Jacqueline and some photos of the two went viral. Nora Fatehi is another Bollywood personality who have got linked with Sukesh.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/sukesh-chandrashekhar-paid-huge-amount-of-money-to-get-introduced-to-jaqueline-fernandez-ed-101639803466485.html
18-12-2021||India||Global Spam Report: KYC most common scam in India, Brazil most spammed country||India moved up in rankings from ninth to the fourth spot this year in the tally of top 20 countries affected by spam calls, according to a new report. This happened because of a significant increase in sales and telemarketing calls, as per the Global Spam Report released by Truecaller, a global platform for verifying contacts and blocking unwanted communication.The report presented an interesting insight, that the popular KYC (know your customer) scam remains one of the most common one in the country. As part of the scam, fraudsters pretend to be representatives of banks, wallets, or digital payment services, asking for user KYC documents as mandated by the Reserve Bank of India (RBI).The average number of spam calls per user per month stood at 16.8, while total spam volumes received by Truecaller users alone are in excess of 3.8 billion calls in the month of October.At a global level, Truecaller identified 184.5 billion calls and 586 billion messages. Of those, 37.8 billion spam calls were identified and blocked, while 182 billion messages were identified and blocked.Brazil has retained its title of the most spammed country in the world (four years in a row) with 32.9 spam calls per user per month.Another interesting insight from the report is that over 202 million spam calls were made by just one spammer in India this year between January to October - which is over 6.64 lakh calls every day and 27,000 calls every hour of every day.“Truecaller actively maintains a list of top spammers in each region in order to automatically block them, but this one spammer is so far ahead of the rest that they will find it very hard to catch up,” the report said.In terms of incoming spam messages per user per month, Cameroon topped the list, followed by Somalia, Tanzania, Congo, Burkina Faso, Ivory Coast, and Benin.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/global-spam-report-kyc-most-common-scam-in-india-brazil-most-spammed-country-101639803164581.html
18-12-2021||India||4 accidents of Mi-17V5 helicopters in 5 years including Gen Rawat's: Defence ministry||Minister of state of the defence minister informed Parliament on Friday that Russia-made Mi-17V5 helicopters of the Indian Air Force met with four accidents in the last five years, killing 21 people, including the recent crash in Tamil Nadu's Coonoor in General Bipin Rawat, his wife and 13 defence personnel died.As far as accidents of all military helicopters are concerned, 31 people were killed since March 2017 in 15 military helicopter accidents. The list of crashes provided by him began with the accident involving a Cheetah helicopter of the Indian Air Force on March 15, 2017, in which no one was killed or injured, news agency PTI reported. Seven helicopters each from the Indian Army and the Indian Air Force were involved in accidents during the period while the number from the Navy was one, according to the data that the minister presented in the Lok Sabha.After CDS Gen Bipin Rawat's death, Army chief Gen MM Naravane takes over as chairman of Chiefs of Staff CommitteeTo a question on the crash of an ALH Rudra near Pathankot on August 3, the minister informed the House that there is no restriction on the helicopter flying over water. However, operations over a large expanse of water are restricted.The latest crash with not a single person surviving is being probed by a tri-service inquiry team, which will complete its investigation within two weeks, reports said. Among 14 passengers on board, 13, including General Bipin Rawat's wife Madhulika Rawat, died on the same day. IAF Group Captain Varun Singh battled for a week before he succumbed to his injuries on December 15. According to defence ministry data, there was no SOS from the copter. It took off at 11.48am from the Sulur airbase and was scheduled to reach the Welling airbase at 12.15pm. At around 12.07pm, Sulur airbase lost contact with the copter.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/4-accidents-of-mi-17v5-helicopters-in-5-years-including-gen-rawat-s-defence-ministry-101639799784122.html
18-12-2021||India||News updates from HT: India to host Central Asia Dialogue from today till Dec 20 and all the latest news||Here are today’s top news, analysis, and opinion. Know all about the latest news and other news updates from Hindustan Times.India to host Central Asia Dialogue from today, focus to be on AfghanistanIndia will host the third edition of the India-Central Asia Dialogue in New Delhi from Saturday to discuss further strengthening of relations between member states with a focus on trade, connectivity and development cooperation. Read moreAmit Shah begins 2-day Maharashtra visit today, multiple events lined upUnion home minister Amit Shah will on Saturday begin his two-day visit to Maharashtra, where he is set to inaugurate a new building of the Central Forensic Science Laboratory (CFSL) campus, and also attend several public events – such as the co-operative council conference. Read more‘If India sees UK-like Covid spike, there will be 14 lakh cases daily’: VK PaulAmid the spike in the number of coronavirus disease (Covid-19) cases across the world, in the wake of the emergence of the new variant Omicron, Niti Aayog member Dr VK Paul has expressed concern. Read moreAhead of key polls, Malaysian opposition struggles to garner supportVoters in Malaysia’s biggest state are set to reject the opposition alliance in elections on Saturday, increasing pressure on Anwar Ibrahim to step aside as de facto leader and forcing a rethink in strategy ahead of a national vote that may be called as soon as next year. Read moreWill Ravichandran Ashwin return to CSK? Spinner opens up on possible return to Chennai Super Kings for IPL 2022The mega-action for the 2022 edition of the Indian Premier League (IPL) has thrown numerous possibilities - new captains, new franchises, new combinations and return to old franchises. Read moreNora Fatehi is a modern Greek goddess in stunning thigh-slit gown for Kolkata event: Pics and videosDancer turned actor Nora Fatehi never fails to turn any occasion into her personal fashion event by donning head-turning looks. The star has a knack for experimenting with different styles and serving bold sartorial moments. Read morePriyanka Chopra says Matrix Resurrections co-star Jada Pinkett Smith held her hand as she cried: ‘It was terrifying’Priyanka Chopra recalled crying on the flight to Berlin on the way to shoot for The Matrix Resurrections. She said that she was terrified of getting back to work amid the Covid-19 pandemic. Read more||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/news-updates-from-ht-india-to-host-central-asia-dialogue-from-today-till-dec-20-101639797282639.html
18-12-2021||India||Sameer Wankhede won't seek extension, NCB stint to end on December 31||Narcotics Control Bureau Mumbai zonal chief Sameer Wankhede who found himself in a spot following the arrest of Shah Rukh Khan's son Aryan Khan in the drugs-on-cruise case will not seek an extension of his term which will end on December 31, 2021. Wankhede was on a deputation to the NCB since September 2020 and in his stint, Wankhede took steps to bust the alleged Bollywood-drugs syndicate. Starting with actor Rhea Chakraborty, the NCB under Sameer Wankhede interrogated and arrested several Bollywood personalities regarding their involvement in drugs.The Aryn Khan case kicked up a storm as Maharashtra minister Nawab Malik brought extorting charges against Sameer Wankhede, apart from several other irregularities in the functioning of the central agency.Ample proof available of the dual identities of Sameer Wankhede: Nawab Malik to HCNawab Malik also brought a serious allegation of forgery against Sameer Wankhede claiming that he was a Muslim but took the advantage of OBC quota using a forged certificate. While the allegations against Wankhede are being probed, the issue between Wankhede and Nawab Malik has reached the court. Meanwhile, several high-profile cases, including that of Aryan Khan and that of Nawab Malik's son-in-law, were transferred from the NCB Mumbai to a special investigation team formed by the head office.Between August and December 2020, Wankhede arrested 96 and registered 28 cases. In 2021, Wankhede made 234 arrests, registered 117 cases, seized over 1,791 kg drugs worth around ₹1,000 crore and froze properties over ₹11 crore, the NCB has said.Before his NCB posting, Sameer Wankhede, a 2008-batch Indian Revenue Service officer, was posted with the Directorate of Revenue Intelligence. In his previous roles too, he was known as a taskmaster. In 2011, when Wankhede was with the customs, he had stopped Shah Rukh Khan at the airport and fined him ₹1.5 lakh for carrying excess luggage.(With agency inputs)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/sameer-wankhede-won-t-seek-extension-ncb-stint-to-end-on-december-31-101639797546364.html
18-12-2021||India||As Omicron spreads across India, govt lists steps to keep yourself safe||Amid a rising number of Omicron cases in India, the central government on Friday issued a slew of directions advising citizens on how to protect themselves and cut the spread of the highly infectious new variant of the SARS-Cov-2 coronavirus that is said to also be capable of undergoing frequent mutations. The Press Information Bureau (PIB), the nodal agency for media communications on behalf of the Government of India, shared the list of Omicron-related general advice at the behest of Balram Bhargava, the director-general of the Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR).Also Read | ‘If India sees UK-like Covid spike, there will be 14 lakh cases daily’: VK PaulOmicron: Directions issued by Centre to cut the spread of the infectious new variant –“We still have about 24 districts such where the weekly test positivity rate is over five per cent,” said the secretary of the department of health research under the Union ministry of health and family welfare. "These districts need to ensure local restrictive measures till the weekly test positivity rate comes down to below five per cent for at least two weeks.”It is time to avoid non-essential travel, mass gatherings and observe low-intensity festivities.Districts with more than 5% of test positivity rate need to ensure restrictive measures until it comes below 5% for at least two weeks - DG, @ICMRDELHI #IndiaFightsCorona pic.twitter.com/AzLwuGuX0IThe health ministry’s joint secretary Lav Agarwal also emphasised the usage of face masks, following social distancing and hand hygiene, echoing the WHO's advisory that vaccines alone won’t be enough in the fight against the coronavirus pandemic.Also Read | Tracking Omicron spread in India: List of states with cases of new variantThe number of Omicron cases in the country has now surpassed 100 in the country and these infections have been reported from 11 states and Union territories so far, the Union ministry of health and family welfare said on Friday.The health ministry also highlighted that the number of Omicron cases was rising globally and as of Friday, the United Kingdom reported 11,708 infections followed by Denmark with 9,009 and Norway with 1,792 cases.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/as-omicron-spreads-across-india-govt-lists-steps-to-keep-yourself-safe-101639793314277.html
18-12-2021||India||Tracking Omicron spread in India: List of states with cases of new variant||The Omicron variant has been spreading fast in India. On Friday, the total number of cases infected with the new strain of coronavirus crossed the 100-mark in the country. Alarmingly, 26 of those cases were recorded yesterday.Friday was the fourth day in a row that the country’s Omicron tally saw a relatively significant increase. On both Tuesday and Wednesday, there were 12 new Omicron infections detected across India, while on Thursday, there were 14 such cases.The Union health ministry has cautioned people to defer all non-essential travel amid the spread of the heavily mutated variant, which is believed to be resistant to existing vaccines.Here’s a look at the state-wide spread of the Omicron variant:Maharashtra: It has the highest number of Omicron cases – 40. Eight of these cases were recorded on Friday. Of the eight new Omicron cases, six were reported from Pune and one each from Mumbai and Kalyan Dombivli.All the patients were men belonging to the 29 to 45 age group.The highest number of Omicron cases in Maharashtra have come from Mumbai (14), followed by 10 in Pimpri Chinchwad, six in Pune rural, two in Pune Municipal Corporation, two each in Kalyan Dombivali and Osmanabad and one each in Latur, Buldhana, Nagpur and Vasai Virar.Delhi: The national capital now has the second highest number of Omicron cases in the country. Delhi’s tally of the new coronavirus variant reached 22 after 12 cases were recorded on Friday.Ten of the 22 patients have been discharged, Delhi Health Minister Satyendar Jain said.Doctors at the Lok Nayak Hospital, where a special facility has been set up for isolating and treating suspected Omicron cases, told news agency PTI that most of the patients are fully vaccinated and asymptomatic.Rajasthan: The fast-spreading Omicron has taken Rajasthan too in its grip. The state has so far recorded 17 cases of the new variant of coronavirus.Sixteen new coronavirus disease (Covid-19) cases and one death due to the disease were reported in Rajasthan on Friday, according to an official statement.The new fatality and the cases raised the death toll to 8,960 and the infection count to 9,55,189 in the state, the futher stated.Telangana: At least eight cases of the new coronavirus variant Omicron have been reported in Telangana so far, according to state health department.Addressing a press conference on Friday, Director of public health Srinivasa Rao, said that nine cases were detected at Rajiv Gandhi International Airport in Hyderabad out of which one went to West Bengal via Hyderabad.Rao further informed that all the Omicron positive patients are foreigners.Karnataka: The state has recorded eight cases of the Omicron variant so far. Karnataka health minister Dr K Sudhakar said on Friday that the state government is cautious and is tracking contacts of all eight Omicron variant cases to ensure that there is no immediate spread of the disease from them.As the cases in Maharashtra have increased, the state is also monitoring the borders of Maharashtra, Andhra Pradesh, Telangana, Kerala, the minister added.Kerala: The southern state on Friday logged two new cases of the Omicron variant, taking the overall tally to seven, said health minister Veena George.The new variant of the virus was detected in an elderly couple who arrived in Ernakulam from the UAE.The state had detected its first Omicron case on December 12 in Ernakulam district when a person who had returned from the UK tested positive. Four more cases of the new variant were confirmed on December 15.Other states where Omicron has spread in India are Gujarat (7 cases), and Andhra Pradesh, Tamil Nadu, West Bengal and Chandigarh (one case each).||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/tracking-omicron-spread-in-india-list-of-states-with-cases-of-new-variant-101639795312332.html
18-12-2021||India||‘If India sees UK-like Covid spike, there will be 14 lakh cases daily’: VK Paul||Amid the spike in the number of coronavirus disease (Covid-19) cases across the world, in the wake of the emergence of the new variant Omicron, Niti Aayog member Dr VK Paul has expressed concern. At a press conference on Friday, Dr Paul highlighted the worrying spread of the infections in Europe and compared it to the population of India.Also Read | Can booster shot stop Omicron spread? Here's what a study says"If we look at the scale of spread in the UK and if there is a similar outbreak in India, then given our population, there will be 14 lakh cases every day," Dr Paul said.He added that Omicron is believed to be behind the spread but this is still an “emerging and unexpected scenario” and the government is keeping an eye on all the developments.“It is being said that the Omicron strain causes mild infection,” Dr Paul added.The Niti Aayog member also said that genome sequencing of every sample is not possible."Genome sequencing of every sample is not possible. It is a surveillance and pandemic assessment and tracking tool, not a diagnostic tool as of now. We can assure sufficient systematic sampling is being undertaken," said Dr Paul.Also Read | Vaccinating all to get priority over booster dose, says govtOn Friday, Britain reported 3,201 cases of the new variant, the biggest daily increase since Omicron was detected in the country, taking the total such cases to 14,909, according to official figures.The data from UK Health Security Agency (UKHSA) also said that the country recorded 93,045 coronavirus cases in the latest 24-hour period, breaking the daily record for the third consecutive day and bringing the total number of coronavirus cases in the country to 11,190,354.In India, as many as 113 cases of Omicron variant of coronavirus have been detected so far in 11 states and union territories. Twenty six of these cases were reported on Friday.Maharashtra leads the tally with 40 cases, followed by Delhi with 22, Rajasthan with 17, Telangana and Karnataka with eight each, Gujarat and Kerala with seven each, and Andhra Pradesh, Tamil Nadu, West Bengal and Chandigarh with one each.Joint Secretary of Health Ministry Lav Agarwal, who was addressed the press conference, said that Omicron variant has been found in 91 countries in the world.The Omicron variant was first reported to the World Health Organization (WHO) from South Africa on November 25. As per the WHO, the first known confirmed B.1.1.529 infection was from a specimen collected on November 9 this year.On November 26, the WHO named the new variant as 'Omicron'. The global health body also classified the heavily mutated strain as a 'variant of concern'.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/if-india-sees-uk-like-covid-spike-there-will-be-14-lakh-cases-daily-vk-paul-101639791880161.html
18-12-2021||India||India to host Central Asia Dialogue from today, focus to be on Afghanistan||India will host the third edition of the India-Central Asia Dialogue in New Delhi from Saturday to discuss further strengthening of relations between member states with a focus on trade, connectivity and development cooperation. The three-day event will go on till Monday (December 20).External affairs minister (EAM) S Jaishankar will host the dialogue that will be attended by foreign ministers of five countries - Turkmenistan, Kazakhstan, Tajikistan, Kyrgyzstan and Uzbekistan - according to the foreign ministry.Jaishankar already visited Kazakhstan, Kyrgyz Republic, Tajikistan and Uzbekistan this year and met Turkmenistan's foreign minister in October."The holding of annual meetings of the India-Central Asia Dialogue is symbolic of the interest on the part of all member countries for greater engagement between them in a spirit of friendship, trust and mutual understanding," according to MEA spokesperson Arindam Bagchi."The foreign ministers of the Central Asian countries are expected to pay a joint courtesy call on Prime Minister Narendra Modi," he said, adding that they will exchange views on regional and international issues of global interest.The Modi government has reached out to these five countries for the participation of their top leaders as chief guests for the upcoming Republic Day celebrations next year.The current situation in Afghanistan will be a major topic of discussion at the three-day India-Central Asia Dialogue.The recent developments in Afghanistan after the Taliban's takeover have reinforced the importance of Central Asian countries with Tajikistan, Turkmenistan and Uzbekistan- that share borders with Afghanistan.Previously, the national security advisors (NSAs) of Turkmenistan, Kazakhstan, Tajikistan, Kyrgyzstan and Uzbekistan took part in India-hosted regional dialogue on Afghanistan in November. The event also saw participation from the NSAs of Iran and Russia.(With agency inputs)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/india-to-host-central-asia-dialogue-from-today-focus-to-be-on-afghanistan-101639789735412.html
18-12-2021||India||Balasaheb Thackeray asked me why I had rejected Reliance's tender: Nitin Gadkari||At a meeting with investors on Friday, Union minister Nitin Gadkari on Friday said there is no need to worry about the economic viability of road projects. Recalling his stint as the PWD minister of the Shiv Sena-BJP government in Maharashtra in the early 1990s, he said he rejected a tender submitted by Reliance, which not only upset Dhirubhai Ambani but also raised questions inside Maharashtra power corridors. "Even my ministerial colleagues and the chief minister (Manohar Joshi) were also angry with me. Balasaheb Thackeray asked me why I rejected that bid," Gadkari said.Reliance quoted ₹3,600 crore for the expressway, MSRDC completed the project in less than half the amount, ₹1,600 crore, Gadkari said."I told them that I will raise money from the public and construct the expressway, the Worli-Bandra Sealink and 52 other flyovers in the city and all of them laughed at me," Gadkari said.However, chief minister Manohar Joshi gave Gadkari a go-ahead and then the Maharashtra State Roads Development Corporation was created. The first MSRDC managing director, RC Sinha, used to go to all platforms of investors seeking funds. "At that time we used to go to the investors and now investors are coming to us. I was 36 years at that time. We used to show projects on our laptops and ask people to invest," the minister said. And when MSRDC went to capital markets, it overachieved its target of ₹500 crore and garnered ₹1,160 crore. "The second time when it wanted to raise ₹650 crore, MSRDC ended up with ₹1,100 crore," the minister said."Even Ratan Tata told me that I am smarter than them as he never expected so much money could be raised from the market for infra projects," Gadkari said.Talking about how he got the inspiration for the Build Operate Transfer policy from an electric good shop, he said he went to buy a TV and wanted to buy it on installments. "When the shopkeeper came to know that I was a minister, he told me that he will deliver me a new TV model. But I didn't get the TV set as promised because he would have realised that being a minister I may not pay up," the minister said. Then I thought if TV can be bought in installments, then why not tunnels and bridges," Gadkari said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/balasaheb-thackeray-asked-me-why-i-had-rejected-reliance-s-tender-nitin-gadkari-101639791282184.html
18-12-2021||NA||Breaking highlights: Confirmed Omicron cases in UK around 25,000 as of Dec 17, up by more than 10,000 from Dec 16||Welcome to hindustantimes.com live updates platform where you can find breaking news from India and across the world. Find fast updates about the latest news as it breaks.Follow all the updates here:Temperature in AP to fall by 2 to 4 degrees for next 5 days: IMD officialTemperature in Andhra Pradesh is likely to fall by two to four degree celsius below the normal temperature for the next five days, reports ANI quoting the India Meteorological Department. “Low-level NE winds are prevailing over Andhra Pradesh. Mainly dry weather will prevail and the temperatures are likely to fall by two to four degrees centigrade, below the normal temperature values, for the next 5 days,” said VSM Raju, of the IMD, Amravati.EAM S Jaishankar hosts foreign ministers of central Asian nations“Hosted the Central Asian Foreign Ministers to a welcome dinner before our Dialogue tomorrow. The cultural show was just one more reminder of our closeness,” S Jaishankar tweeted.Nagpur forest team captures 2 monkeys that killed many puppies, to be released in nearby forestThe Nagpur forest department captured two monkeys involved in the killing of many puppies earlier. They have been captured in Beed earlier today. Both the monkeys are being shifted to Nagpur to be released in a nearby forest, reports ANI citing Sachin Kand, Beed Forest Officer. UK's confirmed Omicron tally jumps by 10,000 cases in 24 hours; now at 24,968Cases in the United Kingdom of the fast-spreading Omicron variant of the coronavirus jumped sharply to almost 25,000 while the total number of reported deaths among people with it so far rose to seven, according to British health authorities. Click here to read moreOmicron cases continue to rise in Maharashtra, 8 new cases take tally to 48With eight more people infected with the Omicron Covid-19 variant in Maharashtra, the state's tally reached 48. Of the new cases, four are from Mumbai, three from Satara and one from Pune.Among those tested positive in Mumbai, one is a city resident, while the other three are residents of Chhattisgarh, Kerala and Jalgaon in Maharashtra respectively. ‘Omicron not as severe as Delta’, says AIIMS doctor, rules out ‘anything like second wave’Puneet Misra, professor of community medicine at the All India Institute of Medical Sciences in Delhi, said that the Omicron variant's transmissibility is quite high as compared to Delta but also said it was not as severe as Delta, reports ANI.“I don't see anything like 2nd wave but there might be a huge number of cases due to high transmissibility,” he said. Sacrilege attempt inside Golden Temple's sanctum sanctorum, accused killedA person has been killed after a sacrilege attempt inside the sanctum sanctorum of the Golden Temple in Amritsar on Saturday evening during the Rehras Sahib recitation. The person attempted to approach the Guru Granth Sahib and pick the ‘Kirpan’ placed in front of the holy Sikh scripture. The incident is the second of its kind in four days.Karnataka reports 6 fresh cases of Omicron, returnee from UK among new patientsTwo cluster outbreaks of COVID have been reported from two educational institutions in Dakshina Kannada today: Cluster 1: 14 cases (of which 4 are Omicron)Cluster 2: 19 cases (1 is Omicron)A traveller from UK has also tested positive for #Omicron@BSBommai#OmicronindiaKarnataka has reported two new clusters of Covid-19 in educational institutions in Dakshina Kannada. As many as 14 cases have been detected in the first cluster of which four tested positive for the Omicron variant while 19 cases in the second cluster including one Omicron cases.Apart from these, a traveller from UK also tested positive for the Omicron variant. Tajikistan foreign minister meets Lok Sabha speaker Om Birla, talks on Covid-19, other key areasThe two leaders also exchanged views on crucial areas of mutual cooperation such as COVID-19 mitigation, education, tourism, capicity building of Members of Parliament and officials. pic.twitter.com/VWjZPPKwf6Tajikistan foreign minister Sirojiddin Muhriddin met with Lok Sabha speaker Om Birla. “During the call on, the two leaders recalled strong civilizational ties between the two countries,” the Lok Sabha secretariat said. “The two leaders also exchanged views on crucial areas of mutual cooperation such as COVID-19 mitigation, education, tourism, capicity building of Members of Parliament and officials,” it further said. Paper consumption in railways ministry reduced to 10,272 reams in 2021: DARPGThe paper consumption in the Union ministry of railways reduced to 10,272 reams in 2021 as against 22,685 reams in 2018, reports ANI citing the Department of Administrative Reforms and Public Grievance (DARPG) . “The expenditure in cartridges is expected to reduce by ₹50 lakhs by March 2022 as compared to ₹1.3 crores in 2019-20,” the DARPG also said. Mumbai civic body warns of strict action against Covid norms offendersThe Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation urged people to avoid crowding and follow the Covid guidelines in the city. It also warned of strict action against offenders, reports ANI."People allowed up to 50% capacity in closed spaces; in open spaces, people allowed up to 25% capacity of space. Prior permission required for a gathering of more than 1000 people," the BMC said.Watch | Rahul Gandhi's tongue-in-cheek remark against PM Modi's dip in Ganga#WATCH | For the first time I saw just one person taking bath in Ganga, removed Yogi Ji, sidelined Rajnath Singh....Remember when Narendra ji was young he fought with a crocodile, I thought he didn't know swimming...struggling with his hands...:Congress' Rahul Gandhi in Amethi pic.twitter.com/Cmw4te4RX5Rahul Gandhi mocked Narendra Modi's recent visit to Varanasi in Uttar Pradesh, when he took a dip in the Ganges river, reports ANI. “For the first time I saw just one person taking bath in Ganga, removed Yogi Ji, sidelined Rajnath Singh....Remember when Narendra ji was young he fought with a crocodile, I thought he didn't know swimming...struggling with his hands,” Gandhi said. Odisha sees 169 new Covid-19 cases, 1 death; active caseload at 1,922Odisha logged 169 new Covid-19 cases as the state's tally rose to 1,052,641. The death toll reached 8,442 with one more fatality. Active caseload stood at 1,922, reports PTI citing a state health bulletin.10 killed, scores injured in an explosion in Karachi building, reports ANI citing Pakistani mediaTen people were killed and several others were injured in an explosion at a building in Karachi's Shershah Paracha Chowk area, this afternoon, reports ANI citing Pakistan Media.‘PM Modi brought farm laws, said no farmers died during protests’: Rahul Gandhi in AmethiRahul Gandhi said that PM Modi implemented the three farm laws and told farmers would benefit from them but apologised after a year when farmers stood together against the laws, reports ANI. “We questioned about the compensation for farmers who died in the protest, he (Modi) said no farmers died in the protest,” he said.PM busy travelling abroad, farmers earning only ₹27 per day: Priyanka GandhiThis is the kind of govt where the PM is too busy travelling abroad, in one day helps his industrialist friends earn crores of rupees. Today under the same govt our farmers are earning only ₹27 per day. - Smt. @priyankagandhi #BJPBhagaoMehangaiHatao pic.twitter.com/mJY0OxHOLb“This is the kind of govt where the PM is too busy travelling abroad, in one day helps his industrialist friends earn crores of rupees. Today under the same govt our farmers are earning only ₹27 per day,” alleged Congress general secretary Priyanka Gandhi.PM targeted small businesses with demonetisation, GST: Rahul Gandhi Congress leader Rahul Gandhi said that Prime Minister Narendra Modi targeted the medium and small scale businesses with demonetisation and GST. He said this during a rally in Amethi, Uttar Pradesh. “Why is inflation on the rise ?” Gandhi asked. “PM can not reply. I will give you the answer. MSME provided jobs and PM targeted them with demonetisation and GST,” he said. Modi lists 5 boons Ganga Expressway will bring to Uttar PradeshNarendra Modi listed what he called the “five boons” that the Ganga Expressway will bring for Uttar Pradesh:1. Saving time for people 2. Increase in convenience 3. Proper usage of Uttar Pradesh's resources 4. Increase in the power of UP5. All-round prosperity in UPPM Modi lays foundation stone of Ganga Expressway in UP's ShahjahanpurPrime Minister Narendra Modi on Saturday laid the foundation stone of the Ganga expressway in Uttar Pradesh's Shahjahanpur.Typhoon Rai update: Death toll climbs to 19The death toll due to Typhoon Rai in the Philippines has climbed to 19. BSF shoots down drone along Pakistan border in PunjabThe Border Security Force (BSF) on Saturday shot down a drone along the Pakistan border in Punjab, news agency PTI reported. India successfully test-fires Agni Prime missileA lot of new features have been added to the nuclear-capable strategic missile Agni Prime during this test. The missile test met all its mission objectives with a high level of accuracy: Government officialsIndia on Saturday successfully testfired the Agni Prime missile off the coast of Odisha in Balasore. Read more'Nothing is done for common man, the poor': Farmer leader Gurnam Singh Charuni as he launches new political partyFarmer leader Gurnam Singh Charuni said on Saturday that politics in India has become polluted and there is a need to change it. “Policymakers promoting capitalism, policies are being framed to favour capitalists. Nothing is done for common man, the poor. So, we're launching our new party, Sanyukt Sangharsh Party,” Charuni was quoted as sayinChandigarh reschedules winter vacation in govt schools amid Covid-19District Education Office, Chandigarh reschedules winter vacations in govt & govt-aided schools in the UT as a precautionary measure, in wake of #COVID19. As per the revised schedule, schools will have winter vacations from 20th Dec to 7th Jan. Schools will reopen on 10th Jan. pic.twitter.com/K5hvVPwGLLChandigarh on Saturday rescheduled winter vacation in government and government aided schools as a precautionary measure in view of the prevailing coronavirus disease (Covid-19) pandemic. “As per the revised schedule, schools will have winter vacations from 20th Dec to 7th Jan. Schools will reopen on 10th Jan,” an official order raid. Have no criminal background, says SP leader Rajeev Rai after I-T raids his house in UPThis is IT dept. I've no criminal background or black money. I help people & Govt didn't like it. This is a result of that. If you do anything, they'll make a video, register an FIR, you'll fight a case unnecessarily. There is no use let procedure complete: Rajeev Rai, SP leader pic.twitter.com/Bn4hcs1ozmSamajwadi Party (SP) leader Rajeev Rai said on Saturday that he has no criminal background or black money after the income tax department raided hIndia records 7,145 new Covid-19 cases in last 24 hrsIndia continued a downward trend in its daily tally of the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) after 7,145 new cases were recorded in the last 24 hours. Read moreFarmer leader Gurnam Singh Charuni to launch political party in ChandigarhFarmer leader Gurnam Singh Charuni to launch a new political party today in Chandigarh. (File photo) pic.twitter.com/VyojfWo79TBBMP clarifies on mandatory quarantine for international arrivals amid Omicron threatThe Bruhat Bengaluru Mahanagara Palike (BBMP) has clarified that no decision has been taken regarding the compulsory quarantine for international arrivals from ‘at-risk’ countries, even if they test negative for the coronavirus disease (Covid-19). Read morePhilippines typhoon death toll climbs to 18The total number of deaths due to typhoon Rai have climbed to 18 and over 300,000 people have fled their homes and beachfront resorts. According to news agency AFP, more than 18,000 personnel of the police, military, coast guard and fire department will join the search and rescue efforts in the worst-affected regions in the Philippines.France urges citizens to take vaccine ahead of holiday festivitiesThe French government has requested citizens to get vaccinated against the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) ahead of holiday festivities amid a surge in infections. . “The fifth wave is here and it is here in full force,” Prime Minister Jean Castex told a news conference on Friday. Castex added that the Omicron variant is expected to dominate infections from January.  India to host Central Asia Dialogue from today, focus to be on AfghanistanIndia will host the third edition of the India-Central Asia Dialogue in New Delhi from Saturday to discuss further strengthening of relations between member states with a focus on trade, connectivity and development cooperation. Read moreDelhi schools to reopen for Class 6 and above from today; air quality remains in very ‘poor category’Schools in the national capital will reopen for Class 6 and above from Saturday, a day after approval was given by the Commission for Air Quality Management (CAQM) in the national capital region and adjoining areas. Read moreEx-US hostages have left Haiti, are doing well: Mission agencyThe the former hostages from a United States-based missionary group kidnapped in Haiti in October have been flown out of the country after a two-month ordeal, the leader of their Ohio-based missions organisation said on Friday. “Everyone including the 10-month-old baby, the 3-year-old boy and the 6-year-old boy seem to be doing reasonably well,”David Troyer, general director of Christian Aid Ministries, said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/breaking-news-updates-december-18-2021-101639788440859.html
18-12-2021||India||Amit Shah begins 2-day Maharashtra visit today, multiple events lined up||Union home minister Amit Shah will on Saturday begin his two-day visit to Maharashtra, where he is set to inaugurate a new building of the Central Forensic Science Laboratory (CFSL) campus, and also attend several public events – such as the co-operative council conference.The home minister will have a packed schedule on his visit to the state during these two days, and a schedule shared by the ANI news agency provided a glimpse at his itinerary.Also Read | Govt decisions during pandemic to have long-lasting positive impact: Amit Shah at FICCI meetAccording to a top government official, cited by the agency, Amit Shah will on the first day of his visit to Maharashtra, that is Saturday, worship at the famed Shirdi temple at 11:15am. This will be followed by the home minister participating in Padmashree Dr Vitthalrao Vikhe Patil Literary Award distribution.Next, Shah has two back-to-back conferences lined up at Maharashtra's Loni region in the noon – the Cooperation Council Conference and the Sahakar Parishad Conference.In the evening, the Union home minister will reach state capital Mumbai, where he is set to attend the Institute of Company Secretaries of India (ICSI) National Award Distribution Ceremony at around 6pm.On December 19, Amit Shah will be travelling to Pune, beginning his day at 10am with a visit to the Shrimant Dagdusheth Ganpati Temple in the city.Also Read | India to become fastest expanding economy in 2021-22, says Amit ShahLater on, he will inaugurate the aforementioned new building of the CFSL campus in Pune at 11am and then attend ‘Bada Khana’ – a practice in the Indian Army and paramilitary organisations to prepare lunch or dinner on important days – with the National Disaster Response Force (NDRF) personnel at 1pm.He will then travel to the Pune campus of the Vaikunth Mehta National Institute of Cooperative Management (VAMNICOM) – a grant-in-aid institution under the Union ministry of cooperation – to attend the convocation ceremony there at 2pm, according to the schedule shared by the news agency.After spending nearly one hour at the event, the home minister will then attend another where the foundations of the statues of Chhatrapati Shivaji Maharaj and Babasaheb Ambedkar will be laid at the Pune Municipal Corporation around 3.45pm.Finally, the minister will later on Sunday attend a conference of the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) Pune city workers at 4.40pm at the Ganesh Kala Sports Centre there. He will also pay homage to Babasaheb Purandare at his home at around 6.45pm, as per the news agency.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/amit-shah-begins-2-day-maharashtra-visit-today-multiple-events-lined-up-101639785771235.html
18-12-2021||India||Covovax gets WHO’s nod for emergency use||The World Health Organization approved the coronavirus vaccine developed by Novavax on Friday, paving the way for several countries, including India, to soon have access to large volumes of doses produced by Pune-based Serum Institute of India (SII).SII has the license to produce over two billion doses of the vaccine, which experts have seen as key to addressing a wide vaccine inequity in poorer parts of the world. WHO approval – technically an emergency use listing -- also fulfils an important condition that will allow for dose to be approved in India, where it will be sold as Covovax.“Even with new variants emerging, vaccines remain one of the most effective tools to protect people against serious illness and death from Sars-Cov-2,” said Mariângela Simão, WHO assistant-director general for Access to Medicines and Health Products. “This listing aims to increase access particularly in lower-income countries, 41 of which have still not been able to vaccinate 10% of their populations, while 98 countries have not reached 40%.”Covovax is part of the WHO-led Covax facility. SII began stockpiling doses in the summer and a Union health ministry assessment in June said the government expects 200 million doses of the vaccine to be available by December. “The EUL by the World Health Organization is a great encouragement towards making Covid-19 vaccines more accessible. Our partnership with Novavax has been successful in providing global public health leadership and ensuring that all countries have broad access to a viable vaccine,” said Adar Poonawalla, chief executive officer of SII.The vaccine is a protein subunit vaccine that delivers a full spike of the Sars-Cov-2 to train the immunity. It is the only other vaccine apart from the mRNA platform doses to demonstrate an efficacy of over 90% against symptomatic disease (against the original Sars-Cov-2 virus), but its production and development was delayed due to several factors, including raw material shortages.“We believe this vaccine will help overcome barriers to vaccine access in many regions of the world by leveraging the traditional refrigeration used in existing vaccine supply channels, while also offering an option based on a familiar and well-understood technology,” said Stanley C Erck, president and CEO of Novavax.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/covovax-gets-who-s-nod-for-emergency-use-101639773755598.html
18-12-2021||India||Woman held in J-K for insulting CDS Rawat in post, granted bail||The Executive Magistrate of Jammu and Kashmir’s Doda district on Friday granted bail to the former director of a school, Sabbah Haji, after she was arrested for calling Chief of Defence Staff (CDS) late General Bipin Rawat a “war criminal” in a social media post, web portal Bar and Bench reported.“Bail was granted to her on condition that she will remain present at women’s police station Doda from 10am to 2pm for three days, December 14 to 17, and shall appear before the Executive Magistrate Doda on December 17,” the portal quoted an official as saying on condition of anonymity said.India’s first chief of defence staff (CDS) General Bipin Rawat, his wife Madhulika Raje Singh Rawat, and 11 others were killed on December 8 when an Indian Air Force (IAF) chopper crashed near Cooonor in Tamil Nadu in an air tragedy that shocked the three services and came as a huge setback to the country’s biggest military reforms since Independence.The only survivor of the crash, Group Captain Varun Singh, died on Wednesday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/woman-held-in-j-k-for-insulting-cds-rawat-in-post-granted-bail-101639768864923.html
18-12-2021||India||SC rejects journalist’s plea against jail term||The Supreme Court on Friday declined to interfere with a one-month jail term for an editor of a Kannada weekly over defamatory articles against a lawyer, commenting that he was in fact let off leniently.“Let him suffer!” retorted Chief Justice of India NV Ramana when the counsel for DS Vishwanatha Shetty requested the bench to stay the order of the Karnataka high court to prevent the journalist from going behind bars for his articles.Advocate Sanjay M Nuli, appearing for the petitioner, submitted that the high court had not correctly appreciated the facts of the case and that the articles could be corroborated. The plea also said that the imprisonment order would infringe upon the freedom of the press and the right to know, besides having a chilling effect on free speech.But the bench, which included justices Surya Kant and Hima Kohli, remarked: “This kind of language you use and claim you are a journalist? This is typical yellow journalism.”While dismissing the petition, the bench added: “What kind of a language is this? We have to protect lawyers too. And what have you been given... only one month. One month is very less. He deserves more than that.”Shetty was proprietor, publisher, editor and printer of Tunga Varthe, a Kannada weekly newspaper with publication in and around Koppa, Sringeri, and NR Pura Taluk. He was sentenced to one year in jail in 2013 under penal provision of defamation for publishing in 2008 a series of articles against advocate TN Rathnaraj and calling him a goon and an MLA’s spy for having prepared sale deeds pertaining to pieces of land granted to SCs/STs without the government’s permission.In March this year, Karnataka high court reduced Shetty’s jail term from one year to a month but confirmed his conviction under IPC Section 501 (criminal defamation). The high court further noted that Shetty was convicted of a similar offence in the past as well. Shetty, however, went back to the high court to show that the finding about his previous conviction was a mistake since he was in fact acquitted in the other case. But the high court did not entertain his plea for a review of its order.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/sc-rejects-journalist-s-plea-against-jail-term-101639768188889.html
18-12-2021||India||Karnataka assembly: Congress demands minister’s removal over land grab case||The Congress on Friday continued its protests in the ongoing winter session of the Karnataka legislature in Belagavi, demanding removal of a cabinet minister accused in a land grab case.Leader of the opposition and former chief minister Siddaramaiah led the charge against the Basavaraj Bommai-led Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) government, which was further cornered over more charges of corruption by senior leaders and ministers of the party.Minister for urban development Byrathi Basavaraj is alleged to have usurped land, which the Congress said was worth over ₹350 crore.“If @BJP4Karnataka & @BSBommai believes in parliamentary system, honesty & transparent system of governance, they have to get the resignation of Byrathi Basavaraj,” Siddaramaiah said in a post on Twitter.The demand for Byrathi Basavaraj’s removal comes at a time when the BJP government in the state has found itself in the middle of one crisis after another including allegations of corruption involving senior members of the ruling party as well as officials.The chrges include the Bitcoin scandal, in which senior BJP leaders and government officials are alleged to have laundered ill-gotten money through cryptocurrencies.“I urge @BJP4Karnataka govt to allow the discussion in the assembly session about alleged land scam by Byrathi Basavaraj, and also to ask him to resign till the case is decided in the court,” Siddaramaiah said.A Bengaluru court has allowed the filing of criminal cases against Byrathi Basavarj, BJP MLC R Shankar and three others after a case relating to land grab, which the opposition claimed was valued at over ₹350 crore.“The court has clearly stated that the minister and the MLC are accused in the case and asked that criminal cases be filed,” A Narayanaswamy, Congress MLC, said on Wednesday in the upper house of the legislature, HT reported.At least 14 legislators were suspended by the chairperson for protesting over not being allowed to discuss the charges of corruption.The Congress legislators said the chief metropolitan magistrate court in Bengaluru on November 25 ordered for filing of criminal cases against the minister and the MLC in the land grab case.“There is no possibility that this issue can be discussed here since they (Congress) have said that there is an FIR and the matter is in the courts. Matters that are being heard in court cannot be discussed here,” JC Madhuswamy, Karnataka’s minister for law and parliamentary affairs, said on the floor of the assembly, denying the opposition a chance to discuss the issue.The BJP also hit back at the Congress for shielding its ministers when in power, accusing the opposition party of showing double standards in demanding the resignation of a cabinet ministerThe Congress said that the issue has been discussed in the house earlier as well.The alleged land grab happened in 2003. “A court has taken cognizance and an FIR has been registered. But just because of cognizance and registration of an FIR, the person does not become a criminal. There have been times when FIR and chargesheets have been filed and ministers have remained in their positions,” CM Bommai said.The BJP said the Congress does not have the morality to seek the BJP minister’s resignation.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/karnataka-assembly-congress-demands-minister-s-removal-over-land-grab-case-101639767901346.html
18-12-2021||India||Rising Omicron cases: Karnataka panel seeks curbs on new year revelries||Amid rising cases of Omicron variant in the state, the Karnataka government’s Technical Advisory Committee (TAC) on Covid-19 has recommended against New Year Celebrations that would draw large crowds. The TAC, which held a meeting on Wednesday, has submitted a report in this regard with several other recommendations, officials said on Friday.Officials in the know of the developments said that TAC has advised the chief minister Basavaraj Bommai to impose the Code of Criminal Procedure’s Section 144 from December 22 to January 2, along with night curfew between 7 pm and 5 am from December 30 till January 2 in Bengaluru. It also made a case for not allowing revellers to gather on roads and in public places.Bengaluru has a tradition of closing down Brigade Road to allow revellers to gather for celebrations. The report, however, warned against such gatherings. “Gatherings/celebrations on major roads, malls, and other public places, especially at party hubs like Brigade Road, MG Road, Commercial Street, and surrounding areas, should be prohibited. However, regular activities/business can be allowed to continue in pubs, restaurants, clubs, and other similar establishments with strict Covid-19 Appropriate Behaviour,” stated the report.The report further added that employees working at party hubs in the city should be fully vaccinated, and must have a negative RT-PCR test report no older than 72 hours. As for the customers, only those who are fully vaccinated should be allowed to enter any establishment.TAC has also recommended that more than 200 people should not be allowed to gather from December 22 to January 2, including in places of worship.Speaking to reporters on Friday, Bruhat Bengaluru Mahanagara Palike (BBMP) Chief Commissioner Gaurav Gupta indicated that there was a possibility of imposing restrictions around New Year. “There is a necessity to think in that direction. We can send a recommendation to the government in that regard. We have not sent it yet, but we are thinking about sending recommendations.”However, he said that the final decision will be taken by the state government. “The TAC will provide the recommendations to the Karnataka government at the CM level, and the decision will be taken there,” Gaurav Gupta said.Restrictions come in the wake of Karnataka reporting five new cases of the Omicron variant, taking the toll to eight so far, state health minister K Sudhakar said.Of the five cases, three were foreign returnees – a 19-year-old from the UK, a 52-year-old from Nigeria, and a 33-year-old from South Africa. The other two cases passengers – a 36-year-old and a 70- year-old – were returning from New Delhi, the minister added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/rising-omicron-cases-karnataka-panel-seeks-curbs-on-new-year-revelries-101639767841352.html
18-12-2021||India||TRS to hold agitation against Centre’s anti-farmer policies||The Telangana Rashtra Samithi on Friday decided to hold a statewide agitation on December 20 to protest the anti-farmer policies of the Bharatiya Janata Party-led National Democratic Alliance government at the Centre.TRS president and Telangana chief minister K Chandrasekhar Rao, who addressed a meeting of the party’s state executive committee meeting at Telangana Bhavan, called upon the party cadre to go all out against the BJP as well as the Narendra Modi government at the Centre for discriminating against Telangana in paddy procurement.He asked the party leaders and cadre at all levels to stage demonstrations, hold dharnas, take out rallies and burn effigies of the NDA government and the BJP leaders in the state.Briefing the media persons after the meeting, state agriculture minister S Niranjan Reddy said the chief minister had asked the party cadre to go to the people and explain the adverse impact of the Centre’s refusal to purchase paddy from Telangana.“At the same time, KCR has decided that we should continue to mount pressure on the Centre on the paddy purchase. A delegation of six cabinet ministers and 17 MPs would be leaving for New Delhi on Saturday to take up the paddy procurement issue with the Centre,” he said.He said the MPs had already sought appointment of Prime Minister Narendra Modi and Union Food and Public Distribution Minister Piyush Goyal to explain the prevailing situation in Telangana and request the Centre to clarify its stand on remaining paddy stocks for this season.He said the Food Corporation of India (FCI) had signed a Memorandum of Understanding (MoU) to purchase 40 lakh tonnes of rice i.e. approximately 60 lakh tonnes of paddy. “But paddy production in the state would be nearly 13 million tonnes as it is being cultivated in around 62 lakh acres during the Kharif season,” the minister said.He said the state government had already procured more than 50 lakh tonnes and complete procurement of 60 lakh tonnes paddy in a couple of days. Since the Centre had assured to purchase the maximum quantity of raw rice from the state, the TRS would seek a clarity from the Centre in this regard, Reddy said.The TRS executive committee meeting also discussed various other issues such as implementation of Dalit Bandhu and Rythu Bandhu schemes. KCR asked the party cadres to motivate the farmers to take up alternative crops.
18-12-2021||India||K-rail project: Tharoor takes differing view, Kerala Congress seeks action||Senior Congress leader and Thiruvananthapuram parliamentarian Shashi Tharoor, known for his independent position on key issues, ruffled Congress state unit leaders again after he took a different position on the state government’s ambitious high speed railway project “K Rail” and lauded Kerala chief minister Pinarayi Vijayan. Besides abstaining from signing a party MPs’ letter opposing the K Rail project, Tharoor lauded the developmental initiatives of the CM in a private function on Thursday angering leaders further. Former Congress state president Mullapally Ramachandran on Friday asked the high command to take action against the leader. “He is a party MP and he has to go by the collective decision. Discipline is applicable to all. Hope the party high command will rein in the leader who often flout the party position and discipline,” said Ramachandran.Even a small child will understand the impact of the high-speed rail corridor in an ecologically- sensitive state like Kerala, Ramachandran said. On Monday, 17 MPs from the state had written to Railway Minister Ashwini Vaishnav urging him not to give clearance to the high-speed project but Tharoor abstained from it saying he needed more time to study the project. But he made it clear that not signing the letter does not mean that he supported the project. While attending the inaugural ceremony of Lulu Mall in the state capital on Thursday, Tharoor lauded the developmental initiatives of the CM hurting party leaders again. But the leader made it clear that he never shied away from congratulating a person who did a good job and there was no need to read between lines. Another senior Congress leader Ramesh Chennithala, who took on the MP in the past, supported him. “What he said is that he needs more time to study about the project. He never supported it. Being a global citizen, we have to give him more time,” he said. But state president K Sudhakaran said he will talk to the leader in detail about his differing view. Later, Tharoor tweeted in details about his meeting with the CM. “Enjoyed discussing Kerala’s development with CM Pinarayi Vijayan. On some issues it is necessary to put political differences aside and get on with growth. The young people of our state deserve opportunities that the current economic situation does not offer them,” he tweeted. This is not the first time Tharoor is locking horns with Congress state leaders. Last year, when the central government decided to lease out Thiruvananthapuram airport to Adani group he supported saying it was much-needed for the development of his constituency. He is among the 23 signatories in the letter that called for the full-time and effective president of the party and early organisational elections. The party has 15 MPs from the state including Rahul Gandhi who represents Wayanad in Lok Sabha.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/krail-project-tharoor-takes-differing-view-kerala-congress-seeks-action-101639767781295.html
18-12-2021||India||Two more cases, Omicron tally in Kerala rises to 7||Kerala reported two more cases of the Omicron variant of coronavirus on Friday, taking the tally of such cases to seven, the state health ministry said.The two Omicron-infected are a couple who returned from the United Arab Emirates a week back, the ministry said, adding that all those who came in direct contact with them were quarantined.With more Omicron cases being detected, all districts have been asked to ready isolation wards and stock enough oxygen supply. Samples from localities where Covid-19 clusters were found will be sent for genetic analysis, health department officials said.The total number of Omicron-infected rose to 101 In the country; Maharashtra reported maximum cases of 32, followed by Delhi at 22.Struggling with heavy Covid-19 caseload, Kerala was on high alert after the new variant was detected in the country last month. For more than six months the state has been reporting maximum Covid-19 virus cases in the country and is on the second spot in death rate after Maharashtra.Meanwhile, Kerala reported 3471 new Covid-19 cases on Friday after 54,715 samples were tested. It also recorded 22 deaths taking total fatalities to 44,189.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/two-more-cases-omicron-tally-in-kerala-rises-to-7-101639767724263.html
18-12-2021||India||NGT stalls ₹3.3k-cr Rayalaseema lift scheme on Krishna||The National Green Tribunal on Friday directed the Andhra Pradesh government to stop all the ongoing works of the Rayalaseema Lift Irrigation Scheme (RLIS) being built on the backwaters of the Krishna river, saying the project does not have environmental clearance from the Centre.A bench of the tribunal comprising Justice Ramakrishna and Dr K Satyagopal, which reserved its judgement in October, delivered it on Friday.The scheme, conceived by the Y S Jagan Mohan Reddy government in August 2020, aims to provide assured water to 1.9 million acres in four districts of Rayalaseema – Kadapa, Kurnool, Anantapur and Chittoor.The lift scheme, costing ₹3,278 crore, will draw three tmc (thousand million cubic feet) of water per day from Srisailam reservoir near Sangameshwaram and pump it into the Srisailam right main canal (SRMC) that will feed irrigation canals in the four districts.In its judgement, the tribunal said it was constituting a three-member committee of experts from the ministry of environment and forests, Geological Survey of India (GSI) and the Central Water Commission (CWC).“This committee will go into the issue of whether the ongoing works taken up by the Andhra Pradesh government for the purpose of preparing a detailed project report were strictly in compliance with the guidelines issued by the CWC and GSI and whether any excess work was carried out causing damage to the environment,” the tribunal said.The NGT bench said the committee could take appropriate steps against the state government if there are any violations of environmental laws in undertaking the works.The tribunal ordered that till the committee submits its report and the MOEF disposes of the application for environmental clearance, the state government should not proceed with any work on ground in the name of preparation of detailed project report for the Rayalaseema Lift Irrigation Scheme.In August this year, following a direction from the NGT, a team of officials from the Krishna River Management Board conducted a field study at the project site and reported to the tribunal that there were violations of environmental norms in the project works.The Andhra Pradesh government submitted an affidavit to the tribunal, saying that the works taken up at the site were not in violation of the norms, but to only prepare a detailed project report. It said no works were taken up for RLIS at the project site after they were stopped in the first week of July, following a stay order from the NGT.
18-12-2021||India||Kerala Muslim bodies oppose Centre’s move to raise marriage age of women||Many Muslim organisations in Kerala have criticised the union government’s move to raise the minimum legal age of marriage for women from 18 to 21 years, but the Kerala Catholic Bishops Council (KCBC) welcomed the decision. The union cabinet on Wednesday cleared a proposal to bring uniformity in the marriageable age of men and women and the government plans to bring a bill in this regard in the ongoing winter session of parliament. The proposed bill may contain amendments to faith-based personal laws dealing with marriage and inheritance.Muslim League leader E T Mohammad Basheer on Friday introduced an adjournment motion in the Lok Sabha, saying the decision was against the Muslim personal law and that it was another step towards introducing a uniform civil code in the country. “We will oppose this. The government is trying to implement the Sangh Parivar’s favourite agenda of uniform civil code. The Muslim personal law board clearly defines marriage, divorce and right to property. These issues relate to our faith,” Basheer said, adding he will talk to other political parties to form a consensus on the issue. The Congress is yet to make its stance clear on the issue. The women’s wing of the League opposed the decision, saying the delaying the age of marriage will give way to “live-in relationships and illegitimate relations”. The Samastha Kerala Jamait-ul-Ulema, a body of Sunni scholars, and many other religious bodies also opposed the move. “The necessity for increasing the age from 18 to 21 is not known. No medical study indicates any psychological or physiological problems if girls are married off at 18. The stipulation that girls should wait till 21 to marry is an affront to individual freedom and religious belief,” said T K Ashraf, leader of the Wisdom Islamic Organisation, a Salafi group. Muslim bodies got support from the CPI(M)’s women wing, All India Democratic Women’s Association (AIDWA). “We oppose the decision strongly. This will do more harm to women than helping them. Instead of bridging gender gap and empowering women, the government is coming out with a new legislation laced with communal outlook,” AIDWA said in a statement. But the apex body of Christians, KCBC, lauded the decision to bring uniformity in the marriageable age of men and women. “We feel education remains a key factor and by 21 women will get an opportunity to complete their graduation. This paves way for a mature relationship and healthy family. Therefore, we view the decision positively,” said KCBC family commission secretary Father Paul Simenthy. BJP spokesman B Gopalakrishnan said: “It is a move aimed at protecting overall health of women and empowering them to handle situation with maturity. It is sad that so-called progressive forces like women wing of left parties are also opposing it. Same forces once opposed triple talaaq also and changes are quite visible in the community now.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/kerala-muslim-bodies-oppose-centre-s-move-to-raise-marriage-age-of-women-101639767721221.html
18-12-2021||India||Telangana reports 2 more Omicron cases||Two more cases of Omicron variant of coronavirus surfaced in Telangana on Friday, taking the total number of the cases of new variant to eight.State director of health G Srinivasa Rao told reporters on Friday that two of the fresh cases, one person came from Czech Republic and another woman from the United Kingdom. “We could trace the international traveller from Czech Republic in Hyderabad and the one from the UK at Subedari area in Hanamkonda district,” Rao said.On Thursday, four positive cases of Omicron variant were reported including three from Kenya and one is of Indian origin from Dubai. “So far, 6,764 international passengers from high risk countries were tested since December 1. Similarly, random sampling testing of passengers coming from other than “at countries,” was also done.In all, nine passengers, who were tested at the Hyderabad International Airport, turned out to be positive for Omicron variant. Of them, there were from Kenya, two from Dubai and one each from Abu Dhabi, Sudan, Czech Republic and London. Out of them, three are Indians, three are of Somalia nationality and two are Kenyans.Out of eight cases traced in Telangana, two – one from the UK and another from Czech Republic were fully vaccinated and other six were not vaccinated at all.“Based on their local residential address, seven cases were found to be from Hyderabad and one from Hanmakonda district. One case, that of a 7-year-old boy who belongs to Kolkata, was referred to West Bengal, as he did not enter Telangana and took the connecting flight to Kolkata soon after his arrival on December 12,” the director of health said.He clarified that going by the tracing and testing of the contacts, it was revealed that there was no community spreading of Omicron variant as of now.Rao said there was no need to panic about the new variant, as 95 per cent of the persons who contracted this virus that spread in 190 countries, did not report any major symptoms. Except one patient in the UK, there were no deaths in any of these countries.“We are fully prepared to tackle the third wave of the Coronavirus, even if there are 10 different varieties. The best way to prevent the spread of the virus is to get vaccinated. We request the people to get tested if they have any symptoms and be vaccinated twice, apart from following the Covid-19 precautions,” the director of health added.
18-12-2021||India||Opposition extends support to protesting Amaravati farmers||Barring the ruling YSR Congress party, all the opposition parties in Andhra Pradesh on Friday pledged their support to the two-year long agitation of farmers of Amaravati for retention of the state capital in their region and vowed to fight against the three capitals for the state. Leaders of Telugu Desam Party, Bharatiya Janata Party, Congress, Jana Sena and Communist Party of India besides representatives of various organisations like Andhra Intellectuals Forum, addressed a massive rally at Tirupati, on the conclusion of the 45-day padayatra by hundreds of farmers from Amaravati. Communist Party of India (Marxist) state secretary P Madhu, however, stayed away from the meeting on the ground that he cannot share the dais with the BJP leaders, but said his party would extend support to the demand for Amaravati as the only state capital of Andhra Pradesh. Interestingly, rebel YSR Congress party parliamentarian K Raghurama Raju, who has revolted against the Jagan Mohan Reddy government, attended the rally and assured that he would lobby with the Centre to see that Amaravati would remain the capital of the state. Giving the “Save Amaravati” call from the dais, TDP president and former chief minister N Chandrababu Naidu sought to know why Jagan Mohan Reddy was so adamant on creating three capitals for the state, when the entire opposition, including the national parties, were demanding that Amaravati should be continued as one and only capital of the state. He alleged that the YSRCP government had ditched thousands of farmers who had given away their lands for the construction of Amaravati. He wondered whether the chief minister was jealous of the huge potential of Amaravati. Naidu recalled that Prime Minister Narendra Modi had laid the foundation stone for the capital city at Amaravati and extended a financial assistance of ₹2,500 crore. “He also exempted the farmers of the capital city from paying capital gains tax. It was acknowledged as the people’s capital,” he said. Naidu complimented hundreds of farmers including men and women, who walked down from Amaravati to Tirupati to highlight their demand. He said they would get the divine blessings of Lord Venkateshwara. “The ultimate victory would be that of the farmers. Their agitation for the last two years would not go waste, as they are fighting for the future of five crore Telugu people,” he said. Former state BJP president Kanna Lakshminarayana, Jana Sena leader Hariprasad, CPI leaders K Narayana and P Ramakrishna and others pledged their support to the agitating farmers of Amaravati. 
18-12-2021||India||Elephant calf dies after being knocked down by train in Assam||An elephant calf was killed after being hit by a train at Bhelaguri, Nakachari under Mariani Range in Assam’s Jorhat district in the early hours on Friday.According to forest officials, the incident took place around 3.30 am when a male calf around 6 to 7 months old was knocked down by a train while it was trying to cross the tracks. It died on the spot.The accident occurred around 3 km from the Gibbon Wildlife Sanctuary. On preliminary investigation by forest personnel, it was found that the calf was hit by the New Delhi-Dibrugarh Rajdhani Express.The post-mortem of the carcass was conducted and other formalities are being carried out, a forest department statement indicated.Five elephants have died this year so far after being mowed down by trains.
18-12-2021||India||India to become fastest growing economy: Shah||India is emerging strong from the Covid-19 pandemic and is likely to become the fastest growing economy in the world, Union home minister Amit Shah said on Friday.Speaking at the 94th Annual General Meeting of the Federation of Indian Chambers of Commerce and Industry (FICCI), Shah said the government has taken various steps to counter the effects of Covid-19 by improving supply, and that the economy was reaching pre-Covid levels.“July to September GDP number has been at 8.4% and I think in the year 2021-22, India is likely to become the fastest growing economies in the world. I will not be surprised if we touch double digit growth,” a statement from FICCI quoted the minister as saying.Referring to several high frequency economic indicators exceeding pre-pandemic levels, the minister said the economy has come out strong. “Both the manufacturing and service sector index have reached the pre-Covid levels. With the announcements of various packages and relief, our inflation is in the range of 4-6% as set by the government,” he said.Highlighting the potential of the micro, small and medium enterprises (MSME) segment, the minister said unemployment in the country cannot be addressed till the time this segment is encouraged and supported. The minister also stressed on the need to spend more on research and development.Highlighting the NDA administration’s achievements, Shah said: “There has not been a single instance of corruption in the last seven years. We have provided a corruption-free government. We have taken many decisions and one or two may be wrong. But no one, not even critics, can say that our intention (niyat) is bad,” news agency PTI quoted Shah as saying.The home minister also said that there have been massive changes in the economy and 60 crore people, who were deprived of the country’s development process since independence, were made participants, the statement said.“There were 60 crore people, who did not have a bank account, they did not have electricity connection, gas connection or health facilities. The Modi government has given all of these to them and it has helped increase their faith in India’s democratic process,” Shah said, according to PTI.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/india-to-become-fastest-growing-economy-shah-101639766941320.html
18-12-2021||India||SC stays Madhya Pradesh civic body polls to OBC seats||The Supreme Court on Friday stayed the election process on seats reserved for other backward classes (OBC) in the municipal polls in Madhya Pradesh, the second state after Maharashtra where the court has suspended OBC quotas in local body polls for want of data.A bench of justices AM Khanwilkar and CT Ravikumar said it passed an order on December 15 directing the state election commission in Maharashtra to renotify OBC catgeory seats in the local body polls as general due to a lack of empirical data.“The same principle and analogy ought to apply to Madhya Pradesh as well…We direct the Madhya Pradesh state election commission to stay the election process in respect of OBCs seats only, in all the local bodies and to renotify those seats for general category,” the bench said.Notified on December 4, the elections were scheduled for January and February.In the Maharashtra case, the state government had bypassed an earlier decision of the top court requiring it to constitute a backward classes commission, collect empirical data on extent and backwardness of OBCs and reserve seats. Without doing this exercise, the Maharashtra SEC notified OBC seats in panchayat samitis and zilla parishads.“The fact remains that the elections to all the local bodies in Madhya Pradesh have been notified provisioning for reservation for OBC category. To that extent, the election programme needs to be stayed forthwith as it is in conflict with the decision of the Constitution Bench of this court in K. Krishna Murthy & Ors. versus Union of India and reiterated by three-judge bench in Vikas Kishanrao Gawali vs. State of Maharashtra (decided on December 15),” the bench noted.However, the bench clarified that election for general category seats shall proceed along with other elections already notified but results of all the seats (including renotified general seats) will be declared together on the same day||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/sc-stays-madhya-pradesh-civic-body-polls-to-obc-seats-101639766761216.html
18-12-2021||India||PM Modi says Varanasi’s development can be a road map for entire country at All India Mayors’ Conference||Prime Minister Narendra Modi virtually inaugurated the All India Mayors’ Conference in Varanasi on Friday and said that the city’s development could be a roadmap for the entire country.The development of the city, also known as Kashi, has been carried out in a traditional manner, which has set an example of how local skills and products can become the identity of a city, he said.“I am looking at the All India Mayors’ Conference programme being held in Kashi with many possibilities. On the one hand, it is the world’s oldest city Banaras and on the other hand (there is) the outline of the modern cities of modern India. During my recent visit to Kashi, I said Kashi’s development can become a roadmap for the entire country. Most of the cities in our country are traditional cities, which have developed traditionally,” he said.“In this era of modernisation, the antiquity of these cities is equally important. That is why we need to modernize the cities while preserving our rich heritage and traditions as we are doing in Kashi. Keeping in mind the future needs, we will have to make a modern city. We will have to nurture heritage. Virasat bhi chahiye, vikas bhi chahiye (both heritage and development are needed),” he said.As many as 120 mayors from different states attended the conference at Pt Deendayal Upadhyay Trade Facilitation Centre in Varanasi. The theme of the meet was ‘New Urban India’.The prime minister also laid stress on a sensitive approach towards rivers and lakes and urged mayors to organise river festivals annually on river banks to make people aware of their historical and cultural importance.“The water crisis is a global phenomenon, and attention is needed to be paid to rivers flowing by towns,” Modi said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/pm-narendra-modi-inaugurates-all-india-mayors-conference-says-varanasi-s-development-can-be-a-road-map-for-entire-country-101639766584813.html
18-12-2021||India||‘Pink Police’: Goa’s new offering for women, children and tourists||The Goa government has launched a special Pink Police Force especially to take care of tourists, women and children. Speaking at the launch, Goa Chief Minister Pramod Sawant said the ‘elite’ specially trained force consisting of women would be available round-the-clock to assist mainly in the prevention of crime as well as to help women, children and tourists in need. “They will be given expert training; counselling and they will also be given round-the- clock duty. Their aim will be crime prevention. They will work towards not crime detection but crime prevention,” Sawant said at the launch. “Goa is the first state in the country to launch such a force,” the Goa CM said at the inauguration. He said that initially the force will be stationed at 11 police stations across the state while being gradually expanded to include all police stations across the state. The BJP-led government came in for criticism for a string of violent crimes against tourists as well as women with the government being accused of neglecting the law and order situation in the state.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/pink-police-goa-s-new-offering-for-women-children-and-tourists-101639766521198.html
18-12-2021||India||Varavara Rao is stable, should be back in jail, NIA tells Bombay HC||The National Investigation Agency (NIA) told the Bombay high court on Friday that poet-activist Varavara Rao, an accused in the 2018 Bhima Koregaon violence case who is out on medical bail, was stable and must surrender before jail authorities.The development came on a day an international investigative consortium reported that a forensic analysis of activist Rona Wilson’s phone found he was targeted by the Pegasus snooping software. Wilson is one of the 16 activists facing terrorism and conspiracy charges in Maharashtra’s Bhima Koregaon village on January 1, 2018.In the high court, NIA counsel Sandesh Patil said 83-year-old Rao was medically examined earlier this month and the doctors were of the opinion that he did not need continuous medical attention or hospitalisation. “His health condition is stable now and the time granted via medical bail to him by this court is already over. So, he (Rao) should surrender now. All other issues (raised by Rao’s lawyers) can be examined after that,” Patil told the high court.Rao is one of two people accused in the case to be out on bail. Earlier this month, the Bombay high court granted default bail to Sudha Bharadwaj. A third accused, Stan Swamy, died in July.Before being granted medical bail for six months in February this year, Rao was lodged in Taloja prison. He was due to surrender on September 5, but the time of his surrender was extended several times by the high court. His counsel Anand Grover said the high court must not accept the NIA’s conclusion without insisting on original medical reports. “Ask the hospital to submit original medical reports on Monday. If we find there is something that needs to be addressed, we will hear the parties,” the high court told the NIA.Meanwhile, a forensic analysis of Wilson’s phone by Amnesty International found it was infected with Pegasus between July 2017 and March 2018, reported the international consortium. Wilson’s name was earlier on a list of potential targets of the spyware.Etienne Maynier, a technologist at Amnesty International’s Security Lab, said Wilson’s phone was compromised by Pegasus in July 2017, and again in February and March 2018, according to the reports. The analysis found Wilson’s phone was targeted with 15 messages containing Pegasus attack links. Clicking on any one of these could also have compromised the phone, it added. In June, Wilson moved the Bombay high court seeking the quashing of criminal proceedings against him after an American digital forensics company concluded that fabricated evidence was planted in the electronic devices seized from his residence in 2018.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/varavara-rao-is-stable-should-be-back-in-jail-nia-tells-bombay-hc-101639766460904.html
18-12-2021||India||‘Can’t deny non-Hindus right to do business near temples’: SC||People cannot be denied their right to carry out commercial activity on temple premises just because they are not Hindus, the Supreme Court observed on Friday, directing the Andhra Pradesh government to grant licence and lease for shops to non-Hindus as well at Srisailam’s Sri Bhramaramba Mallikarjuna Swamy Varla Devasthanam in the state’s Kurnool district.The court, in its brief order, clarified that any other order passed by the Andhra Pradesh high court against grant of licence or lease to non-Hindus shall cease to operate against the state government and the Devasthanam management.“We direct that none of the tenants or shop owners shall be excluded from participating in the auction or in the grant of leases, including in the shopping complex, solely on the ground of their religion,” ordered a bench of justices Dhananjaya Y Chandrachud and AS Bopanna.The bench, during the hearing, also expressed displeasure at the state government’s order which maintained that “no person professing other than Hinduism as his religion is entitled to obtain lease or licence either to tender-cum-public auction of the shops, malls, etc coming under the jurisdiction of AP Charitable and Hindu Religious Institution and Endowments Act, 1987.”“It is one thing to say that you cannot have a liquor shop or anything like this in a temple premises but to say that non-Hindus cannot conduct any commercial activity is too far-fetched. How can you say that a non-Hindu cannot even sell flowers or toys there? If the need arise, we will set aside such judgments,” the bench told senior advocate CS Vaidyanathan, who appeared for the YS Jaganmohan Reddy-led government.Vaidyanathan, on his part, said the temple at Srisailam is governed by statutory enactment, empowering the government to frame rules for employment in the temple as well as for regulating other ancillary activities there. “If that is the case, your rules will be in violation of Part III of the Constitution (the chapter on fundamental rights). No, we cannot allow this. We will say you will make allotments to all irrespective of their religion,” retorted the bench.The court was considering a bunch of pleas against the high court’s September 2019 judgment affirming the state government order on prohibiting non-Hindus against obtaining lease and licence for shops, malls and shopping complexes belonging to Hindu religious institutions.The petitioners, all Muslims, said that the 2015 government order violated their right to life as they ran shops at these properties leased to them in accordance with norms. “The administration of properties belonging to a religious group are not matters of religion covered under Article 26 (B) of the Constitution of India and that permitting public auction without illegal and arbitrary restrictions does not take away constitutional rights of administration in the hands of a religious denomination,” they contended.According to the petition, many petitioners before the court order were running their shops in the Srisailam’s temple property as tenants since 1980 but were now being discriminated against solely on the basis of their religion.In August 2019, the state government passed orders that only Hindus would be appointed in jobs in Hindu temples. Until then, such policy existed only in the Tirumala Tirupati Devasthanam. The 2019 order issued by the state government said that only persons from Hindu religion are allowed to work in Hindu temples and their departments. If there are any people from other religion working in Hindu temples, as per the order, such persons would be transferred to other departments.
18-12-2021||India||Prime Minister Narendra Modi to lay foundation stone of Ganga E-way in UP today||Prime Minister Narendra Modi will lay the foundation stone of the Ganga Expressway in poll-bound Uttar Pradesh’s Shahjahanpur on Saturday, officials familiar with the development said on Friday.The expressway, connecting Meerut to Prayagraj, will pass through 12 districts of Uttar Pradesh and connect the western and eastern regions of the state, officials said.Terming it the longest expressway in Uttar Pradesh, chief minister Yogi Adityanath on Friday said the Ganga Expressway will give “thrust to the economic activities” and “remove economic imbalance” in the state. “It will be a step towards converting UP into an expressway state. The Purvanchal expressway has been dedicated to the people by the PM, traffic on the Bundelkhand expressway will be opened soon and the work on the Gorakhpur link expressway and Ballia link expressway is continuing on a war footing,” Adityanath said.The six-lane Ganga Expressway will also have a 3.5-km airstrip for assisting emergency take-off and landing of Air Force planes. The 594-km expressway will be built at a cost of over ₹36,200 crore, officials said.Starting near the Bijauli village in Meerut, the expressway will extend till the Judapur Dandu village in Prayagraj while passing through Meerut, Hapur, Bulandshahr, Amroha, Sambhal, Badaun, Shahjahanpur, Hardoi, Unnao, Rae Bareli, Pratapgarh and Prayagraj.An industrial corridor is also proposed to be built along the expressway, officials said.Ahead of the elections to 403-member state assembly, PM Modi has launched a string of projects in eastern Uttar Pradesh, including Kushinagar international airport, Purvanchal Expressway and Saryu Nahar National Project. He also inaugurated a fertiliser factory and AIIMS at Gorakhpur, nine medical colleges at Siddharthnagar and the Kashi Vishwanath Corridor in Varanasi.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/prime-minister-narendra-modi-to-lay-foundation-stone-of-ganga-expressway-in-uttar-pradesh-today-101639766404996.html
18-12-2021||India||What we know about Omicron variant so far||Is Omicron more, less, or as severe as the other variants?Two new outbreak analyses in UK said on Friday that early data provides no evidence of Omicron being milder. Both analyses take into account preliminary hospital data and infection patterns in thousands of people and one of them, by researchers from Imperial College London, found that the odds of being hospitalised with Omicron and Delta may be similar.“The study finds no evidence of Omicron having lower severity than Delta, judged by either the proportion of people testing positive who report symptoms, or by the proportion of cases seeking hospital care after infection,” said a statement by the Imperial College’s MRC Centre for Global Infectious Disease Analysis.The statement added, however, “hospitalisation data remains very limited at this time”. The second UK report was by the UK government’s Health Security Agency (UKHSA), which said, “there is no signal that supports a difference in the intrinsic virulence of the Omicron virus compared to Delta”.But a briefing by health officials in South Africa offered some contradictory signals, suggesting the disease manifested less severely in the country, although they too added caveats of the data being preliminary.South Africa’s deputy health minister Sibongiseni Dhlomo unveiled slides showing fatality ratio in all age groups infected with Omicron at present was a third of the numbers seen during the previous two waves in the country, which were caused by the Beta and the Delta variant. Experts, however, said the SA officials’ calculating fatality ratio at 25 days may be premature.But where experts from all around the world have agreed is that Omicron is significantly more transmissible and resistant to immunity.The Imperial College’s report builds on that, using larger sets of infection data from UK than a similar report released by government experts one week ago.On transmissibility, it found that Omicron currently has a reproduction number (denoted as R) of 3, while Delta had 1. This implies one Omicron infection leads to three more, and those pass on to three more each – leading to 27 cases in just two rounds of onward transmission, while Delta would cause only three.On immune resistance, the Imperial College assessment found protection from Covid-19 offered by a past infection plummeted to 19%, compared to 85% with other variants. Similarly, vaccine efficacy, dropped to 0-20% after a two-dose course of the AstraZeneca or Pfizer vaccines.What does this mean for India?Niti Aayog’s VK Paul used a simple but effective extrapolation of per capita infection rates seen elsewhere to illustrate how significant a threat Omicron could be for India.“If we see the number of cases in UK yesterday, it would translate to 1.4 million cases a day in India… If we see the number of cases, it is equivalent to 1.3 million cases in India’s population,” he said at the health briefing on Friday.The implications of such a large spread, even for a country where at least two-thirds of the population is estimated to have had a past infection and where at least 87% have taken one dose of the vaccine, can be further whittled down to specific outcomes.Hospitals face a significant threatFor this factor alone, there are several reasons. First, being there is still an estimated population of over 110 million adults without any Covid-19 vaccine dose.Severe cases among this population added to the likely (albeit significantly lower) hospitalisation among breakthrough or repeat infection cases, especially among the elderly and those with compromised immunity, could still be a significant number in a country of 1.3 billion people.But the bigger threat may be from staff shortages of the nature being predicted in the UK. England’s chief medical officer Chris Whitty said there could be significant gaps in hospital staff duty because of the “very sharp peak” of Omicron that is expected over the next month.Health care workers in India, unlike a large proportion in the UK, are yet to receive booster doses.Testing likely to be strainedDepending on how government mandates testing in its policy tweaks – for example, will all close contacts of Omicron cases need to be tested compulsorily as they are now – a large outbreak could stretch India’s testing infrastructure to beyond its capacity.UK, which has registered record number of new cases in the past two days, is carrying out 18 tests per thousand people, according to Our World in Data. The corresponding number for India at present is 0.86 and, at its peak during the second wave, it was 2.26 per thousand people.Effect on children and elderly unknownIndia is yet to open vaccination of children or allow boosters to any part of the population, including the elderly who began to be covered early last year.Children are likely to remain significantly less at risk due to their inherent immunity advantage, experts have said recently, but a highly transmissible virus will breach deeper into the population, posing a greater threat to any child with compromised immunity.Experts have also called for boosters to be allowed to the elderly, who would likely have seen some drop in antibody levels as are typical of all vaccines after a period of 6-8 months. More data on how much more severe Omicron is inherently and details of severe disease even in vaccine breakthrough cases will hold the key to understanding the sort of threat that it poses for both these populations.
18-12-2021||India||Govt advises caution as Omicron tally tops 100||As India’s tally of infections of the Omicron variant soared past the 100-mark on Friday, the Union health ministry urged caution in light of the rapid global spread of the heavily mutated variant, and said the time has come for people to avoid all non-essential travel and keep New Year celebrations at “low intensity”. In its routine Covid briefing, the ministry also seemed to suggest that no decision on booster doses of Covid vaccines has been taken yet.Friday saw the highest single-day rise in Omicron infections in India with 26 new cases of the heavily mutated variant reported by states across India — 12 in Delhi, eight in Maharashtra, and two each in Telangana, Gujarat and Kerala — pushing the national Omicron tally to 113.Friday was the fourth day in a row that the country’s Omicron tally saw a relatively significant increase. On both Tuesday and Wednesday, there were 12 new Omicron infections detected across India, while on Thursday, there were 14 such cases.“We know that the Omicron variant is spreading very fast across Europe and most parts of the world. In light of this, we need to do three very important things — it is time to avoid non-essential travel, it is time to avoid mass gatherings, and the time has come to observe low intensity festivities as we usher in the New Year,” said Dr Balram Bharagava, Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR) chief.In total, Maharashtra has now reported 40 Omicron infections, Delhi has reported 22 such cases, Rajasthan has seen 17, Karnataka and Telangana have both reported eight each, followed by Kerala and Gujarat with seven each, and a single infection each reported in Andhra Pradesh, Chandigarh, Tamil Nadu and West Bengal. Another two Omicron cases were reported by loval officials in Ghaziabad on Friday, however, the UP government was yet to confirm these cases till late Friday night.To be sure, a considerable proportion of these cases have already recovered from the infection, while nearly all the infected people in the country so far have exhibited only mild symptoms, or none at all. In Maharashtra, for instance, 25 Omicron cases have been discharged, while the recovery count is 10 in Delhi.Government officials also expressed alarm over the worsening Covid-19 situation abroad and stressed that India needs to ensure such conditions do not arise here. The situation in many parts of the world, in particular in Africa and in Europe, has taken a turn for the worse due to the Omicron variant, and these regions are seeing a “cyclone-like rise in infections”, they said.“A new phase of the pandemic has started in Europe; and this is something that we have always been on the lookout for. The government has taken comprehensive and far-reaching measures to prevent the ingress of Omicron into the country... But despite that we need to be very careful that these conditions do not reach India,” said Dr VK Paul, member (health), NITI Aayog, adding that the country needs to prepare to face an adverse situation nonetheless.They said that the Omicron variant has now been found in 91 countries in the world. Citing the World Health Organisation (WHO), they said that the heavily mutated variant is spreading faster than the Delta variant.“WHO has said that Omicron is spreading faster than the Delta variant in South Africa where Delta circulation was low. It’s likely Omicron will outpace Delta variant where community transmission occurs, WHO has said,” said Lav Agarwal, joint secretary, health ministry.On the current Covid-19 situation in the country, the officials said there are 24 districts of “serious concern” with a high weekly positivity rate — 19 have weekly positivity between 5% and 10% and five districts reporting a positivity rate of over 10%.“These 24 districts need to enforce local restrictive measures to bring their weekly test positivity rate below 5% for at least two weeks,” said Dr Bharagava.The national positivity rate, however, remains under control — it has been under 3% for 17 weeks in a row; under 2% in past 12 weeks and below 1% in past four weeks, they said.In light of the rising number of domestic cases of Omicron, officials added that they are keeping a track of variants in circulation within the country, but that it is not possible to run genome sequencing of every sample. “[Genome sequencing] is a surveillance and pandemic assessment and tracking tool, not a diagnostic tool as of now. We can assure sufficient systematic sampling is being undertaken,” said Paul, without putting a number to it. It wasn’t immediately known what proportion of samples of the seven-day average of 7,342 cases is currently being sequenced.Experts say that the Omicron numbers may be low at the moment in India, but the picture could change because of the high transmission rate of this heavily mutated variant.“India should be worried, as even a milder disease variant (which is still not clear since data in early stages are not sufficient to address confounding) can be a problem when numbers are large,” said Dr Gagandeep Kang, one of country’s top vaccine experts, and senior faculty, Christian Medical College, Vellore (Tamil Nadu).Dr Navin Kumar, head of clinical microbiology department, Manipal Hospitals, said,”The viruses are known to mutate, and so is the case with Sars-CoV-2. We may not be seeing a higher hospitalisation rate with Omicron, still it would be too early to label it as a variant causing mild disease. What we are seeing currently is very early indications, with numbers being small, which may change in future. We also have unvaccinated children; Therefore, we need to be vigilant, especially when it comes to dealing with people. Wearing a mask is extremely important, and one must also avoid mass gatherings in poorly ventilated settings.”Experts also say that vaccination is important to keep the disease severity low, and it is time for introducing booster dose for the vulnerable population. “For subsets (immunocompromised), elderly, comorbidities – it makes sense to protect them as much as possible as early as possible. For the rest, timing and type of vaccine need data to back use,” added Kang.India’s first batch of Omicron cases was reported from Bengaluru on December 2 when two people – a 66-year-old and a 46-year-old male — tested positive for the variant. Since then, 10 other regions have reported cases of the variant.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/govt-advises-caution-as-omicron-tally-tops-100-101639766284601.html
18-12-2021||India||Pramod Sawant orders probe after BJP MLA claims bribes paid for Goa PWD jobs||PANAJI: The Goa government has launched a vigilance inquiry into allegations that bribes were paid for jobs in the public works department (PWD), Goa chief minister Pramod Sawant said on Friday. The chief minister’s announcement came after a lawmaker of the ruling Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) levelled bribery allegations against public works minister Deepal Pauskar.Sawant said he was setting up a three-member committee of officials to probe the allegation.“Principal secretary Puneet Kumar, special secretary (vigilance) Ankita Anand and director vigilance will inquire into the issue. Until they submit the report, the process of recruitment in the PWD department has been kept on hold,” Sawant told reporters.Pauskar has denied the allegations, insisting that he has no role in the recruitment process that was being handled independently by his department.BJP MLA and former minister Atanasio Monserrate has accused his party colleague and PWD minister Deepak Pauskar of demanding and accepting ₹25-30 lakh per post in the department of public works, recruitment for which is currently underway.Monserrate claimed he has “proof that Pauskar was selling the posts to the highest bidder” and called on the chief minister to scrap the current recruitment process.“I’m making a direct allegation that the minister of PWD and the PCE has taken money from people to get their names selected. I have proof that people have paid the minister around ₹25-30 lakhs for each post and the minister sold the post to the highest bidder,” Monserrate said.“I have got people who will testify that the minister has taken money. I demand the chief minister withdraw this list and have a fresh exam as far as the PWD ministry is concerned,” Monserrate alleged.“The student who has got the highest marks (in the screening test) is actually the highest bidder for the post. He has sold 90% of the jobs. 300 jobs multiply by ₹30-35 lakhs. It is a more than ₹70 crore scam. It is high time the CM takes action. The youth of Goa are watching the chief minister. If he is really interested in the youth he will take action,” Monserrate said.Pauskar claimed that Monserrate is upset that the names he ‘recommended’ were not selected, which led to his outburst.“He had come to meet me to recommend some names. But I told him that the process is being done independently and not on the basis of recommendations and I cannot interfere in it,” Pauskar said.“I have no role in the recruitment and it is being done by professors of the Goa Engineering College who are assessing the papers,” he added.Monserrate said a college professor was also involved. He claimed to have details of the flat where the minister and a professor who assessed the papers met to decide marks scored by the candidates.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/pramod-sawant-orders-probe-after-bjp-mla-claims-bribes-paid-for-goa-pwd-jobs-101639766283992.html
18-12-2021||India||SC restrains Pegasus probe by Bengal panel||The Supreme Court on Friday restrained a West Bengal government-appointed two-member Commission of Inquiry, headed by retired top court judge, justice Madan B Lokur, from investigating the alleged use of the Israeli Pegasus spyware to snoop on Indian citizens.A bench, headed by Chief Justice of India (CJI) NV Ramana, directed a “stay on all further proceedings by the commission” on a complaint by petitioner NGO, Global Village Foundation Public Charitable Trust, that the justice Lokur panel was proceeding despite an assurance by the state government that it would not.The bench, which also included justices Surya Kant and Hima Kohli, further issued a formal notice to the panel, through its secretary, and sought a response in four weeks.The court recorded in its order a submission by senior advocate Abhishek Manu Singhvi, who appeared for the West Bengal government, that the state asked justice Lokur commission to withhold its inquiry, but he could not say anything further because he was not representing the commission in the present proceedings.The bench was hearing a plea by the NGO, which contended that the justice Lokur commission was proceeding with its inquiry in breach of state’s promise to suspend its work during the pendency of the issue before the top court. Senior counsel Harish Salve and advocate Saurabh Mishra represented the NGO.When the hearing commenced on Friday, the CJI asked Singhvi: “What’s this, Mr Singhvi? You gave an undertaking that you won’t proceed.”Singhvi responded that the state’s commission did not do anything until the Supreme Court’s October order whereby a three-member expert committee, to be supervised by a retired judge of the court, RV Raveendran, was set up to investigate whether the Centre or any state government acquired and used Pegasus for surveillance of Indian citizens, and to ascertain details of the people targeted. “I (state government) conveyed to them the restraint desired by this court. But I don’t control the commission. I can’t give instructions to them. They didn’t do anything till this court passed this order and then they started proceeding,” Singhvi said.To this, the bench said that in view of these submissions, the justice Lokur commission needs to be added as a party in the NGO’s PIL, which has demanded disbanding of the panel. The court then passed its interim order of restraint and also issued a notice.On August 18, the bench agreed to examine the NGO’s petition, which also asked for an immediate stay on proceedings before justice Lokur’s commission to avoid any parallel inquiry in view of the apex court already hearing a clutch of petitions on the Pegasus controversy and examining the need to constitute an independent committee for an investigation.Responding to this petition, the West Bengal government justified setting up a commission of its own, contending that the central government has remained “non-committal and evasive” on this issue. The commission will “put into place effective countermeasures against any rogue foreign spyware”, said the state, adding that justice Lokur commission could coexist with the proceedings before the top court.It maintained that given the potential ramifications of the media reports on the fundamental right to privacy, “the state government could not sit as a silent spectator particularly when the Union government was not only non-committal and evasive on the subject but had also at the very threshold dismissed the allegations under the rubric of sensationalism.”However, when the NGO’s matter was taken up with the batch of other petitions filed by politicians, journalists and activists on August 25, the bench questioned the West Bengal government over two parallel proceedings, prompting Singhvi to submit that he would convey the court’s disapproval to justice Lokur commission.By an order on October 27, the bench set up an expert committee, engaging the services of some well-known experts in the field of computer science, cybersecurity and digital forensics, under the supervision of its retired judge Raveendran.The committee was asked to ascertain whether the Centre or any state government acquired Pegasus and used it on the phones or other devices of the citizens of the country to access stored data and other information. Eight weeks were given to the expert panel to submit its first report.The top court held that the Union government cannot get “a free pass every time” by raising the spectre of “national security” when the issues concern the “potential chilling effect” on right to privacy and freedom of speech. It referred to the lack of a “specific denial” by the government and also its reluctance to file a “detailed affidavit”.It further asserted that “in a democratic country governed by the rule of law, indiscriminate spying on individuals cannot be allowed except with sufficient statutory safeguards, by following the procedure established by law under the Constitution.The Pegasus row erupted on July 18 after an international consortium of media outlets and investigative journalists reported that the phones of Indian ministers, politicians, activists, businessmen and journalists were among the 50,000 that were potentially targeted by Pegasus, Israeli company NSO Group’s phone hacking software. According to this consortium, Pegasus can switch on a target’s phone camera and microphone, as well as access data on the device, effectively turning the phone into a pocket spy.
18-12-2021||India||MPs’ suspension: Opposition holds ‘jan sansad’, Rajya Sabha logjam continues||Opposition parties protesting against the suspension of 12 lawmakers hosted a jan sansad or people’s parliament near the Mahatma Gandhi statue in the complex on Friday, soon after the Upper House was adjourned for the day.Chairs were put on both sides of the statue, and Communist Party of India (Marxist) floor leader Elamaram Kareem presided over the jan sansad. Congressmen Ripun Bora and Akhilesh Pratap Singh were deputed as the leader of the House and parliamentary affairs minister respectively, while a chair with a photograph of Prime Minister Narendra Modi was used to take pot shots at his absence from the Upper House.“He has not come to the (Upper) House even once this session,” said Trinamool Congress member Dola Sen, one of the 12 MPs suspended for unruly scenes in the previous session.Apart from the suspended MPs -- which included Phulo Devi Netam (Congress), Priyanka Chaturvedi (Shiv Sena) Chhaya Verma (Congress), among others -- their party colleagues Jaya Bachchan (Samajwadi Party), Mausam Noor (Trinamool Congress), Vishwambar Prasad Nishad (Samajwadi Party) and Nadimul Haque (Trinamool Congress) also joined the protest proceedings.Opposition members have been adamant that the chairperson should revisit the decision to suspend the MPs. They have also refused to apologise for disruptions in the monsoon session, a precondition set by the government for revoking the suspension.“We have been telling them to apologise to the House. They climbed on tables, jostled with marshals and disrespected the Chair and the House,” minister of parliamentary affairs, Pralhad Joshi, said earlier in response to the Opposition’s refusal to apologise.Earlier, in the day, Rajya Sabha chairman M Venkaiah Naidu adjourned the House till Monday after urging both sides to end the impasse over the suspension.“…Today, I had a talk with the Leader of the House and also some senior members of Opposition. I would like to appeal to each one of you to please arrive at some consensus to see to it that the House functions normally. In order to facilitate discussion among yourselves,” Naidu said.According to people aware of the details, Naidu dialled and also met senior Congress leaders in the presence of Leader of the House Piyush Goyal in the morning in a bid to break the logjam over the suspensions. With both refusing to relent, the meeting bore no results, the people said.
18-12-2021||India||Disciplinary action against people with mental disabilities a facet of discrimination: Supreme Court||Disciplinary action against people with mental disabilities is a facet of indirect discrimination, held the Supreme Court on Friday as it set aside inquiry proceedings against an assistant commandant of the Central Reserve Police Force (CRPF) over charges of misconduct. A bench of justices Dhananjaya Y Chandrachud, Surya Kant and Vikram Nath said that a person with a disability is entitled to protection under the Right to Persons with Disability (RPwD) Act as long as the disability is one of the factors for the discriminatory act. It added that the mental disability is not required to be the exclusive reason behind the misconduct and that it could very well be one of many reasons.“The mental disability impairs the ability of persons to comply with workplace standards in comparison to their able-bodied counterparts. Such persons suffer a disproportionate disadvantage due to the impairment and are more likely to be subjected to disciplinary proceedings. Thus, the initiation of disciplinary proceedings against persons with mental disabilities is a facet of indirect discrimination,” said the court. Where people with mental disabilities find themselves falling foul of the standards of workplace conduct on account of their disability, the court said, disciplinary proceedings may take the form of discrimination because a person with a mental disability may have an impaired ability to comply with workplace standards. “Often the process of the disciplinary proceedings is the punishment...While the stigma and discrimination against persons with mental health disorders are rampant in society, as the highest constitutional court of the country, it falls upon us to ensure that societal discrimination does not translate into legal discrimination,” underlined the bench.It further emphasised that is extremely important to not stigmatise or discriminate against people having mental health issues or any other form of disability because such discrimination would only further entrench the feeling of being ‘disabled’.The court made these observations while allowing an appeal by the assistant commandant, who faced disciplinary proceedings after he used unparliamentary language, appeared in television channels and other print media without the prior approval of the department, tried to intentionally cause an accident, and assaulted a deputy commandant in 2010. While he was placed under suspension in October 2010, a notice was issued to him in August 2015 following an enquiry. CRPF defended its action arguing that he was involved in various acts of misconduct during 2010 and 2011, for which three different departmental inquiries were initiated against him. It also rebutted the officer’s submission that he developed mental health issues in 2008, after he was continuously posted in areas where anti-insurgency operations were being conducted from 2003 to 2010. CRPF said that exposure to insurgency does not result in the development of mental health issues. Innumerable officers are posted in such areas and are performing their duties.But the bench proceeded to set aside the inquiry proceedings, noting that while all CRPF personnel may be subject to disciplinary proceedings on charges of misconduct, the petitioner is more vulnerable to engage in behaviour that can be classified as misconduct because of his mental disability. “He is at a disproportionate disadvantage of being subjected to such proceedings in comparison to his able-bodied counterparts...he is only required to prove that disability was one of the factors that led to the institution of disciplinary proceedings against him on the charge of misconduct,” said the bench.It held that the officer is also entitled to the protection under the RPwD Act against termination or demotion owing to his disability. The court said that if he is found unsuitable for his current employment duty, he should be reassigned to an alternate post while protecting his pay, emoluments and conditions of service. The authorities will be at liberty to ensure that the assignment to an alternate post does not involve the use of or control over firearms or equipment which may pose a danger to him or others in or around the workplace, added the court.
18-12-2021||India||PM Modi meets UP MPs over breakfast, will visit poll-bound state||The Bharatiya Janata Party’s election campaign in poll-bound Uttar Pradesh has moved up a gear with a clutch of rallies and programmes to be addressed by Prime Minister Narendra Modi over the next 10 days.The PM, who is the party’s biggest crowd-puller and face of all its election campaigns, is scheduled to travel to Uttar Pradesh four times between December 18 and December 28 said party functionaries aware of the details.In UP, the BJP, which won 325 of the 403 seats in the assembly in 2017, is pulling out all the stops to not just retain power but also maintain a significant lead over its opponents.“So far the PM has visited the state for inaugurating infrastructure projects in Gorakhpur, Sultanpur, Varanasi, Jhansi, Greater Noida and Balrampur. He was also present for the unveiling of the Kashi Vishwanath dham in his constituency, which is a big-ticket development project. He is now expected to lay the foundation stone of the Ganga Expressway connecting the western and eastern regions of the state on December 18,” said one party functionary, asking not to be named.On December 21, the PM will be in Prayagraj where he will distribute certificates to 2.5 lakh women beneficiaries of various government schemes, including the members of self-help groups (SHGs). A second visit in less than two weeks has been planned for Varanasi, where on December 23 he will inaugurate several projects, including a safe- city CCTV one and lay the foundation stone of a dairy plant. “On December 28, he will inaugurate the first leg of the Kanpur Metro Project and attend the annual convocation of IIT Kanpur,” added the functionary quoted above.The emphasis is to showcase development, this person said.“The campaign is pivoted around the damdaar (powerful) combination of PM Modi and CM (Aditynath) Yogi. The work done by the state government and the centre can be seen on the ground. The beneficiaries of the social schemes across castes.”On Friday, the PM met around 40 BJP lawmakers from Uttar Pradesh for a breakfast meeting. The discussions were largely apolitical people aware of the details said.During the interaction, PM Modi urged the lawmakers to interact with senior leaders both in the party and in society, and to learn from their experiences. He also highlighted the need to focus on sports events and wellness activities, and told the MPs to conduct sporting competitions across the state to encourage young people, especially women. According to second party functionary, the PM underscored the need to focus on the “sports economy”.The lawmakers were also asked to chalk out innovate ways to celebrate the “Azadi Ka Amrit Mahatosav” initiative, a year-long celebration of India’s 75th year of independence.“Not all the MPs from the state were present. It was a meeting that was attended by about 40 MPs, mostly from the Lok Sabha,” said the second party functionary. Several MPs from poll-bound UP are engaged in campaign-related activities and have not been attending the ongoing winter session of Parliament.The minister of state for home affairs, Ajay Misra ‘Teni’, didn’t attend the meeting. Teni is in the centre of a controversy surrounding allegations of his son’s involvement in the Lakhimpur Kheri violence against protesting farmers. The Opposition has been calling for his dismissal from government. The incident itself wasn’t discussed at the meeting, the functionaries said.
18-12-2021||India||Samajwadi Party, allies will contest all 403 Uttar Pradesh assembly seats, including Amethi and Rae Bareli: Akhilesh Yadav||Lucknow: The Samajwadi Party (SP) and its allies will contest all 403 assembly seats in Uttar Pradesh, including Rae Bareli and Amethi, thereby not leaving any seats for the Congress in its two pocket boroughs, SP president Akhilesh Yadav said on Friday. The state assembly polls are due in February-March next year. All the alliances that the SP has announced so far were firmed up after working out the seat-sharing formula with the partners, Yadav told reporters at the start of the seventh phase of his Vijay Yatra (political rath yatra for 2022 polls) in Rae Bareli. “The SP, with its allies, will contest all the 403 assembly seats in the state, including Rae Bareli and Amethi. (We) will contest the elections at full throttle and form the next government in the state,” Yadav said. Rae Bareli is the Lok Sabha constituency of Congress president Sonia Gandhi while Rahul Gandhi had been winning the Amethi Lok Sabha seat since 2004 till Bharatiya Janata Party’s Smriti Irani wrested it from him in 2019. “Out of respect and courtesy, the SP and Congress had been leaving seats for each other (for each other’s top family members) in Lok Sabha elections. But these are the Vidhan Sabha polls, and SP had always contested assembly elections with full force. The SP had registered big wins in the assembly polls in these constituencies also,” Yadav said. UP Congress spokesperson Zeeshan Haider said his party was also not leaving any seats in SP pocket boroughs —Etawah, Mainpuri. “Who cares? It’s their party, whatever they decide. We are also contesting all 403 seats and we too are not leaving any seats in Etawah, Mainpuri,” Haider added.When asked about the alliance with his uncle Shivpal Yadav’s Pragatisheel Samajwadi Party-Lohia (PSP-L) and seat-sharing, the former Uttar Pradesh chief minister said: “Each alliance was announced only after deciding seat-sharing with the allies. Our endeavour was to bring regional parties together, and his (Shivpal’s) party too is a regional party. The alliance will get seats in their respective regions of influence.” The SP had allied with the Congress for the 2017 state assembly polls and with the Bahujan Samaj Party (BSP) in the 2019 Lok Sabha elections, but this time, it steered clear of any big parties. Instead, the SP has tied up with several small and regional parties such as Suheldev Bharatiya Samaj Party (SBSP), Janwadi Party (Socialist), Apna Dal (Krishna Patel) in eastern Uttar Pradesh, the Rashtriya Lok Dal (RLD) in western UP and Mahan Dal in the Rohilkhand region of the state. Yadav also attacked the BJP government, saying people faced “dikkat, killat, zillat (adversity, scarcity, humiliation)” under its rule. He alleged the Yogi Adityanath government has taken Uttar Pradesh to top position in the country in “custodial deaths, hunger index and farmer suicides”. Addressing the people from atop the campaign bus, Yadav said, “Those who claim to make Uttar Pradesh number one in the country have actually taken it to the top position in custodial deaths, hunger index, farmer suicides, in selling public enterprises and banks and in burying cows alive. Can anyone imagine that cows can be buried alive?” Alleging there is no “ease of doing business” in Uttar Pradesh, the former CM said there is “ease of doing crime” instead. “In which area is UP in the number one position? In UP, there is no ease of doing business but ease of doing crime. Look at the condition of roads. If you smash a coconut on a newly-built road for inauguration, the coconut won’t break, the road would,” he said. “This government has totally failed. People will not rest till they throw out the double-engine government in UP,” Yadav added. He also hinted at unemployment allowance being made part of the party’s manifesto for the upcoming assembly polls. “People should wait for the SP manifesto, which might also talk about unemployment allowance and employment opportunities,” said Yadav. He added that if returned to power in Uttar Pradesh, his government would give honorarium to former panchayat representatives.BJP leader Abhishek Pandey ‘Rupak’ rejected SP chief’s “dikkat, killat, zillat” allegations, saying, “Akhilesh ji knows the 2022 UP campaign is over and that is why he is talking nonsense. There is little point in responding to a politician who talks of country divider Jinnah in the same breath as one who kept country united Sardar Patel, who first makes a shocking remark against PM and then clarifies, who doesn’t think it proper to admonish his party MP for making a shockingly irresponsible statement on increasing age of women.” “This leader talks of Covid vaccine as BJP’s vaccine. I would advise him to take the same vaccine now. As for dikkat, killat, zillat charge, that happened during the days when Yadav’s government was in power,” he added. 
18-12-2021||India||Ministers who need to present papers must not skip session, says Naidu||Rajya Sabha chairman M Venkaiah Naidu on Friday expressed displeasure on ministers being absent from the House even though papers are listed against their names. Naidu said ministers who are supposed to lay the papers on the table of the House should attend parliamentary proceedings. In case they are not able to join the session, they must seek permission from the chair, he added. “The ministers who are supposed to lay papers on the table of the House having given notice to the Chair should not be absent from the House. In extreme circumstances -- there would be some occasions -- if there is any problem, they must approach the Chair in advance and seek permission,” the Rajya Sabha chairman said. Asking leader of the House Piyush Goyal and parliamentary affairs minister Pralhad Joshi to take note of the matter, Naidu said: “Some of them are doing it, while others think it is casual. It cannot be casual, it cannot be usual. I’ll not allow such things in the future. The leader of the House and the parliamentary affairs minister are here. I hope they take notice. I’m not objecting to others laying (the papers) on their behalf with prior notice and permission. This has to be kept in mind.” Minister of state for railways Raosaheb Dadarao Danve, minister of state for consumer affairs Sadhvi Niranjan Jyoti and minister of state for agriculture and farmers’ welfare Shobha Karandlaje were among those who skipped Friday’s proceedings. Minister of state for parliamentary affairs V Muraleedharan tabled the papers on behalf of the three ministers in the Upper House of the Parliament. When contacted, Karandlaje’s office said she is in Uttar Pradesh and they had informed the Rajya Sabha about it. Jyoti and Danve couldn’t be contacted for a comment. After Naidu’s statement, CPI(M) lawmaker John Brittas said “they (ministers) have no respect for the Parliament”, to which Naidu replied, “This applies to all the people who do not respect the Parliament and the Chair.” “Two ministers had taken prior permission and informed the Chairman at the last minute. The Chairman just said that ministers should take prior permission,” a minister said on condition of anonymity.Earlier this month, Prime Minister Narendra Modi had told party MPs to remain present during proceedings in Parliament.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/parliament-ministers-who-need-to-present-papers-must-not-skip-session-says-naidu-101639765922203.html
18-12-2021||India||Rahul Gandhi to hold 6km foot march in Amethi today||Congress workers have stepped up preparations for senior leader Rahul Gandhi’s visit to Amethi, where he will undertake a padayatra (foot march) that will also launch the party’s campaign for 2022 assembly elections in the state.Rahul will visit the constituency after a gap of nearly two years. Congress general secretary Priyanka Gandhi Vadra, who recently met party’s office-bearers and briefly visited certain areas in Amethi, will also take part in the rally, party leaders said.“Rahul Gandhi will lead a nearly 6-km long ‘padayatra from Ramlila ground to Harimau in Amethi on Saturday. The padayatra will focus on voting out the BJP in 2022 polls to bring down rising inflation. We are ready for the padayatra in Amethi for nearly two years. We are happy and enthusiastic about his visit with Priyanka Gandhi Vadra to this family of Amethi,” said Amethi district Congress committee president Pradeep Singhal.The Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) has criticised Rahul’s visit, saying the padayatra will not have any impact. Rahul, who represented Amethi in the Lok Sabha since 2004, lost the seat to Union minister Smriti Irani in the 2019 elections.“Rahul Gandhi’s ‘padyatra’ is only a visit to Amethi. This is not serious politically. Rahul Gandhi is now Wayanad MP. If he loved Amethi he would not have left the constituency. Rahul Gandhi has lost people’s faith by leaving the constituency. Union minister Smriti Irani is doing well for the people and working for development of Amethi. So Rahul Gandhi’s visit will not have any impact,” Uma Shankar Pandey, senior BJP leader from Amethi.“Rahul Gandhi’s visit to Amethi is certainly politically significant for the Congress. He had lost some ground in the 2019 Lok Sabha elections but still has a strong connection with the people of Amethi and Rae Bareli. Congress general secretary Priyanka Gandhi has brought the Congress back into focus, and people of the region have realized that the BJP did not keep its promises. So the visit should help the Congress in further strengthening its base in the area,” said Professor UB Singh, principal, Baiswara PG College, Lalganj, Rae Bareli.
18-12-2021||India||India image enhanced by lines of credit, says Jaishankar||India is very prudent about new free trade agreements (FTAs) because such pacts signed over the past 25 years affected domestic supply chains and had not provided adequate benefits to Indian businesses, external affairs minister S Jaishankar said on Friday. Economic diplomacy is a major part of the activities of Indian missions abroad, and 300 lines of credit with a total value of more than $30 billion extended to about 70 countries have enhanced India’s image and opened up new opportunities for domestic businesses, he said during a conversation at the annual convention of the Federation of Indian Chambers of Commerce and Industry (FICCI). “When it comes to new FTAs, we are very prudent...we need a lot of analysis of the person with whom you are getting into a relationship. It’s not like everybody is the same,” Jaishankar said, adding that he works closely with commerce minister Piyush Goyal and finance minister Nirmala Sitharaman on such issues. India’s priorities for FTAs reflect strategic convergences and domestic business comforts. “I would hope very much that in a few years from now, we will end up with a better set of FTAs,” he said. Jaishankar said India has had “a very tough experience” with FTAs over the past 25 years because it was largely dealing with “non-market actors”. He added, “As a result, we have seen in many cases our domestic supply chains very badly affected. In some sectors, they’ve completely hollowed out.” Some economies with which India finalised FTAs were very protective of their supply chains and MSMEs, and even competitive Indian products were not selling because of non-tariff barriers. “We’ve got to get real about this...I have some discomfort with the old mantras of globalisation,” he said. “If after 25 years of mounting evidence, if you’re not listening then we are in trouble,” he said. The government listens to the problems of domestic businesses and this led to the push for reviewing FTAs with many partners. Indian embassies have placed trade and business at the forefront, and regularly take up policy and regulatory issues with host governments and speak up for India’s economic interests abroad, Jaishankar said. The 300-odd lines of credit worth more than $30 billion were extended for some 600 projects in 70 countries, and they helped promote projects and Indian products. At the same time, India has provided 80 grants worth around $5 billion to some 12 countries. These are great platforms for Indian companies to promote their products and abilities and such partnerships create jobs and enhance the strength of the country, he said. India also couldn’t have ramped up the production of Covid-19 vaccines without economic diplomacy, which helped open supply chains for ingredients from the US, Jaishankar said. However, he pointed out that the post-pandemic world would be difficult and tougher, and India will need to “look at supply chains in a very different way”. Talking about the situation in Afghanistan, Jaishankar said it had been clear since the second term of US president Barack Obama that American forces would be withdrawn from the war-torn country. “At one level, it’s not a surprise but I would say a lot of the concerns came from how those negotiations (with the Taliban) took place in Doha and how it then unfolded on the ground,” he said. “As a proximate neighbour we are very concerned. After all there is some history there,” he said, adding the world community has reached a basic consensus on helping on humanitarian issues while calling for a more inclusive government and counter-terrorism measures. Jaishankar said the standoff with China on the Line of Actual Control was “largely because they are not following agreements” and acting like a party that has “violated a contract”. 
18-12-2021||India||UP polls: Amit Shah asks Nishad community to help BJP win 300-plus seats||Union home minister Amit Shah on Friday urged the Nishad community to help the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) win 300-plus seats in the elections to 403-member Uttar Pradesh assembly, while promising to fulfil all their “long-pending demands” if re-elected.Shah also hit out at the Samajwadi Party (SP) and the Bahujan Samaj Party (BSP), claiming their governments in Uttar Pradesh functioned only for a few castes while Prime Minister Narendra Modi has worked for the poor and all backward classes.“Did they work for the Nishad community or for any other caste under the OBCs? It was only Modiji, who worked for the poor,” the senior BJP leader said at the “Sarkar Banao, Adhikar Pao” rally, which the party held with its alliance partner, the Nishad Party at the Rambai Ambedkar grounds in Lucknow.Shah also spoke about the Ram temple being built in Ayodhya and the recently inaugurated Kashi Vishwanath Dham.The Nishads, currently listed among the Other Backward Castes (OBCs), have been demanding inclusion in the Scheduled Caste (SC) category. They account for around 4% of the state’s population and are believed to have some say in deciding the outcomes in around 50 constituencies. The BJP had an alliance with the Nishad Party in the 2019 Lok Sabha election.“Once we form the government again, the BJP will honour all long-pending demands,” Shah told the politically influential riverine community, calling them “Ram bhakt” Nishads.SP state spokesperson Rajendra Chaudhary hit back. “The BJP only cheated different communities. It backtracked on caste census. We are forming the next government and within three months of returning to power, the SP government will get caste census done...,” he added.
18-12-2021||India||Protests over MPs’ suspension: Opposition sees little hope of resolution||The winter session of Parliament has seen many disruptions arising from the suspension of 12 Rajya Sabha members for their alleged behaviour on the last day of the monsoon session. According to people familiar with the matter, with the government continuing to insist on an apology from them, opposition ranks not able to agree on the language of a statement describing the incidents of the last session, and negotiations between the parties and the Rajya Sabha chair going nowhere, there’s little chance left for resolution.There are four days left in the winter session of Parliament.On the afternoon of November 29, the first day of the session, the Rajya Sabha passed a resolution to suspend 12 Opposition MPs for their “unprecedented acts of misconduct, contemptuous, unruly, and violent behaviour and intentional attacks on security personnel”. The decision triggered protests and disruption became a regular feature of the Upper House barring two days, December 9 and 10, following the death of CDS Bipin Rawat and 11 other officers of Indian armed forces.While the impasse continued, and senior Opposition leaders such as Leader of the Opposition Mallikarjun Kharge, DMK’s Thiruchi Siva and RJD’s Manoj Jha made repeated appeals for the revocation of the suspension in the House, back-room negotiations began in the Opposition ranks and with the government.One initial response considered by the opposition parties was a boycott. “The initial plan of boycott found no support from DMK and CPI(M). Even Trinamool Congress emissaries told us that they won’t support boycott. Congress president Sonia Gandhi was appraised of the situation and she concluded that boycott would give the BJP a free hand,” said a senior Congress leader who asked not to be named.Then came an effort to find a solution. Congress chief whip in Rajya Sabha Jairam Ramesh met CPI(M) general secretary Sitaram Yechury on December 7 at the latter’s headquarters. The two leaders discussed a draft that included the term “unfortunate and regrettable incidents”.The draft was discussed with CPI’s Binoy Viswam and DMK’s Thiruchi Siva. It was planned that if approved, a senior leader would make a speech on behalf of all parties. But while all leaders maintained that they did not have a problem with the word “unfortunate” the term “regrettable incidents” left many uncomfortable. The result? The plan was junked “Jairam came with a piece of paper. But we found it unacceptable,” said Yechury.Seven days later, on December 14, Congress president Sonia Gandhi called a meeting with Nationalist Congress Party leader Sharad Pawar, DMK leader TR Balu, Yechury, National Conference leader Farooq Abdullah and Shiv Sena leader Sanjay Raut. Congress leader Rahul Gandhi, Kharge, and Congress general secretary (organisation) KC Venugopal were also present at the meeting.At the meeting it was decided that both Pawar and Kharge should meet Rajya Sabha chairman Venkaiah Naidu and urge him to call an all-party meeting. During the discussion, Yechury chipped in and added that Naidu should also be reminded how his predecessor Hamid Ansari used to call all party leaders to resolve logjams. According to a second Opposition leader, Pawar called Naidu the following morning. Naidu told Pawar that he was most welcome but that he could not assure him of reaching a resolution, said a senior Rajya Sabha official who asked not to be named.Hours later, instead of Pawar, a group of four senior leaders led by Kharge met Naidu . As the Opposition leaders appealed to Naidu to take inspiration from his predecessors, the chairman reminded them that there had been “no indication yet of any regret from the suspended MPs”.The meeting ended abruptly.On Friday morning, Naidu called a senior Congress leader and asked him to try to find a solution to the impasse.Hours later, Kharge, Jairam and parliamentary affairs minister Pralhad Joshi met at Naidu’s chamber but the minister again insisted on “some sort of an apology” from the 12 MPs, according to two parliamentary functionaries. As the meeting ended without any solution, Ramesh , according to a functionary , told Naidu: “You can hold an all-party meeting at your grand daughter’s wedding reception on Monday where all party leaders would be present.” Everyone laughed.
18-12-2021||India||Delhi HC orders reinstatement of Air India pilots||The Delhi high court on Friday ordered the reinstatement and payment of back wages to 32 pilots of Air India, and payment of back wages to another six, noting that the State cannot cast off its social responsibility when finding jobs in the private sector is a difficult proportion during the pandemic.A bench of justices Rajiv Shakdher and Talwant Singh held that the “State and its instrumentalities are expected to look at myriad aspects and not just profits”, as it dismissed Air India’s appeal against the single judge’s order directing the reinstatement of several permanent and contractual pilots, whose services were terminated last year on account of commercial slowdown in wake of the lockdown.“The State and its instrumentalities are obliged to act as a model employer, and, therefore, cannot be seen to deprive the pilots of, the right to serve the organisation [Air India Limited], at a point in time when finding jobs in the private sector is a difficult proposition…,” the court said.The bench also ruled that six pilots, who had accepted other offers during the pendency of the appeals, would be entitled to back wages between the date when their resignations were accepted and the date when they found alternate employment, and would not be reinstated.
18-12-2021||India||HT THIS DAY: Dec 19, 1961 - Astronauts back after record space flight||APHuston- Blackened by the fire of re-entry, the Gemini-7 space ship parachuted in the Atlantic Ocean today (December 18), bringing astronauts Frank Borman and James Lovell home safely from man's greatest adventure in space.Weary and heavily bearded after an historic space journey that, took them 206 times around the earth, the astronauts brought the space craft to a splashdown at 7-35 p.m. GST) 11 to 17 miles from the prime recovery vessel, the aircraft carrier, Wasp.The meteoric dive back to earth ended the most significant space voyage ever flown by man.Borman and Lovell have travelled far longer than any other spaceman,-330 hours, 35 minutes, -and had given the United States a lead over Russia in many other phases of the race between the nations to be first on the moon.The exhausted spacemen asked for a helicopter pickup, electing not to wait for the arrival of the Wasp. They climbed through the hatches into the rafts and gave the pilots of the rescue planes overhead thumbs-up signals, telling them everything was all right.Honest dirtA horse-collar was lowered from a helicopter and each astronaut was hauled up and flown to the Wasp, where excited sailors lined the rails waiting for a glimpse of them. They were deposited on the deck of the carrier at 8.07 p.m. (IST), 32 minutes after splashdown.A bit wobbly, but sporting huge grins Borman and Lovell walked to the strains of "Anchors Vaweigh" and to the wild cheers of the Wasp's men, to the sick bay for their first check-up."Wait until we sleep," Borman said as he was led to the sick bay. But the plea fell on deaf ears of the doctor waiting to check on the effects of their long stay in the environment of space.Their second choice was for hot showers."We're awful dirty," Borman said, "but it's good, honest dirt.Mr Ben James, NASA (National Aeronautics and Space Administration) Public Affairs Officer, said the doctors felt the astronauts came through mentally alert and in excellent physical shape.Sixty miles high over Texas, during the hottest part of the fiery re-entry, the spaceship was enveloped by an electrified curtain and entered a four-minute backout period.When they came through it, Borman reported he was flying a true course towards the recovery task force of five ships and 21 aircraft.A navy plane sighted the spacecraft bobbing under its giant parachute, tracked it down to the water, and got first word that the flight had been climaxed with a landing at precisely the planned moment.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/ht-this-day-dec-19-1961-astronauts-back-after-record-space-flight-101639765320635.html
18-12-2021||India||Several states failed to utilise funds for air pollution control: Data||Several states failed to utilise the funds provided by the Centre under the national clean air programme (NCAP) to control air pollution in their respective states, according to data released by environment ministry during the first meeting of the NCAP’s National Apex Committee on Friday.A total of ₹375.44 crore was provided under NCAP to 114 cities from 2018-19 to 2020-21, and ₹290 crores was allocated to 82 cities for 2021-22. The Centre will be providing a further ₹700 crores for the 2021-26 period.But utilisation of the ₹375.44 crores given in the past two years has been low by most states, according to the data, with 22 states under NCAP collectively utilising only 33.53% of the amount.Bihar and Chandigarh utilised 77% and 82% respectively of the fund, but Punjab and Uttar Pradesh utilised only 17%, Chhattisgarh 21%, Andhra Pradesh 10%, Assam 4%, Himachal Pradesh 2%, and Jammu & Kashmir 1%. The utilisation by Uttarakhand and West Bengal was 53% and 58% respectively.“These states have about three months to utilise the funds until the next financial year starts. We have decided that allocation of funds will be performance and city specific from now on. Funds from states that fail to utilise the funds allocated to them will be provided to cities that are doing well in air pollution control,” said a senior environment ministry official after the meeting.NCAP does not have a legal mandate but aims to achieve a 20% to 30% reduction in PM 2.5 (respirable pollution particles) concentrations over 2017 levels in over 100 cities by 2024. The ministry in a statement said that the number of cities showing improvement in air quality increased from 86 in 2019 to 96 in 2020.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/several-states-failed-to-utilise-funds-for-air-pollution-control-data-101639765262628.html
18-12-2021||India||Covid ex gratia compensation: Supreme Court gives states a week to clear claims||The Supreme Court on Friday gave a one-week deadline for states and Union territories to clear the backlog of claims for ex gratia compensation for Covid deaths.The court, while monitoring the implementation of its orders passed on June 30 and October 4 directing that ₹50,000 be paid as compensation for Covid deaths, noticed that some states were slack in implementing its directions. In the cases of Delhi, Chhattisgarh and Karnataka, the information was not available since no notice was issued to them asking for it, and the court remedied that on Friday. A bench of justices MR Shah and BV Nagarathna said, “We issue notice to the chief secretaries of Karnataka, NCT of Delhi, and Chhattisgarh, directing them to file status reports on deaths registered, applications/claims received and claims sanctioned or paid.”Going through a chart prepared by additional solicitor general (ASG) Aishwarya Bhati, the court found that in Maharashtra, Andhra Pradesh, Kerala, West Bengal, Punjab, and Tamil Nadu, a huge gap existed between the total deaths, the claims received, and the actual payments released. From some states, including Rajasthan, no information was given on the total claims received.This chart also indicated that in Delhi, out of 26,128 claims, payment was already disbursed in 21,179 cases. The corresponding figures for Karnataka were 7,277 claims settled against 38,220 deaths, and for Chhattisgarh 11,329 claims settled out of 17,567 applications received.In Maharashtra, out of 141,025 Covid deaths – the highest reported by any state -- only about 8,000 claims were processed out of the 109,000 applications received.“Despite strong observations made earlier, only in 8,000 cases, payments have been made,” the bench said about Maharashtra. Directing the state to process the remaining claims within a week, the bench observed, “We don’t understand the problem that always we have to fire at you. Tell your officers, this can’t become a daily affair.”Kerala, with an official tally of 40,855 Covid deaths, managed to release payments to only 548 people out of the 10,778 applications received so far. The state was directed to process the remaining claims within a week, and give wide publicity through newspaper advertisements issued in local and vernacular newspapers on same model as issued by Gujarat government.Gujarat reported total Covid deaths of 10,094. It has till date received 40,467 claims for compensation, almost four times the reported figure of deaths. Of these claims, payment has been made against 26,836 claims.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/covid-ex-gratia-compensation-supreme-court-gives-states-a-week-to-clear-claims-101639765260784.html
18-12-2021||India||Govt: Vaccinating all to get priority over booster dose||The Union government said on Friday that vaccinating the adult population with both doses of the Covid vaccine will be its first priority --- ahead of booster doses.India has thus far (till Friday night), completely vaccinated 57.6% of its adult population of 940 million and partly vaccinated an additional 30.1%. These are levels at which vaccine hesitancy kick in, and given that, as well as growing scientific evidence that booster doses of vaccines may be required to prevent infections by the highly transmissible micron strain of the SARS-CoV2 virus.Responding to a query on why India has not started booster shots like many countries have, VK Paul, member (health), Niti Aayog, said: “These measures are driven by science, local epidemiology and by resources. This time around vaccine resources are in good condition. What we are doing concurrently is engaging with our scientific community to look at these issues on an ongoing basis. Have faith. Have faith that when there is no resource constraint, epidemiology and scientific discourse will decide this. And we have very competent teams that are examining this.”His reference to resources is about the availability of vaccine doses; the start of India’s vaccine drive was patchy on account of supply constraints, but for months now, the country has powered ahead, administering, on average, more shots a day than any country barring China.However, the scientific discourse now is definitely veering towards vaccines. Last week, a study in the UK found that two shots of the AstraZeneca/Oxford vaccine offers virtually no protection against an Omicron infection, while a third dose increases the protection to 71%.This is significant because the Indian version of this vaccine, Covishield, has been the mainstay of India’s vaccine programme.Some experts believe India should have started booster doses by now, at least for vulnerable populations and healthcare workers. “Research in Israel, Canada and US has shown immunity is 20% to 50% after six months of vaccination. So, there is no question that boosters are important. The elderly, those with comorbidities and frontline workers should be prioritised,” said Dr GC Khilnani, former head of the department of pulmonology at AIIMS and chairman of PSRI Institute of Pulmonary and Critical Care.Paul pressed ahead in the same vein and insisted that boosters can be considered “after we have provided primary vaccination coverage to the maximum population”.But while this a laudable goal on paper, experts say that close to 88% coverage (at least one dose), India has likely hit the ceiling. And that with countries such as the UK , US, Denmark, and Norway seeing surges caused mostly by Omicron, it is time India started administering booster doses.During the briefing, Joint Secretary of Health Ministry, Lav Agarwal said India has 86, 415 total active cases; 7329 daily new cases on average; and a case positivity rate of 0.65%. Two states have very high number of active cases—Maharashtra with 10,372 cases and Kerala with 34,386 cases. Around 31 states and UTs have less than 5000 active cases. The daily numbers, the lowest in 18 months, have been achieved on the back of a successful vaccine campaign that has, till Friday night, seen the administration of a total of 1.36 billion doses.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/vaccinating-all-to-get-priority-over-booster-dose-says-centre-101639765201740.html
18-12-2021||India||Row over Karnataka Congress MLA Ramesh Kumar’s rape remark escalates||he political row over former Karnataka assembly speaker KR Ramesh Kumar’s comment on rape on the floor of the state assembly escalated on Friday even as the Congress MLA apologised for his “off the cuff” remark.While the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) alleged that Congress leaders have a history of making such insulting comments about women, several Congress leaders also criticised Kumar for his statement.As proceedings in the Karnataka assembly resumed for the day, Kumar apologised for saying “when rape is inevitable, enjoy and lie down”. “If the statements I made in the House, if any sections of the society, including women especially, if they are hurt, I have no embarrassment to express my regret,” the Congress leader said.Kumar had also apologised late on Thursday, hours after his remark created a furore.Accepting the MLA’s apology, Karnataka speaker Vishweshwar Hegde Kageri appealed to the members, especially women MLAs, not to drag the matter further. Kageri also prevented Karnataka minister for Muzarai, Haj & Wakf, Shashikala Jolle, from speaking on the issue.“Don’t escalate this. He has expressed regret,” the Speaker said, adding, “It has ended here. So please, nobody (should) try to escalate it anywhere...”Meanwhile, several BJP leaders targeted the Congress party over Kumar’s remark. Union women and child development minister Smriti Irani demanded that the political party concerned should first bring the person to justice.“If you truly believe in the cause of women, first stand here and denounce that legislator who said that if you are raped, as a woman in the country you should enjoy it.,” the minister said during Question Hour in the Lok Sabha during the ongoing session of Parliament.The Congress MLA also came under criticism from his own party leaders.“I wholeheartedly condemn the statement made earlier today by Sri. K.R.Ramesh Kumar. It is inexplicable how anyone can ever utter such words, they are indefensible. Rape is a heinous crime. Full stop,” party general secretary Priyanka Gandhi Vadra tweeted tweeted.Karnataka Congress president DK Shivakumar said “men in politics need to do better”. “The incident is a sign that all of us men in politics need to do better to shed our inherent regressive attitudes towards women,” he said.National Commission for Women chairperson Rekha Sharma also hit out at Kumar, saying: “It’s really disgusting. If they sit in assemblies and speak like this how they must be behaving with women in their lives?”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/row-over-karnataka-congress-mla-ramesh-kumar-s-rape-remark-escalates-101639765081708.html
18-12-2021||India||Ready to meet any requirement for Rafale jets, says French defence minister||France stands ready to meet any requirement for more Rafale combat jets from India even as it works to bolster the Make in India initiative by integrating Indian manufacturers into global supply chains, French defence minister Florence Parly said on Friday.Parly noted China’s behaviour in the region is becoming “more and more aggressive”, and France seeks to find a “delicate balance” between addressing such behaviour and cooperating with China on issues such as climate change and trade.She made the remarks during a virtual conversation organised by Ananta Centre on India-France cooperation to defend a rules-based Indo-Pacific, before her meeting with defence minister Rajnath Singh. Defence industrial cooperation, including future collaborations and co-production, also figured in the discussions between the two ministers.“I am very happy that the Indian Air Force (IAF) is satisfied with its Rafales, and we are very proud that despite Covid the 36 aircraft will be delivered on time according to the contract. It’s a real achievement,” Parly said, responding to whether France would provide more Rafale combat aircraft to India.She described the use of Rafale jets by the air forces of both countries as a “real asset and strength” for bilateral cooperation, and said: “I am sure that there is room for new developments. We are ready to answer any additional needs [or] request that could be made by India.”Parly, who is on an official visit to India to enhance strategic and defence ties, further noted that more aircraft will be needed for India’s new aircraft carrier. “We are open and ready to provide any other Rafales if this is India’s decision,” she said.India and France inked a ₹59,000-crore deal for 36 Rafale jets in 2016. All the aircraft are being manufactured in France to Indian specifications. Parly attended the event marking the induction of the first batch of Rafales into IAF in July 2020. France has so far delivered 33 of the jets.India’s indigenously built aircraft carrier INS Vikrant is expected to become fully operational in 2022.Parly also outlined France’s commitment to backing the Make in India initiative, especially for defence hardware. “France, more than any other country, understands the necessity of the Indian content and we are fully committed to the Make in India initiative as well as to the further integration of Indian manufacturers into our global supply chains,” she said.Make in India, she said, has been a “reality for French industry” for several years, particularly for defence equipment such as submarines.Parly responded to another question on the potential impact on India-France relations of the AUKUS alliance between Australia, the UK and the US by asserting that France “is an Indo-Pacific country” since it has 1.6 million citizens in the region.“So, we are an Indian-Indo-Pacific country and we want to develop a very close multilateral relationship with the neighbouring countries. Of course, India is at the centre of this strategy...,” Parly said.The situation in Afghanistan, India’s concerns about cross-border terrorism from Pakistan, the standoff with China on the Line of Actual Control, joint exercises, maritime security and new projects figured in the third annual defence dialogue between Parly and Singh, officials familiar with the discussions said. There was a focus on aerospace cooperation, and the Indian side noted French companies can collaborate with India firms or produce in the country under the Make in India initiative. Both sides shared their concerns on the situation in Afghanistan, the officials said.The two ministers reviewed military-to-military cooperation and discussed ways to increase defence cooperation in all domains, the defence ministry said. “Defence industrial cooperation was discussed with focus on future collaborations and co-production between the two countries,” it added.
18-12-2021||India||Capt Amarinder Singh seals alliance with BJP ahead of 2022 Punjab polls||The Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) and the Capt Amarinder Singh-led Punjab Lok Congress announced a pre-poll tie-up on Friday, saying that talks on seat-sharing were on.Amarinder called on the BJP’s Punjab incharge, Union minister Gajendra Shekhawat, at his Delhi residence after an earlier meeting in Punjab.The former Punjab chief minister addressed the media along with Shekhawat to announce the alliance ahead of assembly elections due in a few months.“After seven rounds of talks, today I confirm that the BJP and Amarinder will contest the assembly elections in Punjab together. Topics like seat shares will be discussed later,” Shekhawat told the media.Shekhawat said the details of seat-sharing will be announced at an “appropriate time”.“The alliance will definitely, 101 per cent win the elections. And winnability will be the main criterion in finalising seats,” Amarinder said.This is the second meeting between the Punjab BJP’s election incharge and Amarinder for discussions related to the alliance in Punjab. Earlier, Shekhawat had visited Amarinder’s farm house near Chandigarh.The party is also holding talks simulatenously with Rajya Sabha member Sukhdev Singh Dhindsa’s Akali Dal (Sanyukt) and a meeting is expected in the coming days.According to senior BJP leaders privy to the discussions about the alliance, the party will be the bigger partner in the seat-sharing arrangement and could contest at least 60 seats.“The party is adamant on contesting seats dominated by Hindus and the Scheduled Caste population. The party wants to keep more focus on the Majha and Doaba regions,” a senior party functionary said.The functionary said both Amarinder and the BJP are likely to give final shape to the alliance by the end of the month.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/captain-amarinder-seals-alliance-with-bjp-ahead-of-2022-punjab-assembly-polls-101639764060504.html
18-12-2021||India||No room for fake encounters in a civilised society: NHRC chairperson in Assam||There should be no room for fake encounters or extrajudicial killings by police and security forces, Justice Arun Mishra, the chairperson of the National Human Rights Commission (NHRC), said on Friday.“There is no room for fake encounters in a civilised society... They are barbaric. There is no room for instant justice in this country and law has to take its own course. A person who is guilty has to be tried in court and punished in accordance with law,” he said, while talking to reporters here.Justice Mishra made the remarks when asked about fake encounters allegedly carried out by police in Assam during the past few months.Since the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP)-led government took charge in Assam in May this year, the state has witnessed 28 deaths of jail inmates in police action while allegedly trying to flee custody.Following several instances of alleged fake encounters in the state, a Delhi-based lawyer had lodged a complaint with the NHRC in July, after which the commission issued a notice to the Assam government. The case is still pending.Also Read: Assam resident shot twice by NSCN-IM near Manipur border, hospitalised: PoliceIf an encounter flagged in the complaint is found to be fake, the NHRC can recommend payment of compensation, direct registration of a criminal case against those involved, and recommend disciplinary action against those found guilty.“We can’t allege that all encounters are fake. One has to be specific about particular cases. There may be certain cases where the encounters are genuine and some where some excesses have been committed. If we find that certain allegation is correct, we are directing compensation to be paid,” Justice Mishra, a former Supreme Court judge, said.On the killings of 14 villagers in Nagaland earlier this month during an army operation that went wrong, Mishra said that in the absence of a human rights body in the state, “one can always approach the NHRC”. He added the NHRC has already taken suo motu cognisance of the case based on news reports.“We have called for the report of the Special Investigation Team (SIT) constituted by the state government as well as inputs from the home ministry to clarify their stand on the incident. We would not like to comment on the merits of the case now as it is subjudice,” he said.The Nagaland killings on December 4-5 sparked a fresh demand for the repeal of the Armed Forces (Special Powers) Act, also known as the AFSPA, which grants special powers to armed forces to maintain law and order in “disturbed areas”.“We can’t discuss the constitutionality of any Act. But for Acts such as the AFSPA, the government has to review whether it should be applied, and in which district, at what particular time. If the situation in a particular district improves, it (AFSPA) should be reviewed,” Justice Mishra said.“We can’t generalise that there is gross violation of human rights due to the AFSPA. If any particular case comes, we will look into each such case, whether it is a custodial death or an encounter death,” he added.Justice Mishra and other members of the NHRC camped in Guwahati for two days, hearing 40 cases from Assam, Arunachal Pradesh, Nagaland and Manipur. Following the hearing of the cases, the commission has recommended ₹20.5 lakh as relief for various human rights violations.The NHRC has been hearing complaints through camps across the country due to disruptions in the normal process for nearly 19 months because of Covid-19 pandemic-related restrictions.
18-12-2021||India||Group Captain Varun Singh cremated with full state, military honours||The last rites of Group Captain Varun Singh, who was the pilot of the chopper that crashed in Tamil Nadu on December 8, were performed with full state and military honours in Bhopal on Friday.The Group Captain, who was battling for life since December 8 and was on life support, succumbed to his injuries in a hospital in Bengaluru on Wednesday afternoon, a week after the Mi-17V5 helicopter crash near Tamil Nadu’s Coonoor, in which India’s first chief of defence staff (CDS) General Bipin Rawat, his wife Madhulika Rawat and 11 armed forces personnel were killed.The mortal remains of the Group Captain wrapped in a tricolour were brought to Bairagarh crematorium from the Military Hospital in a decorated Army truck. A ceremonial guard of honour was given by defence forces personnel, after which the senior services officers paid their tributes by laying floral wreaths on the coffin of the Group Captain.Singh’s younger brother, Tanuj Singh, a lieutenant commander in the Indian Navy, and his son, Radduman Singh, performed the last rites amid the slogans of ‘Group Captain Varun Singh amar rahe’ raised by the people.Singh’s wife Geetanajali Singh, daughter Aradhya Singh, his father Colonel KP Singh (retd), mother Uma besides, other close relatives were also present to bid a teary-eyed farewell to him.Singh’s mother, Uma Singh said, “I am proud of my son, my daughter-in-law is a brave woman.”Group Captain Singh was conferred with the Shaurya Chakra, the country’s third highest peacetime gallantry award, in August this year for displaying exemplary composure and skill when his Tejas aircraft developed a technical snag during the sortie.The 39-year-old officer is survived by an 11-year-old son, an eight-year-old daughter and his wife. Singh’s family originally hails from Ghazipur in Uttar Pradesh, but his parents had settled in Bhopal.Madhya Pradesh chief minister Shivraj Singh Chouhan, leaders from both the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) and the Congress also paid their tributes to the Group Captain.Chouhan on Thursday had said that in order to keep the Group Captain’s memories alive, an institution or a building will be named after him by the state government in consultation with his family.“An ex gratia of ₹1 crore will be provided to his family. Besides, a government job will be provided to a family member,” Chouhan had said.Group Captain Singh graduated from the National Defence Academy (NDA) in 2003. He was commissioned as a fighter pilot in 2004 and mainly flew Jaguars and Tejas during his flying career.He was posted to Defence Services Staff College as an instructor when he passed away||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/late-group-captain-varun-singh-cremated-in-bhopal-with-state-military-honours-101639735794956.html
