19-12-2021||India||Nagaland assembly to convene emergent session on December 20||The Nagaland Governor has summoned the 10th session (emergent) of the 13th Nagaland Legislative Assembly (NLA) on December 20. The emergent session was convened against the backdrop of massive public outcry demanding the removal of the controversial Armed Forces (Special Powers) Act 1958 (AFSPA) from Nagaland following the killing of 13 civilians in Oting village of Mon district on December 4. The killing of another youth on December 5 in Mon town by security forces also led to mass protests against the controversial act. The session is expected to see the adoption of a state government resolution for the repeal of the contentious Act which grants certain powers to armed forces to “maintain” law and order in “disturbed areas”.Nagaland Chief Minister Neiphiu Rio and his lawmaker colleagues have also been vocal about the need for the repeal of AFSPA, calling it a “draconian” Act and that it does not have a place in the world’s largest democracy. The Nagaland cabinet had also announced its decision on December 7 to strongly recommend to the Centre to repeal the Act.Various tribal, women, youth and students’ bodies across Nagaland have been holding peaceful public rallies to protest against the Act and demanding its withdrawal.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/nagaland-assembly-to-convene-emergent-session-on-december-20-101639938383813.html
19-12-2021||India||No response from Centre on Judicial Infrastructure Corp, aid to lawyers so far: CJI Ramana||The Centre is yet to respond to some of the issues such as setting up Judicial Infrastructure Corporation and financial help to lawyers who lost livelihood due to COVID-19, Chief Justice of India NV Ramana said on Sunday here.Inaugurating the court complex, Justice Ramana said though the proposals for setting up a Judicial Infrastructure Corporation and mobile internet facilities in rural areas were sent in July and June, the proposals have not been translated into action.He however, said he was hopeful that the Centre would bring in a legislation in the ongoing winter session of Parliament for creating the Judicial Infrastructure Corporation.“I asked the Centre to financially help families of lawyers who lost their livelihood due to Covid. There is no proper response from the government so far. With regards to creation of Infrastructure there is no response either. I raise these issues whenever I get a chance at various forums when the Prime Minister and President are present,” Justice Ramana vented his dissatisfaction.In a written reply to a question in the Lok Sabha, Law Minister Kiren Rijiju recently said a proposal has been received from the Chief Justice of India (CJI) for setting up a National Judicial Infrastructure Authority of India for arrangement of adequate infrastructure for courts.“The three main issues in the country are lack of basic infrastructure, to increase the number of judges and financial help to deserving lawyers. Only when we overcome these problems can we reach out to people. There would be a meaning to “access to justice,” he said.For piling up pending cases, not only the shortage of judges is the reason, but also necessary infrastructure. Without providing necessary infrastructure expecting judges and lawyers sitting in dilapidated court buildings to deliver justice is not fair. Governments, especially the centre should note this, he further said.Justice Ramana said he wrote a letter to the centre and the Law minister seeking setting up mobile network on vans to facilitate lawyers in the rural areas to attend court duties virtually. According to him, though lawyers who can afford and in cities and towns will be able to attend court through video conferencing, advocates in rural areas and who cannot afford the network would eventually lose their profession.“If necessary, the government can rope in big corporate to set up network stations under corporate social responsibility funds so that they can attend court duties virtually. The suggestion so far has not translated into action. I am waiting for the government to do something about it,” the CJI said. He said many states in the country are shying away from allocating funds to build court complexes. He however appreciated the Telangana government for sanctioning funds to build a complex here without waiting for the central government amounts to come.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/no-response-from-centre-on-judicial-infrastructure-corp-aid-to-lawyers-so-far-cji-ramana-101639938023756.html
19-12-2021||India||‘Akhilesh ko aaram do, Yogi ji ko kaam do’: Nadda's fresh attack on SP chief||Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) national president JP Nadda on Sunday took a fresh jibe at Samajwadi Party (SP) chief Akhilesh Yadav while showering heaps of praises on Uttar Pradesh chief minister Yogi Adityanath.Speaking at the ‘Jan Vishwas Yatra’ in Ambedkar Nagar of the poll-bound state, Nadda asked people to “give rest” to Yadav and instead “give work to Yogi ji."“Akhilesh Yadav took cases back against 15 terrorists. Later, when the case reopened, four of the 15 terrorists were hanged to death and the rest got life imprisonment… Inko aaram do, Yogi ji ko kaam do,” the BJP chief was quoted as saying by news agency ANI.Also Read | After BJP came in UP, not Hindus only gangsters, criminals left state: CMNadda was apparently referring to the 2006 Varanasi bombings case when Yadav was the chief minister of Uttar Pradesh. The SP chief took back cases against terrorists involved in the serial blasts at Varanasi's Sankat Mochan Temple and Cantt railway station.As many as 14 cases lodged in seven districts of the northern state were withdrawn, with the then SP government claiming that innocent Muslim men were booked under terror charges. The act invited criticism from the Allahabad high court as well.Akhilesh Yadav and the BJP have been exchanging heated comments lately as assembly polls in the northern state draw closer. This received fresh steam on Saturday when the income tax (IT) department conducted raids at the residences of Yadav's aide Jainendra Yadav and SP spokesperson Rajiv Rai, among others.Following this, the SP chief said the BJP is misusing central agencies to intimidate just like what the Congress party did in the past. “Turn back the pages and you will see that whenever the Congress had to intimidate anyone, they would misuse the central agencies,” he added.Notably, in the last assembly elections in Uttar Pradesh in 2017, the BJP won 312 of the total 403 seats, while the SP bagged 47 and the Bahujan Samaj Party (BSP) 19. Congress was able to win only seven seats, while the remaining seats were bagged by other candidates.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/akhilesh-ko-aaram-do-yogi-ji-ko-kaam-do-nadda-s-fresh-attack-on-sp-chief-101639931284859.html
19-12-2021||India||PM Modi pays tribute to Goa’s freedom fighters on Liberation Jubilee||Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Sunday paid tribute to the freedom fighters of Goa both from within Goa and outside, due to whose sacrifices; he said Goa never forgot its Indian origin and India never forgot Goa. During a day-long visit to the coastal state which is celebrating its 60th year since liberation, the Prime Minister said, “People from all corners of India came together and joined hands. Goa had been conquered by the Portuguese at a time when in another part of the country, the Mughals had an empire. Since then, the country has seen so many political storms. How many times has power changed hands, but despite the passage of time and changes in power, Goa did not forget its Indianness nor did India forget its Goa,” he said. “From the Cuncolim rebellion to the Maratha conflict led by Chhatrapati Shivaji Maharaj and Sambhaji there were efforts to free Goa. The Pinto revolt was led by the native Christians. This is the identity of India. It is service to humanity. The efforts were made from so many corners. The country became independent before Goa. Most people of India had got their rights. Now they had the time to live their own dream, yet so many freedom fighters gave up on all this and continued to struggle and sacrifice themselves for Goa’s freedom,” he said. “This is because India is not just about political power; India is that thought, a family which protects human rights. 21 freedom fighters had to give up their lives like Veer Karnail Singh Benipal from Punjab. They were restless because a part of India was still under foreign rule. Some countrymen still had not obtained freedom,” he added. “Names likes Luis de Menezes Bragança, Tristão Bragança da Cunha, Julião Menezes, Purushottam Kakodkar, Laxmikant Bhembre, Bala Raya Mapari, so many of our freedom fighters carried out an agitation after Independence, they suffered, offered sacrifice, but did not let the movement stop,” he added. Earlier in the day, the Prime Minister paid tribute to those who laid down their lives for the Liberation Movement at the martyr’s memorial in the state capital as well as felicitated freedom fighters and veterans of ‘Operation Vijay’ at the function.Goa was freed through armed action by the Indian Army on December 19, 1961 in an operation codenamed Operation Vijay after all diplomatic efforts between India and Portugal to get the former imperial power to relinquish control of Goa failed. “If Sardar Vallabhbhai Patel had lived for some years more, then Goa would not have had to wait for so long for its freedom,” the PM said. “Goa needs to make a new resolution. You should ask yourselves where you want Goa to be by the time it celebrates 75 years of Liberation. Make new resolutions. It needs continuity. It should stay the same in the future. We should not stop, the Prime Minister said. The Prime Minister also witnessed a parade of sails by boats of the Indian Navy, Coast Guard and civil agencies; and a flypast by aircraft of the Indian Navy, from the Miramar beach. During his visit, the Prime Minister also inaugurated projects worth ₹650 crore including a super speciality block of the Goa Medical College and Hospital, a restoration of a historical fort among other projects.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/pm-modi-pays-tribute-to-goa-s-freedom-fighters-on-liberation-jubilee-101639936944363.html
19-12-2021||India||Bommai says no post or position is permanent, triggers speculation of early exit||Karnataka chief minister Basavaraj Bommai on Sunday triggered speculation of an early exit from the top post after he delivered an emotional address in his home district of Haveri, stating that no post is permanent.“Nothing is permanent in this world. This life is also not forever. In such a situation, these posts and positions are also not permanent is something we should always be aware of all the time,” Bommai said in Shiggaon, his home constituency in Haveri district, about 366 km from Bengaluru on Sunday.The statements come at a time when speculation is rife of a possible change in leadership in Karnataka barely five months since Bommai replaced BS Yediyurappa, who was forced to step down as CM in July.According to multiple people aware of the developments, there are chances that Bommai is likely to be replaced early next year, though there is no official confirmation on the same as it would further dent the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) and its chances in the upcoming polls, including Zilla and Taluka Panchayat, Bruhat Bengaluru Mahanagara Palike (BBMP, the city’s civic body) and the 2023 assembly polls.Bommai has been under extreme pressure after a poor show in the October 30 bypolls in which the BJP lost Hanagal, the chief minister’s neighbouring constituency in his home district of Haveri.The Bommai government was also unable to bag a majority in the December 10 polls for 25 seats in the upper house of the state legislature in which it shared an equal number of seats with the Congress who also managed to win 11 with the Janata Dal (Secular) or JD(S) getting just two.The Bommai government is also under pressure after multiple charges of corruption levelled against them, including the Bitcoin scandal in which senior BJP leaders and officials are believed to have laundered large sums of ill-gotten money using crypto currencies. A section of the public work contractors have also alleged that they are forced to cough up almost 35-40% commission for getting any projects, highlighting the growing corruption under the Bommai government.If rumour mills are to be believed, then Bommai is expected to go abroad to get a knee-related surgery and a change is expected to happen around this time. However, there is no official confirmation on the same.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/bommai-says-no-post-or-position-is-permanent-triggers-speculation-of-early-exit-101639934303538.html
19-12-2021||India||'No post is permanent': Karnataka CM Basavaraj Bommai triggers his exit rumours||Karnataka Chief Minister Basavaraj Bommai in an emotional address to the people of his constituency Shiggaon in this district said nothing is permanent in this world including posts and positions, fuelling speculation in some quarters about his possible exit. "Nothing is eternal in this world. This life itself is not forever. We don't know how long we will be here in such a situation, these posts and positions are also not forever. I am aware of this fact every moment," he said. In an expression of gratitude to the people of his constituency, Bommai said he is only 'Basavaraj' for them and not the Chief Minister. The CM was addressing people after inaugurating the statue of Kittur Rani Chennamma, the 19th Century queen of Kittur in Belagavi district, who fought against the British. "I have always been saying that outside this place (Shiggaon) I was Home Minister and Irrigation Minister in the past, but once I was in, I remained just 'Basavaraj' for you all. Today as a Chief Minister I am saying that once I come to Shiggaon, I may be Chief Minister outside but amongst you, I will remain as the same Basavaraj Bommai because the name Basavaraj is permanent and not the posts", he said. There have been rumours in some quarters that Bommai is likely to be replaced. The CM is reportedly suffering from a knee-related problem and may undergo treatment abroad but there was no official word on this. The Chief Minister who turned emotional twice recalled how affectionately he was fed 'Rotti' (Jowar Roti) and 'Navane' (foxtail millet) rice every time he came to his constituency as Basavaraj. "I don't have great things to say. If I could live up to your expectations, that's enough for me. I believe that no power is bigger than your love and trust. I try my best not to talk to you in an emotional way but sentiments overwhelm me after seeing you all," Bommai said in a choking manner. Noting that there was a huge responsibility on his shoulders to plan a comprehensive development of the state and to respond to the demands and requests of every community. The Chief Minister said, "he always kept his conscience awake every moment and in his every deed". Bommai took over as Chief Minister on July 28 after B S Yediyurappa resigned on the day he completed two years in office.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/no-post-is-permanent-karnataka-cm-basavaraj-bommai-triggers-his-exit-rumours-101639932406361.html
19-12-2021||India||Unfortunate and unfair, says Kharge after Centre calls 4 parties for meeting||The NDA government has invited four Opposition parties—whose MPs are among the 12 suspended lawmakers—for talks on Monday but a section of the Opposition is skeptical about the outreach and wants an all-party meeting instead. Leader of the Opposition Mallikarjun Kharge wrote a letter to parliamentary affairs minister Pralhad Joshi later in the evening and termed the decision to invite just four parties as “unfair and unfortunate”. The proposed meeting will be held on Monday at 10 am at Rajya Sabha leader Piyush Goyal’s office. But the Opposition parties are meeting at 9.45 am to take a final call on attending the meeting. In the letter to Joshi, Kharge said, “All Opposition parties are united in the protest against the suspension of the 12 MPs. We have been requesting from the evening of November 29 itself that either the Chairman of the Rajya Sabha or the Leader of the House Shri Piyush Goyal should call leaders of all Opposition parties for a discussion to break the stalemate.” “This reasonable request of ours has not been agreed to, further inviting only leaders of four Opposition parties instead of inviting leaders of all Opposition parties is unfair and unfortunate.” The Congress, Trinamool, Shiv Sena and CPIM have been invited for the meeting. On November 29, six Congress MPs, two lawmakers each from Trinamool Congress and Shiv Sena and one each of CPIM and CPI were suspended for the entire winter session for unprecedented acts of misconduct and violent behaviour. Since CPI’s Binoy Viswom, the lone MP from his party in the Upper House, is suspended, he has not been invited for the meeting. Even as Rajya Sabha chairman Venkaiah Naidu had been regularly meeting Opposition leaders over the continuing logjam induced by the suspension, this is the first formal approach from the government to the Opposition outfits in a bid for resolution. The government managers including Union minister Piyush Goyal and Pralhad Joshi had been asking for an apology from the Opposition to revoke the suspension. But the Opposition is skeptical of this new initiative with just four days left of the winter session. Trinamool Congress floor leader Derek O’Brien termed the government’s approach as a stunt. “Monday morning STUNT from a Government which does not want #Parliament to function. Government calls leaders of the 4 Opposition parties whose 12 RS MPs have been arbitrarily suspended. Government leaves other 10 Opposition parties out. Failed stunt. Why is the govt not calling all opposition parties?” he tweeted. CPIM leader Elamaram Kareem also flagged the absence of other parties and said, “Opposition would meet Monday morning to decide. But we wanted an all-party meeting while the government is offering to meet a select group of leaders.” Congress leader Jairam Ramesh told HT, “We have already said no to the proposal.” On December 15, in an otherwise heated discussion with four Opposition leaders, Naidu had observed that an all-party meeting will be called when it is appropriate. “It implied that a meeting would serve no purpose when either the suspended MPs or leaders of their respective parties are not willing to reflect on their conduct and regret the same in an appropriate manner,” said a Rajya Sabha official. 
19-12-2021||India||Govt to meet parties over suspension of 12 MPs tomorrow: Sanjay Raut||The Centre has called a meeting with four political parties on Monday to break the impasse in the House over the suspension of 12 members of Parliament with just four days left in the Winter Session, Shiv Sena’s Rajya Sabha lawmaker Sanjay Raut said on Sunday.Sanjay Raut told news agency ANI Union parliamentary affairs minister Pralhad Joshi has called a meeting of leaders of the Congress, Trinamool Congress (TMC), the CPI(M) and CPI whose Rajya Sabha MPs have been suspended at 10 am in Parliament Library Building."The opposition leaders will meet in Parliament tomorrow morning to take a decision on taking part in the meeting called by the government,” Raut told ANI over the phone.Also read | 'In talks with suspended MPs, but…': Pralhad Joshi as Parliament logjam continuesCPl lawmaker Binoy Viswam talked about the meeting on Twitter and said his party will take the final decision only on Monday about the talks."Opposition united is fighting the suspension of 12 MPs. Calling 5 parties for discussion at the fag end of the session is to divide the opposition unity. CPI will not subscribe to it. Final decision will be taken tomorrow in the joined opposition meeting," Viswam tweeted.Opposition united is fighting the suspension of 12 MPs. Calling 5 parties for discussion at the fag end of the session is to divide the opposition unity. CPI will not subscribe to it. Final decision will be taken tomorrow in the joined opposition meeting.The Centre has called a meeting with five political parties on Monday to break the impasse in the House over the suspension of 12 members of Parliament with just four days left in the Winter Session, Shiv Sena’s Rajya Sabha lawmaker Sanjay Raut said on Sunday.Sanjay Raut told news agency ANI Union parliamentary affairs minister Pralhad Joshi has called a meeting of leaders of the Congress, Trinamool Congress (TMC), the Sena, the CPI(M) and CPI whose Rajya Sabha MPs have been suspended at 10 am in Parliament Library Building."The opposition leaders will meet in Parliament tomorrow morning to take a decision on taking part in the meeting called by the government,” Raut told ANI over the phone.Also read | 'In talks with suspended MPs, but…': Pralhad Joshi as Parliament logjam continuesCPl lawmaker Binoy Viswam talked about the meeting on Twitter and said his party will take the final decision only on Monday about the talks."Opposition united is fighting the suspension of 12 MPs. Calling 5 parties for discussion at the fag end of the session is to divide the opposition unity. CPI will not subscribe to it. Final decision will be taken tomorrow in the joined opposition meeting," Viswam tweeted. |#+|The Rajya Sabha has been adjourned several times due to the ruckus in the Upper House by the opposition parties demanding the revocation of the suspension of their MPs in the ongoing Winter Session of Parliament.The suspended MPs have been protesting at the Gandhi statue in the premises of the Parliament since the first day of their suspension.Also read | Protests over MPs’ suspension: Opposition sees little hope of resolutionThe suspended members comprise six from the Congress, two each from the Trinamool Congress and the Shiv Sena, and one each from the CPI and the CPI(M).Phulo Devi Netam, Chhaya Verma, Ripun Bora, Rajamani Patel, Syed Nasir Hussain and Akhilesh Prasad Singh of Congress; Dola Sen and Shanta Chhetri of the Trinamool Congress; Priyanka Chaturvedi and Anil Desai of the Shiv Sena; Elamaram Kareem of CPM; and Binoy Viswam of the CPI.Also read | Naidu calls up Opposition leader in a bid to end impasse over MPs’ suspensionThe MPs were suspended from the House on the first day of the Winter session of Parliament for alleged unruly conduct during the Monsoon Session in August. Marshals were called after the opposition members stormed the Well of the House during the passage of the General Insurance Business (Nationalisation) Amendment Bill, 2021.Parliamentary affairs minister Joshi has said the government was ready to consider revoking the suspension of the MPs if they apologise for their conduct in the House. Opposition party leaders have rejected the government's proposal for an apology.The Winter session of Parliament is scheduled to culminate on 23 December.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/govt-to-meet-parties-over-suspension-of-12-mps-tomorrow-sanjay-raut-101639928159980.html
19-12-2021||India||News updates from HT: Top US disease expert Fauci says Omicron is ‘raging through the world’ and all the latest news||Here are today’s top news, analysis, and opinion. Know all about the latest news and other news updates from Hindustan Times.Omicron ‘raging through the world’, 'no doubt' about breakthrough infections: FauciTop US infectious disease expert Dr Anthony Fauci said the Omicron variant of coronavirus is “raging through the world” as he urged Americans to continue wearing masks and get a vaccine booster dose. Read more.Maharashtra add 6 news Omicron cases, state’s tally rises to 54Maharashtra detected six new cases of Omicron, health officials said on Sunday, a day after logging eight infections related to the highly mutated variant of the coronavirus. Read more.CJI Ramana says Centre yet to respond to aid for Covid-hit lawyersChief Justice of India NV Ramana on Sunday said the central government has not yet responded to issues like setting up a judicial infrastructure corporation and providing financial help to lawyers who lost livelihood due to the Covid-19 pandemic. Read more.Just trying to show the difference: Priyanka on Rahul's 'Hindutvavadi' remarkCongress leader Priyanka Gandhi on Sunday said that her brother and senior party functionary Rahul Gandhi's recent remarks on ‘Hindu versus Hindutvavadi’ was aimed at bringing the difference between the two terminologies. Read moreBWF World Championships 2021: Kidambi Srikanth becomes first Indian male shuttler to claim silverFormer world no.1 and 12th seeded Kidambi Srikanth lost 15-21, 20-22 to unseeded Loh Kean Yew in the final to take home a historic silver for India in the 2021 BWF World Championships. Read more.Anushka Sharma, Virat Kohli send a message to those who shared Vamika's pics: 'We seek privacy for our child'Anushka Sharma, taking to her Instagram Stories, shared a message thanking those who refrained from publishing Vamika's pictures on public platforms and made a request to those who didn't. Read more.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/news-updates-from-ht-fauci-says-omicron-variant-is-raging-through-the-world-101639926621829.html
19-12-2021||India||India’s latest destroyer kicks off maiden trials in Arabian Sea||An indigenously built stealth destroyer --- one of the four warships being built under an important navy project called P-15B, on Sunday kicked off maiden trials in the Arabian Sea, the event coinciding with the 60th anniversary of the liberation of Goa from Portuguese rule. Mormugao is the second stealth destroyer under P-15B --- the first, INS Visakhapatnam, was commissioned in the navy on November 21 in Mumbai. Mormugao is expected to join the naval fleet by mid-2022, with the remaining two to be commissioned by 2025.The ships are being built at Mazagon Dock Shipbuilders Ltd in Mumbai. The commissioning of Visakhapatnam, armed with a variety of locally built weapons and sensors, reaffirmed India’s presence among an elite group of nations with capability to design and build advanced warships, the officials said. “December 19 is perhaps the most befitting date for the ship to put to sea for trials. The Indian Navy played a pivotal role in the liberation of Goa and dedicating the ship’s name to the maritime state will not just enhance the bonding between the Indian Navy and the people of Goa, but also link the ship’s identity permanently to the crucial role the navy played in nation-building,” the navy said in a statement. Mormugao will add significantly to the Indian Navy’s combat capabilities, it added. The navy is focused on strengthening its capabilities amid changing power dynamics in the Indian Ocean Region. Last month, it also inducted a French-designed Kalvari class diesel-electric attack submarine, Vela. INS Vela is the fourth of the six Kalvari class submarines being constructed in the country with technology transfer from French firm Naval Group under a ₹23,562-crore programme called P-75. The remaining two submarines will be commissioned in two years. India is also pursuing a project (P-75I) worth ₹40,000 crore for building six more advanced submarines in the country under the government’s strategic partnership (SP) model to bolster the Indian Navy’s underwater force levels and counter the rapid expansion of China’s submarine fleet. The Indian strategic partners cleared to collaborate with the foreign players are Mazagon Dock Shipbuilders Limited and L&T. The foreign yards they can team up with for the project are the French Naval Group, German conglomerate ThyssenKrupp Marine Systems, Russia’s Rubin Design Bureau, Spain’s Navantia and South Korea’s Daewoo Shipbuilding & Marine Engineering Company.
19-12-2021||India||2 monkeys captured in Maharashtra's Beed. They were involved in killing of over 250 dogs||Two monkeys, reportedly involved in the “revenge killing” of more than 250 dogs, have been captured by the forest department in Maharashtra's Beed, news agency ANI reported on Sunday."Two monkeys involved in the killing of dogs have been captured by a Nagpur forest department team in Beed,” Beed forest officer Sachin Kand was quoted as saying by the news agency.“Both the monkeys are being shifted to Nagpur to be released in a nearby forest,” Kand also told ANI.According to several reports, the dogs were killed in an act of revenge by the simians after a few dogs killed an infant monkey. Villagers have said the monkeys had been raising their children in the Lavool village."In the last two-three months, there have been incidents where the langurs roaming in the area would catch puppies and take them to a place with considerable height to throw them from there. At least 250 dogs have been killed so far,” a villager told ANI.The villagers then contacted Dharur's forest department after the monkeys began picking up school-going children as well.The incident has given way to memes on social media even as the hashtag #MonkeyvsDog started trending on Twitter.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/2-monkeys-captured-in-maharashtra-they-were-involved-in-killing-of-dogs-101639923502957.html
19-12-2021||India||Day after Golden Temple sacrilege attempt, Punjab CM blames ‘bad elements’||A day after the alleged sacrilege attempt inside the Golden Temple in Amritsar, Punjab chief minister Charanjit Singh Channi on Sunday urged people to maintain communal harmony and respect and protect all religious centres in the state.Channi paid a visit to the Golden Temple to take stock of the situation. He was accompanied by Punjab deputy chief minister Sukhjinder Singh Randhawa.Speaking to reporters, Channi said some “bad elements” could be behind Saturday's incident ahead of the assembly elections in Punjab next year. “Our agencies are conducting a probe,” the chief minister added.Also Read| Punjab constitutes SIT to probe Golden Temple incident, says report in 2 daysThe Punjab government has formed a special investigation (SIT) to probe the sacrilege attempt. The SIT will be led by Amritsar’s deputy commissioner of police (law and order) and the report on the incident will be submitted in two days.We appeal to the people of the State to respect & protect the religious centers of all religions, maintain communal harmony. It might be that some bad elements are causing this as Assembly elections are nearing. Our agencies are conducting a probe:Punjab CM Charanjit Singh Channi pic.twitter.com/P8KJxEDggbThe police have already registered an FIR under sections 295A and 307 of the Indian Penal Code (IPC) against an unknown accused of the deliberate and malicious intention of outraging the religious feelings and attempt to murder.Earlier on Sunday, assistant commissioner of police (ACP) Sanjeev Kumar said security arrangements were made at the Golden Temple and the situation was peaceful.Also Read| 'Deep-rooted conspiracy': SAD after alleged sacrilege attempt at Golden Temple"After yesterday's incident, we have made security arrangements here (at Golden Temple). Many Sangats come on weekends... Although the situation is peaceful, ACP Kumar told news agency ANI.On Saturday evening, a 30-year-old man from Uttar Pradesh allegedly stepped inside the sanctum sanctorum of the Golden Temple, picked a sword and reached the area where a priest was reciting the holy Guru Granth Sahib.The man was beaten to death by a group of angry pilgrims as he was being taken away by members of the Shiromani Gurdwara Parbandhak Committee (SGPC) task force.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/day-after-golden-temple-sacrilege-attempt-punjab-cm-blames-bad-elements-101639917997216.html
19-12-2021||India||India's Omicron count rises to 147; Maharashtra, Delhi have most cases||India's Omicron count mounted to 147 on Sunday, within 17 days, after two people, including a teenager, tested positive for the variant after recently returning to Gujarat from the United Kingdom, according to officials.India reported the first two cases of Omicron in Karnataka on December 2 after the heavily mutated variant of the coronavirus was first reported in South Africa on November 24.On Saturday, India reported 30 fresh cases of the Omicron variant of the coronavirus from Maharashtra, Karnataka, Kerala and Telangana. There were 26 new Omicron cases in the country on Friday and14 on Thursday and there were 12 infections on both Tuesday and Wednesday.Omicron cases have now been detected in 12 states and Union territories—Maharashtra has reported 48 cases, Delhi 22, Telangana 20, Rajasthan 17, Karnataka 14, Kerala 11, Gujarat 9, Uttar Pradesh 2, and one each in Andhra Pradesh, Chandigarh, Tamil Nadu and West Bengal.Also read | Omicron symptoms include runny nose, headache, fatigue: UK studyA Gujarat health department official said on Sunday a non-resident Indian (NRI) tested positive for Omicron in the RT-PCR test carried out at the Ahmedabad international airport soon after he arrived from the UK on December 15."The man's sample was later found infected with the Omicron variant," Anand district health officer Dr MT Chhari said and added he was supposed to travel to Anand city from Ahmedabad."But, after he tested positive for the coronavirus, he was taken to the Ahmedabad civil hospital from the airport. The patient is currently recovering at the Ahmedabad civil hospital," Dr Chhari said.Also read | Delhi govt, DDMA to hold review meeting tomorrow over rising cases of OmicronHe added the man’s co-passengers and other contacts have tested negative for the viral infection.A 15-year-old boy from Gandhinagar was also detected with the Omicron variant after returning from the UK, Gandhinagar municipal commissioner Dhaval Patel said.Maharashtra reported eight more Omicron cases, Telangana 12, and Karnataka and Kerala found six and four infections respectively on Saturday, officials have said.Also watch | Covid Omicron spreading faster with cases doubling in 1.5 to 3 days, says WHOMaharashtra on Saturday reported eight infections of the Omicron variant, which took the number of such cases in the state to 48, the health department said. It added 28 of these patients have already recovered or have been discharged after testing negative for Covid-19 in subsequent tests.The number of Omicron cases in Telangana rose to 20 after 12 more people tested positive for the variant on Saturday. The state health department said in a bulletin of the 12 new cases, two were passengers from countries declared "at risk" by the Centre, and the 10 others came from other nations.Also read | Why breathing difficulty is unlikely a symptom of Omicron, AIIMS doctor explainsIn Karnataka, officials said of the six cases reported on Saturday, one was a passenger from the UK and five others were from Covid-19 clusters in two educational institutions in Dakshina Kannada district.In Kerala, the two cases of the Omicron were detected from Thiruvananthapuram in patients aged 17 and 44. A 37-year-old was found to be infected with Omicron in Malappuram and a 49-year-old patient in the Thrissur district.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/indias-omicron-count-rises-to-147-maharashtra-delhi-have-most-cases-101639918027502.html
19-12-2021||India||CJI Ramana says Centre yet to respond to aid for pandemic-hit lawyers||Chief Justice of India NV Ramana on Sunday said the central government has not yet responded to issues like setting up a judicial infrastructure corporation and providing financial help to lawyers who lost livelihood due to the Covid-19 pandemic.Justice Ramana, who inaugurated a court complex at Warangal in Telangana said even the proposal of setting up mobile internet facilities in rural areas was sent earlier this year, nothing has been done yet, even as he expressed hope that the Centre would bring in a legislation in the ongoing winter session of Parliament for creating the Judicial Infrastructure Corporation."I asked the Centre to financially help families of lawyers who lost their livelihood due to Covid. There is no proper response from the government so far. With regards to creation of infrastructure there is no response either. I raise these issues whenever I get a chance at various forums when the Prime Minister and President are present," Justice Ramana said.In a recent written reply to a question in the Lok Sabha, Law Minister Kiren Rijiju said a proposal has been received from the Chief Justice of India (CJI) for setting up a National Judicial Infrastructure Authority of India for arrangement of adequate infrastructure for courts."The three main issues in the country are lack of basic infrastructure, increasing the number of judges and financial help to deserving lawyers. Only when we overcome these problems, can we reach out to people. There would be a meaning to "access to justice," he said.Regarding piling up of pending cases, he said not only the shortage of judges is the reason, but also necessary infrastructure. Expecting judges and lawyers sitting in dilapidated court buildings to deliver justice without providing adequate facilities is not fair. Governments, especially the centre should note this, he added.Justice Ramana said he wrote a letter to the centre and the law minister seeking setting up of a mobile network on vans to facilitate lawyers in the rural areas to attend court duties virtually. According to him, though lawyers who can afford and in cities and towns will be able to attend court through video conferencing, advocates in rural areas and who cannot afford the network would eventually lose their profession. "If necessary, the government can rope in big corporate houses to set up network stations under corporate social responsibility funds so that they can attend court duties virtually. The suggestion so far has not translated into action. I am waiting for the government to do something about it," the CJI said.He said many states in the country are shying away from allocating funds to build court complexes. He, however, appreciated the Telangana government for sanctioning funds to build a complex here without waiting for the central government amounts to come.(With inputs from agencies)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/cji-ramana-says-centre-yet-to-respond-to-aid-for-covid-hit-lawyers-101639915371618.html
19-12-2021||India||Bangalore Talkies: Women, Work and the Covid-19 pandemic||It is exactly two years since Covid-19 showed up in China and then in our lives. What are some memorable incidents or takeaways from it? Well, here’s one. In the throes of the lockdown, a strange event happened in our privileged apartment community in Bengaluru. What was strange was how normal we thought it to be at that time. Like most apartment buildings, ours too banned all external help from entering the community unless they were essential. Covid was raging all through Bengaluru. News of unnamed Covid-positive corpses being thrown into common Covid-burial sites made the rounds. We were all petrified of catching the virus. Household help for the elderly who lived in our building was allowed. But pretty much everyone else had to fend for themselves. Then came a request. A young man wrote to the building committee asking if his cook could be allowed inside the building. He was a single working man, he said and needed food. This was discussed. “Tenant in Apartment 845 wants his cook to come-- on alternate days at least-- to cook for him,” was the gist of the discussion on the committee Whatsapp group. What was interesting was that most people in the ten-person committee, including the women, thought this to be a normal request. Most were inclined to view it favourably and allow the cook to “help” the young man. “Why should he starve?” was the view. Till one male member of the committee called him out. Why were we allowing the man to get a cook? Just because he was a man and couldn’t cook for himself? In short, yes. That was the implicit bias that all of us were operating under. Men needed help cooking – nothing wrong with asking for support in that area.As the pandemic hopefully says goodbye, the ‘gendered impact’ of the pandemic is well-known. How now to take stock and make changes? For women, the pandemic has been a source of more work and more angst. Many of us have been asked the question: has the lockdown opened the eyes of society to the “multitasking capabilities” of women? It is meant as a compliment, but it is actually a curse. Thanks to the pandemic, women have been forced to multitask more than ever, taking care of school-age children who are fed up with virtual classes, caring for elders who are driving them batty, enabling their husbands who usually tend to earn more money and are therefore necessary to bolster the household’s finances. But what about the working woman herself? Who is going to enable her?A harder and more necessary stance might be the opposite. Yes, women can multitask, but men can too. Thanks to being home-bound during the lockdown, some men found that they loved to cook and were terrific at it. Others found new purpose in helping their sons and daughters with art projects or math homework and took delight in being indispensable to their kids-- “for a change,” as one said.In my view, praising a woman’s ability to multitask confines her to the stereotypical role of a caregiver and enabler-- which in turn puts less pressure on men and society to admit that there is a problem in how disproportionately women shoulder the burden of the household. Unlike at companies where jobs can afford to be specialized, households require flexibility, fluidity and agility-- from all partners. If the pandemic has taught us anything, it is that men can be great Moms-- packing the kids off to school while their mother takes a zoom call from the US team. Rather than celebrating the woman’s ability to do more, I think it is time for society to celebrate the man’s ability to do something-- inside the home. Men can and should step up and own up to household chores. It should no longer be acceptable to say, “Oh, thanks to the pandemic, my son has learned to make tea.” As if a simple tea deserves a crown. India has among the lowest participation of women in the workplace. As a nation, our economy needs to bounce back from the Covid-19 recession. Supporting women in both roles – at home and the workplace – is not just good for the soul of society. It is great for the economy too. Here is the thing: the pandemic only highlighted what we all knew. The fact that Indian society penalizes working women – doesn’t support them – was known even before the pandemic. It is what medical doctors call a pre-existing condition. The sooner corporates, governments and businesses act to nudge women back to the workplace, the better it is for India. Even the most traditional ministers who talk about “Bharatiya sanskar” can buy into this. Yes, a woman’s place is at home, but also at the workplace if they so desire. Frankly, other than the delivery of a baby and breastfeeding, every other function can be shared by the husband and wife-- without prejudice or stereotype. As for the man in my building, he could jolly well learn to cook for himself. About time. At least that is what the building committee decided, and we all lauded them for it.
19-12-2021||India||Just trying to show the difference: Priyanka on Rahul's 'Hindutvavadi' remark||Congress leader Priyanka Gandhi on Sunday said that her brother and senior party functionary Rahul Gandhi's recent remarks on ‘Hindu versus Hindutvavadi’ was aimed at bringing the difference between the two terminologies.Speaking to reporters, Priyanka said Hinduism teaches honesty and love among people, while the Rashtriya Swayamsevak (RSS) and Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) indulge in politics in the name of religion. “They are not on the path of righteousness or honesty. Rahul Gandhi is just trying to show the difference,” she added.Also Read| Hindutvawadi bathes alone in the Ganga: Rahul Gandhi takes jibe at PM Modi in AmethiOn Saturday, Rahul told a packed gathering in Amethi that a ‘Hindutvavadi’ could be described as someone bathing alone in the Ganges alone, while a Hindu is the one who takes crores along.Raebareli| Hinduism teaches honesty & love amongst all. RSS&BJP members do politics in the name of religion;they aren't on the path of righteousness or honesty. Rahul Ji is just trying to show the difference: Congress leader Priyanka Gandhi on Rahul Gandhi's 'Hindutvavadi' remark pic.twitter.com/Y8JelYV825"A 'Hindutvavadi' bathes alone in the Ganga, while a Hindu bathes with crores of people... Narendra Modi says he is a Hindu, but when did he protect the truth? He said he would give two crore youth jobs, where did he do so? He asked people to bang thalis to get rid of Covid... Hindu or Hindutvadi?" Gandhi said while addressing a rally in his former Lok Sabha constituency.On December 13, Prime Minister Narendra Modi had taken a dip in the Ganga ahead of inaugurating the first phase of the Kashi Vishwanath Corridor in Uttar Pradesh.Also Read| Rahul, Priyanka Gandhi return to Amethi to regain lost Congress bastionA day ago, Rahul also said that the true meaning of Hindu is someone who only follows the path of truth and never converts his fear into violence, hate and anger.Reacting to this statement, Vishva Hindu Parishad's (VHP's) Alok Kumar said Rahul tries hard to pretend to be Hindu but commits a mistake every time."Congress has lost its way and Rahul Gandhi tries hard to pretend to be Hindu but commits mistakes every time," Kumar said."Rahul Gandhi needs a new writer. He says he is a Hindu but does not believe in Hindutva. This is like you are human but don't believe in humanity," Kumar added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/just-trying-to-show-the-difference-priyanka-on-rahul-s-hindutvavadi-remark-101639909695311.html
19-12-2021||India||News updates from HT: Curbs on construction works likely to ease in Delhi and all the latest news||Here are today’s top news, analysis, and opinion. Know all about the latest news and other news updates from Hindustan Times.Construction curbs likely to be eased in Delhi as air quality improves: ReportThe Commission for Air Quality Management (CAQM) is expected to give more relaxations to construction and demolition activities in Delhi and the National Capital Region (NCR) in wake of the air quality index (AQI) improving over the last few days, an official told news agency PTI on Sunday. Read morePunjab constitutes SIT to probe Golden Temple incident, says report in 2 daysThe Punjab government on Sunday formed a special investigation team (SIT) to probe the alleged sacrilege attempt at Golden Temple in Amritsar on Saturday, people familiar with the matter said. Read moreAgencies being used to keep Samajwadi Party away from power: Akhilesh YadavSamajwadi Party (SP) president Akhilesh Yadav on Sunday renewed his attack on the ruling Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) over the income tax raids at the residences of his aide and party leader Rajeev Rai and others a day ago. Read moreOmicron spread: These European countries have tightened Covid restrictionsThe rising cases of the coronavirus disease (Covid-19), fuelled by the Omicron variant, in Europe has prompted several countries in the region to take precautionary measures to prevent another outbreak. Read moreSuffering from common cold? Eat these foods for quick recoveryCome winters, and a host of illnesses pertaining to cold weather start knocking at the door putting one at the risk of falling sick. The dry winter air tends to accelerate the virus transmission, which makes people with weak immune system vulnerable to several diseases. Read moreSpider-Man: No Way Home crosses $300 million on global box office, Dwayne Johnson and Simu Liu wish Tom Holland. WatchMarvel’s newest superhero film Spider-Man: No Way Home is shattering pandemic-era box office records globally. As per a Deadline report, the film has already grossed $302.9 million worldwide by Saturday and is likely to cross the half billion-dollar mark after Sunday. Read more'You look at Australia, England series, we have done exceptionally': Pujara lists India's huge strength ahead of SA TourTeam India's bowling pace battery has been massively impressive in Test cricket over the course of the last couple of years, especially in the last 12-15 months. Read moreShashi Tharoor praises artist who sketched his pic using color pencil and penThere are times when people come across posts that make them go wow. Such a post was recently shared on Twitter by Shashi Tharoor. The post he shared shows an incredible sketch of the MP by an artist. Read more||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/news-updates-from-ht-curbs-on-construction-works-likely-to-ease-in-delhi-101639912745027.html
19-12-2021||India||Two political murders in 12 hours shock Kerala||There was tension in many areas of Kerala after two state-level leaders of the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) and Social Democratic Party of India (SDPI), the political wing of the Popular Front of India, were killed in an apparent retaliatory attack in Alappuzha on Sunday. Police have rounded up at least 50 people in connection with the twin political murders that happened in less than 12 hours in a radius of 10 km, said Inspector General of Police Harshita Attaluri. Prohibitory orders (Section 144) were clamped in the district for two days and many senior police officials are staying in the area to avoid further clashes. SDPI state secretary K S Shan (38) was stabbed to death by an alleged group of RSS-BJP workers on Saturday night and in less than 12 hours BJP OBC Morch state secretary Ranjith Sreenivasan was hacked to death in his house allegedly by SDPI workers. Both leaders received more than 40 stab wounds, police said. The SDPI leader was attacked while he was returning home in Mannacherry on his scooter. Assailants who came in a car first hit the two-wheeler and when he fell down they stabbed him repeatedly, police said. He received multiple fractures and head injuries and later he succumbed to his wounds in a private hospital in Ernakulam. He is survived by his wife and two children. Minutes after the murder, SDPI alleged that the Rashtriya Swayamsevak Sangh (RSS) was behind the attack. Both RSS and SDPI have blamed each other for the twin murders. “The RSS is trying to create mayhem by eliminating political opponents and silencing minority community members. It is a well planned and executed murder,” said Popular Front state president C P Mohammad Basheer. He also said RSS state leader Valsan Thillankeri was in the district on Saturday and he was aware of the cold-blooded murder. But Thillankeri denied this saying he attended a function in the district which was announced much earlier. He said the RSS has no role in the murder. According to the police, there was no immediate provocation for the SDPI leader’s murder but they suspect that it may be in retaliation to the murder of an ABVP worker V Nandu in Vayalar in February this year. Clashes between RSS and SDPI workers take place regularly in many parts of the state and last month a RSS leader S Sanjith was stabbed to death in Palakkad in a similar way. The BJP leader was attacked on Sunday morning while he was coming out of his house for a morning stroll. He was pounced on by an eight-member team and stabbed before his mother in his house. He died on the way to the hospital. Viswanathan (40) had contested the April assembly elections unsuccessfully. BJP state president K Surendran said the state government’s open support to the communal outfit led to the gruesome murder. He sought an investigation by a central agency saying the party will not get justice from the state police. “The ruling CPI(M) is running many local bodies with the help of SDPI. It supports the communal outfit to checkmate the RSS,” he said. “Pinarayi Vijayan’s goonda raj took another precious life. No law and order and killers go scot-free,” tweeted Minister of State for External Affairs V Muraleedharan. Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan has condemned the twin murders. “The government will not allow anyone to take the law into their hands. We will not tolerate any attempt to vitiate the peaceful atmosphere of the state,” he said in the state capital. The government has also announced a special investigation team to probe both killings and Additional DGP Vijay Sakhre will supervise it. CPI(M) leader J Chittaranjan, also a local legislator, asked both parties to shed politics of violence. Opposition leader V D Satheesan and state Congress president K Sudhakaran also condemned the murders. “If police were alert, the second murder should have been avoided. The police should have been given a free hand to investigate both,” said Satheesan. 
19-12-2021||India||PM Modi inaugurates multiple development projects worth over ₹600 crore in Goa||Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Sunday inaugurated and laid the foundation stone of multiple development projects worth over ₹600 core in Goa, including the renovated Fort Aguada Jail Museum. On the occasion of Goa Liberation Day, PM Modi inaugurated a super speciality block at Goa Medical College, New South Goa District Hospital, aviation skill development centre at Mopa Airport and the gas-insulated substation at Dabolim-Navelim in Margao.During the event organised at Dr Shyama Prasad Mukherjee Stadium, Modi also felicitated the freedom fighters and veterans of ‘Operation Vijay’ as part of Goa Liberation Day celebrations.Speaking at the event, the prime minister said the land and sea of Goa have been blessed with nature's boon.“Goa came under Portugal rule when the other major part of the country was ruled by the Mughals. But even centuries later, neither Goa has forgotten its Indianness, nor India has forgotten its Goa,” he added.Recalling his recent meeting with Pope Francis in Vatican City, Modi said the sentiments of the head of the Catholic Church was overwhelming for him."I must tell you what he said after my invitation. Pope Francis said, 'This is the greatest gift you have given me'. This is his love for India's diversity, our vibrant democracy," he said.Modi remembered former Goa chief minister Manohar Parrikar, saying the country through his “character…saw how honest, talented, and hardworking the people of Goa are.” "Through his life, we saw that how one can remain devoted to his state, his people till his last breath," he added.Earlier today, PM Modi offered floral tributes at Martyrs' Memorial in Panaji and attended Sail Parade and FlyPast on the occasion of Goa Liberation Day.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/pm-modi-inaugurates-multiple-development-projects-in-goa-worth-over-600-crore-101639910446036.html
19-12-2021||India||Unhappy over low price on offer, farmer sets afire a quintal of garlic in MP's Mandsaur||A farmer in Madhya Pradesh set his a quintal of garlic on fire after he failed to get a good price for his produce at an agricultural market on Sunday.Officials said the incident happened in Mandsaur and the farmer, Shankar Singh, was unhappy for being offered ₹1,400 for every quintal of garlic crop.Singh, a resident of Mahidpur in Ujjain, said he had invested Rs.2.5 lakh in garlic, got only Rs.1 lakh. “We do not want any bonus from the government, just the right price for our crop,” he told reporters.Madhya Pradesh | A farmer set his 1 quintal of garlic on fire at Mandsaur Krishi Upaj Mandi, yesterday. I invested Rs.2.5 lakhs in garlic, got only Rs.1 lakh. We do not want any bonus from the govt, just the right price for our crop: Shankar, farmer (18.12) pic.twitter.com/z30m0bhkZSThe inspector of Mandsaur Krishi Upaj Mandi Samiti, Jagdish Babar, said Singh’s crop was auctioned at around ₹1,400 per quintal since the quality was poor. He said over 8,000 sacks of garlic had arrived at the market on Saturday, which were sold between ₹1,000 to ₹12,000 per quintal depending on the quality."Angry that his crop fetched a low rate, the farmer set some 50-60 kilograms of garlic on fire." Babar said, adding that average quality garlic was sold between ₹2,500 and ₹5,500 per quintal.A video of the incident showed people standing around the burning heap of garlic and shouting patriotic slogans.Police said preliminary investigation revealed no damage has been done to anyone else in the vicinity. However, a mandi official filed a complaint with the Yashodharman police station claiming Singh's crop burning act was pre-planned.At present, there is a bumper garlic crop in the Mandsaur Krishi Upaj Mandi and farmers from different districts are coming to sell their produce here.(With inputs from agencies)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/unhappy-over-low-price-on-offer-farmer-sets-afire-a-quintal-of-garlic-in-mp-101639909400434.html
19-12-2021||India||India strategic ally of all central Asian countries: Kyrgyzstan minister||Highlighting that India and Central Asian countries share deep-rooted historical relations, Kyrgyzstan Foreign Minister Ruslan Kazakbaev on Sunday said that New Delhi is the strategic partner of all countries in the region.In his opening remarks at the 3rd meeting of the India-Central Asia Dialogue here, Kazakbaev said his country is very grateful for having diplomatic relations with India."I'm very happy to say that we are having good relations and talks with India in the Central Asia region, which provides the dynamics of relations," he said, adding that dialogues between participating countries in such meetings are fruitful.Kyrgyzstan Foreign Minister said that being in Central Asia, at the center of the world, it has very warm relations with the Indian side and both share deep-rooted historical relations."Today, India is the strategical partner for all countries of Central Asia and we have like political and economic, cultural relations and partnership and cooperation," he said.While recalling the recent talks on Afghanistan, Kazakbaev said a "special place of our relations is security and we are happy that we had recently talked about Afghanistan about the safety and security of the region.""We are ready to support and collaborate in all the measurements to make this region safer. And we wish that further also we would develop our relations," he said.Jaishankar is hosting the third meeting of the India-Central Asia Dialogue aiming to further strengthen ties between the member countries, with a particular focus on trade, connectivity and development cooperation.This dialogue is seeing the participation from Foreign Ministers of Turkmenistan, Kazakhstan, Tajikistan, Kyrgyzstan and Uzbekistan. It assumes importance due to the ongoing humanitarian situation in Afghanistan.Since the Taliban's takeover of the country, Jaishankar has met several of the participating ministers for talks focusing on the issues concerning the troubled country.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/india-strategic-ally-of-all-central-asian-countries-kyrgyzstan-minister-101639896781422.html
19-12-2021||India||Mormugao, a stealth destroyer, sails for maiden sea trials on Goa Liberation Day||Indian Navy's indigenous stealth guided-missile destroyer Mormugao went for her maiden sea sortie on the occasion of Goa Liberation day. The second indigenous stealth destroyer of the Project 15B class is planned for commissioning in mid-2022, and, according to the ministry of defence, December 19 was “perhaps the most befitting date” for the ship to be taken out for maiden sea trial as India celebrates 60 years of Goa’s liberation from Portuguese rule.Mormugao, which incorporates several niche indigenous technologies, has been built at Mazagon Dock Shipbuilders Ltd (MDSL) as part of the P15B destroyers.“The Indian Navy played a pivotal role in the liberation and dedicating the ship's name to the maritime state of Goa will not just enhance the bonding between the Indian Navy and the people of Goa, but also link the ship's identity permanently to the crucial role the Navy played in nation-building,” the defence ministry said in a statement.In pics: Mormugao, Indian Navy’s guided missile destroyer, launchedThe destroyer is expected to add significantly to the capabilities of the Indian Navy, which got a major booster in the form of INS Visakhapatnam’s and the fourth stealth scorpene class submarine INS Vela’s commissioning. INS Vela was also constructed at MDSL Mumbai in collaboration with M/s Naval Group, France, and was delivered to the Indian Navy on November 9, 2021. A total of six submarines are to be built under the project.“With the recent commissioning in November 2021 of INS Visakhapatnam and the fourth P75 submarine INS Vela, commencement of sea trials of Mormugao is testimony to the cutting-edge capabilities of MDSL and the strong indigenous shipbuilding tradition of a modern and vibrant India,” the ministry added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/mormugao-a-stealth-destroyer-sails-for-maiden-sea-trials-on-goa-liberation-day-101639906078206.html
19-12-2021||India||Latest terrorist killings reveal Pakistan hell-bent on disturbing peace in Kashmir: Top cop||Police said the latest killing of three Pakistani terrorists in Srinagar in about a month revealed the neighbouring country is hell-bent on disturbing peace in Kashmir valley.Inspector general of police Vijay Kumar spoke to the media after a terrorist was gunned down in the Harwan area of Srinagar on Sunday in a joint operation. Kumar said all the killed men were involved in several terror crimes, including attacks on police and security forces and civilian killings.“Three Pakistani terrorists were killed in Srinagar within 33 days. They were involved in several terror crimes including attacks on police and security forces and civilian killings. It shows that Pakistan is hell-bent to disturb peace in the Valley, especially in Srinagar,” the top police officer was quoted as saying by news agency ANI.In an earlier update, the Jammu & Kashmir Police said the slain terrorist has been identified as one Saifulla alias Abu Khalid, who was a resident of Pakistan's Karachi and affiliated with the proscribed terror outfit Lashkar-e-Toiba (LeT).Kumar said the terrorist had infiltrated India back in 2016 and was active in Harwan over the past few years.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/latest-terrorist-killings-reveal-pak-hell-bent-on-disturbing-peace-in-kashmir-101639903083917.html
19-12-2021||India||Srinagar: Security forces gun down LeT terrorist in overnight encounter||Joint security forces of the Indian armed forces and Jammu and Kashmir (J&K) police on Sunday gunned down a terrorist in the Harwan area of Srinagar, officials said in an update later in the day. According to the J&K Police, the slain terrorist has been identified as one Saifulla alias Abu Khalid, who was a resident of Pakistan's Karachi and affiliated with the proscribed terror outfit Lashkar-e-Toiba (LeT).According to Vijay Kumar, the inspector-general of Kashmir Police (IGP), the terrorist had infiltrated India back in 2016 and was through all these years active in the general area of Harwan. He had also been involved in several terrorism-related crimes, the official added.The police said the encounter broke out after security forces launched a cordon and search operation in the Harwan area of Srinagar, following specific inputs about the presence of terrorists in the area. The encounter, which brought down Saifulla, took place overnight.According to the J&K Police, about three Pakistani terrorists were killed within Srinagar city limits within the past 33 days. “They were involved in several terror crimes including attacks on police, security forces, and also connected with civilian killings,” the IGP Kashmir said. “It shows that Pakistan is hell-bent on disturbing the peace in the Valley, especially in Srinagar city.”Earlier this week, a terrorist was killed in a similar encounter with security forces in Jammu and Kashmir's Pulwama. Last week, a Jaish-e-Mohammed (JeM) terrorist was also slain in the same area.The Union home ministry, however, told the Lok Sabha during the ongoing winter session that terror-related incidents in the Union territory have dropped from 255 in 2019 to 206 this year since the scrapping of the special status under Article 370 of the Constitution.“The security in Jammu and Kashmir has improved significantly since August 2019 and there has been a significant decline in terrorist incidents,” said minister of state for home affairs Nityanand Rai. “Security grid has been further strengthened and infiltration of terrorists from across the border has also come down significantly.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/srinagar-security-forces-gun-down-let-terrorist-in-overnight-encounter-101639901025688.html
19-12-2021||India||Man perhaps came with the target of sacrilege only: Punjab deputy CM on Golden Temple incident||Pushing for the penalty of 10-year imprisonment for all those who are found guilty of sacrilege, Punjab deputy chief minister Sukhjinder Singh Randhawa on Sunday said the Golden Temple incident that took place on Saturday was unfortunate. "It seems that the person came with the target of sacrilege only as he was there for 9-10 hours. He had not been identified yet," the deputy CM said adding that the investigation is on."In 2018, the state government passed and sent a proposal to the Centre to make minimum 10 years of imprisonment under Section 295A to whoever causes injury, damage or sacrilege to Guru Granth Sahib, Bhagavad Gita, Quran and Bible. I will write again to the Centre," the deputy CM said.The incident drew sharp reactions from political leaders condemning the attempt to sacrilege bid. "Strongly condemn the horrific incident of attempted sacrilege of Sri Guru Granth Sahib Ji at Darbar Sahib. Govt must get to the bottom of what led this man to act in such a despicable manner!" former chief minister Amarinder Singh tweeted on Saturday.A man hailing from Uttar Pradesh was beaten to death after an alleged attempt to commit sacrilege inside the sanctum sanctorum of the Golden Temple. According to reports, the man jumped the golden grills inside the sanctum sanctorum and picked a sword and reached near the place where a Sikh priest was reciting the holy Guru Granth Sahib. The man was caught by Shiromani Gurdwara Parbandhak Committee (SGPC) task force members. When he was being taken to the SGPC office, an angry crowd thrashed him leading to his death. It is being probed how many people were with him and exactly at what time he entered the temple.Another alleged incident of disrespect of Nissan Sahib (Sikh flag) was reported from Nizampur village in Punjab's Kapurthala district.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/man-perhaps-came-with-the-target-of-sacrilege-only-punjab-deputy-cm-101639901183595.html
19-12-2021||India||RSS doesn't have remote control of Modi govt: Mohan Bhagwat||The Rashtriya Swayamsevak Sangh (RSS) has no control over the Narendra Modi-led Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) government at the Centre. RSS chief Mohan Bhagwat said that while the main people are working in the government, they would continue to remain a part of the Sangh."They have different executives, different policies, different working methods. Thoughts and culture are of the Sangh and that is effective. The main people are working there (in the government), they belong to the Sangh and will remain so. There is only such relation and nothing like the media says 'Direct Remote Control', no such control," Bhagwat was quoted as saying by news agency ANI.Bhagwat said this while addressing an event of ex-servicemen in Dharamshala. About one thousand ex-servicemen attended the event in Dharamshala on Saturday evening and the RSS chief urged them to know more about Sangh."Governments were against us. There has always been opposition. The Sangh has been running for 96 years by overcoming all obstacles and since so many volunteers are getting ready so they will not keep quiet or sit idle. Wherever there is a need to work in society, they are always available. The work done by the swayamsevaks prove they do not just run Parliament, they take the people of society along, they are independent and autonomous."In another context, Bhagwat said the DNA of all Indians is the same. "The DNA of all the people of India from 40,000 years ago is the same as that of the people of today. The ancestors of all of us are one, because of those ancestors our country flourished, our culture continued," he said.(With inputs from agencies)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/rss-doesn-t-have-remote-control-of-modi-govt-mohan-bhagwat-101639900093661.html
19-12-2021||India||Gujarat's Omicron tally climbs to 9; two UK returnees infected with variant||A 45-year-old NRI and a teenage boy, who recently arrived in Gujarat from the United Kingdom, have been found infected with the Omicron variant of Covid-19, officials said on Sunday.With this, the total number of such cases in the state has gone up to nine. The NRI (non-resident Indian) tested positive for the coronavirus infection in the RT-PCR test carried out at the Ahmedabad international airport soon after his arrival from the UK on December 15, a health department official said.Also Read| 3 Omicron patients in Gujarat test negative for Covid-19, discharged"The man's sample was later found infected with the Omicron variant," Anand district health officer Dr M T Chhari said. He was scheduled to reach the state's Anand city from Ahmedabad. "But, after he tested positive for the coronavirus, he was taken to the Ahmedabad civil hospital from the airport. The patient is currently recovering at the Ahmedabad civil hospital," Dr Chhari said. His co-passengers and other contacts have tested negative for the viral infection, the official said.On Saturday, a 15-year-old boy from Gandhinagar was also detected with the Omicron variant after returning from the UK, Gandhinagar Municipal Commissioner Dhaval Patel said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/gujarats-omicron-tally-climbs-to-9-two-uk-returnees-infected-with-variant-101639899000554.html
19-12-2021||India||India, Central Asian states have similar concerns, objectives in Afghanistan: Jaishankar||The impact of the Taliban takeover of Afghanistan on regional security, post-pandemic recovery and steps to boost regional connectivity and trade were in focus as the foreign ministers of India and the five Central Asian states held their third dialogue on Sunday.External affairs minister S Jaishankar set the stage for the discussions, saying in his televised opening remarks that India and the Central Asian states have similar concerns and objectives in Afghanistan, including the formation of an inclusive government, the fight against terrorism, and ensuring unhindered humanitarian assistance.Jaishankar called for diversified supply chains and regional solutions to overcome the impact of the Covid-19 pandemic and bolster economic recovery. He also called for a focus on 4Cs – commerce, capacity enhancement, connectivity and contacts – to take ties between India and Central Asia to the next level.India is hosting the third edition of the dialogue, which began in 2019. This year’s event was joined by the foreign ministers of Kazakhstan, Kyrgyzstan, Tajikistan, Turkmenistan and Uzbekistan, who skipped a meeting of foreign ministers of the Organisation of Islamic Cooperation (OIC) on Afghanistan hosted by Pakistan on Sunday. All the Central Asian states are members of the OIC and were represented at the meet in Islamabad by deputy foreign ministers or other ministers.Most of the Central Asian foreign ministers spoke of the need to build on the historical and cultural ties of their region with India and highlighted the potential for cooperation in areas such as connectivity, transport, transit and energy. They also referred to the security cooperation between Central Asia and India, including in the context of Afghanistan.“We all...share deep-rooted historical and civilisational ties with Afghanistan. Our concerns and objectives in that country are similar: a truly inclusive and representative government, the fight against terrorism and drug trafficking, ensuring unhindered humanitarian assistance and preserving the rights of women, children and the minorities,” Jaishankar said in his opening remarks. “We must find ways of helping the people of Afghanistan,” he added.Uzbekistan’s foreign minister Abdulaziz Kamilov, in his opening remarks, pointed to the “challenging situation in neighbouring Afghanistan” and spoke of the “need to develop a unified and coordinated approach towards this country”. Kyrgyz foreign minister Ruslan Kazakbaev described India as a strategic partner for all the Central Asian states. He noted security has a special place in this relationship and said Kyrgyzstan will collaborate on all measures to make the region safer.With the leaders of the five Central Asian states expected to be the chief guests at next year’s Republic Day celebrations, Turkmenistan’s foreign minister Rashid Meredov said Sunday’s meeting would be a “key event in the preparation process for the upcoming Central Asia-India Summit in January”.Jaishankar called for a collective response to the challenges facing the region, including the impact of Covid-19 on global health and economy, and said the pandemic had changed societies, supply chains and governance. It had also highlighted the inadequacy of existing multilateral structures to meet new and emerging threats, he said.“We need diversified supply chains and more regional solutions. India has been steadfast in its resolve for the fight against Covid-19,” he said, noting that India had supplied Covid-19 vaccines to more than 90 countries, including Tajikistan and Uzbekistan.He thanked all the Central Asian states for taking care of Indian students amid the pandemic.With India and Central Asia facing the test of rebuilding their economies, Jaishankar said, “But together we can do this better and India, I assure you, will be your steadfast partner.“We already have a good history of cooperation. But my message to you today is a readiness to take it to the next level. Our ties must now focus around 4Cs – commerce, capacity enhancement, connectivity and contacts.”Kazakhstan foreign minister Mukhtar Tileuberdi said the India-Central Asia Dialogue is a great platform for discussions on topical issues and has boosted regional connectivity. He said Kazakh President Kassym-Jomart Tokayev is expected to visit India next year, coinciding with 30 years of the establishment of diplomatic ties.“We welcome India’s active role and growing interest in Central Asia. Our region is now on a new development stage towards unprecedented convergence in politics, economy, trade and security... India has huge potential for Central Asia’s development,” Tileuberdi said.Tajikistan foreign minister Sirojiddin Muhriddin said a growing trend of regional integration in Central Asia has created new opportunities for expanding cooperation between the region and India. 
19-12-2021||India||Islamic terrorist group behind Kerala BJP worker's murder: Union minister||Union minister V Muraleedharan on Sunday demanded that the Kerala government take strict action against the perpetrators of the murder of Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) leader in Alappuzha district earlier in the day.Muraleedharan said an Islamic terrorist group is behind the murder of the BJP OBC Morcha leader Renjith Sreenivasan, who was killed at his house by unidentified people on Sunday morning.Also Read| Two political murders in under 12 hours shock KeralaCiting the murder of a worker of the Rashtriya Swayamsevak Sangh (RSS) in Palakkad a few weeks ago, the Union minister said the state government has not taken any action to prevent such incidents.“Instead, they (Kerala government) have been taking a soft stand with Islamic terrorists which has encouraged them to indulge in more violence,” the Union minister added.Kerala: I've been told that State Secy of BJP OBC Morcha was stabbed to death, this morning. This is the handy work of Islamic terrorist group is the info coming from Alleppey (Alappuzha). I demand the State govt to take strict action against perpetrators:Union Min V Muralidharan https://t.co/VRuiureFOH pic.twitter.com/BW8Z9riTjRTwelve hours before Sreenivasan's murder, state secretary of the Social Democratic Party of India (SDPI) Shan KS was killed while returning home in Alappuzha's Mannanchery area on his scooter. Police said the attackers, who were in a car, hit Shan's scooter and stabbed him repeatedly as he fell.Also Read| Section 144 imposed in Kerala's Alappuzha after twin political murdersThe SDPI has alleged the involvement of the RSS behind Shan's murder. However, RSS leaders have refuted the charges. Both these fronts have engaged in clashes regularly in many parts of Kerala.The administration has imposed restrictions under Section-144 of the CrPC following the two murders. Chief minister Pinarayi Vijayan has assured of strict police action against the perpetrators."Such heinous and inhumane acts of violence are dangerous to the state. I am sure that all the people would be ready to identify and isolate such killer groups and their hateful attitudes," Vijayan said in a press conference.(With ANI inputs)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/islamic-terrorist-group-behind-kerala-bjp-worker-s-murder-union-minister-101639896010845.html
19-12-2021||India||News updates from HT: Two political murders in under 12 hours shock Kerala and all the latest news||Here are today’s top news, analysis and opinion. Know all about the latest news and other news updates from Hindustan Times.Two political murders in under 12 hours shock KeralaTwo state-level leaders of the Social Democratic Party of India (SDPI) and the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) were killed in an apparent retaliatory attack in Alappuzha on Sunday, police said. Read moreOne injured by crude bomb during Kolkata civic polls; low turnout till afternoonA man sustained an injury in the leg when a crude bomb went off in the north-eastern part of Kolkata on Sunday morning during the Kolkata Municipal Corporation (KMC) elections, police said. Read moreDay after Golden Temple sacrilege ‘bid’, one death, cop says situation peacefulA day after a man was beaten to death following an alleged attempt to commit sacrilege inside the Golden Temple in Amritsar, police said on Sunday security arrangements have been made on the premises and the situation is peaceful. Read morePushpa The Rise box office day 2 collection: Allu Arvind's film crosses ₹100 crore worldwideAllu Arvind's Pushpa is storming through the box office. The film, which gave Spider-Man: No Way Home a competition at the ticket counters, has collected ₹100 crore gross worldwide since its release on Friday. Read more‘Wonder if Kev is still watching?’ - Ponting takes jibe against Pietersen for his ‘zero variations’ remarks against LyonFormer Australia captain Ricky Ponting took a jibe against ex-England international Kevin Pietersen for his remarks against Nathan Lyon during the ongoing day-night Test between the two sides in Adelaide. Read morePriyanka Chopra in Sati-inspired bombshell gown stuns at The Matrix Resurrections premiere: All pics hereThe star cast of the much-anticipated Hollywood film The Matrix Resurrections arrived in style for screening at The Castro Theatre on December 18 in San Francisco, California. Priyanka Chopra Jonas with Keanu Reeves, Carrie-Anne Moss, Jada Pinkett Smith, Jessica Henwick and more walked the green carpet at the glamorous premiere. See hereChris Hemsworth aka Thor’s son ‘turns’ into Hawkeye, uses toy arrow to shoot bottle off his head. WatchChris Hemsworth, who plays the role of superhero Thor in the Marvel Cinematic Universe, recently took to Instagram to post a video about an interesting moment he shared with his son. Watch here||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/news-updates-from-ht-two-political-murders-in-under-12-hours-shock-kerala-and-all-the-latest-news-101639896665530.html
19-12-2021||India||Long Covid: Range of symptoms, medical burden||On December 3, Sangeeta Gharat went back to work seven months after she contracted Covid-19. A 51-year-old assistant administrative officer with the Life Insurance Corporation (LIC), Gharat took her 24-year-old daughter, Priya, with her on the first day.The mother and daughter spent the first few hours conducting a trial of sorts: Priya stood by, ready to help, as her mother pushed open the main door of her first-floor office in Mumbai’s Nariman Point. It took Gharat all the strength she could muster. Priya watched as her mother struggled to grip the handles of her swivel chair. Gharat couldn’t push the pile of files — gathered on her desk over the months she was away — and moved each one out of her way. When she opened the drawer, Gharat let out a painful sigh. “I feel like I have to re-learn basic movements. I am no longer sure of my strength,” Gharat said.A resident of Airoli, Gharat contracted Covid-19 in April as the pandemic’s second wave raged across the country and hospitals struggled to accommodate patients and ensure adequate oxygen supply. Before the infection, Gharat lived a healthy life and she had no comorbidities. Her infection was a severe one: she spent 74 days in hospital, including nearly 50 days in the intensive care unit (ICU). During her hospital stay, Gharat also contracted a fungal infection leading to septicaemia — a secondary infection often seen in severe patients hospitalised for a longer time, or those who have extremely low immunity.Six months after her discharge from the hospital, Gharat is still not healthy.A range of symptomsGharat is a patient of Long Covid, where symptoms linger for weeks or months after the person is Covid negative.Around the world, scientists and medical professionals are trying to pin this down. Starting last year, experts began to use the term to refer to patients who, having recovered from the primary infection, continued to struggle with its after-effects. These were linked to the virus’s ability to impact all organs and body systems.A November 2020 study published in the British Medical Journal that followed up on 201 patients in the United Kingdom stated that “Almost 70% had impairments in one or more organs four months after their initial symptoms of SARS-CoV-2 infection”.Long Covid symptoms occur more frequently in women, middle-aged, and in those with more symptoms initially, according to a World Health Organization (WHO) definition.Here’s what’s confounding the medical experts: Long Covid does not depend on the severity of the infection. It doesn’t manifest uniformly across different people. Little is known about how it varies from other post-viral symptoms, or what parameters should medics use to ascertain it. A Lancet editorial published in August called Long Covid “a modern medical challenge of the first order.”“The effect on society, from the increased health-care burden and economic and productivity losses, is substantial,” it stated.International studies show a high prevalence of post-acute symptoms. For instance, a UK study published in Plos Medicine journal in September looked at electronic health records of 273,618 Covid survivors and found that nearly 57% had one or more Long Covid features recorded during a six-month period.Another research published in The Lancet in July looked at a cohort of 3,762 patients from 56 countries and found that the time to recovery exceeded 35 weeks in almost 91% of the patients. Almost 45% of the patients required a reduced work schedule compared to pre-illness, the study noted.As the virus continues to mutate, cause re-infections and breakthrough infections across the world, there is a growing concern about the medical burden of Long Covid. Survivors and experts have formed advocacy groups to understand the condition in greater depth, many have taken to chronicling their struggle on social media platforms.There is a lack of data on long Covid from India. A tele-interview-based study carried out by Max Super Speciality Hospital among 1000 acute patients in July showed that 40% had Long Covid symptoms — 31.8% had symptoms beyond three months after their discharge from the hospital.There have been varying estimates of the burden of Long Covid from different parts of the world, but once again, data from India, which has recorded over 34.7 million Covid cases, is largely absent. This doesn’t mean that the doctors on ground aren’t confronting it.“Covid-19 not just impacts the lungs but it also attacks other organs in the body, one after another,” said physician Dr Jalil Parker, who treated Gharat at the Bandra’s Lilavati Hospital. In addition to the damage caused by the virus, patients are pumped in with a range of antibiotics, steroids, antiviral medications that put pressure on the kidneys. “Kidney injury among such patients is therefore very common,” said Parker.Parker said that he has seen patients like Gharat with severe Covid grapple with the long-term impact, as well as patients who had mild to moderate Covid, battle fatigue, brain fog, hair loss, anxiety and other symptoms that affect their everyday functions.Some doctors describe Covid’s ability to impact a patient from head to toe — many suffer from what is known as Covid toes, with painful rashes and blisters on them.“At times I feel long-term impact of Covid in a few patients are worse than a cardiac bypass, as the virus has a tendency to affect every organ and function of the body,” said Parker.“When we look at major illnesses in general, the inflammatory parameters in the body tend to be high,” said Dr Anita Mathew, an infectious disease specialist from Fortis Hospital in Mulund. “In Covid, the inflammation is often seen throughout the body and not just within the lungs which the virus affects first. Therefore, the C-reactive protein (CRP) levels are fairly high in many patients,” she said.Mathew has observed such inflammation even in mild Covid patients who turn out to be long haulers.A post-Covid house“This is something different. It’s extremely debilitating,” Gharat said. She offers instances of what’s going on with her: she struggles to grip a cushion and the tips of a bed sheet. She enters the kitchen to give a stir to something cooking on the stove only to realise that she can’t hold on the spatula.Her house is testimony to her post-Covid struggle. Two jumbo oxygen cylinders stand in a corner next to a walker. In another room, a stack of medicines offers a daily reminder of how at the height of her illness, Gharat required two litres of oxygen every minute for nearly three months even after she was discharged. When she started undergoing physiotherapy on her doctor’s advise, her oxygen requirement increased to three litres per minute, for at least 20 hours a day.She was weaned off oxygen therapy in October, but the medication multivitamins, minerals and supplements continues. New ones were added. Gharat was diagnosed with renal hypertension, or high blood pressure caused by kidney disease, soon after her discharge.Unknown medical burdenInfectious disease expert Dr Tanu Singhal, who treats patients at Kokilaben Dhirubhai Ambani Hospital, Andheri, said that tiredness and fatigue are the most common complaints among Long Covid patients.However, not many patients seek help for long Covid. “The problem is not non-existent, but its real burden is unclear,” Singhal said.Dr Om Srivastava, an infectious disease expert and member of Maharashtra’s Covid-19 task force said that long Covid can sometimes be trivialised, but it can make fully functional people redundant. “I have seen patients grappling with facial palsy, unable to swallow food properly, muscle disorders and even involvement of the spine and brain,” he said.Twenty months into the pandemic, it is still hard to define what Covid does to the body, what is the kind of residual damage it leaves behind, said Dr Srivastava. “We will know its true impact only years from now,” he said.Priya Gharat, however, notices the impact of her mother’s condition every day. “She is doing her activities, but not as quickly as she once did,” she said. “Like, getting out of the cab while holding her purse and tiffin bag in one hand is not possible for her. Opening heavy drawers in the office is also difficult,” she said.“Opening the door of the office and the washroom felt as though I was moving a heavy object,” Gharat recalled of her first day back at work earlier this month.Seeing her mother’s experience on her first day, Priya decided to accompany her every day. “I will continue to do so for the remaining month,” she said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/long-covid-range-of-symptoms-medical-burden-101639894995286.html
19-12-2021||India||Conman Sukesh Chandrashekhar took names of Shilpa Shetty, Kartik Aryan, Shraddha Kapoor: ED||The case of ₹200 crore money laundering involving conman Sukesh Chandrashekhar has taken several new twists and turns with new names of Bollywood celebrities coming out every day. While Jacqueline Fernandez and Nora Fatehi received expensive gifts from the conman, it has been learnt that Sukesh was in touch with several Bollywood personalities, as he claimed to ED, news agency ANI reported.Sukesh Chandrashekhar is a conman who used to call people using a spoofing app, impersonating government officials. The ₹200 crore money laundering took place when Sukesh was in Rohini jail in connection with his previous cases. While this revelation led to action against jail officials, it came to the fore that Sukesh has been following the same modus operandi in all his conning cases. Actor Jacqueline Fernandez told ED a similar account that Sukesh told her that he belonged to a political family, owned Sun TV and wanted her to feature in films produced by him.According to an ANI report, Chandrashekhar has named many Bollywood personalities. ED officials will look into the matter of whether these Bollywood personalities were the conman's target or whether they share any connection with Sukesh. Sukesh reportedly told ED that he knew Shradhha Kapoor since 2015 and even helped her in an NCB case. Sukesh also claimed that he was planning to co-produce his next movie 'Captain India' starring Kartik Aryan.When Raj Kundra was in jail in connection with a porn racket case, Sukesh reportedly contacted Shilpa Shetty for Kundra's conditional release.While this particular case of ₹200 crore money laundering took place early this year, Sukesh has several charges against him. His aide Pinky Irani has recently been arrested and revealed that Sukesh had paid her a lot of money to get introduced to Jacqueline.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/conman-sukesh-chandrashekhar-took-names-of-shilpa-shetty-kartik-aryan-shraddha-101639895875724.html
19-12-2021||India||Day after Golden Temple sacrilege ‘bid’, one death, cop says situation peaceful||A day after a man was beaten to death following an alleged attempt to commit sacrilege inside the Golden Temple in Amritsar, police said on Sunday security arrangements have been made on the premises and the situation is peaceful.Assistant commissioner of police (ACP) Sanjeev Kumar said “After yesterday's incident, we have made security arrangements here at Golden Temple. Many Sangats come on weekends... although the situation is peaceful.”Also Read| Man killed over sacrilege in Golden Temple: PoliceOn Saturday evening, the 30-year-old man, a resident of Uttar Pradesh, allegedly stepped inside the sanctum sanctorum of the Golden Temple, picked a sword and reached the area where a priest was reciting the holy Guru Granth Sahib.Amritsar, Punjab | After yesterday's incident, we have made security arrangements here (at Golden Temple). Many Sangats come on weekends... although the situation is peaceful: ACP Sanjeev Kumar https://t.co/k5YiyGF9V2 pic.twitter.com/YQoQ7UQZyX With the live telecast of the prayers at the Golden Temple being underway, the man's actions were caught and he was taken away by members of the Shiromani Gurdwara Parbandhak Committee (SGPC) task force. While the man was being taken to the SGPC office, a group of angry pilgrims grabbed him and thrashed him brutally.Also Watch| 'Conspiracy': How Punjab govt and opposition reacted to sacrilege bid at Golden Temple on Saturday“Before he could go any further, the SGPC employees caught him and took him to the SGPC head office in the Teja Singh Samundri Hall. When the employees were taking him to the office, some of the other devotees present in the shrine beat him up so much that he died on reaching the office," deputy commissioner of police (DCP) PS Bhandal told Hindustan Times on Saturday evening.A large number of devotees and several Sikh outfits hit out at the SGPC for its laxity.Soon after, Punjab chief minister Charanjit Singh Channi directed the administration to thoroughly probe the incident and find the real conspirators.Opposition parties have condemned the incident and sought an immediate investigation into the matter.The Bharatiya Janata Party demanded that the Punjab government handover the probe to the Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI), while the Shiromani Akali Dal (SAD) said there was the possibility of a "deep-rooted conspiracy".||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/day-after-golden-temple-sacrilege-bid-one-death-cop-says-situation-peaceful-101639890727701.html
19-12-2021||India||Chinese national arrested by Sahashtra Seema Bal in Bihar||A 39-year-old Chinese national was arrested by the Sahashtra Seema Bal (SSB) on Saturday from Madhubani’s Madhwapur block in Bihar after he entered India through the Indo-Nepal border without valid documents, officials said.The accused has been identified as Ziyou Jiang Shi, a resident of Fujian province on the Southern coast of China, police said.The SSB authorities handed over the accused to police following an interrogation.The Station House Officer of Madhwapur police station, Gaya Singh, said, an FIR has been registered in this regard and the Chinese national was forwarded to judicial custody. According to information, the accused was arrested near Gandhi Chouk in Madhwapur, at pillar number 295/2 along the Indo-Nepal border. The accused couldn’t produce any valid documents related to his entry into the Indian territory.Sleuths of the special intelligence branch (SIB) interrogated him. Mobile phones and Nepalese visa, along with some other papers were recovered from him, police said. Ministry of External Affairs (MEA) has been conveyed in this regard.In the recent past, the SSB arrested two persons, including a Chinese national during a routine check along the Indo-Nepal Panitanki border near Siliguri in West Bengal in September. Earlier, a 36-year-old Chinese national, Han Junwe, a resident of Hubei in China, was arrested by the BSF when he was trying to enter the country through the Indo-Bangla border in Malda district in June. His interrogation revealed that he had smuggled at least 1,300 Indian mobile phone SIM cards to China over the last two years to commit financial fraud, people familiar with the matter said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/chinese-national-arrested-by-sahashtra-seema-bal-in-bihar-101639894400629.html
19-12-2021||India||India records 7,081 new Covid-19 cases, active caseload down by 652||India's Covid-19 tally jumped to 34,740,275 after the country reported 7,081 cases of infection in the last 24 hours. The active caseload saw a decline of 652 cases and it now stands at 83913, according to the Union ministry of health and family welfare's daily health bulletin. It is the lowest in the last 18 months.With 0.24 per cent, the active cases account for less than 1 per cent of total cases currently, the health ministry also informed.The death toll has climbed to 4,77,422, with 264 daily fatalities, according to the ministry.The 264 new fatalities include 218 from Kerala and 11 from Maharashtra. Kerala has been reconciling Covid deaths for the past few days so the death tally of the state is high.The country also reported steady recoveries as 7,469 people recuperated from the viral infection in the last 24 hours. The number of total Recoveries now stands at 34,178,940, it also said. While the recovery rate is currently at 98.38 per cent, the highest since March 2020.On the vaccination front, the country has administered 3.74 billion vaccine doses as of Saturday evening.The Delhi government on Saturday converted four private hospitals into dedicated centres for the treatment of the new Covid-19 variant Omicron.These four hospitals are Sir Ganga Ram Hospital, Max Hospital in Saket, Fortis Hospital in Vasant Kunj and Batra Hospital in the Tughlakabad area of the national capital.Before this, only the government-run Lok Nayak Jai Prakash (LNJP) hospital was designated for the Omicron treatment.India has so far reported over 100 cases of the Omicron. The country detected its first Omicron case on December 2 in Karnataka.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/india-records-7-081-new-covid-19-cases-active-caseload-down-by-652-101639891966856.html
19-12-2021||India||Section 144 imposed in Kerala's Alappuzha after twin political murders, security beefed up||Following the murders two political leaders in less than a day, prohibitory order of Section 144 under CrPC has been imposed in Alappuzha district of Kerala for two days, district collector A Alexander said on Sunday. Two state-level leaders of the Social Democratic Party of India (SDPI) and Bharatyia Janata Party (BJP) were killed amid growing tensions between the two parties in the region.Clashes ensued in the district after the back to back murders. High vigil is being maintained in the area and senior police officers have been rushed to avert further tensions. It is believed that the second attack was in retaliation to the murder of the SDPI leader state secretary Shan KS.Also Read | Two political murders in under 12 hours shock KeralaTwin murders in a dayThe 38-year-old state secretary of SDPI, a political wing of the Popular Front of India (PFI), was hacked to death by a group of assailants on Saturday morning when he was returning home in Mannacherry on his scooter. According to police reports, Shan KS fell off of his scooter with the first hit and was stabbed multiple times. He succumbed to the injuries on the way to the hospital.The SDPI alleged that Rashtriya Swayamsevak Sangh (RSS) was behind the attack but RSS district leaders denied any role in it.Subsequently, Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) OBC Morcha leader Ranjith Sreenivasan, was brutally murdered allegedly by workers of the SDPI in Palakkad district of Kerala within 12 hours of the first incident. Sreenivasan was on his morning stroll when an eight-member group of assailants waylaid and stabbed him. He died a short while later.Congress leader Ramesh Chennithala has reacted to the incident and blamed the police for recurring political murders. “It seems both are planned killings. Police should give a free hand to investigate such murders,” he said. Kerala chief minister Pinarayi Vijayan has also condemned the two murders in Alappuzha.At least 11 people have been arrested so far in connection with the BJP leader’s death.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/section-144-imposed-in-kerala-s-alappuzha-after-twin-political-murders-security-beefed-up-101639890738689.html
19-12-2021||India||Goa Liberation Day: President Kovind salutes soldiers who fought colonial rule||On the occasion of Goa Liberation Day, President Ram Nath Kovind on Sunday paid his homages to fallen martyrs and freedom fighters who sacrificed their lives in order to free Goa from the colonial role. Paying his respects to the heroes, the President of India also joined the nation in saluting the brave personnel of the armed forces who showed “exemplary courage and valour” in the face of adversities.Posting from his official handle on Twitter, President Kovind shared a few pictures from last year when he attended programmes celebrating 60 years of Goa's independence.“On Goa Liberation Day, the nation pays homage to the martyrs and freedom fighters who fought to liberate Goa from colonial rule,” the President tweeted. “We also salute the exemplary courage & valour of our armed forces. I will forever cherish the memories of Goa@60 celebrations I attended last year.”On Goa Liberation Day, the nation pays homage to the martyrs and freedom fighters who fought to liberate Goa from colonial rule. We also salute the exemplary courage & valour of our armed forces. I will forever cherish the memories of Goa@60 celebrations I attended last year. pic.twitter.com/XXw3Xl11jIGoa Liberation Day is observed on December 19 every year in commemoration of the Indian armed forces freeing Goa from Portuguese colonial rule. Although India attained independence from British rule back in 1947, it would still take Goa – which was a Portuguese colony at the time – 14 more years to be liberated from foreign control. Finally, on December 19, 1961, Indian armed personnel managed to wrest control of Goa from the Portuguese, ending around 450 years of colonial rule.On December 19 each year, various programmes are organised across Goa to mark the Liberation Day celebrations. This year, Prime Minister Narendra Modi is visiting the coastal town to celebrate the completion of six decades of its independence.Prime Minister Modi will be felicitating freedom fighters and veterans of 'Operation Vijay,' the very mission undertaken by the Indian armed forces that liberated Goa from Portuguese rule. Modi will also inaugurate multiple development projects – including the renovated Fort Aguada Jail Museum, Super Speciality Block at Goa Medical College, New South Goa District Hospital, Aviation Skill Development Center at Mopa Airport, and the Gas-insulated Substation at Dabolim-Navelim, Margao, according to a statement by his office.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/goa-liberation-day-president-kovind-salutes-soldiers-who-fought-colonial-rule-101639889638325.html
19-12-2021||India||'Still 2.5 years for Lok Sabha': Shashi Tharoor hopeful of opposition unity||Congress leader Shashi Tharoor is hopeful of opposition unity against the NDA in the 2024 Lok Sabha election and believes that the murmurs in different voices will come together to defeat the BJP. "In politics even one week is a very long time. So there is still two and a half years to go for the next Lok Sabha poll. We are hopeful that those who are speaking in different voices will come together to defeat BJP. The goal is to defeat not just the BJP but also its policies and politics," he said at the sideline of his book launch event on Saturday. Trinamool MP Mimi Chakraborty was present at the book launch event. "My big problem with this government is that there is no good governance for 52 weeks of the year. So having good governance for just one week may not be enough. They (NDA) need to get their act together and serve the entire time of the year and not just once. The problem with this government is that all these (Good Governance Week) are gestures, the politics of symbolism, the politics of slogans. What you need to see is the substance of good governance, which has been missing. All we have is politics of slogans and symbolism.The assertion of the senior Congress leader comes at a time when the Grand Old Party is struggling to retain its old-timers who are crossing over to the Trinamool Congress in hoards. Trinamool Congress supremo Mamata Banerjee in her recent visit to Mumbai even questioned the existence of the UPA. “What is UPA? There is no UPA,” Mamata said pushing forward for a third front without Congress being the guardian. “Considering today’s situation and the ongoing fascism, a strong alternative force is required in the country against it. No one can do it alone. We all need a strong alternative and if someone is not ready to fight, then what can be done,” Banerjee said.Countering Mamata's offensive, Congress president Sonia Gandhi recently called a meeting of the opposition parties to discuss the suspension of 12 MPs in the Rajya Sabha. No invitation was extended to Mamata Banerjee.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/still-2-5-years-for-lok-sabha-shashi-tharoor-hopeful-of-opposition-unity-101639889804640.html
19-12-2021||India||Security of Kannadigas in Maharashtra MVA govt's responsibility: Karnataka CM||Karnataka Chief Minister Basavaraj Bommai on Saturday said that the security of Kannadigas who are settled in Maharashtra is the MVA government's responsibility.Reacting to the recent incident of Belagavi vandalism of Friday night, Bommai said, "Maintaining law and order in Karnataka is our responsibility. Similarly, it is the responsibility of the Maharashtra government to maintain law and order there."Referring to vandalism incidents and of stone-pelting buses and private vehicles, the Chief Minister said, "Our Director General of Police will speak to his counterpart in Maharashtra about the security of Kannadigas there and the attack on buses and private vehicles from Karnataka. Our Home Minister will take up the issue with his Maharashtra counterpart. Then, if necessary, I will speak to the Maharashtra Chief Minister."Notably, Section 144 CrPC has been imposed in Belagavi for two days beginning Sunday morning following protests after reports of vandalisation of statues of Chhatrapati Shivaji and freedom fighter Sangolli Rayanna.Shiv Sena leader Sanjay Raut gave a call for Marathas to unite, to which Bommai said, "Responsible people should never incite anyone under any circumstances.""Chatrapati Shivaji, Sangolli Rayanna and Kitturu Rani Chennamma fought against the British for freedom. They fought to unite the country. We will be doing a disservice to them if we fight to divide society. Nobody should incite the people to take law into their own hands," he added.Tension erupted in Belagavi after a purported video that showed some people pouring black ink on the statue of Chhatrapati Shivaji Maharaj at Sankey Tank Road in Bengaluru went viral.Shiv Sena and Maharashtra Ekikaran Samiti (MES) followers gathered in Belagavi and protested against the Karnataka government at Dharmaveer Sambhaji Maharaj Chowk.The miscreants smashed around 26 vehicles of the Karnataka government and police at Belagavi.The protestors alleged that Kannada goons have defaced a statue of Chhatrapati Shivaji Maharaj in Bangalore.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/kannadigas-security-in-maharashtra-mva-govt-s-responsibility-karnataka-cm-101639887075576.html
19-12-2021||India||Two political murders in under 12 hours shock Kerala||Two state-level leaders of the Social Democratic Party of India (SDPI) and the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) were killed in an apparent retaliatory attack in Alappuzha on Sunday, police said. According to the police, eleven people have been arrested in the BJP leader’s murder case. Some of them are suspected to be directly involved in the case.Tension gripped the district after back to back political murders and senior police officers have rushed to the district to avert further clashes. Two political murders in less than 12 hours shocked the state and prohibitory orders (Section 144) were clamped in the district for two days.SDPI state secretary Shan KS (38) was stabbed to death by an unidentified gang on Saturday night and in less than 12 hours BJP OBC Morcha leader Ranjith Sreenivasan was hacked to death outside his house on Sunday. Police said the BJP leader was out for a morning stroll when an eight-member team of assailants pounced on him and stabbed him. He died on way to the hospital.The SDPI leader was attacked while he was returning home in Mannacherry on his scooter. Assailants who came in a car first hit his two-wheeler and stabbed him repeatedly when he fell down, police said. The victim received multiple fractures and head injuries and later succumbed to his wounds in a private hospital in Ernakulam. He is survived by his wife and two children.Kerala chief minister Pinarayi Vijayan condemned the twin political murders in Alappuzha and said, “the government will not allow anyone to take law into their hands. Such perpetrators will be dealt with sternly”. The SDPI, political wing of the Popular Front of India (PFI), alleged Rashtriyaswayam Sewak Sangh’s (RSS) involvement in the attack but district leaders of the RSS denied any role. “The RSS is trying to create mayhem by eliminating political opponents and silencing minority community members. It is a well planned and executed murder,” said Popular Front state president CP Mohammad Basheer. Police said they have identified the vehicles used in both the attacks. Congress leader Ramesh Chennithalaas asked leaders to rein in their workers and blamed police for recurring political murders. “It seems both are planned killings. Police should give a free hand to investigate such murders,” he said. CPI(M) leader J Chittaranjan, a local legislator, said parties should shed politics of violence.Police said there was no immediate provocation for the SDPI leader’s murder but they suspect it could be a retaliation to the murder of an RSS worker in Vayalar last year. Clashes between RSS and SDPI workers take place regularly in many parts of the state. Last month, an RSS leader was stabbed to death in Palakkad in a similar manner. 
19-12-2021||India||Delhi temperature dips to 4.6 on Sunday morning, Churu freezes at minus 2.6||Delhi witnessed the coldest winter day of this season on Sunday morning as the temperature dipped to 4.6 degree celsius, with the cold spell continuing for the second consecutive day. On Saturday, Delhi witnessed its first cold day of the season with the mercury dipping to 6 degree Celsius. According to IMD, the lowest minimum temperatures recorded at 8.30am on Sunday over the plains of North India are: Churu (minus 2.6), Ganganagar (3.5), Narnaul (1.2), Hissar (2.0), Delhi (Safdarjung) (4.6).According to the IMD, when the minimum temperature is less than or equal to 10 degrees Celsius and the maximum temperature is at least 4.5 degrees Celsius below the normal, it is said to be a 'cold day'.Cold conditions prevailed in the capital owing to a strong, dry northwesterly cold wind which was blowing at 10-20 kmph during the first half of Saturday. The wind speed increased to 25kmph, gusting to 40kmph in the afternoon. The IMD said cold to severe cold wave conditions are likely to continue over some Northwest parts of the country till December 21. Mercury is likely to dip in Punjab, Haryana, north Rajasthan, north Madhya Pradesh and Uttar Pradesh.The high-velocity winds, however, dispersed fog and led to better visibility in the Capital. At the airport, visibility improved from 200-400 metres at around 8.30am to 1,800-2,000 metres in the afternoon, local officials said. There was dense to light fog in other parts of northwest India.“In many cities north of Delhi, temperatures fell below zero degrees. Since we are receiving winds from that side, it is pushing Delhi’s temperatures down,” said Mahesh Palawat, vice-president at private forecaster Skymet Weather Services. “The forecast is that temperatures will fall in the next two days, and under the impact of a fresh western disturbance on December 21-22, there will be a marginal increase.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/delhi-temperature-dips-to-4-6-on-sunday-morning-churu-freezes-at-minus-26-101639886596971.html
19-12-2021||India||Chopper crash: Brigadier Lidder's daughter back on Twitter, tells why she left||Brigadier Lakhwinder Singh Lidder was among the 13 defence personnel who lost their lives in the unfortunate copter crash in Tamil Nadu on December 8. As his family members performed the last rites, the exceptional bravery of his daughter Aashna Lidder was noticed and lauded. It came to be known that the 17-year-old has written a poem book 'In Search of a Title', the foreword of which was written by General Bipin Rawat, who also lost his life in the chopper crash. Lidder was reportedly trolled for her political ideology and on the day of her father's last rites, she deactivated her Twitter account. Gratitude surges through me as I thank the nation for mourning the loss of my father with us... The biggest consolation I have is it, isn't my loss alone, it's our loss. Had de-activated my twitter on my own, to spend time with family and away from any distraction.Several political leaders including Sena's Priyanka Chaturvedi, Congress' Karti Chidambaram slammed the trolling. On Saturday, Aashna Lidder was back on Twitter and said that she had deactivated her Twitter on her own, to spend time with family, away from any distraction. "Gratitude surges through me as I thank the nation for mourning the loss of my father with us... The biggest consolation I have is it, isn't my loss alone, it's our loss. Had de-activated my Twitter on my own, to spend time with family and away from any distraction," she tweeted.To this, Priyanka Chaturvedi replied with her tweet, "Wish you strength and courage! Shine on. Happy to see you back on Twitter..!"Her father was the hero and best friend, Aashna said as she bade a tearful adieu to Brigadier Lidder. She also expressed happiness and gratitude that she got to spend 17 years of her life with her father. "I am going to be 17. So, he was with me for 17 years, we will go ahead with happy memories. It is a national loss. My father was a hero, my best friend. Maybe it was destined and better things will come our way. He was my biggest motivator," Aashna had said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/chopper-crash-brigadier-lidder-s-daughter-back-on-twitter-says-why-she-left-101639884279229.html
19-12-2021||India||Centre set to launch ‘Good Governance Week’ on Monday, to reach out from cities to villages||The Centre is all set to launch a nationwide 'Good Governance Week' from December 20 to December 26, with the motto to redress and dispose of public grievances and improvise service delivery down to the village level, according to the Department of Administrative Reforms and Public Grievance (DARPG). Various events will be convened during the week under the campaign titled “Prashasan Gaon Ki Aur” aimed to be citizen-focused.DARPG in collaboration with the Department of Personnel and Training (DoPT), Department of Pension & Pensioners' Welfare, Department for Promotion of Industry and Internal Trade, Ministry of External Affairs, and Ministry of Panchayati Raj and Rural Development will be convening the events throughout the week.The other events include Good Governance in Ministry of External Affairs; Ease of Living and Next Phase of Reforms for Reducing Compliance Burden; Mission Karmayogi - The Path Ahead; Experience Sharing Workshop by DARPG on Best Practices in Initiative for Increasing Efficiency in Decision Making; and Good Governance Day celebration by DARPG and inauguration of Exhibition on good governance practices.WhatsApp groups have been created with state authorities which will be monitored by the Centre’s portal for the same. A ‘Good Governance Index’ will be launched on December 25.Earlier on Tuesday, Prime Minister Narendra Modi held a meeting with the chief ministers and deputy CMs of BJP-ruled states and shared good governance initiatives from their respective states.The campaign will be inaugurated by Union minister of state for personnel Jitendra Singh on Monday."The good governance week will start from Monday. A series of programmes are planned to highlight various good governance initiatives taken by the Centre during the week. The main theme of the campaign is to take good governance to the rural areas," the minister said.Notably, December 25 is celebrated as ‘Good Governance Day’ to mark the birth anniversary of former Prime Minister Atal Bihari Vajpayee.This year’s ‘Good Governance week’ would symbolize the strides made by India in promoting citizen centric governance and improving service delivery in consonance with Azadi ka Amrut Mahotsav celebrations to commemorate 75 years of progressive India.(With Agency inputs)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/centre-set-to-launch-good-governance-week-on-monday-to-reach-out-from-cities-to-villages-101639884674418.html
19-12-2021||India||News updates from HT: Omicron looms large in Britain as cases surge and all the latest news||Here are today’s top news, analysis and opinion. Know all about the latest news and other news updates from Hindustan Times.Omicron looms large in Britain: Cases surge in 24 hours, London rings the alarmThe Omicron variant of the SARS-Cov-2 coronavirus is spreading at a remarkable pace in the United Kingdom (UK). According to British government data, a marked surge in cases was reported in a span of mere 24 hours. Read moreOn raising marriage age for girls to 21, Chidambaram has an adviceSenior Congress leader P Chidambaram extended support to the proposal of raising the legal age of marriage from 18 to 21 years but said teh amended law should not come into force before January 1, 2023. Read moreCan you safely enjoy holidays? Experts offer tips to protect against Covid-19The Delta and Omicron variants of the coronavirus are trying to spoil the holiday spirit, but there still are ways to enjoy the festivities. Read more'Lucknow franchise is making all the right moves': Aakash predicts 3 big IPL stars as their draft picks for 2022 seasonFormer Indian cricketer Aakash Chopra has been left mighty impressed with the "right moves" made by the Lucknow franchise ahead of the 2022 season of the Indian Premier League (IPL). Read moreKatrina Kaif gives glimpse of her honeymoon destination with new mehendi pic, fans try to find Vicky Kaushal's nameKatrina Kaif shared a picture of her wedding mehendi in a new Instagram post. The actor, who married Vicky Kaushal earlier this month, seemed to have taken off to a beach destination post their wedding in Rajasthan. See hereMalaika Arora is ultra-sexy in two glam dresses as she serves holiday fashion goals: All pics insideHolidays are right around the corner, which means many of us are gearing up for a safe Christmas and New Year's Eve get-together with our friends and family. See hereCovid Omicron spreading faster with cases doubling in 1.5 to 3 days, says WHOWorld Health Organisation has said that the Omicron coronavirus variant has been reported in 89 countries and the number of cases is doubling in 1.5 to 3 days in areas with community transmission. Watch here||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/news-updates-from-ht-omicron-looms-large-in-britain-as-cases-surge-and-all-the-latest-news-101639883000020.html
19-12-2021||India||PM Modi in Goa today, to attend liberation day celebrations||Prime Minister Narendra Modi is scheduled to visit Goa on Sunday for the celebrations marking the union territory's liberation day. During the event, PM Modi will felicitate the freedom fighters and veterans of 'Operation Vijay,' a mission undertaken by the Indian Armed Forces that liberated Goa from Portuguese rule.The Prime Minister will also inaugurate multiple development projects including the renovated Fort Aguada Jail Museum, Super Speciality Block at Goa Medical College, New South Goa District Hospital, Aviation Skill Development Center at Mopa Airport and the Gas-insulated Substation at Dabolim-Navelim, Margao, according to a statement by his office.PM Modi will also lay the foundation stone for the India International University of Legal Education and Research of Bar Council of India Trust at Goa.On the occasion, PM Modi will release a special cover and special cancellation to mark the commemoration of the Indian Armed Forces freeing Goa from Portuguese rule. This special episode of history is shown on the special cover, whereas the special cancellation depicts the war memorial at Indian Naval Ship Gomantak, constructed in memory of seven young gallant sailors and other personnel who laid down their lives in "Operation Vijay," according to the PMO statement.Before the official event at Dr Shyama Prasad Mukherjee Stadium in Goa's Taleigao, PM Modi will also visit Martyr's Memorial in Panaji to pay floral tributes. At around 2:30pm, he will attend the Sail Parade and flypast at Miramar, Panaji, the PMO informed.Goa Liberation Day is observed on December 19 every year in India and it marks the day Indian armed forces freed Goa in 1961 following 450 years of Portuguese rule. The Portuguese colonised several parts of India in 1510 but by the end of the 19th-century Portuguese colonies in India were limited to Goa, Daman, Diu, Dadra, Nagar Haveli and Anjediva Island.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/pm-modi-in-goa-today-to-attend-liberation-day-celebrations-101639884169173.html
19-12-2021||India||On raising marriage age for girls to 21, Chidambaram has an advice||Senior Congress leader P Chidambaram extended support to the proposal of raising the legal age of marriage from 18 to 21 years but said teh amended law should not come into force before January 1, 2023. 2022 should be used for an educational campaign explaining to people the benefits of marrying only after a boy or a girl attain the age of 21 years. "There is a debate on the wisdom of raising the age of marriage to 21 for girls and making it the same as it is for boys. My view is that the age of marriage should be common for both girls and boys at 21 years. But the amended law should come into force on 1-1-2023 or later. The year 2022 should be used for a massive educational campaign on the benefits of marrying only after a boy or girl attained the age of 21 years," Chidambaram said.But the amended law should come into force on 1-1-2023 or laterThe year 2022 should be used for a massive educational campaign on the benefits of marrying only after a boy or girl attained the age of 21 yearsThe Union Cabinet is believed to have cleared a proposal to bring uniformity in the marriageable age of men and women. The government is likely to bring a bill in the ongoing Winter Session of Parliament to amend the Prohibition of Child Marriage Act, 2006. The proposed bill may also seek to make consequential changes to various personal laws relating to the marriage of different communities to ensure a uniform marriage age, reports said.As of now, the legal age of women to get married is 18 while that for men is 21 years.The proposal, however, has already courted controversies. AIMIM president and Lok Sabha MP Asaduddin Owaisi slammed the proposal and said both men and women should be allowed to legally marry at 18 as they're treated as adults by the law for all other purposes."Modi government has decided to increase the age of marriage for women to 21. This is typical paternalism that we have come to expect from the govt. 18-year-old men and women can sign contracts, start businesses, choose Prime Ministers and elect MPs and MLAs but not marry? They can consent to sexual relationships and live-in partnerships but cannot choose their life partners? Just ridiculous," said AIMIM chief.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/on-raising-marriage-age-for-girls-to-21-chidambaram-has-an-advice-101639878442013.html
19-12-2021||India||Wrestler wants to contest despite being over-age, BJP MP slaps; video goes viral||A video of a BJP MP purportedly slapping a wrestler at the stage of a sporting event in Ranchi has gone viral on social media. The incident took place during the first round of the Under-15 National Wrestling Championship at Shaheed Gannpat Rai Indoor Stadium in Ranchi. Uttar Pradesh MP Brij Bhushan Sharan Singh, who is also the president of the Wrestling Federation of India, was present at the event. The championship was concluded on Friday. It is believed that the slapping incident might have taken place during the inaugural day.The wrestler was from UP and was not allowed to take part in the wrestling event as he was over-age for the event. But as he persuaded the MP for allowing him to take part, the MP lost his cool and slapped the wrestler twice, after which the wrestler was removed from the stage. JHARKHAND:Fresh shocker from the BJP!BJP MP & Wrestling Federation of India President, Brij Bhushan Sharan Singh slaps young wrestler on stage.Can a public servant (BJP MP) manhandle the common man? What message the BJP is sending to the country? pic.twitter.com/EwQ4LR1FAEJharkhand Wrestling Association reportedly said they do not have any details of the wrestler as he was not allowed to participate in the event.The MP defended his action and said it was a case of age fraud. "This boy came over to the stage and urged to take part in the championship while he was found guilty of age fraud. I didn't allow him and politely told him to go down from the stage as we already disqualified 5 more wrestlers who were found guilty of doing age fraud and all they belong from UP, not only from UP, I didn't allow any player who is over age whether he belongs from Delhi, Haryana or any state, If I start doing this on basis of states then I can't develop wrestling in country," Singh told ANI."Our president clearly told that he cannot take part in this but he starts misbehaving with him and starts arguing to let him allow to play as he belongs to his own state UP but he clearly denied him by saying if he allows him to play then he has to give immunity to other states wrestlers," Vindo Tomar, secretary, Wrestling Federation of India, said.(With agency inputs)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/wrestler-wants-to-contest-despite-being-over-age-bjp-mp-slaps-video-goes-viral-101639875507490.html
19-12-2021||India||Ahead of UP polls, BJP to launch ‘Jan Vishwas Yatra’ today||The Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) will on Sunday launch five different ‘Jan Vishwas Yatra’ from different parts of Uttar Pradesh in an attempt to extend its outreach to the public ahead of the 2022 assembly polls. According to party functionaries familiar with the matter, the five campaigns will be flagged off by veteran BJP leaders – including the state's chief minister Yogi Adityanath and several Union ministers – from Bijnor, Mathura, Jhansi, Bundelkhand, Ambedkarnagar, and Ballia. The sixth and final yatra will be launched tomorrow i.e. December 20 from Ghazipur.Also Read | UP+Yogi, bahut upyogi: PM Modi praises Adityanath in poll-bound stateBJP lawmaker Vidya Sagar Sonker, the in-charge of these yatras, told Hindustan Times, “The campaign will cover all 403 assembly constituencies of the state.”According to news agencies, the first campaign will be inaugurated by BJP national president JP Nadda from Ambedkarnagar in eastern Uttar Pradesh after he addresses a public meeting in the town, also the birthplace of Dr Ram Manohar Lohia. Nadda will be accompanied by Union ministers Dharmendra Pradhan and Kaushal Kishor.This yatra will end at Kakori in Lucknow after passing through Ayodhya, Gonda, Balrampur, Shravasti, Bahraich, Sitapur, Hardoi, Unnao, Rae Bareli, and Barabanki.The second yatra one will be flagged off by the chief minister, Yogi Adityanath, from Mathura in Braj. It will end in Bareilly after covering Aligarh, Etah, Mainpuri, Agra, Hathras, Firozabad, Kasganj, Badaun, Shahjahanpur, and Pilibhit.The third Jan Vishwas Yatra, commencing from Jhansi in Bundelkhand and concluding in Kanpur, will be flagged off by defence minister Rajnath Singh. It will pass through Lalitpur, Mahoba, Chitrakoot, Fatehpur, Hamirpur, Jalaun, Auraiya, Kanpur Dehat, and Farrukhabad.The fourth yatra will start from Bidurkoti in Bijnor and will be inaugurated with an address by former BJP national president and Union minister Nitin Gadkari. It will conclude in Rampur after passing through Muzaffarnagar, Saharanpur, Baghpat, Shamli, Ghaziabad, Gautam Buddh Nagar, Bulandshahr, Hapur, Amroha, Moradabad, and Sambhal.Also Read | Ahead of UP polls, Modi lays ₹36k-cr expressway stoneMadhya Pradesh chief minister Shivraj Singh Chouhan will inaugurate the fifth journey from Ballia in eastern Uttar Pradesh; the campaign will conclude in Basti after covering Mau, Azamgarh, Deoria, Kushinagar, Maharajganj, Siddharthnagar, and Sant Kabir Nagar.The sixth and final phase of the Jan Vishwas Yatra will be inaugurated by Union women and child development minister Smriti Irani. The drive will commence at Ghazipur, also in eastern UP, and conclude in her own Parliamentary constituency of Amethi after passing through Sonbhadra, Mirzapur, Prayagraj, Kaushambi, Bhadohi, Varanasi, Jaunpur, and Sultanpur.“We are connecting with the people and would tell them about our government’s achievements,” the yatra-in-charge said while speaking of the unique campaign in the run-up to the UP polls. According to BJP functionaries, the decision to conduct these yatras was taken earlier this month in a meeting chaired by Sunil Bansal, the party's state general secretary (organisation).Uttar Pradesh is slated to go to assembly polls early next year.In the 2017 assembly elections in Uttar Pradesh, the BJP had bagged 312 seats out of the 403-seat Uttar Pradesh assembly while the Samajwadi Party (SP) bagged 47 seats, the Bahujan Samaj Party (BSP) won 19 and Congress could manage to retain only seven seats. The rest of the seats were bagged by other candidates.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/ahead-of-up-polls-bjp-to-launch-jan-vishwas-yatra-today-101639872390981.html
19-12-2021||India||Why breathing difficulty is unlikely a symptom of Omicron variant, AIIMS doctor explains||With a sharp spike in the number of Omicron cases recorded in India in the last few days, the total tally of Omicron cases is nearing 150 even before a month of the variant first getting detected in India. The number also depends on the number of samples being sent for genome sequencing as health experts have pointed out that genome sequencing is not a diagnostic tool, it is a surveillance and pandemic assessment and tracking tool. "We can assure sufficient systematic sampling is being undertaken," Niti Aayog (health) member Dr VK Paul said.Symptoms of Covid infection by this variant also hold a key to better understand the variant as its symptoms are quite different from Covid infection triggered by Delta.With a sharp spike in the number of Omicron cases recorded in India in the last few days, the total tally of Omicron cases is nearing 150 even before a month of the variant first getting detected in India. The number also depends on the number of samples being sent for genome sequencing as health experts have pointed out that genome sequencing is not a diagnostic tool, it is a surveillance and pandemic assessment and tracking tool. "We can assure sufficient systematic sampling is being undertaken," Niti Aayog (health) member Dr VK Paul said.Symptoms of Covid infection by this variant also hold a key to better understand the variant as its symptoms are quite different from Covid infection triggered by Delta.|#+|Omicron spread: Scientists identify 1 symptom that confirms presence of variantExplaining the difference, AIIMS' Dr Punnet Musra, professor of community medicine, said it is natural that different variants will have different predominant symptoms. Omicron does not cause breathing trouble as unlike the previous variants, this variant is probably not multiplying in the lungs. Hence, its impact on the lungs is minimal. As cases from all across the world indicate that throat is somewhat getting affected, it is likely that the variant is multiplying in the throat. One is unlikely to get severe pneumonia by Omicron, the doctor said.Omicron-driven third wave likely to arrive early next year, peak in Feb: Covid Supermodel panel5 top developments regarding Omicron across the world1. London has announced an emergency over the spread of the Omicron variant.2. European nations are bringing back lockdown measures ahead of the Christmas, New Year festive season. The Netherlands has already decided to go into lockdown.3. World Health Organization has noted that the variant is doubling at least every 3 days, which means the cases are becoming double in 3 days.4. India may witness a third wave of the pandemic, driven by Omicron, early next year, Covid-19 supermodel community has predicted. However, the third wave will be less severe than the second wave, it has been projected.5. As of now, 89 countries have this variant and it has infected people with even three doses of vaccination against Covid.(With agency inputs)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/why-breathing-difficulty-is-unlikely-a-symptom-of-omicron-variant-aiims-doctor-explains-101639873292097.html
19-12-2021||India||India, Tajikistan hold talks on Afghan crisis||The situation in Afghanistan, regional security, trade and connectivity figured in a meeting between external affairs minister S Jaishankar and his Tajikistan counterpart Sirojiddin Muhriddin in New Delhi on Saturday.Muhriddin is on a three-day visit to India and will join his counterparts from Kazakhstan, Kyrgyzstan, Turkmenistan and Uzbekistan for the India-Central Asia Dialogue on Sunday. The Afghanistan crisis is expected to be discussed at the dialogue.In his opening remarks at the meeting with Muhriddin, Jaishankar said India and Tajikistan, as neighbours of Afghanistan, “have been very concerned at the developments there”. A statement from the Tajik foreign ministry said the two discussed the security situation in the region.Also read | Afghanistan: Taliban leaders appeal for help as migrant crisis loomsJaishankar thanked Tajikistan for the “tremendous support that you gave us during the evacuation of Indians from Afghanistan in August and September”.“Productive discussions with my friend, Tajik FM Sirojiddin Muhriddin... Valued his insights on regional developments,” he tweeted after the meeting.
19-12-2021||India||30 new cases of Omicron variant in India push national tally to 145||With 30 new infections of the Omicron variant detected across India on Saturday — 12 in Telangana, eight in Maharashtra, six in Karnataka, and four in Kerala — India saw, for the third consecutive day, the highest single-day rise in cases of the heavily mutated virus, pushing the national tally to 145.On Friday, there were 26 new Omicron cases in the country, while the tally was 14 on Thursday. On both Tuesday and Wednesday, there were 12 cases.Omicron cases have been detected in 12 of India’s regions – Maharashtra has reported 48 cases, Delhi has seen 22, Telangana has reported 20, Rajasthan has 17, Karnataka has 14, Kerala 11, Gujarat has seen seven, Uttar Pradesh two, and one each in Andhra Pradesh, Chandigarh, Tamil Nadu, and West Bengal.Earlier on Sunday, health officials in Uttar Pradesh confirmed that the state had detected its first two cases a day earlier (on Saturday) when a couple tested positive in Ghaziabad. “Contact tracing of nearly 100 people was conducted, and no further infections were found,” said UP additional chief secretary Amit Mohan Prasad.The 12 new cases detected in Telangana were all among international passengers, officials said, adding that the reports of genome sequencing of samples from three more is awaited. “Of them, six persons came from Kenya, two each from Somalia and the UAE and one each from Ghana and Tanzania,” local officials said.Maharashtra reported eight new Omicron infections, officials said, adding that 28 of these have already recovered. Four these were in flyers at Mumbai airport — three had arrived from African countries and one from the UK. Three others were a couple from Satara in west Maharashtra and their 13-year-old daughter, who had recently returned from Uganda. The final was a 17-year-old girl from Pune who contact history with another international traveller, officials said.Meanwhile, officials in Karnataka said that of the six cases detected on Sunday, one was a passenger who returned from the UK, while the remaining five were detected in two clusters in Dakshina Kannada district.Kerala’s Omicron tally touched 11 when genome sequencing showed that four international travellers — a 17-year-old from the UK, a 44-year-old from Tunisia, a 37-year-old from Tanzania, and a 49-year-old from Kenya – had been infected with the Omicron variant of Sars-CoV-2.(With inputs from PTI)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/30-new-cases-of-omicron-variant-in-india-push-national-tally-to-145-101639865239872.html
19-12-2021||India||Shah says India recovering from Covid-19, hails PM Modi||India is steadily recovering from the Covid-19 pandemic although the situation is fluctuating in many countries, home minister Amit Shah said on Saturday.“Many governments fought against Covid-19 in the world, but in India, Prime Minister Narendra Modi ensured that people would join the government’s fight against the pandemic. Even at present, many countries are reporting ups and down in Covid-19 cases, but India is steadily coming out of it,” Shah said at the National Awards for Excellence in Corporate Governance 2021 organised by the Institute of Company Secretaries of India in Mumbai.“When the entire world was wary about India because of the comparatively weak health infrastructure, the government under the leadership of Prime Minister Modi fought the battle effectively. This could happen because we joined hands with the 130 crore people of the country. India was the only country in the world which saw people standing by the Prime Minister when he gave the call of Janata curfew,” he said.Calling India’s growth as it emerges from an economy ravaged by Covid-19 “promising”, the home minister said the following year will see “double-digit” growth. “The current growth rate is in a single-digit, but I can assure you all that it would be in a double-digit by March 2022. It is because we were trying to win the war against Covid-19 but the economic reforms that we had envisioned would need to overcome various challenges posed by the pandemic,” Shah said, attributing it to steps taken by the central government.“These two years, 2020 and 2021, will prove important in economic history as the period 25 to 50 years from today will be divided in pre- and post-Covid era. The growth we could achieve today is because of the economic policies undertaken by the government,” he said.India’s national vaccination programme has changed the course of the pandemic, Shah said. “Today when the graph of the Covid-19 cases in many countries is moving upward and downward, India is moving steady towards endemic stage,” he said.At another event earlier in the day, in a veiled attack on the Maharashtra Vikas Aghadi (MVA) government in the state, he said, “I have seen some state governments are not giving bank guarantees to sugar mills whose management is politically linked to opposition parties.”Countering Shah, Maharashtra cooperation minister Balasaheb Patil said: “We have been treating all the sugar factories equally when it comes to giving bank guarantees. We have given it to sugar factories under Bharatiya Janata Party leaders including Pankaja Munde.”(With inputs from agencies)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/shah-says-india-recovering-from-covid-19-hails-pm-modi-101639864772868.html
19-12-2021||India||Two Maoists gunned down in Chhattisgarh||Security forces on Saturday gunned down two women Maoists, collectively carrying a cash reward of ₹6 lakh reward, in an encounter in Chhattisgarh’s Bastar region, officials familiar with the matter said.“A team of District Reserve Guard (DRG) was out on an anti-Naxal operation, in Aranpur area, when at around 5.30 am, in a forest near Gonderas village, the encounter started,” Dantewada superintendent of police, Abhishek Pallava, said.After the encounter ended , bodies of two Maoists, Hidme Kohrame and Pojje, were recovered, police said.
19-12-2021||India||France to jointly make aero engines in India: Singh at industry event||France has agreed to jointly manufacture aero engines in India under the government’s strategic partnership model to boost self-reliance in the defence manufacturing sector, defence minister Rajnath Singh said on Saturday.“A big French company will manufacture an engine in India, thus far not made in the country, in collaboration with an Indian firm,” Singh said at an event organised by the Federation of Indian Chambers of Commerce and Industry. His comments coming a day after he held the 3rd annual defence dialogue with his French counterpart Florence Parly.Singh did not divulge details of the proposed cooperation with France. Aircraft engines are a glaring capability gap in India’s defence manufacturing sector, with major indigenous flying platforms equipped with imported engines.The strategic partnership model Singh referred to is an important element of the country’s defence procurement procedure, and seeks to provide fillip to the government’s Make in India programme. It aims at bringing high-end military technology into the country, and lays down the template for partnership between Indian companies and foreign military contractors to build advanced platforms.The current reforms undertaken by the government will help the Indian defence and aerospace sector clock a turnover of ₹5 trillion by 2047, compared to the current ₹850 billion, the defence minister said.The steps taken by the government to boost indigenisation include increasing foreign direct investment limit from 49% to 74%, notifying two lists of 209 weapons and systems that cannot be imported and creating a separate budget for buying locally made military hardware.“For the security of India, it is necessary that we develop our defence capacity and capability (to a level) that even the most powerful country in the world has to think a thousand times before planning anything that endangers our interests. Our government’s aim is not to attack anyone, but prepare our armed forces to be ready at all times to give a befitting reply to the country’s enemies,” he said.Referring to the recent deal with Russia to build assault rifles in the country, Singh said the government was focused on Make in India, Make for India and Make for the world. India and Russia on December 6 concluded a much-awaited ₹5,100-crore deal for the joint production of more than 600,000 AK-203 assault rifles at a facility in UP’s Amethi district.
19-12-2021||India||Beginning Dec 22, Nitish Kumar to start state-wide social reforms yatra||With the Opposition and the allies alike raising questions over Bihar’s biggest social reform initiative of ‘prohibition’, which is into its sixth year despite unabated challenges of smuggling, Chief Minister Nitish Kumar is set for what has been his trademark all through his long stint as CM - to be in the midst of people to get direct feedback, create awareness and review governance and development work.Staring December 22, a day after the last cabinet meeting of the year in Valmikinagar, Kumar, known for embarking on state-wide visits through his well-drafted ‘yatras’ attached with a cause that the masses can identify with, will be on ‘social reforms yatra‘ from Motihari in East Champaran to tell the people about the benefits of prohibition. He imposed prohibition responding to the call of women ahead of the 2015 assembly elections.The yatra, according to a cabinet coordination department notification, will cover one district each in six divisions and two districts each in three divisions. Kumar will also address public rallies in all the divisions and all the districts falling under the division will attend it. The yatra will culminate on January 15 with Patna and Nalanda programmes. The strong force of woman volunteers of the Jeevika self-help groups will participate in the CM’s programme, besides others.On Friday, Kumar said in Madhubani while launching a ₹731-crore worth project for construction of a barrage over Kamla Balan river and other flood protection work, that he would be on his ‘yatra’ till January 15 to make people understand the rationale of prohibition, how it is directly linked to their well-being and that of the society and why public awakening was a prerequisite for state’s meaningful progress. “I know that barring a small percentage, most people welcome prohibition. Women are a happy lot and it has restored family bliss,” he added, exhorting women to use their empowerment in the last one decade to keep a vigil on illicit liquor manufacturers and traders so that wrongdoers could be nabbed.But it is not just about prohibition, which Kumar does not feel the need to back out from. Also on his agenda are two other big social reforms initiatives which he initiated - anti-dowry and anti-child marriage campaigns. Besides, all through his yatra he will review the agriculture, development and welfare programmes with top officials and seek direct feedback from the people on governance issues, including law and order. All the officials have been asked to be ready with facts and figures for the review meetings. The local people’s representatives and in-charge ministers will also be present at the review meetings.In 2019 December, his last state-wide tour ahead of the 2020 assembly elections, he had embarked ‘Jal-Jeevan-Hariyali Yatra’ to champion the environmental cause and feel the pulse of the masses. That had started from Bettiah in West Champaran. 
19-12-2021||India||‘You have my gratitude’: Irani pays tribute to soldiers, families||Union women and child development minister Smriti Irani paid a heartfelt tribute to soldiers and their families while acknowledging that the sacrifices made by them are rarely acknowledged. She was speaking at a literature festival organised by the Army Wives Welfare Association on Friday.“Today as a civilian, I am here to say sorry that we do not look at you till such time when a challenge comes upon the country. You not only have my apology but my gratitude on behalf of every Indian,” the minister said.She was paying homage to chief of defence staff (CDS) General Bipin Rawat, his wife Madhulika and 12 others, who were killed in a helicopter crash.“We see you only when you step up to take the posthumous honour... We salute you and shower you with petals when a man in uniform comes back home in a box... We, as civilians, presume it’s a given that you’ve chosen to serve the armed forces... For that, you have my apology,” she added.
19-12-2021||India||Congress, Goa Forward Party seal alliance ahead of Goa elections||PANAJI: The Congress and the Goa Forward Party (GFP) on Saturday said they have formed an alliance to fight elections to 40-member state assembly in February-March next year. The alliance would jointly take on the ruling Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) in the forthcoming elections in the coastal state, Dinesh Gundu Rao, All India Congress Committee (AICC) member in-charge of Goa, said at a media briefing. “The Congress and the Goa Forward Party have entered into an alliance for the forthcoming Goa assembly elections. After (GFP chief) Vijai Sardesai met our leader Rahul Gandhi in Delhi and expressed his support to the Congress, saying he wants to work with us to defeat the communal and corrupt BJP government in Goa and to bring about a change in the state, we welcomed his move,” Rao said. “We ironed out whatever small issues were there between us, and we are looking at a new beginning.” Notably, the GFP had earlier shared power with the BJP in Goa, but withdrew support in July 2019 after all three of its legislators, including party president Sardesai, who was then deputy chief minister in the Pramod Sawant-led government, were dropped from the cabinet. The alliance will liberate the state from the “autocratic government,” Sardesai said. “There is a need for like-minded people to team up. This is the team Goa. We will liberate Goa and give Goans justice.” He added that political strategists are of the opinion that any political alternative in Goa cannot be envisaged without the Congress as the principal opposition. “The entire public of Goa is against this government. But elected representatives are surprisingly joining it because of the high-handedness of the central leadership of the party… We will defeat these forces.” Goa BJP spokesperson Urfan Mulla, however, questioned the state Congress chief’s change of mind to join hands with the GFP.“State Congress president Girish Chodankar needs to explain how he changed his mind after repeatedly insisting that the Congress will not align with the Goa Forward Party and having accused the party of betraying the mandate and other misdeeds. The people of Goa will show this unholy alliance the door,” Mulla added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/congress-goa-forward-party-seal-alliance-ahead-of-goa-elections-101639857852087.html
19-12-2021||India||The two musical towers of Bangalore||Bengaluru: In the letters to his father, Mozart referred to the pipe organ as ‘’the king of instruments”. The characterisation clung ever since to this big, complex, expensive and mystifying musical instrument. Over centuries several of such “kings of instruments” have been created, used and preserved, mostly by churches.In Bengaluru, a wish to hear an organ would take you to two churches – St Mark’s Cathedral and St Andrew’s church -- which continue to preserve the only organ pianos from the pre-independence era.The huge pipe organ in St Mark’s Cathedral off MG Road is in startlingly original condition, though some parts of the instrument, a bit worse for the 93 years of wear and tear, have been restored. Avinash Grubb is so accustomed to showing off the abilities of this marvel of an instrument that he can explain the instrument even while using all four of his limbs to play a hymn or two -- his hands play keyboard while his feet dance on the foot pedals.It was in 2004, Grubb took over from David Sebastian, the former organist at St Mark’s Cathedral. But before that, at the age of 18, Grubb began training under Sebastian to play the instrument. As much as playing music, he is passionate about the history that comes with the organ pipe.The foundation stone of church was laid in 1808, and construction was completed in 1812. But on 17 February 1923, the church building was ravaged by fire. Reconstruction of the church started in 1926 and was completed in 1928.In the year 1929, the pipe organ was installed. “The pipe organ was as a gift by Avis Cowdrey of the Cowdrey family (father of cricketer Michael Colin Cowdrey). The organ is designed by two British builders, with only the metal pipes being built in England, while other parts were built in Bangalore. The cost of construction then was ₹80,000, which was a large sum for that era,” said Grubb.“The name pipe organ comes with the fact that it is a wind instrument and the pipes produce the music. The keyboard has 61 notes and there is a pipe for each corresponding note. Now the pipes, the eight pipes are sound on the pitch, four feet will one octave higher, two feet pipes will two octaves higher and you 16 feet pipes which one octave lower. Essentially, we are playing at multiple octaves at the same time, which is not possible on any other instrument,” he explained.One of the important parts of the instrument is the reservoir of air, which help produce the music. In the earlier days, three to four men had to pump wind with organ bellows while the instrument was played to produce the required wind, but when the organ was installed at St Mark’s Cathedral, a motor was brought in from the United Kingdom for the job, which remains even till date.It is very difficult to master the art of playing the organ. It requires all the senses on alert to hear the sound and maintain a simultaneous motion of the hands and feet, and most importantly to keep an eye on the choir. For this, there are three mirrors. The pianist facing the massive instrument can keep an eye on the priest, co-conductor and in case of the marriage at the bride walking towards the altar, with these three mirrors.Even the music played on the organ piano keeps the heritage of the instrument in mind, said Grubb while discussing the responsibility that comes with playing an instrument with such historic value. “We follow the Gregorian chants, which symbolises solemnity and reverence. Even though singing the churches have changed over time, we have kept this century-old tradition. Moreover, our choir sings a lot of music that be accompanied by the organ piano. Organ music is very difficult to play with the choir because it is classical music, but we continue that tradition because of the heritage we have with us,” he said.Just a few kilometres away from St Mark’s Cathedral, overlooking the South Parade ground, is a magnificent structure – St Andrew’s church. The church, which celebrated its 150th anniversary in November 2014, was started on 18 November 1866. Initially, it was started for Scottish officers, the British Madras Army and civilians of Scottish origin. Kannada services began in 1965.The church with a Scottish heritage is frequented by musicians, artists and architects. Apart from the gothic architecture and beautiful stained glass, the church houses an elegant 140-year-old pipe organ. This old pipe organ, called the ‘great little monster’ of St. Andrew’s Church, was installed by builders Peter Gonacher and Co. in 1881. this is the oldest pipe organ in the city.According to the old-timers of the church, during the British era, the music from the organ could be heard from at Cubbon Park located more than 1.5 km away, but the traffic drowned it over time. Because of the musical heritage, the church has made it point to nurture musical talents, “In the pre-pandemic days, every fifth Sunday, we have musicians coming in to perform here. It is free and open to all,” said Mark, a parishioner.With Christmas just around the corner, these “Kings of instruments” in Bengaluru are getting ready to bring back sounds from Bangalore of yesteryears.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/the-two-musical-towers-of-bangalore-101639857612050.html
19-12-2021||India||CEC was not invited to electoral reform meeting on Nov 16, says law ministry||The Union law ministry said on Saturday that the chief election commissioner (CEC) was not invited to attend a meeting on electoral reforms held on November 16 and the legislative department had, instead, asked the secretary of the poll watchdog or a representative for the event.In a press communiqué, the ministry said that the after the official meeting, a subsequent “informal interaction” was held virtually with the CEC and the two ECs for “ironing out two or three aspects” for the final proposal on electoral reforms.“The meeting of 16.11.2021 was to finalise the cabinet note on some of the reforms and it was held virtually. The subsequent interaction with the chief election commissioner and two election commissioners was an informal one and meant for ironing out two or three aspects for the final proposal,” said the communiqué, in response to media reports.In its statement, the ministry said that several EC proposals regarding electoral reforms were pending and the CEC had written to the Union law minister several times to consider the reforms expeditiously. The statement also noted that the legislative department was the nodal department regarding EC matters and “regular interaction” took place between EC officials and the department.The communiqué said several meetings were held by the cabinet secretary and the PMO on a common electoral roll.“The PMO ID dated 12.11.2021 regarding a meeting on common electoral roll to be held on 16.11.2021 was addressed to the cabinet secretary, law secretary and secretary, legislative department. it was not addressed to the chief election commissioner. Since Election Commission Of India has the necessary expertise and mandate regarding electoral roll and in the light of the previous letters of the chief election commissioner addressed to the law minister, secretary, legislative department thought it appropriate to invite officials of election commission to this meeting,” said the statement.The undersecretary of the legislative department sent a letter dated November 15 to the secretary of the EC to attend the meeting the next day. The letter was addressed to secretary and also requested the EC secretary to attend the meeting, said the communiqué.“After receipt of the letter by the ECI, the chief election commissioner spoke to secretary, legislative department expressing his displeasure over the expression in the middle part of the letter which gave an impression that it was expected of the CEC to attend the meeting. Secretary, legislative department clarified that the letter was for Secretary or a representative of the CEC familiar with the subject to attend the meeting,” the ministry said in the press release.The ministry further clarified that the meeting was a virtual one and was attended by the officials of the Government of India and EC officials. “After the meeting of Officials, certain issues required further fine-tuning. These issues include the number of qualifying dates for updation of electoral roll, some aspects of Aadhaar linkage and requisition of premises,” said the statement.After the official meeting, a separate informal interaction was held virtually with the CEC and the two ECs. “It may be noted that the discussion was held together with all three Commissioners of ECI, and virtually,” the ministry said.The ministry statement said that after the deliberations with the EC, a proposal was drafted by the legislative department that was placed for consideration before the Union Cabinet “that has approved proposal for introducing “The Election Laws (Amendment) Bill 2021 during the current session of the Parliament”.“It is reiterated that the legislative department organises meetings with officers of the Election Commission and other relevant government departments in matters related to electoral reforms,” said the statement.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/cec-was-not-invited-to-electoral-reform-meeting-on-november-16-says-law-ministry-101639857553337.html
19-12-2021||India||Attacks on Christian groups expose fault lines in Karnataka||Bengaluru: Karnataka has witnessed at least 39 incidents of attacks on Christian community members this year till November, according to data compiled by the People’s Union for Civil Liberties (PUCL), a human rights body. While official figures on attacks of Christians last year are not available, several activists have claimed the cases have increased this year. Activists have also drawn a parallel between the rise in attacks on the Christian community and the ruling Bharatiya Janata Party’s (BJP) push for an “anti-conversion” bill in the state. The chief minister Basavaraj Bommai-led Karnataka government has created a draft “anti-conversion” bill to check “forced religious conversions” in the state, activists argued. “Compared to now, there were fewer attacks. The increase in these attacks has happened especially after the new chief minister (Basavaraj Bommai) took over. The CM giving assurance to pass the anti-conversion bill has made it seem like Christians are a threat to the Hindu community,” said B Rajasekhar, president of the Christian Forum for Human Rights. Rajasekhar had filed multiple cases against the state government led by former chief minister BS Yediyurappa, for not taking action against multiple cases of attack on Christians between 2003 and 2018. The Archbishop of Bengaluru, Peter Machado, also claimed the attitude of the government was a reason for the “increase in attacks” on the Christian community. “Certain behaviour or certain utterances from the government, certain attitude from the government is the reason that this (attacks) is allowed and tolerated. This can go on and is sad for us,” said the Archbishop. He added that earlier such incidents were reported from interior places where there were fewer members of the community and small churches. “But to happen in Hubballi, Dharwad, Bengaluru means people are taking the law into their hands,” Machado said. The issue of forcible conversions gained momentum after BJP legislator Goolihatti Shekar recently made an appeal against the practice, claiming his mother was also a “victim” of it. In September, Shekar had said his mother was among those in Chitradurga district who was “brainwashed” by the “missionaries”. He had claimed that people from “marginalised communities and even Muslims were being converted”, or they were slapped with false charges, and around 15,000-20,000 people in his constituency were possibly converted. Shekar had presided over an event in which at least five families “were brought back” into the Hindu fold, including his mother, on September 11. However, an investigation done by a tehsildar in Hosadurga debunked this claim. In his report, the tehsildar said all the “believers who attend prayers in the five churches in the Hosadurga taluk do so voluntarily and nobody has been coerced”. In addition, the tehsildar also visited two areas where social media reports alleged forced conversions were being conducted. His report stated that while eight people who had converted to Christianity reconverted to their original religion, nobody complained of having been forced to convert. The tehsildar was transferred without posting on December 16. A report by the PUCL, titled ‘Criminalizing the Practice of Faith’, listed out the 39 incidents of hate crime against the Christian community stating that in some cases the “police department and some politicians colluded with right-wing organisations in carrying out these attacks”. Karnataka Director General of Police Praveen Sood, however, rejected the allegations. “We have been impartial in taking action against anyone who is indulged in such activities, irrespective of religion and caste. As reported by the media itself, there has been a considerable number of FIRs (first information reports) registered and people have been arrested. We have taken action,” Sood said. The PUCL report also highlighted the change in Christian population in India to deflate the claim of forced mass conversion. It said that according to the 1971 Census, Christians comprised 2.60% of the population of India. “In 1981, they [Christians] were 2.44%; in 1991, 2.33%; in 2001, 2.18% and at present, they are 2.30%,” the report said. The document added that as per the 2011 Census, Christians accounted for 1.87% of the population in Karnataka. “Thus, the statistics do nothing to suggest that the Christian population is increasing,” the report said. Aakar Patel, author and former executive director of Amnesty International India, said “anti-conversion” laws being introduced in BJP-ruled states across the country was “part of a deliberate plan”. “Post 2018, five BJP governments have passed these (anti-conversion) laws. The freedom of religion, particularly the fundamental right to propagate religion, has been taken away from the Christians over the years. Now Karnataka has become the first southern state to draft a bill for such a law. Since hate crime is not a category in the official records, we don’t have the exact numbers, but anecdotal evidence suggests that these attacks are on the rise. We can also assume that these (attacks) in concert with the passing of the laws are deliberate,” said Patel. Similarly, Karnataka has also reported a rise in cases of vigilantism by Hindu groups, especially in coastal parts of the state. According to PUCL data, Karnataka witnessed at least 22 instances of moral policing by Hindu vigilantes in the 11 months this year till November, a 175% jump from eight cases reported in 2020. Activists claimed an increase in such cases after Bommai took over as the chief minister in July. In October, Bommai stoked a controversy with his statements that appeared to justify incidents of moral policing and communal disharmony in the state. However, the Karnataka BJP has rejected all allegations as baseless and a “fear-mongering” attempt by some “sections of a community”. Former MLC Ganesh Karnik, who is the chief spokesperson for the BJP in Karnataka, said, “This is a propaganda by select sections of this (Christian) community, who wants to spread some fear-mongering within the minorities. There are issues within the community. In Mangaluru, a few years ago the Roman Catholic community had claimed that some Christian fringe elements were trying to convert within the Christian community. In the name of the prayer meetings, they are involved in the religious conversion. The organisation releasing studies should study this as well.” He added, “Regarding allegations made against the senior leaders in the government and party, it is just an attempt to tarnish their image and divert attention from the work they are doing.”
19-12-2021||India||After tension in Belagavi, Bommai says will take strict action against vandals||Karnataka chief minister Basavaraj Bommai on Saturday said that police have been instructed to take strict action against those indulging in vandalism in the state.The statement comes days after a statue of Chhatrapati Shivaji in Bengaluru was vandalised and a protest by pro-Maharashtra activists in Belagavi resulted in vandalism, including an attack on the statue of freedom fighter Sangolli Rayanna.Speaking to media persons in Hubballi, the chief minister said he has instructed the home minister to take stringent action against those who violate law and order. “The home minister too has issued orders in this regard to police officers. Already a few persons have been arrested. Those indulging in acts of vandalism like stone pelting, destroying public property and damaging government vehicles would be dealt with sternly. More stringent and long-term measures would be taken to ensure that such acts do not recur. Police have been instructed to take all measures in this regard,” he said.Talking about attack on Shivaji statue, he said vandalisation of the statutes of the patriots, who have made sacrifices for the country, could not be tolerated. “Statues are erected to pay respects to them, not to cause social unrest in their name. A few elements are indulging in such intolerable acts. They would be crushed. Investigation would find whether it was perpetrated intentionally,” Bommai said.Speaking to media persons about incidents of vandalism in Belagavi on Friday night, he said, “Maintaining law and order in Karnataka is our responsibility. Similarly, It is the responsibility of the Maharashtra government to maintain law and order there.”He said that the director general of police will speak to his counterpart in Maharashtra about security of Kannadigas there and attack on buses and private vehicles from Karnataka. “Our home minister will take up the issue with his Maharashtra counterpart. Then, if necessary, I will speak to the Maharashtra chief minister,” he said.Replying to a question about Shiv Sena leader Sanjay Raut giving a call for Marathas to unite, Bommai said: “Responsible people should never incite anyone under any circumstances. Chatrapati Shivaji, Sangolli Rayanna and Kitturu Rani Chennamma fought against the British for freedom. They fought to unite the country. We will be doing a disservice to them if we fight to divide the society. Nobody should incite people to take law into their own hands.”Prohibitory orders were issued in Belagavi on Saturday following incidents of vandalisation of freedom fighter Sangolli Rayanna’s statue and hurling of stones at government vehicles. According to the police commissioner’s office, the prohibitory order was imposed under Section 144 of CrPC from 8 am on December 18 to 6 pm on December19 in Belagavi police commissionerate area, which comprises Belagavi taluk.On Monday the Maharashtra Ekikaran Samiti (MES) organised a protest against the assembly session being held at Belagavi, which is a disputed territory. Pro-Kannada protesters subsequently threw black ink on MES leader Deepak Dalvi, following which MES supporters burnt a Karnataka flag in Kolhapur on Tuesday. The MES also issued a bandh call in Belagavi.The act of burning Karnataka’s flag led to the state legislative assembly passing a censure motion on Thursday, with Opposition parties demanding action against MES. Allegedly in retaliation to the burning of the Karnataka flag, unidentified persons poured ink on a statue of Chhatrapati Shivaji in Bengaluru on Friday. Suspected MES supporters then allegedly damaged a statue of freedom fighter Sangolli Rayanna and indulged in stone-pelting on Karnataka government vehicles in Belagavi.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/after-tension-in-belagavi-cm-bommai-says-will-take-strict-action-against-vandals-101639857431949.html
19-12-2021||India||KTR: Munawar Faruqui, Kunal Kamra welcome to hold their shows in Hyderabad||HyderabadThe Telangana government will welcome stand-up comedians Kunal Kamra and Munawar Faruqui to stage their shows in Hyderabad, which is “truly cosmopolitan” unlike Bengaluru, state information technology minister K T Rama Rao said.“We don’t cancel shows of Munawar Faruqui and Kunal Kamra just because we are not aligned with them politically,” KTR, as chief minister K Chandrasekhar Rao’s son is popularly known, said while speaking at the inauguration of an insurance and financial company’s Hyderabad office on Friday evening.Of late, the Telangana government has been taking an aggressive stand against the Bharatiya Janata Party and the NDA government at the Centre. The chief minister has even given a call to the party cadre to burn effigies of the state and central BJP leaders on Monday in protest against the Centre’s “anti-farmer policies” and hound them away if they entered villages.KTR took a dig at the BJP government in Bengaluru for cancelling the show of Kamra and Faruqui last month on the ground of “law and order” issues and describing Faruqui a “controversial figure.”He said: “People from Bengaluru claim their city to be cosmopolitan and then end up taking comedy very seriously. We (Hyderabad) are a truly cosmopolitan city that is welcoming of all cultures, welcoming of criticism. You can come here, criticise the government… in fact, we receive a lot of brickbats from our opposition every day. We are very tolerant.”
19-12-2021||India||France to jointly make aero engines in India: Rajnath Singh at FICCI event||NEW DELHI: France has agreed to jointly manufacture aero engines in India under the government’s strategic partnership model to boost self-reliance in the defence manufacturing sector, defence minister Rajnath Singh said on Saturday. “A big French company will manufacture an engine in India, thus far not made in the country, in collaboration with an Indian firm,” Singh said at an event organised by the Federation of Indian Chambers of Commerce and Industry. His comments coming a day after he held the 3rd annual defence dialogue with his French counterpart Florence Parly.Singh did not divulge details of the proposed cooperation with France. Aircraft engines are a glaring capability gap in India’s defence manufacturing sector, with major indigenous flying platforms equipped with imported engines. The strategic partnership model Singh referred to is an important element of the country’s defence procurement procedure, and seeks to provide fillip to the government’s Make in India programme. It aims at bringing high-end military technology into the country, and lays down the template for partnership between Indian companies and foreign military contractors to build advanced platforms. The current reforms undertaken by the government will help the Indian defence and aerospace sector clock a turnover of ₹5 trillion by 2047, compared to the current ₹850 billion, the defence minister said. The steps taken by the government to boost indigenisation include increasing foreign direct investment limit from 49% to 74%, notifying two lists of 209 weapons and systems that cannot be imported and creating a separate budget for buying locally made military hardware. “For the security of India, it is necessary that we develop our defence capacity and capability (to a level) that even the most powerful country in the world has to think a thousand times before planning anything that endangers our interests. Our government’s aim is not to attack anyone, but prepare our armed forces to be ready at all times to give a befitting reply to the country’s enemies,” Singh said. Referring to the recent deal with Russia to build assault rifles in the country, the minister said the government was focused on Make in India, Make for India and Make for the world. India and Russia on December 6 concluded a much-awaited ₹5,100-crore deal for the joint production of more than 600,000 AK-203 assault rifles at a facility in Uttar Pradesh’s Amethi district. The deal was finalised at the 20th meeting of the India-Russia Inter-Governmental Commission on Military & Military Technical Cooperation led by Singh and his Russian counterpart Sergey Shoigu.
19-12-2021||India||‘You have my apology and gratitude’: Smriti Irani pays tribute to soldiers, families||NEW DELHI: Union minister Smriti Irani paid a tribute to India’s soldiers and their families, saying their sacrifices are rarely acknowledged. She was speaking at a literature festival organised by the Army Wives Welfare Association on Friday.“Today as a civilian, I am here to say sorry that we do not look at you till such time when a challenge comes upon the country. You not only have my apology but my gratitude on behalf of every Indian,” the women and child development minister said.She made the comments while paying homage to India’s first chief of defence staff (CDS) General Bipin Rawat, his wife Madhulika Raje Singh Rawat and 12 others who were killed in a helicopter crash. Those killed included the only survivor of the crash, Group Captain Varun Singh, who died on Wednesday. The others were instantly killed.The December 8 Mi-17V5 near Coonoor in Tamil Nadu, which sent shock waves through the Indian military establishment, has been dubbed a devastating setback for the ongoing military reforms and raised questions about succession in the armed forces.Irani said soldiers and their families are remembered only when the country faces a challenge or when some tragedy strikes. “We see you only when you step up to take the posthumous honour... We salute you and shower you with petals when a man in uniform comes back home in a box... We, as civilians, presume it’s a given that you’ve chosen to serve the armed forces... For that, you have my apology,” she said.“While we stood to pay homage to Madhulika ji…when I saw her on the pyre with Gen Rawat…as a civilian, I thought we don’t spare all of you a thought…When I say all of you, it included the wives and children too, till such time a tragedy strikes. You are unacknowledged by us. And for that, you have my apology,” she added.Air Marshal Manavendra Singh, the senior-most helicopter pilot in the Indian Air Force (IAF) and serving as the Air Officer Commanding-in-Chief of the IAF’s Bengaluru-based Training Command, is probing the CDS chopper crash. 
19-12-2021||India||Farmer leader Gurnam Singh Chaduni floats party ahead of Punjab polls||Senior farm leader Gurnam Singh Chaduni launched a new political party on Saturday and said his outfit was aimed at battling corruption and will contest all seats in the upcoming Punjab elections.Chaduni, who leads the Bharatiya Kisan Union (BKU) in Haryana, gained prominence by helping farm unions protesting against three now-scrapped central laws to mobilize and reach the Capital. He is a member of the Samyukt Kisan Morcha (SKM), a platform of 40 farm unions that led the yearlong stir against the three laws. The laws were repealed in November.Chaduni called his outfit the “Sanyukt Sangharsh Party” and said he will not contest the polsl from Punjab. “Our objective will be to purify politics and bring good people forward,” said the leader.The announcement came on a day the SKM was holding a meeting to strategise for the upcoming elections in five states, including Uttar Pradesh and Punjab, where agriculture issues are expected to have an impact on the polls.Punjab, Uttar Pradesh, Uttarakhand, Goa and Manipur are expected to go the polls early next year.Earlier in the day in Chandigarh, Chaduni said there was no decision on alliances and stressed on bringing changes in the farming sector for more employment.“Every political party is here to make money. They have made it a business and polluted it. The politicians are responsible for the capitalism, poverty and inequality in the country,” he said. “Hence we are launching our party today, which will be free of casteism and won’t bend towards any particular religion,” he added.He also backed opium farming in Punjab. “If opium farming is allowed, Punjab can progress a lot,” he said. “The purpose of the party will be to bring equality, making the state drugs free, making education and health facilities free for all,” he said.Jaspal Singh Joramajra, who was introduced as head of the party in Punjab, said they thought of forming a new party after seeing ‘atrocities” during the farmers’ protest.“Punjab has always taken a lead whenever there is a revolution; hence we are starting from Punjab,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/farmer-leader-gurnam-singh-chaduni-floats-party-ahead-of-punjab-polls-101639856831706.html
19-12-2021||India||Income Tax department raids Samajwadi Party leaders, Akhilesh slams Centre||The Bharatiya Janata Party regime is misusing central agencies, Samajwadi Party chief Akhilesh Yadav alleged on Saturday after the income-tax department raided premises of leaders of Uttar Pradesh’s main opposition party.“The BJP too is acting like the Congress did in the past,” Yadav said while on an election tour in Rae Bareli. “Turn back the pages and you will see that whenever the Congress had to intimidate anyone, they would misuse the central agencies.”The SP alleged that the raids by taxmen at the offices and residences of leaders were politically motivated ahead of assembly elections early next year in India’s most populous state.The leaders whose premises were searched included Jainendra Yadav, a close aide of Akhilesh Yadav. His Vishal Khand, Gomtinagar residence in the state capital was searched. Others whose premises were searched were party spokesperson Rajiv Rai (Mau district’s Sahadatpura premises) and contractor Manoj Yadav from Punjabi Bagh locality of Mainpuri, who is believed to be close to the SP chief.Income tax searches are usually carried out on tipoffs about tax evasion.“I am a leader with no criminal record. Yet these raids are being carried out,” Rai said. “I want to tell my supporters to maintain calm and give no excuse to police to make a case against you on the pretext of disturbing law and order.” The spokesperson blamed income tax officials for “unnecessarily” delaying the entire exercise.The taxmen were not available for a comment. The ruling Bharatiya Janata Party has not spoken on the development so far.“The income tax department has jumped into election fray (from the BJP government’s side),” SP national president Akhilesh Yadav said while on the election trail in Rae Bareli before starting on the second day of his Vijay Yatra.“We were wondering where the IT department was. This (raids on SP leaders) was awaited. Now IT has come, soon ED (Enforcement Directorate that investigates financial irregularities) and other agencies will come in,” Yadav said sarcastically at a media briefing.“I had always been saying that as imminent defeat is nagging BJP, such things would begin,” the SP chief alleged. “And they have begun. Anyone who takes on this government will be victimized. Look at Azam Khan (SP parliamentarian who is in jail on charges of grabbing land), look at farmers, what this BJP government did to them.”“Now the IT department has come into the election fray. This is not CBI (Central Bureau of Investigation), IT elections. It’s a people’s election,” he said. “People have made up their mind to oust this government that has caused killat, dikkat and zillat (scarcity, adversity and humiliation) to the people.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/ahead-of-uttar-pradesh-elections-income-tax-department-raids-samajwadi-party-leaders-akhilesh-slams-centre-101639856591713.html
19-12-2021||India||Hindutvawadi bathes alone in the Ganga: Rahul Gandhi takes jibe at PM Modi in Amethi||Amethi: Congress leader Rahul Gandhi on Saturday spoke about Hindu versus Hindutvawadi while attacking Prime Minister Narendra Modi at an election rally in Amethi ahead of assembly polls early next year in Uttar Pradesh. “On one side is Hindu. On the other is Hindutvawadi. On one side is truth, love and non-violence, and on the other is falsehood, hatred and violence,” he said, referring to Modi and the Bharatiya Janata Party.“A Hindutvavadi bathes alone in Ganga, while a Hindu bathes with crores of people... Narendra Modi says he is a Hindu, but when did he protect the truth? He said he would give two crore youth jobs, where did he do so? He asked people to bang thalis to get rid of Covid... Hindu or Hindutvawadi?” the former Congress president said, accusing the Prime Minister of speaking lies and misleading people.Amethi is my home, Gandhi declared at the rally, trying to reclaim the lost bastion and launching the Congress party’s election campaign. “I told my sister that I will visit my home (Amethi) before going to Lucknow,” Gandhi said after a 6km march from Jagdishpur to Harimau in Amethi. “ I wanted to speak to my family.” He had won in the parliamentary constituency for three times since 2004 but lost to BJP’s Smriti Irani in the 2019 general elections. Accompanied by Congress general secretary Priyanka Gandhi Vadra, he referred to his family’s close ties with the people in Amethi. His father, former Prime Minister Rajiv Gandhi, has won from the seat four times. “Our relationship will continue longer and longer,” he said amid applause. Gandhi accused Modi of not working for the people but for only a few industrialists, citing the example of the contentious farm laws that were repealed by the central government. “PM introduced farm laws and said that they are going to benefit farmers. After one year, when all farmers stood together against the laws, PM had to apologise,” he said. “It was not a mistake. It was done to benefit some industrialists.” Meanwhile, Union minister Smriti Irani said the Congress leaders had to “get people from Lucknow and Chhattisgarh” which “speaks volumes about their relationship” with her constituency.“Today the siblings were in Amethi. They had to amass crowd from Lucknow, Sant Kabir Nagar and Chhattisgarh... someone had to burn a lot of fuel… The fact that you (Nehru-Gandhi family) were in a constituency for 50 years and have to drive 50 people from Lucknow to Amethi speaks volumes about them and their relationship with my constituency. That ‘yatra’ is going nowhere,” Irani said when asked about the foot march in Amethi at the launch of her novel ‘Lal Salaam’.(with agency inputs)
19-12-2021||India||Love on one side, hatred on other, says Rahul||Amethi Congress leader Rahul Gandhi on Saturday spoke about Hindu versus Hindutvavadi while attacking Prime Minister Narendra Modi at an election rally in Amethi ahead of assembly polls early next year in Uttar Pradesh.“On one side is Hindu. On the other is Hindutvavadi. On one side is truth, love and non-violence, and on the other is falsehood, hatred and violence,” he said, referring to Modi and the Bharatiya Janata Party.“A Hindutvavadi bathes alone in Ganga, while a Hindu bathes with crores of people... Narendra Modi says he is a Hindu, but when did he protect the truth? He said he would give two crore youth jobs, where did he do so? He asked people to bang thalis to get rid of Covid... Hindu or Hindutvawadi?” the former Congress president said, accusing the Prime Minister of speaking lies and misleading people.Amethi is my home, Gandhi declared at the rally, trying to reclaim the lost bastion and launching the Congress party’s election campaign. “I told my sister that I will visit my home (Amethi) before going to Lucknow,” Gandhi said after a 6km march from Jagdishpur to Harimau in Amethi. “I wanted to speak to my family.”He had won in the parliamentary constituency for three times since 2004 but lost to BJP’s Smriti Irani in the 2019 general elections.Accompanied by Congress general secretary Priyanka Gandhi Vadra, he referred to his family’s close ties with the people in Amethi. His father, former Prime Minister Rajiv Gandhi, has won from the seat four times. “Our relationship will continue longer and longer,” he said amid applause.Gandhi accused Modi of not working for the people but for only a few industrialists, citing the example of the contentious farm laws that were repealed by the central government.“PM introduced farm laws and said that they are going to benefit farmers. After one year, when all farmers stood together against the laws, PM had to apologise,” he said. “It was not a mistake. It was done to benefit some industrialists.”There are five assembly seats in Amethi parliamentary constituency. Out of these, Amethi, Jagdishpur, Salon, Tiloi are held by the BJP. The Gauriganj seat is with the Samajwadi Party. The Congress is trying to regain its turf in Amethi and UP in the upcoming assembly polls.Meanwhile, Union minister Smriti Irani said the Congress leaders had to “get people from Lucknow and Chhattisgarh” which “speaks volumes about their relationship” with her constituency.“Today the siblings were in Amethi. They had to amass crowd from Lucknow, Sant Kabir Nagar and Chhattisgarh... someone had to burn a lot of fuel… The fact that you (Nehru-Gandhi family) were in a constituency for 50 years and have to drive 50 people from Lucknow to Amethi speaks volumes about them and their relationship with my constituency. That ‘yatra’ is going nowhere,” Irani said when asked about the foot march in Amethi at the launch of her novel ‘Lal Salaam’.(With agency inputs)
19-12-2021||India||Man killed over sacrilege in Golden Temple: Police||A man was beaten to death by pilgrims at the Golden Temple in Amritsar on Saturday evening after he allegedly stepped inside the central enclosure of the sanctum sanctorum where the holy book Guru Granth Sahib is placed, picked up a diamond-encrusted sword and committed sacrilege, police said.As the man’s act was telecast on live television during the broadcast of evening prayers at the shrine, word spread fast and angry pilgrims grabbed him even as he was being taken away by employees of the SGPC, the committee that manages gurdwara affairs, and beat him to death before police arrived, officials said.The incident came months ahead of assembly elections in the state, in the campaign for which the issue of sacrilege of Sikh scriptures is already centre stage. Justice over police firing at peaceful demonstrators protesting sacrilege in Bargari village during which two people were killed in 2015 remains a key issue raised by all parties in Punjab.Also read | 'Deep-rooted conspiracy': SAD after alleged sacrilege attempt at Golden TempleAs the Golden Temple granthi (priest) Giani Baljit Singh was reciting evening hymns on Saturday, a young man dressed in a brown suit rushed towards the scripture, jumped over the railing around it, trampled on a rumala (the decorative cloth on which the holy book is installed), and picked up a sword before he was overpowered by staff, police said.“Before he could go any further, the SGPC employees caught him to take him to the SGPC head office in the Teja Singh Samundri Hall. While the employees were taking him to the office, some of the other devotees present in the shrine beat him up so much that he died upon reaching the office,” deputy commissioner of police (law and order) Parminder Singh Bhandal said.“As per the CCTV footage, the man had come alone and seemed to be around 23 year old. The body has been sent to the civil hospital and a post-mortem examination will be held on Sunday. His identity is still unknown. We have all the CCTV footage and will investigate each and every aspect related to the incident,” Bhandal said.SGPC officials said the sword that was picked up by the man menacingly was encrusted with diamonds and was donated by 19th century ruler Maharaja Ranjit Singh. They said by appearance the man did not look like a local, but police said the claim needed further investigation.The officials said this was the second such incident in four days. On December 15, a person threw a Gutka Sahib (a booklet of selected religious hymns) in the Golden Temple sarovar (pond). With the help of CCTV footage, members of a task force of the SGPC caught the person, who was then handed over to police. A case was registered against him for hurting religious sentiments.“Earlier, sacrilege incidents happened at other places, but now this is being done at the Golden Temple itself,” SGPC chief Harjinder Singh Dhami said.Speaking of the December 15 incident, he said, “While handing over the accused, we asked police to ascertain who was behind the offence. But, he was sent to judicial remand and police did nothing concrete.”“I feel as the state elections are coming, there may be a deep-rooted conspiracy behind these incidents. Police often shrug off their responsibility by saying that the accused was mentally disturbed.”Police tightened security around the shrine complex on Saturday to ensure peace.
19-12-2021||India||Be wary of selfish politics before polls: Mayawati on Ganga E-way||Soon after Prime Minister Narendra Modi laid the foundation stone of the 594-km Ganga Expressway in Uttar Pradesh’s Shahjahanpur district on Saturday, Bahujan Samaj Party (BSP) chief Mayawati said when her government had first decided on an eight lane Noida-Ballia expressway, the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) was among those who had opposed it. She also suggested that people should be wary of such announcements made ahead of polls.“During the BSP government’s tenure, an effort was made to come up with a Noida-Ballia 8 lane expressway that would have linked Delhi with eastern UP and help end problems of poverty, exodus and unemployment. Then the Congress, the Bharatiya Janata Party and the Samajwadi Party all had opposed it,” she tweeted on Saturday.“Now, nearer to the elections, despite five years of a double engine government, meaning 10 years in all, the foundation stone of the Ganga Expressway has been laid after bifurcating it into two phases. For how long will people continue to be duped by such selfish politics? People need to exercise caution as it is important to do so during elections,” she added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/be-wary-of-selfish-politics-before-polls-mayawati-on-ganga-eway-101639856053165.html
19-12-2021||India||Man lynched over sacrilege at Golden Temple||A man was beaten to death by pilgrims at the Golden Temple in Amritsar on Saturday evening after he allegedly stepped inside the central enclosure of the sanctum sanctorum where the holy book Guru Granth Sahib is placed, picked up a diamond-encrusted sword and committed sacrilege, police said.As the man’s act was telecast on live television during the broadcast of evening prayers at the shrine, word spread fast and angry pilgrims grabbed him even as he was being taken away by employees of the SGPC, the committee that manages gurdwara affairs, and beat him to death before police arrived, officials said.The incident came months ahead of assembly elections in the state, in the campaign for which the issue of sacrilege of Sikh scriptures is already centre stage. Justice over police firing at peaceful demonstrators protesting sacrilege in Bargari village during which two people were killed in 2015 remains a key issue raised by all parties in Punjab.As the Golden Temple granthi (priest) Giani Baljit Singh was reciting evening hymns on Saturday, a young man dressed in a brown suit rushed towards the scripture, jumped over the railing around it, trampled on a rumala (the decorative cloth on which the holy book is installed), and picked up a sword before he was overpowered by staff, police officials said.“Before he could go any further, the SGPC employees caught him to take him to the SGPC head office in the Teja Singh Samundri Hall. While the employees were taking him to the office, some of the other devotees present in the shrine beat him up so much that he died upon reaching the office,” deputy commissioner of police (law and order) Parminder Singh Bhandal said.“As per the CCTV footage, the man had come alone and seemed to be around 23 year old. The body has been sent to the civil hospital and a post-mortem examination will be held on Sunday. His identity is still unknown. We have all the CCTV footage and will investigate each and every aspect related to the incident,” Bhandal said.SGPC officials said the sword that was picked up by the man menacingly was encrusted with diamonds and was donated by 19th century ruler Maharaja Ranjit Singh. They said by appearance the man did not look like a local, but police said the claim needed further investigation.The officials said this was the second such incident in four days. On December 15, a person threw a Gutka Sahib (a booklet of selected religious hymns) in the Golden Temple sarovar (pond). With the help of CCTV footage, members of a task force of the SGPC caught the person, who was then handed over to police. A case was registered against him for hurting religious sentiments.“Earlier, sacrilege incidents happened at other places, but now this is being done at the Golden Temple itself,” SGPC chief Harjinder Singh Dhami said.Speaking of the December 15 incident, he said, “While handing over the accused, we asked police to ascertain who was behind the offence. But, he was sent to judicial remand and police did nothing concrete.”“I feel as the state elections are coming, there may be a deep-rooted conspiracy behind these incidents. Police often shrug off their responsibility by saying that the accused was mentally disturbed.”Police tightened security around the shrine complex on Saturday to ensure peace.
19-12-2021||India||Just one expressway in Uttar Pradesh till 2017, six being built now: Yogi Adityanath||Uttar Pradesh chief minister Yogi Adityanath on Saturday said that from 1947 to 2017, just one expressway had been built in Uttar Pradesh but since then work on six expressways was in progress in the state. The CM was speaking at an event in Shahjahanpur after Prime Minister Narendra Modi laid the foundation stone of the Ganga Expressway. During the event , PM Modi credited Yogi Adityanath of doing away with the “katta culture” (culture of firearms) that he said used to be prevalent in western UP during the tenure of past governments. “The foundation stone laying event by Prime Minister Modi will usher in new opportunities of growth and development. From 1947 to 2017, just one expressway was built in the state, but since then six expressways are being made,” the CM said. “For the first time, labourers are being felicitated,” he said recalling how after the inauguration of the Kashi Vishwanath Corridor in Varanasi on December 13, the PM had honoured those labourers who had played a part in the project.“During Prayagraj Kumbh, too, the PM had washed the feet of those workers who had kept the Kumbh venue clean,” Adityanath said. On the occasion, deputy chief minister Keshav Prasad Maurya urged the people to help the BJP form the government after the next election with an even bigger majority than in 2017. UP ministers Suresh Khanna, Satish Mahana and Jitin Prasada were also present on the occasion.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/just-one-expressway-in-uttar-pradesh-till-2017-six-being-built-now-yogi-adityanath-101639854971552.html
19-12-2021||India||We don’t cancel shows of comedians like other states: Telangana minister KTR||The Telangana government will welcome stand-up comedians Kunal Kamra and Munawar Faruqui if they want to stage their shows in Hyderabad, which is “truly cosmopolitan” unlike Bengaluru, state information technology minister K T Rama Rao has said.“We don’t cancel shows of Munawar Faruqui and Kunal Kamra just because we are not aligned with them politically,” KTR, as chief minister K Chandrasekhar Rao’s son is popularly known, said while speaking at the inauguration of insurance and financial company Mass Mutual’s Hyderabad office on Friday evening.Of late, the Telangana government has been taking an aggressive stand against the Bharatiya Janata Party and the NDA government at the Centre. The chief minister has even given a call to party cadres to burn effigies of the state and central BJP leaders on Monday in protest against the Centre’s anti-farmer policies. KTR took a dig at the BJP government in Bengaluru for cancelling the show of Kamra and Faruqui last month citing “law and order” issues and describing Faruqui as a “controversial figure.”“People from Bengaluru claim their city is cosmopolitan and then end up taking comedy very seriously. We (Hyderabad) are a truly cosmopolitan city that welcomes all cultures and also welcomes criticism. You can come here, criticise the government… in fact, we receive a lot of brickbats from our opposition every day. We are very tolerant,” KTR said.
19-12-2021||India||VVIP flying protocols will change: IAF chief||Protocols governing flights ferrying important people will be reviewed after an inquiry panel submits its report on the Coonoor helicopter crash in which 14 people were killed, including India’s first chief of defence staff (CDS) General Bipin Rawat, Air Chief Marshal Vivek Ram Chaudhari said on Saturday..“The VVIP protocols to fly will be reviewed. The review will be based on the findings of the court of inquiry into the crash,” the IAF chief said on the sidelines of a graduation parade at the Air Force Academy in Dundigal near Hyderabad.Air Marshal Manavendra Singh, the IAF’s senior-most helicopter pilot and currently serving as the Air Officer Commanding-in-Chief of the IAF’s Bengaluru-based Training Command, is probing the chopper crash. Singh has defied death multiple times in his 39-year military career, including once during one of the gravest emergencies in IAF history involving the Russian-origin Mi-17 helicopter.Also read | When will India get remaining Rafale jets? IAF chief provides a timelineRawat and the others were killed in a Mi-17V5, an advanced variant of the Mi-17, crash near Coonoor in Tamil Nadu. Those killed included the only survivor of the crash, Group Captain Varun Singh, who died on Wednesday after battling for his life for a week. The others died instantly on December 8.The inquiry into the crash is likely to be concluded in a few weeks.“I wouldn’t like to pre-empt the findings of the court of inquiry as it’s a thorough process. It will investigate every single angle and look into every single aspect of what could have gone wrong, and come out with suitable recommendations and findings,” Chaudhari said.The CDS helicopter crash sent shock waves not only through the Indian military establishment but the entire country, and has been dubbed a devastating setback for the ongoing military reforms and raised questions about succession in the armed forces.At this point, it is not clear what went wrong with the helicopter in the final moments of the crash though the weather in the area where it went down did not have good visibility.Rawat was on a visit to the Defence Services Staff College (DSSC) at Wellington to deliver a talk when the chopper crashed.The Mi-17V5 took off from the Sulur air base at 11.48am, and was scheduled to land in Wellington at 12.15pm. But air traffic control at Sulur lost contact with the helicopter at 12.08pm when it was just seven minutes from its destination.The air force currently operates around 145 such choppers that are considered advanced, reliable and safe. India contracted 151 Mi-17V5 helicopters from Russia, and at least six of them have been lost in accidents since their induction a decade ago.Developed by Russian Helicopters, the Mi-17V5 is designed to carry personnel, cargo and equipment. It can also airdrop assault forces behind enemy lines.The helicopter, capable of day and night missions in adverse weather, is equipped with modern avionics, a self-defence system and advanced features that significantly enhance its survivability.The Mi-17V5, which has an armoured cockpit, can be fitted with rockets, cannons and small arms for offensive roles. It has service ceiling of 6,000 metre, top speed of 250 kmph and a maximum range of 1,180km with additional fuel tanks.Chaudhari said India was continuously evaluating the threats from Pakistan and China and was well aware of the situation at the borders. “The stand-off with China still continues. Though disengagement of troops has taken place in certain areas in Ladakh, complete disengagement has not taken place. IAF will continue to maintain deployment at forward locations. We are prepared to take on any challenge that we may face in that area,” he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/vvip-flying-protocols-will-change-iaf-chief-101639849870158.html
19-12-2021||India||Security beefed up in Kolkata ahead of civic body polls on Sunday||Security was tightened all over the Bengal capital and its entry points as the city geared up for the Kolkata Municipal Corporation (KMC) elections on Sunday. Prohibitory orders under Section 144 of the Code of Criminal Procedure (CrPC) were clamped within 100 metres of all polling stations. More than 23,500 policemen have been deployed to ensure the safety of voters and the candidates contesting in the city’s 144 civic wards. The Trinamool Congress (TMC) currently controls 126 of these seats and is expected to repeat its performance because of being in power, political observers feel. The Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP), which won five seats in the 2015 polls, alleged that the ruling party had ferried in outsiders to create trouble on Sunday. “Our leaders have spotted people from the districts coming to Kolkata in buses. We apprehend trouble. The TMC never allows free and fair elections,” said Bengal BJP president Sukanta Majumdar. Kolkata police commissioner Soumen Mitra, who inspected the security arrangements and ordered random inspection of vehicles in the city at its entry points, told the media that all precautions have been taken. “We are confident that the elections will be peaceful,” Mitra said. The state election commission (SEC) has installed security cameras inside all polling booths, counting centres and facilities to be used for storing around 6,500 electronic voting machines (EVMs) following an order of the Calcutta high court passed on December 16. The petition was filed by the BJP. The BJP had also moved the high court seeking deployment of central armed police forces (CAPF). It told the court that BJP candidates and voters may face violence on Sunday and cited the alleged killings after the March-April assembly polls as the ground for such apprehension. The BJP’s petition was rejected by a single bench on Thursday and the division bench of chief justice Prakash Shrivastava and justice Rajarshi Bhardwaj on Friday night. The party challenged the order in the Supreme Court but no hearing was held till Saturday evening. “The high court orders have proved that the BJP is making baseless allegations to divert people’s attention. The party could not even find any strong candidate,” said TMC state general secretary Kunal Ghosh. The police on Saturday evening arrested three men from the Taratala area when they were found to be carrying firearms. State BJP’s chief spokesperson Samik Bhattacharya said, “If there is even one spot of trouble during the polls, we will move the court and file a complaint with the special investigation team that the high court formed to probe the violence after the assembly elections.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/security-beefed-up-in-kolkata-ahead-of-civic-body-polls-on-sunday-101639842970279.html
19-12-2021||India||₹200 cr money laundering: ED reveals how conman Sukesh's wife Leena Maria Paul deleted evidence||The  ₹200 crore money laundering which was conducted from a barrack of Rohini jail with the aid of jail staff had a crucial exponent, Sukesh Chandrashekhar's wife Leena Maria Paul, the Enforcement Directorate has revealed. According to the ED chargesheet, Leena Maria Paul, who is an actor, is a master con woman and strategist and the brain behind the schemes "devised to launder the proceeds of the crime", news agency ANI reported.The case dates back to September when the Delhi Police arrested Sukesh Chandrashekhar and Leena in the ₹200 crore money laundering case. But the investigation into the case has yielded sensational details, starting from the don's modus operandi of impersonating government officials and teh alleged connection to many Bollywood personalities, including Jacqueline Fernandez, Nora Fatehi etc. Sukesh and Leena have dozens of luxury cars, a sea-facing bungalow in Chennai which all have been seized by the ED.In connection with the case, Sukesh was arrested first and as soon as the news reached his wife, she deleted all evidence, the ED said. Leena pretends that she has no role in anything at all while ED says co-accused in the case Arun Muthu, Anand Moorthy and Jagdish have stated "specific instances of her threatening them".5 things to know about actor Leena Maria Paul1. Leena Maria Paul is a Malayali actor who was seen in the role of a Tamil rebel in Shoojit Sircar's Madras Cafe.2. Her modelling-acting career began in 2009 and she featured in movies like Husbands in Goa, Cobra, Biriyani etc.3. According to reports, Sukesh and Leena Maria Paul began dating in 2010 and Sukesh told her he belonged to a political family.4. This is not the first case in which the husband and the wife have been arrested together, In 2013, they were arrested for allegedly duping a Chennai bank of ₹19 crore. After this case, they relocated to Goregaon and were arrested in another cheating case of ₹10 crore.5. In 2018, two persons allegedly hired by underworld don Ravi Pujari had fired bullets at a luxury nail salon in Panampilly Nagar in Kochi, owned by the actor.Enforcement Directorate believes Leena was not only a beneficiary of the proceeds of Sukesh's latest crime in which he took money from the wife of a former promoter of Religare Enterprises Shivinder Mohan Singh, but also is the key to locate the money. ED is now probing whether the money has been invested abroad.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/rs-200-cr-money-laundering-ed-revels-how-conman-sukesh-s-wife-leena-maria-paul-deleted-evidence-101639819707255.html
