20-12-2021||India||Panama Papers case: ED quizzes Aishwarya for 6 hrs in forex case||Bollywood actor Aishwarya Rai Bachchan was questioned for about six hours on Monday by the Enforcement Directorate (ED) at its office in central Delhi in a case linked to the 2016 ‘Panama Papers’ global tax leaks case, official sources said.The quizzing of the 48-year-old daughter-in-law of superstar Amitabh Bachchan and Samajwadi Party MP Jaya Bachchan comes weeks after her husband Abhishek Bachchan was questioned by the agency in another case emerging from the same set of papers linked to the offshore leaks case, they said.The ED recorded Aishwarya Rai Bachchan’s statement under the provisions of the Foreign Exchange Management Act (FEMA).The former Miss World left the agency’s office located in Jam Nagar house here shortly after 7 PM.Officials said she was questioned for about six hours.The actor was ushered into a white car from the back door of the ED office even as a huge posse of media personnel tried in vain to get her comment.The actor, sources said, has submitted some documents to the investigators with regard to the case.Dubbed ‘Panama Papers’, an investigation of a stockpile of records from Panamanian legal firm Mossack Fonseca by the Washington-based International Consortium of Investigative Journalists (ICIJ) in 2016 had named several world leaders and celebrities who allegedly stashed away money abroad in offshore companies.Some of them are stated to be holding valid overseas accounts.The leaked tranche had a total of 426 India-linked cases.The ED has been probing the case linked to the Bachchans since 2016-17.It had issued notices to the Bachchan family asking them to explain their foreign remittances since 2004 under the Reserve Bank of India’s (RBI) Liberalised Remittance Scheme (LRS) and regulated under the Foreign Exchange Management Act (FEMA).Some documents were submitted by the Bachchans to the agency then.Some other instances of alleged irregularities linked to the family are also under the scanner of the federal probe agency, the sources said.Aishwarya Rai Bachchan was stated by the ICIJ of having links with an offshore entity in the British Virgin Islands (BVI) that was created in 2005.Her family was also stated to be part of this offshore entity that had an “initial authorised capital of USD 50,000.” The company was reportedly dissolved in 2008.Abhishek Bachchan has also been examined by the ED in the past in another instance linked to the offshore leaks case, sources said.The government had created a multi-agency group (MAG) of central investigative agencies under the chairman of the Central Board of Direct Taxes (CBDT) that also comprised officials from the ED, Reserve Bank of India (RBI) and the Financial Intelligence Unit (FIU) to monitor probe into the Panama Papers and similar global tax leaks cases.It had recently said that “total undisclosed credits of ₹20,353 crore” have been detected with respect to 930 India linked entities in the Panama and Paradise Paper Leaks, as on October 1, 2021.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/panama-papers-case-ed-quizzes-aishwarya-for-6-hrs-in-forex-case-101640024368159.html
20-12-2021||India||Gujarat reimposes night curfew in 8 major cities till year end||Gujarat on Monday extended the night curfew in 8 cities of the state till December 31 amid the spread of the Omicron variant of the coronavirus, news agency ANI reported.The night curfew from 1am to 5am will continue to be in force in Ahmedabad, Rajkot, Surat, Vadodara, Jamnagar, Bhavnagar, Gandhinagar and Junagadh till the end of the year.The night curfew was imposed in these cities on November 1 and the duration was reduced by two hours amid Diwali and Chhath Puja festivities and also due to a fall in the number of Covid-19 cases.The government then extended the curfew for 10 more days, from December 1 to December 10. During the night curfew, restaurants can remain open till midnight with 75 per cent occupancy. The government also permitted home delivery and take-away services till midnight.The government urged citizens to ensure that the Covid-19 preventative measures be strictly followed in a bid to stop the spread of Covid-19 as Omicron cases grow in the state.Gujarat detected four new cases of Omicron on Sunday, taking the tally of those infected with the latest variant in the state to 11. Those who tested positive on Sunday have a history of foreign travel.India has detected as many as 161 cases of the Omicron variant till Monday in 12 states and Union territories. Health minister Mansukh Mandaviya told Parliament that the government is monitoring the situation daily and speaking with experts.“The government has taken steps to deal with the situation if the virus spreads. With our experience during the first and second waves, to ensure that we don't face problems if variant spreads, we have arranged a buffer stock of important medicines,” Mandaviya said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/gujarat-reimposes-night-curfew-in-8-major-cities-till-year-end-101640021418402.html
20-12-2021||India||Lakshadweep admin ends decades-old system of school holiday on Fridays||Fridays will no longer be weekly holidays for school students in Muslim dominated Lakshadweep. The Lakshadweep Education Department has brought out a new calendar declaring Fridays working days and all Sundays holidays for schools in the islands, ending the decades-old privilege of the students for having Fridays as holidays in the islands on religious grounds. Lakshadweep MP Mohammed Faizal said ever since the schools were opened in islands for providing education for students some six decades ago, Friday was a holiday and Saturday up to half-day was a working day. He said this decision was taken without discussing it with any of the bodies of schools, the district panchayat or with the local MP. "Such a decision is not within the people's mandate. It is a unilateral decision of the administration", Faizal told PTI. He said whenever a change is brought into the local system, it must be discussed with the people. Official sources said the administration modified the school timings and regular school activities to ensure "optimum utilization of resources, proper engagement of learners and necessary planning of teaching learning process". P P Abbas, Vice President cum Counsellor of the Lakshadweep District Panchayat, wrote a letter to the Advisor to Administrator Praful Khoda Patel, requesting him to reconsider the order of the Education Department to address the sentiments of the students and parents. In his letter, he said that the ethnic population of Lakshadweep are Muslims and to their faith, Friday is a holiday and offering Juma Namaz on Friday is considered to be an unavoidable religious practice. He requested the administration to convene a meeting of elected representatives and other stakeholders to discuss the issue.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/lakshadweep-admin-ends-decades-old-system-of-school-holiday-on-fridays-101640020158521.html
20-12-2021||India||Delhi HC rejects plea seeking handover of Red Fort; adequate compensation||The Delhi High Court on Monday rejected the plea of a woman, claiming to be the widow of the great-grandson of last Mughal king Bahadur Shah Zafar, seeking direction to the Centre to hand over the Red Fort of Delhi to her or give adequate compensation.A bench of Justice Rekha Palli dismissed the plea saying that there is an inordinate delay while clarifying that it is not going into the merits. When the petitioner's counsel said that the client is illiterate and could not have approached the court, the judge said that this is no justification.The petitioner, Sultana Begum, stated that she is the rightful and legal heir of Mughal Badshah Bahadurshah Zafar II, the king of Delhi."In 1857, the last Mughal emperor Bahadur Shah Zafar was dethroned by the British East India Company and all of his assets were taken under custody by the British East India Company illegally. In 1960, the Government of India confirms the claim of late Bedar Bakht as descendent and heir of Bahadurshah Zafar II. In 1960, the Ministry of Home Affairs, Union of India started giving pension to Bedar Bakht, husband of the petitioner. On August 15, 1980, the Ministry of Home Affairs, Government of India started giving pensions to Sultana Begum, the current petitioner. The Government of India is giving so less as pension," the plea stated.The petitioner alleged that the Government of India is having illegal possession of the Red Fort which is the ancestral property of the petitioner and the government is not willing to give any compensation or possession of such property, which is a direct violation of the petitioner's fundamental right and constitutional right in Article 300 A as well as human rights, therefore, she begs to move the court under of the Constitution of India.Sultana Begum is the widow of Late Mirza Mohammed Bedar Bakht, great-grandson and legal and rightful heir of the last Mughal Emperor late Bahadur Shah Zafar II king of Delhi. On May 22, 1980, Mirza Muhammad Bedar Bakht died and on August 1, 1980, pension to Sultana Begum was granted by the Union Ministry of Home Affairs, New Delhi.The plea also sought direction to respondents to grant compensation to the petitioner from 1857 to till date for illegal possession by the Government of India.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/delhi-hc-rejects-plea-seeking-handover-of-red-fort-adequate-compensation-101640017765332.html
20-12-2021||India||HT THIS DAY: Dec 21, 1949 - Atomic Big Six Meet Behind Closed Doors||Gen. Romulo, President of the U.N. Gen Assembly, today called the atomic ‘big six” to give first priority to studying ways of reaching an interim agreement on banning atomic bomb production.Gen. Romulo presented several suggestions to Gen. McNaughton (chairman) when representatives of Britain, China, France, Russia, the U.S.A. and Canada met for the first time today to “explore all avenues and examine concrete suggestions” in an effort to reach agreement on atomic control as decided by the General Assembly at its last session. Gen. Romulo, in a letter to Gen. McNaughton, said: “I do not feel it I advisable for me to present any precise plan at this time.” He recalled that he had previously outlined the following three possible paths for exploration: (1) A short-term “armistice” accompanied by an inspection system.(2) An interim prohibition on use of atomic weapons, with adequate safeguards. (3) Further compromise between the majority and the minority plans for atomic energy control.Gen. Romulo said he still believed “all these approaches should be seriously pursued.”But his further suggestion concerning priority for a world ban on atomic bomb production was prompted by the “frightening rate” of the atomic armaments race.In a communique after their meeting the six Powers said it had been agreed in accordance with the General Assembly’s resolution that member States would be kept informed of the progress of their discussions. Periodic reports would, therefore, be issued, including summary records of the meetings, “whenever it is deemed appropriate to do so.”The ‘communique’ said that the practice of meeting behind closed door had been found beneficial and would be continued. The six Powers after their brief sitting adjourned until January 19.In addition to Gen. Romulo’s new appeal they also had before them a letter from Mr B. N. Rau, who proposed during the Assembly’s session that the problem of control be tackled by the International Law Commission. The Indian delegate’s letter was not made public immediately.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/htthis-day-dec-21-1949-atomic-big-six-meet-behind-closed-doors-101640017948015.html
20-12-2021||India||Delhi doctor gives insight into health of Omicron patients, oxygen and ICU need||Amid heightened concern over infection from Omicron variant, a Delhi hospital doctor said that patients with the new variant of concern are recovering well from mild symptoms without the need for oxygen or intensive care unit (ICU). Speaking to news agency ANI, Dr Suresh Kumar, managing director of Lok Nayak Jai Prakash Narayan (LNJP) Hospital, said only two of the 24 Omicron patients had mild symptoms while 12 of them recovered and have been discharged."The remaining 12 Omicron patients are recovering well and are stable. Only two patients had mild symptoms. One had mild fever and the other had slight weakness and loose motion. All other patients have no problem,” Kumar said, adding that everyone's oxygen level was normal.Amid heightened concern over infection from Omicron variant, a Delhi hospital doctor said that patients with the new variant of concern are recovering well from mild symptoms without the need for oxygen or intensive care unit (ICU). Speaking to news agency ANI, Dr Suresh Kumar, managing director of Lok Nayak Jai Prakash Narayan (LNJP) Hospital, said only two of the 24 Omicron patients had mild symptoms while 12 of them recovered and have been discharged."The remaining 12 Omicron patients are recovering well and are stable. Only two patients had mild symptoms. One had mild fever and the other had slight weakness and loose motion. All other patients have no problem,” Kumar said, adding that everyone's oxygen level was normal.|#+|The doctor said 60 incoming travellers from foreign countries are admitted at the LNJP hospital as Omicron suspects, noting that the rate of transmission of the new variant of concern has significantly increased.“However, the good thing is that no death has been reported, so far. Not a single patient out of 24 required oxygen support or ICU. All have been cured with mild treatments," he said.Omicron cases in Maha: Over 80% breakthrough infectionsKumar said that eight people were admitted to the LNJP hospital on Monday on suspicion of being infected with Omicron after they arrived from foreign countries. He told ANI that samples of all the suspected Omicron patients have been sent for genome sequencing.“Most of the patients infected with Omicron have a travel history including Africa, Europe, England and Dubai," Dr Kumar said, as quoted by ANI.LNJP is a designated hospital for the treatment of Omicron patients. Last week, the Delhi government four private hospitals into dedicated centres to treat Covid patients infected with Omicron variant. The four private hospitals are Sir Ganga Ram Hospital, Max Hospital in Saket, Fortis Hospital in Vasant Kunj and Batra Hospital in Tughlakabad.Union health minister Mansukh Mandaviya informed the Parliament that India has reported 161 Omicron cases so far.(With ANI inputs)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/delhi-doctor-gives-insight-into-health-of-omicron-patients-oxygen-and-icu-need-101640017278499.html
20-12-2021||India||No ‘clear evidence’ on Omicron transmissibility, Delta still variant of concern: INSACOG||The Indian SARS-CoV-2 Genomics Consortium (INSACOG) said on Monday it does not have “clear evidence” on the transmissibility, immune evasion or severity of the Omicron variant of the coronavirus in India.INSACOG, which consists of 10 central laboratories and 28 regional ones, said in its release Delta, which was the main reason for the global resurgence of Covid-19 this year, continues to be the main variant of concern. It also reiterated data is still insufficient to conclude whether the Omicron variant causes mild infection.The national multi-agency consortium of genome sequencing laboratories said it has been unable to determine, despite the presence of certain indicators, if the mild infections seen in the cases so far is due to prior infections or vaccination.“Cases have continued to increase in South Africa, with a smaller but clear rise in hospitalizations. Pending complete genomic sequencing, in the UK, S-gene target failure has shown a very rapid increase in likely Omicron cases and this would represent a significant growth advantage against Delta,” it added.Vaccine production, genomic sequencing to be ramped upUnion health minister Mansukh Mandaviya said earlier in the day India is ready to fight the Omicron spread 170 cases of the variant, which was first discovered in South Africa and is primarily responsible for the shutdowns Europe and the UK is currently facing, were reported from across the country.“The Centre is in constant and regular touch with states and experts on the matter to understand the effect of the variant on the population,” Mandaviya said.The Union health minister said India’s current capacity is 31 crore doses per month and the capacity will be increased to 45 crore doses per month in the next two months, according to news agency PTI.Laboratories conducting tests for Covid-19 have said they have the capacity to handle a higher number of samples for detection of the Omicron variant.Delhi’s main genome sequencing laboratories—Institute of Liver and Biliary Sciences (ILBS) and Lok Nayak Jaiprakash (LNJP) Hospital—will now handle all positive Covid-19 samples after Delhi chief minister Arvind Kejriwal said his government is taking measures to further identify if the Omicron or older variants are causing the new infections.“We can handle 1,000 samples per week. Though the daily cases have increased in the last couple of days, only about the capacity of 500 samples per week is being used. So, at present, we have sufficient capacity. As the need arises, we will double it,” a person familiar with the developments at the LNJP Hospital told news agency PTI.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/no-clear-evidence-on-omicron-transmissibility-delta-still-variant-of-concern-insacog-101640016843189.html
20-12-2021||India||In PM Modi’s Prayagraj visit tomorrow, focus is on women's empowerment||PM Modi will visit Uttar Pradesh, which is scheduled to hold assembly elections early next year, twice after Tuesday.He has already been to the poll-bound Uttar Pradesh, India’s most populous and politically crucial state, a number of times this month to launch big-ticket infrastructure projects, including Kashi Vishwanath Corridor in his parliamentary constituency of Varanasi.Also read | Yogi reviews preparations for PM’s Prayagraj visitThe Prime minister has visited Uttar Pradesh six times in the past month and travelled to Gorakhpur, Sultanpur, Varanasi, Jhansi, Greater Noida and Balrampur to unveil projects. He was also in the state capital of Lucknow for the directors general of police (DGPs) conference.PM Modi will visit Uttar Pradesh, which is scheduled to hold assembly elections early next year, twice after Tuesday.He has already been to the poll-bound Uttar Pradesh, India’s most populous and politically crucial state, a number of times this month to launch big-ticket infrastructure projects, including Kashi Vishwanath Corridor in his parliamentary constituency of Varanasi.Also read | Yogi reviews preparations for PM’s Prayagraj visitThe Prime minister has visited Uttar Pradesh six times in the past month and travelled to Gorakhpur, Sultanpur, Varanasi, Jhansi, Greater Noida and Balrampur to unveil projects. He was also in the state capital of Lucknow for the directors general of police (DGPs) conference.|#+|The Prime Minister’s Office (PMO) said in a release the programme in Prayagraj is being held as per PM Modi’s “vision to empower women, especially at the grassroots level, by providing them with the necessary skills, incentives, and resources.”“This transfer is being done under the Deendayal Antyodaya Yojana - National Rural Livelihood Mission (DAY-NRLM), with 80,000 SHGs receiving Community Investment Fund (CIF) of Rs. 1.10 lakh per SHG and 60,000 SHGs receiving Revolving Fund of Rs. 15000 per SHG,” the PMO said.Also read | Just one expressway in Uttar Pradesh till 2017, six being built now: Yogi AdityanathThe Prime Minister will also transfer a sum of ₹4,000 as the first month's stipend in the account of 20,000 business correspondent-Sakhis (BC-Sakhis) to encourage them.When BC-Sakhis commence their work as providers of doorstep financial services at the grassroots level, they are paid a stipend of ₹4,000 for six months, so that they get stabilised in their work and then start earning through the commission on transactions, the PMO said.Also read | Preparations on for PM Modi’s proposed visit to Prayagraj on Dec 21PM Modi will also transfer an amount of over ₹20 crore to more than 1 lakh beneficiaries under the Mukhya Mantri Kanya Sumangala Scheme. The scheme provides conditional cash transfer to a girl child at different stages of her life. The total transfer is ₹15,000 per beneficiary. "The stages are at birth ( ₹2000), on completing one-year complete vaccination ( ₹1000), on admission in class-I ( ₹2000), On admission in class-VI ( ₹2000), on admission in class-IX (Rs. 3000), on admission in any degree/ diploma course after passing class X or XII ( ₹5000)," the PMO said in its release.The Prime Minister will also lay the foundation stone of 202 Supplementary Nutrition Manufacturing Units."These units are being funded by the Self Help Groups and will be constructed at the cost of approx ₹1 crore for one unit. These units will supply Supplementary Nutrition under the Integrated Child Development Scheme (ICDS) in 600 blocks of the state," the PMO statement said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/in-pm-modi-s-prayagraj-visit-tomorrow-focus-is-on-women-s-empowerment-101640015921843.html
20-12-2021||India||Himachal cabinet gives nod to revise pay scale of 200,000 state govt employees||Following Himachal Pradesh chief minister Jairam Thakur’s promise to revise the pay of state government employees, the cabinet on Monday approved revised pay scales for close to 200,000 employees with effect from January 1, 2016.“Today in the state cabinet meeting, we decided to provide revised pay scale to about two lakh employees from January 1, 2016 and increase the pay scale of contract employees,” Thakur tweeted.The new pay would be granted to the employees in the salary for the month of January 2022, which is payable in February 2022, news agency ANI reported citing state urban development minister Suresh Bhardwaj.Also read | 6th Himachal Finance Commission seeks extension of term“Due to this, an additional burden of four thousand crore rupees will be put on the state exchequer every year. The state government has already provided interim relief of about five thousand crore rupees to the employees in the form of arrears,” a statement from the chief minister’s office (CMO) said.The Himachal Pradesh cabinet clearance to the new pay scales came ahead of the assembly elections in the hill state next year. On November 27, CM Thakur announced the revised pay during a meeting of the Joint Coordination Committee (JCC) of the Himachal Pradesh non-gazetted employees federation.During the meeting, Thakur also said the regularisation period for contractual employees of the state would be reduced to two years from the existing three years.Among other measures taken meeting on Monday, the state cabinet said the Ayurvedic Health Centre at Bassi in the Naina Devi Ji Vidhan Sabha area and open health sub-centres at various Gram Panchayats would be upgraded.It also gave its nod to the draft of Swarn Jayanti Gram Swarojgar (Parivahan) Yojna to allow unemployed youth to ply 18 seater vehicles on these routes at concessional tax rates. The scheme is intended to provide mobility in rural areas and for providing employment to rural youth.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/himachal-cabinet-gives-nod-to-revise-pay-scale-of-200-000-state-govt-employees-101640015715639.html
20-12-2021||India||PM Modi, Putin hold ‘follow-up’ phone call; discuss ways to boost bilateral cooperation||Prime Minister Narendra Modi and Russian President Vladimir Putin on Monday discussed ways to take forward bilateral cooperation in several key areas, including defence, supply of fertilisers and India’s role in developing Russia’s Far East. The two leaders had a telephone conversation to follow up on their discussions during Putin’s visit to India earlier this month for the annual bilateral summit. At the summit on December 6, India and Russia agreed to enhance cooperation and coordination on bilateral and multilateral issues, including trade and investment and the situation in Afghanistan. The two sides also signed nearly 30 agreements, including one for the programme for defence cooperation during 2021-31, and concluded a deal for India’s procurement of more than 600,000 AK-203 assault rifles. “Spoke with my friend, President Putin, to follow up on our discussions during his recent visit to India. We agreed on the way forward for enhancing India-Russia cooperation, including in supply of fertilizers. We also discussed recent international developments,” Modi said in a tweet. An Indian government statement said the two leaders followed up on some of the issues discussed during Putin’s visit. “The exchange today helped firm up the future course of action on these issues, including opportunities for furthering defence cooperation, cooperation in supply of fertilizers [and] enhancement of India’s engagement with the Russian Far East,” it said. “The conversation also allowed an exchange of views on international issues,” the statement said, adding that the leaders agreed to deepen bilateral cooperation and consultation and coordination at multilateral forums. A readout from the Russian side said the two leaders discussed “practical aspects of implementing the agreements reached at the talks” on December 6 and “expressed mutual intent for the further multifaceted development of relations of the special and privileged strategic partnership between Russia and India”. They also exchanged “views on issues of international stability and security, including the situation in the Asia-Pacific region”, the readout said. Putin thanked Modi for the hospitality extended to the Russian delegation during the visit to New Delhi. The two leaders congratulated each other on the upcoming New Year holidays and “agreed to intensify bilateral contacts in various spheres”, the readout added. India and Russia had also held their first 2+2 dialogue of defence and foreign ministers on the same day as the bilateral summit. Russia continues to be a key supplier of sophisticated defence hardware to India, and the first regiment of S-400 air defence systems ordered by New Delhi began arriving in the country at around the time of the summit.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/pm-modi-putin-hold-follow-up-phone-call-discuss-range-of-issues-101640016029223.html
20-12-2021||India||News updates from HT: PM Modi stresses importance of ties with Central Asian nations, and all the latest news||Here are today’s top news, analysis and opinion. Know all about the latest news and other news updates from Hindustan Times.PM Modi underscores importance of ties with Central Asian nations in meeting with FMsIndia attaches importance to its relations with the five Central Asian states, which are part of the country’s extended neighbourhood and connectivity is key to enhancing economic cooperation with the region, Prime Minister Narendra Modi said on Monday. Read more…Opened vials of Covaxin can be stored for up to 28 days: Bharat BiotechBharat Biotech on Monday announced that opened vials of its vaccine against coronavirus disease (Covid-19) can be stored at 2-8 degrees Celsius for up to 28 days and are not required to be discarded immediately in a day or at the end of the immunization session. Read more…Putin thanks PM Modi over phone call for hospitality, extends New Year greetingsRussian President Vladimir Putin on Monday held a telephonic conversation with Prime Minister Narendra Modi, thanking him for the hospitality extended to the Moscow delegation during a high-level visit to New Delhi earlier this month, Kremlin said. Read more…‘Aap logon kay burey din aayenge’: Jaya Bachchan loses her cool in Rajya Sabha, curses treasury benchesSamajwadi Party (SP) leader Jaya Bachchan was on Monday involved in a verbal spat with the treasury benches over an alleged "personal" remarks against her even as she asked the Chair not to take sides of any particular party. Read more…India vs South Africa: How have the Indian openers performed in the past Test series against the Proteas?South Africa remains one of the final few frontiers for Team India to conquer. They have beaten Australia in Australia, and that too twice, and will be on the verge of beating England in their own backyard until next year. But, this African nation continues to elude them. Read more…Spider-Man No Way Home box office day 4: At ₹108 crore, Tom Holland's film is highest-grossing Spidey movie in IndiaSpider-Man: No Way Home has entered the ₹100 crore club in just four days of its release at the Indian box office. The film collected ₹29.23 crore on its first Sunday, taking its total ₹108.37 crore at the domestic box office. Read more…||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/news-updates-from-ht-pm-modi-stresses-importance-of-ties-with-central-asian-nations-and-all-the-latest-news-101640012262763.html
20-12-2021||India||Construction, demolition waste management: Delhi makes strides but gaps remain||New Delhi: India generates an estimated 150 million tons of construction and demolition (C&D) waste every year but the recycling capacity is just around 1 per cent of the waste, an analysis by the Centre for Science and Environment (CSE) shows.
20-12-2021||India||Why real-time source apportionment data could help Delhi combat air pollution||By summer next year, Delhi could start receiving monthly and daily data on the biggest sources of pollution plaguing the capital on any given day, with a real-time source apportionment study being sanctioned by the Delhi government in October this year. In its Memorandum of Understanding (MoU), which was signed with IIT Delhi, IIT Kanpur, the Energy and Resources Institute (TERI) and IISER Delhi – the government specified the need to identify real-time sources of pollution so corrective action could be taken across the most polluting sectors on each day. Experts say once daily reports begin, this could not only indicate how successful corrective measures have been, but also which sectors require the most action in the long-term.
20-12-2021||India||Bengal govt to celebrate Christmas in all districts; BJP sees a link to Goa poll||KOLKATA: The West Bengal government will celebrate Christmas in all districts, especially in places with old churches, chief minister Mamata Banerjee announced on Monday.“Till now our government has been celebrating Christmas only in Kolkata. We have decided to increase its ambit. I am asking all police commissariats in the districts, right from Cooch Behar to Jhargram, to organise celebrations this year. This should be done especially in places where old churches are located,” Banerjee said while inaugurating a Christmas carnival at Allen Park in South Kolkata’s Park Street on Monday evening.Banerjee made the announcement in the presence of Kolkata’s archbishop Thomas D’Souza who, while addressing the audience, congratulated the chief minister on the TMC’s victory in the recent assembly polls and credited Banerjee with maintaining religious harmony in the state.“On behalf of the Christian community I want to congratulate our beloved chief minister on your victory in May, a victory in September (the assembly by-polls) and this is the first time, I myself was privileged to vote a third time, that was yesterday (the Kolkata civic body polls) and I am sure again the victory will be there. We want to thank you for the leadership you have given to the whole state and we feel secure and safe under your leadership. This is the message of Christmas. Peace is the result of love. Truth, patience and service, not any type of communalism or division, both in words and in action,” archbishop D’Souza said in his speech.Opposition parties promptly drew a connection between the announcement and the elaborate plans of the Trinamool Congress (TMC) to contest the Goa assembly elections early next year. The chief minister and her nephew, TMC national general secretary Abhishek Banerjee, have already visited Goa twice. Abhishek Banerjee is scheduled to pay another visit during the year-end.Christians account for a very small proportion of Bengal’s population. According to the 2011 census, they made up for only 0.72 % of the state’s population against 70.54 % Hindus and 27.01 % Muslims.In Goa, where Bengal’s ruling TMC hopes to make inroads in next year’s state elections, Christians (25.1%) are the second-largest religious community after Hindus who account for 66.08% of the state’s population, according to the 2011 decadal headcount. Muslims follow next, at 8.33%.In her speech at the event in Kolkata on Monday, Mamata Banerjee did make references to Goa.“We will celebrate Christmas everywhere, from the Vatican to Goa and from Goa to Kolkata. I was recently talking to the Archbishop in Goa and I mentioned our St Xavier’s college,” said Banerjee.“We have to be united. We have to love all the communities, castes and creeds. Our country will be strong if unity is strong. If unity is not strong we will fall,” said Banerjee, mentioning portions from the Vedas and the national anthem.The Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) accused the chief minister of double standards for electoral gains in Goa.“On one hand she is trying to appease the minority Christians but on the other, she is opposing the Citizenship Amendment Act that guarantees permanent Indian citizenship for Christians who are forced to leave Bangladesh and Pakistan because of religious persecution,” Bengal BJP’s chief spokesperson Samik Bhattacharya said.The TMC’s campaign in Goa is led by Luizinho Faleiro, a former chief minister, who exited the Congress in September this year to join Mamata Banerjee’s party. On Monday, another Congress lawmaker in Goa, Aleixo Reginaldo Lourenco, resigned from his party and reached Kolkata. TMC leaders said he will join their party this week.The TMC government has been sponsoring the celebrations at Allen Park since 2011 when Banerjee ousted the Left Front government. The carnival, an integral part of the event that continues till New Year’s Day, was, however, not held last year because of the Covid pandemic.Before the 2019 Lok Sabha polls, Banerjee also announced a project under which old temples, churches and mosques are protected and restored with government funds.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/bengal-govt-to-celebrate-christmas-in-all-districts-bjp-sees-a-link-to-goa-polls-101640012367560.html
20-12-2021||India||Banks recovered ₹13,100 crore from assets sale of defaulters like Vijay Mallya, Nirav Modi: Nirmala Sitharaman||Finance Minister Nirmala Sitharaman on Monday said that banks have recovered ₹13,109.17 crore from asset sale of fugitives like Vijay Mallya, Nirav Modi and Mehul Choksi.She said this while replying to a discussion on the second batch of Supplementary Demands for Grants which was approved by the Lok Sabha amid uproar by the Opposition over various issues.The Supplementary Demands for Grants authorised the government to spend an additional ₹3.73 lakh crore during the current fiscal.The extra spending includes an infusion of over ₹62,000 crore into the company that holds residual assets and liabilities of Air India, ₹58,430 crore by way of additional fertiliser subsidy, ₹53,123 crore towards payment of pending export incentives and ₹22,039 crore to rural development ministry for transfer to the National Rural Employment Guarantee Fund.Speaking on the banks' recovery from wilful defaulters, she said that a total of ₹13,109.17 crore has been recovered from the asset sales of Vijay Mallya, Nirav Modi and Mehul Choksi as of July 2021 as per the information provided by the Enforcement Directorate (ED).The latest recovery was ₹792 crore from the sale of assets belonging to Mallya and others on July 16, 2021, she added.Responding to various issues, including price rise, raised by the Opposition during the debate, she said the government is taking measures to cool down prices of edible oil and other essential commodities."We are taking measures through the EGOM (Empowered Group of Ministers) for taking care of essential goods. We will attend to the problem of edible oil price and also some of the essential edible items," she said."Public sector banks together have effected a recovery of about ₹5.49 lakh crore over the last seven financial years. So, these people who are defaulters, who have fled the country, we have got their money back and put it to the public sector banks and therefore the banks are safer today," she said.She further said that the depositors' money are safer in public sector banks.On the states' financial position, the Finance Minister said that the Centre in the first eight months of the fiscal has already transferred 86.4 per cent of what was provided in the full year 2019-20.From the National Disaster Response Fund (NDRF), "funds are being provided and providing an extra ₹15,000 crore for emergency COVID-19 response. The financial position of the states is also reflected in the fact that the overall cash balance of states as on November 30, 2021 was ₹3.08 lakh crore approximately, fairly comfortable positions", she said.She further said that the states are having substantial cash balance with them and there are only a few exceptions.Out of 28 states, she said, only two states are having negative cash balance.Talking about Supplementary Demands for Grants, Sitharaman said that additional expenditure is of ₹ ₹3.73 lakh crore.Of which, she said, ₹2.99 lakh crore is the additional cash outgo because of big ticket expenditure going for Air India and rise in fertilizer subsidy due to firming up of global prices."We have to ensure that the farmers don't suffer because of it (rise in global prices). And therefore, increase in the subsidy for fertiliser has been provided, which itself is accounting for ₹58,431 crore," she said.Sitharaman also said that the government has so far paid around ₹93,685 crore since 2014 for oil bonds.The government will have to pay till 2026 when oil bonds matures, she said.Quoting former Prime Minister Manmohan Singh, she said, "I would like the nation to remember that issuing bonds and loading deficits on oil companies is not a permanent solution to this problem. We are only passing our burden to our children who will have to repay this debt."As per the Supplementary Demands for Grants, there would be net cash outgo of over ₹2.99 lakh crore, and ₹74,517 crore extra expenditure would be matched by savings by different ministries.As per the document, ₹62,057 crore would be given to the Civil Aviation Ministry for equity infusion in Air India Assets Holding Company (AIAHL) for repayment of past government guaranteed borrowing and past dues/liabilities of Air India.As per the supplementary demands for grants, an additional ₹2,628 crore would be given towards loans and advances to Air India for recoupment of advance from Contingency Fund of India.Besides, the Department of Food and Public Distribution would be given an additional ₹49,805 crore for meeting expenditure towards various schemes of food storage and warehousing.About ₹2,400 crore would be given to Department of Commerce for meeting expenditure towards subsidies under the 'Interest Equalisation Scheme’, and Investment under the Export Credit Guarantee Corporation (ECGC) scheme, among others.Another over ₹5,000 crore and over ₹4,000 crore has been earmarked for additional spending by the ministries of Defence and Home, respectively.The 2021-22 Budget had projected the government's total expenditure at ₹34.83 lakh crore. But this is expected to overshoot considering the two batches of supplementary demands for grants presented by the government so far.The government had in August received Parliament nod for net additional spending of ₹23,675 crore in the first batch of supplementary demands for grants.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/banks-recovered-rs-13-100-crore-from-assets-sale-of-defaulters-like-vijay-mallya-nirav-modi-nirmala-sitharaman-101640012002873.html
20-12-2021||India||PM Modi underscores importance of ties with Central Asian nations in meeting with FMs||India attaches importance to its relations with the five Central Asian states, which are part of the country’s extended neighbourhood and connectivity is key to enhancing economic cooperation with the region, Prime Minister Narendra Modi said on Monday.Modi spoke of the importance of India’s relations with Kazakhstan, Kyrgyzstan, Tajikistan, Turkmenistan and Uzbekistan when the foreign ministers of the five countries jointly met him. The foreign ministers were in India for the third edition of the India-Central Asia Dialogue with their counterpart S Jaishankar.Jaishankar and National Security Adviser Ajit Doval were also present at the meeting between Modi and the foreign ministers.Modi “emphasised the importance that India attaches to its long-standing relations with [the] Central Asian countries, which are part of its ‘extended neighbourhood’”, an official statement said. “He also underscored the potential of enhanced economic cooperation between India and Central Asia, and the role of connectivity in that regard,” the statement added.Modi also conveyed his felicitations to the ministers on the 30th anniversary of the independence of the Central Asian states. He recalled his visit to all the Central Asian states in 2015 and subsequently to Kazakhstan, Uzbekistan and Kyrgyzstan.He also pointed to the importance of maintaining cultural and people-to-people contacts between India and Central Asia, in view of the popularity of Indian films, music and yoga in the region.The India-Central Asia Dialogue has given impetus to the “excellent bilateral relations between India and Central Asian countries”, the statement said. The visiting ministers briefed Modi on their deliberations during the dialogue, which focused on trade, connectivity, development partnership and regional developments, including the situation in Afghanistan.According to a joint statement issued after the dialogue on Sunday, India and the Central Asian states pushed for concerted action against all terror groups, saying Afghanistan’s soil must not be used for planning or financing terror attacks. They also pledged to provide immediate humanitarian aid to the Afghan people.The fallout of the Taliban takeover of Kabul on regional security, post-pandemic recovery and measures to boost regional connectivity and trade were discussed during the dialogue. India welcomed the interest shown by the Central Asian states in using a terminal at Iran’s Chabahar port, which is operated by an Indian company, for trade. Top security officials of all the Central Asian states attended a regional conference on Afghanistan hosted by India on November 10. The leaders of the five Central Asian countries are expected to be chief guests at next year’s Republic Day celebrations, reflecting the importance attached by India to the region. 
20-12-2021||India||Gay couple ties the knot in Hyderabad, say no permission needed for ‘happiness’||Touted as the 'first' wedding of gay men in Telangana, Supriyo Chakraborty and Abhay Dang, entered into wedlock making their nearly decade-long relationship official. Supriyo said the wedding has sent out a strong message to everybody that no one's permission was needed to be happy. The gay men are believed to be first gay couple of Telangana. Though the marriage could not be registered, the ceremony was sheer celebration of being together along with family and friends, he added. Supriyo and Abhay aged 31 and 34 respectively, exchanged rings and took vows at a marriage ceremony that took place in a resort near here on Saturday. The ceremony was officiated by gay couple's friend Sophia David, who is also from the LGBTQ community. On the occasion, the gay men celebrated their togetherness with close friends and family members. Supriyo told PTI: "It was a two-day (December 17 and 18) event. It was an event where all our close friends and families were there. We started with Mehndi and Sangeet. Me and Abhay are from different states. He (Abhay) is Punjabi and I am Bengali. We tried to put in all the essence possible...including the dresses we were wearing. On Saturday we had a Haldi ceremony and Sophia David officated our wedding." Supriyo and Abhay, professionals in hospitality and information technology sectors respectively, met through an online dating app in 2012 and have been living together since then. Supriyo said the wedding celebrations was to "celebrate our union," with friends and family. Once the same sex marriages are legalised in the country they would register their wedding, he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/gay-couple-ties-the-knot-in-hyderabad-say-no-permission-needed-for-happiness-101640010823196.html
20-12-2021||India||Delhi’s rural villages face an urbanisation challenge||In 2013, the union government notified the land pooling policy for planned development in Delhi’s rural areas, looking to meet a growing housing requirement.
20-12-2021||India||‘Aap logon kay burey din aayenge’: Jaya Bachchan loses her cool in Rajya Sabha, curses treasury benches||Samajwadi Party (SP) leader Jaya Bachchan was on Monday involved in a verbal spat with the treasury benches over an alleged "personal" remarks against her even as she asked the Chair not to take sides of any particular party.Jaya Bachchan's remarks came when she was asked by the Chair to participate in the discussion on the 'Narcotic Drugs and Psychotropic Substances (Amendment) Bill, 2021.The member of Parliament called out the Chair presided by Bhubaneswar Kalita for not listening to the opposition side."I don't want to thank you because I don't know whether I should remember when you used to walk into the Well shouting...or today when you are sitting in the chair," she said when called to speak on the bill.A verbal spat started after Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) lawmaker Rakesh Sinha objected to Bachchan’s remarks against the Chair.As chaos ensued, she alleged that personal remarks were made against her. "I expect you to take action on the comment he made on me and my career. You want to be fair. You are sitting on the chair, you don't belong to any party, sir," she said."How can they make personal remarks in the House? Aap logon kay burey din aayenge (Your bad days will come soon), I curse you," she said.Kalita urged Bachchan to confine herself to the Bill being debated as she responded by saying that efforts were being made to stifle the voice of opposition members. He also announced that the remarks which were not suitable would be expunged from the record.As the situation almost seemed out of control, Kalitha adjourned the House till 5 pm, the third adjournment of the day.(With agency inputs)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/jaya-bachchan-loses-her-cool-in-rajya-sabha-curses-treasury-benches-101640009716326.html
20-12-2021||India||NC rejects Delimitation Commission draft report, lashes out at Union minister||The National Conference said on Monday it will not be a signatory to the draft report of the Delimitation Commission on Jammu and Kashmir in its present form after the panel proposed six additional assembly seats for the Jammu region and one for Kashmir.The National Conference also lashed out at Union minister of state in the Prime Minister’s Office (PMO) Jitendra Singh for claiming its leaders were “satisfied” by the parameters followed by the Delimitation Commission calling it “malicious".“Misrepresenting and distorting the facts with malicious intention! Very misleading statement. We have clearly expressed our resentment over the draft of the Delimitation Commission, the biased process of seat sharing. The party will NOT be a signatory to this report,” the NC said on Twitter.The panel, which is headed by former Supreme Court judge Ranjana Desai, held its second meeting on Monday in New Delhi. After Monday’s meeting, the assembly seats rose to 43 in the Jammu region and 47 in the Kashmir region, people familiar with the developments told news agency PTI.It has also proposed reserving 16 constituencies for Scheduled Castes and Scheduled Tribes.The People’s Democratic Party, Jammu and Kashmir Apni Party and the People's Conference have also protested against the draft recommendations which will shape the electoral map of Jammu and Kashmir.Three Lok Sabha members of the NC with party chief Farooq Abdullah attended the commission’s second meeting for the first time along with Union minister Singh and Bharatiya Janata Party’s Jugal Kishore Sharma. The commission earlier met in February.“The associated members regardless of their party and political affiliations not only appreciated the work done by the Delimitation Commission but also committed that they would in the future also extend their cooperation for the rest of the exercise,” Singh was quoted as saying by news agency ANI.The panel has been formed by the Centre in order to ensure the delimitation of assembly and parliamentary constituencies in the Union territory of Jammu and Kashmir.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/nc-rejects-delimitation-commission-draft-report-lashes-out-at-union-minister-101640007848467.html
20-12-2021||India||Come up with concrete instructions on fate of Rohingyas in jails: Gauhati HC tells Assam govt||The Gauhati High Court has directed the Assam government to issue ‘concrete instructions’ on the fate of 12 Rohingyas lodged in two jails for the past 12 years. The division bench of justices N Kotiswar Singh and Malasri Nandi issued the order last week on two separate petitions filed by the Rohingyas who hail from Myanmar seeking either refugee status in India or deportation to the neighbouring nation. “Since the petitioners have been languishing in jail for a long time, this court would not expect any further delay in the actions to be taken by the state authorities and would expect that the state government would come up with concrete instructions by the next date,” the order issued on December 16 read. The court issued the directions following a request by Anita Verma, special counsel for foreigners’ tribunals in Assam, seeking two weeks by the Assam government on either to grant refugee status or deport the petitioners back to Myanmar. The matter will come up for hearing again on January 10 next year. One of the petitions was filed in 2017 by 10 Rohingyas, who belong to two related families, and are lodged in Tezpur jail in central Assam, which also houses other foreigners, for several years. The petitioners - Saidur Rahman, his wife Tahara Begum and their three children, his brother Mahmad Ulla, his wife Rumana Begum and their three children - belong to Coundang village in Buthidaung of Rakhine state of Myanmar. They were arrested for entering India in 2009 without valid documents and though they have served the sentences of 6 months imposed for illegal entry to the country, they have been languishing in jail without release. The other petition was filed in 2017 by Azizul Haque (a Rohingya from Myanmar) and Md Habib Ullah (whose nationality is yet to be ascertained)—both lodged in the Goalpara district jail, seeking deportation to Myanmar. Like the previous case, they too were arrested in 2009 for entering India illegally without valid documents and were sentenced to 6 months imprisonment but despite serving their sentences, they are still lodged in jail. 
20-12-2021||India||Govt: Over 2,000 people lost lives in natural disasters in 2021-22||Over 2,000 people lost their lives due to cyclonic storms, heavy rains, floods and landslides during 2021-22, the government said on Monday.According to data shared by the Jal Shakti Ministry in response to a question in Rajya Sabha, Maharashtra accounted for the highest number of deaths at 489, followed by 162 each in Gujarat and Uttar Pradesh.A total of 2,002 people lost their lives due to cyclonic storms, heavy rains, floods and landslides during 2021-22, the data stated.Responding to another question, Union Jal Shakti Minister Gajendra Singh Shekhawat said under the Namami Ganga Programme, so far, 357 projects have been sanctioned at an estimated cost of ₹30,780 crore. Of these, 178 projects have been completed and made operational.In a written response, Shekhawat said 157 sewerage infrastructure projects from among these have been taken up with a sanctioned cost of ₹24,249 crore for the creation and rehabilitation of 4,952 million litres per day (MLD) of sewage treatment plant (STP) capacity and laying of 5,212 km sewerage network."Out of these, 74 projects have been completed, resulting in creation and rehabilitation of 1,092 MLD of STP capacity and laying of 3,752 km sewerage network," he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/govt-over-2-000-people-lost-lives-in-natural-disasters-in-202122-101640006129255.html
20-12-2021||India||‘Appeasement politics’: MoS Home Nityanand Rai raps Kerala govt on twin murders||Minister of State for Home Nityanand Rai on Monday asked the Kerala government to ensure a fair investigation into the murder of Bharatiya Janata Party’s OBC Morcha leader Renjith Sreenivasan and said its “appeasement politics” was helping fundamentalist forces.The minister rushed to the state to pay homage to Sreenivasan who was hacked to death in his home in Alappuzha on Sunday allegedly by Social Democratic Party of India (SDPI) workers. SDPI state secretary KS Shan was allegedly killed by RSS-BJP workers on Saturday night and Sreenivasan was killed in an alleged retaliatory attack, police said.“The ongoing investigation is not on the right track. We want a fair investigation and all culprits should be booked. The state government is indulging in appeasement politics which really helped fundamentalist and criminal forces,” he said after paying tributes to the slain leader. He said over 200 BJP workers were killed in the state in the past few years.He said the left front government was trying to dent the popularity of the BJP and resorted to all tricks including protecting people who were involved in the recent killings of two party leaders. Another RSS-BJP leader S Sanjith was stabbed to death two weeks back by an alleged group of SDPI activists in Palakkad. He said the union government was ready for a central agency probe into recent killings if the state was willing. When asked about the SDPI leader’s murder, he refused to comment.The back-to-back political killings within 12 hours shook the state bringing police on their toes. After the twin murder, prohibitory order (Section 144) was clamped in the district and police stepped up vigil to avert further clashes. “We have arrested two persons in connection with the murder of the SDPI leader. And we identified all who participated in the killing of the BJP leader. Both cases will be cracked in a couple of days,” said Additional Director General of Police Vijay Sakhre who is supervising the special investigation team.More than 50 persons were detained in connection with both incidents, he said. The SDPI leader’s body was buried on Sunday and Renjth Sreenivasan’s body was cremated on Monday.Shan was a businessman while Sreenivasan was a lawyer. “Please don’t orphan families in the name of politics. Brutal murder is no answer to political differences. Shan has two minor children and I heard the BJP leader’s daughters were also young. Both families have been orphaned. And this is happening in a state like Kerala. It is a shame,” said H Salim, father of the slain SDPI leader.“He was murdered before my eyes. I pleaded with them not to harm my son but I was threatened and they continued to stab him,” said the mother of Sreenivasan. He was attacked by assailants in his home in the early hours of Sunday.Reports of what is dubbed as revenge political killings often arise from North Kerala’s Kannur which witnessed over 250 murders in last three decades between (CPIM) and RSS. Known as ‘Kannur-model killings’, such eye for eye and tooth for tooth politics, which was previously confined to Kannur, started spilling over to other parts of the state. “In north Kerala parties protect killer squads and usually after every murder the accused list will be provided by respective parties helping real killers to go scot free. Unless parties disown these criminal gangs blood bath will continue. It is sad it is spreading to other areas also,” said political observer and writer Umesh Babu. 
20-12-2021||India||Bharat Biotech seeks trial for intranasal Covid-19 vaccine booster||Indian vaccine maker Bharat Biotech said on Monday it has submitted an application to the country's drug regulator to conduct a late-stage trial for a booster dose of its intranasal Covid-19 vaccine.Indian Covid-19 vaccine makers are lobbying the government to authorise boosters as supplies have far outstripped demand, but the health ministry said there is no immediate plan to approve boosters and the priority remains complete vaccination of eligible adults."We have submitted phase 3 clinical trial application to DCGI (Drugs Controller General of India)," a Bharat Biotech spokesperson said in a statement, adding that an intranasal vaccine as a booster dose will be easier to administer in mass vaccination campaigns.India is yet to approve the use of Bharat Biotech's intranasal vaccine, BBV154. In August, BBV154 had received regulatory approval for mid- to late-stage trials. Local media had reported that the mid-stage trial has been completed.Covaxin, the company's Covid-19 vaccine already approved for emergency-use approval in the county, is administered through an injection.Coronavirus cases in India have fallen sharply since a devastating second wave earlier this year. The South Asian nation has detected over 100 cases of the Omicron variant so far.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/bharat-biotech-seeks-trial-for-intranasal-covid-19-vaccine-booster-101640004360427.html
20-12-2021||India||How prisoner Sukesh Chandrashekhar pulled off a ₹200 crore heist||Lodged inside Delhi’s high-security Rohini jail, Sukesh Chandrashekhar hit national headlines by pulling off a ₹200 crore con, duping Aditi Singh, the wife of former Ranbaxy promoter Shivinder Mohan. But how did this happen?
20-12-2021||India||Keeping up With UP | The family reconciliation that may change UP’s politics||It was the uncanniest of coincidences, perhaps the kind only Indian, and the politics of Uttar Pradesh in particular, can throw up. On December 16, UP Chief Minister Yogi Adityanath was speaking in the Uttar Pradesh assembly, and took a swipe at his foremost competitor for the top chair, Akhilesh Yadav. He attacked him with an old and practised jibe, but one that would have hurt. “We respect our elders and do not throw out our father and uncle from the party,” Aditayanath said, referring to the seemingly never-ending family feuds within the top echelons of the Samajwadi Party. What Adityanath may not have known was that on the same day, Mulayam Singh Yadav, the founder member of the Samajwadi Party was putting final touches of a script that had begun with handing over the legacy of the party to his son in 2012, but was now culminating in a long-awaited reconciliation between Akhilesh Yadav, and his uncle, the influential Shivpal Singh Yadav.
20-12-2021||India||NCERT trans training manual removed from website wasn’t final, Centre to LS||NEW DELHI: The training manual titled, ‘Inclusion of Transgender Children in School Education: Concerns and Roadmaps, was dropped by NCERT because it had to undergo various stages of finalisation before its release, the education ministry told Parliament on Monday.“It is an academic exercise which has to undergo various stages before it is made a public document and is used for training by different stakeholders,” junior education minister Annpurna Devi told the Lok Sabha in a written reply.“NCERT has been training teachers, teacher educators and school heads on gender sensitization with an all-inclusive approach. The concerns related to transgender children are addressed in different textual and training materials/manuals/modules,” she said in response to a question by Congress member of parliament Adhir Ranjan Chowdhury.Social Justice Matters | On gender, the conservative backlash hits classroomsThe National Council for Educational Research and Training (NCERT) on November 6 removed the teachers’ training manual on the integration of transgender or gender non-conforming students in schools from its website following a request by the National Commission for Protection of Child Rights (NCPCR).NCPCR chairperson, Priyank Kanoongo contended the text of the manual will expose children to “unnecessary psychological trauma” and the idea of removing binaries will supposedly contradict the idea of creating an inclusive environment.NCERT’s decision to remove the manual exposed the government body to sharp criticism from a Madras high court’s justice N Anand Venkatesh on December 6. The judge described the removal of the training manual a “very shocking development” and underlined that if someone really had a grievance, “the same should have been addressed in a proper manner through proper consultation and meetings, and no one can be allowed to arm twist a state-run council into forcibly withdrawing a material that came out after a long study by a committee”.“The report of an expert body after a detailed study cannot be dumped just because a handful of persons are opposed to this very idea of recognising persons belonging to the community,” justice Venkatesh said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/ncert-trans-training-manual-removed-from-website-wasn-t-final-centre-to-ls-101640004507232.html
20-12-2021||India||Over 50% fully jabbed against Covid-19, first dose coverage at 88%: Mansukh Mandaviya in Parliament||More than half of the country’s population has been fully vaccinated against Covid-19, Union health minister Mansukh Mandaviya informed the Rajya Sabha on Monday.Mandaviya said the vaccination of 130 crore people in the country was a big challenge compared to other countries with less population. “Still, due to the efforts of our health workers, 88% of the first dose and 58% of the second dose have been taken in the country,” the health minister said.The minister was addressing the lawmakers in the Upper House regarding the Covid-19 situation arising due to the Omicron (B.1.1.529) variant in the country.Also read | Omicron has created lockdown-like situation, avoid Christmas parties: BMC chiefHe also said states and Union territories have sufficient doses of vaccine available with them and the production capacity in the country would be ramped up in the next two months.“Today all states and UTs have adequate quantities of vaccines, 17 crore doses are available with them. Our manufacturing capacity has increased. Today India has the capacity to manufacture 31 crore doses of vaccine every month. In the next 2 months, it will further rise to 45 crore doses per month,” the minister said.Briefing on the Omicron variant, the minister noted that 161 confirmed cases have been identified so far from across the country.“We are monitoring the situation daily with experts. With our experience during the first and second waves (of Covid-19), to ensure that we do not face problems when variant spreads, we have arranged a buffer stock of important medicines,” he said.“To protect against Omicron, we have issued SOP (standard operating procedures) for travellers coming from abroad. I myself also interacted with the states, we are constantly assessing this variant with the expert team,” he added.Meanwhile, the cumulative number of doses administered under the country’s immunisation drive stood at 1,382,083,675, according to the Co-WIN dashboard at 5.05pm.As many as 6,563 people tested positive for the coronavirus disease and 132 people lost their lives in the last 24 hours, the Union health ministry said on Monday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/over-50-fully-jabbed-against-covid-19-first-dose-coverage-at-88-mansukh-mandaviya-in-parliament-101640000961068.html
20-12-2021||India||Chidambaram granted a day's exemption in Aircel-Maxis corruption case||Congress leader P Chidambaram was on Monday granted exemption for a day from appearing before a Delhi court in the Aircel Maxis deal case. Noting that the former Union minister was granted anticipatory bail in the matter earlier, the court allowed his exemption application for the day.His son, Karti Chidambaram, who is also out on anticipatory bail in the same case, was asked to file an application seeking regular bail after he appeared before the court.The Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI) and Enforcement Directorate (ED) have filed cases of corruption and money laundering against the Rajya Sabha MP.Special judge MK Nagpal granted the relief to Chidambaram after his lawyer Arshdeep Singh informed the court that he was not able to appear before it since he had a preplanned travelling schedule.The court also directed the probe agencies to supply copies of the charge sheet and documents to the accused and their lawyers. Earlier, the court had directed the CBI and the ED to file a status report in the Aircel Maxis case.The agencies have arrayed several individuals and firms as accused in the charge sheet.The accused appeared before the court in pursuance of summons issued against them after the court took cognisance of the charge sheets filed by probe agencies in the matter.The case relates to alleged irregularities in the grant of Foreign Investment Promotion Board approval in the Aircel-Maxis deal. The approval was granted in 2006 when Chidambaram was the Union finance minister. Agencies have alleged Chidambaram had granted approval to the deal beyond his capacity benefiting certain persons and received kickbacks while serving as the finance minister.(With inputs from agencies)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/chidambaram-granted-a-day-s-exemption-in-aircel-maxis-corruption-case-101640001159299.html
20-12-2021||India||Karnataka reports 5 more Omicron cases; travel history unknown||Five more cases of the Omicron variant of the coronavirus disease were reported in Karnataka on Monday, taking the total number of cases of the variant in the state to 19. The newly infected include a 54-year-old male from Dharwad, a 20-year-old female from Shivamoga, an 82-year-old male from Udupi, a 73-year-old female from Udupi and a 19-year-old female from Mangaluru (19-year-old female), according to a tweet by Karnataka health minister K Sudhakar on Monday morning. So far, cases of the new variants have been reported in Bengaluru, Belagavi, Dakshina Kannada, Dharwad, Udupi and Shivamogga districts. Many among those infected are double vaccinated with no travel history. However, all have either mild symptoms or are asymptomatic. In all five cases, authorities have not been able to identify travel or transmission history in the patients.The cases from Udupi and Mangaluru were part of the clusters which were sent for genomic sequencing, which confirmed the presence of Omicron. In the Udupi cluster, an 11 year-old-boy from the family tested positive in the last week of November following which four primary contacts were tested of whom three turned Covid positive and their samples were sent for genomic sequencing, said officials of the health department. The Dharwad woman who has been the first case of Omicron in the district tested positive for Covid-19 on December 5 and was treated in home isolation. She has been relieved from symptoms at present, as per the health department’s statement. She had four primary contacts and 133 secondary contacts who all underwent Covid testing and have tested negative. The Shivamoga patient tested positive on December 6. Total 218 contacts have undergone testing of which 26 have been found positive for Covid-19. The sequencing results of these patients are awaited.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/karnataka-reports-5-more-omicron-cases-travel-history-unknown-101640001207993.html
20-12-2021||India||Mansukh Mandaviya: 161 Omicron cases reported in India||India has reported 161 cases of new coronavirus variant Omicron, Union Health Minister Mansukh Mandaviya said on Monday."As of now, India has 161 Omicron cases...We are monitoring the situation daily with experts," the minister told Rajya Sabha while replying to a debate on the COVID-19 situation.He said the government has taken steps to deal with the situation if the virus spreads."With our experience during the first and second waves, to ensure that we don't face problems if variant spreads, we have arranged a buffer stock of important medicines."He said the states and union territories have an adequate quantity of vaccines against COVID-19 for vaccination drives, adding that the country's vaccine manufacturing capacity has also increased."Today all states and UTs have adequate quantity of vaccines, 17 crore doses available with them. Our manufacturing capacity has increased. Today India has the capacity to manufacture 31 crore doses of vaccine per month. In the next two months, it'll further rise to 45 crore doses per month," the minister said."Under PM Modi's leadership, with the efforts of our healthcare workers, 88 per cent of first doses of the COVID vaccine have been administered and 58 per cent of second doses administered so far. The majority of the population in India is vaccinated today.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/mansukh-mandaviya-161-omicron-cases-reported-in-india-101640000049251.html
20-12-2021||India||‘Arrogant king’: Navjot Singh Sidhu reacts to Punjab Lok Congress-BJP alliance||Punjab Congress chief Navjot Singh Sidhu on Monday launched a scathing attack on Punjab Lok Congress chief and former chief minister Captain Amarinder Singh days after he formed an alliance with the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) for next year’s assembly elections in the state.Sidhu also attacked the former senior Congress leader by labelling him as an “arrogant king”.“Captain said that doors have been closed for Sidhu, but today he is sitting at home and licking the feet of [Prime Minister Narendra] Modi,” Sidhu was quoted as saying by news agency ANI.Last Friday, Amarinder Singh announced an alliance of his Punjab Lok Congress with the BJP. The former Punjab chief minister met Union minister Gajendra Singh Shekhawat, who is also the BJP’s election-in-charge for the poll-bound state, to firm up the alliance.“We are ready and we are going to win this election. The decision on seat-sharing will be taken on a seat-to-seat basis, with winnability being the priority. We are 101% sure of winning this election,” Amarinder Singh said after the announcement of the alliance with the BJP.People familiar with the developments said the BJP is most likely to be the senior partner in the alliance. The people mentioned above also said that the Punjab Lok Congress may contest in at least 60 out of the 117 seats.Amarinder has also said both parties are in talks with Rajya Sabha member Sukhdev Singh Dhindsa’s Akali Dal (Sanyukt) and will meet soon to discuss seat sharing in the coming days.Singh played a decisive role in bringing the Congress to power in 2017 and the infighting and factionalism within the party as well as differences with Navjot Sidhu led to his exit.On November 2, Amarinder Singh quit Congress and later formed his own party.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/arrogant-king-navjot-singh-sidhu-reacts-to-punjab-lok-congress-bjp-alliance-101639999980407.html
20-12-2021||India||News updates from HT: Amid calls for resignation, MoS Teni skips event and all the latest news||Here are today’s top news, analysis and opinion. Know all about the latest news and other news updates from Hindustan Times.Ajay Mishra Teni skips event amid calls for his resignationMinister Teni was supposed to attend the SSB’s foundation day event in Delhi as a chief guest. But his ministerial colleague Nisith Pramanik instead attended the ceremony, which was closed for the media. Read more here. State govt fully alert: Nitish says Bihar ready to counter OmicronBihar chief minister Nitish Kumar said on Monday said the state’s health authorities are taking every measure to ensure cases of the Omicron variant of the coronavirus do not go undetected and efforts are being made to tackle any outbreak. Read more here. How bad is chip crisis? Well, Toyota to now halt production at five factoriesToyota expects the global shortage in semiconductor chip to persist well into 2022. Read more here. Ather Energy extends free charging at all Grids till June 30 next yearAther Energy had started the free charging facility at its EV charging network in September this year. Read more here. Pakistan legend Wasim Akram has his say on India's disappointing performance at T20 World Cup: 'They need to think back'Former Pakistan captain Wasim Akram has shared his thoughts on India's disappointing campaign at the T20 World Cup, which saw the Men in Blue fail to make it to the knockouts. Read more here. Katrina Kaif and Vicky Kaushal clasp hands as they enjoy stunning sea view from their new Juhu home. See photoKatrina Kaif took to Instagram Stories to share a picture of her and Vicky Kaushal standing on the balcony of their new home in Juhu and taking in the view. Read more here.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/news-updates-from-ht-amid-calls-for-resignation-mos-teni-skips-event-and-all-the-latest-news-101639999267476.html
20-12-2021||India||Prasar Bharati signs MoU to promote Indian culture, episodes to telecast on Doordarshan||Public broadcaster Prasar Bharati signed a memorandum of understanding on Monday with the Indian Council for Cultural Relations (ICCR) to promote Indian culture. It will be telecast on the national and international channels of Doordarshan.“The MoU aims to bring forth the best of Indian culture to the national and international audiences and provide TV and digital platforms to the performing artists. In collaboration with the ICCR, Doordarshan will produce 52 half-hour episodes, based on cultural events/concerts/performances of music/dance organized by the ICCR,” said the Ministry of Information and Broadcasting through a press release.The MoU will be in operation for the next three years from December 2021 to December 2024.The performances of eminent artists associated with the ICCR will be telecast on Doordarshan’s associated channels. “The dance and music performances will be showcased on DD National, DD India, regional channels of Doordarshan and Prasar Bharati News Services (Digital Platform of Prasar Bharati) in the form of a weekly programme,” the release further read.The memorandum was signed between Director Generals of Doordarshan and ICCR, Mayank Kumar Agrawal and Dinesh K Patnaik along with other senior members from both organizations.Previously, Prasar Bharati signed an MoU with the Ministry of Electronics and Information Technology to bring quality educational programmes to every household, including those in rural and remote areas.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/prasar-bharati-signs-mou-to-promote-indian-culture-episodes-to-telecast-on-doordarshan-101639999408694.html
20-12-2021||India||State govt fully alert: Nitish says Bihar ready to counter Omicron||Bihar chief minister Nitish Kumar said on Monday said the state’s health authorities are taking every measure to ensure cases of the Omicron variant of the coronavirus do not go undetected and efforts are being made to tackle any outbreak.Nitish Kumar also said there are no Omicron cases in the state currently and that authorities are conducting more than 5 lakh tests daily. “There is alertness in the state. We are prepared,” Kumar was quoted as saying by news agency ANI.“Arrangements have been made. Though there are no cases, you never know… Most numbers of per day tests are happening in the state, over 5 lakh tests being done (daily),” he further added.Last week, the Bihar government sent samples of travellers, who tested positive for Covid-19 after arriving in the state, for genomic sequencing. It has also ramped up contact tracing.“Whenever someone from Bihar comes back from abroad, the Centre informs us and we send health officials to do their Covid test,” Bihar health minister Mangal Pandey was quoted as saying by news agency PTI.India has so far recorded at least 170 cases of Omicron after Delhi Kerala, Karnataka and Maharashtra detected fresh cases of the variant on Monday. People infected with the variant have been detected in at least 12 states and Union territories in the country now - Maharashtra (54), Delhi (28), Rajasthan (17) and Karnataka (19), Telangana (20), Gujarat (11), Kerala (15), Uttar Pradesh (2), Andhra Pradesh (1), Chandigarh (1), Tamil Nadu (1) and West Bengal (1).Health experts have warned the highly transmissible Omicron could lead to a surge of infections amid fears that the variant may evade the effects of the vaccines, prompting governments worldwide to push for a booster dose.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/state-govt-fully-alert-nitish-says-bihar-ready-to-counter-omicron-101639998723872.html
20-12-2021||India||Diplomat Pradeep Rawat made next envoy to China: MEA||The Ministry of External Affairs (MEA) said on Monday diplomat Pradeep Kumar Rawat will be India's next Ambassador to China. Rawat, who will succeed Vikram Misri, had earlier served in Hong Kong and Beijing.At present, Rawat, an Indian Foreign Service (IFS) officer of 1990 batch, is serving as the Indian ambassador to the Netherlands.In a statement, the MEA said Rawat is expected to take up the new assignment shortly.Pradeep Kumar Rawat, presently Ambassador of India to Netherlands has been appointed as the next Ambassador of India to China. He is expected to take up the assignment shortly: Ministry of External AffairsRawat's appointment comes in the midst of a lingering dispute with China along the border in eastern Ladakh.Rawat had served as ambassador of India to Indonesia and Timor-Leste from September 2017 to December 2020. A PTI report said he is fluent in Mandarin.(With inputs from agencies)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/diplomat-pradeep-rawat-made-next-envoy-to-china-mea-101639998425680.html
20-12-2021||India||CM Patnaik inaugurates Odisha's longest bridge over Mahanadi||Odisha Chief Minister Naveen Patnaik on Monday inaugurated the state's longest bridge over Mahanadi river at Gopinathpur in Cuttack district.The 3.4-km-long bridge, connecting Singhanath Pitha and Baideswar in Cuttack district, will reduce the distance by 45 km, benefitting around five lakh people, officials said.The bridge, constructed in T-shape, is built at a cost of ₹111 crore, they said.Patnaik had laid the foundation stone of the bridge on February 28, 2014.Ahead of Patnaik's visit, the police detained hundreds of Congress and BJP workers, including former MLA Debasis Patnaik, as they were protesting with black flags at Banki.The opposition activists were demanding the dismissal of Minister of State for Home DS Mishra for his alleged link with the prime accused in the Kalahandi woman teacher's kidnap and murder case.Patnaik had in July 2017 inaugurated the 2.88-km-long Netaji Subash Chandra Bose Setu over Kathajodi river at Trisulia, which till now held the title of the state's longest bridge. The bridge connects Bhubaneswar and Cuttack via Barang.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/cm-patnaik-inaugurates-odisha-s-longest-bridge-over-mahanadi-101639992355543.html
20-12-2021||India||Banks to remain closed for 6 out of 10 days in December. Check details here||Following several common holidays in October and November due to the festival season, public and private sector banks in the country will also remain closed for as many as six days across different states for the rest of December 2021.The list of holidays includes one common holiday across all states on Christmas on December 25, which also falls on the last Saturday this month and is by default a holiday across all banks. Banks will also be shut for the weekend on Sunday, December 26.Apart from the two common holidays, banks in some cities will also be closed on December 24, 27, 30 and 31 on account of regional festivals. Aizawl and Shillong will have a maximum of four days of holidays among all major cities, according to the Reserve Bank of India’s (RBI’s) holiday calendar.Earlier on December 3 and 18, banks remained closed in Panaji and Shillong for the Feast of St Francis Xavier and the death anniversary of U SoSo Tham, respectively.However, the holidays that fall on the other days in December are not uniform across all states and would only be observed in some states.Here is the list of remaining bank holidays for this month:December 24: Banks will remain closed in Aizawl and Shillong due to Christmas Eve celebrations.December 25: Official bank holidays on the occasion of Christmas across the country. Bank shutters would be down in Agartala, Agartala, Ahmedabad, Aizawl, Belapur, Bengaluru, Bhopal, Bhubaneswar, Chandigarh, Chennai, Dehradun, Gangtok, Guwahati, Hyderabad, Imphal, Jaipur, Jammu, Kanpur, Kochi, Kolkata, Lucknow, Mumbai, Nagpur, New Delhi, Panaji, Patna, Raipur, Ranchi, Shillong, Shimla, Srinagar and Thiruvananthapuram.December 26: A weekend holiday on Sunday for all banks across the country.December 27: Christmas celebrations would continue in Aizawl and banks would remain closed on the day.December 30: Bank holiday for the regional holiday of U Kiang Nangbah in Shillong.December 31: Aizawl will have another day of a bank holiday on account of New Year’s Eve.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/banks-to-remain-closed-for-6-out-of-10-days-in-december-check-details-here-101639997844315.html
20-12-2021||India||Electoral reforms bill that links Aadhaar to voter ID passed by Lok Sabha amid din||The Lok Sabha on Monday passed a bill to link electoral roll data with the Aadhaar ecosystem amid protests by opposition members over the issue, who said it would “potentially give voting rights to non-citizens”.The Election Laws (Amendment) Bill 2021, piloted by Union law minister Kiren Rijiju, was passed by a voice vote after a brief discussion during which some opposition members demanded that it be referred to a parliamentary panel.However, Rijiju said various proposals which are part of the bill have already been suggested and recommended by the Standing Committee of Law and Personnel. The minister added the bill will cleanse the election system.Also read | 'Giving vote to non-citizens': Shashi Tharoor on Election Laws (amendment) BillThe Election Laws (Amendment) Bill, 2021 was introduced by the government as the Lower House of Parliament resumed on Monday. Following this, opposition members started creating a ruckus and the Lok Sabha was adjourned till 2pm.Also watch | Modi govt vs oppn over election reforms bill that links Aadhaar to voter ID 
20-12-2021||India||Congress lawmaker pledges support for BJP government in Assam||GUWAHATI: Opposition Congress lawmaker Sashi Kanta Das has pledged support for the Assam government ahead of his expected induction into the ruling Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP).Das said within a short span, chief minister Himanta Biswa Sarma has been able to bring communities in the state together and also given a rapid boost to development. “Today (Monday), I spoke to him about development issues in (his constituency) Raha... and he (Sarma) assured all help. Therefore, I have decided to support the government,” Das said. “A decision on...joining the BJP has not been taken at this point. For now, I have decided to support the government for the sake of the development of my constituency.”Sarma said to further develop Das’s constituency, the legislator expressed his desire to work with the government. “There was no discussion on the political aspect of it. At some time later definitely he (Das) will join the party (BJP)...” He added since Das has expressed willingness to support the government, they will help him in developing Raha. “Both state BJP president Bhabesh Kalita and I will welcome him (Das)... You can surmise what that means.”Sarma said many Opposition legislators were willing to join the ruling party due to the government’s work including waiving off of loans of nearly 1.1 million people.Also Read: Assam: 320 SI posts to be filled in Police Commando BattalionsCongress leader Rakibul Hussain said he was shocked and hurt by what Das has done. “It is still unclear whether he (Das) will quit Congress and join BJP... but remaining in an Opposition party and supporting the government does not make sense.”Congress lawmakers Rupjyoti Kurmi and Sushanta Borgohain resigned earlier this year to join the BJP. All India United Democratic Front lawmaker Phanidhar Talukdar also quit his party and joined the ruling party. The three won by-polls in November on BJP’s tickets.The BJP now has 62 lawmakers in the 126-member assembly. Congress, which won 29 seats in the assembly polls this year, has been reduced to 27 legislators.
20-12-2021||India||Goa Congress chief resigns as MLA, party's strength in 40-member assembly down to 2||In yet another jolt the Congress ahead of the Goa Assembly polls, the party's state working president, Aleixo Reginaldo Lourenco, resigned as Member of the Legislative Assembly on Monday, reducing the party's strength to two in the 40-member House.Two other Congress leaders had also recently resigned as MLAs in the state, where elections are due early next year. The Congress reacted sharply to Lourenco's resignation, saying people who betray the trust will face consequences and that voters from Lourenco's Assembly segment will teach him a "befitting lesson". Notably, the Congress last week declared its first list of eight candidates for the forthcoming state polls, and Lourenco's name figured in it. Lourenco, who represented the Curtorim Assembly segment in south Goa district, submitted his resignation to the Assembly Speaker's office on Monday afternoon. He later also resigned from the Congress, sources said. Lourenco, who was the working president of the Goa Pradesh Congress Committee, was not available for comments. He may join the Mamata Banerjee-led Trinamool Congress Party (TMC) soon, the sources said. Reacting to the political development, Congress' Goa desk in-charge Dinesh Gundu Rao in a tweet said the party was undeterred and unfazed. “People who do things selfishly and betray trust will face the consequences. After taking whatever he could and misleading us till the last minute, if he could lie and cheat us, I'm sure the voters of #Curtorim will teach him a befitting lesson,” he tweeted. Leader of Opposition in the Assembly Digambar Kamat tweeted that the Congress has "successfully faced many storms, floods & tsunamis". "Our functionaries have strength & mettle to defeat opportunists. Congress Party is here to form Government in 2022. I am committed to lead the @INCGoa to a thumping victory,” the former Goa CM said. Earlier this month, former Goa chief minister Ravi Naik resigned as Congress MLA. A few months back, ex-CM Luizinho Faleiro had also quit the Congress and joined the TMC, which has decided to contest the Goa Assembly polls. In the 2017 Goa Assembly elections, the Congress had won 17 seats in the House and emerged as the single largest party. But, the BJP, which had bagged 13 seats, quickly tied-up with some regional parties and independents to form government in the state.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/goa-congress-chief-resigns-as-mla-party-s-strength-in-40-member-assembly-down-to-2-101639996128911.html
20-12-2021||India||Tribal woman who delivered child in jail, gets bail in human trafficking case||The Supreme Court has granted bail to a tribal woman accused of human trafficking on the ground that despite a lapse of almost two years her trial has not commenced and said she cannot be kept in confinement indefinitely.A Bench of Chief Justice NV Ramana, Justices Surya Kant, and Hima Kohli granted bail to Drabhamon Phawa, a 21-year old woman from Meghalaya, who was accused of human trafficking."Having heard counsel for the parties and taking into consideration the fact that the petitioner has suffered incarceration for a period of 18 months and has also delivered child during custody, we deem it to be a fit case to grant her bail. The petitioner is, accordingly, directed to be enlarged on bail on terms and conditions to be imposed by the trial court. The special leave petitions stand disposed of accordingly," the order has stated.Drabhamon Phawa was pregnant at the time of her arrest and had been in jail since February 2020. She delivered a child in jail.Senior advocate Salman Khurshid and advocate TK Nayak, representing the woman, told the apex court that she herself was harboured into Delhi on the pretext of a dignified job and thereafter ruthlessly forced into flesh trade therefore, she is also the victim of the prostitution racket.It was further submitted that Phawa was pregnant at the time of her arrest and had undergone the entire period of pregnancy within prison confinement. Since then, Phawa has delivered a child who is also in jail with her.The Additional Solicitor General Aishwarya Bhati appearing for the Delhi government vehemently opposed Phawa's petition on the grounds of "severity and seriousness of offences" alleged against her.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/tribal-woman-who-delivered-child-in-jail-gets-bail-in-human-trafficking-case-101639990915134.html
20-12-2021||India||Rahul Gandhi hits out at govt for disallowing motion on Ladakh statehood demand||NEW DELHI: Congress leader Rahul Gandhi on Monday hit out at the government for disallowing a discussion in Parliament over Ladakh’s statehood and inclusion of the region in the Constitution’s sixth schedule, which relates to the administration of tribal areas to safeguard the rights of their indigenous people.“I wanted to support and raise the issue in the Parliament but unfortunately the government did not allow it. ...I want to send a message to everybody in Ladakh that everyone is with you,” Gandhi said.Gandhi earlier gave a notice to move an adjournment motion in the Lok Sabha to discuss the statehood and Ladakh’s inclusion in the sixth schedule of the Constitution to protect the resources and cultural identity of the region.In his notice, Gandhi said he wanted to discuss the matter of constituting a committee to consider the demands of the people of Ladakh. He also raised the issue of unhindered access to traditional pasture lands.Ladakh was made a Union Territory in 2019 after the Centre stripped Jammu and Kashmir of its special status and split the state into two union territories, Jammu and Kashmir, and Ladakh.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/rahul-gandhi-hits-out-at-govt-for-disallowing-motion-on-ladakh-statehood-demand-101639995627327.html
20-12-2021||India||‘Cheap statement’: Kharge on minister's remarks on Opposition boycott of meeting||Rajya Sabha Leader of Opposition Mallikarjun Kharge on Monday said parliamentary affairs minister Pralhad Joshi’s latest remarks on the ongoing controversy of suspension of 12 members was a “cheap statement” to make.The Union government invited four Opposition parties, whose MPs have been suspended from attending the Winter Session of the Parliament, for a meeting to end the logjam in the Upper House. But the Opposition parties decided to boycott the meeting as a section was sceptical about the outreach and demanded an all-party meeting instead.“This is a conspiracy to divide the Opposition. All Opposition parties are united on this issue. We have written to the government to call an all-party meeting,” Kharge said after the meeting of Opposition leaders on Monday morning.Joshi hit back saying the Opposition parties should understand that the “public is also boycotting them.”“It's a cheap statement,” Kharge said. “No party weakens with such statements. He should first accept that they made a mistake.”Kharge claimed the government’s invitation was meant to divide the Opposition as about 15-16 parties are fighting against the suspension of the Rajya Sabha members.“This divide and rule policy was perhaps given to them by the British. They have nothing to say, so they'll keep saying such things,” he added.Unfortunate and unfair, says Kharge after Centre calls 4 parties for meetingOn Sunday, Kharge wrote to Joshi terming the decision to not invite all Opposition parties as “unfair and unfortunate”.“All Opposition parties are united in the protest against the suspension of the 12 MPs. We have been requesting from the evening of November 29 itself that either the Chairman of the Rajya Sabha or the Leader of the House Shri Piyush Goyal should call leaders of all Opposition parties for a discussion to break the stalemate,” the Congress leader said in a letter to Joshi.“This reasonable request of ours has not been agreed to, further inviting only leaders of four Opposition parties instead of inviting leaders of all Opposition parties is unfair and unfortunate.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/cheap-statement-kharge-on-minister-s-remarks-on-opposition-boycott-of-meeting-101639994417301.html
20-12-2021||India||Now, Sanjay Raut says comparing smooth roads to Hema Malini's cheeks means respect||Senior Shiv Sena leader Sanjay Raut on Monday said comparing smooth roads to the cheek of Bollywood veteran and Bharatiya Janata party (BJP) MP Hema Malini was meant to accord respect to her.The Sena MP was reacting to the latest controversy kicked up by his party colleague and Maharashtra minister for saying the roads in his constituency in Jalgaon district were like the veteran actor’s cheeks. The minister, Gulabrao Patil, later apologised for the statement that he made at a rally after the state women's commission strongly objected to it.Stating that he did not take the comment in a negative way, Raut said such comparisons had happened earlier too and former Bihar chief minister Lalu Yadav had come up with a similar example.This type of comparison has happened earlier too. It's a respect for Hema Malini. So, don't see it negatively. Earlier, Lalu Yadav had also given a similar example. We respect Hema Malini: Sanjay Raut, Shiv Sena MP pic.twitter.com/qksjYfR9Vw“This type of comparison has happened earlier too. It's a respect for Hema Malini. So, don't see it negatively. Earlier, Lalu Yadav had also given a similar example. We respect Hema Malini,” Raut, who also heads Sena mouthpiece ‘Saamana’, was quoted as saying by news agency ANI.Later, the BJP MP said, "A trend of such statements was started by Lalu Ji years ago and many people have followed this trend. Such comments are not in a good taste."||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/sanjay-raut-says-comparing-smooth-roads-to-hema-malini-s-cheeks-is-like-respect-101639992138021.html
20-12-2021||India||Dozens released after protest at Chennai Foxconn plant||Police in India have released dozens of those detained for blocking a key highway in a protest against food poisoning at a Foxconn unit, the country's second instance of unrest at an Apple Inc supplier factory in a year.India is among the countries, such as Mexico and Vietnam, that are becoming increasingly important to contract manufacturers supplying American brands as they try to minimise the impact of the trade war between China and the United States.The highway was blocked for hours in the southern city of Chennai in Tamil Nadu state, home to a plant where the Taiwan contract manufacturer, formally known as Hon Hai Precision Industry Co Ltd, began assembling the iPhone 12 this year.It was not immediately clear if production was disrupted by the protests sparked by last week's food poisoning incident that led to 150 employees being admitted to hospital.Foxconn declined to comment. Apple did not immediately respond to an email seeking comment.A police official said plant workers and their relatives were among those who blocked the highway linking Chennai to India's technology hub of Bengaluru.While the nearly 70 women detained over Saturday's protest were released the following day, some of the 22 men held were arrested, added the official, who sought anonymity as he was not authorised to speak to media on the issue.Most of Foxconn's workers in India are women.In December last year, thousands of contract workers at a factory owned by Apple supplier Wistron Corp destroyed equipment and vehicles over the alleged non-payment of wages, causing damages estimated at $60 million.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/dozens-released-after-protest-at-chennai-foxconn-plant-101639992154960.html
20-12-2021||India||Parliament: Causing disruption is Oppn mantra, says Piyush Goyal||Union minister Piyush Goyal on Monday said Opposition parties do not want Parliament to run and causing disturbance and disruption is their mantra.Goyal further hit out at the Opposition for not attending a meeting called by the government to end the deadlock in the Rajya Sabha in the ongoing winter session of Parliament over the suspension of 12 MPs. He said the parliamentarians should realise their mistake and talk to Rajya Sabha Chairman Venkaiah Naidu.Also read | ‘Ploy to divide us’: Opposition’s RSVP to govt on invite over Parliament impasseSenior Congress leader Mallikarjun Kharge has questioned the Centre's move to call only four parties whose members in the Rajya Sabha have been suspended instead of all Opposition parties and called it a ploy to divide the Opposition.Earlier in the day, Opposition parties held a meeting over the government’s appeal for talks and the invitation being sent to leaders of only four parties and decided against the same.Shiv Sena MP Sanjay Raut said, "We will not attend the meeting called by the government. We will demand the resignation of MoS Home Ajay Kumar Misra and revocation of suspension of 12 Opposition MPs in the Rajya Sabha. We will not let both Houses of Parliament function."Meanwhile, Parliament continued to witness repeated adjournments as Opposition parties continued their protests on various issues, including suspension of 12 MPs and discussion on the Lakhimpur Kheri violence in which at least four farmers were killed and Union minister Ajay Kumar Mishra's son has been arrested. The Opposition is demanding the resignation of Mishra.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/parliament-causing-disruption-is-oppn-mantra-says-piyush-goyal-101639989682411.html
20-12-2021||India||Election Laws (Amendment) Bill tabled in Lok Sabha amid opposition||Union law minister Kiren Rijiju on Monday introduced in Lok Sabha the Election Laws (Amendment) Bill, which proposes to voluntarily link Aadhaar numbers to electoral rolls and make the language of the Representation of the People (RP) Act gender-neutral, even as Opposition parties slammed the government over the proposed law.Congress lawmaker Adhir Ranjan Chowdhury opposed the Bill and said it should be referred to a standing committee for scrutiny. “Linking of Aadhaar numbers with the voter IDs will lead to mass disenfranchisement.”In the drafts and objectives section of the Bill, the government called electoral reform an ongoing and continuous process. “The Central Government has been receiving proposals for electoral reforms from various quarters, from time to time, including the Election Commission of India,” it said. “Based on the proposals taken up by the Election Commission, it is proposed to amend the provisions of the RP Act, 1950 and the RP Act, 1951. Accordingly, a Bill, namely, the Election Laws (Amendment) Bill, 2021 has been proposed.”Also Read: ‘Giving vote to non-citizens’: Shashi Tharoor on Election Laws (amendment) BillThe Bill proposes an amendment to Section 23 of the Representation of the People Act, 1950, allowing the linking of electoral roll data with the Aadhaar ecosystem to “curb the menace of multiple enrolments of the same person in different places”.The Bill says no application for inclusion of a name in the electoral roll “shall be denied and no entries in the electoral roll shall be deleted for the inability of an individual to furnish or intimate Aadhaar number due to such sufficient cause as may be prescribed, provided that such individual may be allowed to furnish such other alternate documents as may be prescribed”.Congress lawmaker Shashi Tharoor said Aadhaar was only meant to be proof of residence. “(It) does not reflect any proof of citizenship,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/election-laws-amendment-bill-tabled-in-lok-sabha-amid-opposition-101639989686632.html
20-12-2021||India||Kerala records 4 more Omicron cases, tally reaches 15||Kerala on Monday recorded four new cases of the Omicron variant of coronavirus, which took the statewide tally to 15. The southern state has been one of the worst-affected states in India and a major contributor in the country’s daily coronavirus disease (Covid-19) tally.Two cases of the new variant were detected in patients aged 41 and 67. They are mother and grandmother of a 17-year-old patient in Thiruvananthapuram who came from the UK on December 9 along with his father, mother and sister.His grandmother was in the contact list. Two other cases of the Omicron variant were detected from Thiruvananthapuram - a 32-year-old man who came from Nigeria on December 17 and a 27-year-old woman who was included in the contact list of a flight passengers. She came from the UK on December 12.Kerala detected its first Omicron case on December 12 in Ernakulam district when a person who had returned from the UK tested positive.As cases of highly mutated Omicron variant started increasing in Kerala, the state government asked all districts to ready isolation wards and stock enough oxygen supply. Samples from localities where Covid-19 clusters are being regularly sent for genetic analysis.Struggling with heavy Covid-19 caseload, Kerala was on high alert after the new variant was detected in the country last month. For more than six months the state has been reporting maximum Covid-19 virus cases in the country and is on the second spot in death rate after Maharashtra.Meanwhile, India’s Omicron tally reached 170 on Monday after fresh cases were reported in Karnataka, Gujarat and Delhi, along with Kerala, in the last 24 hours.Omicron was first detected in South Africa on November 24 and has since then, spread to nearly 100 countries. The World Health Organization has already categorised it as a ‘variant of concern’.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/kerala-records-4-more-omicron-cases-tally-reaches-15-101639988326329.html
20-12-2021||India||Srinagar freezes as night temperature stays at -5.8 degree Celsius||SRINAGAR: Jammu and Kashmir continued to shiver as the minimum temperature stayed well below freezing point on Sunday night but weather department officials held out hope of a “significant improvement” in night temperature.The minimum temperature in Srinagar on Sunday night was -5.8 degree Celsius, as compared to the season’s coldest night on Saturday when the night temperature dipped to -6°C.Many water bodies including waterfalls, lakes and streams have frozen across the valley due to extreme cold wave conditions over the past week. In Srinagar, the fringes in the interior of famous Dal Lake have also frozen and city residents are facing problems due to frozen drinking water pipes.The ski resort of Gulmarg recorded - 5.5°C. In south Kashmir, the mountain resort of Pahalgam recorded a night temperature of -7.4°C. It was -7.5°C in Konibal, - 5.2°C in Kupwara, and -6°C in Qazigund, the gateway town to the valleyA weather office forecast said the plains of Kashmir will mostly see dry weather over the next two days with very light snow at one or two places on the higher reaches of Jammu and Kashmir.The Indian Meteorological Department (IMD) earlier forecast snowfall around Christmas eve.In the union territory of Ladakh, Dras recorded bone-chilling -19.°C while it was – 18°C in Leh during the night. Jammu also witnessed cold temperature during night and recorded 4.4 C.The harsh 40-day winter period of the Kashmir valley — Chillai Kalan — starts from December 21.Kashmir’s winter pans out in three stages starting with a 40-day intense period from December 21 (locally called Chillai Kalan) followed by 20 more days which are less intense (Chillai Khurd) and then 10 days of mild cold (Chille Bache).||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/srinagar-freezes-as-night-temperature-stays-at-5-8-degree-celsius-101639986691397.html
20-12-2021||India||Omicron spread in India: States which recorded new cases of the variant||India’s Omicron tally is rising at a rapid pace. On Monday, Karnataka, Kerala, Gujarat and national capital Delhi recorded fresh cases, taking the nationwide tally to 170.Also Read | New cases in multiple states, India's Omicron tally reaches 170So far, 11 states and union territories have recorded cases of the Omicron variant, which emerged first in South Africa on November 24. Among these states, Maharashtra leads the tally with 54 cases.Since Sunday, 1 more cases of the Omicron variant have been reported from across India. National capital Delhi registered the highest number of cases in the last 24 hours - six - followed by Karnataka (5), Kerala (4) and Gujarat (2).India has been continuously recording Omicron cases for the past week. There were 30 new Omicron cases on Saturday. On Friday, there were 26 new Omicron cases in the country, while the tally was 14 on Thursday. On both Tuesday and Wednesday, there were 12 such cases.Other states where Omicron has been reported are Telangana (20), Rajasthan (17), Uttar Pradesh (2), and one each in Andhra Pradesh, Chandigarh, Tamil Nadu, and West Bengal. After today's increase, Delhi has 28 cases, while Karnataka 19.Also Read | Omicron jolts markets, investors lost ₹11.23 lakh croreWhile Omicron was first reported in South Africa on November 24, India's first two cases of the this heavily mutated version of the coronavirus were detected in Karnataka on December 2.Meanwhile, Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR) has designed a diagnostic kit for detection of Omicron variant of the coronavirus and has invited Expression of Interest from in vitro diagnostics (IVD) kit manufacturers for undertaking transfer of technology for its development and commercialisation.The novel technology - real-time RT-PCR assay – has been developed by ICMR-Regional Medical Research Centre, NE, Dibrugarh.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/omicron-spread-in-india-states-which-recorded-new-cases-of-the-variant-101639985646560.html
20-12-2021||India||News updates from HT: Omicron cases in multiple states, nationwide tally at 166 and all the latest news||Here are today’s top news, analysis, and opinion. Know all about the latest news and other news updates from Hindustan Times.Omicron: New cases in multiple states, nationwide tally reaches 166Multiple new cases of the Omicron variant of the SARS-Cov-2 coronavirus, deemed to be highly infectious and capable of undergoing frequent mutations, were reported in India on Monday morning. Read moreED summons actor Aishwarya Rai Bachchan in Panama Papers leak caseThe Enforcement Directorate (ED) has summoned actor Aishwarya Rai Bachchan for questioning in a case linked to the 2016 'Panama Papers' global tax leaks case, officials said on Monday. Read moreBJP, ally NPP begin campaign ahead of polls in ManipurManipur’s ruling Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) and its ally National People’s Party (NPP) have started their election campaigns ahead of the polls in the state due early next year. Read moreWho is Yash Dhull, captain of the India Under-19 World Cup team?The All-India Junior Selection Committee, on Sunday, announced a 17-member squad for the upcoming ICC U-19 World Cup in 2022. Read moreWatch | Gehraiyaan first look: Deepika Padukone kisses Siddhant Chaturvedi, Ananya Panday suffers heartbreakOn Monday, the first look teaser of Shakun Batra's film revealed the title of the upcoming movie - Gehraiyaan. Watch hereKhushi Kapoor's dinner-date look in ₹13k mini dress is super chic: Suhana Khan, Shanaya Kapoor reactLike her elder sister Janhvi Kapoor, Boney Kapoor and Sridevi's youngest daughter Khushi Kapoor also has a steal-worthy wardrobe. The 21-year-old is a rising Gen-Z fashionista, and her Instagram page is a window to her eye-catching looks. Read more2021 Royal Enfield Classic 350 recalled due to brake reaction bracket issueRoyal Enfield has issued a recall for 26,300 units of Classic 350 motorcycles due to an issue in the brake reaction bracket issue. Read more||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/news-updates-from-ht-omicron-cases-in-multiple-states-nationwide-tally-at-166-and-all-the-latest-news-101639985380960.html
20-12-2021||India||Omicron: New cases in multiple states, nationwide tally reaches 170||Multiple new cases of the Omicron variant of the SARS-Cov-2 coronavirus, deemed to be highly infectious and capable of undergoing frequent mutations, were reported in India on Monday morning. With five new cases in Karnataka, four in Gujarat, six in national capital Delhi, and four in Kerala, the nationwide tally of infection with the new variant has now reached 170.According to information available on Sunday morning, the nationwide Omicron tally was 153, with the state-wise breakup being: Maharashtra (54 cases), Delhi (22), Telangana (20), Rajasthan (17), Karnataka (14), Kerala (11), Gujarat (9), Uttar Pradesh (2), and one each in Andhra Pradesh, Chandigarh, Tamil Nadu, and West Bengal.However, the PTI news agency reported late on Sunday night that Gujarat's new Omicron tally has reached 11 after new cases, including those of a 45-year-old NRI and a Tanzanian national, were added.Meanwhile, the state of Karnataka, too, reported five new Omicron cases in Dharwad, Bhadravathi in Shivamogga district, Udupi, and Mangaluru, respectively. Thus, the statewide tally for Karnataka also went up by five to 19.On Monday morning, the Delhi health department said that the Omicron tally in the national capital, too, has risen to 28 with six new cases reported here, of which two were reported earlier this morning and four later. The four people, found to be infected with the variant are admitted to Max hospital in Saket. Out of these patients, 12 have been discharged and 12 are under treatment, the health department said.Finally, the state of Kerala also added four new Omicron cases on Monday morning, taking the statewide tally to 15 from Sunday's numbers.According to the revised figures, the India-wide Omicron tally now stands at 170, with the state-wise breakup being: Maharashtra (54 cases), Delhi (28), Telangana (20), Rajasthan (17), Karnataka (19), Kerala (15), Gujarat (11), Uttar Pradesh (2), and one each in Andhra Pradesh, Chandigarh, Tamil Nadu, and West Bengal.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/omicron-new-cases-in-multiple-states-nationwide-tally-reaches-166-101639982986155.html
20-12-2021||India||PM Modi chairs meeting with top ministers to chalk out plans for ongoing session||Prime Minister Narendra Modi held a meeting with senior ministers of his government in Parliament on Monday to discuss various issues and the further strategy for the ongoing winter session.Union Ministers including Rajnath Singh, Nirmala Sitharaman, Piyush Goyal, Narendra Singh Tomar, Kiren Rijiju and others were present in the meeting.Opposition parties have decided not to attend meetings called by the government to end the deadlock in the Rajya Sabha in the ongoing winter session of Parliament.The decision was made after a meeting of opposition parties this morning."We will not attend the meeting called by the Government. We will demand the resignation of MoS Home Ajay Kumar Misra and revocation of suspension of 12 Opposition MPs in Rajya Sabha. We will not let both Houses of Parliament function," Shiv Sena MP Sanjay Raut said.Today's meeting of floor leaders of both Houses of Parliament was convened to chalk out the further strategy on revoking suspension of 12 Opposition MPs and demand for resignation of Minister of State for Home Affairs Ajay Mishra Teni over the Lakhimpur Kheri issue.Meanwhile, the Central government has also called a meeting of five political parties today whose MPs have been suspended from the Rajya Sabha to break the deadlock between the government and the Opposition in the House.!2 Rajya Sabha MPs were suspended from the House on the first day of the Winter session of Parliament from 5 Political Parties including Congress, TMC, Shivsena, CPI, CPI(M). After the suspension, all 12 MPs have been sitting on Dharna daily basis in front of the Gandhi statue in Parliament.Rajya Sabha was adjourned several times due to the ruckus in the Upper House by the Opposition parties demanding to revoke the suspension of MPs in the ongoing winter session of Parliament.The winter session of Parliament is scheduled to culminate on 23 December.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/pm-modi-chairs-meeting-with-top-ministers-to-chalk-out-plans-for-ongoing-session-101639979589959.html
20-12-2021||India||ED summons actor Aishwarya Rai Bachchan in Panama Papers leak case||The Enforcement Directorate (ED) has summoned actor Aishwarya Rai Bachchan for questioning in a case linked to the 2016 'Panama Papers' global tax leaks case, officials said on Monday.Aishwarya Bachchan, 48, the daughter-in-law of superstar Amitabh Bachchan, has been asked to depose before the agency in Delhi.The ED has been probing the case since 2016 when the global leaks came to light. It later issued notices to the Bachchan family asking them to explain their foreign remittances since 2004 under the Liberalised Remittance Scheme (LRS) of the RBI.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/ed-summons-actor-aishwarya-rai-bachchan-in-panama-papers-leak-case-101639981707859.html
20-12-2021||India||Prayagraj: PM Modi to transfer 1000cr in account of SHGs for women empowerment||Prime Minister Narendra Modi will visit Prayagraj on Tuesday and participate in one of its kind programmes to be attended by over two lakh women, his office said. The programme is being held as per Modi's vision to empower women, especially at the grassroots level, by providing them with necessary skills, incentives and resources, the PMO said, adding that he will transfer an amount of ₹1000 crore in the bank account of Self Help Groups (SHGs), benefitting around 16 lakh women members. This transfer is being done under the Deendayal Antyodaya Yojana - National Rural Livelihood Mission (DAY-NRLM), with 80,000 SHGs receiving Community Investment Fund (CIF) of ₹1.10 lakh per SHG and 60,000 SHGs receiving a revolving fund of ₹15,000 per SHG, it said. To encourage business correspondent-Sakhis (BC-Sakhis), the prime minister will also transfer a sum of ₹4000 as the first month's stipend in the account of 20,000 of them. When BC-Sakhis commence their work as providers of doorstep financial services at the grassroots level, they are paid a stipend of ₹4,000 for six months, so that they get stabilised in their work and then start earning through the commission on transactions, the PMO said.During the programme, Modi will also be transferring a total amount of over 20 crores to more than 1 lakh beneficiaries under the 'Mukhya Mantri Kanya Sumangala Scheme'. The scheme provides conditional cash transfer to a girl child at different stages of her life. The total transfer is ₹15,000 per beneficiary. He will also lay the foundation stone of 202 supplementary nutrition manufacturing units. These units are being funded by the self-help groups and will be constructed at the cost of approx ₹1 crore for one unit.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/prayagraj-pm-modi-to-transfer-1000cr-in-account-of-shgs-for-women-empowerment-101639976226339.html
20-12-2021||India||Maha minister says ‘roads in my constituency like Hema Malini’s cheeks’, apologises||Maharashtra minister Gulabrao Patil recently compared the smoothness of roads in his Assembly constituency Jalgaon district to actor-turned-politician Hema Malini's cheeks. The minister later apologised for the remark.The senior Shiv Sena leader reportedly made the remark during an election meeting, a clip of which has since been under circulation on social media platforms.Addressing a meeting for the Bodwad Nagar Panchayat polls in the north Maharashtra district, Patil was heard asking his opponents to visit his constituency to check for themselves the quality of roads there and soon after, dragged the veteran Bollywood actor and Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) MP to apparently come up with a more concrete conclusion of his statement."Those who have been MLAs for 30 years should come to my constituency and see the roads. If they are not like Hema Malini's cheeks, then I will resign," the water supply and sanitation minister said. Patil’s remarks were reportedly at former BJP leader Eknath Khadse, who was an MLA from Jalgaon for several years.The chairperson of the Maharashtra State Commission for Women, Rupali Chakankar, then warned Patil of legal action if he did not tender an apology, following which the minister tendered an apology."I did not mean to hurt anybody. I apologise for the comments. I belong to the Shiv Sena that idolises Chhatrapati Shivaji Maharaj. Party founder Balasaheb Thackeray has taught us to respect women," the minister told reporters in Dhule.Last week, a Karnataka Congress MLA made a similar remark while describing a particular situation in the legislative assembly. After facing widespread condemnation for his comment “when rape is inevitable, lie down and enjoy it”, senior Congress legislator KR Ramesh Kumar, also a former speaker, apologised in the House. He said, “People have given their verdict and accordingly I am begging for their pardon”.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/maha-minister-says-roads-to-my-constituency-like-hema-malini-s-cheeks-apologises-101639979254479.html
20-12-2021||India||Omicron impact: Events across India face the brunt||New DelhiJust when the offline events’ scene in the country had started getting back on its feet, the rising number of cases of the Omicron variant has become a cause of worry, again. Leaving music aficionados high and dry at the last minute, the District Disaster Management Authority (DDMA) recently issued orders to cancel Punjabi singer AP Dhillon’s concert, which was scheduled for December 18 in Delhi’s Aerocity. The cancellation order pointed out that the music show was “expecting 400-500 guests for the evening” and went on to cite an order that “prohibits all social/political/sports/entertainment cultural/religious/festival related rings and congregations throughout NCT of Delhi” from December 16 to January 1. In response, Dhillon — who recently faced an FIR over violation of Covid-19 norms after a Mumbai concert — shared on Instagram: “Delhi, I love you! Tonight’s cancellation was totally out of our control. We want nothing more than to come back and perform for you soon.” When contacted, the organiser of the concert, Naresh Madan, told us: “We will be doing it (the concert) once the things get better and Covid protocols are removed. We are not doing it as of now... As for yesterday, we were only using 25% of our capacity, which is less than 50% also, and we had kept limited numbers to come and attend that opening. So the issue was not that. We cancelled it because we wanted to follow the DDMA guidelines, and thought we should not go ahead with the event at this point. I hope the government will ensure no other people are calling artists and everyone is taking precautions for Covid.”But this isn’t the only event that has faced the brunt of rising cases of Omicron in the country. A steady surge in concerts and other events getting cancelled or postponed, is being reported from across the country. Earlier this month, the North East Festival, which was scheduled to be held from December 10-12 in Delhi’s Talkotara Stadium, was postponed to January, in accordance with the new SOPs issued on December 1. Shyamkanu Mahanta, organiser of the fest, says, “It’s a big celebration for people from the Northeast. But as responsible citizens, we decided to postpone the festival that was planned to take place in December. All flight tickets were booked and vendors were paid and we lost a lot of money. We are monitoring the situation and talking to officials while planning to do it in an open ground in JLN Stadium in January. If Omicron remains a threat, we’d reduce the concert components, and focus on exhibitions and business meets. If the situations goes extremely bad, going virtual is also an option.” Even the Auto Expo in Greater Noida will miss its edition this year. Rajesh Menon, director general, Society of Indian Automobile Manufacturers (SIAM), says, “There is uncertainty around how Covid -19 would develop in the coming months and at the same time organising Auto Expo would need a lead time of preferably a year. The magnitude of the risk of spread of infection is extremely high in a B2C show like Auto Expo which is visited by large crowds and maintaining social distancing would be difficult. It has therefore been decided to postpone the Auto Expo – The Motor Show for now. The exact date for the next edition of Auto Expo – The Motor Show would be finalised later this year keeping in view the Covid situation and in alignment with the OICA Calendar of global Auto shows.”Similar restrictions in Mumbai, placed by the Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) on December 18 has spurred cancellation of events in the city. The curbs are on public gatherings and functions during the Christmas and New Year period. Mumbai Half Marathon is one such event that has been denied permission. The organisers issued a statement that read: “Despite our best efforts with all necessary permission from the police authorities and assurance of a safe and well managed event, we had to cancel the event per BMC last minute order.” And Farida Heera, a Mumbai-based commented on social media: “I feel little disappointed as I was all excited to run for the live event, but nothing is in our hands in the current situation.”According to Maharashtra State Lawn Tennis Association, the Women’s Tennis World Tour events in Navi Mumbai and Pune will be held without audience and within bio bubbles, for both players and officials. And In Goa, December concerts and festivals remain muted as well. The Sunburn Festival was earlier denied permission by the Goa government, and will now see the organisers hold it at a small scale. But the annual Serendipity Arts Festival in Panaji, will not have its physical edition this year as well. Smriti Rajgarhia, director, Serendipity Arts Foundation & Festival, says, “We are taking all possible caution and are still assessing the situation. The foundation has much in store for 2022, which hopefully will be a better year for everyone.” (Inputs by Anjuri Nayar Singh)Author tweets @siddhijainnFollow more stories on Facebook and Twitter||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/omicron-impact-events-across-india-face-the-brunt-101639980269871.html
20-12-2021||India||India's daily Covid-19 tally fall below 7,000-mark; 132 new deaths||India's daily coronavirus tally fell below the 7,000-mark on Monday as the country reported 6,563 fresh cases of infection in the last 24 hours, according to the Union ministry of health and family welfare. The death toll climbed to 4,77,554 as 132 people succumbed to the viral disease in the same span of time, according to the data updated at 8 am on the ministry's website.The daily rise in new Covid infections has been below 15,000 for the last 53 days now, according to the data.The active caseload remained below 90,000-mark and currently stands at 82,267. According to the ministry, it is the lowest in the last 572 days. With 0.24 per cent, the active cases account for less than 1 per cent of total cases, it also mentioned.The recovery rate is currently at 98.39 per cent, the highest since March 2020. As many as 8,077 people were recovered from the viral disease, in a single day and the total recoveries now stand at 34,187,017.The daily positivity rate is at 0.75 per cent; it has been less than 2 per cent for the last 77 days, the ministry data showed. While the weekly positivity rate is at 0.60 per cent, less than 1% for the last 36 days.On the vaccination front, 1.37 billion vaccine doses have been administered so far under the country's nationwide vaccination drive.Meanwhile, the Omicron tally rose to 153 on Sunday after Maharashtra reported six and Gujarat logged four more cases of the new variant of coronavirus, respectively.According to central and state officials, omicron cases have been detected in 11 states and union territories -- Maharashtra (54), Delhi (22), Rajasthan (17) and Karnataka (14), Telangana (20), Gujarat (11), Kerala (11), Andhra Pradesh (1), Chandigarh (1), Tamil Nadu (1) and West Bengal (1).||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/indias-daily-covid-19-tally-fall-below-7-000-mark-132-new-deaths-101639979397175.html
20-12-2021||India||‘Ploy to divide us’: Opposition’s RSVP to govt on invite over Parliament impasse||Five opposition parties boycotted a meeting that the government convened on Monday as part of efforts to end the impasse in Rajya Sabha over the suspension of 12 lawmakers. At a meeting attended by all opposition parties barring the Trinamool Congress (TMC) to decide on the government’s invitation to five political parties for talks, the participants concluded that the invitation to just five of them was an attempt to divide them.“We refused to attend the meeting (called by the government). We saw it as a ploy to divide the Opposition,” said Communist Party of India (CPI) leader Binoy Viswam, who was among the leaders invited for the meeting convened by the government.Parliamentary affairs minister Pralhad Joshi invited leaders of the Congress, Shiv Sena, TMC, Communist Party of India (Marxist) or CPI (M), and CPI for the meeting.Twelve Rajya Sabha Members of Parliament (MPs) of these parties were suspended for the ongoing Winter Session of the House and triggered the logjamMallikarjun Kharge, the Opposition leader in Rajya Sabha, on Sunday wrote a letter to Joshi calling the decision to invite just five parties “unfair and unfortunate”.“All opposition parties are united in the protest against the suspension of the 12 MPs. We have been requesting from the evening of November 29 itself that either the Chairman of the Rajya Sabha or the Leader of the House Piyush Goyal should call leaders of all Opposition parties for discussion to break the stalemate,” he wrote.“This reasonable request of ours has not been agreed to, further inviting only leaders of four Opposition parties instead of inviting leaders of all Opposition parties in unfair and unfortunate.” HT has seen a copy of the letter.On November 29, when the Winter Session started, six Congress lawmakers, two each from the TMC and Shiv Sena, and one each from the CPI (M) and CPI were suspended for their “unprecedented” acts of “misconduct” and “violent behaviour” during the Parliament’s Monsoon Session in August.The opposition parties met at 9.45 am on Monday at Kharge’s office and took the decision to boycott the government’s meeting.
20-12-2021||India||4-day work-week, change in salary: India's new labour codes likely in FY 2022-23||India is likely to implement four new labour codes on wages, social security, industrial relations, and occupational safety by the next fiscal year beginning 2022, according to a senior government official cited by the PTI news agency. Under these new codes, a number of aspects related to employment and work culture, in general, might change – including the take-home salary of employees, working hours, and the number of weekdays.If the new labour codes are implemented, there's a likelihood that employees in India may be able to enjoy a four-day workweek from next year, as opposed to the current five-day workweek. In that case, however, employees will have to work for 12 hours on those four days since the labour ministry has made it clear that even if the proposal comes through, the 48-hour weekly work requirement has to be met.The labour codes also attain added significance in light of the fact that once these are implemented, there would be a reduction in the take-home pay of employees and firms will have to bear a higher provident fund liability.Less take-home salary, more PFAccording to experts who are assessing the proposed labour codes, the new laws will bring about a major change in the way employees calculate their basic pay and the provident fund (PF). Under these new codes, the contribution of employees to their PF account every month will increase but the monthly in-hand salary would get reduced, in turn.The regulations restrict allowances to 50 per cent, which implies that half of the salary would be basic wages and contribution to provident fund is calculated as a percentage of basic wage that involves the basic pay and dearness allowance (DA).Under the current labour regulations, the employer's percentage-based contribution towards the PF balance depends on the employee's basic pay and dearness allowance. Say, if an employee's salary is ₹50,000 per month, their basic pay could be ₹25,000 and the remaining ₹25,000 might go into allowances. However, if this basic pay is increased, more PF will be deducted, thus decreasing the in-hand salary and hiking the contribution of the employer/company.Labour codes finalised, likely to be implemented next fiscalThe central government has already finalised the rules under the four labour codes and now states are required to frame regulations on their part as labour is a concurrent subject. “The four labour codes are likely to be implemented in the next financial year of 2022-23 as a large number of states have finalised draft rules on these,” the senior government official was quoted by PTI as saying. “The Centre has completed the process of finalising the draft rules on these codes in February 2021. But since labour is a concurrent subject, the Centre wants the states to implement these as well in one go.”At least 13 states have pre-published draft rulesAt least 13 states have pre-published draft rules on these laws, the official said.Union labour minister Bhupender Yadav, too, had said in a reply to the Rajya Sabha earlier this week that the Occupational Safety, Health and Working Conditions Code is the only code on which the least number of 13 states have pre-published the draft rules.The highest number of draft notifications are pre-published on The Code on Wages by 24 states/UTs followed by The Industrial Relations Code (by 20 states) and The Code on Social Security (18) states.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/4day-work-week-change-in-salary-india-s-new-labour-codes-likely-in-fy-202223-101639970476730.html
20-12-2021||India||Yogi govt's 5 years in UP only a 'trailer': Nitin Gadkari||Union Road Transport Minister Nitin Gadkari on Sunday praised the Yogi Adityanath government in Uttar Pradesh saying it was just a “trailer” and the “real film” was yet to come.Gadkari made the remark addressing a public meeting after flagging off BJP's Jan Vishwas Yatra in Chandpur in Bijnor district."We are not just ending hooliganism in Uttar Pradesh, we are also going to end poverty, hunger and unemployment. The five years that you saw was a trailer. The real film is yet to start."Give chance to the double engine of the BJP government in the state once again and sit in peace and see how miracles will happen," the minister said, according to a statement issued by the BJP.He claimed ‘Ram Rajya’ was started in the country in 2014 under the leadership of Prime Minister Narendra Modi."The country is changing and so is UP. What Uttar Pradesh was before 2014 and what it is today," he said, asking people to compare.Gadkari claimed more kilometers of roads were built in UP in the last five years than in last 50 years."Roads have been repaired under the BJP rule. National Highways are connecting one state to another. The journey which took three hours before takes one hour today," he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/yogi-govt-s-5-years-in-up-only-a-trailer-nitin-gadkari-101639978369026.html
20-12-2021||India||Parliament: Rahul Gandhi moves adjournment motion to discuss Ladakh's statehood||Congress MP Rahul Gandhi on Monday moved an adjournment motion in the Lok Sabha to discuss the issue of statehood and inclusion of Ladakh in Schedule VI of the Constitution.In his notice asking for leave to move a motion for adjournment of business of the House, the Wayanad MP said he wanted to discuss the matter of constituting a committee with stakeholders, including members from the Leh Apex Body and Kargil Democratic Alliance to consider their demands. He also raised the issue of unhindered access to traditional pasture lands in the border areas.There has been a growing concern among locals over the issue of Ladakh's statehood with a number prominent leaders of the Union territory recently calling for a mass agitation to press for their demand. Ladakh was made a Union territory on August 5, 2019, after the Narendra Modi government at the Centre passed a legislation in Parliament to abrogate the special state of Jammu & Kashmir and divide it into two UTs. Congress whip in the Lok Sabha Manickam Tagore also gave a separate adjournment notice for discussing the Lakhimpur Kheri violence.Another Congress MP, Manish Tewari, also gave an adjournment notice to discuss the summoning of the chief election commissioner and the election commissioners by the Law Ministry, saying it is a matter of grave concern.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/parliament-rahul-gandhi-moves-adjournment-motion-to-discuss-ladakh-statehood-101639976850486.html
20-12-2021||India||Google year in search 2021: 'How to make oxygen at home' among most searched in India||Search engine giant Google has released its annual recap of 2021 and the results are as hilarious as one would expect. This year, the searches were mostly dominated by topics related to coronavirus (Covid-19) and how to register for the vaccine in India. Topics related to cryptocurrency such as 'How to buy dogecoin in India' and 'How to invest in Bitcoin' are also on the list.The topic that topped the list was 'How to register for Covid vaccine'. This could be as India kicked off its vaccination drive against the viral disease in the country. The second most searched topic was 'how to download vaccination certificate.'However, the most interesting thing users in India searched for was 'How to make oxygen at home.' People were also curious about learning ‘How to link PAN and Aadhaar.’Here are the top 10 'How To' trends of 2021 in India:1) How to register for Covid vaccine2) How to download vaccination certificate3) How to increase oxygen level4) How to link PAN with AADHAAR5) How to make oxygen at home6) How to buy dogecoin in india7) How to make banana bread8) How to check IPO allotment status9) How to invest in bitcoin10) How to calculate percentage of marksEvery year, Google releases lists of the top searched trends of the year in various categories. The listing gives a peak into what Indians searched for the most throughout the year across news, sports, entertainment, and other categories.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/google-year-in-search-2021-how-to-make-oxygen-at-home-among-most-searched-in-india-101639974516996.html
20-12-2021||India||Gupkar alliance to meet in Jammu to discuss ‘expansion plans’||The People’s Alliance for Gupkar Declaration (PAGD), which includes the National Conference (NC), the People’s Democratic Party (PDP), and the Communist Party of India (Marxist), is scheduled to hold a meeting in Jammu to discuss its “expansion plans” on Tuesday.PDP chief Mehbooba Mufti will be among the leaders, who will attend the meeting at NC leader Farooq Abdullah’s residence.PAGD spokesman Mohammad Yusuf Tarigami said the meeting is part of a programme to discuss the expansion of the alliance in the Jammu region. “This is the second time when PAGD is meeting in Jammu. Though we do not have any special invitee, the PAGD will seriously think to initiate dialogue with people of all three regions -- Jammu, Kashmir, and Ladakh--(of the erstwhile state of Jammu and Kashmir).”Tarigami said they have to initiate dialogue with all stakeholders including civil society. “Important things will be discussed.”NC, PDP, and Congress leader Ghulam Nabi Azad have held a series of rallies in the Jammu region this month.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/gupkar-alliance-to-meet-in-jammu-to-discuss-expansion-plans-101639974625720.html
20-12-2021||India||Parliamentary delegation from Vietnam calls on President Ram Nath Kovind||NEW DELHI: President Ram Nath Kovind, on Sunday, met a parliamentary delegation from Vietnam, led by chairman Vuong Dinh Hue of Vietnam’s National Assembly, on the fifth anniversary of the two nations’ comprehensive strategic partnership and on the upcoming 50th anniversary of their bilateral diplomatic relations.“Our people cherish the ideals of Mahatma Gandhi and President Ho Chi Minh. Today, our bilateral Comprehensive Strategic Partnership covers a wide range of areas – from political engagement to trade and investment ties, energy cooperation, development partnership, defence and security cooperation and people-to-people relations,” said a statement by Rashtrapati Bhavan.President Kovind noted that economic engagement between India and Vietnam has been positively maintained despite disruptions due to the Covid-19 pandemic. “He was also happy to note that defense partnership has been growing steadily… defence cooperation between the two countries would contribute to peace, security and prosperity in the region,” the statement added.The President also stated that the coordinated efforts of the duo at the United Nations and other international organizations has “given voice to the majority of developing countries.” He further added, “India and Vietnam have been working with ASEAN to contribute to free, open, peaceful, prosperous, inclusive and rules-based Indo-Pacific region governed by international law.”At the virtual summit held last year, Prime Minister Narendra Modi described Vietnam as an “important pillar of India’s Act East policy and an important ally of our Indo-Pacific vision.” He also called the relationship of the two nations “long-term and strategic”.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/parliamentary-delegation-from-vietnam-calls-on-president-ram-nath-kovind-101639974385703.html
20-12-2021||India||Army operates power stations in J&K; ‘total breakdown of governance’, says Omar||The soldiers of Indian Army were deployed at power stations in Jammu to restore electricity supply in various parts of the union territory. This has been done on the request of Jammu and Kashmir’s power development department (PDD), which is grappling with an indefinite strike by the employees since Friday night.The PDD employees and Jammu and Kashmir administration are at loggerheads over the latter’s decision to privatise the department’s assets and proposal to merge J&K PDD into the Power Grid Corporation of India.The strike and the administration’s intransigence have put thousands of J&K residents to extreme hardships amid bone chilling temperatures and Covid-19 pandemic as hundreds of patients are struggling to keep on to their oxygen concentrators.The Jammu and Kashmir administration held talks with the protesting employees but the deadlock still continues.“The Government has already agreed on two of their major demands -putting on hold the proposal for formation of JV(joint venture) and ensuring delay in salary is immediately resolved,” said official Twitter handle of Department of Information and Public Relations, Govt of Jammu & Kashmir, urging the employees call off their strike as people in both Jammu and Kashmir divisions are suffering.Divisional Commissioner, Jammu, Raghav Langer said after the meeting that the government is working with “commitment and sincerity” to protect public interests.The strike has plunged large swathes of the union territory into darkness amid the chilling temperatures as the employees refuse to rectify any faults, Hindustan Times reported on Saturday.Political parties have heavily criticised the Jammu and Kashmir administration for its “incompetence” and inconvenience people have been facing.“The army has been called to operate the power infrastructure in Jammu division of J&K. There no bigger admission of failure for a civilian administration than to call upon the army, it means a total breakdown of governance has been accepted by the J&K government,” National Conference leaders Omar Abdullah said in a tweet.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/army-operates-power-stations-in-j-k-total-breakdown-of-governance-says-omar-101639972883646.html
20-12-2021||India||Kiren Rijiju to introduce Election Laws (Amendment) Bill in Lok Sabha||NEW DELHI: Union law minister Kiren Rijiju is scheduled to introduce the Election Laws (Amendment) Bill in the Lok Sabha on Monday. The bill seeks to amend the Representation of the People Act to allow Aadhaar numbers to be used for registration of voters “for the purpose of establishing the identification.” It also proposes to replace the word “wife” with “spouse” to make the Representation of the People Act gender-neutral.The bill says no application will be denied and no existing entries in electoral rolls will be deleted for inability to submit Aadhaar numbers. Other documents will be allowed to be submitted for establishing identity.Also Read: Process for electoral reforms ongoing, continuous, says Centre on Election Laws (Amendment) BillIn the Rajya Sabha, Rijiju is scheduled to introduce the Mediation Bill, which aims to promote and facilitate mediation, especially institutional mediation, for the resolution of disputes. The proposed law seeks to provide for a body for the registration of mediators, encourage community mediation and make online mediation an acceptable and cost-effective process.Union finance minister Nirmala Sitharaman is also expected to introduce the Narcotic Drugs and Psychotropic Substances (Amendment) Bill in the Rajya Sabha. The proposed law seeks to replace the Narcotic Drugs and Psychotropic Substances (Amendment) Ordinance.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/kiren-rijiju-to-introduce-election-laws-amendment-bill-in-lok-sabha-101639972825661.html
20-12-2021||India||Bihar cabinet meeting to be held in Valmikinagar on Tuesday||BETTIAH: Bookings for tourists have been put on hold from Monday to Wednesday as part of arrangements for the state cabinet meeting in Bihar’s Valmikinagar on Tuesday. “Magistrates would be deployed at 100 locations between Bettiah and Valmikinagar during the visit of the ministers (for the meeting),” said sub-divisional magistrate Deepak Mishra.Chief minister Nitish Kumar and his cabinet colleagues will visit Bihar’s lone tiger reserve -- Valmiki Tiger Reserve (VTR) -- after the meeting. Kumar is also scheduled to review some development works and address a public meeting at Motihari on the first day of the Samaj Sudhar Yatra (social reform tour).The Bihar government has been trying to promote VTR as an eco-tourist destination since 2012-13.The forest department is set to press six e-rickshaws for a temple darshan at Valmikinagar and one telescope for sightseeing at VTR on Tuesday. This will coincide with the cabinet meet at Valmikinagar, which is over 200 km from state capital Patna.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/bihar-cabinet-meeting-to-be-held-in-valmikinagar-on-tuesday-101639972105477.html
20-12-2021||India||India weekly Covid wrap: Tally below 50,000; lowest daily rise since second wave||India has ben witnessing a continuous fall in the number of coronavirus disease (Covid-19) cases. Though the new Omicron variant has left health experts and the government worried, the daily tally has been falling steadily.And this is the first time in more than one and half years, that India’s weekly count of Covid-19 cases went below the 50,000-mark.Also Read | Arriving from ‘at risk’ nations? Pre-booking RT-PCR is must at these 6 airportsAccording to World Health Organization (WHO), India recorded 49,765 cases in the week ending December 19. This is 7,490 – or 13.08 per cent – lower than the count of the previous week.In the December 6-12 week, the WHO data shows that India recorded 57,255 case, while the number dropped to 49,765 in December 13-19 week. The highest number of cases (7,974) was recorded on December 16; in the preceding week, the highest count was recorded of 9,419 cases was recorded on December 9.Another sigh of relief came this week when, according to WHO, India registered 5,784 cases - lowest single day increase after second wave.Before this, the country recorded less than 50,000 cases in 2020 – the May 25-31 week – when the number stood at 48,858.Also Read | No surge in Covid-19 cases, but vulnerable lag in full vaccinationA major contributor in India’s daily caseload is Kerala, which saw a spike in the number of cases in the past few weeks. However, the infection spread is going down in the southern state, though the numbers are still a concern for the central government.The new heavily mutated Omicron variant has renewed concerns of a bigger surge than the Delta strain, which caused the devastating second wave of Covid-19 earlier this year.So far, India has recorded 153 cases of Omicron, with the highest concentration in Maharashtra. This is followed by Delhi (22), Rajasthan (17) and Karnataka (14), Telangana (20), Gujarat (11), Kerala (11), Andhra Pradesh (1), Chandigarh (1), Tamil Nadu (1) and West Bengal (1).While Omicron was first reported in South Africa on November 24, India's first two cases of the this fast-spreading version of the coronavirus were detected in Karnataka on December 2.India's Covid-19 tally reached 3,47,40,275 on Sunday after 7,081 fresh cases were reported. The active cases declined to 83,913, the lowest in 570 days, according to Union health ministry.The daily rise in new coronavirus infections has been recorded below 15,000 for the last 52 days now.The daily positivity rate was recorded at 0.58 per cent. It has been less than 2 per cent for last 76 days.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/india-weekly-covid-wrap-tally-below-50-000-lowest-daily-rise-since-second-wave-101639970355190.html
20-12-2021||India||News updates from HT: Amid Omicron threat, pre-booking RT-PCR must at 6 airports and all the latest news||Here are today’s top news, analysis, and opinion. Know all about the latest news and other news updates from Hindustan Times.Omicron threat: Pre-booking RT-PCR mandatory at these 6 airports from today. Here's how to do itPassengers from countries, listed as ‘at risk’ in the wake of the spread of the Omicron variant of the coronavirus, arriving at six major airports in India on or after Monday, will have to mandatorily pre-book RT-PCR tests, according to instructions issued by the ministry of civil aviation. Read moreElgar Parishad case: Poet-activist Varavara Rao likely to return to jail todayPoet Varavara Rao, an accused in the Elgar Parishad-Maoists links case, is likely to return to jail on Monday after the National Investigation Agency (NIA) said his health condition is stable and hence he must surrender before the prison. Read more8 fresh cases of Covid’s Omicron variant, national tally rises to 153With eight new infections of the Omicron variant detected across India on Saturday — two in Gujarat and six in Maharashtra — India saw a rise in cases of the heavily mutated virus, pushing the national tally to 153. Read moreCovid-19: These 10 countries remain untouched. Know the reason and see listIt’s been two years since the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) struck the world. It changed the definition of “normal” and affected almost every sector – be it travel, education or healthcare. Read more'Feel Kohli would also believe that': Ex-national selector explains why 'timing is perfect' for Rahul's vice-captaincyFormer national selector Saba Karim has backed the selectors' decision to name KL Rahul as the vice-captain of the Indian Test team for the impending series against South Africa. Read moreBigg Boss 15: Rajiv Adatia jokes he cried 'nonstop' after eviction, adds 'Bichukale and me, is there any comparison?'Rajiv Adatia, who was evicted from Bigg Boss 15 on Sunday night, has said that he is upset mainly because Abhijit Bichukale is still in the house. Read moreNora Fatehi drops a romantic look in eye-catching red dress worth ₹80k: See her bold pics hereDancer turned actor Nora Fatehi has a knack for serving red-carpet-ready fashion moments with her innumerable sartorial choices. See here||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/news-updates-from-ht-amid-omicron-threat-pre-booking-rt-pcr-must-at-6-airports-and-all-the-latest-news-101639968103338.html
20-12-2021||India||Cold wave to continue today, tomorrow in parts of northwestern India||Cold to severe cold wave conditions are likely to continue in parts of northwestern India on Monday and Tuesday with no significant change in minimum temperatures in the region as well as in Gujarat and Maharashtra over the next two days. A rise by 2-3 degrees Celsius in minimum temperatures is likely thereafter, the India Meteorological Department (IMD) said. Gradual fall in minimum temperatures by 2-3 degrees Celsius was very likely in most parts of east and adjoining central India during the next three days.Dry northwesterly winds of about 10-15kmph were likely to continue to prevail over the plains of northwest India till Tuesday and aggravate the cold wave and cold day conditions. Dense fog was likely in the morning hours in isolated pockets in Uttarakhand, Punjab, and Haryana along with ground frost conditions.Severe cold wave and cold day conditions continued to affect parts of northwest India on Sunday with some stations in Rajasthan, Punjab, Haryana, and Jammu and Kashmir recording sub-zero temperatures. Both day and night temperatures recorded in these regions were several notches lower than normal.Sikar in Rajasthan recorded a minimum temperature of minus 2.5 degrees C, 8.5 degrees below normal on Sunday, and Churu minus 2.6 degrees C, 8.4 notches below normal. “A western disturbance has passed. Very cold, dry northerly winds are blowing over the entire north-western region which is bringing down both night and day temperatures. This may abate after December 22. Ground frost can impact agriculture in some parts but not if it is for a very short time,” said DS Pai, IMD, Pune.RK Jenamani, a senior scientist at National Weather Forecasting Centre, said the ground frost was expected in all areas recording sub-zero temperatures. “East and west Rajasthan are particularly badly impacted. We have issued a warning for impact on agriculture due to ground frost also.”A cold wave is declared when the minimum temperature is less than 10 degrees C in the plains or 4.5 to 6.4 degrees C below normal.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/cold-wave-to-continue-today-tomorrow-in-parts-of-northwestern-india-101639969765382.html
20-12-2021||NA||Parliament Highlights: Working cohesively towards a drug-free nation, says FM||After a chaotic week and continuous protest by the opposition parties, Parliament on Monday resumed for the final week of the winter session this year. By Friday last week, the Opposition demand in Lok Sabha grew stronger for the resignation of minister of state for home, Ajay Misra ‘Teni’, whose son is a prime accused in the Lakhimpur Kheri violence case.There is also no resolution in sight in the Rajya Sabha as a united opposition rejected the government's outreach to resolve the logjam. Opposition members of the Upper House have been holding a protest at the Gandhi Statue demanding revocation of suspension of the 12 MPs.A government invitation went to select members of the Opposition including the Congress, Trinamool Congress, Shiv Sena and the CPI(M) on Sunday, according to news agency PTI. A meeting was to be convened at 10am on Monday by Leader of the House Piyush Goyal.Meanwhile, the government is expected to table a bill to amend the Prohibition of Child Marriage Act, 2006, this week raising the legal age of marriage for women from 18 to 21 years, making it at par with men. A proposal for the same was cleared by the Union Cabinet last week.Follow all the updates here:Rajya Sabha adjournedRajya Sabha adjourned for the day. Enable law for WFH: Sushil ModiRS member Sushil Modi claims private companies exploiting employees during WFH and asks govt to bring law to regulate WFH. Narcotic Drugs and Psychotropic Substances (Amendment) bill passedThe Rajya Sabha passes Narcotic Drugs and Psychotropic Substances (Amendment) Bill, 2021Authorities took charge and stopped heroin from entering the country: Sitharaman in RSThe finance minister lauded the DRI for seizing huge shipment of drugs from the Mundra port. Sitharaman introduces NDPS Bill in the Rajya SabhaFinance minister Nirmala Sitharaman introduces the Narcotics Drugs and Psychotropic Substances (Amendment) Bill, 2019Majority of India's population vaccinated: Health minister in Rajya Sabha“Under PM Modi's leadership, with the efforts of our healthcare workers, 88% of first doses of the COVID vaccine have been administered; 58% of second doses administered so far. Majority of the population in India is vaccinated today,” says Union Health Minister Mansukh Mandaviya in Rajya Sabha.Lok Sabha passes Election Laws (Amendment) Bill 2021'The Election Laws (Amendment) Bill, 2021' passed in Lok Sabha. The Bill seeks to allow electoral registration officers to seek the Aadhaar number of people who want to register as voters "for the purpose of establishing the identity".House adjourned till tomorrow, December 21.LoP Kharge hits out at Centre over remarks over its invitation to OppositionOn Parliamentary Affairs minister Pralhad Joshi's comment on Centre's invitation to opposition parties, Leader of Opposition in Rajya Sabha Mallikarjun Kharge said, “It's a cheap statement. No party weakens with such statements. He should first accept that they made a mistake. Did you suspend them as per rules? You suspended them by violating rules. We're saying that the suspensions be revoked. What's wrong with it?”“You're trying to divide Opposition. 15-16 parties are fighting against this issue together, they call members of only 5 parties to divide us. This divide and rule policy was perhaps given to them by the British. They have nothing to say, so they'll keep saying such things,” he added.Election Laws (Amendment) Bill has legal drawbacks: Adhir Ranjan Choudhury“This [Election Laws (Amendment) Bill] should be sent to Standing Committee. This has a lot of legal drawbacks. It is against the Supreme Court verdict and one which violates our privacy. This might strip off lakhs of people of their electoral rights,” Adhir Ranjan Chowdhury, Leader of Congress in Lok SabhaCausing disturbance, disruption Opposition's mantra: Piyush GoyalThe Opposition does not want Parliament to run. Causing disturbance and disruption is their mantra, says Union minister and BJP leader Piyush Goyal.Rajya Sabha adjourned till 3pmRajya Sabha has been adjourned till 3pm amid Opposition MPs' protest over the suspension of 12 MPs from the House as well as the Lakhimpur Kheri incident.Aadhaar a proof of residence, not citizenship: Tharoor in Lok Sabha“Aadhaar only meant to be proof of residence, it's not proof of citizenship. If you're in a position asking Aadhaar for voters, all you're getting is a document that reflects residence, not citizenship. You're potentially giving the vote to non-citizens,” said Congress MP Shashi Tharoor in Lok Sabha.Election Laws (Amendment) Bill 2021 tabled in Lok SabhaThe 'Election Laws (Amendment) Bill, 2021' introduced in Lok Sabha. House adjourned till 2 pm amid uproar by the Opposition.Opposition MPs to conduct march from Gandhi statue in Parliament to Vijay ChowkOpposition MPs will conduct a march from Gandhi statue in Parliament to Vijay Chowk at 12:30pm tomorrow, demanding the resignation of MoS Home Ajay Kumar Misra, in connection with the Lakhimpur Kheri case.Rajya Sabha adjourned till 2pmRajya Sabha adjourned till 2pm after Opposition ruckus.PM Modi holds meeting with key ministers to discuss government strategy for ongoing Winter SessionPM Narendra Modi is holding a meeting with senior ministers including Defence minister Rajnath Singh and Union ministers Pralhad Joshi and Piyush Goyal, in Parliament, to discuss various issues and government strategy for the ongoing Winter Session.Opposition parties to not attend meeting called by Centre to end logjam in Rajya SabhaOpposition parties have decided not to attend meeting called by the government to end logjam in Rajya Sabha.In an internal meeting of opposition parties this morning, leaders concluded the invitation for talks to 5 parties is a ploy to divide the opposition.More notices flow in from Opposition in both Houses Trinamool Congress MP Sushmita Dev gives Suspension of Business Notice in Rajya Sabha demanding a discussion on Lakhimpur Kheri violence in the HouseCongress MP Manickam Tagore gives adjournment notice in Lok SabhaCongress MP Manickam Tagore gives adjournment motion notice in Lok Sabha over Lakhimpur Kheri violence in Uttar Pradesh, demands "immediate resignation of MoS Home Ajay Kumar Teni".Congress leader Manish Tewari hits out at CentreSnap Shot of 17 questions on Sino- Indian Border Situation disallowed by Lok Sabha Secritariat on specious grounds of National Security. There are many more.Not one substantive discussion on China since April 2020.Are we a Democracy any longer? @ombirlakota @MVenkaiahNaidu pic.twitter.com/KtQVZARtkMCentre likely to table bill to raise women's marriage age to 21 yearsThe government has decided to raise the legal age of marriage for women from 18 to 21 years, bringing it at par with that of men. The Centre had on Wednesday cleared a proposal for the same. The proposed bill may also seek to make consequential changes to various personal laws relating to marriage of different communities to ensure a uniform marriage age, PTI reported||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/parliament-winter-session-2021-live-updates-govt-likely-to-table-bill-to-raise-women-s-marriage-age-today-101639968418737.html
20-12-2021||India||Elgar Parishad case: Poet-activist Varavara Rao likely to return to jail today||Poet Varavara Rao, an accused in the Elgar Parishad-Maoists links case, is likely to return to jail on Monday after the National Investigation Agency (NIA) said his health condition is stable and hence he must surrender before the prison. The 83-year-old activist is out on interim bail since February this year. He was medically examined earlier this month.On December 17, NIA counsel Sandesh Patil told a bench of Justices Nitin Jamdar and S V Kotwal in Bombay High Court that Rao had been medically examined by a panel of doctors at the private Nanavati Hospital in the city and the doctors were of the opinion that he does not need continuous medical attention or hospitalisation at present. "His health condition is stable now and the time granted via medical bail to him by this court is already over. So he (Rao) should surrender now. All other issues (raised by Rao's lawyers) can be examined after that," Patil told the high court.Rao was lodged in Taloja prison in Navi Mumbai before being granted bail on medical grounds for six months in February. He was due to surrender on September 5 this year but the bail period was extended multiple times due to medical care."Currently he has minor symptoms, such as lack of sleep and slight exhaustion. His vital parameters are in normal range. The remaining clinical examination reveals no significant abnormalities," according to the document submitted by the NIA to court.The Elgar Parishad case is related to inflammatory speeches made at an event in Pune on December 31 in 2017, which, the police claimed, triggered violence the next day near the Koregaon-Bhima war memorial. The prosecution claimed the conclave was organised by people with alleged Maoist links.The NIA has laid down 17 charges against 15 accused, including human rights and civil rights activists, and wants them to be charged under various sections of the stringent Unlawful Activities (Prevention) Act (UAPA) and the Indian Penal Code (IPC). It has alleged that the accused persons were active members of the banned terror outfit CPI (Maoist).The arrested accused in the case include activists and academicians Sudha Bharadwaj (who later got bail), Vernon Gonsalves, Varavara Rao, Hany Babu, Anand Teltumbde, Shoma Sen, Gautam Navlakha and others. Elderly tribal rights activist and an accused in the case, Stan Swamy, passed away in custody on July 5 this year after suffering a cardiac arrest.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/elgar-parishad-case-poet-activist-varavara-rao-likely-to-return-to-jail-today-101639967764841.html
20-12-2021||India||‘After Ayodhya-Kashi…’: Hema Malini calls for grand Krishna temple in Mathura||Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) MP Hema Malini on Sunday expressed hope that after Ayodhya and Kashi, her Parliamentary constituency of Mathura will also get a grand temple along the lines of those in other temple towns. The Lok Sabha MP referred to the Kashi Vishwanath Corridor, which was recently inaugurated by Prime Minister Narendra Modi, and said that the temple in Mathura could be beautified similarly in a grand manner.Also Read | Amid Mathura-Kashi temple row, BJP MP pitches for Places of Worship Act’s repealTalking to media persons in Indore, the actor-turned-politician said, “After the restoration of Ram Janmabhoomi and Kashi, naturally Mathura is also very important.”Hema, who had come to Indore to attend an event, said she will be visiting Kashi on Monday to keep an invitation. “Being the MP of Mathura, which is the birthplace of Lord Krishan who is the symbol of love and affection, I will say that there should be a grand temple,” she said, speaking on the development of a major temple in the sacred town. “A temple is already there and can be beautified like Modi-ji [Prime Minister Narendra Modi] developed Kashi Vishwanath corridor and the river Ganga can be seen directly from the temple.”Reflecting on the renovation and redevelopment work of the Kashi Vishwanath corridor, Hema Malini said, "This change was very difficult. This shows his [Prime Minister Modi's] farsightedness. This will also happen in Mathura.”Also Read | After deputy CM, Uttar Pradesh minister calls for new temple in MathuraIn ancient Hindu texts, the city of Mathura in Uttar Pradesh is the birthplace of Lord Krishna. He is believed to have been born at the Krisha Janmasthan temple complex - a set of temples built at a location in the city. The Kesava Deo temple, in particular, was built in ancient times upon an underground prison where the Hindu deity was supposedly born; it's also here that Janmashtami, the festival on the occasion of Lord Krishna's birthday, is celebrated in a majestic manner each year.The central government has included Mathura as one of the heritage cities for the National Heritage City Development and Augmentation Yojana (HRIDAY) – along with others like Ajmer, Puri, Varanasi, Vellore, Dwarka, and Gaya.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/after-ayodhya-kashi-hema-malini-calls-for-grand-krishna-temple-in-mathura-101639965111384.html
20-12-2021||India||Bill seeking to link electoral rolls with Aadhaar listed for introduction in LS||A bill on electoral reforms which seeks to link electoral rolls with the Aadhaar ecosystem to weed out duplicacy is listed for introduction in Lok Sabha on Monday.The Election Laws (Amendment) Bill, 2021 seeks to allow electoral registration officers to seek Aadhaar number of people who want to register as voters "for the purpose of establishing the identity".It also seeks to allow the electoral registration officers to ask for Aadhaar numbers from “persons already included in the electoral roll for the purposes of authentication of entries in the electoral roll, and to identify registration of the name of the same person in the electoral roll of more than one constituency or more than once in the same constituency”.At the same time, the amendment bill makes it clear that “no application for inclusion of name in the electoral roll shall be denied and no entries in the electoral roll shall be deleted for the inability of an individual to furnish or intimate Aadhaar number due to such sufficient cause as may be prescribed”.Such people will be allowed to furnish other alternative documents as may be prescribed.According to the bill circulated to Lok Sabha members ahead of its introduction, various sections of the Representation of the People Act, 1950 and 1951 will be amended.The Statement of Objects and Reasons of the bill states that Section 23 of the RP Act, 1950 will be amended to allow linking of electoral roll data with the Aadhaar ecosystem "to curb the menace of multiple enrolments of the same person in different places".Amendment to section 14 of the RP Act, 1950 will allow having four “qualifying” dates for eligible people to register as voters.As of now, January 1 of every year is the sole qualifying date.People who turn 18 on or before January 1 can register as voters. Those turning 18 after that have to wait for one whole year to register as voters.Now, “the 1st day of January, 1st day of April, 1st day of July, and 1st day of October in a calendar year” will be the qualifying dates in relation to the preparation or revision of electoral rolls.Amendment to section 20 of the RP Act, 1950 and section 60 of the RP Act, 1951 will allow the elections to become gender-neutral for service voters.The amendment will also help replace the word "wife" with the word "spouse" making the statutes “gender-neutral”.An Armyman's wife is entitled to be enrolled as a service voter, but a woman Army officer's husband is not, according to provisions in the electoral law. With "wife" being replaced by the term “spouse”, this will change.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/bill-seeking-to-link-electoral-rolls-with-aadhaar-listed-for-introduction-in-ls-101639962289308.html
20-12-2021||NA||Breaking highlights: UK reports 91,743 new Covid-19 cases, 44 deaths||Welcome to hindustantimes.com live updates platform where you can find breaking news from India and across the world. Find fast updates about the latest news as it breaks.Follow all the updates here:Uttarakhand couple test Covid-positive after visiting Omicron-infected relatives in DelhiUttarakhand DM R Rajesh Kumar said that a Covid-positive couple in Dehradun is suspected to be infected with Omicron, after they returned from meeting relatives in Delhi who were Omicron-positive with a travel history to Qatar, reports ANI. “Couple's apartment declared a micro-containment zone, genome sequencing report awaited,” he said. PM Modi to visit Mandi, HP, on Dec 27 to inaugurate projects worth ₹11 crorePrime Minister Narendra Modi to visit Mandi, in Himachal Pradesh, on December 27 to celebrate the completion of four years of the state government there, chief minister Jairam Thakur said.“We will inaugurate projects worth ₹11 crores, including the Dhaula Sidh hydropower project and Renukaji multipurpose project,” news agency ANI quoted the CM as saying.UK reports 91,743 new Covid-19 cases, 44 deaths UK reported 91,743 new Covid-19 cases and 44 related deaths. The new infections went up from 82,886 cases on Sunday. Resident doctors of AIIMS Delhi stage protest over delay in NEET-PG 2021 counsellingResident doctors of the All India Institute of Medical Sciences (AIIMS), Delhi, staged a protest over the delay in NEET-PG 2021 counselling, as they intensified the ongoing stir to push forth their demands, reports ANI.Delhi court discharges expelled BJP MLA Kuldeep Singh Senger in accident case of Unnao rape survivorDelhi's Rouse Avenue court discharges expelled BJP MLA Kuldeep Singh Senger in the 2019 accident case of Unnao rape survivor.In 2019, Sengar was sentenced to jail for life in a separate case for raping the minor in 2017.(File photo) pic.twitter.com/p3JacNH6GyThe Rouse Avenue court in Delhi discharged expelled BJP MLA Kuldeep Singh Senger in the 2019 accident case of Unnao rape survivor, reports ANI.In 2019, Sengar was sentenced to jail for life in a separate case for raping the minor in 2017.‘Omicron cases in South Africa mostly mild’, says doctor who first detected variantA top South African medical expert said that Omicron cases seem to be “mostly mild,” reports ANI. “I have seen 100 patients myself. It's quite transmissible. If I look at Delta, it seems less but it's very transmissible. In South Africa we don't see severe cases, it's mostly mild cases,” South African Medical Association Chairperson Dr Angelique Coetzee, the first to detect Omicron, said.Delhi assembly session on Jan 3, 4 Delhi Assembly Session to be held on January 3 and 4, 2022, reports ANI.EPFO added 12.73 lakh net subscribers in Oct 2021The provisional payroll data of Employees' Provident Fund Organisation showed that 12.73 lakh net subscribers were added during October 2021, reports ANI. This was an increase of around 10.22% in net payroll additions as compared to 11.55 lakh during October 2020.EU drug regulator recommends approval for Nuvaxovid Covid-19 vaccine by Novavax‼️ EMA recommends Nuvaxovid, the #COVID19vaccine developed by #Novavax, for authorisation in the 🇪🇺, to prevent #COVID19 in people from 18 years of age. #HealthUnion 👉 https://t.co/C0CrY8Jhih pic.twitter.com/bFDwTnh4ZfThe European Medicines Agency has recommended for granting a conditional marketing authoritsation for Novavax's Covid-19 vaccine Nuvaxovid for people above 18 years of age. Curtorim MLA Aleixo Reginaldo Lourenco set to join TMC after quitting CongressCurtorim MLA Aleixo Reginaldo Lourenço, who had resigned from Congress today, is set to join the Trinamool Congress. He landed in Kolkata today and will meet the party's general secretary Abhishek Banerjee tomorrow, reports ANI.CCI approves acquisition of Air India shareholding by Tata Sons subsidiary TalaceThe proposed combination envisages acquisition of 100% equity share capital of Air India Ltd (Air India) & Air India Express Ltd (AIXL), & 50% equity share capital of Air India SATS Airport Services Pvt Ltd (AISATS) by Talace Pvt Ltd (Talace): Competition Commission of IndiaThe Competition Commission of India (CCI) approved the acquisition of shareholding in Air India by Tata Sons subsidiary Talace Private Ltd, reports ANI. National Conference won't be signatory to Delimitation Commission report on J&K in present formThe Jammu Kashmir National Conference party will not be a signatory to the Delimitation Commission report in its present form, reports PTI citing party spokesperson.World Economic Forum calls off Davos Summit in January due to OmicronThe World Economic Forum (WEF) has postponed its annual meeting at Davos in January, until mid-2022 due to the Omicron Covid-19 variant, reports Reuters citing the organisers.Bharat Biotech submits phase 3 trial application for booster dose of intranasal vaccineBharat Biotech has submitted phase 3 clinical trial application to DCGI for its booster dose of their intranasal Covid vaccine that can be given to Covaxin and Covishield vaccinated people: Source pic.twitter.com/Sao0TMvMcjHyderabad-based Bharat Biotech submitted the phase 3 clinical trial application to the the Drugs Controller General of India (DCGI) for the booster doses of their intranasal Covid-19 vaccine that can be given to people who have been vaccinated with Covaxin and Covishield, reports ANI. Gujarat extends night curfew in 8 cities till Dec 31The Gujarat government has extended the existing night curfew between 1am and 5am in the eight major cities till December 31, reports ANI. ‘UP’s road infrastructure will be like America’: Nitin GadkariUnion minister Nitin Gadkari asked the people of UP to elect BJP government so that there would be development works to make the state's road infrastructure to “be like America”, reports ANI. “Support Yogi (Adityanath) ji, elect our government, I will bring in (road) development of another ₹5 lakh crores in the state. When such works will happen, UP's road infrastructure will be like America. I assure you to fulfill my promise,” he said. in MirzapurModerna says Covid-19 booster dose appears protective against OmicronModerna Inc said that a booster dose of their Covid-19 vaccine appeared to be protective against the fast-spreading Omicron variant, based on laboratory testing.Click here to read moreIndia to produce 45 crore Covid-19 vaccine doses per month in next 2 months: MandaviyaToday all states/UTs have adequate quantity of vaccines, 17 cr doses available with them. Our manufacturing capacity increased. Today India has capacity to manufacture 31 cr doses of vaccine/month. In next 2 months, it'll further rise to 45 cr doses/month: Union Health Min in RS pic.twitter.com/isO2z7nP8NIn the next two month, India will increase its Covid-19 vaccine production from 31 crore doses per month to 45 crore doses per month, Union health minister Mansukh Mandaviya said in the Rajya Sabha.‘No Omicron cases in Bihar so far, we are prepared’: CM Nitish KumarBihar CM Nitish Kumar said no Omicron cases have been detected in the state so far and it is prepared for handling the new variant, reports ANI. “So far no Omicron cases in our state. There is alertness in the state. We are prepared, arrangements have been made. Though there are no cases, you never know. Most number of per day tests are happening in the state- over 5 lakh tests being done,” he said. ‘Suspended MPs should realise their mistakes': Piyush GoyalThe 12 suspended Rajya Sabha MPs should realise their mistake and talk to the Chair. The Opposition leaders did not come for the meeting called by the Government today, says Union minister leader Piyush Goyal. All new positive Covid-19 cases in Delhi will sent for genome sequencing now: CM KejriwalGiven the rise in cases for some days, now all positive cases in Delhi will be sent for genome sequencing for Omicron, says Delhi chief minister Arvind Kejriwal as cases rises. “We also urge the Centre to allow booster doses," he also said.Delhi reports four more cases of Omicron; city tally reaches 28Four new Omicron cases reported in Delhi today taking the total number of cases of the variant here to 28. The four people, found to be infected with the variant, are admitted to Max hospital, Saket.Sensex crashes 1,400 points on Omicron concerns; investors lose ₹7 lakh croreThe Indian equities markets tumbled on Monday with the benchmark Sensex crashing 1400 points leading to nearly Rs.7 lakh crore loss to the investors' wealth within a couple of hours of trading. Delhi reports two more cases of Omicron, city tally rises to 24Two new Omicron cases reported in Delhi, case tally rises to 24, says Delhi Health Department. Out of these 24 patients, 12 have been discharged and 12 are under treatment, adds the health department.ED sends summon notice to bollywood actor Aishwarya RaiEnforcement Directorate summons Aishwarya Rai Bachchan in a case being investigated by the agency, reports news agency quoting sources.Parliament: Rahul Gandhi moves adjournment motion to discuss Ladakh statehoodCongress MP Rahul Gandhi on Monday moved an adjournment motion in the Lok Sabha to discuss the issue of statehood and inclusion of Ladakh in Schedule VI of the Constitution. Read MoreOpposition parties to not attend meeting called by the Centre to end logjam in Rajya SabhaThe opposition parties will not attend meeting called by the Centre to end logjam in Rajya Sabha. In an internal meeting of opposition parties this morning, leaders concluded the invitation for talks to five parties is a ploy to divide the opposition.Drone sighted in Gurdaspur near international borderA drone was sighted in Gurdaspur sector near the International Border, reports news agency ANI. BSF personnel fired 5 rounds after the patrolling team heard a humming sound but it managed to return to Pakistan territory. The incident was reported at 1230am on Monday, ANI reported citing a senior BSF officer.India sees 6,563 new Covid-19 cases; daily tally down 7.31% from yesterdayWith 6,563 people testing positive for coronavirus infection in a day, India's total tally of Covid-19 cases rose to 3,47,46,838, while the active cases declined to 82,267, the lowest in 572 days, according to the Union Health Ministry data updated on Monday.Death toll in Philippines typhoon hits 208Death toll from the strongest typhoon to hit the Philippines this year surges to 208, national police say, making it one of the deadliest storms to hit the country in recent yearsAt least 239 people injured and 52 missing.Omicron spread: 'We are sitting ducks for next wave of Covid-19', says expertThe Omicron variant has been spreading fast, especially in the United States, which was already ravaged by the second wave of the coronavirus disease (Covid-19). It is confronting another dark winter, with hospitalisations increasing 45 per cent over the last month and cases rising 40 per cent, according to a tally by news agency Reuters. Read More||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/breaking-news-live-december-20-2021-101639961481594.html
20-12-2021||India||Delhi air pollution: Restrictions on construction activities likely to be eased||Restrictions on construction activities are likely to be eased in Delhi after imporvement in the air quality. According to reports, the Commission for Air Quality (CAQM) may announce the decision regarding the same on Monday.“In view of the significant improvement in the air quality in NCR over the last three days, the CAQM is likely to further liberalise restrictions in the construction sector,” news agency PTI reported quoting an official.The commission had on Friday said the restrictions on construction and demolition activities in Delhi-NCR will continue till further orders.However, projects related to public utilities, railways, metro, airports and ISBTs, national security, defence, healthcare, highways, roads, flyovers, power transmission, and pipelines among others had been exempted.The central air quality panel had also allowed authorities in Delhi-NCR to resume physical classes for students in classes 6 and above, colleges and other educational institutions with immediate effect. The commission had also said that physical classes for students up to class 5 can begin from December 27.Every year in Delhi, air quality plummets to hazardous levels with the onset of winters due to stubble burnings, emissions from transport, coal-fired plants outside the city and other industries, as well as open garbage burning and dust.This year, the Air Quality Index (AQI) in and around the city has worsened to 470-499 on a scale of 500, according to federal pollution control board data. That level of pollution means the air will seriously impact people with existing diseases and even those who have healthier lungs.A study conducted by the Energy Policy Institute, University of Chicago, over a period of two years has revealed that Delhi's indoor pollution levels are also worryingly high and way above WHO limits.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/delhi-air-pollution-restrictions-on-construction-activities-likely-to-be-eased-101639961233824.html
20-12-2021||India||Omicron threat: Pre-booking RT-PCR mandatory at these 6 airports from today. Here's how to do it||Passengers from countries, listed as ‘at risk’ in the wake of the spread of the Omicron variant of the coronavirus, arriving at six major airports in India on or after Monday, will have to mandatorily pre-book RT-PCR tests, according to instructions issued last week by the ministry of civil aviation. As per a government notification, the ‘Air Suvidha’ portal would be modified to accommodate passengers, who are arriving from the ‘at risk’ countries or have visited those in the past 14 days.These airports are also the ones located in six major metro cities in the country – Delhi, Mumbai, Kolkata, Chennai, Bengaluru, and Hyderabad. The ministry clarified that this is merely the first stage of implementation of the protocol, and after stabilising the system and ensuring that passengers do not face any major hassle in pre-booking, the rule might be extended to other airports, too.The real-time reverse transcription-polymerase chain reaction (RT-PCR) is usually considered one of the most accurate laboratory methods yet for detecting, tracking, and studying the presence of the coronavirus disease (Covid-19)-causing SARS-Cov-2 virus in an individual. Airports in India have been conducting both rapid and regular RT-PCR tests, sometimes handling up to 15,000 samples a day, and the results of each might take anywhere from one hour to eight hours.How to pre-book RT-PCR tests at airports in India?Here's how visitors can pre-book slots online for their respective RT-PCR tests at Delhi's Indira Gandhi International (IGI) Airport, Mumbai's Chhatrapati Shivaji Maharaj International Airport, Kolkata's Netaji Subhas Chandra Bose International Airport, or otherwise:1. Visit the official website for the international airport of the city you are travelling to. For convenience, here are the ones for Delhi, Mumbai, and Kolkata.2. Look for an option called ‘Book Covid-19 Test' on the top panel.3. Next, select travel type (in this case, international arrival).4. Fill up all personal details such as name, email ID, mobile number, Aadhaar card/passport number, address, appointment date, time slot, etc.5. After entering all the details, select the type of test (in this case, RT-PCR, though Rapid PCR testing is available as well)6. Follow the instructions displayed on the screen, and book a slot for your RT-PCR test on arrival at the airport.How much will the RT-PCR test cost you?For a regular RT-PCR test, a traveller will have to pay ₹500, while the cost of a rapid PCR test, on the other hand, is ₹3,500. In the case of the former, test results will be available within six-eight hours, while the corresponding duration for the latter is just 30 minutes to one and a half hours. The testing facility is available for everyone travelling to or via the IGI airport.Additionally, passengers have the option to reschedule their appointment or cancel the booking altogether.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/omicron-threat-pre-booking-rt-pcr-mandatory-at-these-6-airports-from-today-here-s-how-to-do-it-101639957923028.html
20-12-2021||India||India, Central Asian nations vow to fight Afghanistan terror||India and the five Central Asian states on Sunday pushed for concerted action against all terror groups, saying Afghanistan’s soil must not be used for planning terror attacks, even as they pledged to provide immediate humanitarian aid to the Afghan people.The fallout of the Taliban takeover of Kabul on regional security, post-pandemic recovery and measures to boost regional connectivity and trade were in focus as foreign ministers of India and the Central Asian states held their third dialogue in the Capital.India welcomed the interest shown by the Central Asian states in using Shahid Beheshti terminal at Iran’s Chabahar port, which is operated by an Indian company, for trade with India and beyond, according to a joint statement. All the sides agreed to develop the transit and transport potential of their countries, improve the regional logistics network and promote joint initiatives to create new transport corridors.Also read | 'Afghanistan heading for chaos': Pak PM Imran Khan wants US to 'delink' TalibanExternal affairs minister S Jaishankar set the stage for the discussions, saying in his televised opening remarks that India and the Central Asian states have similar concerns and objectives in Afghanistan, including the formation of a truly inclusive government, the fight against terror and drug trafficking, ensuring unhindered humanitarian aid, and preserving the rights of women, children and minorities.“We must find ways of helping the people of Afghanistan,” Jaishankar said.Uzbekistan foreign minister Abdulaziz Kamilov, in his opening remarks, pointed to the “challenging situation” in Afghanistan” and spoke of the “need to develop a unified and coordinated approach towards this country”.With leaders of the Central Asian states expected to be chief guests at next year’s Republic Day celebrations, Turkmenistan’s foreign minister Rashid Meredov said Sunday’s meeting will be a “key event in the preparation process for the upcoming Central Asia-India Summit in January”.The positions taken on Afghanistan, terrorism and connectivity in the joint statement hewed closely to India’s stance on these matters, including the need to ensure transparency, financial sustainability and sovereignty in connectivity projects against the backdrop of China’s Belt and Road Initiative, people familiar with developments said.While discussing the situation in Afghanistan and its impact on the region, the ministers supported a peaceful and stable Afghanistan and emphasised respect for sovereignty, territorial integrity and non-interference in its internal affairs, the joint statement said.The ministers pointed to the importance of UN Security Council Resolution 2593, which “unequivocally demands that Afghan territory not be used for sheltering, training, planning or financing terrorist acts and called for concerted action against all terrorist groups”.They discussed the current humanitarian situation and “decided to continue to provide immediate humanitarian assistance to the Afghan people”.The ministers condemned all forms of terrorism and opposed “providing safe haven, using terrorist proxies for cross-border terrorism, terror financing, arms and drugs trafficking, dissemination of a radical ideology and abuse of cyber space to spread disinformation and incite violence,” the joint statement said.The ministers said perpetrators, organisers, financiers and sponsors of terror acts must be brought to justice in accordance with principle of “extradite or prosecute”. They called on the world community to implement relevant UN resolutions, global counter-terrorism strategy and Financial Action Task Force standards.These aspects of the joint statement were seen as a tacit acknowledgement of India’s concerns about terrorism emanating from Pakistan, the people said, requesting anonymity.In the field of connectivity, the ministers sought optimum use of the International North-South Transport Corridor (INSTC) and stressed that “connectivity initiatives should be based on the principles of transparency, broad participation, local priorities, financial sustainability and respect for sovereignty and territorial integrity of all countries”.While welcoming the proposal to include Chabahar port within the framework of INSTC, they expressed interest in cooperating on the development and strengthening of connectivity in Central and South Asia. All the countries agreed to explore the possibility of establishing joint working groups to address the free movements of goods and services between India and the Central Asian states.All the countries are currently discussing the use of a $1 billion line of credit announced by India last year for infrastructure projects in Central Asia, and the ministers asked senior officials to make efforts for early progress on this issue.In the field of post-pandemic recovery, all the countries stressed the importance of extensive vaccination and called for cooperation through sharing of vaccine doses, transfer of technology, development of local production capacities, promotion of supply chains for medical products, and ensuring price transparency.The ministers also backed the gradual restoration of tourism and business ties between India and the Central Asian countries. The foreign ministers of Kazakhstan and Kyrgyzstan welcomed the mutual recognition of Covid-19 vaccination certificates between India and their countries, while the ministers of Tajikistan, Turkmenistan and Uzbekistan sought early mutual recognition of certificates.India hosted the third edition of the dialogue, which began in 2019. This year’s event was joined by the foreign ministers of Kazakhstan, Kyrgyzstan, Tajikistan, Turkmenistan and Uzbekistan, who skipped a meeting of foreign ministers of the Organisation of Islamic Cooperation (OIC) on Afghanistan hosted by Pakistan on Sunday. All the Central Asian states are members of the OIC and were represented at the meet in Islamabad by deputy foreign ministers or other ministers.Most of the Central Asian foreign ministers spoke of the need to build on the historical and cultural ties of their region with India and highlighted the potential for cooperation in areas such as connectivity, transport, transit and energy. They referred to the importance of security cooperation between Central Asia and India.Jaishankar sought a collective response to challenges facing the region, including the impact of Covid-19 on global health and economy, and said the pandemic had changed supply chains and governance. It also highlighted the inadequacy of existing multilateral structures to meet new and emerging threats, he saidWith India and Central Asia facing the test of rebuilding their economies, he said, “But together we can do this better and India, I assure you, will be your steadfast partner.”“We already have a good history of cooperation,” he said. “But my message to you today is a readiness to take it to the next level. Our ties must now focus around 4Cs – commerce, capacity enhancement, connectivity and contacts.”
20-12-2021||India||8 fresh cases of Covid’s Omicron variant, national tally rises to 153||With eight new infections of the Omicron variant detected across India on Saturday — two in Gujarat and six in Maharashtra — India saw a rise in cases of the heavily mutated virus, pushing the national tally to 153.There were 30 new Omicron cases on Saturday. On Friday, there were 26 new Omicron cases in the country, while the tally was 14 on Thursday. On both Tuesday and Wednesday, there were 12 such cases.Omicron cases have been detected in 12 of India’s regions – Maharashtra has reported 54 cases, Delhi has seen 22, Telangana has reported 20, Rajasthan has 17, Karnataka has 14, Kerala 11, Gujarat has seen nine, Uttar Pradesh two, and one each in Andhra Pradesh, Chandigarh, Tamil Nadu, and West Bengal.Of the six in Maharashtra, two patients had a history of travel to Tanzania, two others returned from England, and one came from the Middle East. All five of them are fully vaccinated, and two of these patients are women, said a government statement.Another new patient is a five-year-old boy from Junnar in Pune district, who is a close contact of the Dubai travellers, the statement read. “Total six cases were diagnosed today - four of them found during the airport screening in Mumbai. One of these four patients is from Mumbai, two from Karnataka and one from Aurangabad. While two had a history of travel to Tanzania, two others had travelled to England,” it said.All four are fully vaccinated and asymptomatic. They are currently in isolation at the Seven Hills Hospital in Mumbai. The patients are in the age group of 21 to 57 years, the statement said.In Gujarat, two persons, including a teenage boy who recently arrived from the United Kingdom tested positive for the variant, the officials said.(With input from agencies)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/8-fresh-cases-of-covid-s-omicron-variant-national-tally-rises-to-153-101639950586472.html
20-12-2021||India||CIC rejects appeal seeking disclosure of sbi reports on electoral bonds||Central Information Commission dismissed an appeal seeking disclosure of reports submitted by State Bank of India to the Centre and Reserve Bank of India, regarding sale and encashment of electoral bonds in 2018 which are withheld by SBI on grounds of personal information held in fiduciary capacity.Nearly, three years after an appeal was filed with the Central Information Commission (CIC), the highest adjudicator of RTI matters, Information Commissioner Suresh Chandra noted that there appears to be “no public interest” in further prolonging the matter as there is no substance in the appeal calling for intervention by the Commission.  “The Commission after adverting to the facts and circumstances of the case, hearing both the parties and perusal of records, feels that due information has been given to the appellant,” he said.The case pertains to an RTI application filed by activist Venkatesh Nayak seeking denomination wise details of electoral bonds sold by State Bank of India (SBI) in March and April 2018, among other things.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/cic-rejects-appeal-seeking-disclosure-of-sbi-reports-on-electoral-bonds-101639950262053.html
20-12-2021||India||Cop injured in militant attack in south Kashmir’s Pulwama||A policeman was injured after suspected militants opened fire on him near his home in south Kashmir’s Pulwama district on Sunday evening.Police said that in a terror crime incident at Bandzoo area of Pulwama, terrorists fired upon a policeman following which senior police officers along with reinforcement reached the terror crime spot. “Preliminary investigation has revealed that terrorists fired upon one police personnel identified as Mushtaq Ahmad Wagay near his house at Bandzoo area of Pulwama. In this terror incident, he had received gunshot injuries and was immediately shifted to hospital for the treatment,” a police spokesman said. SSP, Pulwama, Ghulam Jeelani said the cop was stable. “He received a bullet injury in his leg,” he said. Police have registered a case in this regard under relevant sections of law. “Investigation is in progress and officers continue to work to establish the circumstances which lead to this terror crime. The area has been cordoned off and search in the area is going on,” the spokesman said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/cop-injured-in-militant-attack-in-south-kashmir-s-pulwama-101639946364661.html
20-12-2021||India||In run-up to polls, Akhilesh accuses Yogi Adityanath govt of tapping phones of SP leaders||Samajwadi Party (SP) national president Akhilesh Yadav on Sunday accused the Yogi Adityanath government in Uttar Pradesh of tapping the phones of SP leaders.In particular, Yadav charged Uttar Pradesh chief minister Yogi Adityanath with “listening to phone conversations of SP leaders, every evening, from the phones tapped by some UP police officers”.Akhilesh made the allegations at a press conference at the party’s state headquarters in Lucknow. “The ‘un-upyogi (useless)’ BJP government listens to all our phone calls. All the SP office phones and the mobile phones of all those associated with us are being listened to. The chief minister, every evening, himself listens to the recording of the phone conversations taken to him by the officers. If this chief minister works 24 hours a day, what else does he do? Work generally finishes by the evening,” he said.When asked on whose instructions he thought the officers were getting phones tapped, Akhilesh said: “Un-upyogi Sarkar (BJP government) and un-upyogi mukhya mantri (chief minister).”The former chief minister also said that on returning to power, his government will “turn the bulldozers (act against) such police officers. Some people are engaged in keeping him (the CM) happy during his last days in power.”Akhilesh said that the fear of imminent defeat in the 2022 UP assembly polls was nagging the BJP.“The fear of defeat first spurred the BJP to bring in big leaders, Union ministers in UP (for campaigning), then it started using central agencies against the SP leaders. They have brought in the income-tax department and will bring in ED, CBI and other agencies in the days to come. The BJP government at the Centre had been using these tactics in the non-BJP ruled states to win power. In UP, they are using it to try to prevent the SP from returning to power,” he alleged.When asked if he would complain about it at an appropriate forum, Akhilesh said: “No, we will not go anywhere. We will simply oust this government. People are restive to oust this government and bring the SP back to power. They are eagerly waiting for the poll notification and the voting dates.”On Saturday’s income-tax raids on some SP leaders, Akhilesh said: “If this government thinks that the Samajwadi Vijay Rath will halt because of I-T raids, then it’s mistaken. The raids have proved that the SP is coming to power. Vijay Rath will stop only when people install the SP government.”Akhilesh Yadav’s Vijay Yatra has completed seven phases so far. During the yatra, the SP chief has been campaigning from a motorised rath (bus). The eighth phase of the yatra will begin on Tuesday and cover the distance from Mainpur to Etah.He referred to the chief minister and BJP government as “un-upyogi mukhyamatri” and “un-upyogi sarkar” at least a hundred times in the 55-minute press conference.On Saturday, Prime Minister Narendra Modi, after laying the foundation stone of the Ganga Expressway in Shahjahanpur, had used the new coinage UPYogi or “UP plus Yogi bahut hai upyogi” to praise Uttar Pradesh chief minister Yogi Adityanath for “eliminating” mafias and undertaking a lot of developmental work in the state.Rajiv Rai, one of the SP leaders whose houses/establishments were raided by the income-tax department on Saturday, shared the dais with Akhilesh at the press conference. Rai, who is also a spokesperson for the SP, said: “I, for last 20 years, had been filing all the relevant papers with the income tax department. Why did the department not do any procedural thing then? It’s obvious they are trying to intimidate us, scare us. But we are Samajwadis (socialists) and can’t be scared.”Hours after the raids began, Akhilesh Yadav, at a press conference in Rae Bareli on Saturday had attacked the BJP government and said, “Now, the Income-Tax department has jumped into the election fray.”
20-12-2021||India||Delhi logs 107 infections, 1 death as positivity rate stands at 0.17%||Delhi recorded over 100 fresh cases of the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) for the first time in nearly six months on Sunday, as state authorities added 107 infections to the state’s tally, with experts urging residents to exercise caution and up their guard amid concerns over the Omicron variant.The Capital recorded one Covid-19 death in Sunday’s bulletin, the first fatality in 11 days and the third so far this month. The test positivity rate also climbed to 0.17%, the highest in 180 days.Meanwhile, a Delhi Disaster Management Authority (DDMA) meeting is scheduled to be held on Monday where the city’s infection situation will be reviewed, especially in light of the 22 Omicron variant cases that have been recorded in the Capital so far.The city last reported at least 100 cases on June 29, showed state health documents, when Delhi logged 101 Covid-19 infections. However, the city last added more cases on June 25, when the health department added 115 infections. The test positivity rate last exceeded Sunday’s figure on June 22, when the number touched 0.20%.Between mid-May and June, the city’s fourth wave of infections was subsiding after a record spiral of cases and deaths.In the nearly six months since then, the city’s Covid-19 daily caseload has been in the double-digits and at record lows – largely due to widespread antibody prevalence after the fourth wave of infections as well as a strong rate of vaccinations.To be sure, Delhi’s seven-day average of cases is still on the lower end of the spectrum, with the city adding an average of 68 fresh cases every day over the past week, according to numbers from the state government’s records.The vaccine coverage in the city too has been widespread, with most of the city’s adults covered with the first dose, of whom over 10 million have been completely inoculated, showed data from the central CoWin dashboard.Experts, however, said residents should be vigilant to prevent a resurgence of the infection.Dr SP Byotra, senior consultant at Sir Ganga Ram Hospital and chairman of its department of medicine, said: “People should be vigilant about distancing and masking in public places, otherwise the city may once again see a rise in the number of cases around February.”However, Dr Byotra said that since a large number of the city’s residents are now vaccinated, unlike during the second wave, the symptoms of infections may be milder.“Irrespective of whether the cases belong to Delta or Omicron variants, we should ensure that discipline in terms of Covid-appropriate behaviour is observed and no laxity is allowed,” he added.The Delhi government’s spokesperson did not comment on the rise in Covid-19 cases.Meanwhile, the DDMA meeting on Monday will be held through video conferencing and Lieutenant Governor Anil Baijal will preside over the meeting.Chief minister Arvind Kejriwal is the DDMA vice-chair, and will also be present at the meetingThe authority will discuss the increasing number of Omicron cases in Delhi and the current Covid-19 situation will be reviewed in the meeting, as per the notification.State health minister Satyendar Jain, NITI Aayog member VK Paul and Delhi chief secretary Vijay Dev and other senior officers of the state’s health department will be present in the meeting.(With inputs from Paras Singh)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/delhi-logs-107-infections-1-death-as-positivity-rate-stands-at-017-101639942141580.html
20-12-2021||India||Sporadic violence, low turnout mark Kolkata civic body polls; BJP, Left announce agitation||A crude bomb explosion that left three men injured, rampage inside at least two polling booths and more than a dozen sporadic clashes marked elections to the 144 seats in the Kolkata Municipal Corporation (KMC) on Sunday even as chief minister Mamata Banerjee said “voters celebrated the festival of democracy” while the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) and the Left declared state-wide agitations from Monday. A low turnout of 64% and absence of central paramilitary police force (CAPF) were salient features of the polling during which Trinamool Congress (TMC) candidates and workers were seen engaging in quarrels and fisticuffs with their counterparts from the BJP, Congress and the Left. At least five candidates were hospitalized in the evening. Calling Mamata Banerjee a dictator and the state election commissioner S K Das “spineless,” leader of the opposition in the assembly, Suvendu Adhikari, demanded a re-poll late in the evening. He alleged that police tried to confine him and a host of legislators and an MP to his residence in the Salt Lake Township which is not part of Kolkata. “We were allowed to leave after the polls. A bureaucrat shoved me as well. I will not accept this,” he said. Two crude bombs went off near Khanna cinema hall in central Kolkata in the morning but nobody was injured. However, three men were hurt when another bomb went off near the polling station at Taki Boy’s School. While the political parties accused each other of ferrying in outsiders to create trouble police arrested a man for the second bomb attack. “We have also identified his associates but the names cannot be disclosed. As many as 72 people were arrested in the city till 2 pm. The polling was overall peaceful. Police took prompt action. None of the 4,559 polling booths in the city were left unguarded. The state election commission (SEC) also received complaints and forwarded these to us. We have filed action-taken reports,” said Subhankar Sinha Sarkar, joint commissioner of police (headquarters) Prohibitory orders under Section 144 of the Code of Criminal Procedure (CrPC) were clamped within 100 metres of all polling stations. More than 23,500 policemen were deployed on Sunday. Of the 144 civic wards, the Trinamool Congress (TMC) currently controls 126. “The presiding officers in all polling booths became silent spectators when our agents were driven out. The TMC showed how low its confidence is even after winning 213 of the state’s 294 assembly seats six months ago,” said Bengal BJP’s chief spokesperson Samik Bhattacharya. “The Kolkata Police has proved that it is an organ of the ruling party and not a law enforcement agency. We will stage agitations across Bengal,” Bhattacharya added. The CPI(M), too, announced a two-day agitation. TMC national general secretary Abhishek Banerjee dismissed the allegations and said strong action will be taken if any TMC worker is found to be involved in violence and electoral malpractice. “The TMC cannot do anything if the BJP does not have the organisational strength to deploy polling agents. The polls were held peacefully barring some stray incidents. If the media has any photo or video footage, showing our workers involved in any incident, please make it public. Our party will give them exemplary punishment and so will the administration,” Banerjee said. Complaints poured in even when polling was coming to a close. The BJP alleged that Kolkata Police did not allow eight of its legislators to leave the government’s MLA Hostel near Park Street by locking the main gate. The BJP also alleged that policemen were deployed outside Adhikari’s Salt Lake residence. “The policemen could not show any official order that said BJP MLAs and MPs should be restrained till 5 pm. They only said they had instructions,” said BJP state vice-president Jay Prakash Majumdar. Minister Firhad Hakim dismissed the allegation. “This is a drama staged by the BJP. Can the police dare to stop the movement of legislators?” said Hakim. The MLAs were allowed to leave the hostel after the polls were over at 5 pm. Adhikari was also allowed to leave his home but he got into an altercation with the police. In the afternoon, BJP leader Meena Devi Purohit, who has won from ward No 22 thrice since 2005, alleged that she and her followers were attacked by TMC supporters. She alleged that her son-in-law and the latter’s brother were assaulted as well. Opposition parties alleged that TMC workers ransacked a polling booth in ward no 23. Polling was stalled at a booth in ward no 22 where the polling agent of the Congress was found with bleeding injuries. Congress and TMC workers clashed near Marwari Vidyalaya in the business district of Burrabazar. The counting monitor of an electronic voting machine (EVM) was thrown on the ground, SEC officials said. The SEC installed security cameras inside all polling booths, counting centres and facilities to be used for storing around 6500 EVMs following an order passed by the Calcutta high court. Adhikari alleged that most of the cameras were deactivated. “Let a central agency conduct a probe,” he said. The BJP had moved the high court seeking deployment of CAPF. It cited the alleged killings after the March-April assembly polls. The petition was however rejected by a single bench and the division bench of chief justice Prakash Shrivastava and justice Rajarshi Bhardwaj. The party challenged the order in the Supreme Court but no hearing was held.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/sporadic-violence-low-turnout-mark-kolkata-civic-body-polls-bjp-left-announce-agitation-101639941564019.html
20-12-2021||India||55 TN fishermen held, 8 boats seized by SL Navy; CM urges Centre to act||As many as 55 Tamil Nadu fishermen were arrested and 8 boats seized by Sri Lankan Naval personnel on Sunday following which Chief Minister M K Stalin took up the matter with the Centre to secure their release and all the 73 boats captured so far by the neighbouring country.Stalin spoke to External Affairs Minister S Jaishankar over phone and requested him to take immediate steps to get the over 50 fishermen and their 8 boats released from Sri Lanka.“The Union Minister assured immediate action,” an official release said. Stalin, writing to Jaishankar, took up the issue of continuing harassment of fishermen at the hands of Lankan Naval personnel. A total of 73 boats, including the 8 seized now, is being held by Lankan authorities, the CM said, urging action. The official here said that soon after the apprehension of 43 fishermen and seizure of 6 boats from Rameswaram, 12 other fishers of Mandapam area were also subsequently taken into custody. Two boats of Mandapam fishermen were also seized, he said.Demanding their immediate release, the fishermen association here said it would stage a protest on Monday and announced launch of an ‘indefinite strike’ as well.Stalin, in a letter to Jaishankar said he was saddened over the continuing arrest and harassment of Tamil Nadu fishermen by Lankan Navy at an ‘alarming frequency’ despite the state government taking up the issue with the central government. “I would also like to point out that, in the year 2021 itself there were 19 incidents of apprehension and attack of Tamil Nadu fishermen,” the CM said.Though the fishermen were released, fishing boats, the source of livelihood for them, are still detained by authorities of the island nation. “Further, during the same period, there were two instances of attacks and five fishermen were killed,” Stalin noted.The repeated attempts by the Lankan Navy to prevent Indian fishermen from exercising their traditional fishing rights through ‘intimidatory tactics’ must not be allowed to continue further, he added.Urging concerted action by the Centre to address this ‘festering’ issue, he sought the External Affairs Minister’s intervention to secure the immediate release of 55 fishermen and 73 fishing boats (including boats seized in previous incidents) from Sri Lanka. Fishermen departed on December 18 from here in over 500 boats and were fishing off Katchatheevu island when 43 of them were arrested and six boats seized early on Sunday, the Fisheries department official said.Following their arrest, they were taken to Kangesanthurai camp, a fishermen association leader and authorities said.Ramanathapuram MP, K Navas Kani spoke to union ministers and urged them to take immediate steps for the release of the fishermen and their boats.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/55-tn-fishermen-held-8-boats-seized-by-sl-navy-cm-urges-centre-to-act-101639940363925.html
20-12-2021||India||Kerala turning into unlawful state under Chief Minster Pinarayi Vijayan: JP Nadda on twin political murders||BJP president JP Nadda alleged on Sunday that Kerala is turning into an unlawful state under chief minister Pinarayi Vijayan as he condemned the murder of the party’s state OBC Morcha leader Renjith Sreenivasan. Kerala’s coastal Alappuzha district was rocked by back-to-back killings of two party leaders, the first belonging to the SDPI and the second to the BJP, leading to clamping of prohibitory orders by police on Sunday. Following the killing of an SDPI state secretary, a BJP leader was hacked to death and prohibitory orders were imposed in the entire Alappuzha district on Sunday, district officials said. Nadda said, “The brutal murder of OBC Morcha State Secretary Adv. Renjith Sreenivasan by ‘fundamentalist elements’ is condemnable. Such cowardly acts cannot be tolerated. Kerala is turning into an unlawful state under CM @vijayanpinarayi. They can’t scare us with their cruelty.” Chief minister Vijayan on Sunday condemned the killings and said steps will be taken by police to nab the culprits and those behind them. He said such heinous and inhumane acts of violence were dangerous to the country and that people should keep away from such groups and their hateful activities. Meanwhile, Rajya Sabha MP Subramanian Swamy said Union home minister Amit Shah should assess the situation and dismiss the Kerala government. He also called for a ban of PFI and said its members should go to Pakistan as they were seeking secession from India. The Congress and the UDF opposition led by it, on the other hand, alleged that both BJP and SDPI were out to create communal disharmony in the state in order to make a political space for themselves here and therefore the state government and the people of Kerala should stay away from such groups. Leader of Opposition in the state assembly VD Satheesan said the agenda of these groups was to divide the state along communal lines and that the Left government should take stringent action against them. KPCC president and Congress MP K Sudhakaran, in a statement, blamed the Left government’s alleged support of SDPI and RSS for such “political killings”.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/kerala-turning-into-unlawful-state-under-chief-minster-pinarayi-vijayan-jp-nadda-on-twin-political-murders-101639940243999.html
20-12-2021||India||Bommai says no post, position is permanent, fuels speculation of early exit||Karnataka chief minister Basavaraj Bommai on Sunday fuelled speculations of an early exit from the top chair after he delivered an emotional address in his home district of Haveri, saying that no post is permanent.“Nothing is permanent in this world. This life is also not forever. In such a situation these posts and positions are also not permanent; this is something we should always be aware of all the time,” Bommai said in Shiggaon, his home constituency in Haveri district, about 366 kms from Bengaluru.The statements come at a time when speculation is rife of a possible change in leadership in Karnataka barely five months since Bommai replaced BS Yediyurappa who was forced to step down from the top chair in July.According to multiple people aware of the developments, there are chances that Bommai is likely to be replaced early next year, though there is no official confirmation on the same as it would further dent the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) and its chances in the upcoming polls, including zilla and taluka panchayat, Bruhat Bengaluru Mahanagara Palike (BBMP, the city’s civic body) and the 2023 assembly polls.Bommai has been under extreme pressure after a poor show in the October 30 bypolls in which the BJP lost Hanagal, the chief minister’s neighbouring constituency in his home district of Haveri.Further, the Bommai government was unable to bag a majority in the December 10 polls for 25 seats in the upper house of the state legislature in which it shared an equal number of seats with the Congress, which also managed to win 11 seats with the Janata Dal (Secular) or JD(S) getting two.The Bommai government is also under pressure after multiple charges of corruption levelled against some members, including the Bitcoin scandal, in which senior BJP leaders and officials are believed to have laundered large sums of ill-gotten money using cryptocurrencies. A section of the public work contractors has also alleged that they are forced to cough up almost 35-40% commission for getting any projects, highlighting the growing corruption under the Bommai government.If rumour mills are to be believed, then Bommai is expected to go abroad to get a knee-related surgery and a change is expected to happen around this time.However, there is no official confirmation on the same.“I don’t have great things to say. If I could live up to your expectations, that’s enough for me. I believe that no power is bigger than your love and trust. I try my best not to talk to you in an emotional way but sentiments overwhelm me after seeing you all,” Bommai said, almost choking on his own words.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/bommai-says-no-post-position-is-permanent-fuels-speculation-of-early-exit-101639940124146.html
20-12-2021||India||Belagavi remains tense, K’taka CM says will not put up with insult of patriots||Karnataka chief minister Basavaraj Bommai on Sunday reiterated that vandals would be dealt with sternly even as tensions remain high in Belagavi, about 505 kms from Bengaluru, after bouts of arson and defacing of statues over what appears to be reviving of the Kannada-Marathi language and border row between two of India’s most industrialised states.“Our government will not tolerate any acts of violence. It will be taken seriously and the vandals would be dealt with sternly. Already 27 persons in Belagavi and 3 in Bengaluru have been arrested in connection with cases of vandalising the statues of Shivaji and Sangolli Rayanna,” Bommai said.The statements come after some protesters went on the rampage in Belagavi on Friday night, leading to clashes with the police.Prohibitory orders are in place in Belagavi after members of what is believed to be a pro-Marathi group defaced the statue of Sangolli Rayanna, a celebrated figure and general of Rani Chennamma of Kittur, who had taken on the British East India Company in 1824 over attempts to take control of her kingdom under the doctrine of lapse.Rayanna is also a figurehead of the influential Kuruba community in Karnataka, which counts former chief minister Siddaramaiah and incumbent cabinet minister KS Eshwarappa as its members.“Shivaji Maharaj, Kitturu Rani Chennamma and Sangolli Rayanna are great patriots. They should be respected,” Bommai said.Though the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) considers Chatrapati Shivaji as a symbol of its nationalistic politics, the king is considered a Marathi and an invader in Karnataka, which may have led to the defacing of his statue in Bengaluru.“Nobody should indulge in spreading false news and incite people. The incidents are being propagated in different shades to mislead the people. This is far from the truth. I have immense respect and pride for the patriots. People should not get swayed by rumours,” Bommai said.The winter session of the Karnataka legislature is also underway in Belagavi and will continue at least till December 24, adding to tensions.Pro-Kannada groups had blackened the face of Deepal Dalwi, the president of the separatist Maharashtra Ekikaran Samithi (MES), on December 13 at the start of the winter session as a show of strength and protest against holding the legislature session in a region which the Samithi considers should rightly be a part of Maharashtra.Several areas of erstwhile Mumbai-Karnataka, now renamed as Kittur Karnataka, are part of the regions that were included into the southern state in the 1956 reorganisation of states.While Karnataka celebrates Kannada Rajyotsava on November 1, the MES observes it a black day as they claim to have been forcibly separated from their parent state 66 years ago during the reorganisation exercise.In 2012, the state government inaugurated in Belagavi the Suvarana Vidhana Soudha, a replica of the Vidhana Soudha in Bengaluru, where it holds the winter session of the state legislature to further thwart any claims of territory by the neighbouring state. However, the region still has Marathi-speaking residents, who continue to raise the inclusion of Belagavi and surrounding regions into Maharashtra and often clash with pro-Kannada organisations in the border district.Araga Jnanendra, Karnataka’s minister for home, said all precautions have been taken in Belagavi to prevent any untoward incidents in the district. He said the home department was in constant touch with the police over the incidents in Belagavi and Bengaluru.“Have asked for all necessary actions to be taken to maintain peace and order,” Jnanendra said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/tension-in-belagavi-acts-of-violence-won-t-be-tolerated-saysbommai-101639940005464.html
20-12-2021||India||Activists flag concerns over Tamil Nadu policy on children||A 2019 sexual assault case of a 7-year-old in Tamil Nadu has brought to light several gaps in ‘Tamil Nadu State Policy for Children 2021’ as child rights activists say children continue to suffer due to the flaws in the policy.The girl was assaulted during the Covid-19 pandemic-induced lockdown in 2019 by her neighbour. After a case was filed in 2020, the girl was medically examined in a gynaecology ward of a government/private hospital where she was referred to as a Protection of Children from Sexual Offences (POCSO) Act case. The charge sheet said that the accused repeatedly assaulted the child and threatened her that he would kill her mother if she complained. The assault came to light when neighbours heard the child screaming one day. Since she belonged to an economically weaker section, she continues to live in the same building as the accused man. These experiences have continued to further traumatise the child and the state’s new children policy doesn’t address such ground realities, according to activists. Recently, Child Rights and You (CRY) lauded the policy, released on Children’s Day– November 20, which covers aspects of a child’s health, education, protection and participation, yet experts working for children in the state said that it has gaps such as not addressing boys as victims of sexual abuse, not including cyber crimes against children, protection from intimidation by perpetrators.According to the National Crime Records Bureau (NCRB), crimes against children in Tamil Nadu increased by 4.8% in 2020 during the Covid pandemic compared to a marginal decline of 0.4% between 2018 and 2019.The 7-year-old child’s case is in the trial stage at the Chengalpattu district court, where the case came up for hearing on December 16, but it was adjourned as a witness didn’t appear.A person privy to the child and the case, who did not wish to be identified, said that the father left the family after this case was filed.“The mother is a domestic worker who is now alone with the daughter fighting for justice,” he said. Referring to the 7-year-old girl’s case, Vanessa Peter, founder of the Information and Resource Centre for the Deprived Urban Communities (IRCDUC) said that the policy doesn’t have a victim protection programme in a situation like this. “The child need not be put in an institution when she can live with her mother,” said Peter.“But because they are poor they don’t have the means to shift homes, so the victim and the perpetrator are in the building even though they are on different floors. This is where the state can introduce provisions for victims of violence against children, for housing, employment, other entitlements for the family members of the victims, especially from socially disadvantaged groups and economically weaker sections. Without such support, they are more likely to turn hostile as such cases take a long time.”From December 15 onwards, various civil society organisations, including the IRCDU and the Tamil Nadu Child Rights Watch and child rights activists, got together for a two-day consultation to suggest ways to strengthen the policy. “The suggestions elaborate on how private tuition centres should be mandated to adopt a child protection policy as several children enrol there. Child Protection Policy should be mandatory not only for schools but other areas where children access education and extracurricular activities like private tuition centres, sports academies, religious places, computer centres,” said Andrew Sesuraj, convener of Tamil Nadu Child Rights Watch. They also argued for the policy to help establish a data repository on convicted sex offenders and paedophiles to ensure that organisations recruiting persons interacting with children can approach the government for background verification. This system is followed in the UK and US. Tamil Nadu released the child protection policy at a time when the state is reeling under an exodus of complaints of sexual abuse and assault against children. Two schoolgirls have also died by suicide alleging sexual abuse by their teachers during classes online and in physical classrooms. In Chennai alone, police have booked at least half a dozen teachers and sports coaches. In 2019, a European based study titled ‘Out of the Shadows: Shining Light on the Response to Child Sexual Abuse and Exploitation’ found that India’s POCSO Act was one of the strongest legal frameworks and scored 86 out of 100 as compared to 73 for the UK.India scored low on government commitment and capacity (48) and engagement of civil society, industry and media (50). This shows that while the provisions of the laws to punish perpetrators of sexual crimes against children is present, but its implementation has been tardy given insensitive stakeholders such as police, medical staff, such as in the 7-year-old’s case, which prevents them from seeking due process of the criminal justice system besides the delays in filing charge sheet and long trial process that is common across the country.
20-12-2021||India||Cabinet may discuss bill on conversions today: Minister||The Basavaraj Bommai-led Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) government is likely to discuss the controversial anti-conversion bill in the cabinet meeting on Monday, JC Madhuswamy, Karnataka’s minister for law, parliamentary affairs and minor irrigation said. The bill, likely to be titled ‘The Karnataka Protection of Right to Freedom of Religion Bill 2021’, will be then tabled in the lower house, people aware of the developments said. “The bill is ready and the cabinet may discuss it tomorrow. After discussions it has to be printed and then tabling will happen. Within a day or two, it will happen. We want to get it passed in this session,” Madhuswamy told HT on Sunday. The tabling of the bill comes at a time when the Bommai government is facing strong opposition to the proposal, especially in the backdrop of increased attacks against members of the Christian community in the state. The bill, according to senior members of the cabinet, is aimed at restricting and penalising conversion by allurement or by force. Several members of the Christian community and the Opposition have said that they will fight against the proposal in the house and outside. Siddaramaiah, the Leader of Opposition in the state assembly, had said that his party will not allow the anti-conversion bill to be passed in the house. He alleged that the government was making attempts such as bringing in anti-conversion law to divert the attention of the people from real issues.“Is there a need for it? There is no need. If there is forced conversion, file a complaint against those involved and punish them. There is a law already.” he had said.“We have gone through seven bills from different states who enacted the bill. The Congress, too, had drafted it in 2016, which was scrutinised by the then law minister but was not brought before the cabinet. We have copied the same and they cannot take any objection because they have drafted this bill,” Madhuswamy said. A copy of the bill is doing the rounds on social media, which the government has not authenticated. According to this bill, the government has defined “allurement” as “any gift, gratification, easy money or material benefit either in cash or kind.” It further added that the promise of employment, free education in reputed schools run by any religious body, promise to marry, better lifestyle, divine pleasure or otherwise will also be considered as allurement. The clause said that “disturbing the freedom of practice, rituals, and ceremonies or any integral part of a religion or offending religious sentiments” will invite action.The bill also defined coercion, conversion, force and fraudulent as means for religious conversion, among others. “Mass conversions means where two or more persons are converted,” the bill stated. “Prohibition of conversion from one religion to another religion by misrepresentation, force, undue influence, coercion, allurement or marriage. No person shall convert or attempt to convert, either directly or otherwise, any other person from one religion to another by use or practice of misrepresentation, force, undue influence, coercion, allurement or by fraudulent means or by marriage nor shall any person abet or conspire such conversion,” the bill added. Penal provisions for violations of the proposed law like jail terms extending from 3-10 years and fines capped at ₹1 lakh have been added to the bill. “Marriage done for the sole purpose of unlawful conversion or vice-versa to be declared void,” it added. Further, the offence will be non-bailable and cognizable, the bill read. Any person willing to convert will have to apply to the Deputy Commissioner who will scrutinise the request. Other details include the submission of personal details like date of birth, original religion, residential address and a copy of the Adhar card. After the person appears before the DC within 21 days to confirm the contents, the official will record the statements or any objections to the same. Further, the details will be sent to other departments like revenue, social welfare, backward classes and minority welfare among others, including rural bodies, principals or headmasters of educational institutions. “In recent years the state has noticed many instances of conversion by means of ‘allurement, coercion, force, fraudulent means and also “mass” conversion. These instances caused disturbance to public order and to punish such persons indulged in such acts at present no legislation is in existence in the state,” according to the statements or objects and reasons in the bill. The bill added that the Law Commission of Karnataka, after studying the various laws on the subject and considering the situation in the state in its 30th report, has made a recommendation to the government to enact a suitable law on the subject.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/cabinet-may-discuss-bill-on-conversions-today-minister-101639939944116.html
20-12-2021||India||J&K seeks army’s help over power blackout||Jammu and Kashmir administration has sought the help of the Indian army after major parts of the union territory continue to reel under power blackout following an indefinite strike by the employees of the J&K power development department (J&KPDD) from Friday night.The PDD employees and J&K administration are at loggerheads over the latter’s decision to privatise the department’s assets and proposal to merge J&K PDD into the Power Grid Corporation of India, a statutory corporation under the ministry of power. The strike and the administration’s intransigence have put thousands of J&K residents to extreme hardships amid bone-chilling temperatures and the Covid-19 pandemic, as hundreds of patients are struggling to keep on to their oxygen concentrators. Divisional Commissioner Jammu Raghav Langer has written to the department of military affairs and the ministry of defence requesting the army’s assistance in restoring the essential services.“It is to bring to your kind notice that due to strike by electricity department personnel in the union territory of J&K, essential services have been severely affected in the Jammu region. We would like to hereby requisition the Indian army to assist in the restoration of the said essential services by provisioning manpower to man critical electricity stations and water supply sources,” the communication by Langer said.Earlier, the divisional commissioner, Jammu during day held a meeting with the representatives of the employees, which failed to make any major headway. The government requested the employee leaders to call off the strike after the meeting.“The Government of J & K, taking a sympathetic view of the issues raised, has engaged in several rounds of talks with Coordination Committee of the Power Employees. The Government has already agreed on two of their major demands -putting on hold the proposal for formation of JV(joint venture) and ensuring delay in salary is immediately resolved,” said the official Twitter handle of Department of Information and Public Relations, Govt of Jammu & Kashmir.It said that during each round of talks, government representatives have appealed to the power employees to call off their strike as people in both Jammu and Kashmir divisions are suffering. “In the wake of Covid contagion and nail-biting cold in both the divisions, the Coordination Committee of the Power Employees is requested to end its strike,” it said.All J&K Power Employees and Engineers Coordination Committee (JKPECC) leader Majid Munshi’s phone was switched off. Another leader of the committee, Sachin Tickoo, told the media that they were opposing the systematic transfer of assets. “They are selling the assets of the transmission sector. They want to give 50% shareholding to the power grid which is against the interests of Jammu and Kashmir,” he told a news channel.The strike has plunged large swathes of the Union territory into darkness amid the chilling temperatures as the employees refuse to rectify any faults.Political parties have heavily criticised the J&K administration for its “incompetence” and inconvenience people have been facing.Former J&K chief minister and National Conference vice president took exception to the privatization decision of the J&K administration and said it should be left to the elected government.“The J&K administration may be able to claim the constitutional authority to privatise the assets of J&K but it completely lacks the political authority. Decisions of this nature with far-reaching consequences should be left to an elected Govt,” Abdullah said in a tweet.Peoples Conference general secretary Imran Reza Ansari said: “The strike of Power Sector employees has exposed the incompetence and callousness of current administration. On one hand livelihood of thousands of power sector employees is at stake, on the hand the survival of millions of citizens of J&K.”“One can only pray for a divine intervention since the administration has failed to protect the interests of people as well as the employees of the power sector. This is yet another instance of the utter failure of basic governance. Imported bureaucracy is busy in PR gimmicks,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/jk-seeks-army-s-help-over-power-blackout-101639939764038.html
20-12-2021||India||Third generation Kerala craftsmen keep tradition of ‘Nettur petti’ alive||They are often called keepers of the treasure, but these treasure-trove makers are not rich. Makers of ‘Nettur petti’ (box), a handmade wooden jewel box often used by aristocratic families, rich and temple bodies in south India to keep their ornaments and valuables intact, are just trying to keep the glorious tradition and craftsmanship alive.A nostalgic piece, many still keep these wooden boxes intact, and for others, it is a showpiece now. V V Suresh Kumar and V V Ramesh Kumar, two brothers in the state capital, third-generation craftsmen, are keeping their tradition alive. Their handmade products blend beauty, elegance and tradition and they are much sought after even these days, where better storage facilities are available. Many swear they still keep their valuables in ‘Nettur petti’ as part of the tradition, and some believe it is a symbol of luck and prosperity.“Generally rosewood is used to make these boxes. But now we use mahogany, teak and jackfruits timber also. Brass is used for embellishment. Everything, including the lock, handle, nails, hinges and cover are made by hand. Later, we paint it with vegetables’ colours,” he said, adding it takes days together to make a reasonably-sized box. He said many customers often seek specifications and different embellishments, and they make it accordingly. “Once we get the wood, we treat it properly and starts chiselling and modelling it according to our needs. Modelling and moulding are cumbersome. Everything is handmade, so the cost escalates. The situation was really bad, forcing my brother once to go to the middle-east to pursue some other jobs,” Suresh Kumar said, explaining the rigours of traditional craftsmen. Ramesh is back and runs a small stall at the arts and crafts village in Vellar on the outskirts of the capital city.Besides jewel boxes, they make different boxes. Kathakali Petti (to keep dance costumes), ari petti (rice box), spice petti, chella petti (betel nut box) and kaipettti (briefcase like wooden box to keep records) are some of them. They are also specialized in making ‘Manichitrathazu’ (ornate lock), which became famous after the 1993 semi-horror Malayalam movie of the same name.Craftsmen have no idea how Nettur petti got its name. “It is also known as Malabar petti, and we feel it might have imbibed the name from a village along the Malabar coast,” Suresh said.“My father Viswanathan Achari was an award-winning craftsman, and he was with Natesan’s, a popular antiqarts chain of south India. After his long stint, he came back to the state capital and founded an art school in Thiruvananthapuram to train youngsters,” said Ramesh Kumar, adding after his father’s death they tried to run it but was forced to close it later. Now, they employ less than 10 workers, most of them their relatives, and run a making unit in their home. Sadly, youngsters are missing from the workforce.“We want to run an art school and train youngsters, but we don’t have the wherewithal. For artists also, returns are meagre. If machine-made stuff is available for one-fifth of the price of handmade people usually go for them. But many still realize rigours of handmade boxes,” said Suresh Kumar.
20-12-2021||India||PM Modi to meet India Inc before budget amid Omicron scare||Prime Minister Narendra Modi is expected to meet captains of industry ahead of the national budget to discuss measures required to maintain India’s economic recovery amidst global concerns over the rapidly spreading Omicron variant of Covid-19 that could restrict mobility and disrupt economic activity.Modi is expected to soon meet industry representatives, two people aware of the development said, requesting anonymity. “It may happen early this week, maybe as early as on Monday evening,” one of them said. Finance minister Nirmala Sitharaman is scheduled to present the budget for 2022-23 on February 1. Both the government and the industry are cautious about Omicron as it could slow down economic growth, the second person said. “The Modi government has always been proactive. It is keen to take policy measures to shield the Indian economy from any impending global crisis. This will happen through dialogue with all stakeholders, including the industry,” the person said.The meeting would take place in the backdrop of two official reports. The recovery in domestic economic activity is turning increasingly broad-based, with the expanding vaccination coverage, slump in fresh Covid-19 cases and rapid normalisation of mobility, the monetary policy committee of the Reserve Bank of India said in its economic outlook on December 8.It, however, cautioned that “volatile commodity prices, persisting global supply disruptions, new mutations of the virus and financial market volatility” may pose downside risks to its outlook. India’s GDP growth will be 9.5% in the year to March 2022, the committee predicted. Another government report has warned of potential disruption of India’s economic growth momentum due to Omicron. “Omicron, a new variant of Covid-19, may pose a fresh risk to the ongoing global recovery,” the finance ministry said in its monthly economic report on December 11.“India’s economic recovery is driven by the timely relief and stimulus packages of the Modi government, and the massive vaccination drive,” the second person said. “There is a need to have a similar caliberated approach in the future to keep up the pace of economic development.”Modi on Friday hosted a roundtable interaction with representatives of venture capital and private equity funds. “It has been the constant endeavour of the Prime Minister to boost the investment climate of the country,” the government said in a statement after the meeting. “The discussion in the meeting happened on similar lines, while also illustrating how the Prime Minister is interacting personally with industry leaders to gather inputs ahead of the next budget.”Earlier last week on Wednesday, Modi met Gita Gopinath, chief economist of the International Monetary Fund, which she said in a tweet was a “productive and wide-ranging conversation.” India is projected to grow at 9.5% in 2021 and 8.5% in 2022, highest among major economies, and ahead of China’s 8% and 5.6% growth in the respective periods, the IMF said in its October update of the World Economic Outlook. The Covid-19 outbreak last year and the 68-day nationwide hard lockdown had a devastating impact on the economy. India’s GDP shrank 24.4% in the first fiscal quarter ended June 2020. It plunged into a technical recession – negative growth for two consecutive quarters – as it contracted 7.4% in the next three months. Thereafter, the economy saw a V-shaped recovery on the back of a ₹20.97 trillion stimulus package and policy reforms announced since March 2020. A positive 0.5% growth was reported in the third quarter, followed by 1.6% expansion in the fourth quarter ended March 31, 2021.The India economy started the current fiscal year with a record 20.1% expansion in the first quarter, signalling a strong revival in business activities. It saw 8.4% growth in the second quarter ended September 2021 on the back of increased government spending and exports, official data show.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/pm-to-meet-india-inc-before-budget-amid-omicron-scare-101639939525490.html
20-12-2021||India||Longest drone flight medical supplies delivery in India done in Nagaland||The Indian Medical Council of Medical Research (ICMR) Drone Response and Outreach in North East (i-Drone) pilot project, which was launched in Nagaland’s Mokokchung on December 14 made its final and longest drone flight from Mokokchung to Tuensang to deliver medical supplies, covering an aerial distance of 40 kilometers in 28 minutes.The road distance between the two district headquarters is 90 kilometers and takes seven to eight travelling hours due to the terrain and road conditions. As per the i-Drone project team, the drone delivered over 3000 units of medical supplies in a record 28 minutes from Mokokchung to Tuensang covering an aerial distance of 40 kilometers.“@ICMRDELHI along with Nagaland Govt. scripts a new chapter in the history of public health practices. 3525 units of medical supplies were transported from Mokokchung to Tuensang covering an aerial dist. of 40kms in 28mnts - longest flight ever by drone carrying medicines in India,” Chief Minister Neiphiu Rio tweeted on Saturday.According to an official bulletin, the drone delivery was undertaken to test the feasibility of sending Covid-19 samples from Mokokchung to Tuensang as the latter does not have sample testing facility. More than 7000 units of medical supplies were transported to Nagaland through this project.The ICMR project aims at supplying Covid-19 vaccines and essential medical supplies to far-flung places.The i-DRONE activity was launched in Mokokchung on December 14 and made the first flight from the district Chief Medical Officer’s Office to Primary Health Centre Longsa village.In a tweet, chief minister Neiphiu Rio said that ICMR Delhi and the state government scripted a new chapter in the history of public health practices.“ICMR Delhi long with Nagaland Government scripts a new chapter in the history of public health practices. 3525 units of medical supplies were transported from Mokokchung to Tuensang covering an aerial dist. of 40kms in 28mnts - longest flight ever by a drone carrying medicines in India,” Rio said in a tweet.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/longest-drone-flight-medical-supplies-delivery-in-india-done-in-nagaland-101639939403800.html
20-12-2021||India||Bill allows detention for 2 months, legal experts flag concern||The Madhya Pradesh government will introduce a draft legislation to tackle organised crime in the upcoming winter session of the legislative assembly, the state’s home minister Narottam Mishra said. The state cabinet will soon approve the Madhya Pradesh Gangsters and Anti-Social Activities Prevention Bill 2021 so that is can tabled in the assembly, which will be in session from December 20 to 24, Mishtra told HT. Madhya Pradesh, ruled by the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP), will be the second state after Uttar Pradesh to enact a law to weed out local mafias. The state cabinet on Thursday also approved a draft legislation to prevent damage to public and private property. The proposed gangster law will enable authorities to detain suspected criminals for up to two months, a home department official said. The law will be used against organized criminals, including mining mafia, land mafia, illicit liquor sellers, fake medicine sellers, human trafficking gangs, drugs peddlers, food adulterators, and illegal arms manufacturers, among others. “Police will invoke the law in all the organized crimes that have more than two accused,” the official said on condition of anonymity. “The law will empower district collectors to inquire the matter of assets of the accused and, if it is found to be disproportionate, they will have a right to seize it.” The cases under the proposed law will be heard in a special court so that hearings could be completed in a timely manner. There will also be provisions for the safety and security of eyewitnesses. “The draft is being discussed and will be formalized soon,” home department additional chief secretary Rajesh Rajora said. “This was not the first time when the provision of police remand for up to two months is going to be introduced,” retired police officer Shailendra Shrivastava said. “Earlier, it was introduced under the Terrorists and Disruptive Activities (Prevention) Act (TADA) and the Prevention of Terrorism Act (POTA).” “It is a necessary provision because it is tough for police to interrogate hardcore criminals,” the former Indian Police Service officer said. “As of now, there is a provision of maximum remand of 15 days, but that is not enough to complete interrogation.”However, legal experts and human rights activists fear that the proposed law can be misused by the state government.  “What is the definition of a gangster and who will decide who is a gangster or not?” asked former advocate general Ravi Nandan Singh. “There is a possibility that the act can be misused and stringent provisions like in POTA and TADA will definitely upset the people of Madhya Pradesh.” “The Madhya Pradesh government is copying Uttar Pradesh in every law, but they should understand that crime in MP is different from UP,” human rights activist M Seema said. “I don’t know why the government needs an extra law to control crime. They should reinforce existing laws to stop mafias because these laws only violate human rights, as we have seen in TADA and POTA. To keep a person in police custody just on the basis of suspicion that he is part of a mafia will surely violate human rights.” The proposed legislation is nothing but a copy of the law effective in Uttar Pradesh, the opposition said. “This act will prove the failure of the BJP-led state government in maintaining law and order in MP. BJP is leading the state and they allowed mafias to grow to such extent that now the government needs a separate law to deal with them,” said PC Sharma, state lawmaker from the Congress party. The law will ensure peace and terrorise antisocial elements, BJP maintains.“This law is against antisocial elements and the mafias to maintain peace and harmony in the state and to save the lives of people,” BJP spokesperson Rajneesh Agrawal said. “Opposition leaders have made a habit to oppose everything without understanding the consequences, and that’s why the Congress party is losing trust among the people.”
20-12-2021||India||Parliament communications may soon be accessed digitally through e-Sansad||Parliamentary communications may soon switch to a paperless system called e-Sansad that will allow the secretariat, ministries, members and citizens to access information digitally in a secure manner, officials familiar with the matter said on Saturday.The government is also looking at global best practices as it plans the new e-Sansad initiative for a digitally driven Parliament.The government is making an effort to introduce advanced technological capabilities for the new Parliament house that is being built, a parliamentarian familiar with the initiative said. “The system borrows from the best practices of several parliaments across the world, and takes examples from the Estonian model and two other countries,” the MP said on condition of anonymity.Also read | Opposition raises concerns over parts of two bills, wants detailed reviewE-Sansad aims to create an internationally competitive “eco-system to provide a centralised electronic platform that facilitates end-to-end information flow and is neutral and open to ensure secure exchanges between stakeholders”, while maintaining confidentiality, documents reviewed by Hindustan Times show.The project is in its early stages, said officials of the ministry of electronics and information technology (Meity). “The government is looking at an amalgamated platform that will streamline information flow,” an official said. “The government is working with parliamentarians and taking feedback on the project.”The government on December 15 circulated a document that detailed the agenda of the project, which is managed by the committee on information communication technology management (ICTM). The committee is working with National Informatics Centre, which provides computer programming support to the government.HT reached out to Meity secretary Ajay Sawhney, who did not respond immediately.Two sub-committees have been constituted under the ICTM, the officials said. One of them will look at existing systems, identify gaps and prepare recommendations. The other will flesh out the concept of a futuristic Parliament by studying global best practices.The committees will prepare the groundwork to develop an application similar to National e-Vidhan Application (NeVA), which is used by some state legislatures. It will also use a version of Sandes, the government’s end-to-end encrypted messaging application.E-Sansad will include features for multiple stakeholders from the speaker of the Lok Sabha, chairperson of the Rajya Sabha, members, secretariat, ministers, ministries, the digital library and the general public. This would ease tracking and tracing of documents while ensuring data confidentiality, according to the document cited earlier.For the speaker and chairperson, the features may include access to list of business of the Houses, list of the questions, papers to be laid, bills to be introduced, zero-hour discussions, and so on. Similar provisions will be made for the ministries as well.For parliamentarians, it will elaborate on their engagements in Parliament for the day, committee meetings, notices, participation, communications received and sent, complete activities of the committees and even payment details. The secretariat will be able to access activities of the Table office, the question branch, the committees, the legislative branch and others, including members’ salaries and allowances, welfare and services.The core business systems will cover submitting requests, notices, precessing documents, session business support, connection with stakeholders and information dissemination.E-Sansad will “revolutionise” Parliament by “integration of stakeholders functionalities, seamless navigation of information, ease of dissemination, artificial intelligence backed search, cloud development with a single point access and Sansad process automation”, the document stated.The public platform will enable citizens to access members’ profiles, constituency reports, questions raised, responses submitted, legislative bills, committees, debate synopsis and government assurances. The debates portal will also contain video archives, verbatim records of the debates and use keyword mapping to search for bills, sector, legislation and members.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/parliament-communications-may-soon-be-accessed-digitally-through-esansad-101639938805117.html
20-12-2021||India||2 arrested on spying charges in J&K’s Rajouri||Two persons were arrested on charges of spying for Pakistan in a village in the border district of Rajouri in Jammu and Kashmir, officials said on Sunday.A man working as a porter with the Army and his relative, both residents of Nowshera, were picked up by a joint team of the Army and police on specific information late on Saturday, they said.The arrested Nazir Hussain and Mohammed Mukhtar are accused of taking videos of vital and sensitive security installations and sharing them with their handlers outside the country in lieu of money.According to the officials, the two had shot a video clip in the Army premises (erstwhile tactical headquarters of Rashtriya Rifles) on a mobile phone. “A piece of information was received at the Rajouri police station on December 16 regarding an espionage racket operating in the area… On this complaint, both the accused have been arrested and further investigation is underway,” a police spokesperson said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/2-arrested-on-spying-charges-in-j-k-s-rajouri-101639938803706.html
20-12-2021||India||India’s latest destroyer kicks off maiden trials in Arabian Sea||An indigenously built stealth destroyer --- one of the four warships being built under an important navy project called P-15B, on Sunday kicked off maiden trials in Arabian Sea, the event coinciding with the 60th anniversary of the liberation of Goa from Portuguese rule. Mormugao is the second stealth destroyer under P-15B --- the first, INS Visakhapatnam, was commissioned in the navy on November 21 in Mumbai. Mormugao is expected to join the naval fleet by mid-2022, with the remaining two to be commissioned by 2025.The ships are being built at Mazagon Dock Shipbuilders Ltd in Mumbai. The commissioning of Visakhapatnam, armed with a variety of locally built weapons and sensors, reaffirmed India’s presence among an elite group of nations with capability to design and build advanced warships, the officials said. “December 19 is perhaps the most befitting date for the ship to put to sea for trials. The Indian Navy played a pivotal role in the liberation of Goa and dedicating the ship’s name to the maritime state will not just enhance the bonding between the Indian Navy and the people of Goa, but also link the ship’s identity permanently to the crucial role the navy played in nation-building,” the navy said in a statement. Mormugao will add significantly to the Indian Navy’s combat capabilities, it added. The navy is focused on strengthening its capabilities amid changing power dynamics in the Indian Ocean Region. Last month, it also inducted a French-designed Kalvari class diesel-electric attack submarine, Vela. INS Vela is the fourth of the six Kalvari class submarines being constructed in the country with technology transfer from French firm Naval Group under a ₹23,562-crore programme called P-75. The remaining two submarines will be commissioned in two years. India is also pursuing a project (P-75I) worth ₹40,000 crore for building six more advanced submarines in the country under the government’s strategic partnership (SP) model to bolster the Indian Navy’s underwater force levels and counter the rapid expansion of China’s submarine fleet. The Indian strategic partners cleared to collaborate with the foreign players are Mazagon Dock Shipbuilders Limited and L&T. The foreign yards they can team up with for the project are the French Naval Group, German conglomerate Thyssenkrupp Marine Systems, Russia’s Rubin Design Bureau, Spain’s Navantia and South Korea’s Daewoo Shipbuilding & Marine Engineering Company.
20-12-2021||India||Murders of SDPI, BJP leaders spark tension in Kerala’s Alappuzha, curfew imposed||The murders of two political activists in less than 12 hours in Kerala’s Alappuzha sparked unrest in the district, prompting authorities to impose curfew on Sunday for two days to prevent escalation. KS Shan (38), state secretary of Social Democratic Party of India, the political arm of the Popular Front of India, was knifed to death by assailants in the night of December 18. Ranjith Sreenivasan (40), state secretary of Bharatiya Janata Party’s OBC Morcha, died of stab wounds when a gang attacked him in his home on Sunday. Both the slain received more than 40 knife wounds, police said. The authorities have detained at least 50 people in connection with the killings, inspector general of police Harshita Attaluri said. Prohibitory orders under Section 144 of the Code of Criminal Procedure were clamped in the district for two days, and police have been deployed in the area to avert any further clashes, Attaluri said. Shan was attacked when he was returning home in Mannacherry on his scooter. The assailants, riding in a car, hit his scooter and, when he fell down, they stabbed him repeatedly, police said. He received multiple fractures and head injuries, and succumbed to wounds at a private hospital in Ernakulam. Shan is survived by his wife and two children. Sreenivasan was attacked on Sunday morning when he was coming out of his house for a stroll, police said. He was stabbed by a group of people in front of his mother and died on the way to hospital. Sreenivasan had unsuccessfully contested the Kerala assembly election in April this year.Chief minister Pinarayi Vijayan condemned the twin murders. “The government will not allow anyone to take law in their hands,” he said in state capital Thiruvananthapuram. “We will not tolerate any attempt to vitiate peaceful atmosphere of the state.” The state government has set up a special investigation team to probe the killings under supervision of additional director general of police Vijay Sakhre. It has also called an all-party meet in Alapuzha on Monday to discuss the situation.The SDPI alleged the Rashtriya Swayamsevak Sangh (RSS), ideological parent of the BJP, was behind Shan’s murder. “The RSS is trying to create mayhem by eliminating political opponents and silencing minority community members. It is a well planned and executed murder,” PFI state president CP Muhammed Basheer said. RSS state leader Valsan Thillankeri was in the district on Saturday and was “aware of the cold-blooded murder,” Basheer alleged. Thillankeri rejected the allegation, saying he attended a function in the district that was announced much earlier. The RSS had no role in the killing, he said. While there was no immediate provocation for the SDPI leader’s murder, police suspect it might be in retaliation to the murder of V Nandu, a worker of Akhil Bharatiya Vidyarthi Parishad, the student wing of RSS, in Vayalar in February this year, officers said, requesting anonymity. Clashes between RSS and SDPI workers are frequent in Kerala. Last month, RSS leader S Sanjith was stabbed to death in Palakkad by a gang of assailants.  As news of Sreenivasan’s death spread, BJP’s state president K Surendran alleged that the Kerala government’s support to the SDPI led to the gruesome murder. He sought an investigation by a central agency, saying the party will not get justice from state police. “The CPI(M) is running many local bodies with the help of SDPI,” Surendran said. “It supports the communal outfit to checkmate the RSS.”“Pinarayi Vijayan’s goonda raj took another precious life,” V Muraleedharan of the BJP, who is junior foreign minister at the Centre, tweeted on Sunday. “No law and order and killers go scot-free.” VD Satheesan of the Congress party, who is leader of the opposition in the state assembly, and state Congress president K Sudhakaran condemned the murders. “If police were alert, the second murder could have been avoided,” Satheesan said. “Police should be given a free hand to investigate both.” 
20-12-2021||India||Shiv Sena betrayed Hindutva for power in 2019 Maha polls: Shah||Union home minister Amit Shah on Sunday said it was decided between the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) and its then alliance partner Shiv Sena that the 2019 Maharashtra Assembly elections will be fought under the leadership of Devendra Fadnavis, but the Uddav Thackeray-led party compromised with Hindutva for power.He dared Maharashtra chief minister Uddhav Thackeray to resign from the office and fight elections again.“I was here during the Maharashtra elections. I myself had had a conversation with Shiv Sena. And I want to reiterate that it was decided that the election would be fought under the leadership of Devendra Fadnavis and the chief minister would be from the BJP. But they denied it. They compromised with Hindutva for power,” Shah said while addressing the BJP workers here.BJP and Shiv Sena contested the 2019 Assembly elections in Maharashtra in an alliance. However after the alliance emerged victorious, Sena parted ways from the BJP-led coalition over the issue of the chief minister’s post. Later, Thackeray joined hands with the Congress and Sharad Pawar’s Nationalist Congress Party (NCP) to form the Maha Vikas Aghadi (MVA) government.“They sat on the lap of the ones against whom they have been fighting for two generations. They claimed that we never agreed on making the chief minister from the BJP. In your presence, I and PM Modi had said that the election is being fought under the leadership of Devendra Fadnavis and he would be the chief minister. But since you had to be the chief minister, you betrayed us.”Shah was on a two-day visit to Maharashtra.In a scathing attack, Shah described the tripartite MVA dispensation as a “punctured rickshaw” whose wheels are going in three different directions and it causing only pollution. Playing on the DBT acronym of the Direct Benefit Transfer scheme of the Narendra Modi government, Shah said in the MVA government Congress takes the ‘D’ for a dealer, Shiv Sena the ‘B’ for a broker, and NCP the ‘T’ for transfers.Shah also sounded a bugle for the elections to municipal corporations, including Mumbai, which are due next year. He appealed to BJP workers to reach out to voters and explain to them about corruption and other irregularities committed by MVA.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/shiv-sena-betrayed-hindutva-for-power-in-2019-maharashtra-polls-amit-shah-101639938265185.html
20-12-2021||India||Opposition raises concerns over parts of two bills, wants detailed review||Opposition parties want detailed review of two legislations, pertaining to increasing the minimum age of marriage from 18 to 21 years for women and amendments to the Biological diversity bill, as they have reservations about some parts of the proposed bills.A senior Congress leader told HT on condition of anonymity that the bill that intends to increase the minimum legal age of marriage for women from 18 to 21 years “needs to be read very carefully”. The proposed bill was cleared by the Union cabinet last week, but is yet to be introduced in Parliament in the ongoing winter session, which only has four days remaining.The Congress leader also termed the bill as “potentially divisive” and aimed at “electoral benefits” after reports emerged that many Muslim organisations in Kerala have criticised the Union government’s move, which the Kerala Catholic Bishops Council (KCBC) has welcomed.“We will definitely ask the bill to be sent to a parliamentary committee for in-depth scrutiny,” said the leader, an Opposition strategist.The bill that aims to bring uniformity in the marriageable age of men and women may contain amendments to faith-based personal laws dealing with marriage and inheritance.Muslim League leader ET Mohammad Basheer on Friday introduced an adjournment motion in the Lok Sabha, saying the decision was against the Muslim personal law and that it was another step towards introducing a uniform civil code in the country.“We will oppose this. The government is trying to implement the Sangh Parivar’s favourite agenda of uniform civil code. The Muslim personal law board clearly defines marriage, divorce and right to property. These issues relate to our faith,” Basheer had said.Speaking about the Biodiversity bill that would be sent to a select panel, at least two other Opposition leaders maintained that the bill was brought without any consultation with stakeholders— a usual practice before bringing bills related to environment— and pointed out that “there is no provision in the bill to protect or increase the stake of local communities in sustainable use and conservation of biodiversity”.The Opposition finds the bill to cater benefits to the Ayush industry, but without any provision to enhance the protection of biodiversity.
20-12-2021||India||BJP’s farmers’ wing holds meet, hails PM for agri laws’ repeal||Union agriculture minister Narendra Singh Tomar on Sunday said that Prime Minister Narendra Modi has shown large-heartedness through his decision to repeal the farm laws. He said the PM didn’t want a disagreement in any part of the country as celebrations are going on to commemorate the 75th year of independence.“We are celebrating ‘Azadi ka Amrit Mahotsav’ to commemorate the 75th years of independence…The PM didn’t think it was appropriate that there was disagreement in any corner of the country. He has shown large-heartedness (aaitihasic badappan ka parichaye) through his decision to repeal the farm laws,” said Tomar while speaking to reporters after the national executive meeting organised by the BJP farmers’ wing in Gurugram on Sunday.Tomar said that the farm laws were introduced for the betterment of farmers, but a small section of people was against it.Speaking at the national executive, BJP president JP Nadda said that the central government is committed to the welfare of farmers and has taken several measures and implemented schemes in this regard. A senior BJP leader, aware of the development, said that Nadda asked party workers to tell farmers about the central government schemes.A political resolution to thank the PM for the work done by the government for farmers’ welfare and agricultural development was passed at the day-long meeting. The meeting comes ahead of the crucial assembly polls in five states.Of the five poll-bound states, farm agitation was a burning issue in two states, Uttar Pradesh and Punjab.“The party workers have been asked to hold meetings at the booth level and tell farmers about the schemes and initiatives taken by the central government,” said a senior party functionary who attended the event.BJP MP and national president of the party’s Kisan Morcha Rajkumar Chahar slammed the opposition parties for doing vote bank politics whereas the BJP is working for farmers’ welfare. He said that the farmers’ wing of the party would act as a “bridge between the government and the farmers”.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/bjps-farmers-wing-holds-meet-hails-pm-for-agri-laws-repeal-101639937963817.html
20-12-2021||India||Variant watch: What more we know of Omicron today||The mutations in the Omicron variant of Covid-19 make it better at cheating prior immunity, but possibly also compromise its ability to replicate and cause disease, found a study uploaded on Saturday by researchers at Cambridge University.The researchers studied the mechanism of infection of the latest variant of concern by looking at how it infected lab-grown lung cells. Omicron’s entry into the cells was significantly impaired, they found, and it did not lead to fusion of cells that leads to the formation of giant infected cells called syncitia.Entry into cell determines infectivity, while the formation of the giant cells most notably gave the Delta variant an ability to lead to substantially more severe disease, the authors explained.“What does this all mean? Efficient infection of lung cells could correlate with severity of lung disease. Syncitia or fused cells are often seen in respiratory tissues taken following severe disease. Delta was very good at both, in contrast to Omicron. Further work is needed,” Ravindra Gupta, professor of clinical microbiology at Cambridge’s department of medicine, said in a tweet on Saturday.The study is the second in two days to suggest the Omicron variant does not replicate as efficiently in the lung tissues as its ancestors. The first was by researchers at University of Hong Kong, who found a 10-fold drop in how the variant multiplied in the lungs, although its replication in the bronchus, the passage that leads air into the lungs, was significantly higher.Also read | 8 fresh cases of Covid’s Omicron variant, national tally rises to 153The Hong Kong study offered observations that seem to explain why the variant may be more fast-spreading. If there is more of the virus in a part of the airway such as the bronchus, it will be more readily spewed out by an infected person.On the other hand, if its ability to infect the lungs is impaired, it may not lead to as severe a disease as the other variants. Both studies appear to reach this inference, although the researchers involved in both have warned against drawing concrete conclusions since more studies are needed.The Cambridge study notes some new observations that might explain why the replication is impeded. The first is a change in the all-important spike protein, the protruding part of the virus that latches on to human cells before cleaving and initiating entry into the target cell.Also read | Threat of Omicron looms over Xmas holidays in Europe, USIn Omicron, it appears, the “cleavage efficiency is lower than for wild type Wuhan-1 D614G and Delta”, the Cambridge study said. Wuhan-1 D614G refers to the variant that swept across the world during the first wave that began in January 2020.The second reason appears to be an inherent loss in what is known as fusogenecity, or the characteristic of a cell (infected, in this case), to fuse with another.“In summary this work suggests that Omicron does appear to have become more immune evasive, but that properties associated with disease progression *may* be attenuated to some extent,” Gupta added in another tweet, in which he also stressed: “The significant growth of Omicron nevertheless represents a major public health challenge.”The virulence of Omicron is at present the most significant unknown that scientists are scrambling to understand. The variant has already demonstrated that it posses the two other traits that could make the pandemic flare again. It is significantly more transmissible and resistant than any prior configuration of the Sars-Cov-2 virus.
20-12-2021||India||Kolkata municipal elections: Crude bombs hurled, 72 arrested in city||Various incidents of violence, including hurling of crude bombs, marred polling to the Kolkata Municipal Corporation (KMC) even as West Bengal chief minister Mamata Banerjee said she was “happy (that) people voted peacefully”.While even the state election commission (SEC) and the police described the elections as “peaceful”, the opposition Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) demanded cancellation of the “violence-marred polls”. At least 63 per cent of the nearly 40.5 lakh voters exercised their franchise till 5 pm on Sunday, when voting ended, the SEC said.After casting her vote in Bhowanipore, chief minister Banerjee said: “I am happy people voted peacefully. Kolkata Police is carrying out its duties efficiently.”According to police, three people were injured after a crude bomb exploded near a polling station at Taki Boy’s School. One person was arrested in this regard. “We have also identified his associates but the names cannot be disclosed,” joint commissioner of police (headquarters) Subhankar Sinha Sarkar said.Two other crude bombs near Khanna cinema hall in central Kolkata also went off but nobody was injured in the incident, police said.At least five candidates belonging to the Trinamool Congress (TMC), BJP, Congress and the Left were hospitalised following clashes at various places.Police said political workers went on a rampage inside at least two polling booths, adding that as many as 72 people were arrested across the city till 2 pm. “The state election commission has also received complaints and forwarded them to us. We have filed action-taken reports,” Sarkar said. Alleging that the ruling party looted the votes, leader of opposition in state assembly Suvendu Adhikari said: “There was no voting but TMC looted votes today. The BJP has demanded that this KMC election be declared null and void and repolling be done. The state election commissioner is spineless. We will fight on the streets and also legally for this.” “The presiding officers in all polling booths became silent spectators when our agents were driven out. The TMC showed how low its confidence is even after winning 213 of the state’s 294 assembly seats six months ago,” state unit’s chief spokesperson Samik Bhattacharya said. The BJP alleged that Kolkata Police did not allow eight of its legislators to leave the government’s MLA Hostel near Park Street by locking the main gate. They also alleged that policemen were deployed outside Adhikari’s residence in Salt Lake. “The policemen could not produce any official order that said that BJP MLAs and MPs should be restrained till 5 pm. They only said they had instructions,” BJP state vice-president Jay Prakash Majumdar said. Dismissing the allegation, former mayor Firhad Hakim said: “This is a drama staged by the BJP. Can the police dare to stop the movement of legislators?”TMC national general secretary Abhishek Banerjee dismissed BJP’s allegation but said strong action will be taken if any TMC worker was found to be involved in violence and electoral malpractice. “The TMC cannot do anything if the BJP does not have the organisational strength to deploy polling agents. The polls were held peacefully barring some stray incidents. If the media has any photo or video footage, showing our workers involved in any incident, please make it public. Our party will give them exemplary punishment and so will the administration,” he said. The Left, meanwhile, has announced to hold statewide agitations from Monday. The ruling TMC currently controls 126 of the total 144 civic wards.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/kolkata-municipal-elections-crude-bombs-hurled-72-arrested-in-city-101639937787176.html
20-12-2021||India||‘Guilty conscience’: CM Yogi Adityanath rebuts SP chief Akhilesh Yadav||Uttar Pradesh chief minister Yogi Adityanath on Sunday said the income tax department’s raids on Samajwadi Party leaders were causing heartburn to the Akhilesh Yadav-led opposition party in the state. “I was watching yesterday (Saturday) that income tax raids were causing much heartburn to the Samajwadi Party leadership. I asked someone what was the reason and he said that it was a classic case of guilty conscience,” he said during the launch of the Bharatiya Janata Party’s (BJP’s) ‘Jan Vishwas Yatra’ from Mathura on Sunday. “Could you ever believe that someone’s income would increase 200 times in five years? But then everything was possible in SP’s rule.” Attacking the opposition parties ahead of the 2022 Uttar Pradesh assembly elections, he claimed, “Earlier, opposition parties were afraid of even taking names of Ayodhya, Kashi and Mathura and were in a race to wear skullcaps only.” Skullcap is worn by Muslims. Samajawadi Party state spokesperson Rajendra Chaudhary said: “On failing on all fronts from law and order to development, all that the ruling BJP had been doing is decisive politics and politics of hatred. But now all this won’t work. This government is on it’s way out, BJP will get historic defeat”.The chief minister further claimed that the Opposition parties did not like the ongoing development works in Uttar Pradesh, and were rather happy when the mafia was powerful in the state and terrorists were being released. “Would there have been action against the mafia and criminals, if the SP (Samajwadi Party), BSP (Bahujan Samaj Party) or the Congress had been in power?” he asked. “The Opposition parties dislike action against mafia, all-round development, free connection of electricity in village, free ration to poor, better law and order situation,” Adityanath said in his 28-minute address, claiming actions taken by his government are a symbol of ‘Ram Rajya’. The ‘Jan Vishwas Yatra’ is scheduled to pass through Mathura, Aligarh, Hathras, Agra, Firozabad, Mainpuri, Etah, Kasganj, Badaun, Bareilly and Shahjahanpur before reaching Pilibhit on the night of December 31. The BJP’s six yatras — which were flagged off simultaneously on Sunday from Mathura, Bijnor, Jhansi, Ambedkar Nagar, Ballia and Ghazipur — will cover all 403 assembly constituencies of state ahead of the polls due in early next year. The party aims to communicate the achievements of the five-year BJP rule in Uttar Pradesh to the people in different parts of the state, said Nagendra Prasad Dubey, the convener of the yatra for Braj prant. On the occasion, Adityanath said he was in Mathura for the 19th time in his tenure as the chief minister and considered it as a blessing for him. Blaming the previous regime for tarnishing Mathura’s image, he claimed that there used to be riots in Kosi Kalan town of Mathura district. He even referred to violence at Jawahar Bagh in the heart of Mathura city on June 2, 2016 when 29 people, including two police officers, were killed in clashes between encroachers and police under the SP regime. In comparison, he claimed, there has not been a single riot in UP during the BJP rule. The chief minister first visited Sri Krishna Janmabhoomi temple after reaching Mathura on Sunday and said the state government was fully committed to preserving the “aastha” (faith) of people in Mathura, the land of Krishna. On Saturday, the income tax department conducted raids at the Vishal Khand, Gomtinagar (Lucknow) residence of Jainendra Yadav, who was the OSD when Akhilesh was the chief minister, Mau’s Sahadatpura residence of party spokesperson Rajiv Rai, the Mainpuri residence of prominent contractor Manoj Yadav, owner of RCL. A Lucknow-based businessman, too, was among those raided. Rajiv Rai, whose personal website described him as the most important person in Team Akhilesh, called the raids “politically motivated”. “Do they have the courage to carry out raids on other BJP leaders?” said Rai who was the SP’s Lok Sabha candidate for Ghosi in 2014 and is also the founder and chairman of AVK Group of Institutions, a chain in Bengaluru. The Congress has also criticised the raids. “This scared government is trying to scare rivals. But no one is going to be intimidated. Such raids will backfire on them just as they did in Karnataka and West Bengal polls. There too there were similar raids,” Anshu Awasthi, UP Congress spokesperson. However, UP BJP chief Swatantra Dev said that unlike past regimes, under BJP, the investigating agencies were free. “Those who have nothing to hide shouldn’t fear. The investigating agencies would check anyone including me, if they have reasonable grounds to do so. Why this brouhaha over these raids?” he asked. 
20-12-2021||India||J&K: LeT commander linked to civilian killings shot dead||A Pakistani group commander of terror outfit Lashkar-e-Taiba (LeT) was killed in an encounter with security forces in Srinagar on Sunday, Jammu and Kashmir Police said. According to the police, the slain terrorist was identified as Saifulla alias Abu Khalid or Shawaz, a resident of Karachi in Pakistan, and he was affiliated with the proscribed terror outfit LeT. Inspector General of Police, Kashmir range, Vijay Kumar said, “He infiltrated in 2016 and was active in general area of Harwan (in Srinagar district) and involved in several terror crimes.” “With the elimination of Saifulla, three Pakistani terrorists have been killed so far in Srinagar city within almost a month. They were involved in several terror crime cases, which clearly shows that Pakistan is hell-bent to disturb the peace in Kashmir Valley especially in Srinagar city,” Kumar added. On Sunday morning, the police, Army and Central Reserve Police Force launched a joint operation based on specific information by the Srinagar police regarding the presence of a terrorist in Theed Harwan area of the district, a police spokesperson said. During the search operation, as the presence of the trapped terrorist was ascertained, he was given ample opportunities to surrender, the spokesperson added. “However, he denied the surrender opportunities and fired indiscriminately upon the joint search party, which was retaliated leading to an encounter. In the ensuing encounter, the trapped terrorist was killed and his body was retrieved,” the spokesperson said. The police said an AK-47 rifle, three magazines and a grenade were recovered from his possession. As per police records, Saifulla had infiltrated in 2016 via Bandipora Sector. “Later on, he sneaked into Srinagar district on the directions of Pakistan-based commanders of LeT outfit for intensifying terror activities in the districts of Pulwama, Srinagar, Ganderbal and Budgam,” the spokesperson said. The slain terrorist was working as a group commander of LeT in Srinagar district. “He was operating in Srinagar district earlier too and was familiar with the topography of Srinagar and Pulwama and their outskirts. He has also been involved in receiving new groups of foreign terrorists after infiltration,” the spokesperson added. The police said the slain terrorist had a history of terror crime cases and was wanted by law for his complicity in terror crime cases, which include attacks on police, security forces and killing of civilians. Saifulla, along with his associates, was involved in attack on an Army convoy at Bemina bypass on the national highway near JVC Hospital in Srinagar on April 1, 2017, in which three army jawans were injured, police said. “He was also the mastermind behind the attack carried out by his associates at Lawaypora Srinagar, in which two security personnel were martyred and one AK-47 rifle was snatched,” the spokesman said. The police said the terrorist was also involved in an attack on police party of PS Bandipora at Gulshan Chowk Bandipora in which two police personnel were killed. “He was also involved in killing of civilians, including BJP leader Waseem Bari, his brother and father on July 8 last year,” the spokesperson said. The police also claimed that he was also mastermind behind the revival of terror folds by luring the gullible youth and a number of fresh recruitments of local youth into terrorist ranks. “He was also instrumental in reactivation of hardcore terrorist associates of LeT outfit in the areas of Srinagar and Pulwama districts,” the police said. Meanwhile, security forces on Sunday arrested a terrorist associate in Anantnag district of Jammu and Kashmir and seized ammunition from him, police said. “Anantnag Police and (Army’s) 1 RR (Rashtriya Rifles) arrested a terrorist associate, identified as Feroz Ahmad Zargar alias Kamraan, a resident of Gratbal Quimoh Kulgam,” a police spokesperson said. A Chinese Pistol along with a magazine and other ammunition were recovered from his possession, the spokesperson said, adding police have registered a case and an investigation has been initiated.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/jk-let-commander-linked-to-civilian-killings-shot-dead-101639937603713.html
20-12-2021||India||Day after incident, another man lynched over alleged sacrilege||A day after a man was killed over an alleged sacrilege bid at the Golden Temple, another unidentified person was beaten to death for allegedly disrespecting a Sikh religious flag at a gurdwara in Punjab’s Kapurthala district on Sunday, officials familiar with the matter said. Police, however, said there was “no visible sign” of sacrilege and it appeared as though the man had the intention of committing theft at the gurdwara.Providing details, Kapurthala senior superintendent of police (SSP) Harkamalpreet Singh Khakh said the incident took place in Nizampur village when villagers and members of Sikh organisations kept the man hostage and refused to hand him over to police despite repeated requests. Khakh said the villagers were infuriated after the man, who was believed to be in his 20s and a migrant worker, allegedly disrespected the Nishan Sahib (a Sikh flag) in the wee hours of the day. The gurdwara’s manager, Amarjit Singh, said he saw the man committing the sacrilege. Singh claimed the man attempted to flee but was caught by the gurdwara sewadars (volunteers) after a chase, the SSP said.“After a video of Singh narrating the early morning incident went viral on social media, a mob comprising villagers and members of Sikh groups gathered outside the gurdwara to punish the man,” Khakh said. On receiving information, police rushed to the spot and urged the Sikh groups to hand over the accused. As police tried to control the mob, a clash erupted and it was during this time that the protesters brutally thrashed the man, the SSP said.The man was rushed in a critically injured condition to the local civil hospital where doctors declared him “brought dead”. Meanwhile, three police personnel, including the station house officer of Shubanpur police station, were injured in the clash, police said. “They killed the youth even as police tried their level best to handle the situation,” the SSP said.The protesters, police said, claimed that various state governments had always failed to deliver justice in sacrilege incidents having taken place in the past. However, Jalandhar inspector general of police (IGP) Gurinder Singh Dhillon told reporters that a preliminary probe indicated that no sacrilege of Guru Granth Sahib, the religious book of the Sikhs, or other religious textbooks like Gutka Sahib had taken place. There was no visible sign of any disrespect to the Nishan Sahib, he said. “Still we have registered a case under section 295-A (hurting religious sentiments) and other relevant sections of the Indian Penal Code at Kotwali police station, Kapurthala, on the basis of a complaint by the gurdwara’s manager. A probe is underway,” Dhillon said. Police said two school ID cards were found with the accused and a woman claimed that the cards belonged to her children.While the SSP had earlier said that a murder case would be registered against the accused, he and Dhillon later clarified that no separate case will be filed and the murder angle will be probed under the same FIR. 
20-12-2021||India||No surge in Covid-19 cases, but vulnerable lag in full vaccination||Over 150 cases of the Omicron variant of the Sars-CoV-2 have been detected in India so far. However, unlike the surge seen in South Africa after detection of the more infectious variant, there is no rapid rise in Omicron cases in India yet. But we have to keep in mind that India’s population is about 20 times that of South Africa. Are there local outbreaks in the country already? More importantly, how protected is India should an outbreak occur? Apart from transmissibility, Omicron is proving to be more resistant to vaccines than its predecessors. It means at least two doses of a Covid-19 vaccine, if not a booster dose, might turn out to be a necessary tool in keeping the share of severe cases low and reducing hospitalizations. Here are four charts that explain how India is doing on these fronts.Currently no surge in cases and positivity rate, even at the district levelThe weekly average of daily Covid-19 cases was 7,117 on December 18, down from 8,673 on December 6 and 8,048 on December 12, and the lowest since the week ended May 31, 2020. There is, therefore, no surge in cases. However, as India is a large country, a rise in cases in one place can be offset by a larger decline in another. District data compiled by How India Lives shows that even such local outbreaks are not taking place currently. HT analysed the growth rate of cases at the district level between three dates, each two weeks apart, between November 16 and November 30, and between November 30 and December 14. The weekly average of cases grew in both fortnights for only 13 of the 707 districts for which data is available. Despite growth in cases over the past month, the seven-day average was less than 50 in all these 11 of the 13 districts. In Hyderabad and Bangalore, cases have grown and are more than 50. Last week’s average was 78 cases in Hyderabad and 187 cases in Karnataka.Is the low number of cases because of low testing? Cumulative tests have indeed fallen since the peak of the second wave but have not caused a high positivity rate. Positivity rate averaged 0.59% nationwide in the week ended December 15. The health ministry releases a list of districts with high weekly positivity rates. 25 districts had positivity rate above 5% in the week to December 15. 15 of these were from Arunachal Pradesh, Mizoram, Nagaland and Sikkim, where cases are declining in all districts. Nine districts are from Kerala. In three of them – Pathanamthita, Kannuar and Kottayam – cases have increased in the past fortnight by 2%-10% after declining around 40%-50% the fortnight before. In Kolkata, where positivity rate was 5.9%, cases have declined 22% in the past fortnight.Second dose coverage is still low in about a third of districtsIndia is, however, ill-prepared in case there is a surge. Early studies suggest the Omicron variant might be more resistant to vaccines, HT reported on December 12 (https://bit.ly/3GIeNYS). Late last week, the first real-world evidence arrived of how vaccine efficacy against symptomatic Covid-19 all but erodes in case of an infection with the Omicron variant, suggesting that boosters might be needed for those who have received Covishield jabs. This makes for speeding up full vaccination all the more necessary. 36% districts (229 of 628) are still lagging on this metric, with less than 50% adults fully vaccinated. Since official population projections are not available at the district level, HT has used the number of electors in the district at the time of the 2019 Lok Sabha elections as a proxy for the adult population.A third of 45+ age group, half of rural India not fully vaccinatedCovid-19 vaccinations for those at 45 years and above, who are more vulnerable to severe disease and death, started on April 1, a month before those in the 18-45 years old age group began receiving jabs. Those with co-morbidities in the older age group were being jabbed even before April. Yet, 34% of the 45+ age group is not yet fully vaccinated, according to age-wise vaccination update of the health ministry on December 18. On the other hand, while there is only an eight percentage point difference in first dose coverage between the older and younger age groups, the gap in second dose coverage is wider at 17.2 percentage points. It means the young will also be vulnerable if Omicron proves to be more severe than its predecessors.The 45+ age group needs full vaccination and possibly boosters because they are vulnerable to severe disease. Rural India, on the other hand, is vulnerable because it lacks health facilities. While scaling up health infrastructure is a time-consuming and expensive exercise, vaccinations, which have to be inevitably given to every person, can be a pre-emptive tool against catastrophes. However, this group is also not sufficiently covered with full vaccination. Only 55% of the population in rural districts is fully vaccinated, compared to 60% in mixed districts, and 73% in urban areas. Districts with the share of rural population below 40% in the 2011 census are considered urban, those with more than 60% rural population are considered rural, and the rest are considered mixed. While rural areas are indeed getting more doses per million population now than urban areas, this reversal has happened only in late October.Past vaccination rates suggest we can speed up to cover the vulnerableThere is no reason why these vulnerable groups cannot be vaccinated at a faster rate. India administered over 236 million doses in September. In October and November, only 173 and 178 million doses were administered. While the speed in December so far looks to surpass the rate of the past two months – 135 million doses have been administered so far – it will be important to keep this rate up, possibly by reaching out to the elderly, and those in remote and rural areas.Also read | Omicron could be behind Delhi's Covid cases spike; Feb, March ‘convenient’ for virus: AIIMS professor||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/no-surge-in-covid-cases-but-vulnerable-lag-in-full-vaccination-101639937062985.html
20-12-2021||India||Upset at low price, MP farmer sets dozens of kilos of garlic on fire||A farmer set fire to dozens of kilograms of garlic at a farm produce market in Madhya Pradesh’s Mandsaur after his harvest failed to fetch what he thought was a fair price.Shankar Singh, a farmer from Mahidpur in Ujjain, was offered around ₹1,400 per 100kg for his garlic crop at an auction in Mandsaur Krishi Upaj Mandi Samiti on Saturday because the quality was poor, market inspector Jagdish Babar said on Sunday.Over 8,000 sacks of garlic arrived at the market on Saturday, which were sold between ₹1,000 and ₹12,000 per 100kg, depending on the quality, he said.“Angry that his crop fetched such a low rate, the farmer set some 50-60kg of garlic on fire,” Babar said. Average quality garlic was sold between ₹2,500 and ₹5,500 per 100kg, the market official said.Singh, a resident of Deoli village in Ujjain, however, said he burnt nearly 150kg of garlic of the 200kg that he took to the market. “I invested nearly ₹30,000 in garlic cultivation, but I was only getting ₹2,000 after the auction,” he said, adding that he did not have the money to take back the produce and store it.“I do not want any bonus from the government, just the right price for my crop,” Singh said.A video of the incident circulating on social media showed people standing around the burning heap of garlic and shouting patriotic slogans.“The rate of garlic, which had been increased to ₹20,000 per quintal (100kg) a few months ago, has now decreased to ₹1,400 to ₹12,000 as per the quality of the garlic,” market secretary Parvat Singh Sisodiya said.“But nothing happened on Saturday to upset the farmers so much,” Sisodiya said. He filed a complaint with Yashodharman police, alleging that the incident was planned.“Police are investigating as mandi secretary filed a complaint with the Yashodharman police station,” Mandsaur superintendent of police Sunil Kumar Pandey said.The state government should pay heed to the incident as “Mandsaur was a centre of farmers protest in 2017,” a local farmer leader said.“Mandsaur is stated to be one of the biggest mandis in the state and farmers from neighbouring districts sell their produce here. Farmers usually get a good price for their garlic, but now they are facing difficulties in even getting the cost price,” said Paramjeet Singh. “The state government should pay attention to it because Mandsaur was a centre of farmers protest in 2017, which later turned violent and claimed lives of six farmers.”He was referring to the farmers’ agitation that began from Mandsaur produce market in 2017, where farmers sought better prices for their produce. Within days, the protests turned violent and six farmers died.“We came to know about the incident and will take action accordingly,” said Bharat Singh Kushwaha, the state’s horticulture minister. “We will ensure that farmers do not face any loss.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/upset-at-low-price-mp-farmer-sets-dozens-of-kilos-of-garlic-on-fire-101639937002943.html
20-12-2021||India||Punjab forms SIT to probe sacrilege bid at Golden Temple||The Punjab government has formed a special investigation team (SIT) to probe the alleged sacrilege attempt at the Golden Temple on Saturday, deputy chief minister Sukhjinder Singh Randhawa said on Sunday, even as the police continued their efforts to ascertain the identity of the man who was beaten to death soon after the incident.Randhawa, who also holds the home portfolio, held a meeting with the deputy commissioner, the police commissioner, the inspector general of police (border range), the Amritsar rural SSP and other officials.Calling the incident “most unfortunate”, he said the SIT has been constituted under the deputy commissioner of police (law and order) Parminder Singh Bhandal, which would submit its report in two days.Also read | Day after Golden Temple sacrilege attempt, Punjab CM blames ‘bad elements’The accused, Randhawa said, entered the shrine “with a target” and spent a few hours at the holiest shrine of the Sikhs.“It has also come to the fore during our preliminary investigation that the accused entered the Sri Darbar Sahib (Golden Temple) complex at 11.30am and he stayed near the Parikarma of the shrine, which suggested that the accused was here with a target. He also slept in front of the Akal Takht for some time,” he said.A case under Section 295A (deliberate and malicious acts, intended to outrage religious feelings of any class by insulting its religion or religious beliefs) of the Indian Penal Code has been registered against the unidentified accused, Amritsar police commissioner Sukhchain Singh Gill said on Sunday. Section 307 for attempt to murder has also been added in the FIR as the accused, before being pulled away, picked up a diamond-encrusted sword placed in front of the Guru Granth Sahib, Gill said.In videos of the incident, which were widely circulated on social media on Saturday, the man can be seen jumping across the railings inside the sanctum sanctorum of the Golden Temple, picking up the sword and approaching the priest who was reciting evening prayers. He was caught by Shiromani Gurdwara Parbandhak Committee (SGPC) task force members.When he was being taken to the SGPC office, angry pilgrims grabbed him and beat him to death before police arrived.Randhawa said he spoke to the SGPC president and the Akal Takht jathedar (head priest) after the incident.The man was yet to be identified, he said.“No mobile phone, no wallet, no identity card or Aadhaar card was found on him,” the deputy chief minister said.Punjab chief minister Charanjit Singh Channi, who visited the shrine on Sunday, alleged that some “inimical” forces may be involved in the incident in view of the upcoming Assembly polls. “I appeal to the sangat that they should pay special attention to take care of religious places—temples and gurdwaras—and institutions of all religions. People should maintain peace and mutual brotherhood,” said Channi.The state is scheduled to go to the polls early next year.If anyone has come with wrong intention, our intelligence agencies will try to nab and expose them, he said. “We will go to the bottom of the incident,” Channi said.Randhawa told the media that video footage from CCTV cameras inside the Golden Temple and markets adjoining the shrine was being examined for more details about the accused.The deputy chief minister said the state government would write to the Centre seeking approval to amendments in Section 298 and 295-A of the Indian Penal Code, as resolved by Punjab Assembly in 2018.Under Section 295 and 295-A, the offence is punishable with a a sentence of two and three years, respectively.The amendment resolved by the assembly added provisions for imprisonment of 10 years for anyone committing sacrilege against the sacred symbols of any religion, he said.(With agency inputs)
20-12-2021||India||Yellow alert in Capital as mercury dips below 4°C||Cold wave conditions were recorded in parts of the National Capital Region, with the temperature falling below 4 degrees Celsius in some areas of the city on Sunday for the first time this winter, according to the India Meteorological Department (IMD).Although Safdarjung, Delhi’s base station, recorded the season’s minimum of 4.6 degrees, which was three notches below normal, the temperature fell to 3.3 degrees at Jafarpur and 3.6 degrees at Lodhi Road, IMD said. A yellow alert is issued to ask the people in an area to remain vigilant about the weather conditions.Several parts of northwest India recorded subzero temperatures. Both the day’s high and low were several notches below normal in Rajasthan, Punjab, Haryana and Jammu & Kashmir. The cold wave is likely to remain till Wednesday, the weather office said, and conditions may improve slightly after that.Day temperatures in Delhi on Monday will likely be around 19 degrees Celsius since wind speeds are falling. Night temperatures in the Capital are expected to hover around 4 degrees, according to the forecast.The Safdarjung observatory recorded a high of 19.2 degrees, three degrees below normal. The maximum temperature fell to just 16.2 degrees at Mayur Vihar and 16.5 degrees at Jafarpur on Sunday.“We saw cold wave conditions at Lodhi Road and Jafarpur,” Met department scientist RK Jenamani said. “Similarly, we saw cold day conditions in some parts of Delhi, even though Safdarjung’s maximum was just three degrees below normal.”The weather department declares a cold day if the maximum temperature is 4.5 degrees below normal. It announces a cold wave if the day’s low is either 4.5 degrees below normal, or is below 4 degrees.Since the north wind is slowing, temperatures may rise slightly in the coming days. “Wind speed, which was around 30-40kmph on Saturday, dropped to 10-15kmph on Sunday, and will decline further on Monday,” Jenamani said. “This will make the day slightly more bearable.”Sikar in east Rajasthan recorded minus 2.5 degrees, 8.5 degrees below normal. Churu in the western part of the desert state recorded minus 2.6 degrees, 8.4 degrees below normal. Amritsar in Punjab saw minus 0.5 degrees, 4.3 degrees below normal, and a maximum of 15.5 degrees, 5 degrees below normal. Bathinda recorded 0.1 degree, 3.5 degrees below normal and a maximum of 17.6, 4 degrees below normal.“Very cold and dry northerly winds are blowing over the entire northwestern region, which is bringing down both night and day temperatures,” said DS Pai, head of climate research at the Met department’s Pune office. “This may abate after December 22.”“Ground frost is expected in all areas recording subzero temperatures,” Jenamani said. “We have issued a warning for its impact on agriculture.”Saturday was Delhi’s first cold day of the season, when the maximum fell to just 17.8 degrees at Safdarjung, five below notches normal. The minimum was 6 degrees.Harsh conditions are expected on Monday but Delhi could get a respite between December 22 and 25, with a fresh western disturbance set to influence the region, according to Mahesh Palawat, vice president at private forecaster Skymet.“From December 21, we will see a slight rise in temperature, and from December 22, there will be a change in wind direction to the southeast,” Palawat said. “Once the cold northwesterly winds stop blowing, we will automatically see both maximum and minimum rise by 2-3 degrees.”The high winds in the past few days helped disperse some of Delhi’s pollutants, and air quality improved marginally. The Air Quality Index (AQI) on Sunday was 271, categorised as “poor”, the Central Pollution Control Board said in its daily bulletin at 4pm. It stood at 291 (“poor”) on Saturday as well.Experts said the respite could be temporary. “Wind speed is dropping, and under the influence of a cold wave, the air is becoming heavier, and pollutants will find it harder to disperse,” said Gufran Beig, project director at the System of Air Quality and Weather Forecasting and Research.High AQI values mean people could experience breathing discomfort and the pollution watchdog suggests limiting prolonged exposure by staying indoors.No significant change in minimum temperatures is likely over most parts of northwest India, Gujarat and Maharashtra in the next two days, the weather office said. It may rise by 2-3 degrees from Wednesday. A gradual fall in minimum temperatures by 2-3 degree is likely over most parts of east and adjoining central India in the next three days.Cold wave conditions are likely in some parts of Jammu & Kashmir, Himachal Pradesh, Uttarakhand, Uttar Pradesh and Chhattisgarh on Monday. Cold day conditions are likely in a few pockets in Uttarakhand, Madhya Pradesh and Uttar Pradesh.Dense morning fog is likely over Uttarakhand in the next two days and over Punjab and Haryana on December 23 and 24. Ground frost in the morning is likely in some areas of Punjab, Haryana, Chandigarh, Rajasthan, Madhya Pradesh and the foothills of Himalayas in the next two days.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/yellow-alert-in-capital-as-mercury-dips-below-4c-101639936943000.html
20-12-2021||India||UP govt tapping SP leaders’ phones, alleges Akhilesh||Samajwadi Party national president Akhilesh Yadav on Sunday accused Uttar Pradesh chief minister Yogi Adityanath of getting telephones and mobile phones of his party leaders tapped and listening to the conversations every evening.Addressing a press conference at the party’s state headquarters in Lucknow, the SP chief said, “All the SP office phones and the mobile phones of all those associated with us are being listened to. The chief minister, every evening, himself listens to the recording of the phone conversations taken to him by the officers.”“If this chief minister works 24 hours a day, what else does he do? Work generally finishes by the evening,” Yadav said.When asked who was giving instructions to officers for allegedly tapping phones of SP leaders, Yadav said it was being done at the orders of the “un-upyogi” (useless) government and “un-upyogi mukhya mantri (chief minister)”.The SP leader also said that if returned to power, his government will “turn the bulldozers on such police officers. Some people are engaged in keeping him (the CM) happy during his last days in power.”Uttar Pradesh will go to assembly polls in February-March next year.Yadav said the “fear of imminent defeat” in the 2022 assembly elections was nagging the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP).“The fear of the defeat first spurred the BJP to bring in big leaders, Union ministers in UP (for campaigning), then using central agencies against the SP leaders. They have brought in the income-tax department and will bring in ED, CBI and other agencies in the days to come. The BJP government at the Centre had been using these tactics in the non-BJP ruled states to win power. In UP, they are using it to try to prevent the SP from returning to power,” claimed Yadav.When asked if he would complain about it at an appropriate forum, Yadav said: “No, we will not go anywhere. We will simply oust this government. People are restive to throw away this government and bring the SP back to power. They are eagerly waiting for the poll notification and the voting dates.”Prime Minister Narendra Modi, after laying the foundation stone of the Ganga Expressway in Shahjahanpur on Saturday, had praised chief minister Yogi Adityanath for “eliminating” mafias and undertaking a lot of developmental work in the state, saying “UP plus Yogi bahut hai upyogi.”.Yadav’s reference to the chief minister as “un-upyogi” was seen as a counter to Modi’s “UP+Yogi=Upyogi”.On Saturday’s income-tax raids on some SP leaders, the former chief minister said: “If this government thinks that the Samajwadi Vijay Rath will halt because of I-T raids, then it is mistaken. The raids have proved that the SP is coming to power. Vijay Rath will stop only when people elect the SP government.”Yadav’s Vijay Yatra has completed seven phases so far. During the yatra, the SP chief has been campaigning from a motorised rath (bus). The eighth phase of the yatra, covering Mainpuri to Etah, will begin on Tuesday.Rajiv Rai, one of the SP leaders whose houses/establishments were raided by the I-T department, shared the dais with the party chief at the press conference. Rai, who is also a SP spokesperson, said: “For the last 20 years, I had been filing all the relevant papers with the income tax department. Why did the department not do any procedural thing then? It’s obvious they are trying to intimidate us, scare us. But we are Samajwadis (socialists) and can’t be scared.”According to information, the I-T department on Saturday searched the premises of SP leaders Jainendra Yadav “Nitu”, a close aide of Akhilesh Yadav (in Vishal Khand, Gomti Nagar), the party’s spokesperson Rajiv Rai (Sahadatpura premises in Mau and also in Bengaluru, Karnataka) and another SP leader and contractor Manoj Yadav (Vanshi Ghora, Mainpuri).Needs BJP reax
20-12-2021||India||Service of humanity is India’s identity: Modi during Goa visit||Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Sunday said that Goa would have been liberated from Portuguese rule much earlier had the country’s first home minister Sardar Vallabhbhai Patel lived for some more time.Modi, who arrived on a day-long visit to the poll-bound state, was speaking at an event on the occasion of Goa Liberation Day, at Dr Shyama Prasad Mukherjee Stadium here, when he said: “Had Sardar Vallabhbhai Patel been alive for a little more time, Goa would have been liberated earlier.” Patel, who served as deputy prime minister in the Jawaharlal Nehru cabinet, died on December 15, 1950. He is credited with the liberation of Marathwada region in Maharashtra from erstwhile Nizam’s rule. Modi said the state came under Portugal rule when a majority of the country was ruled by Mughals, but centuries later, neither has Goa forgotten its Indianness, nor has India forgotten Goa. “People from all corners of India came and joined hands together. Goa was conquered by the Portuguese at a time when, in another part of the country, the Mughals had an empire. Since then, the country has seen so many political storms… despite the passage of time and changes in power, Goa did not forget its Indianness nor did India forget its Goa,” he told the gathering. “From the Cuncolim rebellion to the Maratha conflict led by Chatrapati Shivai Maharaj and Sambhaji, there were efforts to free Goa. The Pinto revolt was led by the native Christians. This is the identity of India. Service of humanity. The efforts were made from so many corners. The country became independent before Goa. Most people of India had got their rights. Now they had the time to live their own dream, yet so many freedom fighters gave up on all this and continued to struggle and sacrifice themselves for Goa’s freedom,” he said. In the past, several Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) leaders had blamed Nehru for the delay in liberation of Goa.On December 19, 1961, Indian armed forces freed the coastal state from Portuguese rule in an operation codenamed ‘Operation Vijay’ after all diplomatic efforts between India and Portugal to get the former imperial power to relinquish control of Goa failed. To mark the day, the Prime Minister paid tributes to freedom fighters, both from and outside Goa who sacrificed their lives for the Liberation Movement, at the martyr’s memorial here. He also felicitated others freedom fighters and veterans of ‘Operation Vijay’ at the function. He witnessed a fly past and sail parade at Miramar.Modi also inaugurated multiple development projects, worth ₹650 crore, including a superspeciality block of Goa Medical College and Hospital and the renovated Fort Aguada jail museum.“Goa needs to make a new resolution. You should ask yourselves where you want Goa to be by the time it celebrates 75 years of Liberation. Make new resolutions. It needs continuity. It should stay the same in the future. We should not stop. We need to not decrease our speed (of development),” Modi said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/service-of-humanity-is-india-s-identity-modi-during-goa-visit-101639936165569.html
20-12-2021||NA||Breaking highlights: Suvendu Adhikari holds sit-in at election commissioner office in Kolkata||Breaking news updates December 19, 2021: Get latest news, breaking news, latest updates, live news, top headlines, breaking business news and top news of the hour.Follow all the updates here:Suvendu Adhikari holds sit-in at State Election Commissioner Office in Kolkata#WATCH | West Bengal LoP Suvendu Adhikari with BJP delegation in a sit-in strike inside the State Election Commissioner Office(Source: BJP) pic.twitter.com/2gMJ42hUxBLeader of Opposition Suvendu Adhikari holds a sit-in inside the State Election Commissioner Office, demanding a re-polling for Kolkata Municipal elections held on Sunday.Developmental works worth ₹1 crore underway in Uttarakhand, says Union minister Anurag ThakurUnion minister Anurag Thakur on Sunday said that developmental works worth ₹1 lakh crore are currently underway in Uttarakhand. Notably, the northern hill state is slated to go into polls next year.Inviting just 4 Opp parties over suspension issue 'unfair': KhargeIn a letter to the central government, Rajya Sabha leader of opposition Mallikarjun Kharge said that all opposition parties are united in the protest against the suspension of 12 opposition MPs from the Parliament; hence inviting only four to a meeting is unreasonable.Tanzania national tests positive for Omicron in Gujarat's RajkotA Tanzania national aged 23, studying at a university in Gujarat's Rajkot, has tested positive for the Omicron variant of Covid-19, ANI reported citing the district collector Arun Mahesh Babu. “He has been admitted to PDU hospital. This is the first Omicron case in the district,” Babu told ANI.UK logs 12,133 more confirmed Omicron cases in 24 hoursGreat Britain logged 12,133 more confirmed Omicron cases of Covid-19 in the last 24 hours, Reuters reported on Sunday.Maharashtra reports six new cases of OmicronMaharashtra on Sunday reported six fresh cases of Omicron variant of Covid-19. Of these new cases, four were confirmed at the Mumbai airport. The state's Omicron tally has now climbed to 54.Policeman shot at inside his home in J&KA policeman, identified as Mushtaq Ahmad Wagay, was shot at inside his home in Jammu and Kashmir's Pulwama on Sunday. Suspected militants are behind the incident. SP Ghulam Jeelani confirmed the incident and said that the police officer is now “stable.”MVA govt is like a three-wheeler auto: Amit Shah in PuneUnion home minister Amit Shah on Sunday called the Maha Vikas Aghadi (MVA) government in Maharashtra as the “three-wheeler auto whose three tires are going in different directions and all tires are punctured,” according to ANI. “It is not running and is only causing pollution,” he added after laying the foundation stone of the Chhatrapati Shivaji Maharaj statue in the city.Delhi logs 107 new Covid cases, highest single-day rise in 6 monthsDelhi on Sunday reported 107 new Covid-19 cases, which is the city's highest single-day rise in six months. The total tally of the national capital stands at 14,42,197.Kenyan women detained with gold hidden in spices bottles, undergarments, footwearAs many as 18 Kenyan women were detained with 4kg of gold worth ₹2 crore at theMumbai International Airport, ANI reported citing the Mumbai Customs. These women concealed the metal in the border part of spices bottles, undergarments and footwear.TMC appoints Pavan K Varma as party's vice presidentTrinamool Congress on Sunday announced that it has appointed Pavan K Varma as the party's vice president.Punjab CM Channi visits Golden Temple#WATCH Punjab CM Charanjit Singh Channi visits Golden Temple in AmritsarPunjab government has constituted SIT to probe sacrilege attempt at the Golden Temple pic.twitter.com/gMXmBNPPFYPunjab chief minister Charanjit Singh Channi visits Golden Temple in Amritsar. Earlier in the day, the state government constituted a SIT to investigate the sacrilege incident at the temple.‘Free water’ in Chandigarh if AAP comes to power: KejriwalThese garbage dump mountains, like in Daddu Majra Colony, will be removed. We'll make sure Chandigarh becomes the most beautiful city in all of Asia, yet again. Water & electricity is free in Delhi. Chandigarh will also get free water: Delhi CM Arvind Kejriwal in Chandigarh pic.twitter.com/H0cyF9ff0qAAP supremo and Delhi CM Arvind Kejriwal on Sunday said Chandigarh will get free water similar to the national capital, if the party is voted to power in the upcoming assembly polls. “These garbage dump mountains, like in Daddu Majra Colony, will be removed,” he was quoted as saying to a rally by ANI.Happy that people voted peacefully: Bengal CM Mamata on KMC pollsTMC chief and West Bengal chief minister Mamata Banerjee said that the voter turnout recorded till now for the Kolkata civic elections is over 50%, according to ANI. “I am happy people voted peacefully. Kolkata Police is carrying out its duties efficiently,” she was quoted as saying by ANI.PM Modi inaugurates multiple projects in Goa on state's liberation dayPrime Minister Narendra Modi inaugurates multiple projects in Goa on state's liberation day.Iran confirms its first case of Omicron Covid-19 variantIran has confirmed its first case of Omicron Covid-19 variant, state TV reported on Sunday. The country has vaccinated around 60% of its population of approximately 85 million citizens with both doses of Covid-19 vaccines, according to the Associated Press.SIT formed to probe Golden Temple sacrilege incidentA special investigation team (SIT) has been formed under the Amritsar DCP (law and order) to investigate the sacrilege incident at the Golden Temple. It will give its report in two days. Punjab deputy chief minister Sukhjinder Singh Randhawa, who heads the home department, took stock of the situation by meeting the police officials in Amritsar. Punjab chief minister Charanjit Singh Channi is also coming to visit the Golden Temple at 4 pm.3 injured in crude bomb blast in Kolkata during civic pollsAs many as three people were injured after a crude bomb exploded in Kolkata Municipal Corporation's (KMC) ward number 36 in north-eastern part of the city, police confirmed. One person has been arrested in the case.PM Modi attends Goa Liberation Day celebrations, pays tributesAs part of Goa Liberation Day celebrations, PM Narendra Modi attends Sail Parade and FlyPast in Panaji pic.twitter.com/ALeiWwtRBCPrime Minister Narendra Modi attends the Sail Parade and FlyPast in Goa's capital Panaji as part of the state's Liberation Day celebrations. He also paid floral tributes to the Martyrs' Memorial in the city, agencies reported.Anurag Thakur and Uttarakhand CM Dhami launch ‘Vijay Sankalp Yatra’ in KumaonUnion Minister Anurag Thakur and Uttarakhand Chief Minister Pushkar Singh Dhami launch 'Vijay Sankalp Yatra' in Bageshwar district, Kumaon #UttarakhandElections2022 pic.twitter.com/piMMgBY8G6Union minister Anurag Thakur and Uttarakhand chief minister Pushkar Singh Dhami on Sunday launched 'Vijay Sankalp Yatra' in Bageshwar district of Kumaon in the northern state, ANI reported.UK health minister says Omicron cases in England accounts for 60% of all new infections, reports ReutersBritain's health minister says Omicron cases in England accounts for 60% of all new infections, reports Reuters.More than 21,000 people displaced by floods in Malaysia: ReportMore than 21,000 people have been displaced from their homes due to flooding caused by torrential rains in Malaysia, state news agency Bernama said on Sunday.One injured by crude bomb during Kolkata civic polls; low turnout till afternoonA man sustained an injury in the leg when a crude bomb went off in the north-eastern part of Kolkata on Sunday morning during the Kolkata Municipal Corporation (KMC) elections, police said. Read More 'Tiny market share': Apple seeks dismissal of India apps market antitrust caseApple Inc has asked India's antitrust watchdog to throw out a case alleging abuse of market power in the apps market, saying it is too small a player in the South Asian country where Google is dominant, a filing seen by Reuters shows. Read More'Still 2.5 years for Lok Sabha': Shashi Tharoor hopeful of opposition unity  Congress leader Shashi Tharoor is hopeful of opposition unity against the NDA in the 2024 Lok Sabha election and believes that the murmurs in different voices will come together to defeat the BJP. Read MoreTwo political murders in under 12 hours shock KeralaTwo state-level leaders of the Social Democratic Party of India (SDPI) and the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) were killed in an apparent retaliatory attack in Alappuzha on Sunday, police said. According to the police, eleven people have been arrested in the BJP leader’s murder case. Some of them are suspected to be directly involved in the case. Read MoreIndia records 7,081 new Covid-19 cases, active caseload down by 652India on Sunday recorded 7,081 new Covid-19 cases, according to the Union ministry of health and family welfare. The active caseload was down by 652 and it currently stands at 83,913.Omicron looms large in Britain: Cases surge in 24 hours, London rings the alarmThe Omicron variant of the SARS-Cov-2 coronavirus is spreading at a remarkable pace in the United Kingdom (UK). According to British government data, a marked surge in cases was reported in a span of mere 24 hours. Read MoreTwo rockets hit Baghdad's Green Zone, where US embassy is located: Iraqi armyTwo Katyusha rockets hit Baghdad's fortified Green Zone, Iraq's state news agency reported early on Sunday citing security forces. One rocket was destroyed in the air by the C-RAM defense system and the other landed near the zone's festivals arena damaging two cars, the report added. There were no immediate reports of casualties. Read MorePM Modi to visit Goa today for its Liberation Day celebrationsPrime Minister Narendra Modi will visit Goa on Sunday to attend Goa Liberation Day celebrations at Dr Shyama Prasad Mukherjee Stadium in Goa's Taleigao at around 3 pmKolkata Municipal Corporation election today, TMC-BJP fight for 144 wardsWest Bengal is set to witness another high-stakes electoral battle on Sunday, months after the all-important assembly elections and the subsequent Bhabanipur bypolls earlier this year.Man killed over sacrilege in Golden Temple: PoliceA man was beaten to death by pilgrims at the Golden Temple in Amritsar on Saturday evening after he allegedly stepped inside the central enclosure of the sanctum sanctorum where the holy book Guru Granth Sahib is placed, picked up a diamond-encrusted sword and committed sacrilege, police said. Read MoreCEC was not invited to electoral reform meeting on Nov 16, says law ministryThe Union law ministry said on Saturday that the chief election commissioner (CEC) was not invited to attend a meeting on electoral reforms held on November 16 and the legislative department had, instead, asked the secretary of the poll watchdog or a representative for the event.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/breaking-news-19-december-2021-101639874513261.html
20-12-2021||India||Transforming the criminal justice system||Project Unlearn started by Tycia Foundation is about developing context based educational and life skills material which aims to bridge the gap between the existing literacy programs initiated inside the prison to improve education level among inmates.Eleena George, Prison Reformation Lead, co- founded ‘Project Unlearn’ with the vision to reduce Gender Based Violence. With great motivation she became a Second Chance fellow where she got the opportunity to work with Tihar prison inmates. She leads operations at Tihar Jail, manages teaching and training of Peer fellows inside the prison school. She is focussed on creating a contextual correctional educational kit with the support of the inmates to prevent crime against women by closely working with ‘at risk youth’. While on the other hand, Saanchi M, is Co-founder and CEO at TYCIA Foundation. She previously worked for institutions like Ambedkar University’s Centre for Early Childhood Education Department (New Delhi) and Room to Read India. She has also played a role of facilitator in social entrepreneurship & leadership programs like Jagriti Yatra, WeCan and Pravah’s Changelooms.Q.1 What is the vision behind Tycia Foundation?Saanchi M: TYCIA Foundation has been working in this domain since the year 2017. The initial years went by trying to understand the geography and identifying the existing gaps. Gradually as we started creating a team to work in this field we realized that it is important to identify more change-makers and leaders from various walks of life who are passionate about prison reformation and can bring a new lens of innovation to the system. The biggest issue we are working on is to overhaul the ill equipped prison and criminal justice ecosystem, why it needs structural change within and who will lead it. This led to the initiation of the Second Chance Fellowship, which aims to create a platform and opportunity for individuals who are passionate about working towards transforming the state of the criminal justice system from macro to micro-level. Many micro-enterprises have been formed as an outcome of the fellowship which envisions resolving at least one long pending prison system issues. Better life Prison School is a full day long operational school which includes functional literacy, wage/self-skill training, life skill training, drug de-addiction and healthcare support inside prison. Project Unlearn, a context-based education and life skills intervention for young incarcerated men which aims to end gender based violence and crime by intensive workshops and sessions inside prisons and communities. Kunji - a Prison Helpline-Facilitating ex-inmates over phone with help of a location-wise data of various NGOs and government institutions that are working on issues that ex-inmates face, like Drug De-addiction, Mental health, Housing/Food/Clothing, Employment, Conflict Resolution, Life-Skills, Legal-Aid, Education. Project Rihai - A crowdfunding platform to get people out on bail who have completed their sentence and do not have money to provide bail. It is only done for inmates who are recommended by prison staff on the account of reformed behaviour in their prison time and do not have any financial support from families.Q.2 What encourages you to work for this cause?Eleena George: I started my journey with the TYCIA foundation as an intern and later went on to pursue a year-long fellowship (Second chance fellowship) and realized that prison is often neglected geography which needs even more attention. I started to build interaction with incarcerated males especially booked under crime against women to understand their world view and create a better fitted solution. Upon a realization and completion of my fellowship I persevered to create a safe space on the topics such as sexual consent, toxic masculinity and other topics related to violence and crime against women that are usually not discussed in the prison premises became my motivation to pursue something which was challenging but crucial. It is given that the rampant increase in acts of crime and violence against women coupled with high recidivism rates in India highlights the need to sensitize boys and young men on gender-related issues, crimes, and violence. The peer leaders were identified inside the prison that not only helped in creating a contextual curriculum called Pehal kit but were also trained to become facilitators. They conducted workshops and sessions on such topics in order to sensitize and prevent fellow inmates from inducing violence and strengthen the voices of youth about inequalities, nurturing them into change agents to prevent gender-based violence and crimes. Being able to create a safe space among men with the support of peer leaders to openly discuss and address these social issues became my motivation to continue to work in this field.Q.3 Tell us about your experience working with these delinquent individuals?Eleena George: My experience of working with my students in the prison has definitely changed the way I view the reformation and correctional institutions. Interaction with prison officials and different stakeholders in a prison setting helped me view the criminal justice system from their perspective. Every day in the prison is new learning as the challenges of teaching inside are different from that of any mainstream school or any community outside. Since it’s been four years now I often end up meeting ex-inmates in public places. It is interesting to see ex-inmates who were part of our program during their stay in the prison now volunteering and interning with us. Being in touch with them and seeing them wanting to live a life away from crime is truly a motivation and reinforces the idea of reformation and behavioral change. Q.4 How have these prisoners helped with Tycia’s programmes?Saanchi M: The peer leaders are identified inside the prison who work closely with us in facilitating all the activities in the prison. It helps to bring forth their leadership skills and mark their journey as change makers in prison as well as their community. They had a huge role in designing contextual educational content to sensitize men on gender-based violence and crime and taking classes with teachers. Post their release they continued to partake in workshops and sessions which were organized by us. During the lockdown, they supported the team in COVID relief work like Distribution of ration kit, masks, oxygen cylinder, and concentrators. They supported and led the project on creating awareness about vaccination in several communities. Helping people to book their slots and helping them with commuting from their home to the vaccination centers. Ex-inmates also supported fellow inmates who were released during the lockdown to depopulate the prison with transportation and ration. Q.5 What activities do you engage in?Eleena George: I support designing, implementing and co-leading the prison reformation interventions with my colleagues Gauri and Tabish. Moreover, I am leading ‘Project Unlearn’ which is an offshoot from Second Chance Fellowship and have created educational content to sensitize boys and young men on gender-based violence and crime by training men on conducting workshops and sessions in the prison and communities. Its primary initiative aims to address negative gender-based socializations, harmful gender norms and rape culture in correctional institutions and at-risk communities by creating safe spaces for boys and young men to discuss and understand gender-based violence at a deeper level. Q.6 What are the future plans of the organisation?The future plans for the organization is-· To identify more change makers who are passionate and driven to work in the field of criminal justice system · To work in more prisons and create a second layer of change makers in the prison. · To work in more communities where crime rates are high and prevent men from inducing violence on women.· To support/incubate new ideas and interventions of social entrepreneurs wanting to work towards transforming the criminal justice system. Saanchi M||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/transforming-the-criminal-justice-system-101639562842136.html
