22-12-2021||India||HT This Day: Dec 23, 2000 - Lashkar men storm Army camp in Red Fort, 3 killed||HT Correspondent New Delhi- Even as a function of the Army's Seven Rajputana Rifles was on, Lashkar-e- Tayyeba militants stormed the Red Fort at 9.30 tonight (December 22) and opened fire with AK-47s, killing at least three soldiers. This is the first such strike in the national capital and agency sources say a two-member Lashkar fidyaeen (suicide squad) was involved.The attack comes two days after the Centre extended the Ramzan ceasefire in Jammu and Kashmir.Two members of the Rajputana Rifles were killed on the spot, while another was wounded and succumbed en route to hospital.The militants had switched off the lighting system inside the Mughal fort before launching the attack, apparently targeting the garrison inside.Lashkar is reported to have contacted the BBC and claimed responsibility for the attack.They also claimed that one of the militants was still inside the Fort. Army and police sources also did not rule out the possibility of militants holding out inside.The militants are supposed to have entered through the Saleem Gate of the Fort, outside which there are 400-500 slum dwellings. Police sources said the militants had carried out ambush at three separate places in the Fort.The attack was said to have been carried out near the residential quarters where hundreds of Armymen stay with their families. The Army has surrounded the Red Fort complex.Significantly, another function of the Rajputana Rifles was slated for tomorrow, which was to be attended by senior Army officials. Officials pointed out that both the Inter State Bus Terminus and the Old Delhi Railway Station are near the Red Fort and that it was possible that militants might have escaped from there.Several members of a family including women and children were trapped inside the Red Fort when the shootout occurred. They, however, reportedly escaped unhurt.There are two entry posts to the Red Fort, the Lahori Gate Khas and the Lahori Gate. There are at least four armed security guards on duty always at both these entry points.What is surprising is that the armed militants apparently managed to walk up to the cantonment area inside the Fort, where the function was going on, without being challenged.Clearly, the militant attack at the heavily-guarded Red Fort indicates a grave security lapse. The Red Fort is guarded by the 7th battalion of the Rajputana Rifles, the military police and Army headquarters post unit.The military intelligence was clueless about the attack and the shootout caught them napping.However, military intelligence officials are not ruling out the possibility of it being an insider's job.This evening's attack comes in the wake of several suicide attacks carried out recently by the mercenaries of the Lashkar on Army camps in the Kashmir valley.The Army cordoned off a huge area around the fort and, assisted by anti-terrorism squad personnel, launched combing operations in the entire walled city.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/ht-this-day-dec-23-2000-lashkar-men-storm-army-camp-in-red-fort-3-killed-101640197362700.html
22-12-2021||India||To contain Covid-19, PETA appeals to Tamil Nadu govt to cancel Jallikattu||The People for Ethical Treatment of Animals (PETA) has appealed to the Tamil Nadu government not to conduct Jallikattu (a bull-taming sport) in view of Covid-19 by sending a petition written by 80 doctors from across the country to chief minister M K Stalin and health minister M Subramanian. “Non-essential events such as Jallikattu have no place in a country battling a deadly contagious virus,” said PETA India CEO Manilal Valliyate in a statement. “PETA India is calling on officials to heed the professional opinions of these doctors and call off Jallikattu events to protect bulls from cruelty and the public from a life-threatening disease.”According to PETA, at least 22 bulls and 69 humans have reportedly died, while more than 4,696 humans have been injured since the Tamil Nadu government legalised Jallikattu in 2017. “PETA India has documented extreme cruelty to bulls during these events, which are attended by up to thousands of people,” the animal rights organisation said. “Video footage of 2021 events show masses of unmasked people in close proximity, conditions ripe for the spread of Covid-19, particularly the easily transmissible Omicron variant.”The letter shared by PETA is signed by doctors from across the country. “Prohibiting non-essential activities such as Jallikattu events, which lead to unnecessary mass gatherings, is essential to prevent the rapid spread of Covid-19 and to protect public health as well as to ease the pressure on health-care professionals,” said Dr Deepshikha Chandravanshi, one of the doctors who signed the letter.Last year too, PETA had appealed to the Tamil Nadu government to ban the event but the state allowed it by imposing several Covid-19 restrictions such as a negative RT-PCR test. Jallikattu is conducted during the Pongal festival in January in Tamil Nadu predominantly in Madurai amid huge fanfare and attendees usually include political leaders cutting across parties.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/to-contain-covid-19-peta-appeals-to-tamil-nadu-govt-to-cancel-jallikattu-101640196588276.html
22-12-2021||India||In Bengal BJP rejig, veterans dropped, former TMC leaders make it||The West Bengal unit of the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) announced its new state committee on Wednesday evening, replacing several veterans and triggering rumblings in the organisation by retaining many who came from the Trinamool Congress (TMC).  The party announced the names of 11 new vice-presidents, five general secretaries and 12 secretaries alongside seven new morcha (front) presidents and those who will head departments such as media, information technology and social media. New spokespersons and television show panelists were also appointed. Some among the latter had been seen criticizing the BJP in the past.     Although infighting was witnessed in several district units in recent years because of the importance given to ex-TMC leaders and workers, BJP veterans such as Pratap Banerjee, Biswapriyo Roy Chowdhury, Union minister of state Dr Subhas Sarkar, Raj Kamal Pathak, Debasish Mitra, Ritesh Tiwari, Raju Banerjee and Jay Prakash Majumdar were dropped from the panel of vice-presidents. Majumdar was made a spokesperson.    Pathak was among the most vocal critics of the party’s policies while Roy Chowdhury was a known hardliner. Another hardliner, general secretary Sayantan Basu, was dropped as well.   Coming a day after the BJP was trounced in the Kolkata municipal polls and six months after the saffron camp secured only 77 of the state’s 294 assembly seats against the TMC’s 213, the strategic changes were made by state leaders in consultation with the central leadership in Delhi, said senior BJP leaders who did not want to be identified.  “There was no visible effort to project people who have worked with the Rashtriya Swayamsevak Sangh (RSS), which used to be the old practice, and keep out former TMC leaders,” a leader said.  Bengal’s projected population in 2021 stands at 101.9 million. During   the 2011 census, Christians comprised only 0.72% of the population against 70.54% Hindus and 27.01% Muslims.  In the assembly polls, the BJP fielded nine Muslim candidates but none could win. There was no Christian in the fray. However, the sole Buddhist candidate, Bishal Lama, won the Kalchini seat in north Bengal’s Alipurduar district.  In north Bengal’s eight districts -- where members of the scheduled caste and scheduled tribe have a sizeable population - the BJP captured 30 of the 54 assembly seats six months ago. The TMC, on the other hand, bagged most of the seats in south Bengal where Muslims live in larger numbers.  In the 2019 Lok Sabha polls, too, the BJP bagged 18 of the state’s 42 seats, creating a record. In north Bengal, it secured seven of the eight seats.       On Wednesday, several members of the SC and ST communities made it to the upper tiers but Ali Hossain, who was state minority morcha president, was replaced by Charles Nandi, a former journalist and member of the Christian community who used to handle the social media page of former state president Dilip Ghosh.     Legislator Joyel Murmu was made the ST Morcha president while Sudip Das was appointed head of the SC morcha.  The selections were made after discussions with BJP national president J P Nadda and other central leaders. Though the talks were carried out by BJP state president Sukanta Majumdar and general secretary (organisation) Amitava Chakravorty, some state leaders had a say in the decision-making process, a party old-timer from Bengal said.    The recent poll results also showed that BJP did not get any noticeable support from women and young voters in south Bengal.  Saumitra Khan, a two-time Lok Sabha member from Bankura district who left the TMC and became the yuva morcha (youth front) president was replaced on Wednesday by Indranil Khan, a Kolkata-based oncologist who unsuccessfully contested the assembly polls.  Saumitra Khan, whose strong differences with Dilip Ghosh became public several times in recent months, was made a state vice-president.    Tanuja Chakraborty replaced fashion designer-turned politician Agnimitra Paul as the mahila morcha (women’s front) president. Paul, who won the Asansol South assembly seat in the March-April polls, was made a general secretary along with Lok Sabha member Locket Chatterjee    No BJP leader was willing to comment on record on the reshuffle.  Kolkata-based political science professor Udayan Bandopadhyay said, “It appears from the list that former TMC minister Suvendu Adhikri, who is now leader of the opposition in the assembly, will have no problem working with the new committee members.”  Adhikari joined the BJP in December last year.    
22-12-2021||India||Initial probe suggests Instagram accounts of Priyanka's children weren't hacked: Report||A day after Congress leader Priyanka Gandhi Vadra said her children’s Instagram accounts were hacked, sources in the Union ministry of electronics and information technology said initial investigation found there was no compromise.An ANI report quoting ministry sources said Instagram accounts of the Congress general secretary’s children were not compromised as alleged by her.Initial investigation shows that (Instagram) accounts of Congress leader Priyanka Gandhi Vadra's children not compromised: Ministry of Electronics & IT sources She has alleged that the government is hacking Instagram accounts of her children. pic.twitter.com/5On24kuCf6Earlier in the day, a ministry said it took cognisance of Vadra’s allegations against the government.Speaking to reporters about allegations of phone tapping of Opposition leaders by the government, Vadra said on Tuesday, “Leave phone tapping… Instagram accounts of my children have also been hacked.” “Does the government have no other work?" she added.The Congress leader made the allegation two days after Samajwadi Party president Akhilesh Yadav accused Uttar Pradesh chief minister Yogi Adityanath of getting his telephones tapped and listening to the recordings of his conversations every evening.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/initial-probe-reveals-instagram-accounts-of-priyanka-s-children-weren-t-hacked-101640193238108.html
22-12-2021||India||Harish Rawat’s tweets meant to ensure his clout within Congress, says BJP leader||Former Uttarakhand chief minister Tirath Singh Rawat said Congress leader Harish Rawat's cryptic messages that seemed to be targeting the party’s top bosses were meant to “ensure his clout” in the grand old party and that the former will “not turn his back” on the upcoming Assembly polls.The Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) leader said, “Harish Rawat is not going to take any rest. I think he is doing this to ensure his clout in the party. He will not turn his back on elections because they (polls) are a priority for him.”Stating that Rawat is known for indulging in “pressure politics", the BJP leader said everyone remains in the dark about his actions. “People are aware of his past,” he was quoted as saying by news agency ANI.He also spoke about the Congress veteran’s seniority, saying his latest statements show “his pain towards the party”. “I hope he will live up to the feelings he expressed today,” he added.Further referring to the infighting in the Punjab Congress, which led to Amarinder Singh resigning as the chief minister of the state and leaving the party, Tirath Singh Rawat said the hill leader may have “learned something” from the situation.Also Read | You reap what you sow…: Amarinder Singh has a message for Harish RawatHe said the Congress infighting in Uttarakhand will only benefit the BJP in the upcoming assembly elections. “The Congress has always been scattered…I don't think it will be easy for Congress to fight the elections like this,” he added.The BJP leader said Harish Rawat's statements show that there is something happening inside the Congress party with every member trying to pull each other down.Earlier in the day, the senior Congress leader took to Twitter to post several messages in Hindi, indicating his unhappiness with the party leadership in the state. He also talked about feeling his “hands and feet” being tied up and that he thought of taking rest.Uttarakhand assembly elections are scheduled next year. In the 2017 polls, BJP won 57 seats, Congress bagged 11, while two seats were won by other candidates.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/harish-rawat-s-tweets-meant-to-ensure-his-clout-within-congress-says-bjp-leader-101640185908362.html
22-12-2021||India||DRDO's 58% construction work not completed on time between 2014-19: CAG report||Nearly 58 per cent of the total construction work in the Defence Research and Development Organisation (DRDO) was not completed within the original schedule between 2014 and 2019, the Comptroller and Auditor General (CAG) of India said in a report.According to news agency PTI, the CAG report that was tabled in Parliament on Tuesday said the percentage of work finished within the original schedule dipped from 47.09 per cent in 2016-2017 to 36.53 per cent in 2018-2019.In the report, the CAG further said that as many as 38 scientists of the DRDO were posted in the construction department between 2014 and 2019, without the approval of the defence ministry. Also, there was a dearth of a total of 180 scientists in the Defence Research and Development Scientists (DRDS) cadre between the same timeline.The national auditor said the DRDO does not have the standard to review the requirement of guest houses (GH) similar to that of the defence services in which the construction of officers' mess is taken up on the basis of the authorised strength of officers at a certain unit."Audit observed that occupancy in 53 (41.40 per cent) out of 128 GHs under the jurisdiction of DRDO, was less than 20 per cent during the period from 2014-15 to 2018-19," the PTI quoted the report.The CAG further found that two additional guest houses were constructed at one of its stations, which already had three of the houses with a yearly occupancy between 11 to 42 per cent only.The report came in the wake of the DRDO successfully test-firing a number of missiles, including the surface-to-surface guided, short-range Pralay ballistic missile off the Odisha coast on Wednesday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/drdos-58-construction-work-not-completed-on-time-between-2014-19-cag-report-101640179797499.html
22-12-2021||India||Lookout notice against Akali leader Majithia, not allowed to leave India||The Union Home Ministry has issued a lookout circular against former Punjab minister and senior Akali Dal leader Bikram Singh Majithia who was booked under the anti-drug trafficking NDPS Act by the state police.The lookout circular, which prevents a person from leaving the country, was issued on the request of the Punjab police.The Bureau of Immigration under the Home Ministry sent the copy of the notice to Punjab's Additional Director General of Police (Counter Intelligence), Internal Security in Mohali."This LOC shall remain in force until and unless a deletion request is received by BOI from the originator itself,” it read.The state police have been looking for the Shiromani Akali Dal leader to arrest him.On Monday, Majithia, 46, was booked under the Narcotic Drugs and Psychotropic Substances Act on the basis of a 2018 status report of probe into a drug racket.The report was filed by the anti-drug special task force (STF) chief Harpreet Singh Sidhu with the Punjab and Haryana High Court that year.The Congress government's move ahead of the assembly elections early next year has provoked accusations of “political vendetta” by the Akali Dal.Punjab Congress chief Navjot Singh Sidhu had been urging action by the Charanjit Singh Channi government against Majithia, who is the brother-in-law of SAD chief Sukhbir Singh Badal and brother of former Union minister Harsimrat Kaur Badal.Majithia had earlier denied all charges against him.The 49-page FIR was registered by the state Crime Branch at its Mohali police station.The NDPS sections mentioned in the FIR include 25 (punishment for allowing one's premises for the commission of an offence), 27A (punishment for financing illicit traffic and harbouring offenders) and 29 (punishment for abetting or plotting an offence).The FIR noted that the legal opinion of Punjab's advocate general too was taken before registering it.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/lookout-notice-against-akali-leader-majithia-not-allowed-to-leave-india-101640184876623.html
22-12-2021||India||News updates from HT: Captain's swipe at Harish Rawat after ‘dilemma’ tweet, and all the latest news||Here are today’s top news, analysis, and opinion. Know all about the latest news and other news updates from Hindustan Times.You reap what you sow…: Amarinder Singh has a message for Harish RawatVeteran Punjab politician Amarinder Singh on Wednesday took a dig at his former colleague in the Congress Harish Rawat with the old proverb ‘you reap what you sow’. Read more…Pakistan Shocker: Hindu woman abducted in broad daylightAn alleged video of a Hindu girl abducted in broad daylight in Pakistan has gone viral. Video shared by BJP Leader Manjinder Singh Sirsa on Twitter shows a woman being dragged by a few men. Video shows the woman screaming for help but no one comes forward to help her. Watch video hereExplainer: Karnataka anti-conversion law: The legality of other such lawsThe Basavaraj Bommai government in Karnataka tabled the controversial anti-conversion bill in the legislative assembly on Tuesday amidst protests by the opposition. The proposed legislation, called the Karnataka Protection of Right to Freedom of Religion Bill, 2021, was approved by the state cabinet on Monday. Read more…China’s Xi hails Hong Kong vote in meeting with Carrie LamChina’s President Xi Jinping on Wednesday told Hong Kong leader Carrie Lam that the city is developing in the right direction and heaped praise on her work in the past year, two days after an election installed Beijing’s loyalists in the financial hub’s legislature amid a low turnout. Read more…PCB chairman Ramiz Raja reacts to Pakistan spinner Yasir Shah's alleged role in rape of minorPakistan cricket was hit with another controversy after an FIR was lodged against senior spinner Yasir Shah, who has been accused of aiding the rape of a minor girl. Read more…Hollywood meets Bollywood in hilarious, seamlessly edited Netflix video; Nawaz tells Gal Gadot 'mereko murga chaiye'Netflix's new video – Netflix India Playback 2021 – has digitally helped Indian stars such as Nawazuddin Siddiqui, Sonu Sood, Shehnaaz Gill and more to cross paths with international stars. Read more…Neha Kakkar's sultry angelic look in champagne organza corset, pants wows DubaiGoing bold and giving a sensual twist to the fashion of wearing inner wear as outer wear, Bollywood singer Neha Kakkar paired a sexy organza corset with white pants and fashionistas can’t keep calm while they take style cues to slay the '90s-inspired boudoir chic look on their next sultry outing. Brb! We are currently swooning over Neha as she turns up the heat at Dubai Expo 2020 with her sizzling fashion in the champagne coloured strapless sweetheart corset and white pants. Read more…||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/news-updates-from-ht-captain-s-swipe-at-harish-rawat-after-dilemma-tweet-and-all-the-latest-news-101640185571406.html
22-12-2021||India||Goa polls: TMC says Kejriwal’s ‘not in race’ comments show political immaturity||The Trinamool Congress on Wednesday said Delhi chief minister Arvind Kejriwal showed political immaturity as well as ‘desperation’ when he said that the Mamata Banerjee-led party is not in contention in the upcoming elections in Goa.Earlier in the day, the Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) national convener declined to attach much importance to the TMC, which is seeking to expand its base in the coastal state, and said that ‘any party cannot win elections on the basis of posters’ without naming anyone.He said there are more than 1,300 political parties and he cannot name every single one of them.It was when he was asked about a pre-poll alliance between the AAP and TMC, Kejriwal said he said the latter is “not in the race”. “There are 1,350 parties in the country, should I start mentioning everyone,” he said when questioned regarding his silence regarding the presence of the regional party.“We firmly believe in working for people and standing beside them through thick and thin. Those indulging in election forecasting and vote share predictions are simply reflecting their political immaturity and desperation. Let the people of Goa decide who should be taken seriously,” the TMC tweeted.While both the parties share cordial ties at the national level, they are vying to take the lead to be the prime opposition to the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) ahead of the polls.Senior TMC leader and state general secretary Kunal Ghosh said Kejriwal’s comments are borne out of “local compulsion”. “We don't attach much importance to it,” he said. The TMC is contesting all the assembly seats of the Goa polls. The coastal state will witness a multi-party contest as TMC, AAP and the Congress try to wrest power from the BJP. The elections will be held next year.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/goa-polls-tmc-says-kejriwal-s-not-in-race-comments-show-political-immaturity-101640186221917.html
22-12-2021||India||Delhi cold wave: Experts say climate change is making extreme weather routine||New Delhi: After starting off on a relatively warm note, over the last week, all of north India, has been in the grip of a cold wave, with many locations recording sub-zero temperatures. Experts said that these extreme weather recordings have become more common in winters over the last few years and the role of climate change in this trend cannot be ignored.
22-12-2021||India||You reap what you sow…: Amarinder Singh has a message for Harish Rawat||Veteran Punjab politician Amarinder Singh on Wednesday took a dig at his former colleague in the Congress Harish Rawat with the old proverb ‘you reap what you sow’.One of the key managers of the Congress in-charge of resolving the crisis in the party’s Punjab unit in vain that finally led to Singh’s quitting the grand old party and the chief minister’s post in the poll-bound state, Rawat created a flutter in political circles earlier in the day with a series of cryptic tweets alleging non-cooperation from his organisation and noting he sometimes feels it is time for him to rest.Singh, who has now formed his own party that is set to tie-up with the BJP for the upcoming polls, wished Rawat, a former chief of Uttarakhand, the best for his future endeavours, if there were any.You reap what you sow! All the best for your future endeavours (if there are any) @harishrawatcmuk ji. https://t.co/6QfFkVt8ZO“You reap what you sow! All the best for your future endeavours (if there are any) harishrawat ji,” the former Army veteran wrote on Twitter.Uttarakhand is set to go to assembly polls early next year and the Congress is trying to return to power in the hill state.While Rawat loyalists have been saying that the 2022 election is being fought under his leadership, others have said it will be contested under a collective leadership.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/you-reap-what-you-sow-amarinder-singh-has-a-message-for-harish-rawat-101640184570092.html
22-12-2021||India||Night temperatures rise in parts of Rajasthan as cold wave conditions ease||Cold conditions abated in most areas of Rajasthan on Wednesday with the night temperature increasing by a few notches.Fatehpur in Sikar continued to be the coldest place in the state with a minimum temperature of 2.6 degrees celsius, followed by Karauli where the night temperature on Tuesday night was 3.3 degrees, according to the weather department.Churu, Sikar, Chittorgarh and Sangariya in Hanumangarh recorded a minimum of 3.5, 4.7, 5.2 and 5.3 degrees Celsius, respectively. The night temperature at other places in the state was above six degrees Celsius.Weather conditions will remain the same during the next 24 hours, the weather department has said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/night-temperatures-rise-in-parts-of-rajasthan-as-cold-wave-conditions-ease-101640183481952.html
22-12-2021||India||Kerala logs nine fresh Omicron cases, state tally climbs to 24||Nine more Omicron cases were detected in Kerala on Wednesday taking the total number of cases to 24, the state health ministry said. Out of nine, four people came from Tanzania, 2 from Nigeria and one each from Ghana, Ireland and UK, it said adding the condition of all the patients was stable. Four of them tested positive on their arrival and five others a week after their arrival. All their contacts were traced and quarantined, health ministry officials said. State health Minister Veena George said there was no need of any panic but asked people to ensure Covid-appropriate behaviour. As Christmas and New Year celebrations are round the corner the government has asked people to maintain utmost vigil. After reporting less than 3,000 Covid-19 cases in the last three days the state on Wednesday reported 3,205 new infections after 56,388 samples were tested. It also reported 36 new deaths and added 347 backlog deaths taking total fatalities to 45,538. The state has an active caseload of 27,842. More than 10,000 deaths, and unreported cases between March and June 2021, were added to the list of fatalities in the last three months as per the directive of the Supreme Court.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/kerala-logs-nine-fresh-omicron-cases-state-tally-climbs-to-24-101640183223498.html
22-12-2021||India||29 students of West Bengal school test positive for Covid-19||At least 29 students of a school in West Bengal’s Nadia district have tested positive for Covid-19.People familiar with the developments said the infected students are from classes 9 and 10 of Jawahar Navodaya Vidyalaya in Kalyani.According to a PTI report, the school authorities have asked the ailing students’ parents to take them home. The infected students have, so far, shown symptoms like cough and cold. The health authorities are now testing other students of the school for the viral disease.The West Bengal government had reopened physical schools for students of classes 9 to 12 in November following a year-long closure due to the pandemic.Cases of school-going children being affected by Covid-19 have led to concerns among health experts in the wake of the spread of the highly transmissible Omicron variant. Last week, 18 students from a school in the Ghansoli area of Navi Mumbai tested positive for the virus leading to shutting down of the school.Meanwhile, the Omicron variant has so far infected more than 200 people in the country. The new strain, first detected in South Africa last month, is responsible for most of the new cases being reported across Europe and has also led to imposition of strict restrictions ahead of Christmas Day and New Year’s Eve.The variant also has led to speculations over the need to administer booster shots in India and elsewhere. It has also raised concerns over the vaccination of children and teenagers.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/29-students-of-west-bengal-school-test-positive-for-covid19-101640180775465.html
22-12-2021||India||Kerala overtakes Karnataka, Rajasthan in Omicron tally with 9 new cases||Kerala on Wednesday reported nine fresh cases of the Omicron variant of coronavirus, taking the state's tally to 24, the joint third-highest with Telangana. Kerala health minister Veena George informed that six persons who arrived in Ernakulam from foreign countries were found infected with the new variant of concern, reported news agency ANI. The other three cases were detected after the international travellers arrived at Thiruvananthapuram.In Ernakulam, two of the Omicron cases had travelled from the United Kingdom while a woman and a boy had arrived from Tanzania. The remaining two travellers, both female, arrived from Ghana and Ireland. In Thiruvananthapuram, a married couple and a woman had travelled from Nigeria, the health minister said.The new cases of Omicron in Kerala, which is now only behind Delhi and Maharashtra, has taken the cumulative tally of the variant of concern to 227. Delhi has recorded 57 Omicron cases, followed by Maharashtra (54), Telangana (24), Kerala (24), Rajasthan (22), Karnataka (19) and Gujarat (14). The Union territory of Jammu and Kashmir has reported three Omicron cases, while Odisha, Andhra Pradesh and Uttar Pradesh have two cases each. Chandigarh, Ladakh, Andhra Pradesh, and Tamil Nadu have each reported one Omicron case.With a rise in Omicron cases, states and UTs have started announcing fresh restrictions to contain the spread of the highly contagious virus variant, which has caused a spike in infections in South Africa and Britain. On Wednesday, Delhi ordered a ban on all sorts of gatherings for Christmas and New Year celebrations.Maharastra has, meanwhile, issued prohibitory orders under Section 144 of the Code of Criminal Procedure (CrPC). It has limited the entry to shops and public transport for fully vaccinated individuals.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/kerala-overtakes-karnataka-rajasthan-in-omicron-tally-with-9-new-cases-101640179224220.html
22-12-2021||India||3 killed, 19 injured in different road accidents in MP||Three persons were killed and 19 others injured in two separate road accidents in Madhya Pradesh's Panna and Barwani districts on Wednesday, police said. In Panna district, a passenger bus overturned after one of its tyres burst near Rekra village under the limits of Simaria police station, about 70 km from the Panna district headquarter, this morning. "A 17-year-old boy was killed and 18 others injured, one of them seriously, in the accident," Superintendent of Police Dharmraj Meena told reporters. He said the passenger bus was coming from Indore and headed to Rewa. The SP said police reached the spot of the accident immediately and rescued the people. Some of the rescued passengers were given medical aid at the Amanganj Health Centre and others were sent to the district hospital, he said. In another road accident, two motorcycle riders died and another injured in the Barwani district, after being hit by a bus coming from the opposite side at around 10 AM, said Julwania police station incharge Tara Mandloi. All three were students and going to the ITI institute in Pati, she said. The bus driver fled the spot after leaving the vehicle behind. A case has been registered.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/3-killed-and-19-injured-in-different-road-accidents-madhya-pradesh-101640179328800.html
22-12-2021||India||Accused of stealing by cop, 8-yr-old moves Kerala court; gets relief of ₹1.5 lakh||In a setback to the state government the Kerala High Court on Wednesday ordered a compensation of ₹1.50 lakh to a minor girl and her father who were accused by a woman police officer of stealing her mobile phone. The single judge bench of Justice Devan Ramachandran also imposed ₹25,000 as the cost of the legal expenses and directed the government to take disciplinary action against the police officer. The petitioners, an 8-year-old girl and her father, had moved the court two months ago seeking compensation of ₹50 lakh from the government for humiliating them in public in Attingal (Thiruvananthapuram) on August 27. “We cannot let our daughters grow up in anger; immediate remedial steps should be taken. No one can dispute her Fundamental Right under Article 21 to lead a dignified life,” the judge observed while delivering the verdict. Earlier the state government had opposed their plea and insisted that there was no need to pay any compensation to them. The court also recorded that it expected the State to rise in defence of the petitioner since she was ‘its daughter’ as well. It expressed its disappointment at the refusal of the Kerala government to acknowledge the trauma she had gone through and ordered relief for her. The court also said disciplinary action should be taken against the officer. The incident occurred on August 27. The little girl along with her father had gone to see a gigantic cargo being shifted by road to Vikram Sarabhai Research Centre in the state capital. The pink police was part of the police deployment to control the public. When the pink police officer misplaced her mobile phone she accused the little girl and her father, who were standing near the police vehicle, of stealing it. Both were questioned in public by the officer and the girl broke down while she was being frisked. But a few minutes later, the phone was recovered from the police jeep and the police team left the scene immediately without tendering an apology to the petrified girl. Later the video of the police officer questioning the duo went viral. After the video went viral the police officer was transferred and asked to undergo a short stint of behavioural training. Later both moved court seeking compensation. Though the police officer tendered an apology both the girl and her father refused to accept it. Earlier while hearing the petition, the court asked the state government what it proposes to do to assuage feelings of an 8-year-old girl and her father who were accused of theft by a woman police officer in public so as to ensure her faith in humanity and police. The court made many such observations and even pulled up the state police chief for trying to defend a fellow officer.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/accused-of-stealing-by-cop-8-yr-old-moves-kerala-court-gets-relief-of-rs-1-5-lakh-101640180867510.html
22-12-2021||India||As Omicron raises alarm, states impose curbs ahead of festive week: Check details here||A number of states and Union territories across the country have started imposing restrictions ahead of the festive week in the wake of a rise in cases of the highly contagious Omicron variant of the coronavirus disease (Covid-19).According to the latest official data, 223 Omicron cases have so far been reported in India with Delhi being the top contributor. The overall active Covid-19 caseload stood at 78,190.The Centre has now asked state authorities to impose restrictions if there is a 10 per cent rise in weekly cases or if 40 per cent ICU beds are found occupied. Union health secretary Rajesh Bhushan said, "Keeping in mind the higher transmissibility of Omicron, states/UTs can take containment measures and restrictions even before these thresholds are reached.”Here’s what some of the states are doing to curb the spread of the virus:DelhiWith the national capital leading the Omicron chart at 57, the Delhi Disaster Management Authority (DDMA) extended Covid-19 restrictions till December 31 and banned social and cultural gatherings during Christmas and New Year. There is also a 50 per cent cap on occupancy in restaurant and pub capacity. Banquet hall meetings, weddings and conferences will also follow similar rules.Also Read | Delhi bans Christmas, New Year gatherings as Omicron cases riseMaharashtraMaharashtra accounts for 54 of the 223 Omicron cases. The state too has issued prohibitory orders under Section 144 of the Code of Criminal Procedure (CrPC) from December 16-31.Only fully vaccinated people are permitted to enter shops or public transport. Commercial premise owners would require permission from their ward officers for a gathering of more than 200 people. Additionally, seating capacity for indoor areas has been restricted to 50 per cent, while it is 25 per cent for outdoor areas.Also read | Maharashtra govt may shut schools if Omicron cases rise, says education ministerKarnatakaKarnataka has reported 19 cases of the highly transmissible Covid variant. The state has banned all public gatherings, including ones on Bengaluru’s MG Road and Brigade Road, during New Year Eve. “There will not be any public celebration and special events in any part of the state," chief minister Basavaraj Bommai has said.Clubs and restaurants are permitted to have patrons till 50 per cent of their capacity, but no DJs or special New Year's parties are allowed. All staff are required to be fully vaccinated with a negative RT-PCR test.GujaratGujarat has so far reported 11 Omicron cases. The government has extended the night curfew from 1am-5am till December 31. Gyms and restaurants can operate at 75 per cent capacity, while cinema halls can have full occupancy.West BengalAccording to the latest orders issued by the West Bengal government, restrictions on Christmas and New Year will be loosened due to a lower count of the highly contagious variant.Their ongoing restrictions on movement from 11pm-5am will continue till January 15, except for Christmas and New Year’s Day.Uttar PradeshThe authorities in UP have invoked Section 144 under CrPC till December 31.Also read | After Omicron's arrival, Delhi reports biggest daily rise in infections in 6 monthsOther statesRajasthan and Telangana have reported 18 and 24 positive cases of Omicron, respectively. However, no specific curbs have so far been announced regarding the December-end festive week.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/as-omicron-raises-alarm-states-impose-curbs-ahead-of-festive-week-check-details-here-101640177547014.html
22-12-2021||India||Terrorists shoot civilian dead in Srinagar, cop dies after attack in Anantnag||Terrorists shot dead a civilian in the old city area of Srinagar in Jammu and Kashmir on Wednesday. In a separate incident a police officer died after terrorists fired indiscriminately and critically injured him at a hospital in the Bijbehara area of Anantnag district. He succumbed to his injuries at the hospital. The deceased civilian was identified as Rouf Ahmad of Nawakadal, while the assistant sub-inspector who was shot at in the sub-district hospital in Bijbehara was Mohammad Ashraf.#Anantnag #TerrorIncidentUpdate: Injured ASI Mohd Ashraf #succumbed to his injuries & attained #martyrdom. We stand by his family at this critical juncture. #RIP #BraveHeart https://t.co/bjPlCiU7SkThe Kashmir Zone Police said Ashraf had been shifted to Srinagar-based hospital for treatment and the area was cordoned off.Taking to Twitter, police said, “Terrorists fired indiscriminately and critically injured a police personnel, ASI Mohd Ashraf of PS Bijbehara, #Anantnag.”They further said Ahmad was rushed to Shri Maharaja Hari Singh (SMHS) hospital where he was declared dead. An investigation was underway.This is a developing story. Further details awaited. (With inputs from bureau)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/terrorists-shoot-civilian-dead-in-j-k-s-srinagar-cop-attacked-in-hospital-101640177766487.html
22-12-2021||India||Covid: Haryana to allow entry of only fully jabbed in public places from Jan 1||Haryana health minister Anil Vij said on Wednesday those who have not received both their vaccines against the coronavirus will not be allowed in public places from January 1, 2022.He said the ban would be applicable in places like marriage halls, hotels, banks, government offices and buses. “This is to protect ourselves from Omicron and the third wave of Covid-19,” the minister said.From 1 Jan'22, the people who have not taken both doses will not be allowed to enter marriage halls, hotels, restaurants, offices, banks, or any other public places. This is to protect ourselves from Omicron and the third wave of Covid: Haryana Health Minister Anil Vij pic.twitter.com/6xHyO7OqRxEarlier, Vij said that while there is no report of any case of the highly transmissible Omicron variant of Covid-19 in Haryana, the state government is ready to deal with any exigency. He added 3,11,86,292 vaccine doses have been administered in the state till December 19.“The state government is geared up to combat the spread of Omicron variant and also to deal with any surge in the number of Covid-19 cases,” he was quoted as saying by news agency ANI.According to last available data, 43 fresh cases of the virus were reported in Haryana on Tuesday, taking the state’s Covid-19 tally to 7,72,271. The death toll due to the viral disease has gone up to 10,062 with one more fatality.Meanwhile, officials in Gurugram said the satellite city has achieved 100 per cent coverage of both doses of the vaccine, thereby becoming the first district in Haryana to accomplish the feat.(With inputs from bureau and agencies)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/covid-haryana-to-allow-entry-of-only-fully-jabbed-in-public-places-from-jan-1-101640172075891.html
22-12-2021||India||Former BJP MLA joins Congress, party not the same after Parrikar, he says||Two-time BJP MLA and party’s representative from Vasco da Gama, Carlos Almeida joined the Congress on Wednesday along with several supporters claiming that the BJP is no longer the party that it was under former Goa Chief Minister Manohar Parrikar. Almeida, who was first elected in 2012 on a BJP ticket, accused the party of shunning him claiming that it was unfit to continue in public life while simultaneously promoting people of dubious character in the party. Almeida is the seventh MLA in recent days to resign as a member of the Goa Legislative Assembly bringing the strength of the 40-member house down to 33. With this, 23 of the 40 legislators (53%) elected in 2017 find themselves in a different party from the one they were elected in back in 2017. That number can rise further with several others including some from the BJP reported to be considering walking away from the party in the hope of better prospects elsewhere. Almeida is the second BJP MLA to quit the party after Alina Saldanha put in her papers and subsequently joined the Aam Aadmi Party claiming that the party was working against the interests of the people. “The party is not the same as it was during the days of Manohar Parrikar. They have tried to backstab me and blame me for their failures. But the people have stood firmly behind me and have urged me to take this step,” Almeida said after being welcomed into the party by AICC in charge Dinesh Gundu Rao. Almeida’s entry is a shot in the arm for the Congress which has recently lost MLAs to the Trinamool Congress and the Bharatiya Janata Party.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/former-bjp-mla-joins-congress-party-not-the-same-after-parrikar-he-says-101640176066760.html
22-12-2021||India||BH series registration available on voluntary basis, MoRTH tells Parliament||The Union ministry of road transport and highways said that it has introduced a new registration mark for new vehicles named Bharat (BH) series. The road transport ministry in Parliament said that any personal vehicle with this registration will not require a new registration when the vehicle is shifted from one state or Union Territory to another.The ministry also said that it will be available on a voluntary basis to defence personnel, central and state government employees, employees of state and Central government-run PSUs and private sector companies and organisations which have their offices in 4 or more states.A vehicle, registered under the BH series in 2021, will have a registration number that would read ‘21 BH 0000 AA’.Indian citizens are required to re-register their vehicles if they drive to another state and the new Bharat series registration is beneficial for those who travel frequently and also does away with the hassle of transferring vehicle registration certificates from one state to another.For vehicles that are registered under the Bharat (BH) series, the road tax must be paid only for two years. After the completion of two years, the vehicle owner can pay the respective tax as per the state’s respective policy.Diesel vehicles will be charged a 2% higher registration fees if they choose to get their registration under the BH series while electronic vehicles will have to pay 2% lower registration fees.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/bh-series-registration-available-on-voluntary-basis-morth-tells-parliament-101640174394388.html
22-12-2021||India||Cong slams govt for disallowing discussions during Parliament’s winter session||NEW DELHI: The Congress hit out at the Union government for disallowing discussions on issues such as the revoked farm laws and other bills as the Parliament’s winter session concluded on Wednesday. The party accused the Centre of purposely suspending vocal MPs.“We came prepared to raise numerous issues in the Parliament, but the day the session began the Centre suspended our 12 opinionated MPs who would have spoken against the government,” said Mallikarjun Kharge, the leader of Opposition in Rajya Sabha. “To have a majority in the Upper House, the ruling party blacklisted the members....” He called this an unconstitutional act.Kharge said the Centre knew the Opposition would raise up the mowing down of protesting farmers in Uttar Pradesh’s Lakhimpur Kheri and the alleged involvement of Union minister Ajay Mishra Teni’s son in it. “So, they intentionally delayed daily proceedings and eventually ended the Winter Session one day earlier,” he said. “They gave us a bad name by saying that the Opposition does not allow the House to run smoothly.”Other Congress leaders Adhir Ranjan Chowdhury and Jairam Ramesh echoed Kharge and said the Centre did not want the issues related to China, inflation, unemployment, and Teni to be raised.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/cong-slams-govt-for-disallowing-discussions-during-parliament-s-winter-session-101640175166549.html
22-12-2021||India||Maoists kill former village head in Telangana||A former village head from Telangana’s Mulugu district was found dead in Kothapalli forests on Wednesday, days after Maoists abducted him on Monday, police said.A police officer said a letter recovered near Korsa Ramesh’s body said he was killed after being tried at a “people’s court” for allegedly working as a double agent. Maoist’s Venkatapuram-Vajedu Area Committee secretary Shantha purportedly wrote the letter, a copy of which HT has seen.Ramesh’s widow, Korsa Rajitha, earlier told local reporters her husband worked as a driver while appealing to Maoists to release him unharmed.In the letter, Shantha claimed Ramesh worked for the Maoists pretending to be their sympathiser but passed on information about them to the police. “Ramesh was in touch with the Venkatapuram police and was passing on vital information about the movements of the Maoists...he was being paid money... At the behest of the police, he supplied milk powder laced with poison to the Maoists, who fell sick after consuming the same. One of the Maoists, M Bhikshapathi alias Vijender, died of poisoning,” Shanta wrote.He blamed Ramesh for tipping off police about Maoist presence that triggered a gunbattle. Shantha claimed Ramesh collected ₹two lakh from the police for this. “We are killing him as per the people’s wish as he betrayed the people and the party.”
22-12-2021||India||3 deaths, injuries at Bengal IOC refinery trigger agitation; govt announces aid||The death of three contractual workers and injury suffered by nearly 40 in a fire on Tuesday at the Indian Oil Corporation (IOC) refinery at Haldia in Bengal’s East Midnapore district triggered protests on Wednesday. A team of senior IOC officials from Delhi reached the refinery. A three-member expert committee started a probe into the accident, IOC officials said. As a few hundred contractual workers assembled outside the plant, demanding compensation for the affected families and treatment for the injured men, state irrigation minister Soumen Mahapatra, who hails from the region, visited the spot and held a meeting with IOC officials. The minister said he demanded upgradation of safety measures inside the plant and adequate compensation for the families of the deceased. “IOC has agreed to give a compensation of ₹5 lakh each to the three families. A similar amount will be given by the private firm that employed these workers,” Mahapatra said after the meeting on Wednesday afternoon. According to IOC, shutdown and maintenance work is going on at some of the major units in the refinery. The accident happened around 2.40 pm on Tuesday at the MSQ unit during a shutdown-related work. “The preliminary cause of the accident seems to be a flash fire leading to burn injuries to 44 people and three persons unfortunately succumbed to the injuries. The fire was immediately extinguished and the situation is now under control,” the IOC said in a statement. IOC officials said the injured employees were initially admitted to the Haldia Refinery Hospital from where 38 men were rushed to two private hospitals in Kolkata late on Tuesday. “The family members of the three workers who unfortunately lost their lives during yesterday’s incident have been contacted for extending all possible support in this hour of grief. Among those with injuries, three contract workers have been discharged after preliminary treatment and 38 others have been admitted at multi-speciality hospitals in Kolkata for advanced medical care,” the IOC said in a statement. “Indian Oil is extending the best medical treatment to the 38 injured and no effort or cost will be spared to ensure their speedy recovery. Their family members are also being contacted for extending all necessary support. The senior management of “Indian Oil is continuously monitoring the situation. Indian Oil shall provide all necessary assistance, relief and adequate compensation to the affected workers. A high-level committee from Delhi is already on site for inquiring into the cause of the incident,” the statement added. On Tuesday, the state police set up a green corridor so that the ambulances could reach Kolkata without having to stop at traffic signals along the 118-kilometer route. In a tweet, West Bengal chief minister Mamata Banerjee said: “Deeply anguished by the fire in IOC, Haldia. Three precious lives were lost and my thoughts are with the bereaved families in this hour of grief. Those injured are being brought to Kolkata through a green corridor. GoWB will extend all assistance to ensure their speedy recovery.” A doctor at one of the private hospitals in Kolkata said some of the men undergoing treatment not only suffered burns but also inhaled toxic gas.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/3-deaths-injuries-at-bengal-ioc-refinery-trigger-agitation-govt-announces-aid-101640173786248.html
22-12-2021||India||News updates from HT: Centre says 7,306 Pakistanis applied for Indian citizenship, and all the latest news||Here are today’s top news, analysis, and opinion. Know all about the latest news and other news updates from Hindustan Times.Over 7,000 Pakistanis applied for Indian citizenship till Dec 14: GovtAs many as 7,306 Pakistani nationals applied for Indian citizenship till December 14, 2021, Union minister of state for home affairs (MoS home) Nityanand Rai informed Parliament on Wednesday. Read more.Woman who ‘met’ Sheena Bora ready to record statement: Indrani Mukerjea's lawyerThe woman who told Indrani Mukerjea that she has seen Sheena Bora alive in J&K is ready to record her statement, Indrani Mukerjea's lawyer Sana R Khan said on Wednesday. Read more.On Union minister's 2019 mandate jibe, Kharge cites Rajya Sabha numbersUnion Minister Pralhad Joshi on Wednesday launched a fresh attack on the Opposition over repeated disruptions during the winter session of Parliament that came to an end during the day. Read more.MG Motor eyes more affordable EVs for India, expects demand for cars to persistMG Motor India sold over 37,000 units in the country between January and November of this year, up from around 24,000 in the same time frame of 2020. Read more.'Every time I see him, he introduces something new': Tendulkar reserves humongous praise for 27-year-old India youngsterWhen the great Sachin Tendulkar speaks, you ought to listen. And when he speaks well of a cricketer, more often than not, it turns out to be the most memorable compliment for that player. Tendulkar has a keen eye for young talents. Read more.Decoupled: There is always room for well-written insufferable characters but Arya Iyer isn't oneDecoupled, Netflix's latest series, shows curiously little about the ‘couple’ at the centre of it. Read more.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/news-updates-from-ht-centre-says-7-306-pakistanis-applied-for-indian-citizenship-and-all-the-latest-news-101640170055845.html
22-12-2021||India||Delhi bans Christmas, New Year gatherings as Omicron cases rise||The Delhi Disaster Management Authority issued an order on Wednesday banning all cultural events and gatherings for Christmas and New Year celebrations in the national capital in view of rising cases of Omicron variant. The DDMA instructed the district magistrates to take all required measures in their respective jurisdictions to control the spread."All DMs and District DCPs shall ensure that no cultural event/gatherings/congregation/take place for celebrating Christmas or New Year in NCT of Delhi," the order reads.Delhi is leading the Omicron tally with 57 cases, followed by Maharashtra (54), Telangana (24) and Karnataka (19), as per the government data.The DDMA instructed all district magistrates to conduct an intensive survey of the entire area in their jurisdiction and identify the pockets which have the potential of becoming hotspots of Covid-19 and the Omicron variant. It also advised the officials to inform the Residents Welfare Associations (RWAs) about the increasing trend of Covid-19 cases and emergence of the new variant of concern.“Since, wearing of mask is the most important weapon in fight against Covid-19, RWAs and MTAs should be advised not to allow their residents, shopkeepers and customers without mask in their respective areas/public places,” the order says.The DDMA has allowed restaurants, bars, and auditoriums to function at 50 per cent capacity while putting a ceiling of 200 people in gatherings related to marriage.Citing the earlier order restricting all social, political, cultural, entertainment and religious gatherings, the authority said that the restrictions are not being strictly followed. It directed the officials to conduct surprise checks and take strict penal action against violators as per the law.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/delhi-bans-christmas-new-year-gatherings-as-omicron-cases-rise-101640170336922.html
22-12-2021||India||Three years of Bhupesh Baghel government in Chhattisgarh||RAIPUR: The Congress government in Chhattisgarh led by Bhupesh Baghel completed three years in power on Friday. In December 2018, Baghel, the then state Congress chief, was appointed chief minister after the party secured a landslide victory, capturing 68 of 90 assembly seats following a political drought of15 years in the tribal-dominated state.
22-12-2021||India||On Union minister's 2019 mandate jibe, Kharge cites Rajya Sabha numbers||Union Minister Pralhad Joshi on Wednesday launched a fresh attack on the Opposition over repeated disruptions during the winter session of Parliament that came to an end during the day.Stating that the Opposition is unable to digest the mandate of 2019 that gave the ruling Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) an overwhelming majority, Joshi said the government wanted to run the House, but the former wasted too many days creating ruckus without any discussion.“Rahul Gandhi is a part-time politician, maybe he is going somewhere to celebrate New Year,” he further said while speaking on the issue.Both the Lok Sabha and Rajya Sabha were adjourned sine die a day ahead of schedule. The session witnessed repeated disruptions and adjournments mainly over the issue of the suspension of 12 Rajya Sabha MPs for their "unruly" conduct in the previous monsoon session in August. Opposition members also protested on issues such as price rise and the Lakhimpur Kheri violence.However, Leader of Opposition in the Upper House Mallikarjun Kharge said the Narendra Modi government had deliberately suspended the 12 MPs so that the bill could be passed easily. “This winter session started with the suspension of 12 MPs. The decision to suspend them in the winter session on the incident that happened in the monsoon session was absolutely wrong. We wanted to discuss issues of unemployment, inflation and others,” he said.Their (BJP) intention was to pass bills immediately without any discussion. Since they were not in majority, they did not want voting on the bills so they decided to reduce some opposition members. As soon as the session started,12 MPs were suspended: Mallikarjun Kharge,LoP in RS pic.twitter.com/Saj3TLAroS"We requested the government to revoke suspension so that the House can run smoothly but they refused. Their (BJP) intention was to pass bills immediately without any discussion. Since they were not in majority, they did not want voting on the bills so they decided to reduce the number of Opposition members. As soon as the session started,12 MPs were suspended,” Kharge was quoted as saying by news agency ANI.Also read | Oppn MPs read Preamble, recite national anthem as Parl session comes to endThe Congress MP further said the attempt to block the operation of the House was deliberate as "they (government) did not want the issues of China, inflation, unemployment or Union minister of state Ajay Kumar Mishra to be raised". Kharge further said Vice President M Venkaiah Naidu who is also Chairman of the House, had informed him that the winter session might be adjourned indefinitely today.Leader of Opposition in the Lok Sabha Adhir Ranjan Chowdhury said the Opposition wanted the House to run smoothly, but the government refused to talk on Mishra's issue. “As the Union minister's name came up (in the violence case), we felt the need to talk to the government. We had demanded that the minister be sacked. If the government does not answer the Opposition, they are responsible for the adjournment of Parliament,” he said.The session saw multiple disruptions by the Opposition members, including trooping into the Well of the House and carrying placards, over the suspension of the 12 MPs and the sacking of Mishra over his jailed son Ashish's involvement in the Lakhimpur Kheri violence.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/on-union-minister-s-2019-mandate-jibe-kharge-cites-rajya-sabha-numbers-101640169636913.html
22-12-2021||India||Niti Aayog’s VK Paul says call on booster will be based on scientific decisions||Niti Aayog member (health) Dr VK Paul on Wednesday said that India will take a decision on the requirement, timing and nature of booster Covid-19 vaccines depending on scientific evidence. “The health minister has said in Parliament that the need, timing and nature of boosting will be based on scientific decisions and thinking that is what the government is engaged with,” Paul was quoted as saying by news agency ANI. c, he said.He said that the government is making coordinated efforts to make sure that medical oxygen is available as and when required. “The country has ramped up oxygen production and availability. A lot of efforts have been made across the country including provisioning more than 1,500 PSA plants. Most of them are now functional. In order to improve coordination and facilitation, a comprehensive data system Oxycare has been launched. Things are being monitored regularly. We are prepared for any eventuality,” Paul said.The government has asked citizens to ensure that they do not miss out or delay the second dose of the Covid-19 vaccine. India vaccinated at least 87% of its eligible population with at least one dose of the Covid-19 vaccine, while 51% of the population have been fully vaccinated with both doses. The government also urged state governments and governments of Union Territories to utilise the remaining vaccine stocks and vaccinate the unvaccinated.Union health secretary Rajesh Bhushan also warned states and Union Territories on Tuesday saying that the Omicron variant is three times more transmissible than the Delta variant. The Omicron variant, which has been categorised as a ‘variant of concern’, by the World Health Organization, is the primary strain causing infections in most European countries and also leading to stricter regulations in those regions.The variant, first discovered in South Africa and its neighbouring countries, has infected more than 200 people in the country. The government also ramped up genomic sequencing to check if Omicron is the driving force behind new cases or if it is leading to a surge.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/niti-aayog-s-vk-paul-says-call-on-booster-will-be-based-on-scientific-decisions-101640168130439.html
22-12-2021||India||Over 7,000 Pakistanis applied for Indian citizenship till Dec 14: Govt||As many as 7,306 Pakistani nationals applied for Indian citizenship till December 14, 2021, Union minister of state for home affairs (MoS home) Nityanand Rai informed Parliament on Wednesday. Pakistani nationals account for nearly 70 per cent of the 10,635 applications for Indian citizenship received till the specified date, according to data provided by the Union home ministry.Rai was replying to a query from MP Abdul Wahab who sought details of current applicants for Indian citizenship, including the data of their present citizenship.The MoS further said applications for Indian citizenship are pending from other countries, including Afghanistan, Sri Lanka, the United States, Nepal and Bangladesh. He added as many as 1,152 applications are pending from Afghanistan, 428 from Stateless, 223 from the US and Sri Lanka, and 189 and 161 from Nepal and Bangladesh, respectively. As many as 10 applications are pending from China as well, the minister told the Parliament.Also Read | Rajya Sabha clocks productivity of 47.9% in winter sessionTelangana Rashtra Samithi (TRS) Rajya Sabha MP K Keshava Rao wanted to know about the total number of applications that India received from minority groups -- Hindu, Sikh, Christian, Jain and Buddhist – of Pakistan, Bangladesh and Afghanistan between 2018 and 2021. He also asked how many people were granted citizenship by India.Rai said the Centre has received 8,244 applications for Indian citizenship from minority groups from these neighbouring nations between 2018 and 2021, and granted citizenship to 3,117 of them.Earlier this month, Rai told the Lok Sabha that over 8.5 lakh Indian nationals renounced their citizenship in the last seven years till September 30, 2021. He added 1,11,287 individuals gave up their Indian citizenship this year itself till September 20.The Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP)-led Centre introduced the Citizenship Amendment Act (CAA) in 2019, and the law came into effect on January 10, 2020. Under the Act, people belonging to minority groups and from Bangladesh, Pakistan and Afghanistan, who came to India till December 31, 2014, can apply for Indian citizenship. The Centre is yet to notify rules under the CAA and has asked for time till January 2022 to frame the same.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/over-7-000-pakistanis-applied-for-indian-citizenship-till-dec-14-govt-101640163100893.html
22-12-2021||India||Border disputes: Assam makes fresh charges, Meghalaya denies||GUWAHATI: As the year-end deadline nears for the Assam and Meghalaya governments to resolve six of the existing 12 border disputes, tensions flared on Tuesday as Assam’s border areas development minister Atul Bora told the state assembly that some residents in the disputed areas were being instigated by Meghalaya to take its side. “A section of people is instigating the… Garos of Assam to side with Meghalaya. These residents have been casting their votes in Assam. We’ve [even] given them Covid-19 vaccines,” Bora said, adding that Assam police personnel have been deployed to those areas. The Assam minister was responding to a discussion in the assembly started by Congress MLA from Boko, Nandita Das, who alleged that some people from her constituency who reside along the border were being “encouraged” by Meghalaya police to pick their side in the dispute.Bora and Das are members of one of multiple regional committees formed to defuse the border crisis in Kamrup district. They have made visits to the disputed areas and met with the residents. Das also claimed that some people from Meghalaya were preventing pro-Assam residents from the border areas from attending joint meetings of the panels that are tackling the disputes. She called on the Assam government to provide security to the residents.Also Read: On Manipur visit, Conrad Sangma vows to continue fight to repeal AFSPAMeghalaya chief minister Conrad Sangma, however, has firmly denied the claim, saying no such pressure was being applied on people living in the disputed zones. “I don’t think it’s possible to pressurise anyone in any way,” Sangma told reporters in Shillong on Tuesday. “People will make their choice. We’ve left it to the people to express their concerns. They will decide what’s best for them.”“There may be some concerns from Assam’s side, but I’m constantly in touch with the Assam chief minister. It’s not possible for us to influence anyone. They (the residents) will make their own choice,” the Meghalaya CM said. The two chief ministers were expected to meet in Guwahati later on Wednesday to discuss the border issues.Assam and Meghalaya share a 733km boundary. Border disputes between the two sides were commonplace since 1972 when Meghalaya was carved out of Assam.Earlier this year, the two state governments agreed to resolve by the end of 2021 six of 12 identified border disputes. An update on that is expected to be announced on December 31.
22-12-2021||India||Woman who ‘met’ Sheena Bora ready to record statement: Indrani Mukerjea's lawyer||The woman who told Indrani Mukerjea that she has seen Sheena Bora alive in J&K is ready to record her statement, Indrani Mukerjea's lawyer Sana R Khan said on Wednesday. The woman claimed to have met Sheena Bora, murdered in 2012, on June 24, near Dal Lake, the lawyer told news agency ANI. "We will file an application to direct CBI to conduct a fair probe," the lawyer said.The six-year-old case in connection with which Indrani Mukerjea was arrested in 2015 for killing her daughter Sheena Bora created a ripple once again as Indrani Mukerjea wrote to the CBI that Sheena is alive. In her letter, she claimed that a woman government official told her that she had seen Sheena. CBI took over the case in 2015 and has completed its investigation. The CBI is not taking Indrani Mukerjea's letter seriously, as they are seeing it only as an attempt to prolong the case. The CBI has already concluded its probe and concluded that Indrani Mukerjea had murdered her daughter Sheena Bora in 2012 with the help of her driver Shyamvar Rai and second husband Sanjeev Khanna. Indrani did not approve of Sheena's relationship with Rahul Mukerjea, the son of Peter Mukerjea, who was Indrani's third husband. Sheena had threatened Indrani that she will reveal to everyone that she was Indrani's daughter and not her sister, as Indrani used to tell people.The heinous murder came to the surface three years after in 2015 when Indrani Mukerjea's former driver was interrogated by the Mumbai Police in connection with some other case. Three years after Sheena Bora was killed, burnt and buried, the skeleton was exhumed and sent for forensic, which confirmed that the death took place because of strangulation and there was no fracture in the bone structure. Indrani, however, claimed that it was not Sheena's skeleton as Sheena was alive and was abroad for studies.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/woman-who-met-sheena-bora-ready-to-record-statement-indrani-mukerjea-s-lawyer-101640166183529.html
22-12-2021||India||Introspect, Venkaiah Naidu tells MPs as Rajya Sabha adjourned sine die||NEW DELHI: Rajya Sabha’s winter session, which started embroiled in protests over the suspension of 12 Opposition MPs for their conduct in the last session, ended on Wednesday with the Rajya Sabha chairman M Venkaiah Naidu asking lawmakers to introspect and reflect on their conduct.Naidu said the House functioned “much below its potential” and called on members of Parliament to work towards a “constructive positive atmosphere” for the larger interest of the country.Rajya Sabha utilised only 47.9% of its allotted time during the 18 sittings. Out of the total scheduled sitting time of 95 hours 6 minutes, Rajya Sabha transacted only for 45 hours 34 minutes, according to news agency ANI citing official statistics.Naidu said the lawmakers must realise that “what happened is wrong”“I urge you all to collectively reflect and introspect if this session would have been different and better. I don’t want to speak elaborately on the course of this session as it would lead me to take a very critical view,” Naidu said as he adjourned the Rajya Sabha sine die on Wednesday, a day ahead of the session’s scheduled end.This will be the fifth time in a row when a Parliament session was adjourned sine die ahead of schedule. The first one was the 2020 budget session that was wrapped up 13 days ahead of schedule. The winter session of 2020 and this year’s budget as well as monsoon sessions also faced early closure due to Covid-19.The chairman stressed that rulings, regulations and procedures have to be followed and said precedents, decency and decorum have to be maintained by the leaders.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/introspect-venkaiah-naidu-tells-mps-as-rajya-sabha-adjourned-sine-die-101640166405810.html
22-12-2021||India||Oppn MPs read Preamble, recite national anthem as Parliament session comes to end||As the winter session of Parliament came to an end on Wednesday, Opposition leaders, including the 12 suspended Rajya MPs, read the Preamble to the Constitution and recited the national anthem before the statue of Mahatma Gandhi on the premises.Among others, Congress’ Leader of Opposition in the Rajya Sabha Mallikarjun Kharge, also took part in protesting against the suspension of the MPs for the entire session for alleged unruly conduct during the previous monsoon session in August. TMC MP Derek O’brien, who was suspended a day ago over 'unruly behaviour', also joined the symbolic protest.#WATCH | Opposition leaders including LoP Rajya Sabha Mallikarjun Kharge along with suspended MPs read the Preamble to the Constitution of India and recite the national anthem before the Mahatma Gandhi statue in Parliament to protest against the suspension of MPs pic.twitter.com/9ZLp4Zf4mPBoth the Lok Sabha and Rajya Sabha witnessed repeated adjournments and uproar, including they trooping into the Well of the House, carrying placards, over the suspension of the MPs, all of whom continued to protest beneath the Gandhi statue for the entire winter session.While the government asked the MPs to express remorse and apologise to have their suspension revoked, the Opposition refused to budge. The 12 suspended MPs, were Elamaram Kareem (CPI-M), Phulo Devi Netam (Congress), Chhaya Verma (Congress), Ripun Bora (Congress), Binoy Viswam (CPI), Rajamani Patel (Congress), Dola Sen (Trinamool Congress), Shanta Chhetri (Trinamool Congress), Syed Nasir Hussain (Congress), Priyanka Chaturvedi (Shiv Sena), Anil Desai (Shiv Sena) and Akhilesh Prasad Singh (Congress).Hitting out at the Opposition over the repeated din, parliamentary affairs minister Pralhad Joshi said saying they seem to be "unable to digest" the mandate of 2019. He added that despite the disruptions, the productivity of Lok Sabha was around 82 per cent and that of Rajya Sabha around 48 per cent.The session, which began on November 29, was concluded a day ahead of its scheduled end on December 23."It is unfortunate that despite our efforts and reaching out to the opposition, they created ruckus in the House. It seems that Congress and other opposition parties are unable to digest the mandate of 2019 given by the people," Joshi told a press conference after the session came to a close.However, Kharge said the government's suspension move was a deliberate to ensure bills are passed easily and without any discussion. "We requested the government to revoke suspension so that the House can run smoothly but they refused. Now they are blaming the Opposition for it," he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/oppn-mps-read-preamble-recite-national-anthem-as-parl-session-comes-to-end-101640164133396.html
22-12-2021||India||When will govt allow Covid vaccine booster shots, asks Rahul Gandhi||NEW DELHI: Congress leader Rahul Gandhi on Wednesday pointed out that a majority of Indians remain unvaccinated and questioned when will the government allow booster shots amid a growing concern over the Omicron variant of Covid-19. In a tweet, Gandhi shared a graphic, according to which, only 42% of the population will be vaccinated by the end of the year.Delhi chief minister Arvind Kejriwal earlier on Monday urged the Centre to allow booster doses.During the Parliament’s Winter Session, which concluded on Wednesday, lawmakers also argued in favour of booster shots. Trinamool Congress member Kakoli Ghosh Dastida said, “Why should our not elderly be given the booster dose?”Telangana Desam Party’s Jayadev Galla stressed the need to take quick decisions on booster doses for the full-vaccinated and to vaccinate those below 18.As of Wednesday, 170 Omicron cases have been detected in the country.Also Read: In 4 charts, how India is doing on vaccinating people. checking Covid spreadUnion health minister Mansukh Mandaviya told Parliament on Monday that over 50% of the eligible population has been double vaccinated. “...88% of the first dose and 58% of the second dose have been given...”The Centre said vaccinating the adult population with both doses will be its first priority ahead of booster doses. Some experts believe India should have started booster doses by now at least for vulnerable populations and healthcare workers. “Research in Israel, Canada and the US has shown immunity is 20% to 50% after six months of vaccination. So, there is no question that boosters are important,” said pulmonologist G C Khilnani.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/when-will-govt-allow-covid-vaccine-booster-shots-asks-rahul-gandhi-101640164125047.html
22-12-2021||India||Sidhu slams Kejriwal, Amarinder Singh over Majithia drug case, shares old proof||Punjab Congress chief Navjot Singh Sidhu on Wednesday tore into former Punjab chief minister Amarinder Singh and AAP leader Arvind Kejriwal a day after former Punjab minister and senior SAD leader Bikram Singh Majithia was booked under the NDPS Act in a drug-related case. Sharing an old letter to Majithia in which Kejriwal had apologised to Majithia, Sidhu said AAP finds the FIR against Majithia a stunt as they now run a liquor mafia in Delhi in partnership with the Akali. On the same issue, Sidhu targeted Amarinder Singh for saying that a wrong case has been filed against Majithia.The home ministry on Wednesday issued a lookout circular against Majithia to stop him from fleeing the country.AAP Chief @ArvindKejriwal first said “Sorry Sir” to Majithia now they run liquor mafia in Delhi in partnership with Akali MLA Deep Malhotra and allow Badal buses to Delhi Airport bt not PRTC buses. AAP backs 75-25 system, so they are saying FIR based on ED & STF report is a stunt pic.twitter.com/KWYDepQJMfA case under the Narcotic Drugs and Psychotropic Substances (NDPS) Act was registered against him on the basis of a 2018 status report of a probe into the drug racket in the state. The report was filed by anti-drug special task force (STF) chief Harpreet Singh Sidhu in the Punjab and Haryana High Court in 2018.
22-12-2021||India||Keeping up with UP | An emotional Amethi welcomes Rahul. But 2024 won't be easy||This story may be political history, but it is political history that informs the present, confirms shifts in the mind of voters, captures the change in aspiration, and is a marker of what forms the backbone of a successful election campaign. The history of Amethi may tell us the tale of the deep emotional bond the Gandhi's have with the area, but what it now also shows is that despite a return to Amethi this week by Rahul Gandhi, there is doubt whether just an emotional connect is now enough.
22-12-2021||India||Covid-19: Andhra reports second Omicron case as new variant continues to spread||Andhra Pradesh reported its second case of the Omicron variant of the coronavirus on Wednesday, 10 days after the first case of the new strain surfaced in the state.Public health director G Hymavathi said a 39-year-old woman, who returned from Kenya via Chennai on December 10 and travelled to Tirupati by car, has tested positive for the variant. “She underwent RT-PCR test for Covid-19 on reaching Tirupati and was found to be positive on December 12. Her sample was sent to the Centre for Cellular and Molecular Biology, Hyderabad, for genome sequencing and the result was declared as Omicron positive on Wednesday.”Hymavathi said six members of the woman’s family tested negative. “She is healthy and in institutional quarantine under close observation.”Also Read: AIIMS director Dr Randeep Guleria’s fresh warning amid Omicron rise in IndiaThe first Omicron case was reported in the state on December 12 after a 34-year-old man, who returned to his native Vizianagaram from Ireland in late November via Mumbai, tested positive for it. The man’s RT-PCR report at Mumbai earlier came negative. At Vizianagaram, he tested Covid-19 positive and subsequently for the Omicron variant. He has since recovered.Hymavathi said so far samples of 45 foreign travellers and their nine contacts, who have tested positive for Covid-19, have been sent for genome sequencing. “There is no need for panic and we request the people not to believe any rumours. However, they should continue to take precautions.”
22-12-2021||India||3,117 from minority communities of Afghanistan, Pak and Bangladesh granted citizenship, RS told||Union minister of state for home affairs Nityanand Rai said that at least 3,117 people belonging to minority communities from Pakistan, Bangladesh and Afghanistan were granted Indian citizenship between 2018 to 2021.Rai’s response came after Telangana Rashtra Samithi (TRS) Rajya Sabha MP Dr K Keshava Rao asked a question regarding the total number of citizenship applications received from minotiry groups like Hindu, Sikh, Jain and Christian in Pakistan, Bangladesh and Afghanistan between 2018 and 2021. He also wanted to know the number of people who were granted Indian citizenship.Rai said that the government received 8,244 citizenship applications from the minority groups in India's neighbouring countries in these four years and granted citizenship to 3,117 applicants. Rai further added that all foreign nationals including refugee seekers are governed by the provisions contained in The Foreigners Act, 1946, The Registration of Foreigners Act, 1939, The Passport (Entry into India) Act, 1920 and The Citizenship Act, 1955, according to a report by news agency PTI.While replying to a separate question asked by Member of Parliament Abdul Wahab on current applicants for Indian citizenship, Rai said that there were 1,152 applications pending from Afghanistan, followed by 428 from stateless people, 223 from Sri Lanka and USA, 189 from Nepal and 161 from Bangladesh till December 14, 2021.He also said that as many as 10 applicants from China had applied for Indian citizenship.The government had in 2019 introduced the Citizenship Amendment Act (CAA) to grant citizenship to persecuted minorities like Hindus, Sikhs, Buddhists, Jains, Parsis and Christians from Afghanistan, Bangladesh and Pakistan, who entered into India on or before December 31, 2014. The CAA led to several protests in Assam and northeastern states as indigenous groups claimed that it threatened them. Protests against the CAA and the National Register of Citizens (NRC) also went on for several months in Delhi’s Shaheen Bagh between 2019 and 2020.The government said in July this year that there will be a delay in the implementation of CAA, and that an extension has been sought till January 9 next year. This was also informed by Nityanand Rai, who said that the Lok Sabha and the Rajya Sabha have been asked to give an extension of time to frame the rules under the CAA.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/3117-from-minority-communities-of-afghanistan-pak-and-bangladesh-granted-citizenship-rs-told-101640161705605.html
22-12-2021||India||'People look at senior politicians' behaviour': Dilip Ghosh slams Derek O'Brien||Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) leader Dilip Ghosh on Wednesday hit out at his rival and Trinamool Congress (TMC) MP in Rajya Sabha, Derek O'Brien, over the latter's suspension from the Upper House of Parliament.Speaking to news agency ANI, Dilip Ghosh said that it was not right if a senior Member of Parliament like O'Brien gets suspended again and again.Also Read| Derek O’Brien throws rule book at Rajya Sabha chair, suspended“People look at senior politicians and their behaviour. If a child gets suspended at school it's different, they might be hopeless. But if a senior MP gets suspended, it means they do things deliberately,” Ghosh, the former president of BJP's West Bengal unit added.Derek O'Brien was suspended from the Rajya Sabha on Tuesday after he threw the house rule book at the Chair.I don't think it's right if senior MP gets suspended again&again. People look at senior politicians&their behaviour. If a child gets suspended at school it's different, they might be hopeless.But if senior MP gets suspended,it means they do things deliberately: BJP MP Dilip Ghosh pic.twitter.com/MQW2KE94sM“The rule book could have hit the chair or secretary-general or other officials. Derek O’Brien thereby resorted to grave misconduct and gross violation of rules and norms and etiquette,” Rajya Sabha vice-chairman Sasmit Patra said on Tuesday.Patra added that instead of setting high standards of conduct in the House, Derek O'Brien set a bad example and denigrated the dignity and stature of the House.Also Watch| 'Unruly behaviour': Derek O'Brien accused of throwing rulebook at the ChairSoon after he was suspended, O'Brien took to Twitter on Tuesday and said, “Today, suspended while protesting against BJP making a mockery of Parliament and Bulldozing the Election Laws Bill 2021. Hope this bill too will be repealed soon.”His suspension, however, only lasted for a few hours as the Rajya Sabha and the Lok Sabha adjourned sine die ahead of schedule on Wednesday. The winter session of Parliament had started on November 29 and was scheduled to end on December 23.Previously, the TMC MP was suspended during the passing of the three farm laws by the Centre in September 2020.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/people-look-at-senior-politicians-behaviour-dilip-ghosh-slams-derek-obrien-101640159273803.html
22-12-2021||India||Rajya Sabha clocks productivity of 47.9%; chairman Naidu says 'much below its potential'||Rajya Sabha chairman Venkaiah Naidu on Wednesday expressed his concern and unhappiness over the functioning of the upper house of Parliament during the winter session. This comes as both Lok Sabha and Rajya Sabha adjourned proceedings sine die today, ahead of the scheduled end of the session (on December 23).In brief remarks, Naidu urged members to collectively reflect and individually introspect on the way the session proceeded. "I am not happy to share with you that the House functioned much below its potential," the Rajya Sabha chairman said. "I urged all of you to collectively and individually reflect and introspect if this Session could have been different and better," he added."I don't want to speak elaborately on the course of this session as it would lead me to take a very critical view," he also said.According to the statistics regarding various aspects of the functioning of the House during the winter session, Rajya Sabha clocked productivity of 47.90 per cent during the 18 sittings, news agency ANI reported. Out of the total scheduled sitting time of 95 hours 6 minutes, the House could discharge business only for 45 hours 34 minutes, the data also showed, as per ANI.The productivity percentage is the fifth-lowest among that of the 12 sessions presided over by Naidu over the last four years. A total time of 49 hours 32 minutes lost due to constant disruptions and forced adjournments.The time lost amounts to 52.08 per cent of available time.Meanwhile, the upper house passed 10 bills including those related to electoral reforms and surrogacy.A total time of 21 hours 7 minutes was spent on discussing the government bills including the Appropriation Bill accounting for 46.50% of the functional time of the House, according to the data. As many as 127 interventions were made by the Members in these debates.This winter session that commenced on November 29 saw a stormy start as the chairman suspended 12 members of the opposition parties over their unruly behaviour during the monsoon session in August. Since then, opposition members created a constant uproar in Parliament leading to multiple adjournments in the day.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/rajya-sabha-clocks-productivity-of-47-9-chairman-naidu-says-much-below-its-potential-101640161468213.html
22-12-2021||India||Priyanka Gandhi has a Shashi Kapoor's ‘mere paas’ reference for the UP election||Unfazed by the criticism against Congress' poll plank for Uttar Pradesh 'Ladki hoon, lad sakti hoon', Congress leader Priyanka Gandhi has asserted that women empowerment will remain Congress's main strength in the upcoming election in the state. Tweeting an exclusive interview with a news channel, the Congress leader on Wednesday said sisters will bring change in politics.In the video, a smiling Priyanka can be seen invoking a reference of Shashi Kapoor in the 1975 film, Deewar. "Have you heard that dialogue? Amitabh Bachchan and Shashi Kapoor were brothers in the movie. Amitabh Bachchan tells Shashi Kapoor ‘mere paas gaadhi hai, bunglow hai, yeh hai, woh hai’. Then Shashi Kapoor says, 'mere paas maa hai'. So, I am also saying ‘mere paas behen hai’," Priyanka Gandhi said to the television channel.मेरे पास बहनें हैं…बहनें राजनीति में बदलाव लाएंगी।#लड़की_हूं_लड़_सकती_हूं pic.twitter.com/v2uVpsO1wAMaking women voters a priority, Congress this time rolled out a women's manifesto for Uttar Pradesh, promising 40% quota in government jobs if the party is voted to power. The party has promised tax rebates and other sops for women, including free bus travel. Before releasing the women's manifesto, the party promised smartphones for 12 pass girls and scooty for all graduate girls.Dissing Congress's slogan, Union minister Smriti Irani had earlier said, “Ghar pad ladka hai par lad nahin sakta (There is a boy at home who can't fight').”Congress's focus on women empowerment has made other parties talk about women, Priyanka recently said. "The impact of my initiative was so much that now all political parties are talking about women. Day after tomorrow, the prime minister is going to hold a public meeting in which only women have been invited. Now, all political parties have started speaking about women," Priyanka said on Sunday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/priyanka-gandhi-has-a-shashi-kapoor-reference-for-the-up-election-101640160040274.html
22-12-2021||India||Rafale deal: Defence ministry fines European missile maker over delay in fulfilling offset obligations||The defence ministry has imposed a fine of less than 1 million euros on European missile maker MBDA for delay in fulfilling its offset obligations under the Rafale aircraft deal, sources said on Wednesday.French aerospace major Dassault Aviation is the manufacturer of the Rafale jets while MBDA supplies the missile systems for the aircraft.India had signed an inter-governmental agreement with France in September 2016 to procure 36 Rafale jets at a cost of ₹59,000 crore, and the offset obligations were part of the contract.As a part of the deal, 50 per cent of the total contract value has to be reinvested in India as offsets in each year between September 2019 and September 2022.The sources said the defence ministry has imposed and collected a fine of less than 1 million euros from MBDA for delaying its offset obligations for the September 2019-September 2020 period.MBDA has deposited its penalty but has also lodged its protest with the defence ministry, they said.MBDA did not respond to PTI's request for a statement on this matter.The first batch of Rafale fighter aircraft came to India in July last year.The CAG had in September last year said that Dassault Aviation and MBDA are yet to fulfil their offset obligations of offering high technology to India under the Rafale aircraft deal, according to the Comptroller and Auditor General's report released on Wednesday.In its report tabled in Parliament, the national auditor had said that Dassault Aviation and MBDA proposed in September 2015 to discharge 30 per cent of their offset obligations by offering high technology to the Defence Research and Development Organisation (DRDO), but the two firms were yet to do it.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/rafale-deal-defence-ministry-fines-european-missile-maker-over-delay-in-fulfilling-offset-obligations-101640159636190.html
22-12-2021||India||Pralay missile successfully test-fired, reached target with ‘high degree’ accuracy: DRDO||India on Wednesday successfully test-fired the surface-to-surface guided, short-range Pralay ballisitic missile, the Defence Research and Development Organisation (DRDO) said, adding that weapon met all its objectives.
22-12-2021||India||Lakshadweep: Move to change weekly holiday from Friday to Sunday triggers row||The move to change the weekly holiday for schools from Friday to Sunday has triggered a fresh backlash against the administration in Muslim-majority Lakshadweep months after protests over alleged attempts to change its unique culture and traditions rocked the archipelago.The administration issued a circular on December 17 modifying school timings, saying changes were in tune with national norms and to ensure maximum utilisation of resources. Around 96% of the archipelago’s 66,000 residents are Muslims. Schools remained closed on Fridays in Lakshadweep to facilitate the all-important afternoon congregational prayers.The Save Lakshadweep Forum, a body of political and religious bodies, said this is the latest move to “destroy the region’s cultural identity” and that it would oppose the move fiercely. “This is another move to spoil the identity of the island. Administrator Praful Khoda Patel is unnecessarily provoking poor residents. We will not allow this to happen,” said the forum in a statement.A draft Lakshadweep Development Authority Regulation to develop the islands as a major tourist destination triggered protests in the region earlier this year. Residents alleged the regulation will destroy the islands’ character and identity since 97% of the islands are covered by pristine forests and 95% of its Muslim population belongs to the Scheduled Tribe category. Many parliamentarians, former bureaucrats, and artists described the regulation as arbitrary and aimed against the community of the islands.The Kerala assembly passed a unanimous resolution seeking the recall of Patel over it. As many as 93 retired bureaucrats sent a letter to Prime Minister Narendra Modi criticising Patel’s “partisan attitude”. They urged him to protect the region’s unique culture and tradition.Also Read: ‘Fire on stranded ship off Lakshadweep brought down, all passengers & crew safe’Lakshadweep collector Asgar Ali said the change in the holiday was in line with a long-pending demand of teachers and a section of parents. “It is nothing to do with the religion. We are providing a one-hour break to students to offer Friday prayers. The administration is following the national system where Sunday is designated as a holiday. This will help streamline things.”B Hassan, the local district panchayat president, said the administration never consulted anyone before announcing a sweeping change like this. “The majority community should have been consulted before taking such a decision. You cannot take decisions like this which will antagonise the majority of the people,” he said. He said there will be a practical difficulty for students in completing prayers and lunch during the one-hour break.The region’s residents have also opposed a move to ban cattle slaughter, implementation of a two-child norm for local body members, issuance of liquor licenses, and other new rules.In August, the Kerala high court, which has jurisdiction over Lakshadweep, rejected a petition questioning the Lakshadweep administration’s decision to close dairy farms and remove meat from the midday meals in schools. The court said it cannot interfere in policy matters of the administration. An appeal against this is pending before the Supreme Court.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/lakshadweep-move-to-change-weekly-holiday-from-friday-to-sunday-triggers-row-101640158844646.html
22-12-2021||India||AIIMS director Dr Randeep Guleria's fresh warning amid Omicron rise in India||A day after the Centre wrote to all states and Union Territories to prepare for the battle against Omicron on a war footing, AIIMS Delhi director Dr Randeep Guleria said vaccine and Covid-appropriate behaviour are the only two ways to counter the increasing spread of the new variant. As of Wednesday, India has reported 213 Omicron cases starting from December 2, when the first Omicron cases in the country were detected."Omicron is a more transmissible variant. We need to do two things to protect ourselves, first one is to take vaccines and the second is to follow Covid-appropriate behaviour," Dr Guleria said.Omicron spread: PM Modi to hold Covid-19 review meeting on ThursdayEarlier, Dr Guleria said existing vaccines can be tweaked for protection against Omicron. "We will have second-generation vaccines. This is something which we need to keep in mind. The current vaccines are effective but with new variants, they will decrease immunity. However, vaccines can be tweaked...There are also studies going on about if we can have a bivalent COVID-19 vaccine. Let's say the Delta variant and Beta variant combined into one vaccine that makes a bivalent vaccine."The Omicron cases reported in India are mostly from foreign-origin which means either the patients have been to foreign countries or they have come into contact with someone who has been to a foreign country. All cases have been mild with no major symptoms reported so far. Though most patients are recovering in home isolation, state governments are getting Omicron patients admitted to facilities as there is a chance of transmission in home isolation.In its letter to the states and UTs in which the Centre pressed the emergency button, it said, "Based on current scientific evidence, the VOC Omicron is at least three times more transmissible than the Delta VOC. Besides, the Delta VOC is still present in different parts of the country. Hence, even greater foresight, data analysis, dynamic decision making and strict and prompt containment action is required at the local and district level. The decision making at the State/UTs and district level must be very prompt and focussed."||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/aiims-director-dr-randeep-guleria-s-fresh-warning-amid-omicron-rise-in-india-101640158265117.html
22-12-2021||India||Andhra Pradesh reports second Omicron case, patient had travel history to Kenya||Andhra Pradesh on Wednesday reported its second case due to the Omicron variant of the coronavirus, the state government said. The patient, a 39-year-old woman, had a travel history to Kenya.Speaking to news agency ANI, Dr Hymavati, the director of the state’s health department, said on Wednesday that the woman arrived at the Chennai Airport from Kenya on December 10.Also Read| Omicron spread: PM Modi to hold Covid-19 review meeting on Thursday“She reached Tirupati by car. She was tested on reaching Tirupati and declared RT-PCR positive for Covid-19 on December 12,” Dr Hymavati said and added that the patient is healthy and in institutional quarantine.“The sample was sent to Centre for Cellular and Molecular Biology (CCMB), Hyderabad for Genome Sequencing and the result was declared as Omicron Positive on December 22,” Dr Hymavati further told the news agency.However, the woman’s family members were tested for Covid-19 and their results came negative, Dr Hymavati added.The first case of Omicron in Andhra Pradesh was detected on December 12. The health department said that a 34-year-old foreign traveller who came to Mumbai from Ireland initially tested negative for Covid-19.Till now, Andhra Pradesh has seen a total of 45 foreign travellers and 9 contacts getting infected with Covid-19.Also Read| Amid Omicron threat, Covid R-value has gone up in these statesMeanwhile, in India, the total number of Omicron cases has crossed the 200-mark with Delhi and Maharashtra being the leading contributors.States and Union Territories (UTs) have been asked by the Centre to be on alert amid the increased spread of the variant in the country. On Tuesday, the Union health secretary advised states and UTs to implement strategic interventions for containment such as night curfews, strict regulation of large gatherings, allowing fewer people in offices and public transport etc.(With ANI inputs)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/andhra-pradesh-reports-second-omicron-case-patient-had-travel-history-to-kenya-101640155596495.html
22-12-2021||India||News updates from HT: Kejriwal says TMC not part of the contest in Goa polls and all the latest news||Here are today’s top news, analysis, and opinion. Know all about the latest news and other news updates from Hindustan Times.'TMC doesn't stand anywhere in race': AAP's Kejriwal in Goa ahead of polls"I think TMC doesn't have even a 1% vote share as of now. It came to Goa only 3 months back, democracy doesn't work like this. You need to work hard, you need to work among people," Kejriwal also said. Read more here. 'Like MS Dhoni always said..': R Ashwin recalls former India captain's words; explains how he got over injury 'trauma'Ashwin recalled the words from former Indian captain Mahendra Singh Dhoni and insisted that he has “cracked the process.” Read more here. Karisma Kapoor blesses our week in white anarkali suit for new pics, Amrita Arora reactsKarisma Kapoor brightened our week with her stunning pictures in a pristine white anarkali suit. She posted the photos on Instagram and got a reaction from Amrita Arora. Read more here. Triumph Street Twin EC1 launched in India. Price and more details hereThe new Street Twin EC1 Special Edition bike comes with a unique custom-inspired scheme featuring Matte Aluminium Silver and Matte Silver shades. Read more here. Oscars 2022 shortlist: Koozhangal, India’s official entry, is out of race; Rintu Thomas' Writing With Fire scores a spotOscars 2022: Koozhangal is out of the race. Writing With Fire, makes it to the shortlist in the best documentary feature category. Read more here. How Dubai ruler’s divorce settlement became one of the most expensive||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/news-updates-from-ht-kejriwal-says-tmc-not-part-of-the-contest-in-goa-polls-101640156924093.html
22-12-2021||India||Will approach SC for OBC quota in MP panchayat elections, says Shivraj Chouhan||BHOPAL: The Madhya Pradesh government and the Centre will approach the Supreme Court against its verdict striking down the quota for other backward classes (OBCs) in local body elections to ensure that the panchayat election announced earlier this month are held with reservation for OBCs, chief minister Shivraj Chouhan told the state assembly on Tuesday.Panchayat elections in Madhya Pradesh are stated to be held in three phases on January 6, January 28 and February 16, 2022. The nomination process for the first phase has begun.On Friday last, the Supreme Court stayed the election process on seats reserved for OBC in the local body polls and told the state to renotify OBC category seats as general due to a lack of empirical data.During the discussion in the assembly on the top court’s verdict on Tuesday, Chouhan also blamed Congress leaders for approaching the Supreme Court in the first place that led to what he described as an injustice to the OBC population. “They were adamant about the cancellation of reservation which resulted in OBC reservation was struck down by the apex court,” the chief minister said.“But we will not allow this injustice. We will not allow panchayat elections without OBC reservation. The central government will move the court and we will also go to ensure OBC reservation in panchayat elections,” he added.The chief minister was referring to a petition filed by some Congress leaders - senior advocate and Rajya Sabha MP Vivek Tankha appeared for them in court - against the state ordinance in November to conduct panchayat elections as per rotation of reservation and delimitation in 2014. The Congress insisted that the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) government was wrong to have annulled the delimitation and reservation notification of 2019 issued when Kamal Nath was the chief minister. Nath, now leader of opposition in the state assembly, sought to blunt Chouhan’s attacks, wondering why the advocate general was not able to persuade the court that OBC quota wasn’t an issue in Madhya Pradesh. “The state government also had the option of filing a review petition but BJP leaders are more interested in doing politics. But I urge the state government to move to the court to resolve this issue.”
22-12-2021||India||Modi govt working to develop full ecosystem for semiconductor chip manufacturing||India expects at least a dozen semiconductor manufacturers to start setting up local factories in the next 2-3 years after the South Asian nation offered incentives for the sector, the country’s information and technology minister said. Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s government is working on developing a full ecosystem for the chip manufacturing industry and will start taking applications under its incentive scheme from Jan. 1, Ashwini Vaishnaw, who also holds the railways and telecom portfolio, said in an interview with Bloomberg Television’s Haslinda Amin and Rishaad Salamat.“The response has been very good. All the big players are in talks with Indian partners and many want to come directly to set up their units here. Almost all big ones are talking to us,” Vaishnaw said.The country intends to get involved in several stages of chipmaking, including silicon and display fabs and semiconductor packaging. It will start with fabrication of mature 28nm to 45nm parts and will request a road map from candidate companies for moving to more advanced production techniques over time, the minister said. Taiwan Semiconductor Manufacturing Co. and Samsung Electronics Co., the leading producers of the world’s most advanced chips, have shown themselves willing to expand internationally with recent announcements of new fabs in the US and Japan, aided by local government support.Last week, the Modi government approved sops worth 760 billion rupees ($10 billion) spread over six years to boost local chip production, a move which is likely to help the South Asian nation reduce its reliance on expensive imports of the material used in everything from mobile phones to electric vehicles amid a global shortage. Currently, India relies on overseas manufacturers for almost all of its semiconductor requirement.  India joins a growing list of nations from Japan to Europe and the U.S. in setting aside multibillion-dollar subsidies for domestic chipmaking, after a global shortage of the vital components walloped a plethora of important industries and exposed economic vulnerabilities.The government has already notified the plan and expects compound semiconductor units and design and packaging companies to get approval within the next 3-4 months, Vaishnaw said. “In next 2-3 years time frame, we see at least 10-12 semiconductors going into production, we see display fab going into production or may be finalizing completion,” the minister, who has an MBA from the Wharton School of the University of Pennsylvania and attended the Indian Institute of Technology, said. “At least 50-60 designing companies would have started designing the products in the next 2-3 years”.On the proposed 5G auctions, Vaishnaw said the telecoms regulator is holding consultations with industry and is likely to submit its recommendations by March next year and the spectrum pricing is expected to be “reasonable”. The government aims to start 5G services by Oct.-Dec. 2022. After offering a rescue package for embattled mobile phone operators earlier in Sept., the government is also looking at a complete overhaul of the sector, exploring ways to allow companies to merge, expand and operate without multiple bureaucratic approvals, Bloomberg News had earlier reported.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/modi-govt-working-to-develop-full-ecosystem-for-semiconductor-chip-manufacturing-101640156216535.html
22-12-2021||India||Omicron spread: PM Modi to hold Covid-19 review meeting on Thursday||Prime Minister Narendra Modi will on Thursday review the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) situation in the country in the wake of Omicron’s spread, news agency ANI reported. The new variant of the Sars-CoV-2 virus has affected more than 200 people in the country till now.The Prime Minister has held such review meetings in the past too. In the last review meeting in the end of November, PM Modi had asked officials to review plans to ease restrictions on international travel in light of global concern over Omicron, which was discovered in South Africa.The Prime Minister asked officials to be “pro-active” in light of the new variant.Also Read | We must end Covid-19 in 2022, says WHO chiefBefore the start of the winter session of Parliament, PM Modi had urged people to stay alert. He said the government's priority is the good health of the countrymen, and announced the extension of Pradhan Mantri Garib Kalyan Yojana to provide free grains and the scheme till March 2022.India’s Omicron tally reached 213 on Wednesday, according to the data released by the Union health ministry. It said that national capital Delhi now leads the tally with 57 cases, followed by Maharashtra, which has reported 54 cases of the new variant till now.The health ministry had on Tuesday alerted states and union territories about the new Covid-19 variant. It said that based on current scientific evidence, Omicron is at least three times more transmissible than the Delta variant.The ministry further added that greater foresight, data analysis, dynamic decision making and strict and prompt containment action is required at the local and district level.India, meanwhile, reported 6,317 fresh Covid-19 cases and 318 deaths in the last 24 hours, the health ministry said on Wednesday. The country's active caseload currently stands at 78,190, the lowest in 575 days.As many as 318 people succumbed to the viral infection in the last 24 hours, the ministry further said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/omicron-spread-pm-modi-to-hold-covid-19-review-meeting-on-thursday-101640155940477.html
22-12-2021||India||Massive fire at Vaishno Devi under control now: Board||A massive fire broke out at the Mata Vaishno Devi shrine forest area on Tuesday.However, the fire has been brought under control by the team of the shrine board and the forest department.Meanwhile, the yatra to the holy shrine in Trikuta hills remained unaffected, Shri Mata Vaishno Devi Shrine Board informed.As of now, no damage has been reported and the Yatra is conducted smoothly.Also, Union Minister of State Jitendra Singh tweeted "We are in touch with Shri Mata Vaishno Devi Trust management."The cause of the blaze is yet to be ascertained.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/massive-fire-at-vaishno-devi-under-control-now-board-101640151538524.html
22-12-2021||India||India's Covid-19 tally rises by 6,317; active cases stay below 80,000-mark||India's Covid-19 tally saw a jump of 6,317 on Wednesday as the new variant Omicron continued to spread across the country, according to the Union ministry of health and family welfare. The overall tally now stands at 34,758,481 including 478,325. As many as 318 people succumbed to the viral infection in the last 24 hours, it also said.The fatalities include 233 from Kerala, 30 from Goa and 14 from Maharashtra, according to the data.India's Covid-19 tally saw a jump of 6,317 on Wednesday as the new variant Omicron continued to spread across the country, according to the Union ministry of health and family welfare. The overall tally now stands at 34,758,481 including 478,325. As many as 318 people succumbed to the viral infection in the last 24 hours, it also said.The fatalities include 233 from Kerala, 30 from Goa and 14 from Maharashtra, according to the data.|#+|The overall tally also includes 213 cases of Omicron, the latest and more contagious mutation of the coronavirus. The national capital is leading the chart with 57, followed by Maharashtra (54), Telangana (24), Karnataka (19) and Rajasthan 18.Meanwhile, the active caseload in the country fell below 80,000-mark and now stands at 78,190. It is the lowest since the last 575 days, the data published by the Union ministry also showed. A decline of 907 cases has been recorded in the active Covid-19 caseload in a span of 24 hours.Presently, the active cases account for less than 1% of total cases.The recovery rate surged to the highest since March 2020 as it stood at 98.40 per cent on Wednesday. The country logged 6,906 recoveries in the last 24 hours, which has pushed the number of total recoveries to 34,201,966.The daily positivity rate was recorded at 0.51 per cent. It has been less than two per cent for the last 79 days. The weekly positivity rate was recorded at 0.58 per cent. It has been below one per cent for the last 38 days, according to the ministry.The cumulative number of doses administered in the country so far has exceeded 1.38 billion.In view of the surge in Omicron cases, the Union ministry on Tuesday released an advisory in which it asked the states and union territories to step up scrutiny of Covid-19 infection trends and consider steps like night lockdowns. The Centre also suggested bans on large gatherings if more than 10% of all tests in a week turn positive or if the occupancy of hospital beds breaches 40% of capacity.Declared as a 'variant of concern', Omicron has triggered a new wave of Covid-19 in South Africa, the UK, Denmark and several other regions.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/indias-covid-19-tally-rises-by-6-317-active-cases-stay-below-80000mark-101640151145373.html
22-12-2021||India||Centre takes note of Priyanka’s hacking charge, asks Instagram to start probe||NEW DELHI: The Union electronics and information technology ministry has taken cognisance on its own of Congress leader Priyanka Gandhi Vadra’s allegations that the Uttar Pradesh government has hacked Instagram accounts of her children. It has asked the company to probe the matter, officials familiar with the matter said on Wednesday. An investigation by the Indian Computer Emergency Response Team, the country’s top cybersecurity agency, is also likely into the matter.“The ministry has asked Instagram to investigate the allegations,” an official said on the condition of anonymity.Priyanka Gandhi on Tuesday accused the Uttar Pradesh government of the hacking days after Samajwadi Party chief Akhilesh Yadav alleged it was also tapping phones of Opposition leaders in the poll-bound state.“Leave phone tapping… The Instagram accounts of my children have also been hacked,” she told reporters when asked about accusations of phone tapping. “Does this government not have any other work.”HT reached out to Instagram for a comment but did not receive a response immediately.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/centre-takes-note-of-priyanka-s-hacking-charge-asks-instagram-to-start-probe-101640151343443.html
22-12-2021||India||PM Modi invites ideas for speech at convocation ceremony of IIT Kanpur||Ahead of his address at the convocation ceremony of the Indian Institute of Technology (IIT) Kanpur, Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Wednesday took to Twitter to invite ideas for the upcoming speech.“I look forward to being at @IITKanpur on the 28th of this month to address the convocation ceremony. This is a vibrant institution, which has pioneering contribution towards science and innovation. I invite everyone to share suggestions,” Prime Minister Modi tweeted. I look forward to being at @IITKanpur on the 28th of this month to address the convocation ceremony. This is a vibrant institution, which has made pioneering contributions towards science and innovation. I invite everyone to share suggestions. https://t.co/obpVCb0NGbThose interested in sharing suggestions can do so on narendramodi.in, PM Modi's personal website. Entries will be accepted till December 27, a day before the address.Meanwhile, the Prime Minister's forthcoming visit to the city in poll-bound Uttar Pradesh, where his Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) is in power, will also see him inaugurate phase 1 of the Kanpur Metro. The first phase spans across nine kilometres. Also Read | PM likely to inaugurate Kanpur Metro on December 28The Kanpur visit will also be his last for the year to UP, with several scheduled for next January, as the state is likely to hold assembly elections across multiple phases throughout February and March. PM Modi has, in fact, made several trips to the country's most populous state in recent months, many of which took place in December itself. On December 13 and 14, he was in Varanasi, his parliamentary constituency, where he inaugurated the first phase of the Kashi Vishwanath Corridor. Then, on December 18, he visited Shahjahanpur, where he laid the foundation stone of the Ganga Expressway.Also Read | E-way, farmers, women workers, Metro: PM Modi to visit UP 4 times this monthOn December 21, Prime Minister Modi was in Prayagraj, while December 23 will see him return to Varanasi.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/pm-modi-invites-ideas-for-speech-at-convocation-ceremony-of-iit-kanpur-101640148532964.html
22-12-2021||India||To Priyanka Gandhi's hacking allegation, IT ministry says this||The ministry of electronics and information technology has taken cognisance of Congress leader Priyanka Gandhi's allegation that the government was hacking the Instagram accounts of her children, a ministry official said to ANI on Wednesday, a day after the Congress leader brought the allegation. "Leave phone tapping… Instagram account of my children have also been hacked,” Priyanka told reporters when asked about allegations of phone tapping of opposition leaders by the government. “Does the government have no other work?" she asked on Tuesday.The allegation came after Samajwadi Party president Akhilesh Yadav claimed that the government was not only sending the income tax department to the state to target SP leaders ahead of the election, they have also been tapping his and other SP leaders' phones, Akhilesh said. On Sunday, the income tax department conducted raids at the premises of some SP leaders which, according to Akhilesh Yadav, was expected as the election is around the corner. Speaking in Lucknow, Akhilesh said, "All our phones are being tapped. This includes calls made from the SP office and of people associated with us. The CM himself listens to the recordings in the evening. This is the useless government we have. I should warn you all that if you contact me, then recordings of our conversation will also be listened to."Priyanka Gandhi's son Raihan Vadra has a verified Instagram account with 17.9K followers. On his instagram account, he mainly shares photos that he clicks.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/to-priyanka-gandhi-s-hacking-allegation-it-ministry-says-this-101640150125290.html
22-12-2021||India||India's Omicron count climbs to 213; Delhi leading with 57 cases||The total number of cases of the Omicron variant in India has climbed to 213, the Union health ministry said in a statement on Wednesday. The ministry added that 90 patients have recovered from the variant till now.Omicron has so far been detected across 15 states and Union Territories (UTs), the ministry further said.Among these, Delhi has the most number of cases at 57, followed by Maharashtra at 54, Telangana at 24 and Karnataka at 19, as per the data released by the ministry.Also Read| Amid Omicron threat, Covid R-value has gone up in these statesThe least number of Omicron cases have been reported from Andhra Pradesh, Chandigarh, Ladakh, Tamil Nadu, West Bengal- all with 1 patient infected with Omicron.New DelhiIn the national capital Delhi, the Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) led government announced on Monday that all Covid-19 positive samples will be sent for genome sequencing to track Omicron’s spread. Four private hospitals in Delhi have been converted into dedicated centres for treating patients.MaharashtraEleven more patients were found infected with the variant in Maharashtra on Tuesday. Of these, eight were from the capital city Mumbai. Navi Mumbai, on the other hand, reported its first case of Omicron on Tuesday after a 19-year-old, who travelled to Kenya, tested positive on December 18.The Maharashtra government has appealed to the state’s residents to not panic over the spread of Omicron but continue to follow all precautions such as wearing masks, social distancing and also get vaccinated against Covid-19.KarnatakaKarnataka, which is the fourth worst-hit state from Omicron across India, reported five more cases on Monday. The travel history of these five patients is unknown.To prevent the spread of the variant, chief minister Basavaraj Bommai said on Tuesday that New Year celebrations across Karnataka will take place in a restricted manner. The restrictions, which will be in place from December 30 till January 2, ban any special events. Celebrations are allowed in restaurants and clubs with 50% seating capacity and mandatory full vaccination.Also Read| Omicron: 'Activate war rooms, consider night lockdowns', Centre asks statesMeanwhile, in view of the Omicron crisis, the central government has ordered states and UTs to activate war rooms and keep analysing even the smallest trends and surges and take strict and prompt containment actions at local and district levels.Issuing a letter on Tuesday, union health secretary Rajesh Bhushan advised states to consider steps such as night curfews, strict regulation of large gatherings among others.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/indias-omicron-count-climbs-to-213-delhi-leading-with-57-cases-101640147070377.html
22-12-2021||India||Amid Omicron threat, Covid R-value has gone up in these states. What does this mean?||In the last one month, the R-value of Covid infection has gone up considerably in several states. In some states, the value went down and then again picked up from the last week of November. R-value of the infection is of much importance for scientists and epidemiologists. It indicated the transmissibility of the virus. If the R-value in a state is 1, it means one Covid infected person can spread the infection to another person. A value less than 1 means one infected person can spread the infection to less than one person, and a value greater than 1 indicated that one infected person can spread the infection to more than one person, which is of great concern.Omicron: 'Activate war rooms, consider night lockdowns', Centre asks statesThe increase in the R-value comes amid the Omicron threat in India. Believed to be more contagious than Delta and other previous variants, Omicron is spreading rapidly, though the new variant is not causing severe diseases. At present, there are 213 Omicron cases in India, with Delhi topping the chart with 57 cases. Delhi is followed by Maharashtra with 54 cases and Telangana with 24 cases.Here is the state-wise status of Omicron cases in India Here is the comparison of R value in states Analysing the R-value chart, epidemiologist Dr Giridhar Babu tweeted that states that have recorded an increase in the R-value are Bihar, Madhya Pradesh, Maharashtra, Uttarakhand, Tripura, Tamil Nadu, Assam, Odisha, Mizoram, Arunachal Pradesh, West Bengal, Manipur and Nagaland. States with an increase in the RT values on December 19th as compared to Dec 13th are Bihar, Madhya Pradesh, Maharashtra, Uttarakhand, Tripura, Tamil Nadu, Assam, Odisha, Mizoram, Arunachal Pradesh, West Bengal, Manipur & Nagaland. India’s effective RT is 0.89 as on Dec 19. pic.twitter.com/P2Vh5IviM4As on December 19, India's effective R-value was 0.89. On November 2, India's R-value was 0.8 which increased to 0.97 on November 29.Eight states, including Bihar, Uttar Pradesh, Gujarat, Madhya Pradesh, Maharashtra, Haryana, Uttarakhand and Telangana, have an R-value of 1 and above. This indicates that the infection is spreading rapidly in these states.The Centre has warned all states and Union territories to start preparing to fight Omicron on a war footing as Omicron is at least thrice more transmissible than Delta. According to experts, the variant is unlikely to lead to any oxygen crisis like what happened during the second wave, but because of its high transmissibility, infections will spread.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/amid-omciron-threat-covid-r-value-has-gone-up-in-these-states-101640148520228.html
22-12-2021||India||India: Will Covid pose more problems in 2022?||India battled a devastating second coronavirus wave earlier this year and is now seeing a rise in omicron cases. Experts hope the new variant will prove less lethal, but warn against complacency.India's devastating second wave of COVID-19 earlier this year brought the nation's health care system to its knees.At the height of the wave in April and May, the daily number of new infections often exceeded 400,000, overwhelming the country's health care infrastructure, which struggled with acute shortages of hospital beds, critical medicines and equipment.Many patients died outside hospitals because of the lack of beds and medical oxygen."It was almost like Dante's inferno. A numbed population watched in horror for more than a month at the shortage of hospital beds, the fires of crematoria burning day and night, doctors begging for oxygen, patients suffocating outside hospital gates, and decomposing bodies floating in the River Ganges," Aman Lal, a crematorium caretaker, told DW.Rising concerns over omicronOver the past couple of weeks, concerns over the prospect of a third wave of infections have grown, with the detection and spread of the new omicron variant worldwide.India has so far recorded about 200 omicron cases across 12 states, mostly in the western state of Maharashtra and the nation's capital New Delhi, the Health Ministry said on Tuesday.The country's tally of omicron cases has nearly doubled within a week, but there have been no deaths reported so far. In less than 40% of cases, patients either fully recovered or were discharged, the data showed.Virologists and scientists say there will be an increase in infections in India over the coming weeks and months. Nevertheless, they believe the new variant could be less lethal than the last delta wave because of widespread previous infections and vaccinations in the South Asian nation.No room for complacencyVineeta Bal, an immunologist at the Pune-based Indian Institute of Science Education and Research, believes another serious COVID-related crisis may not come India's way even though infections could go up."Vaccination, some improvements in health infrastructure, partial but continued use of masking and omicron as a possibly more infectious but less virulent strain will contribute to a less devastating situation than what we saw in 2021," Bal told DW.Still, experts warn that there is no room for complacency. "A small percentage of a large number can be huge. However, the pre-existing immunity due to vaccination and prior infection should help reduce the impact. Unvaccinated and older people could still be affected more severely," Soumya Swaminathan, the World Health Organization's chief scientist, told DW."What we should be looking towards is making this another manageable respiratory infection which does not disrupt our lives," she added."Rather than focusing on the absolute number of cases reported daily, we need to track severe cases, hospitalizations and deaths closely. And we need to analyze breakthrough infections by age and by vaccination status to look for waning immunity," Swaminathan underlined.Mask-wearing declines as infections dropThe number of new infections recorded in India has been on the decline over the past few weeks.The South Asian country registered 5,326 new COVID-19 infections in the past 24 hours, the lowest such tally in the country in more than one and a half years.Overall, the country has reported 34.75 million cases, the second-highest in the world after the United States.Government surveys have estimated that nearly 70% of Indians had been naturally infected by July, following a record rise in infections and deaths in April and May.With the drop in new infections, mask-wearing in public has fallen to levels last seen in March, before the second wave of cases, data from the Institute of Health Metrics and Evaluation shows.Current mask-wearing is estimated at 59%, nearly the same as in March, having peaked at 81% in May.But amid growing fears of potential surges in infections, health authorities have been urging people to use face coverings in public.No booster shots yetAuthorities have also been accelerating the vaccination campaign, with at least one vaccine shot given to about 87% of the nation's eligible 944 million adults while around 58% have received two doses.India has not considered authorizing booster doses yet, as many in the country have been naturally infected and the government believes two vaccine doses offer sufficient protection for now, Reuters news agency reported late last month."A booster protects a person further from symptomatic infection. While we await local data, let us not delay preparing for boosters and vaccinating children as global data shows that people with prior infection with other variants have minimal capacity to neutralize omicron," virologist Shahid Jameel told DW.India better prepared now than during the second wave?Gautam Menon, a professor of physics and biology at Ashoka University, believes India is better prepared overall to face a new wave of infections, in terms of knowing where its deficiencies lie and what to address first."The positive is that, compared to the second wave, any third wave will hit a population that is expected to have substantial hybrid immunity, from infections during the delta wave and vaccinations," Menon said.The expert added that the government should make the relevant epidemiological data available widely, particularly with regard to testing, disease severity and patients' prior medical conditions, among other things."Data is a public good and measures can be made faster and better if more integrated data is made available. We will be flying blind into the storm otherwise," Menon said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/india-will-covid-pose-more-problems-in-2022-101640147485125.html
22-12-2021||India||Delhi's 1st Omicron patient talks about symptoms, treatment, past Covid case||Delhi's first case of Omicron, a 37-year-old man from Ranchi, Sahil Thakur has been discharged from the hospital as he is on his way to recovery. At present, he is under home isolation following which he will be under 14-day observation at home. A couple of security personnel have been posted outside his house to keep a watch, ensuring that there is no movement. "I have been told that I will be under 14-day observation at home, and doctors will check on me intermittently," Sahil Thakur told news agency PTI. He was detected with this latest variant of SARS-CoV-2 on December 5, three days after India's first Omicron cases were reported. He had travelled to Dubai for some business work and flew back to Delhi on December 4.Delhi doctor gives insight into health of Omicron patients, oxygen and ICU need"We were asked to fill out e-Suvidha forms, and passengers were being randomly tested then, unlike everyone being tested now. And, I was not tested on arrival at the airport, so I walked out. Plus, I had no symptoms, cough, sore throat or temperature. So, I just went home and isolated myself in a room as a precaution," he said."But, I had to fly to Bombay on December 7, so, I got myself tested for Covid before undertaking my journey. I tested positive for Covid on December 6, so my travel plan was cancelled, and two days later, I was informed by authorities that I was positive with Omicron variant," Thakur told PTI.Thakur was allowed to stay under home isolation till December 11 and then an ambulance came to take him to LNJP Hospital.Like most of the Omicron cases across the world, Thakur did not have any symptoms. In fact, this is not the first time that he got Covid. During the first wave too, he was infected, he said. "I really got lucky. This is a highly transmissible variant, but my parents got tested and they came negative, plus a few other people I had come in contact with, also got themselves tested, and came negative. And, right now, we all have to be very careful," he said.The businessman stays in Rohini with his parents and domestic help. There are three to four police personnel keeping a watch outside his house, he said. "They are very courteous, and also provide us with daily essential items, as none of us can go out till the restrictions are in place. Even after the home isolation restrictions are lifted, maybe after 3-4 days, I have been told, I will be under observation for 14 days, at home, and doctors will check on me intermittently," he said.(With PTI Inputs)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/delhis-1st-omicron-patient-talks-about-symptoms-treatment-past-covid-case-101640144358020.html
22-12-2021||India||4 held in Chhattisgarh for allegedly trying to convert tribals to Christianity||RAIPUR: The Chhattisgarh Police have arrested a priest and three pastors for allegedly trying to convert some people to Christianity in the state’s Jashpur district, an officer said.Police superintendent Vijay Agarwal said the four have been booked under Chhattisgarh’s anti-conversion law as well as the Indian Penal Code’s Sections 295 A (deliberate and malicious acts, intended to outrage religious feelings of any class by insulting religion or religious beliefs) and 34 (common intention).“The accused, Father Arun Kujur and Pastors Basant Lakra, Salmon Tigga, and Dino Kujur, were arrested on a complaint of a tribal committee.” He added the four on Sunday and Monday allegedly tried to convert some tribals to Christianity.Agarwal said Laku Ram, a tribal head, stopped the alleged conversion and filed a police complaint. “I sent a team of police with the local teshildar there and then a case was registered,” said Agarwal. 
22-12-2021||NA||Parliament LIVE: Winter session ends as both houses adjourned sine die ahead of schedule||The ongoing winter session of Parliament, which commenced on November 29, ended on Wednesday, a day before its scheduled conclusion on December 23.Also Read | Winter session of Parliament likely to conclude todayOn Tuesday, the Rajya Sabha passed, through a voice vote and amid opposition protests, the bill to link Aadhaar with voter ID, a day after the reform was approved in the Lok Sabha.Also Read | Electoral reform bill to link Aadhaar, Voter ID gets Rajya Sabha approvalThe Lower House, on the other hand, witnessed a heated discussion on the bill which aims to raise the minimum marriageable age, from the current 18 to 21, for women. The legislation, which was introduced on Monday, was then sent to a parliamentary committee for scrutiny.Follow all the updates here:Winter session concludes, but suspended MPs continue protestSuspended Rajya Sabha MPs, along with Opposition leaders, including LoP Mallikarjun Kharge, read the Preamble to the Constitution of India and recite the national anthem before the Mahatma Gandhi statue in Parliament to protest against the suspension.Covid-19 discussed for over 12 hours during winter session, says LS Speaker99 MPs participated in the 12 hour, 26 minutes long discussion on Covid-19, in which they shared with the House the best work done in their respective areas during the Covid-19 period: Om Birla, Lok Sabha SpeakerAs winter session ends, RS Chairman expresses ‘unhappiness’Winter session of the august House concludes today. I'm not happy to share with you that House functioned much below its potential. I urged all of you to collectively and individually reflect & introspect if this session could have been different and better: M Venkaiah Naidu, Rajya Sabha Chairman‘Lok Sabha, Rajya Sabha registered 82% and 47% productivity’Lok Sabha registered 82% productivity while Rajya Sabha witnessed 47% productivity in the Winter session of the Parliament: Pralhad Joshi, Union parliamentary affairs ministerBoth Houses adjourned sine dieParliament's winter session concludes, as both houses adjourned sine die, day ahead of scheduled closure.Govt ‘deliberately’ suspended 12 MPs, says Mallikarjun KhargeGovt deliberately suspended the 12 Rajya Sabha MPs so that the bills could be passed easily. We requested them to revoke suspension so that the House can run smoothly but they refused: Mallikarjun Kharge, Leader of Opposition, Rajya SabhaPM Modi holds meet with senior ministersPM Narendra Modi holds meeting with senior ministers in Parliament to discuss various issues and government strategy. TMC's Derek O'Brien to protest with 12 suspended Rajya Sabha MPsTMC's Derek O'Brien, who was suspended for the remainder of the winter session on Tuesday, will today protest alongside 12 fellow Rajya Sabha MPs who were, at the beginning of the session, suspended till its conclusion.Congress seeks resignation of MoS Ajay Mishra ‘Teni’Lok Sabha MP Manickam Tagore moves adjournment motion in House seeking resignation of MoS (Home) Ajay Mishra ‘Teni’ in connection with Lakhimpur Kheri violence case.Winter session likely to end todayParliament's ongoing winter session, which began on November 29, is likely to be adjourned sine die today, a day before schedule.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/parliament-winter-session-2021-live-updates-22-december-2021-101640142121431.html
22-12-2021||India||News updates from HT: Winter session of Parliament likely to conclude today, and all the latest news||Here are today’s top news, analysis, and opinion at 9am. Know all about the latest news and other news updates from Hindustan Times.Winter session of Parliament likely to conclude todayWith the government completing most of its legislative agenda, there is a likelihood that Parliament could be adjourned sine die on Wednesday. Read moreRailway engineer in Bihar tries to sell vintage steam engine as scrap, suspendedA railway engineer in Bihar was suspended on Tuesday after he tried to illegally sell a vintage steam engine as ‘scrap’. An FIR was also registered against the engineer Rajiv Ranjan Jha and six other persons in Purnia district. Read more‘I made him my obsession for 6 months. Realised I got to him’: Ashwin’s planning that went behind his duels with SmithSpeaking on how he prepared himself for India's previous tour to Australia and particularly Steve Smith, Ashwin remarked that he made the former Australia captain as his "obsession for about six months". Read moreSara Ali Khan recalls worst criticism she got for Love Aaj Kal: ‘That was pretty rude’On Koffee Shots With Karan, Sara Ali Khan talked about the worst criticism she ever got. She also gave a piece of advice to Taimur and Ibrahim about entering the film industry. Read moreAlia Bhatt wins fashion game in dreamy nude bralette-pants with cape jacket for film promotion: All picsThe 28-year-old actor, busy promoting her films Brahmastra and RRR, delighted netizens when new pictures of her in a dreamy nude attire made it online. Read moreJ&K: Pak Rangers stop construction near LoC after Indian Army's stern warningPakistan reportedly halted construction activity after the Indian Army warned of action near the Line of Control in J&K's Kupwara. The Indian Army used loudspeakers to warn Pakistan Rangers of action if the construction was not stopped in Teetwal sector of Kupwara. Watch||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/news-updates-from-ht-winter-session-of-parliament-likely-to-conclude-today-and-all-the-latest-news-101640141082532.html
22-12-2021||India||AQI 'very poor' in Delhi, slips to 'critical' in Noida: Check details||Delhi continued to experience a high level of pollution as its air quality index (AQI) remained in the ‘very poor’ category on Wednesday morning. According to System of Air Quality and Weather Forecasting And Research (SAFAR), the national capital’s AQI was 385.Noida, meanwhile, saw its air quality slipping to ‘critical’ category, with an AQI of 507, according to SAFAR. Other cities in the National Capital Region (NCR) also felt the experience of pollution, with Gurugram recording an AQI of 319 - categorised as ‘very poor’ according to SAFAR.On Tuesday, Delhi’s air quality deteriorated to 402, in the severe zone. On Monday, the average 24-hour AQI was 332, in the ‘very poor’ category.As per the government agencies, an AQI between zero and 50 is considered 'good', 51 and 100 'satisfactory', 101 and 200 'moderate', 201 and 300 'poor', 301 and 400 'very poor', and 401 and 500 'severe'.Delhi environment minister Gopal Rai on Saturday informed that separate night patrols teams have been set up for each of the 11 districts of the national capital to monitor compliance to pollution control norms for construction-related activities.Also Read | Construction ban over but dust control a priority, says Delhi minister Gopal RaiThe physical classes in Delhi school will resume for Class 5 and below from December 27 after being shut down for nearly a month because of air pollution.The Commission for Air Quality Management (CAQM) in Delhi-NCR and adjoining areas had on Friday allowed schools and other educational institutions to be reopened in a phased manner.The decision was welcomed by school principals, parents and experts, who have rued how the long break in physical classes due to the Covid-19 pandemic, and the frequent closures after that because of pollution have not just impacted learning levels but even led to complaints of mental health problems among children.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/delhi-aqi-very-poor-noida-slips-to-critical-details-about-air-pollution-101640142402479.html
22-12-2021||India||Railway engineer in Bihar tries to sell vintage steam engine as scrap, suspended||A railway engineer in Bihar was suspended on Tuesday after he tried to illegally sell a vintage steam engine as ‘scrap’. An FIR was also registered against the engineer Rajiv Ranjan Jha and six other persons in Purnia district.AK Lal, the divisional security commissioner at Samastipur Railway division, told news agency ANI that a team was formed to arrest the accused and recover the material.Alok Agrawal, DRM of Samastipur Division under East Central Railway said strict action will be taken against the accused. “It's is an exceptional case, railway works on trust but someone broke it,” he was quoted as saying by ANI.The matter involves a metre gauge engine stationed in Purnia for public display which Jha was caught trying to get dismantled on December 14 with a gas cutter with the help of one Sushil Yadav.When a sub-inspector deployed at the RPF outpost, M M Rehman, came to enquire, the engineer brandished a letter claiming that the Divisional Mechanical Engineer had ordered that scrap material from the engine be taken to the diesel locomotive shed nearby.Jha also wrote a memo confirming the same to Rehman before leaving the spot with scrap material laden on a pick up van.The lid was blown off the racket a day later when RPF personnel Sangita brought to the notice of her superiors that the scrap had not reached the diesel shed.Further investigation revealed that no order for transportation of scrap had been issued and the letter which Jha was armed with, was fake.The police are still trying to trace the material.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/railway-engineer-in-bihar-tries-to-sell-vintage-steam-engine-as-scrap-suspended-101640140412763.html
22-12-2021||India||With addition of extra day to its schedule, Tejas Express departs Ahmedabad for Mumbai||The Ahmedabad Junction-Mumbai Central Tejas Express on December 22 added Wednesday to the list of days that it is in service on, as it departed Gujarat's largest city for the country's financial capital at 6:41am, a minute behind its scheduled departure time.With the addition of Wednesday to its schedule, the in-demand train will now be in service five days a week, with Monday, Friday, Saturday and Sunday being the four other days on which it is in operation.“The frequency of Mumbai Central–Ahmedabad Tejas Express also increased from 4 days in a week to 5 days in a week. This train will now also run on Wednesdays with effect from 22nd December, 2021, in addition to other days of service viz. Friday, Saturday, Sunday & Monday,” the Western Railway shared on Twitter, last Sunday. The frequency of Mumbai Central – Ahmedabad Tejas Express also increased from 4 days in a week to 5 days in a week. This train will now also run on Wednesdays with effect from 22nd December, 2021, in addition to other days of service viz. Friday, Saturday, Sunday & Monday.In addition to this, keeping in mind the convenience of passengers, and to meet the travel demand, an additional AC Chair Car coach has also been installed in the Ahmedabad-Mumbai Central Tejas, as announced by the Western Railway, also on December 19.
22-12-2021||India||Winter session of Parliament likely to conclude today||The Winter session of Parliament is likely to conclude on Wednesday, a day before the schedule, news agency PTI has reported. The session had commenced on November 29 and was scheduled to end on December 23.With the government completing most of its legislative agenda, there is a likelihood that Parliament could be adjourned sine die on Wednesday, the news agency reported quoting sources.The report comes a day after a bill to link electoral roll data with Aadhaar was passed by Parliament on Tuesday. The opposition also staged a walkout to mark their protest against the bill, while high drama broking out in Rajya Sabha after Trinamool Congress (TMC) leader Derek O'Brien flung a rulebook at the reporters' table after which he was suspended from the House for "unruly behaviour."The Election Laws (Amendment) Bill, 2021 that was now been passed by both houses of Parliament, seeks to weed out duplication from electoral rolls to make the process more credible.It was passed amid protests by the opposition parties who were in well, shouting slogans throughout. The opposition leaders then staged a walkout as their demand for sending the Bill to a Select Committee was rejected.The bill was passed after an hour-long discussion with members of several parties supporting the bill.Since the beginning of the session on November 29, Parliament has been seeing constant disruption and adjournment as Rajya Sabha chairman Venkaiah Naidu suspended 12 MPs for their unruly behaviour during the monsoon session. Since then, the suspended MPs have been staging a protest near the Gandhi statue at the Parliament premise every day.Some opposition members have also been creating ruckus inside the house and are demanding the government to revoke the suspension.The suspended members comprise six from the Congress - Phulo Devi Netam, Chhaya Verma, Ripun Bora, Rajamani Patel, Syed Nasir Hussain and Akhilesh Prasad Singh. It also includes two from Trinamool Congress (Dola Sen, Shanta Chhetri), two from Shiv Sena (Priyanka Chaturvedi, Anil Desai) and one each from CPI (Binoy Viswam) and CPM (Elamaram Kareem).In August, marshals were called at the upper house of Parliament after Opposition members stormed the Well of the House during the passage of the General Insurance Business (Nationalisation) Amendment Bill, 2021.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/winter-session-of-parliament-likely-to-conclude-today-101640134893820.html
22-12-2021||NA||Breaking highlights: Gujarat reports 9 more Omicron cases, state's tally reaches 23, reports ANI||Welcome to hindustantimes.com live updates platform where you can find breaking news from India and across the world. Find fast updates about the latest news as it breaks.Follow all the updates here:Gujarat reports 9 more Omicron cases, state's tally reaches 23Gujarat has reported 9 more cases of Omicron, taking state's tally of infections from the new variant of Coronavirus to 23.US health regulator authorises Pfizer's Covid-19 pillUS health regulator authorises Pfizer's Covid-19 pill, reports AFP.UK reports record 106,122 Covid-19 cases in 24 hoursGreat Britain has reported yet another record 106,122 Covid-19 cases in 24 hours, AFP reported.Telangana records 14 more Omicron cases, tally shoots up to 38Telangana on Wednesday recorded as many as 14 more cases of Omicron Covid-19 variant. With this, the southern state's cumulative tally went up to 38.Uttarakhand reports first Omicron caseUttarakhand reports first case of Omicron variant of Covid-19 after a 23-year-old woman, who had returned from Scotland, tested positive.Haryana brings down minimum age to consume liquor to 21 from 25Haryana brings down minimum age to consume liquor to 21 from 25, ANI reported citing the government.Mercury levels dip in Shillong in Meghalaya, and Tawang in ArunachalArunachal Pradesh: Tawang covered in a blanket of snow. As per IMD's forecast, Tawang is likely to experience a minimum temperature of -2 degrees Celsius tomorrow with rain or snow. pic.twitter.com/qcuMtCrSWrHailstorm and snowfall both happened in Shillong, while Tawang received fresh spells of snow.Maharashtra records 1,201 new Covid cases amid Omicron spreadMaharashtra on Wednesday recorded 1,201 new cases of Covid-19 today, making it the first time single-day caseload has surpassed the 1000-mark since November 17.Haryana reports two Omicron casesHaryana reported two Omicron cases on Wednesday, after a 33-year-old man with travel history to Portugal, tested positive for the new variant of Covid-19 in Karnal and another with travel history to Canada tested positive in Faridabad.Police officer shot at by terrorists succumbs to injuries in J&KAssistant sub inspector (ASI) Mohammad Ashraf succumbed to his injuries after being shot at by terrorists in sub-district hospital, Bijbehara in Jammu and Kashmir's (J&K) Anantnag district, police has tweeted now.Kerala reports 9 more Omicron cases, state tally now at 24Kerala reports 9 more Omicron cases, state's tally now at 24, ANI reported.Civilian shot dead by terrorists in Srinagar's Eidgah areaCivilian shot dead by terrorists in Srinagar's Eidgah area. The deceased has been identified as Rouf Ahmad of Nawakadal. Moreover, an assistant sub inspector, identified as Mohammad Ashraf, was also shot at in sub-district hospital, Bijbehara.Punjab govt staff won't get salary without Covid vaccine certificatesThe finance department of Punjab government has asked their staff to update their Covid-19 vaccination status on the Integrated Human Resource Management System (iHRMS) portal, failing to do which will result in them not getting their salaries.Delhi sees another big single-day Covid cases jump with 125 infectionsDelhi reports yet another massive single-day Covid-19 caseload with 125 infections. This comes as Omicron cases in the national capital stands at 54. Read here.Delhi govt bans Christmas, New Year gatherings as Omicron cases riseThe Delhi Disaster Management Authority (DDMA) has banned all gatherings ahead of Christmas and New Year in wake of rising Omicron cases in the city, ANI reported. Notably, the national capital has so far confirmed 54 cases of the Omicron variant of Covid-19.Anti-conversion bill to be taken up for discussion in K'taka assembly tomorrow at 10amThe discussion on anti-conversion bill in Karnataka assembly will be taken up tomorrow (December 23) at 10am, ANI reported quoting Speaker Vishweshwar Hegde Kageri.Mumbai police yet to submit enquiry report on drugs-on-cruise caseA senior officer of Mumbai Police on Wednesday said that the special enquiry team (SET) it had formed to probe the drugs-on-cruise case, is awaiting some documents and is yet to submit the enquiry report. However, the officer said the enquiry is not halted yet.Haryana to impose curbs in public places to partially vaccinated from Jan 1 onwardsHaryana health minister Anil Vij told the state assembly on Wednesday that the state government has decided to restrict access in public places such as restaurants, offices, and public transport, among others, from January 1 onwards to people, who are not fully vaccinated with both doses of Covid-19 vaccines.Sputnik V shows neutralising activity against Omicron: Gamaleya Center's prelim lab studyThe Gamaleya Center’s preliminary laboratory study reveals that Russian Covid-19 vaccine Sputnik V demonstrates high virus neutralising activity (VNA) against Omicron variant, and is expected to give a strong defense against severe disease and hospitalisation, ANI reported.No Omicron in Haryana till now, over 3 crore vaccine jabs givenHaryana health minister Anil Vij said that till now, no Omicron case has been detected in Haryana, and the state government is geared up to “combat the spread of Omicron variant” along with any surge in the number of Covid-19 infections, according to ANI. “ [As many as] 3,11,86,292 vaccine doses administered till December 19 in the state,” he added.AIIMS director Dr Randeep Guleria's fresh warning amid Omicron rise in IndiaA day after the Centre wrote to all states and Union Territories to prepare for the battle against Omicron on a war footing, AIIMS Delhi director Dr Randeep Guleria said vaccine and Covid-appropriate behaviour are the only two ways to counter the increasing spread of the new variant. Read moreSecond Omicron case detected in Andhra PradeshA 39-year-old woman who came from Kenya to Chennai, and then travelled to Tirupati, tested positive for Covid on Dec 12. Her sample sent for genome sequencing declared Omicron positive today. Her family members tested negative: State govtPM Modi to chair Covid-19 review meeting on ThursdayPrime Minister Narendra Modi to hold a meeting to review the Covid-19 related situation in the country tomorrow, reports ANI citing sources.At least 70 missing in Myanmar after landslideAt least 70 missing after landslide at Myanmar jade mine, reports news agency AFP citing rescue team. "About 70-100 people are missing in a landslide that happened around 4:00am" at Hpakant mine in Kachin state, said rescue team member Ko Ny, according to the report.Two earthquakes hit Karnataka districtTwo earthquakes of magnitude 2.9 and 3.0 were recorded in Chikkaballapura District today morning, says Karnataka State Natural Disaster Monitoring Centre. India's Omicron count climbs to 213India's Omicron count climbed to 213 on Wednesday with Delhi leading with 57 cases, says health ministry.India's daily Covid tally climbs again with 6,317 new cases; new fatalities down by 318India's daily Covid-19 tally saw a rise of 6,317 as it reached 3,47,58,481. Sony, Zee sign definitive merger agreement amid shareholder spatZee Entertainment Enterprises Ltd., India’s largest listed television network, approved a merger agreement with Sony Group Corp.’s local unit amid a complicated boardroom and courtroom feud between Zee’s founders and its largest shareholder. Read MoreWinter session of Parliament likely to conclude todayThe Winter session of Parliament is likely to conclude on Wednesday, a day before the schedule, news agency PTI has reported. The session had commenced on November 29 and was scheduled to end on December 23. Read moreFire at vaishno Devi shrine area under control: BoardA massive fire that broke out in Vaishno Devi Shrine forest area on Tuesday has been brought under control. The yatra to the temple remained unaffected, says Shri Mata Vaishno Devi Shrine Board.India blocks 20 YouTube channels linked to ‘Pak disinformation campaign’The ministry of information and broadcasting (I&B) on Tuesday said it has ordered the blocking of two Kashmir-related websites and 20 YouTube channels as they “belong to a coordinated disinformation network operating from Pakistan”.‘Anti-national’ not defined in Statutes, Govt tells ParliamentThe home ministry told Parliament on Tuesday that there is no legal definition for the term “anti-national”, though there is criminal legislation and various judicial pronouncements to deal with activities that are a threat to the country. Read more||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/breaking-news-live-december-22-2021-101640134317703.html
22-12-2021||India||Online gaming: Karnataka high court to hear case today for disposal. All you need to know||The Karnataka high court on Wednesday is expected to dispose of the petitions filed against the state’s new law, which seeks to regulate all formats of online gaming. Six companies and industry bodies have moved the high court against the Karnataka Police (Amendment) Compliance Act, 2021, which makes all forms of gambling, including online, a cognisable and non-bailable offenceThe petitioners are: All Indian Gaming Federation (AIGF), Mobile Premier League, Games24x7, Gameskraft, Head Digital Works Private Ltd, and Junglee Games.The case will be heard by a bench of Chief Justice Ritu Raj Awasthi and Justice Krishna S Dixit.What is the issue?A number of companies, which hold online fantasy sports and rummy, argue that the games which require skills have been clubbed along with games of chance in the definition of gaming.Their arguments have been successfully accepted by the high courts in Tamil Nadu and Kerala, where the companies cited a law laid down by the Supreme Court in 1957 that competitive games of skill are business activities protected under the sub-sections of Article 19 of the Constitution.When was the law passed by Karnataka?The Karnataka Police (Amendment) Compliance Act, 2021, was passed by the state legislature in September this year and notified on October 5.Which other states have banned online gaming?Telangana, Andhra Pradesh, Assam, Odisha, Nagaland and Sikkim have banned online rummy. However, the Madras high court, in August this year, quashed the state government’s ban on online rummy, holding that it requires skills and cannot be considered as gambling.The Kerala high court too, in September, struck down an amendment which imposed a ban on online rummy.How big is the online gaming industry?According to the All-India Gaming Federation Report, the sector touched $1 billion in 2020. The report was prepared along with Ernst and Young.It is expected to reach $2 billion by 2023, the report further said.Concerns around online gamingEarlier this month, Rajya Sabha member and senior Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) leader Sushil Kumar Modi demanded on the floor of the House that the government should regulate the online gaming industry and impose a uniform tax on it.Raising the issue during the Zero Hour, Modi said that these online games have now given way to gambling and betting.During the pre-Covid period, the BJP leader said, the weekly time spent on mobile gaming was 2.5 hours, while 11 per cent of total smartphone time was spent on gaming. However, during lockdown, the gaming time has increased to four hours.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/online-gaming-karnataka-high-court-to-hear-case-today-for-disposal-101640130320592.html
22-12-2021||India||Instagram row: Actor Kangana Ranaut to appear before Mumbai Police today||Actor Kangana Ranaut will appear before the Mumbai Police on December 22 in connection with an FIR registered against her for an Instagram post she made on the farmers’ protest. An FIR was registered against Ranaut at Khar police station for allegedly hurting the sentiments of the Sikh community.The FIR was registered on November 23 on the complaint of Mulund resident Amarjeetsingh Sandhu, along with the leaders of the Delhi Sikh Gurdwara Management Committee (DSGMC) and the Shiromani Akali Dal (SAD). Ranaut had made the post on November 21.On the basis of the complaint, Khar police booked Ranaut under section 295A of the Indian Penal Code (IPC), which pertains to deliberate and malicious acts intended to outrage religious feelings of any class of people by insulting its religion or religious beliefs.Ranaut moved the Bombay high court, seeking that the FIR be quashed. During the hearing on December 13, the court asked Ranaut if she will appear before the police to which she agreed.After her assurance, court posted the matter for further hearing on January 25. The Maharashtra government too told the court that no coercive action against her till then.Recently, a petition was also been filed in the Supreme court against Ranaut seeking censoring of all her social media posts in future in order to maintain law and order in the country.None of her posts on social media should be allowed without amendment, deletion, modification or censoring in order to maintain law and order in the country, stated advocate Charanjeet Singh Chanderpal in the plea.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/instagram-row-actor-kangana-ranaut-to-appear-before-mumbai-police-today-101640129967074.html
22-12-2021||India||National Mathematics Day: Celebrating Srinivasa Ramanujan's birthday||India is celebrating the birthday of legendary mathematician Srinivasa Ramanujan Aiyangar on Wednesday (December 22). The day is celebrated as National Mathematics Day or Maths Day.Ramanujan was a prodigious Indian mathematician who, despite having no formal training in advanced mathematical concepts, mastered trigonometry at the age of 12 and went on to make great contributions to mathematical concepts such as number theory, infinite series and continued fractions.He was born on December 22, 1887, in Tamil Nadu’s Erode. Ramanujan had enrolled in Madras’ Pachaiyappa College at the age of 14.Ramanujan was working at Madras Port Trust in 1912 where his prowess was recognised by some of his co-workers, one of whom referred him to professor GH Hardy of Trinity College, Cambridge University. He met Hardy in 1913, a year after which he went to Trinity College where he honed his craft under the Englishman’s tutelage.He received his degree from Cambridge in 1916 and went on to publish several brilliant papers on his subject with Hardy’s help.Last year, Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) leader Ramesh Pokhriyal ‘Nishank’ wrote a piece in Hindustan Times in which he called Ramanujan the “epitome of mathematical excellence”.History of National Mathematics DayFormer Prime Minister Manmohan Singh had in 2012 announced December 22 as National Mathematics Day, while paying tribute to Ramanujan in Chennai.Since then, the day is celebrated as National Mathematics Day every year.Ramanujan’s influence on popular cultureThe mathematician has always fascinated the world by his theorems and other achievements.The life of this exceptionally gifted mathematician was portrayed by British-Indian actor Dev Patel in 2015 film ‘The Man Who Knew Infinity’. It explores the beautiful friendship between Ramanujan and Hardy, and sheds light on his childhood in India.Ramanujan died at the young age of 32 owing to deteriorating health on April 26, 1920.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/national-mathematics-day-celebrating-srinivasa-ramanujan-s-birthday-101640129679032.html
22-12-2021||India||India has ‘holy cows’ grazing everywhere, says Madras HC, calls for 'duty to laugh'||India has “holy cows” grazing from Varanasi in Uttar Pradesh to Vadipatti in Tamil Nadu and one dare not poke fun at them, the Madras High Court has said, adding that the Constitution would probably do with an amendment for “duty to laugh”.All over the country, national security happens to be the “ultimate holy cow,” a bench comprising Justice G R Swaminathan said.The court’s observation came while quashing a first information report (FIR) filed by Tamil Nadu Police against one Mathivanan over a Facebook post of photos with an accompanying caption “Trip to Sirumalai for shooting practice,” apparently written in a lighter vein.Invoking well-known satirists, cartoonists and journalists like Jug Suraiya, Bachi Karkaria, E P Unny and G Sampath in his judgment, Justice Swaminathan said: “They would have proposed a momentous amendment to the Constitution of India to incorporate sub-clause (l) in Article 51-A.” The section deals with duties related to abiding by the Constitution and uphold and protect the sovereignty, unity and integrity of India among others.“To this, the hypothetical author would have added one more fundamental duty- duty to laugh. The correlative right to be funny can be mined in Article 19 (1) (a) of the Constitution of India (the use of crypto vocabulary to be forgiven),” the judge noted. The judge noted that the petitioner “tried to be funny” but “Vadipatty Police did not find it to be a joke”. “Any normal and reasonable person coming across the Facebook post would have laughed it off,” he said. The court also observed that being funny is one thing and poking fun at another is different altogether. “Laugh at what is a serious question. This is because we have holy cows grazing all over from Varanasi to Vadipatty. One dare not poke fun at them. There is however no single catalogue of holy cows. It varies from person to person and from region to region,” the judge said.“A real cow, even if terribly underfed and emaciated, shall be holy in Yogi’s terrain. In West Bengal, Tagore is such an iconic figure that Khushwant Singh learnt the lesson at some cost. Coming to my own Tamil Desh, the all-time iconoclast ‘Periyar’ Shri E V Ramasamy is a super-holy cow. In today’s Kerala, Marx and Lenin are beyond the bounds of criticism or satire. Chhatrapati Shivaji and Veer Savarkar enjoy a similar immunity in Maharashtra. But all over India, there is one ultimate holy cow and that is national security,” he added. Petitioner Mathivanan, an office-bearer of CPI (ML), had sought quashing the FIR registered by Vadipatti police in Madurai over his Facebook post that carried his pictures of a visit to Siruamalai with the caption in Tamil-- “Thuppakki Payirchikaga Sirumalai Payanam,” translating to “Trip to Sirumalai for shooting practice.” “The petitioner herein is an important office-bearer of a not-so-important political party. CPI (ML) is now an over-ground organization which contests elections also. Paper warriors are also entitled to fantasise that they are swadeshi Che Guevaras,” the judge said. “Revolutionaries, whether real or phoney, are not usually credited with any sense of humour (or at least this is the stereotype). For a change, the petitioner tried to be funny. Perhaps it was his maiden attempt at humour,” the judge said.But the police did not “find it to be a joke” and booked him under different sections of IPC, including collecting arms with intention of waging war against the Government of India and criminal intimidation by an anonymous communication (IPC 507), the judge pointed out.He said invoking IPC Section 507 “makes me laugh.” “Section 507 IPC can be invoked only if the person sending the communication had concealed his identity. The communication must be anonymous. In this case, the petitioner had posted the photographs along with the caption in his Facebook page. He has not concealed his identity. There is nothing anonymous about the act in question,” he said.In fact, none of the ingredients set out in the sections under which he was booked were present in the case, the court said.“The very registration of the impugned FIR is absurd and an abuse of legal process. It stands quashed,” the judge ruled.
22-12-2021||India||Gujarat woman set on fire over her puppy’s name||A woman was seriously injured after she was set on fire allegedly by one of her neighbours who was angry over the similarity between the name of her puppy and the nickname of the wife of one of the attackers in Gujarat, police said on Tuesday.The incident was reported from Palitana town in the Bhavnagar district on Monday afternoon. The victim, Neetaben Sarvaiya (35), suffered severe burn injuries. She is currently undergoing treatment at the government hospital in Bhavnagar, a Palitana town police station official said. Sarvaiya was at her home with her youngest son at the time of the incident. Her husband and two children had gone out, he said. Sarvaiya’s neighbour Surabhai Bharwad and five others barged into her house on Monday afternoon. They objected to Sarvaiya naming her puppy as ‘Sonu’, which is the nickname of Bharwad’s wife, as per the FIR.Bharwad accused Sarvaiya of deliberately naming the puppy after his wife, police said. In her statement to the police, Sarvaiya said that Bharwad abused her but she tried to avoid him and others. As she entered the kitchen, three persons followed her. One of them poured kerosene from the container on Sarvaiya and set her on fire lighting a matchstick, the police said.Police registered an FIR against six persons under various sections of the Indian Penal Code for the attempt to murder, house trespassing, insult etc.Nobody is arrested so far, police said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/gujarat-woman-set-on-fire-over-her-puppy-s-name-101640113773757.html
22-12-2021||India||4 bills sent to Parliament panels, winter session set to end today||The Narendra Modi government referred four out of six contentious bills to parliamentary panels, stalled one but passed another quickly in the politically-charged winter session that saw major protests, limited debates and a prolonged stand-off between the government and the Opposition.The winter session of Parliament that started on November 29, is set to end on Wednesday after completing the debate on the Appropriation Bill in the Upper House, said people aware of developments.The Lok Sabha is likely to end early even as it has two debates on price rise and climate change in its agenda, said the people quoted above, requesting anonymity. There was speculation that the session might be adjourned in the Lok Sabha on Tuesday itself after Speaker Om Birla tried to stop Opposition-sponsored disruptions and said he was appealing to lawmakers “on this last day” to go back to their seats.This will be the fifth time in a row when a Parliament session got adjourned sine die ahead of schedule. The first one was the 2020 budget session that was wrapped up 13 days ahead of schedule. The winter session of 2020 and this year’s budget as well as monsoon sessions also faced early closure due to Covid-19.This time, the session will end a day before its planned fixture amid fears of an aggressive spread of the new Omicron variant.The session that started with the repeal of three contentious farm laws found a cautious government sending as many as four key bills to House panels for reviews. On Tuesday, women and child development minister Smriti Irani announced in the Lok Sabha that the legislation to increasing the minimum age for a woman to marry at 21, at par with men, should be sent to the standing committee related to the ministry.While a section of the political spectrum was in favour of the legislation as it could control birth rates, Opposition parties were skeptical about the “political objective” of the bill and wanted a detailed review.Two days ago, Union environment minister Bhupender Yadav proposed to send the bill to amend the biodiversity laws to a select panel. The mediation bill, which sets up an alternative dispute redressal system at pre-litigation stage of civil or commercial disputes, was also referred to a panel.Two Opposition leaders claimed that the government reached an agreement to refer the amendments to the Wildlife Protection Act to a committee for review -- this will allow stakeholders to give their opinion on the bill.The hotly contested electricity bill amendments that aim to de-license the power distribution sector and allow private sector players to compete with discoms, was halted as per the agreement with protesting farm unions.“This is not a change of heart of the Modi government. They are simply referring these contentious bills to panel to avoid the mistake they made by bulldozing the farm laws,” claimed Congress chief whip in the Rajya Sabha, Jairam Ramesh.The Election Laws (Amendment) Bill, 2021, which proposes linking electoral rolls to the Aadhaar database on a voluntary basis and make the language of India’s election law gender-neutral, was approved by the Rajya Sabha on Tuesday. It was passed by the Lok Sabha a day ago.As on Tuesday, the Lok Sabha and Rajya Sabha utilised 85% and 44% of their allotted time, respectively. Seven bills have been already cleared by both Houses in this session.
22-12-2021||India||Akali leader Majithia booked by Punjab Police in drugs case||Former Punjab minister and senior Akali Dal leader Bikram Singh Majithia (46) has been booked by the Punjab Police in a drugs case, prompting immediate accusations that the ruling Congress is trying to settle political scores ahead of assembly election early next year. The case against the three-time MLA was registered on Monday night under various sections of the Narcotic Drugs and Psychotropic Substances (NDPS) Act on the basis of a report submitted by the special task force (STF) chief and additional director general of police Harpreet Singh Sidhu. Majithia, who could not be reached for comment, now faces imminent arrest. Majithia, brother of former Union minister and Bathinda MP Harsimrat Kaur Badal, is an aggressive and prominent Akali leader. He was among the most powerful ministers in the Parkash Singh Badal government that ruled the state till 2017. The police action against him has raised the political temperature in the poll-bound state at a time when the Shiromani Akali Dal, which took a battering in the 2017 election, is looking to improve its performance. Former chief minister Badal said it was expected. “The Congress government changed three state police chiefs to book and arrest the Badals and Majithia. Any government which indulges in such vendetta has to face the consequences,” the five-time former chief minister said. Majithia, who has not been seen in public for the past few days, could not be contacted. Badal’s reference is also to investigations into his and his son Sukhbir Singh Badal’s role in the so-called sacrilege incident, when pages from the holy book of the Sikhs were found torn in 2015, resulting in violence and police action that left two people dead. The Congress has blamed the then government of the SAD for the deaths. According to the 49-page FIR registered at the State Crime Police Station in Mohali, Majithia has been booked for cognizable offenses under Sections 25 (Punishment for allowing premises, etc. to be used for commission of an offence), 27 (A) ( whoever is financing any activities indulging in production, manufacture, possession, sale, purchase, transportation, use or consumption, import and export or deal in any activities pertaining to narcotic drugs) and 29 (party to a criminal conspiracy to commit an offence) of NDPS Act. These sections have the provision of imprisonment up to 10 years along with fine as decided by the court. “As per the findings of the STF report, prima facie there is sufficient evidence to record to further investigate the role of Majithia as regards the allegations made in application under scrutiny,” reads the FIR while mentioning the STF chief’s report prepared on the basis of analysis of investigation done by the Enforcement Directorate (ED) in the Bhola drug case. In 2018, the STF chief was given the task to analyze the former Akali minister’s role. His report, based on the statements of drug case accused Jagjit Singh Chahal and Maninder Singh Bittu Aulakh to the ED, has been made part of the FIR.In 2013, Arjuna Award-winning international wrestler and dismissed DSP of Punjab Police, Jagdish Bhola, was accused of amassing properties worth crores by smuggling drugs. In 2018, the STF had submitted its report in the Punjab and Haryana high court which later sought the Punjab DGP and then home secretary’s response. Since then, the report has been lying in a sealed cover in the court. The FIR also mentions Punjab’s advocate general DS Patwalia’s legal opinion which has strongly pushed for action on the STF chief’s report. “In my considered opinion which has been formed after having gone through the proceedings of the honourable court, there is no impediment/embargo for the STF or any state agency to act upon the report submitted in the court. In fact, the court has made it categorically clear that law enforcement agencies must act upon the said reports in accordance with the law.” Notably, Patwalia’s opinion is different from that of his predecessor who advised against acting on the report without the consent of the high court. The process to register the case was initiated after DGP SidharthChattopadhyaya wrote the director, Bureau of Investigation (BoI), on December 20, two days after he took charge. The FIR has been registered on the complaint of the station house officer (SHO), state crime police station, inspector Kailash Bahadur. A special investigation team (SIT) has been constituted to investigate the case. Home minister Sukhjinder Randhawa told news channels that special teams have been sent to certain locations to arrest the former minister. Earlier, Punjab Congress chief Navjot Singh Sidhu, a known detractor of the Badals and Majithia, tweeted: “After 5.5 years of fight against the corrupt system run by the Badal Family & Captain and delay of 4 years without action taken on ED & STF reports against Majithia. Finally now, after pushing for credible officers in positions of power and influence first step has been taken”. Sidhu has long alleged that former Congress chief minister Captain Amarinder Singh, who has now set up his own political party, was soft on the Badals. Sidhu also said the FIR was a slap on the face of all those powerful people who went slow on the issue. “Justice will not be served until main culprits behind drug mafia are given exemplary punishment; this is merely a first step. Will fight till punishment is given which acts as deterrent for generations.” The Charanjit Singh Channi-led Congress government’s efforts to book Majithia in the drug case ahead of the Punjab assembly elections has seen several twists and turns. Last Monday, a letter purportedly written by the Bureau of Investigation (BOI) chief AS Asthana surfaced on social media in which he said he was against booking Majithia on the basis of the 2018 special task force (STF) report lying in a sealed cover with the Punjab and Haryana high court. 
22-12-2021||India||Amit Shah chairs meeting on cybercrime awareness||Home minister Amit Shah on Tuesday chaired the consultative committee of the ministry to address the progress made in responding to cybercrime threats over the last seven years with a focus on the initiatives launched to spread awareness against the rising number of cases, the government said in a press statement.Ministers of state for home Nityanand Rai, Ajay Kumar Mishra and Nishith Pramanik and several senior officials of the home ministry, including the Union home secretary, also attended the meeting.“The Government of India is committed to deal with every aspect of this new menace and as public representatives, it is the responsibility of all of us to try to spread awareness about cybercrimes,” Shah told the attendees, according to the statement.The statement added that the work of setting up the infrastructure to deal with cybercrimes in the country had been completed up to the police post level. “The Crime and Criminal Tracking Network and Systems (CCTNS) has now been implemented in all 16,347 police stations of the country. In 99 per cent of the police stations, 100 per cent FIRs are being registered directly in the CCTNS. This also includes the newly established police stations,” the statement said.Shah also highlighted that 40% of the work to make analytical tools against cybercrimes has been completed and efforts are being made to train police and lawyers to prevent cybercrimes. The press statement added that so far, more than 6 lakh complaints have been received on the National Cybercrime Reporting Portal (NCRP) and 12,776 FIRs have been registered, while the National Cybercrime Threat Analysis Unit (NCTAU) has issued 142 cybercrime prevention advisories and has blocked 266 mobile apps.According to the statement, members gave suggestions for further strengthening the response mechanism to deal with cybercrimes.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/amit-shah-chairs-meeting-on-cybercrime-awareness-101640113235505.html
22-12-2021||India||‘Anti-national’ not defined in Statutes, Govt tells Parliament||The home ministry told Parliament on Tuesday that there is no legal definition for the term “anti-national”, though there is criminal legislation and various judicial pronouncements to deal with activities that are a threat to the country.The ministry said this in the Lok Sabha in response to a question by All India Majlis-e-Ittehadul Muslimeen (AIMIM) MP Asaduddin Owaisi seeking to know whether the government had defined the meaning of “anti-national” under any legislation or rules or other legal enactment enforced in the country.“The word ‘anti-national’ has not been defined in Statutes. However, there are criminal legislations and various judicial pronouncements to sternly deal with unlawful and subversive activities which are detrimental to the unity and integrity of the country,” minister of state for home affairs Nityanand Rai said in a written statement.He noted that it is relevant that the Constitution (Forty–Second Amendment) Act, 1976 in Article 31D, inserted during the Emergency, defined “anti-national activity” and this Article (31D) was subsequently omitted via the Constitution (Forty-third Amendment) Act, 1977.Owaisi also sought to know the number of people arrested for engaging in “anti national” activities during the last three years. Rai maintained that public order and police are state subjects and the data about the number of people arrested for such activities is not maintained centrally.To be sure, the National Crime Records Bureau (NCRB) in its latest report identified four “anti-national” elements: Northeast insurgents, Left-wing extremists, jihadi extremists, and other terrorists. According to the report, these four elements were responsible for 398 violent attacks that took place in 2020. Of theSE 398 violent attacks, 240 were triggered by Left-wing extremists, 76 by jihadi extremists, 47 by Northeast insurgents and 37 by other terrorists.Earlier this month, Parliament’s standing committee on communication and information technology, headed by Congress MP Shashi Tharoor, in its report on “ethical standards in media coverage” recommended that the government properly define terms such as “anti-national attitude” to remove any ambiguity in interpretation.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/antinational-not-defined-in-statutes-govt-tells-parliament-101640113233605.html
22-12-2021||India||Foreign secy to visit Myanmar; security situation on agenda||Foreign secretary Harsh Vardhan Shringla will visit Myanmar on Wednesday for talks with the military junta and political parties against the backdrop of growing concern in New Delhi over the fallout of the humanitarian and security situation in the neighbouring country.The Ministry of External Affairs (MEA) on Tuesday announced Shringla’s two-day working visit between December 22 and 23 – the first such trip from the Indian side since Myanmar’s military assumed power through a coup on February 1 – in a brief statement.During the visit, the statement said, Shringla will “hold discussions with the State Administration Council, political parties and members of civil society”. Issues related to “humanitarian support to Myanmar, security and India-Myanmar border concerns, and the political situation in Myanmar” will be discussed, it said.Shringla last visited Myanmar in October 2020, when he was accompanied by Indian Army chief General MM Naravane – the first time an Indian delegation to the neighbouring country included both officials. At the time, the two sides had discussed cooperation in areas ranging from security to connectivity.There has been mounting concern in India over the Myanmar junta’s crackdown on nationwide protests against the coup, which has left more than 1,300 people dead and some 11,000 arrested, and a spike in activities of armed resistance groups in areas bordering the strategic northeastern region.More than 15,000 people who fled Myanmar have taken shelter in the northeastern states of Manipur, Mizoram and Nagaland, and there are fears that members of armed pro-democracy groups could sneak into India in growing numbers. Indian officials also fear that the instability in Myanmar’s border regions could boost the activities of anti-India militant groups, which have had bases in these areas for long.In keeping with India’s long-standing stance of striking a balance between Myanmar’s military and political parties, New Delhi has pushed for dialogue between all stakeholders in the neighbouring country to settle their differences. India has also backed democratic transition and restoration of the democratic process in Myanmar since the coup.On December 7, India expressed concern at the conviction of deposed leader Aung San Suu Kyi on charges of incitement and breaching coronavirus restrictions in what was widely described as a “sham trial”.India has also backed a central role for the Association of Southeast Asian Nations (Asean) in tackling the situation in Myanmar, though the 10-member bloc’s efforts to forge consensus on the issue have been affected by a move by the current chair, Cambodia, to directly engage with the military junta.In response to a call by Asean’s secretary general to provide humanitarian aid to Myanmar, India said it had delivered Covid-19-related relief to the Myanmar Red Cross Society on November 27. This support was in addition to the contribution of $1 million to the Covid-19 Asean Response Fund.
22-12-2021||India||Derek O’Brien throws rule book at Rajya Sabha chair, suspended||Trinamool Congress (TMC) floor leader Derek O’Brien was suspended from the Rajya Sabha on Tuesday for the remaining part of the winter session after he threw the house rule book at the Chair.The suspension, however, will be in place only for a few hours as the ongoing winter session of Parliament is set to conclude on Wednesday. Last month, the Upper House had suspended 12 Opposition lawmakers, including two lawmakers from the TMC, for unruly scenes in the house during the monsoon session. The suspension touched off a heated confrontation between the government and the Opposition.O’Brien hurled the rule book during a discussion on Election Laws (Amendment Bill) 2021 on Tuesday in the Rajya Sabha. As the house passed the bill, opposition parties demanded a division of votes on their motion for sending it to a select committee. However, the demand was rejected by a voice vote.O’Brien cited rules for a division of votes and when denied, he threw the rule book on the table where officials sit and walked out. He was joined by members of other opposition parties. “The rule book could have hit the chair or secretary general or other officials. Derek O’Brien thereby resorted to grave misconduct and gross violation of rules and norms and etiquette,” Rajya Sabha vice chairman Sasmit Patra said.“Being a floor leader, O’Brien, instead of setting high standards of conduct in the House, set a bad example and denigrated the dignity and stature of the House,” he added.“The last time I got suspended from RS was when the government was bulldozing farm laws. We all know what happened after that. Today, suspended while protesting against BJP making a mockery of parliament and bulldozing the Election Laws Bill 2021. Hope this bill too will be repealed soon,” he tweeted, referring to the November withdrawal of three controversial farm laws. Leader of the House Piyush Goyal and Union minister Bhupender Yadav demanded that the TMC leader apologise for his behavior. “The way he threw the rule book, he just did not insult the chair or secretary general or table office, but the entire nation,” Goyal said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/derek-o-brien-throws-rule-book-at-rajya-sabha-chair-suspended-101640112994961.html
22-12-2021||India||Bill to raise marriage age for women sent to Parliamentary panel after protests||The government on Tuesday tabled a draft legislation in the Lok Sabha that seeks to raise the legal age for marriage of women from 18 to 21 years, at par with men, amid protests from opposition parties on the manner in which the bill was introduced.The Prohibition of Child Marriage (Amendment) Bill, 2021, was later referred by the Lower House to a parliamentary panel for further scrutiny by a voice vote. After examining the bill, the panel will present its recommendations before Parliament.“I would like to present that women’s equality in our country needs to be seen in (terms of) age of marriage,” women and child development minister Smriti Irani said while introducing the bill in Parliament.Existing laws do not adequately secure the constitutional mandate of gender equality in marriageable age among men and women, the draft legislation says. “Women are often put in a disadvantageous position in regard to higher education, vocational instruction, attainment of psychological maturity and skill-sets, etc. Entering into the employment sphere and being part of the workforce to make themselves self dependent ... is a critical area,” the bill adds. “These disadvantages perpetuate the dependence of women on men.”Increasing the marriageable age of women to 21 years would help in lowering maternal and infant mortality rates while improving nutrition and sex ratio at birth, the proposed legislation says. The central government will offer a grace period of two years from the date the legislation receives presidential assent.Some opposition members criticised the government for listing the bill in the supplementary business list, which was circulated minutes before the house reconvened at 2 pm on Tuesday. Others protested that the proposed law limits rights under several personal laws in violation of fundamental rights guaranteed in the Constitution.“I want to tell the government that they will make mistakes if they hurry. They didn’t consult any of the stakeholders,” said Adhir Ranjan Chowdhury of the Congress party. “Why does the government keep doing this?”Stating that this was the second or third time that the government was aggressively bringing in a draft law without consulting the opposition, Nationalist Congress Party MP Supriya Sule alleged that it is not sticking to the agenda as discussed by the business advisory committee, a group of MPs across parties that meets under the chairmanship of the Speaker.The raising of marriageable age also came in for criticism. “This is against fundamental rights. An 18-year-old can vote but can’t get married?” said Asaduddin Owaisi of the All India Majlis-e-Ittehadul Muslimeen. “What is your beti bachao programme about?” The central government has been running a beti bachao, beti padhao campaign to prevent female feticide and improve efficiency of welfare services for girls.“After so many years of Independence, men and women need equal rights in matrimony. This amendment gives equality to men and women in allowing both to marry at 21. Our research shows that 21 lakh (2.1 million) child marriages had to be stopped and many underage girls were found pregnant,” minister Irani said, countering the opposition’s objections. “You are stopping women from their right to equality.”The bill seeks to modify the definition of a child, staing that it means a male or female who has not completed 21 years of age. It also seeks to make consequential changes to various personal laws relating to the marriage of different communities to ensure a uniform marriage age.The draft legislation seeks to amend seven personal laws – the Indian Christian Marriage Act; the Parsi Marriage and Divorce Act; the Muslim Personal Law (Shariat) Application Act; the Special Marriage Act; the Hindu Marriage Act; Hindu Minority and Guardianship Act and the Foreign Marriage Act.It further seeks to prohibits child marriage, irrespective of any law, custom, usage or practice governing the parties. “(It) declares that provisions of the Act shall have an overriding effect over every other law, custom, usage or practice governing the parties. (It) makes consequential amendments to the other laws relating to marriage,” the bill stated.The Union Cabinet on December 15 cleared the proposal to raise the minimum age of marriage for women. The Cabinet’s approval came after a NITI Aayog committee headed by Jaya Jaitly, former president of the Samata Party, suggested raising the marriageable age in its December 2020 report. The report was prepared after conducting a survey among students of 16 universities, where 70% of the respondents agreed that the marriageable age for women should be increased to 21.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/bill-to-raise-marriage-age-for-women-sent-to-parliamentary-panel-after-protests-101640112816677.html
22-12-2021||India||More engineers join police force in Karnataka, but officials say not much help in probe||Nearly 35% of sub-inspectors who joined the Karnataka police this year are engineering graduates, officials say. This should have been good news since Karnataka reported, according to the NCRB report, the highest number of cybercrimes in the country in 2019, but senior police officers in the state disagree. They say the quality of the engineering degrees has been a matter of concern and most importantly the department doesn’t require high technical knowledge either, since their basic job remains the maintenance of law and order. Vipul Kumar, the commandant of the Karnataka Police Academy, the premier police training institute in the state, said that out of the 181 civil police sub-inspectors and 15 sub-inspectors who passed out in February this year, 78 of them held a Bachelor of Engineering (BE) degree and three had master’s degree in engineering. “They have been given the basic training that is provided to every police officer for a period of nine months. This also includes some amount of technical training. Any role-specific training will be provided once they join the respective units,” Kumar said. Similarly for the Police Training College in Kalburgi, 28 of the 108 graduates were engineers. In 2015, only 10.4% (24 out of 229) graduate sub-inspectors were engineering graduates. In the last five years, there has been a 20 percentage point increase in these figures. Having technically sound police officers is an advantage, said MN Anuchet, deputy commissioner of police, central, who was part of the special investigation team that probed the murder of activist Gauri Lankesh. “A police officer with technical education will be able to understand the CDR (Call Details Records), data recovery and other technical aspects of the investigation quickly. There have been some officers who have shown some excellence in technical investigation, but the requirement for such knowledge is really limited,” said the officer who studied engineering. Praveen Sood, Director General and Inspector General of Karnataka police and alumni of the Indian Institute of Technology (IIT) Delhi, said engineering graduates joining the police department is not surprising. “Even in the constabulary, there are many engineers. Considering the number of engineering colleges there are in the state and how saturated the software and related industries in Bengaluru are, such a move was expected. A sub-inspector gets a starting salary of over ₹55,000, which is more than the average salary in an IT firm in the city,” he said. According to Sood, having a large number of graduates is not a big boon for the police department. “The constabulary or mid-level officers having technical knowledge is good, but the technical investigation is only part of the policing job, and those jobs already have dedicated units. Our primary responsibility still remains law and order maintenance which is a boots on the ground job. For this, police training is more important than technical knowledge,” said Sood. He, however, added that the new recruits are given training on cybercrime, which includes sessions on the dark web, which is a new area of concern for the police. Another senior officer, on the condition of anonymity, said that even the technical capability of joining the department is not the best either. “We have heard about the unemployability of engineering graduates in the country, so the increase in the engineers joining the department is one aspect of this problem. There are several engineering colleges in the state, where the quality of education is not great. This was even spoken about by Infosys co-founder Narayana Murthy. So, police department getting more engineers doesn’t mean we have got the cream of engineers,” the officer said. “For us, the technical knowledge of the officer is of little importance. In a way, we are also following the training format followed by big multinationals like Infosys, where they recruit graduates from all streams of engineering and train them to be software engineers. Just like that, regardless of their background, we train them to be policemen,” he added.The officer also pointed out that the increase in higher educated mid-ranks and constabulary has been affecting the discipline within the department. “The educational hierarchy changing over the years has led to traditional discipline and respect for the chain of command getting affected,” he added.
22-12-2021||India||94% of allotted Oxygen plants commissioned: Centre||Around 94% of the 1563 oxygen plants sanctioned under the aegis of the PM Cares fund or that were being set up by state-owned enterprises or government departments have been commissioned, the Union health ministry told the Rajya Sabha on Tuesday.All of the 1225 plants under the aegis of the PM Cares fund have been commissioned and 238 of the 338 being set up by state-owned enterprises and government departments have also been commissioned, it said.The number is important because of the medical oxygen shortage witnessed during the bruising second wave of the coronavirus disease pandemic in April and May, and the ministry’s disclosure comes even as the threat of a possible third wave caused by the Omicron variant of the SARS-CoV-2 virus looms.Responding to a query from Congress’ Anand Sharma, minister of state (health) Dr Bharati Pravin Pawar said: “The government has sanctioned 1,563 PSA oxygen generation plants of which 1,463 have been commissioned. These include 1,225 PSA plants which have been installed and commissioned by PMCARES funds in every district of the country,.”Data released by the ministry showed ₹24.46 crores was released in 2020-21 and ₹368.04 crores was released in 2021-22 (so far) to vendors for setting up the oxygen plants.Dr Pawar said that 238 plants were set up by public sector undertakings of the ministry of petroleum and natural gases, ministry of power, ministry of coal and ministry of railways among others.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/94-of-allotted-oxygen-plants-commissioned-centre-101640112813787.html
22-12-2021||India||Madras high court suspends lawyer from practising for ‘improper’ behaviour||An advocate of the Madras High Court was suspended on Tuesday from practicing for his alleged ‘improper’ behaviour with a woman during the course of the virtual hearing of a case before a single judge.R D Santhana Krishnan, an advocate from here, was prevented from practising as an advocate in all courts, tribunals and other authorities in India either in his name or in any assumed name till the disposal of the disciplinary proceedings pending against him for his alleged indecent behaviour, a press release from the Bar Council of Tamil Nadu and Puducherry said.The portfolio judges P N Prakash and R Hemalatha on their own initiated contempt proceedings against Santhana Krishnan. They directed the CB-CID wing of the police to register a case and hold a thorough probe on the issue and file a report on December 23.The judges also directed the Tamil Nadu Bar Council to take appropriate disciplinary proceedings against the lawyer and accordingly, it prohibited Santhana Krishnan from practising, by adopting the resolution today.The video purportedly showed the lawyer in an intimate posture with a woman, while a judge was hearing a case through video-conferencing on Monday. It went viral on Tuesday. The bench on Tuesday said the “Court cannot afford to be a mute spectator and turn a Nelson’s eye when such brazen vulgarity is publicly displayed amidst Court proceedings.” It directed the the City Police Commissioner to take steps to block the circulation of the impugned video clipping in social media.“Superadded, we are of the considered view that it is high time that we revisit the procedure of conducting court proceedings in hybrid mode, especially in the light of the fact that advocates, in large numbers, have started appearing in person in our High Court as well in the district Courts.” “However, a decision in this regard has to be taken by the Hon’ble Acting Chief Justice before whom this matter may be placed,” the judges said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/madras-high-court-suspends-lawyer-from-practising-for-improper-behaviour-101640112754131.html
22-12-2021||India||Issue of 68 fishermen’s detention taken up with Sri Lanka: MEA||India on Tuesday expressed concern at the detention of 68 Indian fishermen and 10 boats by Sri Lankan authorities since the weekend and said steps are being taken for their early release.The detention of fishermen by Sri Lankan authorities is an emotive issue in Tamil Nadu and the matter has already been raised by Chief Minister MK Stalin with external affairs minister S Jaishankar. Stalin sought the Central government’s intervention for the release of the fishermen.External affairs ministry spokesperson Arindam Bagchi said India was “concerned at the detention of Indian fishermen from Tamil Nadu by Sri Lankan authorities” during December 18-20. “As per our information, 68 fishermen and 10 boats have been taken into custody,” he said.“Our high commission in Colombo has taken up the issue of early release of the Indian fishermen and boats with the government of Sri Lanka,” Bagchi added.Officials from India’s consulate in Jaffna have met the detained fishermen and are “providing all necessary support”. This includes providing clothes, toiletries, snacks, dry essentials and masks to the fishermen, and facilitating phone calls to their relatives.Indian officials are also arranging legal representation. “In the case of one fisherman who was indisposed, the Indian consular officer has visited him in hospital to check on his welfare,” Bagchi said.He said Jaishankar had received representations on the issue from various political parties and was also called on the matter by Stalin.The external affairs minister “has apprised them all of the current situation and underlined government of India’s efforts to secure early release” of the fishermen, Bagchi said.The Sri Lankan Navy detained the fishermen, most of them from Rameswaram in Tamil Nadu, on charges of alleged poaching in the island nation’s waters. Fishermen’s associations in Tamil Nadu have contended the Union government has not done enough to address the issue of such detentions by Sri Lankan authorities.The associations also contended that the detained fishermen had not violated the maritime boundary.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/issue-of-68-fishermen-s-detention-taken-up-with-sri-lanka-mea-101640112752777.html
22-12-2021||India||Stalin urges Jaishankar to act for release of 60 fishermen held in Lanka||Tamil Nadu chief minister MK Stalin on Tuesday sought external affairs minister S Jaishankar’s immediate intervention to secure release of 68 fishermen and 75 boats from Sri Lankan Navy and Coast Guard’s custody.This is the second time that Stalin has reached out to Jaishankar in the past two days over the issue. “I had written to you about the unfortunate incidents involving the Sri Lankan Navy and our fishermen a couple of days ago,” Stalin’s letter on Tuesday read. “Yet again, there has been an incident of apprehension of fishermen, this time by Sri Lankan Coast Guard.”He said two boats with 13 fishermen aboard who set sail from Tamil Nadu’s Pudukkottai district have been apprehended by the Lankan coast guard. “The alarming frequency at which these incidents of apprehension and attacks are happening warrant urgent attention. Lives and livelihood of our fishermen must be protected when they fish in the traditional waters of Palk Bay,” the chief minister said.A copy of Stalin’s letter was handed over to Jaishankar in Delhi by DMK MPs led by parliamentary party leader TR Baalu. Tamil Nadu has requested the Indian government to use diplomatic channels with the Lankan government to put an end to what the state describes as “intimidatory tactics” of the island nation.Union minister of state for fisheries and former president of Tamil Nadu’s BJP unit L Murugan also urged Jaishankar for immediate release of these fishermen.Earlier on Sunday, Stalin had written to Jaishankar about two incidents of fishermen being detained by the Sri Lankan Navy in a span of 24 hours. In one episode on December 12, as many as 43 fishermen from Rameswaram in Ramanathapuram District who were fishing in the waters of Palk Bay, in six mechanized fishing boats were arrested and taken to Mylatti, a naval base in Sri Lanka. On December 19, 12 fishermen in two mechanized fishing boats from Mandapam in Ramanathapuram district were arrested and taken to Kalpatti Naval base in Lanka. “I am saddened to point out that the incidents of arrest and harassment of Tamil Nadu fishermen by the Sri Lankan Navy continue with alarming frequency despite several letters sent by the Government of Tamil Nadu,” Stalin had said on Sunday. “I would also like to point out that, in the year 2021 itself there were 19 incidents of apprehension and attack of Tamil Nadu fishermen. Though the fishermen were released, fishing boats, the source of livelihood are still detained by Sri Lankan authorities. Further, during the same period, there were two instances of attacks and five fishermen were killed.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/stalin-urges-jaishankar-to-act-for-release-of-60-fishermen-held-in-lanka-101640112694730.html
22-12-2021||India||Telugu NRI comes up with new OTT platform||A US-based Telugu non-resident Indian has come up with a new digital Over-The-Top (OTT) platform to stream the choicest movies with audiences not requiring to subscribe to it and producers not requiring to sell their digital rights.Kollu Ranjit, a Vijayawada-born and Boston-based technocrat, in collaboration with his childhood friend Venkat Yeleti from Hyderabad, is getting ready to launch this new OTT platform – Hit.movie, which will enable the audiences to watch the movies of their choice at the click of the mouse.“It is a simple platform, whereon one can buy a ticket and watch a movie of his choice – on mobile or tablet or laptop or television or a home theatre. All that one has to have is an internet connection. One doesn’t have to subscribe to the platform, unlike in the case of other OTTs like Netflix, Amazon or Zee-5, wherein one has to take subscriptions monthly, half-yearly or annually,” Ranjit told HT.He said it is essentially a producer-friendly OTT platform, as they don’t have to sell their digital rights, as they have been doing with other OTTs, “They don’t need to give up their ownership rights and there are no middlemen,” he said.All that the producers have to do is upload the master files of their films on the site, after filling up the movie details, paying the listing fees, adding necessary Know Your Customer (KYC) documents. “After verifying the content, to ensure that it does not have any offensive content or porn, the film would be thrown open for streaming for the viewers within 72 hours,” he said.Stating that Hit.movie itself would take up the digital marketing and publicity for the films uploaded on the site, Ranjit said the movie could be streamed in over 150 countries. “It is for the producers to decide whether he wants the film to be streamed across the world, or a select few countries or only the native country,” he said.Ranjit said the ticket prices on this platform would be decided by the producers themselves. “The revenue is shared between the producers and the OTT on 70:30 basis. The producers will get real time audit log of all ticket sales with country-wise and date-wise breakup. We handle the tax payments and compliance on ticket sales in every country,” he said.The producers can also opt for pre-booking feature of their films on Hit.movie platform, so that they could get part of their investments in advance before the films hit the screens.Ranjit said the platform also promises content security, so that there would be no copyright issues. “We adopt a combination of active and futuristic measures like domain based restrictions, content security policies (CSP), signed URL’s, Digital Rights Management (DRM), country/location based restrictions, watermarking, File encryptions in transit and at rest,” he said.The platform also promises to ensure high quality streaming of films – up to 4K HDR cinematic quality. “Hit.Movie works on all major browsers and apps are available for Google TV (Android TV), Apple TV, and Firestick,” he claimed.Ranjit says his platform is ideally suitable for small budget films which do not find theatres for direct release. “Moreover, big OTT platforms do not buy these small budget films for screening but prefer mostly big films. At the same time, in overseas market, too, the Indian audiences do not find Indian movies of their choice on their local OTT platforms. We provide a platform for such producers and audiences,” he added.
22-12-2021||India||Four arrested for BJP leader’s murder in Kerala||A special investigation team (SIT) of Kerala police probing the double political murder in Alappuzha on Tuesday arrested four workers of the Social Democratic Party of India (SDPI) in connection with killing of BJP OBC Morcha state secretary Renjith Sreenivasan, said additional director general of police (ADGP) Vijay Sakhre.On Saturday, police had arrested two workers of the Rashtriya Swayamsevak Sangh (RSS) in connection with the murder of SDPI secretary KS Shan. Two back to back political murders in relatively peaceful district shocked the state and also exposed alertness of law-enforcement agencies.Amid uneasy calm a peace meeting was held in the city on Tuesday and participants supported all initiatives to bring back peace in the district. “All parties agreed to work towards a lasting peace in the district and decided to isolate troublemakers. Police will be given a free hand to conduct an independent probe and arrest all accused at the earliest,” said culture minister Saji Cherian.In the meeting, BJP, RSS leaders insisted for a central agency probe while the SDPI said police were harassing its leaders “to please the Sangh Parivar”. The identities of arrested SDPI leaders were not revealed and two arrested RSS workers were identified as Rajendra Prasad and Ratheesh alias Kuttan.“We have identified 18 people who directly participated in two murders. Investigation is on right track and there will be more arrests in coming days. We will also arrest those who planned these murders. We will leave no stone unturned,” said the ADGP, who is overseeing the SIT probe.“We have seized the vehicles used in both murders. Both are well planned and executed killings. There were also plan to foment communal trouble in the district. We will also book those who raised provocative slogans during the last rites,” said another senior officer of the SIT, who wished not to be named.“Swift retaliation clearly shows both sides were well prepared. Only a foolproof investigation can isolate such forces,” he said, adding that detained include a municipal councilor of the SDPI. He said more than 250 houses of both were raided in last two days.The opposition Congress has asked the Left government to give a free hand to police. “Of late police stations turned to party cells. Party intervention demoralised the force,” opposition leader V D Satheesan said in Kannur, northen Kerala.The SDPI has asked police to book RSS leader Valsan Thillankeri in connection with the murder of Shan. “We reiterate that he was part of the conspiracy to kill our leader,” said SDPI leader Ashraf Moulavi.He also justified the provocative statement that “Shan had attained much-awaited martyrdom” and “it was not an occasion to wail, but an occasion for jubilation since he entered the heaven.”Many RSS-BJP leaders have sought action against the leader saying “he was talking the language of Islamic State fighters”. But Thillankeri, state-level leader of the RSS, said he was in the district to participate in a function announced much earlier.Meanwhile, widow of S Sanjith, a RSS worker who was stabbed to death in Palakkad on Nov 15 allegedly SDPI activists, moved the high court on Tuesday seeking a central agency probe. In her plea, S Arshika said she was not happy with the ongoing investigation and more than one month after her husband’s murder main culprits are still at large.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/four-arrested-for-bjp-leader-s-murder-in-kerala-101640112634771.html
22-12-2021||India||Election Law Amendment bill: Centre rejects concerns, says reforms need of hour||The government on Tuesday defended the Election Law Amendment bill, rejected various concerns surrounding it, and pointed to the demand, in the past, by various political parties, including the Congress, for linking Aadhaar to the Voter ID, even as opposition parties argued that the decision would disenfranchise electors, put critical data at risk of breach by non-state actors and lead to voter profiling.The bill proposes to voluntarily link Aadhaar data to electoral rolls and make the language of the Representation of the People Act, 1950 (the RP Act, 1950) gender neutral, with the former provision being particularly controversial, with opposition leaders saying it will lead to “mass disenfranchisement”. It was passed by the Rajya Sabha a day after it cleared the Lok Sabha amidst loud protests and demands for a division, and will come into effect as law once it gets the President’s approval.Government officials asserted that the Election Laws (Amendment) bill 2021 incorporates various electoral reforms which have been discussed for a long time. “Registration in electoral roll is done based on an application by a person who is eligible to be registered as a voter. This bill has a provision whereby the new applicant may voluntarily provide Aadhaar number along with the application for the purpose of identity. No application will be rejected on the grounds that Aadhaar number has not been provided,” a government official said on condition of anonymity. “Aadhaar linking with electoral roll will solve one of the major problems in electoral database management which is multiple enrolment of the same person at different places.”The official added that the decision will help clean up electoral rolls and facilitate elector registration in the location at which they are “ordinarily resident”.The official also referenced an Election Commission press release from 27 August, 2018, which said that “political parties urged the Commission to link Aadhaar numbers with electors’ detail for better electoral roll management”.A second official pointed to news reports , also from 2018, that said that representatives from the Congress’ unit in Madhya Pradesh met the chief election commissioner and sought a re-verification of the electoral roll in the state by linking Aadhaar numbers to Voter IDs. That demand came months before the state went to polls.While the government pointed to the phrasing of the bill, which said the linking would be voluntary, privacy activists said that exceptions to not providing an Aadhaar number would only be clear when the government framed the rules under the law.Potential for data breachLeader of Opposition in the Lok Sabha, Adhir Ranjan Chowdhury told HT that when the government couldn’t keep the account of the Prime Minister from being hacked, it couldn’t be expected to protect the data of all the citizens, a reference to the PM’s Twitter account being temporarily compromised, although it isn’t clear whether this was caused by hacking or a security lapse. “There are so many issues with the bill in its current format and we wanted it to be scrutinized further by a standing committee. India does not have a data protection law yet, how can one introduce such legislation? Even the Twitter account of the Prime Minister isn’t safe . How will the government ensure the privacy of such critical data?”He added that the linkage would open the ecosystem to a possibility of a data breach by any agency or non-state actors, a contention that Biju Janata Dal MP Amar Patnaik concurred with.“Linking of Aadhaar identification at time of new or revision of electoral rolls for the stated purpose of removing duplication is good legislative intent and is welcome.” Patnaik told HT. “But the method of achieving it by linking it to the entire Aadhaar ecosystem system is problematic. The government first needs to make the system more robust.”If citizens’ data is breached, Patnaik added, they would have no recourse to their right to privacy in the absence of a data privacy law.No stakeholder consultationSenior leaders from across opposition parties on Tuesday slammed the government for having held no stakeholder consultation before introducing the bill.Chowdhury said that the government held no consultations regarding the contentious provision of the bill.“Congress was not called by the government for any consultation,” he said.Patnaik too said that no consultation was held by the government before the draft was introduced before the House. He, however, added that in a consultation with the Election Commission, political parties had agreed to link Aadhaar numbers with voter ID cards.“Based on this consultation, when ECI moved ahead, SC struck it down saying that a law needed to be brought in Parliament,” he said. “The problem can be solved by linking Aadhaar numbers, why the need to link the entire ecosystem?”Voter profiling, disenfranchisementShiv Sena MP Priyanka Chaturvedi highlighted how the linkage could lead to profiling of voters. “In 26 minutes an election law was passed in the LS to connect Aadhar with Voter ID. Aadhar data has address,mobile numbers&financial details. Can help map political preferences through social media connected to phone number, disenfranchise those in opposition from voter roll,” she tweeted.AIMIM MP Asaduddin Owaisi told HT that the decision would adversely impact both universal adult franchise and the secret ballot. “The secret ballot will suffer because of the government’s decision,” he said. “Empirical studies show that there 1.5 times more mistakes in Aadhaar than in the voter list. Moreover, if the government’s argument rests on ending bogus voting, then they casting doubts over the fairness of elections in the country. Let EC answer that.”Using the example of Telangana, Owaisi added that Aadhaar details were used to systematically eliminate voters from the electoral roll.According to Jagdeep Chokkar of the Association of Democratic Reforms, no consultations were done with the government on the issue. “If the government did stakeholder consultation, let them say with whom,” he said. “There are so many mistakes with the Aadhaar system itself, how will it correct mistakes of voter ids? The SC specifically as the EC to stop the linking forthwith because Aadhaar was meant for benefits and services. Even in the national capital, oftentimes, Aadhaar system doesn’t match my fingerprints, how will poor people use it to vote in rural areas? This decision rather creates the potential of depriving people in remote areas from voting.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/election-law-amendment-bill-centre-rejects-concerns-says-reforms-need-of-the-hour-101640112576393.html
22-12-2021||India||Shah asks BJP to step up fight against KCR govt||Senior Bharatiya Janata Party leader and union home minister Amit Shah on Tuesday asked the party leaders from Telangana to step up their fight against the Telangana Rashtra Samithi government in the state led by chief minister K Chandrasekhar Rao and expose his “corrupt rule”, a BJP leader said. Shah held a meeting with senior Telangana BJP leaders including state BJP president Bandi Sanjay, union minister G Kishan Reddy and MPs Dharmapuri Arvind and Soyam Bapu Rao, besides BJP national vice president DK Aruna at his residence in New Delhi. “The union home minister enquired about prevailing political situation in Telangana. We brought to his notice how the TRS government is indulging in witch-hunt of political rivals and suppression of voices of dissent,” Sanjay told reporters. Shah took serious note of the burning of effigies of Prime Minister Narendra Modi by TRS leaders and cadre as part of their protest against the Centre’s alleged indifferent attitude in purchasing paddy from the state. Sanjay said the Centre has repeatedly assured that it will purchase the entire raw rice produced during the Kharif season, Telangana chief minister K Chandrasekhar Rao was misleading the people by making false allegations against the Centre. “When there is no such issue in other states, including the neighbouring Andhra Pradesh, why is KCR creating so much fuss? He has promised that the state government would purchase every grain of paddy, but now he is passing the buck to the Centre,” he said. The state BJP chief said Shah had appreciated Eatala Rajender for winning the by-election to Huzurabad assembly seat with a big margin. “He also appreciated the first phase of Praja Sangrama Yatra taken out by the state BJP leaders to expose the corruption in the TRS government. He asked us to intensify our fight against the KCR government,” Sanjay said. Asking the state BJP leaders to start the second phase of the yatra soon, Shah said he will also participate in the yatra for two days. “The state should continue your fight against the TRS government and the central leadership will step in as and when it is required,” Sanjay quoted the union home minister as saying. The BJP central leadership has also asked the state BJP leaders to raise issues like unemployment, suicides of students, housing schemes and land sales. “Since the assembly election is less than two years away, the BJP will go all out against the TRS by launching a series of agitations on various issues,” Sanjay said. 
22-12-2021||India||Functional CCTVs can help check brutality in police stations, says Kerala HC||The Kerala High Court on Tuesday said brutality in police stations will stop once there are functional CCTV cameras there, especially in the cells.The observation by the high court came while hearing a man’s plea alleging that he was chained to a railing and then charged with the offence of obstructing an officer there from discharging his duties when he sought a receipt for a complaint made by him.“Are you (police) not ashamed to say that a man came inside the police station and used force to obstruct an officer from discharging his duties?” “Very unfortunate that a citizen who came to make a complaint was chained to the railing and then slapped with the offence under section 117 (e) of the Kerala Police Act for obstructing a police officer from discharging his duties,” Justice Devan Ramachandran said.This conduct is of the kind which occurred in 18th century dungeons and not of the 21st century, the court said.Despite the court coming down heavily on the police, “instances of police brutality are still being reported”, the judge said. The court further said that police stations should not be allowed to function in this manner and that “this brutality will stop only when we have functional CCTV cameras there”.It said it was going to exhort the legislature to do away with section 117 (e) of Kerala Police Act.The judge, during the hearing, said what was cause for concern was that the police was now waiting to “retrieve” CCTV footage of the incident which occurred in February this year to find out the truth behind the complainant’s claims, even though the video was not available in May as per a report submitted by a DySP in October.The DySP had said so in his report after carrying out an internal inquiry into the allegations made by the complainant against two police officers, one of them an SHO.In a memo filed by the police, the Inspector General of Police (IGP) south zone has said that the CCTV footage of the incident has to be retrieved and perused before deciding whether to drop the case lodged against the complainant under section 117 (e) of the Kerala Police Act.“This statement is of some concern as had the footage been available when the DySP made inquiries, as stated in an affidavit filed on October 22, 2021, the entire incident would have come out in the open.“The DySP had said that there was no CCTV footage. So I do not know how the IGP proposes to retrieve the footage or where the police are going to search for it,” the judge said.The court listed the matter for hearing in January next year and directed the police to file an affidavit on why the complainant be not compensated under the public law remedy for the trauma and harassment suffered by him.The judge said the police was keeping the case under section 117 (e) of Kerala Police Act pending against the complainant so that it can later bargain with him to drop his allegations against the two officers, especially the one who had chained and lodged the FIR against him.“I will not permit that,” the judge said and added that because the police and the state were defending errant officers in this manner, they are “not scared of the rule of law”.“If you want officers to be scared of the rule of law, then the state has to take strict action against them in such cases,” the court added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/functional-cctvs-can-help-check-brutality-in-police-stations-says-kerala-high-court-101640112573544.html
22-12-2021||India||Dec 21: What we know about Omicron so far||New Covid-19 cases in London have stopped accelerating. The number of people testing positive everyday is still a large number, but the exponential rate at which it was growing over the past fortnight appears to have now become a little linear. The trend, and whether it reflects the actual outbreak dynamics, could hold some lessons for regions preparing to face an Omicron wave. Outside of South Africa, the variant of concern has spread the furthest in the UK capital, possibly accounting for as much as 80% of new cases (if a particular testing artefact is considered) and has triggered a record surge in infections. That the growth rate has plateaued was proposed by Cambridge-based mathematician Alex Selby, who runs a Covid-19 tracker drawing from the several official data streams. “There are still a LOT of new cases per day but if there really is zero growth in new cases then that is highly encouraging. What could have caused it?” he wrote in a Twitter thread on Monday. “It can’t be herd immunity -- the effect is far too quick for that. The only genuine way to change growth in infections that quickly is changes in behaviour, i.e., people not meeting other people as much. The alternative would be that it’s all an artefact due to the testing system struggling to keep up, or fewer people choosing to get tested,” he added. The actual reasons are hard to ascertain. But looking at the two main possibilities offers some implications that other regions should pay attention to.Possibility 1: Testing has hit a ceilingThe record surge triggered by Omicron in the South African Gauteng province, where Omicron first spread widely, and the UK, created concerns that demand for tests will outstrip availability. Gauteng has seen a similar plateauing of new cases. Its growth rate has been in negative on some days, but that has been attributed by South Africa to holiday season travel, when tens of thousands of people leave the province that contains the country’s biggest city Johannesburg for their homes.Testing in London, and the UK in general, is unlike in most other regions in the world: the state-run National health Service (NHS) offers citizens free rapid test kits – known locally as lateral flow device, or LFD – to take Covid-19 tests at home. These tests are in addition to the PCR tests at laboratories, and LFD positive cases need to be confirmed by PCR tests.Of late, there have been anecdotal reports of LFD shortages and the waiting time for PCR results seem to have grown by a couple of days. “Positivity (positive results per test) is around 20% which is high, but it doesn’t sound overwhelming, and though there are certainly some delays in getting rapid tests, there doesn’t seem to be a major testing capacity issue yet,” Selby contended.Elsewhere in Europe, there are more clear signs Omicron can push testing capacity past its breaking point. Recent positivity rates in Denmark have been above 47% and the government is now looking at hospitalisations as the key metric, said Mads Albertsen, co-founder of DNASense, a testing lab in Denmark. Hospitalisations cannot be an early beacon for an incipient Omicron outbreak, which means countries, particularly densely populated ones like India, will need to strengthen testing capacity for a demand surge. Rapid tests, especially those that people can buy cheaply to take at home, could be key. It is crucial to remember Omicron is more transmissible than Delta, and the older variant had triggered a testing crisis in India at the peak of the March-April wave.Possibility 2: Behaviour change among peopleA second possibility could be that people are able to get tested but are choosing not to because they do not want to have to isolate during Christmas, Selby said. “It’s not easy to discount this completely, but I think it’s unlikely because overall numbers being tested are holding up well,” he said. But behaviour change could also genuinely be helping cut new transmission, or at least reduce it from the exponential rates that were prevailing. Google Mobility Report data showed significant drop in visits to workplaces, markets, recreation spots and other businesses, giving at least some indication that people have become more careful. In fact, a study by Yale University researchers, published in the Proceedings of the National Academy of Sciences in April, found that people become more careful when cases begin spiking, and it is the surge of new wave that spurs on voluntary behaviour changes. The study found that government-mandated restrictions too led to behavioural change, but the substantial part, at least in the American context, was voluntary.This serves to redouble focus on Covid-safe behaviour. In India, some states are expected to enter an election cycle, with an announcement of poll dates expected early next month. 
22-12-2021||India||Himalayan glaciers losing ice far quicker than others: Study||Himalayan glaciers are melting at an exceptional rate because of global warming, threatening the water supply of millions of people in Asia, a study published on Monday said.Glaciers in the Himalayas have lost ice 10 times more quickly in the past few decades than on average since the last major glacier expansion 400-700 years ago, a period known as the Little Ice Age, said the study published in Scientific Reports, a peer-reviewed journal of the Nature group of journals.The study, led by researchers at the University of Leeds School of Geography in the UK, found that 14,798 Himalayan glaciers have lost around 40% of their area compared to the Little Ice Age.“Our findings clearly show that ice is now being lost from Himalayan glaciers at a rate that is at least 10 times higher than the average rate over past centuries,” co-author Jonathan Carrivick of Leeds University said in a statement. “This acceleration in the rate of loss has only emerged within the last few decades, and coincides with human-induced climate change.”The eastern Himalayas are more sensitive to warming and glacier shrinkage, the study said, citing glaciers in east Nepal and Bhutan. The number and size of glacial lakes are increasing, which causes further acceleration glacier mass loss, the researchers said.“The glaciers will continue to shrink at a rapid pace till mid-century, leading to higher run-off. After mid-century, the run-off will gradually decrease as glaciated area would have reduced,” said Anil Kulkarni, glaciologist at the Divecha Centre for Climate Change in the Indian Institute of Science. “This will impact seasonality of water availability and total water availability in the region.”The Hindu Kush Himalayas experienced a temperature rise of as much as 1.3 degree Celsius between 1951 to 2014, a comprehensive study on climate change over India by the earth sciences ministry had said in June 2020. Several areas of Hindi Kush Himalayas have experienced a declining trend in snowfall and retreat of glaciers in recent decades, it said.The mountainous region will experience warming in the range of 2.6-4.6 degrees by the end of this century, the official Indian study predicted, which will cause severe hydrological and agricultural impacts in the country.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/himalayan-glaciers-losing-ice-far-quicker-than-others-study-101640110472562.html
22-12-2021||India||Omicron: 'Activate war rooms, consider night lockdowns', Centre asks states||States and union territories need to step up scrutiny of Covid-19 infection trends and consider steps like night lockdowns and bans on large gatherings if more than 10% of all tests in a week turn positive or if the occupancy of hospital beds breaches 40% of capacity, the Union government said in an advisory on Tuesday.The advisory was sent by health secretary Rajesh Bhushan to all state chief secretaries and UT administrators in light of the threat posed by the Omicron variant, which has triggered a new wave of Covid-19 in South Africa, UK, Denmark and several other regions.Also read | As Covid cases rise, Delhi govt begins ramping up its home isolation infra“Based on current scientific evidence, the variant of concern (VOC), Omicron, is at least 3 times more transmissible than the Delta VOC. Besides, the Delta VOC is still present in different parts of the country. Hence, even greater foresight, data analysis, dynamic decision making and strict & prompt containment action is required at the local and district level,” said Bhushan’s letter, calling for “prompt and focused” decisions by all authorities.In all, India has detected 220 cases of Omicron as on Tuesday, with 51 of these confirmed in the last 24 hours, according to data shared by states with HT. Of the total, 77 people who had the new VOC have recovered.States need to constantly review district-level data of “population affected by Covid-19, geographical spread, hospital infrastructure and its utilisation, manpower” and notify containment zones and enforce perimeter control so that “infection is contained at the local level itself before it spreads to other parts of the state”, the letter said.The letter added that the two thresholds it mentions – 10% test positivity and 40% hospital bed occupancy – are normative templates, and local officials can take measures based on population characteristics even before these thresholds are breached.The health secretary then specified “strategic areas of intervention” under five categories.On containment, the official suggested “imposition of night curfew; strict regulation of large gatherings; curtailing numbers in marriages and funerals; restricting numbers in offices, industries, public transport etc”.“ln case of all new clusters of Covid positive cases, prompt notification of containment zones, buffer zones should be done; strict perimeter control of containment zone as per extant guidelines must be ensured; and all cluster samples must be sent to INSACOG labs for genome sequencing without delay,” the letter said.On testing and surveillance, Bhushan recommended there be “door-to-door case search, testing of all severe acute respiratory infections-influenza like illness and of vulnerable and co-morbid people; ensuring right proportion of RT- PCR tests in total tests being conducted daily; contact-tracing of all Covid-positive persons and their timely testing; utilizing access to ‘air suvidha’ portal by state surveillance officers and district surveillance officers to monitor international passengers who have arrived in their states and districts”.For clinical management, the secretary said bed capacity and ambulance availability must be increased, and “mechanism for seamless shifting of patients, availability and operational readiness of oxygen equipment, buffer stock of drugs” should be ensured by utilizing the Emergency Covid Response Package-II funds released by the Centre, and other available resources.The existing National Clinical Management Protocol remains unchanged for Omicron.The Centre also recommended “stringent enforcement” of home isolation as per guidelines. “This would include, among others: customised kit for persons undergoing home isolation, their regular monitoring through call centers as well as home visits etc. This will be a very critical activity in the days to come specially to ensure that persons under home isolation do not spread the virus to others in view of its higher transmissibility,” the letter said.The fourth focus area was identified as vaccination. “Ensure 100% coverage of left-out first- and second-dose eligible beneficiaries in an accelerated manner; with special focus to be given to those districts where the first- and second-dose coverage is less than the national average. The door-to-door vaccination campaign needs to be strengthened,” the letter added.The letter called for improved community engagement and Covid-appropriate behavior.“Ensure advance engagement and information so that there is no misinformation or panic; transparent communication on hospital and testing infrastructure availability etc. Participation of community backed by strict enforcement is necessary for ensuring Covid-appropriate behavior,” the letter said.Experts said that test, track, treat and vaccination strategy will be critical. “Apart from having a good strategy, it is an important thing is to implement it well. It is important for people to understand that adhering to Covid-appropriate behaviour is an absolute must, especially wearing a mask and avoiding crowded places and maintaining physical distancing and hand hygiene irrespective of the variant in circulation,” said Dr GC Khilnani, former head of pulmonary medicine department, All India Institute of Medical Sciences, Delhi.
22-12-2021||India||Behind the policy and politics around inflation||Retail inflation in India rose 4.91% in November compared with a year ago. The rise was far from unprecedented. And of the 119 months for which data is available under the latest series of Consumer Price Index (CPI), inflation has been higher than 4.91% in 70 months.That statistical comfort notwithstanding, there are growing concerns around price rise in the country. The Wholesale Price Index (WPI), which acts as a proxy for producer prices, grew 14.23% in November, the highest since April 2012, the earliest period for which WPI data is available under the current series.There are valid reasons to be concerned about inflation, an HT analysis shows. What complicates matters even more is the fact that the current spike has come at a time when the economy has just recovered. Here are three charts that explain this in detail.The growing CPI-WPI divergence and the policy ghost of a former Chief Economic Advisor’s argumentThe past few months have seen a growing divergence between the retail and wholesale inflation. WPI growth was 9.32 percentage points higher in November. While there have been instances of divergence between CPI and WPI even in the past, the latest episode is a first when WPI has surged ahead of the CPI in such a big way. In absolute terms, the difference is similar to at least two episodes for data under the current series (mid-2015 and mid-2020), when CPI was far ahead of WPI. It has to be kept in mind, however, that CPI and WPI are very different in their composition.While the inflation-targeting framework mandates the central bank to maintain retail inflation within a band of two percentage points from 4%, the government’s former chief economic advisor once tried to subtly argue in favour of a easy monetary policy by citing WPI . In July 2015, Arvind Subramanian, then the chief economic advisor to the Narendra Modi government, wrote an article in the Indian Express at a time when WPI was lagging the CPI to argue that in exceptional times, there was some merit in questioning the prudence of relying solely on CPI for the conduct of monetary policy. “The monetary policy agreement between the ministry of finance and RBI, as well as the Urjit Patel report, has argued, not inappropriately, that the inflation target/objective should be based on CPI. In normal times, that would be completely unobjectionable. But are these normal times, when the price indicators are, frankly, pointing in dramatically different directions?” Subramanian wrote.If WPI lagging CPI then was good logic for a more accommodative monetary policy in the finance ministry, WPI surging significantly ahead of CPI now should suggest the reverse, namely, a reversal of the accommodative monetary policy stance in force for a long time.At least one member in this month’s monetary policy committee (MPC) meeting, Jayanth R Varma, expressed reservation on the part of MPC’s resolution that asked for continuing with “the accommodative stance as long as necessary to revive and sustain growth on a durable basis and continue to mitigate the impact of COVID-19 on the economy.”Consumer perception about inflation has been risingEconomic sentiment need not always correspond with numbers. The latest evidence on consumer perception around price rise, as seen in RBI’s Consumer Confidence Surveys (CCS), and the trajectory of the CPI, are a case in point. While headline inflation has actually declined in the past one year, consumer perception of it has taken an opposite trajectory. Net share of respondents who believe inflation has increased is at close to the all-time high seen in late 2012, the earliest year for which data is available in the surveys.Pandemic’s shock to incomes might have added to inflation’s pain There is another piece of evidence in the CCS that tells us why the inflationary pain could be greater than in the past, even though the numbers are far from their all-time high levels. It is because the latest price rise has been accompanied by a sharp fall in general income levels in the economy. This is best seen from the net sentiment metric on income levels in the CCS. While this value was positive in late 2012, when net perception about rise in inflation was the highest, it is minus 40.6% in the latest CCS round in November. This, when read with the evidence of a large increase in economic inequality after the pandemic and reports of the economic recovery being driven by profits rather than wages, suggests that a large majority of the population might still be facing an unprecedented double whammy of rising prices and falling incomes.To be sure, CCS only measures urban sentiment, and we do not have a similar high-frequency indicator for rural areas. However, the fact that food inflation has been lagging non-food prices means that farm incomes are being subjected to squeeze in the terms of trade.It is this ominous combination of inflation driven by non-food prices along with a widespread fall in income that might have increased the pain of the current inflationary environment. It also underlines the importance of political and not just economic management of inflation for the government, especially as it enters a critical state election cycle early next year.
22-12-2021||India||Bill on electoral reforms cleared, Oppn protests||The Rajya Sabha on Tuesday approved a proposed law that allows election officials to ask registered voters for Aadhaar details, despite protests and a walkout by the opposition, which said the controversial draft legislation infringed on a voter’s right to privacy.The Election Laws (Amendment) Bill, 2021, which proposes linking electoral rolls to the Aadhaar database on a voluntary basis and makes the language of India’s election law gender-neutral, was passed by the upper house by a voice vote. It was cleared by the Lok Sabha on Monday and now awaits the President’s consent to pass into law.A motion by opposition parties to send the draft legislation to a parliamentary select committee was defeated by a voice vote.The bill was “very good,” law minister Kiren Rijiju said, adding that it will help end bogus voting and make the electoral process credible. “This bill is opposed only by those who take advantage of fake voting,” Rijiju said. “Otherwise, there is no basis for opposing this bill.”Members of the Bharatiya Janata Party, Janata Dal(United), YSR Congress Party, All India Anna Dravida Munnetra Kazhagam, Biju Janata Dal and Tamil Maanila Congress supported the bill, saying it will help in eliminating duplicate voters.But lawmakers from the Congress, Trinamool Congress, Left parties, Dravida Munnetra Kazhagam, and Samajwadi Party opposed the bill, and said it might lead to mass disenfranchisement.“It’s a violation of the right to privacy granted by the Constitution. It will cause disenfranchisement of a large number of voters. It will exploit the voters and disadvantaged class of our society… This bill was brought without giving right of hearing,” said Amee Yagnik of the Congress.In his speech, Rijiju said the Election Commission of India and the government met many times and the election watchdog’s biggest concern was the lack of a system to check duplicate voters. “In our democracy, the electoral process should be clean, and that can happen only if the electoral rolls are clean,” he said.As Rijiju spoke, the opposition shouted slogans, waving placards and protesting in the well of the house. They demanded a division of votes as they had moved a motion to send the bill to a select committee. The motion was rejected by a voice vote.TMC member Derek O’Brien and other opposition leaders raised objections over not having sufficient time to scrutinise the bill. “Where is the time to present a resolution asking for a select committee? Forget about merits and demerits,” he said.O’Brien cited rules for a division of votes even as deputy chairman Harivansh urged members to go to their seats. “I am ready to give division but the members should first go to their seats. Being in the well of the house is unparliamentary. The chair cannot allow division in this situation,” the deputy chairperson said.When the division didn’t happen, O’Brien threw the rule book on the table where officials sit and walked out of the House. Other opposition leaders joined him.Leader of the house Piyush Goyal and labour minister Bhupendra Yadav criticised O’Brien. Goyal demanded the TMC leader apologise for his behaviour. “The way he threw the rule book, he just did not insult the chair or secretary general or table office, but the entire nation,” Goyal said.O’Brien was suspended for the rest of the winter session hours later. “After breaking every rule and precedent, BJP have the gall to give lecture about the rule book #Parliament. Irony just died,” he said.The bill proposes an amendment to Section 23 of the Representation of the People Act (RP Act), 1950, allowing the linking of electoral roll data with the Aadhaar database to “curb the menace of multiple enrolment of the same person in different places”.In 2015, the poll watchdog undertook pilot projects to use Aadhaar data to remove duplication and fake entries from electoral rolls before the Supreme Court struck down the exercise. In the 2017 Puttaswamy judgment, the top court enumerated only certain areas – mostly subsidies – for which Aadhaar could be made mandatory. The government in 2019 amended the Aadhaar Act, allowing for the 12-digit identity number to be used for more utilities and services.Opposition parties and digital privacy groups say the draft legislation could have implications on privacy and potential voter profiling.The bill, however, says that no application for inclusion of name in the electoral roll “shall be denied and no entries in the electoral roll shall be deleted for inability of an individual to furnish or intimate Aadhaar number due to such sufficient cause as may be prescribed, provided that such individual may be allowed to furnish such other alternate documents as may be prescribed”.The bill further proposes a change to Clause (b) of section 14 of the RP Act 1950, allowing voters to register four times a year, instead of just once. The new dates for registration will be January 1, April 1, July 1 and October 1.The draft legislation also calls for substitution of the word wife with the word spouse in the RP Act. It seeks to enable the requisition of premises for the purpose of being polling stations, counting, storage of ballot boxes, voting machines and poll related materials by proposing a change to Section 160 of the RP Act, 1951.
22-12-2021||India||People consciously not taking jabs pose greater risk, says Bombay high court||People taking a conscious decision to not vaccinate against Covid-19 are not entitled to the same treatment given to inoculated persons, the Bombay high court said on Tuesday while upholding the Mumbai Port Trust’s direction that unvaccinated employees have to produce negative test results every 10 days at their own cost. It was “a reasonable restriction on fundamental rights of the Petitioners to carry out their occupation or trade,” the court said. “We are convinced that persons taking a conscious decision not to vaccinate themselves are effectively deciding to place themselves at a greater risk of contracting and/or transmitting the disease than a vaccinated person,” a division bench of justices SJ Kathawalla and Abhay Ahuja said. “While the Petitioners’ decision not to take the vaccination is well respected, that does not mean that they are ipso facto entitled to the same treatment as that given to vaccinated persons by the MPT,” the bench said, dismissing a petition filed by seven employees of the port authority. On June 15, the MPT had directed that with effect from the following day, employees who have not been vaccinated will be required to pay for their treatment in case they contracted Covid-19, and will not be permitted to attend office unless they produced a negative test report at their own cost every 10 days. Some employees moved court on August 5 against the circular, saying it discriminated between vaccinated and unvaccinated employees and violated their fundamental rights. No meaningful distinction could be made between vaccinated and unvaccinated persons, and both stood on the same footing in terms of their likelihood to transmit Covid-19, lawyer Aditi Saxena argued for the petitioners. Vaccination was a voluntary act, the disgruntled employees argued. They produced a right to information response by the health ministry to support their contention. Denying the premise that both vaccinated and unvaccinated persons are equally susceptible to transmitting the virus, the court said that the charge was of a “general” nature and “did not contain reference to any scientific material”. The bench relied on material submitted by Shiraj Rustomjee, a friend of the court, which included information provided by medical experts and the World Health Organization, which pointed out that vaccinated persons are far less likely to contract or transmit Covid-19. Even in the case of such breakthrough infections, the severity of the infection and the risk of transmission of the disease are significantly reduced in vaccinated persons and, hence, “it is erroneous to hold that because breakthrough infections are possible in vaccinated persons, they stand on the same footing as unvaccinated persons,” the court held. “The Government of Maharashtra has, in its various Break the Chain orders which have been annexed by the MPT, imposed the same requirement for unvaccinated individuals to carry a negative RT-PCR result certificate with a 15-day validity period,” the judges observed. The port trust had provided free vaccination to its employees and the vast majority had got themselves inoculated, lawyer Rahul Jain said, appearing for the MPT. It is reasonable for a large organization such as the MPT to require a higher degree of checking and monitoring of the Covid-19 status of unvaccinated persons, the court said. “We see no reason in law as to why MPT should be compelled to bear the cost of such treatment when it is offering the alternative of vaccination free of charge and is also willing to bear the cost of treating breakthrough infections in such cases free of charge,” the bench said. “In fact, it is the Petitioners’ demands that now appear to us to be unreasonable, and not the other way around.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/people-consciously-not-taking-jabs-pose-greater-risk-says-bombay-high-court-101640109453180.html
22-12-2021||India||Jaipur’s royal family settles property dispute||A protracted legal battle between members of the erstwhile Jaipur royal family over ownership of luxury heritage hotels Jai Mahal and Rambagh Palace has been resolved by a mediator appointed by the Supreme Court. Devraj Singh and Lalitya Kumari, grandchildren of former Jaipur queen Gayatri Devi, have got Jai Mahal palace, and their step-uncles Jai Singh and Vijit Singh have got the Rambagh Palace under an amicable settlement mediated by retired Supreme Court judge Kurian Joseph, who submitted a report on the matter.The settlement was confirmed by advocate Abhishek Kumar Rao, who has been representing Devraj Singh and Lalitya Kumari in the court cases. A bench comprising justices R Subhash Reddy and Hrisikesh Roy noted the submissions of the parties that retired justice Joseph had submitted after successfully concluding the mediation. The memorandum of settlement signed by the parties was sent to the court, which has taken it on record on December 15. “In view of the settlement arrived at between the parties, learned counsels on both sides made a request to dispose of these appeals in terms of settlement. In view of the request made, these appeals are disposed of with a direction that all the parties concerned shall abide by the terms of the settlement. The order impugned stands modified, in terms of the Memorandum of Settlement dated 15.12.2021,” the court said. These civil appeals are filed aggrieved by the common order dated 12.03.2020 in Company Appeal (AT) Nos 329 of 2018, 270 of 2018 and 271 of 2018 passed by the National Company Law Appellate Tribunal at New Delhi.The subject matter of these appeals relate to disputes regarding ownership and shareholding between the appellant group and the respondent group in Jai Mahal Hotels Pvt Ltd and Rambagh Palace Hotel (P) Limited.Devraj Singh and Lalitya Kumari had filed two separate appeals last year against the 2018 orders of the National Company Law Appellate Tribunal with respect to the ownership and shareholding of in Jai Mahal and Rambagh Palace. Jai Singh and Vijit Singh, their step-uncles, were the respondents.  Devraj Singh and Lalitya Kumari will now get Jai Mahal from their step-uncles and their heirs, who had taken it over in 1997.“Erstwhile members of royal family, Jai Singh and Vijit Singh, agreed to handover the Jai Mahal palace to our clients under an amicable settlement arrived between them all on December 15,” Rao said. In turn, Devraj Singh and Lalitya Kumari will give up some of their rights in other property, the lawyer said.Members of the erstwhile royal family refused to comment on the settlement, saying it was an internal family matter.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/jaipurs-royal-family-settles-property-dispute-101640109213140.html
22-12-2021||India||Gupkar alliance rejects delimitation panel’s recommendations, plans stir||A six-party alliance pushing for the restoration of Jammu and Kashmir’s special status rejected the draft recommendations of the delimitation commission on Tuesday and said it will hold a protest in Srinagar on January 1 against the “unacceptable and divisive” proposals.At a meeting on Monday, the three-member delimitation commission proposed adding six assembly seats in the Jammu region and one in Kashmir. The panel, which has lawmakers from the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) and the National Conference (NC) as associate members, also proposed reserving nine seats for scheduled tribes and seven for scheduled castes, a first in the Union Territory.If the proposal is cleared, the total number of poll constituencies will rise from 83 to 90, with 43 in the Jammu region and 47 in Kashmir. In the current state House, Jammu has 37 members and Kashmir has 46.The Peoples Alliance for Gupkar Declaration (PAGD), which was set up on October 20, 2020 to fight for the restoration of special status of Jammu and Kashmir under article 370,met on Tuesday at the Jammu residence of NC president Farooq Abdullah to discuss the draft proposal. The meeting was chaired by Abdullah and attended by the Peoples Democratic Party president Mehbooba Mufti, Communist Party of India (Marxist) general secretary Mohammad Yusuf Tarigami, Awami National Conference vice president, Muzuffar Shah and other leaders.“Alliance leadership wants peace and not the confrontation. For the legitimate rights of people, we will be raising our voice peacefully. On January 1, we will be holding peaceful protest in Srinagar against the proposal of delimitation commission, which is unacceptable to all of us and all the people and all the communities,” said Tarigami.“The proposals of delimitation commission...are divisive and is not in the interests of people of Jammu and Kashmir,,” he added.The delimitation commission, which aims to carve out new poll constituencies in the region, was set up in March 2020 with five parliament members from the UT as associate members. The delimitation process is important because it is the first step towards holding fresh elections in the region that has been under central rule for three years.Jammu and Kashmir lost its special status and statehood on August 5, 2019, when the central government moved to void Article 370 of the Constitution. At a landmark all-party meeting in June, Prime Minister Narendra Modi told leaders of political parties that statehood will be restored after fresh elections are held in the region, on the basis of the delimitation process.But parties from the region, which remains bitterly opposed to the scrapping of its special status, want statehood to be restored before delimitation and elections – a demand rejected by the Centre.Tarigami said that delimitation in the region should have happened along with the rest of the country but the BJP wanted to divide people on religion and regional lines. “And the fresh draft proposal if accepted, will create divisions. This is a step to divide people on regional and community lines. BJP’s plan is to divide people not only in country but also in J&K,” he said.He said that If these proposals are accepted, the crisis of J&K will deepen further . “This decision will break the heart of the people. We request the government, delimitation commission, Parliament and leaders of political parties that they should hear our aspirations,” he added.Tarigami said that alliance wanted peace and not confrontation. “For the legitimate rights of the people, we will raise our voice peacefully.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/gupkar-alliance-rejects-delimitation-panel-s-recommendations-plans-stir-101640108794677.html
22-12-2021||India||DGCA makes breathalyser checks more stringent||Aviation regulator Directorate General of Civil Aviation (DGCA) on Monday asked airlines to have an MBBS doctor, a trained paramedic or an emergency medical technician to conduct pre-flight breathalyser checks on pilots, making the process more stringent to crack down on flying under the influence.Another test will be conducted upon arrival at the destination, DGCA said. If tested positive for the first time, a pilot will be given the option of getting retested using the same equipment or an alternative one. In 2019, the aviation regulator asked Air India to terminate the services of one of its pilots who failed the test. The pilot, flying as an additional crew member, had failed the test once earlier as well.‘It is a well-known fact that even when the blood alcohol levels are zero in the body, there could be some effect of hangover, which is mainly due to congeners... Even 12 hours after a bout of drink, when blood alcohol level remains zero, there is a decrement in task performance. Alcohol present in the body even in small quantities jeopardises flight safety on several counts and is likely to adversely affect an aviator well into the hangover period,” the revised air safety civil aviation requirement (CAR) document said.Making the CAR more robust, e DGCA said that crew members of all flights (including non-scheduled operators) originating from India will be subjected to a pre-flight breathalyser examination at the first departure airport. Where adequate infrastructure does not exist, the flight and cabin crew will have to undergo a post-flight examination.“If the result is positive, repeat testing will be carried out after an interval of maximum 20-25 minutes. As per the previous CAR, the time between the first and second test was around 15 minutes. Once a crew member is detected positive, medical personnel on duty will provide the pro forma and the crew personnel shall give a declaration in respect of the use of equipment (same or alternative) for the conduct of a second test,” said a DGCA official, adding that under the previous CAR, a request for change of equipment was to be made by the crew member in writing.During this time, DGCA said the crew member will be allowed to wash his face and rinse his mouth, if required. “Before the second test is carried out, a control test must be taken on the equipment being used, to verify the serviceability and correctness of the equipment. Both the readings so obtained will be recorded and a printout taken,” the revised CAR said.The regulator stressed the importance of intensifying the educational programme for crew members about the inherent dangers of flying after consumption of alcohol.The revised rules also clarified that post-flight tests for all scheduled flights originating from destinations outside the country will be carried out at the first port of landing in India.“In case of diversion of flights, due to unforeseen circumstances, to an airport or in Aircraft on Ground (AOG) condition, where facility for pre-flight examination is not available, the flight crew and cabin crew shall undergo post-flight examination at first landing,” the revised rules said.All positive/missed results shall be promptly reported but not later than 24 hours of occurrence to the concerned regional air safety offices of the DGCA and the director of air safety. Test recordings shall be preserved for six months.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/dgca-makes-breathalyser-checks-more-stringent-101640108793309.html
22-12-2021||India||Instagram accounts of my children hacked: Priyanka Gandhi Vadra||Days after Samajwadi Party chief Akhilesh Yadav accused Uttar Pradesh chief minister Yogi Adityanath of getting his telephones tapped, Congress general secretary Priyanka Gandhi on Tuesday claimed that the state government had hacked the Instagram accounts of her two children. “Leave phone tapping… The Instagram accounts of my children (Miraya Vadra and Raihan Vadra) have also been hacked,” Priyanka told reporters here when asked about accusations of phone tapping against the state government.“Does this government not have any other work,” she added. The Congress leader also said that her ‘Ladki hoon, lad sakti hoon’ (I’m a girl and can fight) campaign had forced Prime Minister Narendra Modi to hold an interaction with women beneficiaries and self-help groups in Prayagraj. “UP women can see. You just stretched yourself and Prime Minister @narendramodi has succumbed before you. This is just the beginning. There is going to be a storm of women power. Unity of women will bring about a revolution,” she tweeted in Hindi. The Congress has announced that it will give 40 percent of tickets to women candidates in the Uttar Pradesh assembly elections due next year.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/instagram-accounts-of-my-children-hacked-priyanka-gandhi-vadra-101640108734697.html
22-12-2021||India||TMC sweeps Kolkata civic polls with 72% vote share||The Trinamool Congress (TMC) won the Kolkata Municipal Corporation (KMC) polls with comfortable margins in 134 wards, while the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) came second with three seats and the Congress and the Left won from two civic wards each in results declared on Tuesday. Independent candidates secured the remaining three of the 144 wards in the Bengal capital. The BJP, which was in control of five wards in the last civic board, lost control over two. The TMC’s tally was set to touch 137 as the three independent candidates expressed eagerness to join the ruling party. These seats were reserved for women and the winners are relatives of local TMC leaders. Independent candidate Rubina Naaz, who won from ward No. 135 and is the wife of a local TMC leader, declared that she will join the ruling party immediately.Two other winners, Purbasha Naskar and Ayesha Kaniz, said they were willing to join the TMC as well. “We can work more for the people if we are with the ruling party,” said Kaniz, who is the wife of dissident leader Irfan Ali Taaj. “Rubina came to me and expressed her wish. We have accepted her appeal. I have not talked to the other two independent winners till now,” said former Kolkata mayor and transport minister Firhad Hakim, who won from ward No. 82 for the fourth time in a row. Amid buzz that Hakim may become the mayor once again, chief minister Mamata Banerjee left everyone guessing.“Our party will meet in Kolkata at 2pm on December 23 and select the mayor,” said Banerjee before leaving for Guwahati where she offered prayers at the famous Kamakshya temple. Her party leaders described the trip as a private one. Banerjee will return to Kolkata by the evening flight, they said. “The BJP and Left have been wiped out by the people of Kolkata. The Congress has been sandwiched between these two losers. This reflects on national politics as well. I firmly believe that Bengal and Kolkata will show the path to the people of India,” said Banerjee who is eyeing electoral inroads in Goa and Uttar Pradesh where assembly polls will be held in a few months. The TMC’s vote share stood at 72%. The BJP had a vote share of around 8.9% while the Left secured 11.7% and the Congress secured 4.13% respectively.Left candidates came second on 65 seats. The Congress secured the second position on 16 seats while the BJP became the first runner-up on 48 seats. The TMC leadership said it was the victory of Kolkata’s citizens. “People of Kolkata have once again proven that politics of HATE & VIOLENCE have NO PLACE in BENGAL! I thank everyone for blessing us with such a huge mandate. We are truly humbled and shall always remain committed in our goals towards YOUR BETTERMENT! Thank you Kolkata,” tweeted TMC national general secretary Abhishek Banerjee.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/tmcsweeps-kolkata-civic-polls-with-72-vote-share-101640108733409.html
22-12-2021||India||Akhilesh promises caste census in UP if SP voted to power||There will be a caste census in Uttar Pradesh within three months of the Samajwadi Party being voted to power in the upcoming assembly elections early next year, Akhilesh Yadav promised on Tuesday, saying such an enumeration was necessary to ensure communities get rights according to their share in the population. “We are committed to a caste-based census, and will get it done within three months of coming to power in Uttar Pradesh so that the deserving can get rights according to their share in population,” Yadav said in an election rally at the Christian College ground in Mainpuri where he flagged off the eighth phase of the party’s Vijay Yatra to Etah.A caste-based counting of the population is a major issue in Uttar Pradesh and Bihar. Bihar chief minister Nitish Yadav recently led a delegation to meet Prime Minister Narendra Modi in Delhi to discuss the matter. It is believed that a caste census would lead to an increase in the reservation quota of other backward classes in government jobs and educational institutions. The Samajwadi Party chief also alleged that the Income Tax department, Enforcement Directorate (ED) that investigates financial crimes and the Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI) were now extensions of the Bhartiya Janata Party and they become active in states headed for assembly elections. “Once we got into alliance with chacha ki party (Pragatisheel Samajwadi Party headed by his uncle Shivpal Yadav), there began a series of raids in the state” he said, referring to raids by taxmen in the premises of people considered close to him. “More such visits would be made by the BJP prakoshth (organizational cells) in Delhi. The CBI, ED and Income Tax department are behaving more like organizational cells of the BJP,” Yadav said. “They got active in Maharashtra, West Bengal and are now active in UP. However, they will not be able to avert the historic defeat of the BJP in Uttar Pradesh, as in other states.”Yadav said, contrary to the claims of the BJP government, law and order in the state is at its worst. “Law and order is at its worst and crimes against women are rising, but the UP government only changed the number of Dial 100 service to 112,” He said. “The six Jan Vishwas Yatras of the BJP are proving a flop and, in contrast, lakhs are coming on their own to be part of the Samajwadi Party’s Vijay Yatra.” 
22-12-2021||India||Word ‘lynching’ was unheard of before 2014, says Rahul, stirs row||Congress leader Rahul Gandhi on Tuesday attacked Prime Minister Narendra Modi over growing incidents of mob killings across the country, saying the word “lynching” was unheard of before 2014, when the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) came to power.Hitting back, the BJP raked up the anti-Sikh riots of 1984 and called former prime minister Rajiv Gandhi the “father of mob lynching”. Taking a swipe at the Prime Minister, Gandhi tweeted: “Before 2014, the word ‘lynching’ was practically unheard of. #ThankYouModiJi.” Gandhi’s remarks came days after two people were lynched over alleged attempts of sacrilege in Congress-ruled Punjab. While one man was lynched at the Golden Temple in Amritsar on December 18, another was beaten to death inside a gurudwara in Kapurthala district. Taking a jibe at Gandhi over his comment, BJP spokesperson Tom Vadakkan said: “The dynast should remember 1984 and the anti-Sikh riots — that’s what set precedent to the act of lynching.” Vadakkan, who was a key aide of Congress president Sonia Gandhi till he joined the BJP in 2019, also attacked his former party over the recent lynchings in Punjab. “Why is Congress dragging BJP into this state (Punjab) matter? This is their election game plan,” he said. The state is slated to go to polls next year. Former Union minister and senior BJP leader Prakash Javadekar also hit out at Gandhi, saying: “Get facts right. 2000+ Sikhs were lynched in 1984 & Congress justified it. Selective amnesia will not work. We condemn all lynching.” Speaking to reporters, Union minister Ashwini Kumar Choubey noted that hundreds of Sikhs were killed in the 1984 riots, for which some Congress leaders were blamed, and also referred to the 1989 Bhagalpur riots to ask if these were not lynchings. “Mobs killed Sikhs by burning tyres around their necks. Wasn’t it lynching?” he asked.More than 2,700 Sikhs were killed in the national capital alone during the 1984 riots which erupted after former prime minister Indira Gandhi was assassinated by two Sikh bodyguards. A Supreme Court recommendation in 2018 to enact a special law to penalise lynching is still pending consideration.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/word-lynching-was-unheard-of-before-2014-says-rahul-stirs-row-101640108253079.html
22-12-2021||India||Jharkhand assembly passes bill against mob lynching||The Jharkhand assembly on Tuesday cleared the Prevention of Mob Violence and Mob Lynching Bill, 2021 that provides for jail terms ranging from three years to life imprisonment and fines of up to ₹25 lakh against those involved in mob lynching leading to “injury or death” of an individual.The bill, opposed by the opposition BJP in its present form with a demand to send it to a select committee, provides for punishment for “conspiracy or abetment or attempt to lynch”; “obstructing legal process”; “dissemination of offensive material” and “enforcing a hostile environment”, besides compensation for victims under a state government scheme.With the passage of the bill, Jharkhand became the third state after West Bengal and Rajasthan to have put in place such a law. A law to this effect was an electoral promise of all three constituents of the incumbent JMM-Congress-RJD combine in the 2019 assembly polls. Mob lynching was a major poll issue in the wake of a series of such incidents in Jharkhand in the past few years.An incident on June 17, 2019 made national headlines, in which 24-year-old Tabrez Ansari was tied to a pole and beaten to death by a mob at Dhatkidih village in Seraikela Kharsawan district on suspicion of theft. Ansari was purportedly seen in a video being forced to chant “Jai Shri Ram” and “Jai Hanuman” by the attackers. On June 22, he succumbed to his injuries in judicial custody.“The law has been made to ensure people live in peace, harmony and brotherhood. It will now ensure people live and work in the state without any sense of fear,” chief minister Hemant Soren told reporters after the bill was passed in the assembly.According to the new law, in any incident where the act leads to the victim suffering hurt, the convicts shall be punished with imprisonment of either description for a term which may extend to three years and with a fine which shall not be less than ₹1 lakh and may extend up to ₹3 lakh.“...where the act leads to the victim suffering grievous hurt, it shall be punished with imprisonment for life, or with imprisonment of either description for a term which may extend to ten years, and with fine which shall not be less than three lakh rupees and may extend up to five lakh rupees...where the act leads to the death of the victim, shall be punished with rigorous imprisonment for life and with fine which shall not be less than ₹25 lakh, and the movable and immovable properties shall be attached,” the bill said.Besides punishment for being involved in lynching, the bill aims to put in place a top-to-bottom mechanism, with an inspector general-rank police officer to be appointed as a nodal officer, with clearly laid-out powers and duties “to prevent acts of lynching” and “exercise authority against mobs”.In total, 12 amendments were moved by legislators, with the highest nine coming from BJP members, one each from the Ajsu Party, CPI(ML) and an independent legislator. However, all of these including two from the BJP to send the bill to a select committee were turned down during the discussion on the bill by voice vote. The BJP legislators walked out of the House in protest.Party legislator Amit Mandal, who moved five amendments, said the government seemed to have brought the bill in haste.“The officials who have framed the draft of the bill seemed to have invented a new definition of mob. They describe a mob as a group of two or more persons. They should check the definition of mob in Oxford dictionary. Also, immense arbitrary power is being given to the police and district magistrate that could be misused even for trivial issues, even against political opponents,” Mandal said in the House.Another BJP legislator Anant Ojha said the law had been made with an eye of appeasement of a particular community.“The way the bill was brought and passed in the House, it is clear that it has been done as per this government’s appeasement policy. The law has been brought to divert attention from government failures,” said Ojha. Parliamentary affairs minister Alamgir Alam defended the provisions, saying the bill was brought in the light of Supreme Court directions on the issue.
22-12-2021||India||HT THIS DAY: Dec 22, 1949 - Sovereignty Transfer to Indonesia||Queen Juliana today signed the Bill making Indonesia a sovereign and independent State after 300 years of Dutch rule. The Bill had earlier in the day been passed by the Netherlands Senate by 34 votes to 15.This was the last step in legalizing the actual transfer of sovereignty at a special ceremony in Amsterdam next Tuesday when the Indonesian Premier, Dr Mohammed Hatta, will accept the transfer on behalf of the United States of Indonesia.All four Communist Senators were among those who opposed the Bill. The Catholic People’s Party and the Labour Party voted for it. The United States of Indonesia delegation which will formally assume sovereignty will leave Batavia for Amsterdam by air on Friday. Principal members of the delegation will be Dr Hatta, the Minister of Justice, Prof. Supomo, Sultan Hamid of Pontianak, Dr Suparmo and the Supreme Court President, Dr Kusuma Atmadja. In Batavia, the Dutch forces today completed the main stage of their withdrawal from the interior of Java and Sumatra to coastal concentration centres. The main Dutch forces are now awaiting evacuation in the Batavia, Sourabaya, Bandoeng, Buitenzorg, Semarang, Padang, Palembang and Medan areas.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/htthisdaydec-22-1949-sovereignty-transfer-to-indonesia-101640106993315.html
22-12-2021||India||Visa applications from India more than doubled in Nov when compared to Jan||Just before the news of the new Covid-19 variant- Omicron spread, India saw more than double visa applications in November as compared to January this year. According to visa major VFS, the opening of international borders with the easing of travel restrictions, rise in vaccination coverage and pent-up demand for travel, led to a spike in visa applications from India.VFS Global said that visa applications received in India until November 21, 2021, more than doubled vis-à-vis volumes witnessed in January 2021. “Visa applications came for many destinations opening their borders for international travellers such as Canada, Europe, UK, and the USA among others,” its spokesperson said. Travel portal, EaseMyTrip (EMT) said that there is a strong travel sentiment even right now. “We are seeing that people who do not want to travel right now due to Omicron scare, are just postponing their travel instead of completely cancelling their plans. According to EMT, Dubai, Maldives, Abu Dhabi are the most preferred international destinations witnessing the highest advance bookings with Dubai being the top booked destination by Indians and the Middle east being majorly driven by leisure and business travel. “The steady rise in visa applications demonstrates strong intent to travel. Since the restart period happened to overlap with the peak students’ season in India, students comprised a large section of international travellers from India, followed by business travellers and tourists visiting families,” said Pranav Sinha, head, South Asia, VFS Global. As per VFS Global, a significant recovery in travellers’ sentiments as a three-fold rise in visa applications was seen since June 2021. According to Prahlad Krishnamurti, chief business officer, Cleartrip, international demand slightly decreased in December as compared to last month. The pandemic remains volatile in the light of new variants, but according to industry experts, it is too early to see an impact on travel behaviour. Kapil Kaul, chief executive officer (CEO) of CAPA India said, “It is too early to comment but short term impact is visible.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/visa-applications-from-india-more-than-doubled-in-november-when-compared-to-january-101640102673500.html
22-12-2021||India||Odisha reports first cases of Omicron as new variant infects over 200 in India||Odisha on Tuesday reported the first cases of the Omicron variant of the Covid-19 virus after two men, who recently returned from Nigeria and Qatar, tested positive for the new strain. The development came on a day when the total number of Omicron cases in India touched 200.Ajay Parida, the director of Bhubaneswar’s Institute of Life Sciences, said during the genome sequencing of seven samples tested for Covid-19, two came positive for the Omicron variant. He added the reports of five other samples were awaited.The two Omicron-infected patients are aged 41 and 43 and belong to Jagatsingpur and Khordha districts. One of them is asymptomatic while the other has a mild cough.“Contact tracing of 21 persons, who were in touch with these two have been done and samples have been sent for testing,” said director, public health, Niranjan Mishra. Odisha has made it mandatory for anyone testing positive for Omicron to be hospitalised.Around 8,800 passengers have arrived in Odisha this month. Of them, around 1,600 came from countries declared at-risk following the detection of the Omicron variant.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/odisha-reports-first-cases-of-omicron-as-new-variant-infects-over-200-in-india-101640078852858.html
22-12-2021||India||India blocks 20 YouTube channels linked to ‘Pak disinformation campaign’||The ministry of information and broadcasting (I&B) on Tuesday said it has ordered the blocking of two Kashmir-related websites and 20 YouTube channels as they “belong to a coordinated disinformation network operating from Pakistan”.The two separate orders for the channels and website were the first to be issued by the ministry under the new information technology rules notified on February 25 this year.According to the ministry, they were issued in a “coordinated effort with intelligence agencies”.“The channels were used to post divisive content in a coordinated manner on topics like Kashmir, Indian Army, minority communities in India, Ram Mandir, (the late CDS) General Bipin Rawat, etc,” the ministry said in a statement.Among the 20 YouTube channels ordered to be blocked are those launched by The Naya Pakistan Group (NPG), operating from Pakistan, which has a network of YouTube channels and a combined subscriber base of at least 3.5 million. Their videos have had over 550 million views, the ministry said.“Some of the YouTube channels of the NPG were being operated by anchors of Pakistani news channels,” it added.The 20 channels include The Punch Line, International Web News, Khalsa TV, The Naked Truth, News 24, 48 news, Fictional Historical Facts, Punjab Viral, Naya Pakistan Global and Cover Story.Besides the channels, the Kashmir Global and Kashmir Watch websites were ordered to be blocked in their entirety.Speaking to reporters, I&B minister Anurag Thakur said an inquiry was conducted to assess the attempts to spread anti-India content from across the border. “These channels and web portals were in violation of the law,” he said. “Strict action has been taken against websites which seek to promote Pakistan’s agenda and prevent them from working against India.”The statement issued by the ministry also shared screenshots and instances of fake news that were being put out by these YouTube channels.According to the government, The Punch Line claimed in one report that 20 Indian Army generals were killed at a training facility in Kashmir by “Kashmir mujaheddin”. Another report in the same channel claimed Turkish President Tayyip Erdogan has decided to build a mosque in place of Ram Mandir in Ayodhya. A third example listed a report in Naya Pakistan Global channel that North Korean leader Kim Jong-un has sent his army to Ayodhya.The two orders to block the YouTube channels and websites were issued by information and broadcasting secretary Apurva Chandra, invoking his emergency powers under the Information Technology (Intermediary Guidelines and Digital Media Ethics Code) Rules notified earlier this year.“And whereas, after having gone through the information published by the aforementioned websites, I am satisfied that information posted on the above-mentioned websites is detrimental to the sovereignty and integrity of India, defence of India, and security of the state, and therefore falls within the ambit of section 69(A) of the IT Act,” Chandra said in his interim order to the department of telecom.This is the first time that the I&B ministry has invoked its powers under the new IT rules.Earlier, orders to block websites could only be issued by the ministry of electronics and information technology or the department of telecom under the IT Act and the Indian Telegraph Rules, 1951.The new rules, which introduced an ethics code for digital media, required the appointment of grievance redressal officers, the creation of a three-tier mechanism for grievance redressal with an inter-ministerial committee at its apex , and defined the process to be followed by the I&B ministry on dealing with content that violates the code.The interim order by Chandra will be placed in front of the inter-departmental committee for review. The inter-departmental committee forms the apex of the three-tier redressal mechanism, which includes a self-regulatory mechanism followed by regulation by industry bodies.The committee, in a first, also has members from the industry body — one member each from the Federation of Indian Chambers of Commerce & Industry and Confederation of Indian Industry, one member from the Bar Council of India and a member from the Press Council of India.Besides these, the committee also has members from ministries, including those from the ministries of women and child development, law and justice, home affairs, electronics and information technology, external affairs and defence.The latest IT rules have been challenged in court by several digital news media outfits, including LiveLaw and TheWire.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/block-2-kashmir-websites-20-youtube-channels-orders-i-b-ministry-under-new-it-rules-101640077171039.html
