23-12-2021||India||Delhi and Mumbai witness spike in Covid cases as Omicron triggers alarm||Delhi and Mumbai continued to register a sharp rise in coronavirus cases on Thursday amid fears of rapid spread of the Omicron variant of Covid-19 across the country.While Delhi recorded 118 new cases of Covid-19 for the third consecutive day, Mumbai logged 602 fresh infections, the city’s highest single-day tally in 77 days.Delhi's Thursday's figures of new Covid-19 cases were, however, marginally lower than Wednesday's figures of 125 infections when the national capital registered the biggest jump in new cases in 24 hours in six months. Mumbai too witnessed a rise in the daily caseload having logged 480 cases on Wednesday.With this, the cumulative Covid-19 tally of Delhi climbed to 14,42,633, while Mumbai case count increased to 7,68,750.Also Read | Covid-19: Stay at home, Delhi govt strengthening home isolation system, says CM KejriwalBoth the metro cities also registered a fresh death due to the virus, following which Mumbai's death toll reached 16,367 and Delhi's to 25,103.The latest spikes come amid rising concerns over the Omicron’s spread with the nationwide tally nearing the 300-mark.While Delhi did not register any fresh case from the new variant during the day, Maharashtra reported 23 new cases of which five were in Mumbai. This pushed the state’s Omicron tally to 88. Delhi has so far reported at least 64 infections of the new ‘variant of concern’ most of whom have not shown any symptom and have been discharged after testing negative for the virus.Among other states Tamil Nadu, Karnataka, Telangana and Rajasthan have been the worst-hit so far by the highly transmissible variant.Meanwhile, the Delhi Disaster Management Authority (DDMA) has announced a ban on all cultural events and gatherings ahead of Christmas and New Year in wake of rising Omicron cases. However, it has allowed religious places to remain open for prayers.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/delhi-and-mumbai-witness-spike-in-covid-cases-as-omicron-triggers-alarm-101640277801466.html
23-12-2021||India||Telangana court orders curbs on festivals after spurt in Omicron cases||Expressing concern over the growing number of cases of Omicron in Telangana, the state high court on Thursday asked the government to strictly impose restrictions on Christmas, New Year and Sankranti festival celebrations.There were, however, no fresh cases of Omicron in the state on Thursday, even as genome sequencing reports of 10 more Covid-19 patients are still awaited.A division bench of the Telangana high court consisting of chief justice Satish Chandra Sharma and Justice N Tukaramji directed that the state government strictly comply with the latest directives issued by the Central government to prevent the spread of the Omicron variant of Coronavirus.The high court bench directed that the state government take up all steps for the control and management of large public gatherings during the ensuing festival season. “The mass gathering of people without wearing masks and following minimum precautions is a matter of concern,” it said.The bench suggested that the government consider setting up a mechanism to test people coming from other states at the airports and quarantine them, if necessary. It said there was a need to prevent inter-state spread of the new variant.State health minister T Harish Rao told reporters that the state government would follow all the directions given by the court. He asked the Centre to take a decision on giving booster doses of the Covid-19 vaccine to the people to contain the spread of the virus.A village in Rajanna Siricilla district on Thursday went into a self-imposed lockdown for 10 days following the detection of an Omicron case on Wednesday.A 28-year-old man, who returned from Dubai to his native village of Gudem in Mustabad block on December 16, tested positive for the virus on December 20. His wife and mother also tested positive for Covid-19 a day later.The throat swab samples of the man and his family members were sent to the Centre for Cellular and Molecular Biology for genome sequencing. On Wednesday, it was revealed that the Gulf-returnee was positive for Omicron. He was immediately shifted to Hyderabad for quarantine. The results of the other two, who were home quarantined, are still awaited.On getting to know this, the villagers held an emergency meeting on Thursday morning and resolved that the entire village should observe lockdown. “It is very unfortunate, but we have no other alternative. Except for a couple of hours in the morning hours for essential services, the entire village will be shut down for 10 days. We have asked the people not to come out of their houses except for emergency needs,” Gudem village upa-sarpanch S Srinivasa Rao told HT.He said the authorities had collected 64 samples of the primary contacts of the Gulf-returnee and sent them for tests. “All of them were sent to home quarantine. We have also informed our decision to higher officials,” Rao said.According to him, the man had also attended a wedding function at the adjacent Narayanapur village of Yellareddypet mandal on Sunday. “The authorities have also collected samples of 53 people who came in contact with him at the event. They have also been sent for testing,” he added.
23-12-2021||India||After hurting special identify of J&K people, govt now eyeing their land: Mehbooba Mufti||Peoples’ Democratic Party (PDP) president Mehbooba Mufti on Thursday said the Jammu and Kashmir administration is after the land and property of the people of the union territory, having already hurt their identity and dignity.Addressing villagers in RS Pura in Jammu, Mufti said the “theatrics of peace” being played out by the BJP-led Centre was proving to be counterproductive in the Valley.“Arm-twisting measures with heavy military presence on the ground, denying fundamental rights to people and enforcing a political ideology are what is being done in the name of ensuring peace in Jammu and Kashmir,” the former chief minister was quoted as saying by news agency PTI.She said one cannot shut the mouth of an ailing patient “in pain” and declare the person “stable", adding that coercive methods can win the BJP time but will not guarantee harmony in the Valley.“Reconciliation and dialogue are the only way to establish lasting peace,” Mufti said.Speaking about the Gharana Wetland that has attained global recognition for being home to several types of migratory birds, the PDP leader said that while the Centre's developmental plans regarding it can boost tourist influx in the Valley, the J&K administration cannot “turn a blind eye” to the issue of local residents losing a “huge portion of [their] land” for the same.Mufti said the Valley administration must allocate alternative lands to the protesting villagers and offer jobs.According to reports, the Centre is planning to expedite the land acquisition process for the Gharana Wetland Conservation Reserve on the outskirts of the Valley that would not only aid in conserving the wetland but also promote eco-tourism and become known as a popular tourist destination.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/after-hurting-special-identify-of-j-k-people-govt-now-eyeing-their-land-mufti-101640275719250.html
23-12-2021||India||Ludhiana court blast: Sidhu asks why violence ahead of polls, cites Bengal||Calling the Ludhiana court blast incident a “cowardly act”, Punjab Congress president Navjot Singh Sidhu on Thursday said the politics of “hope and unity” must replace that of “fear and division”. The cricketer-turned politician made the remarks after meeting the persons injured in the explosion in Ludhiana that killed one man.“Innocent people losing lives to vote-bank politics and polarisation… Divisive force will be defeated by the indomitable spirit of Punjabiyat given to us by Great Gurus,” he later wrote on Twitter.
23-12-2021||India||Meghalaya Speaker recognises merger of 12 Congress MLAs with Trinamool||Meghalaya assembly Speaker Metbah Lyngdoh on Thursday recognised the merger of the 12 Congress MLAs with Trinamool Congress (TMC) — a month after the legislators switched sides in a sudden move. “I am satisfied that the merger of the 12 members of the Indian National Congress is valid as provided under paragraph 4 of the 10th Schedule to the Constitution of India and doesn’t attract disqualification,” Lyngdoh mentioned in a bulletin. “I do not find any merit in the submissions made in the petitions filed by Dr. M Ampareen Lyngdoh, MLA, (Congress legislature party leader) and therefore the same is dismissed,” the bulletin added. The 12 legislators-- former Chief Minister Dr. Mukul Sangma, Marthon Sangma, Jimmy Sangma, Lazarus Sangma, Miani Shira, H M Shangpliang, George Lyngdoh, Winnerson Sangma, Dikkanchi Shira, Zenith Sangma, Charles Pyngrope and Shitlang Pale—had handed over the letter of merger to the Speaker on November 24. Congress had, however, challenged the merger and sought disqualification of the MLAs. M. Ampareen Lyngdoh had, on November 29, filed 10 petitions with the Speaker seeking disqualification of the 12 defected legislators. She filed two more similar petitions earlier this month. The Speaker, thereafter, issued notices to the MLAs asking them to submit their response to the plea. However, upon receiving the response from the MLAs, he approved their merger with TMC. “The Speaker has decided and I respect his order. I will not pursue this petition because our campaign will take priority in 2022. The party, however, may have a different view on the matter,” Ampareen Lyngdoh stated in response to the Speaker’s decision. “As a CLP we took the available space to move a petition against the desertion, this being an opportunity to object to the manner in which the exodus disclosed, hence no regret on that,” she added. 
23-12-2021||India||Ludhiana court blast: FIR filed, Amit Shah briefed; Punjab on high alert||A first information report (FIR) was registered on Thursday against an unknown person in connection with a blast that took place at the Ludhiana court complex earlier in the day, killing at least one person and injuring five others. The government has declared a high alert in the state.According to reports, Union home minister Amit Shah was briefed by secretary Ajay Kumar Bhalla about the blast after speaking to officials from Punjab. An ANI article said the ministry of home affairs has also sought a report from Punjab on the explosion.The explosion occurred on the second floor of the building that houses eight courtrooms.A team of National Security Guard has been called in connection with the blast, police said. Police suspect that the man killed in the blast was trying to set off the explosive device, or may even have been a suicide bomber.Meanwhile, Punjab chief minister Charanjit Singh Channi said those trying to "disturb peace and harmony of state" will not be spared. He had earlier said some "anti-national" elements were committing such acts ahead of the Assembly election that the state is set to see early next year. Channi also announced free treatment for those undergoing treatment for injuries suffered in the blast.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/ludhiana-court-blast-fir-filed-amit-shah-briefed-punjab-on-high-alert-101640273866378.html
23-12-2021||India||News updates from HT: Omicron may cause 3 billion infections globally in next 2 months and all the latest news||Here are today’s top news, analysis, and opinion. Know all about the latest news and other news updates from Hindustan Times.Omicron may cause around 3 billion infections in next 2 months: ReportThe Omicron variant of the coronavirus disease may cause around three billion infections across the world in the next two months, a research report has predicted. Read moreKerala twin murders: Prime accused still at large says top copAmid investigations into Kerala’s twin political murders, the Additional Director General of Police, Vijay Sakhre, on Thursday said the main accused in the murder of the BJP leader in Alappuzha have slipped out of the state and special teams have been dispatched to neighbouring states to nab them. Read moreLudhiana court blast: CM Channi announces free treatment for injured personsPunjab chief minister Charanjit Singh Channi on Thursday announced free treatment for all those who were injured in an explosion at the Ludhiana district court complex earlier in the day killing at least one person. Read moreSome see politics of Uttar Pradesh through prism of caste, religion: PM Modi in VaranasiPrime Minister Narendra Modi on Thursday attacked the Opposition parties and said the motto “sabka saath, sabka vikas” had never been part of the dictionary of the people who saw the politics of Uttar Pradesh only through the prism of caste, creed and religion. Read more‘It's like life in jail’: Shakib Al Hasan opens up on bio-bubble stress, says ‘might stop playing T20Is after World Cup'Former Bangladesh captain Shakib Al Hasan in an interview to a Dhaka-based TV channel opened up about bio-bubble stress and even discussed retirement talks. Read moreAtrangi Re movie review: Sara Ali Khan, Dhanush are soul of a unique love story, Akshay Kumar adds the Midas touchAtrangi Re lives up to its title. Directed by Aanand L Rai, it's refreshingly different, unique love story that so beautifully breaks through the clutter. It's not remotely close to how we have visualised or seen romances on screen over the years. Read moreAhmedabad juice bar lets customers cycle to blend fruits into juices. Watch howA juice bar in Ahmedabad, Gujarat, prides itself on being a “juice bar with zero wastage and complete focus on sustainability.” It is called Greenobar and it lets customers make their own juices but in a slightly different way than what you might've expected. Read moreWatch| ‘Eyewash...’: Why Priyanka Gandhi slammed Ayodhya 'land scam' probe ordered by Yogi Govt||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/news-updates-from-ht-omicron-may-cause-3-billion-infections-in-next-2-months-101640271658873.html
23-12-2021||India||Ludhiana court blast: CM Channi announces free treatment for injured persons||Punjab chief minister Charanjit Singh Channi on Thursday announced free treatment for all those who were injured in an explosion at the Ludhiana district court complex earlier in the day killing at least one person. The chief minister said this after paying a visit to the blast site and the hospitals where the injured individuals are undergoing treatment.“I reiterate that we would not let any person disturb the hard-earned peace and communal harmony of the state,” he later wrote on Twitter. Channi further said the injured persons are admitted across three hospitals in Ludhiana.
23-12-2021||India||Maharashtra records 23 new cases of Omicron variant; CM Uddhav to hold meet tonight||Maharashtra on Thursday detected 23 new cases of the Omicron variant of Covid-19 taking the statewide count to 88. Among the new cases, 13 patients were found in Pune, five in Mumbai, two in Osmanabad and one each in Thane, Nagpur and Mira-Bhayander.Chief minister Uddhav Thackeray will hold a meeting at 10pm tonight in view of the rising numbers. The chief minister's secretariat said a virtual meeting will be held with Covid-19 Task Force at 10pm.The health ministry said 42 of the 88 patients have, so far, been discharged after testing negative for the virus.The health department said the state's cumulative Covid-19 count touched 66,53,345 with 1,179 new infections being reported in the last 24 hours.With 17 more patients passing away due to related complications, the fatality tally reached 1,41,392.Also, 615 people recovered during the day taking the total recovery count to 65,00,375.In capital Mumbai, 577 people tested positive for coronavirus, while one person died from the viral disease. So far, the country's financial capital has recorded 7,68,610 cases of the virus. (With inputs from bureau)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/maharashtra-records-23-new-cases-of-omicron-variant-tally-touches-88-101640270281015.html
23-12-2021||India||Kerala twin murders: Prime accused still at large says top cop||Amid investigations into Kerala’s twin political murders, the Additional Director General of Police, Vijay Sakhre, on Thursday said the main accused in the murder of the BJP leader in Alappuzha have slipped out of the state and special teams have been dispatched to neighbouring states to nab them. The top cop said five arrested workers of the Social Democratic Party of India, the political wing of the Popular Front of India (PFI), were held on charges of conspiracy and tampering with evidence and people who participated in the murder directly were still at large. Two state-level functionaries of the BJP and SDPI, Renjith Sreenivas and K S Shan, were murdered in Alappuzha on Saturday and Sunday within a span of 12 hours shocking the state. Police later admitted that both were retaliatory killings. “We have definite information that some of the accused who directly participated in the murder slipped out of the state. Both murders were well- planned and executed. Since the probe is on we can’t divulge any further information,” he said. He said the allegation of the PFI that some of those detained were forced to chant “Jai Sri Ram.” was baseless. “It is a baseless charge. If the allegation is found right I am ready to quit,” he said. The officer is supervising the special investigation team probing both the killings. He said the SIT identified all those who directly participated in both murders. In the SDPI leader’s murder police arrested three workers of the RSS so far, he said. The PFI has alleged that the ongoing investigation was biased and intended to satisfy the Sangh Parivar. “Our workers have been hounded and their homes searched in the night without women officers being present. A section of the police is totally biased and out to woo the Sangh Parivar,” it said in a statement in Kozhikode (north Kerala). The BJP has sought a probe by the central agencies. “We are not satisfied with the ongoing probe. Like in other political killings, the police are literally groping in the dark even after four days of the gruesome murder,” said state BJP president K Surendran. The police have started a crackdown on those who spread hate on social media after the twin murders. At least 30 people were booked and two arrests were made, said a senior police officer warning that strict action will be taken against those who try to disrupt communal harmony. Police have also approached the admin of these social media sites to block those who try to vitiate the communal atmosphere of the state. The ruling Communist Party of India (Marxist) said communal elements were trying to vitiate peace and carry out a vicious campaign for communal polarization. “Both RSS and SDPI are trying to foment trouble in the state to create an atmosphere of polarization. People will realize their follies and the government will take strict action against them,” said party state secretary Kodiyeri Balakrishnan adding that it was wrong to dub all Muslims as PFI members and such a move will only help the fundamentalist outfit. He also denied the RSS-BJP allegation that many PFI activists had sneaked into the ruling CPI(M).||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/kerala-twin-murders-prime-accused-still-at-large-says-top-cop-101640270114300.html
23-12-2021||India||HT This Day: Dec 24, 1998 - JP awarded Bharat Ratna posthumously||Veteran Freedom fighter and socialist leader Loknayak Jayaprakash Narayan has been posthumously awarded the Bharat Ratna, the country’s highest civilian honour. The BJP-led Governments decision to confer the award on the Sarvodaya leader was communicated by Prime Minister Atal Bihari Vajpayee to President K.R. Narayanan last evening. The surprise announcement came through a two-line Press communique issued by Rashtrapati Bhavan today (December 23). He is the 35th recipient of this award. A leading light of the Quit India Movement of 1942 against the British rule, ‘JP’ came to be known better for his nationwide movement against corruption in public life and excesses during Emergency. When Mrs. Indira Gandhi decided to revoke the Emergency and hold general elections in 1977, JP was instrumental in bringing opposition parties together. The Janata Party, under whose banner they fought the elections inflicted a crushing defeat on the Congress. He may have played a pioneering role in providing the country its first non-Congress Government, but JP declined to accept any public post. In the 1950s, many had regarded him a possible successor to Jawaharlal Nehru, but he counted himself out of any position of power. He had voluntarily retired from active politics towards the end of the sixties and devoted himself to Bhoodan Movement, launched by Acharya Vinoba Bhave.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/ht-this-day-dec-24-1998-jp-awarded-bharat-ratna-posthumously-101640268732864.html
23-12-2021||India||Satark & savdhaan: PM Modi calls for caution at review meet amid Omicron alarm||Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Thursday chaired a meeting to review the pandemic situation in the country in the wake of the spread of the highly transmissible Omicron variant of the coronavirus disease.A government release on the meeting said the PM asked senior officials to maintain a high level of vigil and alertness. He directed the Centre to work in close coordination with states and support their efforts of public health measures towards containment and management under the ‘Whole of Government’ approach. The strategy of the Centre for proactive, focussed, collaborative and cooperative fight against the pandemic should guide “all our future actions”, the PM said.“In view of the new variant, we should be ‘satark’ (alert) and ‘saavdhan’ (take precaution),” the PM added. The fight against the pandemic is not over, he said, stressing the need for continued adherence to Covid-appropriate behaviour.#WATCH | Prime Minister Narendra Modi chairs #COVID19 review meeting pic.twitter.com/4lUUVuB7UKFurther, Modi directed the officials to ensure that health systems in the states, beginning from the district level, are strengthened to meet any challenge posed by the Omicron variant. “It is important for states to ensure that the oxygen supply equipment are installed and fully functional,” he said. He directed the officials to work with the state authorities on a regular basis and review the status of preparedness of various components of health infrastructure, including training and capacity building of human resources, timely availability of ambulances, readiness of states to operationalise Covid facilities for institutional quarantining, and effective and supervised monitoring of those in home isolation. He also directed officials for effective use of tech tools for tele-medicine and tele-consultation.The country saw a significant rise in the daily Covid-19 tally with 7,495 new cases being reported in the last 24 hours. The cumulative count of Omicron cases also neared 300 with a number of infections from the new strain being detected from across states.Earlier in the day, the Centre held another review meeting with states wherein the latter, especially those awaiting Assembly election early next year, was asked to expedite vaccination coverage in the wake of Omicron's spread. The Centre also asked the states to consider local curbs and restrictions ahead of the upcoming festive week.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/pm-modi-chairs-covid-review-meeting-as-omicron-spreads-alarm-101640267985128.html
23-12-2021||India||India tests Pralay missile second time in 2 days||India on Thursday successfully tested the locally developed surface-to-surface missile Pralay, the second test of the conventional missile in two days, the defence ministry announced. The Defence Research and Development Organisation (DRDO) tested the missile from the Dr APJ Abdul Kalam Island off the Odisha coast.It has a range of 150 to 500 kilometre, depending on payload, and can be launched from a mobile launcher.“In Thursday’s launch, the missile was tested for heavier payload and different range to prove the precision and lethality of the weapon,” the ministry said in a statement. The launch was monitored by range sensors and instruments, including telemetry, radar and electro-optic tracking systems deployed along India’s eastern coast and ships positioned near the impact point.The flight test met all the mission objectives, the ministry said.The twin flight tests came days after India tested an advanced variant of the Agni class of missiles from the Dr APJ Abdul Kalam Island test facility on December 18.The new generation nuclear-capable ballistic missile, named Agni P, can strike targets at a maximum range of 2,000 km and will further strengthen India’s credible deterrence capabilities, as previously reported.It is a canisterised missile with a range between 1,000 and 2,000 km.The other variants of the Agni missiles developed by DRDO include the 700-km Pakistan-specific Agni-I, the 2,000-km range Agni-II, the 3,000-km range Agni-III, 4,000-km range Agni-IV and the 5,000-km range Agni-V missile.The Agni P test came a week after India successfully tested a new locally-developed anti-tank missile and concluded a series of tests of extended range rockets also developed indigenously, weapons that will inducted into the armed forces shortly.The weapons successfully tested on December 11 were the helicopter launched stand-off anti-tank (SANT) missile and Pinaka extended range (ER) rocket systems.SANT has a range of 10 km.The new Pinaka rocket system has longer range with reduced length compared to the earlier variant. While Pinaka Mk-1 rockets have a range of 36 km, the ER variant can hit targets more than 48 km away and has been developed as per the requirements of the Indian Army.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/india-tests-pralay-missile-second-time-in-2-days-101640266873136.html
23-12-2021||India||The idea and the criticism of raising the marriageable age of women||New Delhi: The Centre on Tuesday tabled a bill, which seeks to raise the age of legal marriage for women from 18 to 21 across all faiths, in the Lok Sabha amid massive protests by the Opposition, and also sent it to a parliamentary standing committee for further discussion.
23-12-2021||India||First sacrilege, now blast: Kejriwal slams ‘pre-poll conspiracies’ in Punjab||Delhi chief minister Arvind Kejriwal on Thursday condoled the loss of life in an explosion that occurred on the premises of the Ludhiana district court earlier in the. In a video message, Kejriwal said that some people are disturbing the atmosphere of Punjab before the Assembly elections.“I wish for the speedy recovery of the injured. A few days back, a sacrilege bid took place at the Golden Temple. And today, this explosion occurred in Ludhiana. Such a conspiracy happens every time before elections. Last time, an explosion took place in Maur,” Kejriwal added.Also Read| Ludhiana court blast: Man killed might have been carrying the bomb, suspect copsThe convener of the Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) that is trying to regain lost ground in the poll-bound state said some people are unable to accept the unity of three crore people of Punjab.A man died while five others were injured in the explosion that happened inside the washroom on the second floor of the Ludhiana district court around 12.22pm.Ludhiana Police commissioner Gurpreet Bhullar said the deceased was either carrying the bomb or was very close to it. “A team of the National Security Guard (NSG) was called to the explosion site,” Bhullar added.Later in the day, Punjab chief minister Charanjit Singh Channi met the injured persons who are undergoing treatment at a hospital in stable condition.Also Read| Day after Golden Temple sacrilege attempt, Punjab CM blames ‘bad elements’"An investigation is underway. Some people want to create disturbance in Punjab. The government is on alert. A person died and five got injured in the incident," Channi was quoted as saying by news agency ANI.The chief minister said earlier that some anti-national elements were doing such acts as assembly elections are nearing in Punjab.Meanwhile, the Union home ministry has sought a detailed report from the Punjab government regarding the explosion. The state government has also been ordered to share information with the Centre about the findings of the initial investigation.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/first-sacrilege-now-blast-kejriwal-slams-pre-poll-conspiracies-in-punjab-101640261487866.html
23-12-2021||India||PIL in Gauhati High Court seeks independent probe into Assam fake encounters||An advocate has filed a public interest litigation in the Gauhati High Court seeking an independent investigation into the incidents of alleged fake encounters by the Assam Police. Arif Jwadder, a resident of Assam who is practicing law in New Delhi, mentions that 80 such incidents have happened in the state since May 2021 (when a new BJP-led government took charge) and resulted in 28 deaths and left 48 injured. In July this year, Jwadder had filed a complaint against such incidents with the National Human Rights Commission (NHRC). The commission had sought a report from the Assam Police in September. In November, NHRC transferred the case to the Assam human rights commission. The complaint is still pending. Besides the state government, Assam Police, the department of law and justice, NHRC and the Assam human rights commission have been named as respondents in the petition. The HC had admitted the petition but is yet to list any date of hearing. In his petition, Jwadder stated that the people killed or injured in fake encounters by police were not criminals and the modus operandi of all such incidents as per police version has been the same. “It is stated that the alleged accused tried to snatch the service revolvers of police personnel and in self-defence, the police had to retaliate and kill or injure the alleged accused…It can’t be the case that all the alleged accused could snatch a service revolver from a trained police officer whose pistols are normally tied to a rope with the waist belt of the officer,” the petition, which HT has seen, stated. It added that while the police version mentioned about the alleged accused trying to snatch weapons from the police, there was no mention of the accused aiming or firing at police personnel. Also, all the encounters took place at night and the victims were unarmed and handcuffed at that time. The petition requested the HC to seek records of all encounters from the Assam government and police and order an independent investigation against police personnel involved in the incidents by an independent agency like the Central Bureau of Investigation under direct supervision of the court. It also sought a judicial inquiry by a sitting judge of the Gauhati HC into the encounters, direction to the Assam government to set up human rights courts in each district and order monetary compensation to families of encounter victims after due verification. In July this year, Assam Chief Minister Himanta Biswa Sarma had asked police personnel to shoot at legs of alleged criminals if they tried to escape from police custody. The opposition Congress has been targeting the state government over the encounters terming most of them as fake. 
23-12-2021||India||Explainer: Jharkhand's anti-mob lynching bill||RANCHI: The Jharkhand assembly on December 21 passed the ‘Prevention of Mob Violence and Mob Lynching Bill, 2021’ that provides for varying jail terms ranging from three years to life imprisonment and a monetary fine up to ₹25 lakh against those involved in mob lynching.
23-12-2021||India||Karnataka assembly passes contentious anti-conversion bill, Cong on backfoot during debate||The Karnataka Assembly on Thursday passed the contentious anti-conversion bill, titled ‘Protection of Right to Freedom of Religion Bill, 2021’, amid uproar from opposition b.Minister Ashwathnarayan said this was a much-awaited bill that will create harmony in society. “It will facilitate transparency and accountability. It is a forward-looking bill that will address many challenges being currently faced,” the minister was quoted as saying by news agency ANI on the legislation's passage in the assembly. During discussion on the bill, the Opposition Congress seemed to be on a back foot with the Basavaraj Bommai-led government claiming the legislation had been initiated by the grand old party with Siddaramaiah in the chief minister’s chair. The ruling camp also placed documents to support its claim before the House.While Siddaramaiah, the leader of Opposition in the Assembly, initially refuted the charge, he later went through the records in the speaker's office, following which he accepted that as the CM he had only asked a draft bill in this regard to be placed before the cabinet and that no decision was taken on the same.Also read | Attacks on Christian groups expose fault lines in KarnatakaStating that the Congress vehemently opposed the bill in its present form that it said was "anti people", "inhuman", "anti constitutional", "anti poor" and "draconian", the senior Congress leader said the bill should not be passed for any reason and should be withdrawn by the government.Also read | Explainer: Karnataka anti-conversion law: The legality of other such lawsEarlier in the day, moving the bill for consideration, home minister Araga Jnanendra said the law was not against any religion and eight states have passed and are implementing such a law and Karnataka would become the ninth one. Noting that religious conversion has become a menace and quoting example of Hosadurga MLA Goolihatti Shekhar's recent statement that his mother has been converted to Christianity, the minister said the issue of conversion has created friction in the society, especially in rural areas, and there has been incidents of suicide in Udupi and Mangaluru recently in cases related to conversion.The bill provides for protection of right to freedom of religion and prohibition of unlawful conversion from one religion to another by misrepresentation, force, undue influence, coercion, allurement or by any fraudulent means.(With inputs from agencies)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/karnataka-assembly-passes-contentious-anti-conversion-bill-101640261674849.html
23-12-2021||India||Killers of BJP functionary identified, chasing them: Police||All the 12 accused, suspected to have been directly involved in the recent murder of BJP functionary Ranjith Sreenivas here, have been identified but they have managed to escape from Kerala, police said on Thursday while the arrest of another person was recorded in the murder of SDPI's K S Shan for allegedly providing logistic support to the killers. Special police teams were deployed to track down the absconding culprits and the probe has been extended outside the state, ADGP (Law and Order) Vijay Sakhare told reporters here. The senior IPS officer, who heads the Special Investigation Team probing the back to back murder cases of Sreenivas and Shan, however, said they have got relevant information regarding the conspiracy in both cases but could not divulge the details as it would adversely impact the investigation. "All the 12 accused, directly involved in the murder of Sreenivas, have been identified. But, none of them are in the state now. We are chasing them. They will land in police custody soon," he said. It is sure that the killers had received external support to go into hiding and the police were examining the details, he said. Asked about the SDPI's allegations against frequent police searches in the houses of party activists and sympathisers, he said raids would continue in the suspected hideouts of the accused as it was important to nab the culprits. "We have to maintain that the law and order situation is not broken down. For that, raids are important," he said. An ambulance, suspected to have been used by the culprits involved in the Shan murder case, was seized by the police and its scientific and forensic examination would be carried out soon. "It is a cat and mouse game now. Every accused is in hiding but we will nab them at any cost," the senior officer added. Shan, the state secretary of SDPI, was killed by a gang on Saturday night while he was on his way home, while the BJP OBC Morcha state secretary Sreenivas was hacked to death in front of his family by some assailants in his house on Sunday morning. Five SDPI sympathisers have been arrested in connection with the murder of Sreenivas so far while the arrest of three persons have been recorded in Shan's killing, according to police. Meanwhile, police have registered as many as 30 cases across the state in the last five days against some people for spreading provocative messages through social media platforms in a manner that incites communal hatred. One person was arrested in a case registered by the West Police in Kollam district in this regard, an official statement said here. The highest number of cases was registered in the Ernakulam rural sector-13, while the other cases were registered in Thiruvananthapuram, Alappuzha, Kozhikode, Palakkad, Kottayam, Kozhikode, Thrissur and Kasaragod districts, it said. State DGP Anil Kant said it was a crime to propagate messages through social media platforms in a way that promotes social hatred and communal disharmony. Stating that the state police have launched a special monitoring system to keep an eye on such messages, he also said district police chiefs have been directed to complete investigation and take action against such culprits including arrest.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/killers-of-bjp-functionary-identified-chasing-them-police-101640260879585.html
23-12-2021||India||Videos of 3-day Dharma Sansad in Haridwar spark off controversy||Social media platform Twitter erupted on Thursday after several verified users shared and condemned videos of the three-day religious gathering in Haridwar in which the speakers allegedly called for open violence against Muslims. The Dharma Sansad was organised between December 17 and 19. As the videos went viral inviting massive condemnation, RTI activist and Trinamool leader Saket Gokhale tweeted that he has filed a complaint with the SHO of Jawalapur police station against the religious congregation."Failing the registration of an FIR against the organisers and speakers in 24 hours, a plaint shall be made to the judicial magistrate," Gokhale tweeted. I've filed a complaint with SHO, Jwalapur PS in Haridwar against the #HaridwarHateAssembly conducted from 17th-20th December at Ved Niketan Dham.Failing the registration of an FIR against the organizers & speakers in 24 hrs, a plaint shall be made to the Judicial Magistrate. https://t.co/hnUdNiurve pic.twitter.com/Xgv6FCu3ZMThe religious meeting was organised by Yati Narasimhanand. Swami Prabodhanand Giri, president of the Hindu Raksha Sena, Swami Anandswaroop, Sadhvi Annapurna have spoken during the conclave. BJP leader Ashwini Upadhyay attended the last day of the conclave but reportedly distanced himself from the 'hate speech'. He said he was there for only 30 minutes and was not aware of what was said during the conclave.Videos from the event have flooded YouTube as well and some of the speeches were live-streamed on YouTube."Munawar Faruqui has been relentlessly punished for alleged jokes which he didn't even crack, but there is no action against the 'Dharm Sansad' members who openly called for genocide against Muslims in Haridwar! Is India still a democracy!" Congress national spokesperson Dr Shama Mohamed tweeted.Congress social media coordinator Gaurav Pandhi tweeted, "In Haridwar, a group of Hindutvawadis gathered giving a call for armed violence against Muslims, former PM Dr Manmohan Singh and armed revolt against India. They stresse on creating terrorists."The official Twitter handle of CPM wrote, "Weeks ago PM talked about democracy- constitution while the rightwing groups continue to spread hatred and are openly giving call for genocide. Why did BJP govt in the state allow such gathering? All those involved in it should be immediately booked."Chhattisgarh minister TS Singhdeo tweeted, "Our traditional value is 'Vasudhaiv Kutumbhkam - World is a Family'. Our Constitutional value is Secularism - Respect for all religions. Our primary Fundamental Right is Right to equality. Such bigoted thoughts & assemblies are against the foundation of India. This is criminal!"||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/videos-of-3-day-dharma-sansad-in-hardiwar-sparks-off-controversy-101640260481668.html
23-12-2021||India||Poush Mela to be held outside Visva Bharati, VC blames TMC government||The annual ‘Poush Mela’, a heritage cultural event attracting lakhs of travellers to West Bengal’s Santiniketan, will be held outside the premises of the Visva Bharati University campus.  The university’s vice chancellor, Bidyut Chakrabarty, said on Thursday that this year the fair could not be held inside the campus as there was no response from the state government.  “We took the initiative to organize the fair since October this year. We wrote to the state health secretary seeking advice on how to hold the fair. We sent three reminders. We didn’t get any response till date,” Chakrabarty told the media. The district administration, however, said that the fair is being held at an alternate place outside the Visva Bharati premises, as the university authorities didn't take any initiative. In 2020, the varsity authorities had cancelled the fair because of the Covid-19 pandemic. A local organisation later held the fair outside the campus in a small manner last year. “This year the same social organisation is organising the fair at an alternate place outside the university campus, around 1.5 km away. The district administration is helping the organisation to organise the fair. There was no initiative from the university authorities,” said Bidhan Ray, district magistrate of Birbhum.  Earlier in 2016 the university had been hauled up by the National Green Tribunal for flouting pollution norms in earlier versions of the festival. Nobel laureate Rabindranath Tagore’s father Maharshi Debendranath Tagore had first organised the fair in 1894 and Visva-Bharati, the university founded by the bard, started organising it from 1951. The over-a-century-old handicraft, handloom, art and music festival is usually held in December-end. It was inaugurated on Thursday and will continue till December 26.  “This is very unfortunate. I don’t know whose fault it was. The state, Centre and the VB authorities should have been more proactive about organising the fair inside the campus” said Anupam Hazra, BJP’s former MP and party’s national general secretary.  The TMC, however, lashed out saying that no Bengali would believe it if anyone says that the Mamata  Banerjee-administration didn’t give permission to VB. “Even a fool would not believe this,” said Santanu Sen, TMC MP.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/poush-mela-to-be-held-outside-visva-bharati-vc-blames-tmc-government-101640258640002.html
23-12-2021||India||President Kovind unveils P N Panicker's statue in Thiruvananthapuram||President Ram Nath Kovind on Thursday unveiled a statue of late P.N. Panicker at Poojappura in Thiruvananthapuram and said he wanted to remove the evil of illiteracy.The President said Panicker spread an important message - "Vayichu Valaruka" which means "Read and Grow".He said that Panicker made libraries and literacy a movement of the people."It is a unique feature of Kerala that in every village, even in the remotest villages, there is a library and people feel an emotional connect with the library in their village or town just as they feel a special connection with the temple or church or mosque or school in their village or town," Kovind said, according to a release by the President's Secretariat.He noted that libraries created by the movement of Panicker later became a nerve centre of all social and cultural activities of which the literacy movement of Kerala is an impressive example."The credit for libraries having a central place in the culture of Kerala goes to Shri P.N. Panicker who connected common people to libraries. The Granthashala Sangam started by Shri Panicker with about 50 small libraries in 1945 grew into a large network of thousands of libraries."The President said that Kerala displays India at its cultural and harmonious best."Recently, when the Covid-pandemic affected the entire world, nurses and doctors from Kerala were among the most visible Covid-warriors in India, the middle-east and so many other regions on the globe. The people of Kerala enhance the pride of India," he said.Pointing to the fact that Kerala became the first State to have a hundred per cent literacy, the President said that the 'Sakshara Keralam' movement became popular and effective due to the foundations laid down by Panicker.The President said that observing the birthday of Panicker on 19th June as 'Reading Day' is the most appropriate way of paying tribute to the great nation builder.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/president-kovind-unveils-p-n-panicker-s-statue-in-thiruvananthapuram-101640259287701.html
23-12-2021||India||Kerala sees 5 new Omicron cases, tally touches 29; patients undergo treatment at hospital||Kerala on Thursday reported five new cases of Omicron variant of Covid-19, taking the state's tally to 29. Health minister Veena George said four of the new patients arrived at the Cochin International Airport in Ernakulam, while the fifth patient reached Kozhikode airport from Bengaluru.“All of them have been admitted to a hospital,” George was quoted as saying by news agency ANI.
23-12-2021||India||Elgar case: 8 activists denied default bail tell HC they will seek order review||Eight activists accused in the Elgar Parishad-Maoist links case, who were denied default bail by the Bombay High Court earlier this month, told the HC on Thursday that they will file review petitions against the order which was based on a "factual error". The accused activists and academicians -- Sudhir Dawale, Dr P Varavara Rao, Rona Wilson, advocate Surendra Gadling, Professor Shoma Sen, Mahesh Raut, Vernon Gonsalves and Arun Ferreira, -- had earlier this week filed an application for 'speaking to minutes', which is used for getting minor corrections made to an order of a court. On Thursday, a bench of Justices S S Shinde and N J Jamadar said the court could not pass any orders accepting or denying the claims made by the parties, or even listen to the arguments on merits since the accused had preferred to move the speaking to minutes application. Senior advocate Sudeep Pasbola, who appeared for one of the accused activists in the case, then told the bench that the accused will withdraw the speaking to minutes application and file fresh pleas seeking a review of the HC order. Pasbola said the accused will file the fresh pleas in January 2022, once the HC reopens after the Christmas vacation.The bench then said it was not granting any liberty or specific permission to the accused to file the review petition. However, if the procedure established under the law provided for a review petition, they were free to file it, the HC said. On December 1 this year, the bench of Justices Shinde and Jamadar granted default bail to Sudha Bharadwaj, also an accused in the Elgar Parishad case, on the ground that the Pune sessions court, which had granted an extension of time to the Pune police for filing of charge sheet after the mandatory 90-day period was over, did not have the jurisdiction to do so. At that time, the bench rejected the same relief for the eight other co-accused in the case. The HC then said these eight persons had not exercised their right to seek default bail in time. It had observed that while Bharadwaj filed a plea before the Pune court seeking default bail as soon as the 90-day period for filing of the charge sheet in the case got over, these eight accused had delayed filing of their applications. On Tuesday, however, the eight accused persons informed the bench through their counsel R Sathyanarayanan that its judgment denying them default bail was based on a "factual error". They said Dhawale, Wilson, Gadling, Sen and Raut had filed default bail pleas before the Pune sessions court on September 26, 2018, after the 90-day period of their arrest got over and the charge sheet remained to be filed. The activists said they were arrested on July 6 2018, and the first charge sheet against them was filed only on November 15, 2018. They filed their default bail pleas in time, but the same are still pending hearing before the sessions court, they said. Gonsalves, Rao and Ferriera told the high court that they had applied for default bail on November 30, 2018, just four days after Bharadwaj filed her application before the Pune court. They told the HC that the Pune sessions court had rejected their default bail applications along with Bharadwaj's default bail plea through a common order passed on November 6, 2019. It was this November 6, 2019 order that the high court bench of Justice Shinde had set aside on December 1 this year in Bharadwaj's case, they said. The Elgar Parishad case was earlier with the Pune police and it is now being handled by the National Investigation Agency (NIA). The case relates to alleged inflammatory speeches delivered at the 'Elgar Parishad' conclave, held at Shaniwarwada in Pune on December 31, 2017, which the police claimed triggered violence the next day near the Koregaon-Bhima war memorial located on the city's outskirts. The Pune police had claimed the conclave was backed by Maoists.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/elgar-case-8-activists-denied-default-bail-tell-hc-they-will-seek-order-review-101640257022566.html
23-12-2021||India||News updates from HT: TMC says no difference of opinion between party, I-PAC and all the latest news||Here are today’s top news, analysis, and opinion. Know all about the latest news and other news updates from Hindustan Times.No difference of opinion between party and Prashant Kishor's I-PAC, claims TrinamoolTrinamool MP Derek O'Brien on Wednesday said Trinamool is a political party and I-PAC is its political collaborator which was seen as an attempt to draw a line between party and Prashant Kishor. Read more here. Bells all set to toll again in Srinagar church that was closed for decadesAccording to a plaque at Saint Luke’s Church, it was built in 1896 and was dedicated to the then bishop of Lahore. It is located near Srinagar’s Chest Diseases Hospital. Read more here. TVS Motor launches limited-run Apache RTR 165 RP at ₹1.45 lakhTVS Apache RTR 165 RP sources power from a 164.9 cc single-cylinder 4 valve engine that churns out 19.2 PS at 10,000 rpm and 14.2 Nm torque at 8,750 rpm. Read more here. What The Matrix Resurrections is telling us: There is no hope for humanityLana Wachowski's The Matrix Resurrections combines the ideas of the preceding trilogy and concludes that humans are better off not facing what's real. Read more here. After 20 days of viral fever, Samantha Ruth Prabhu feels 'good to be back' to this...Due to physical weakness, Samantha had to stay away from workouts for a while. On Thursday, she shared a glimpse of how she is celebrating her return to the gym – through intense workouts. Read more here. 'Kohli and Shastri were controlling Indian cricket': Former India quick on why Dhoni was roped in as mentor for T20 WCA former India fast bowler has made a bold statement, claiming that MS Dhoni was roped in as mentor for T20 World Cup to ensure that Virat Kohli and Ravi Shastri did not have their way with the team. Read more here.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/news-updates-from-ht-tmc-says-no-difference-of-opinion-between-party-i-pac-and-all-the-latest-news-101640257049780.html
23-12-2021||India||Delhi court orders probe against former Maharashtra home minister Deshmukh||A Delhi court has ordered a probe against former Maharashtra home minister Anil Deshmukh in connection with the leak of confidential information related to the investigation into an extortion case involving him. The court said the Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI) had “forsaken the man pulling the string” while only booking the “hands”.On December 22, special judge Sanjeev Aggarwal took cognisance of the charge sheet filed against Deshmukh’s lawyer Anil Daga and CBI sub-inspector Abhishek Tiwari over alleged bribery related to the leak. It directed the CBI to “discreetly” conduct an investigation into Deshmukh’s role.The CBI arrested Daga and Tiwari on September 1 alleging a criminal conspiracy involving them and unknown persons to subvert the probe in the extortion case against Deshmukh.The Enforcement Directorate arrested Deshmukh in November in a money-laundering case linked to alleged extortion. The CBI earlier booked him in connection with the allegations of bribery that former Mumbai police commissioner Param Bir Singh levelled against the politician. The agency has alleged Tiwari shared sensitive and confidential documents with Daga in lieu of “undue advantage and illegal gratification” for sabotaging the probe in the extortion case. It said Daga was allegedly involved in the “manipulation” of the CBI’s preliminary inquiry against Deshmukh.On August 29, a report that was part of the preliminary inquiry the CBI conducted into Singh’s allegation of corruption against Deshmukh was leaked in the media. The report said the agency concluded that Deshmukh committed “no cognisable offence”. The CBI later said it found Deshmukh’s legal team tried to bribe some CBI officials and leaked the report as part of a “larger conspiracy to subvert the investigation”.Also Read: Chandiwal commission imposes ₹50k fine on Anil DeshmukhThe Delhi court pulled up the agency for not investigating Deshmukh’s role. “The CBI seems to have left the engine/horse pulling the cart, thereby only arraigning those traveling in cart, as without pull of engine or horse the ride of cart or conspiracy would not have been possible, despite mountain of apparent evidence, CBI seems to have forsaken the man pulling the strings or the controlling mind or master mind or head while only charge sheeting the hands,” said Aggarwal. He noted the two accused were closely associated with Deshmukh. Aggarwal said they may have been acting in tandem with him and “controlling the mind of the larger conspiracy, whereas those arrested may only be the hands”.The court said Deshmukh was the main beneficiary of the leak and the common objective of the conspiracy appears to be to get access investigation done in an illegal and clandestine manner and thereafter to use and circulate it. It referred to a series of conspiratorial acts to obtain the information. The court directed the agency to investigate Deshmukh’s role in a time-bound manner and file a status report within four weeks.The matter would be heard next on January 22.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/delhi-court-orders-probe-against-ex-maharashtra-home-minister-anil-deshmukh-101640256971988.html
23-12-2021||India||Activist accuses Assam govt of targeting him after cops question his nationality||An activist has accused the Assam government of targeting him because of his opposition to its policies after police raised questions over his nationality in their report for his passport renewal.Pranab Doley, 35, who contested this year’s assembly polls on Anchalik Gana Morcha’s ticket and lost to Asom Gana Parishad president Atul Bora, belongs to the Mising tribe. He said he applied for the renewal in April after the validity of his passport expired in November last year. “Since I was busy with the election process, I did not apply for renewal earlier. I have held a passport for 10 years and travelled to many countries. Therefore, I expected the renewal to be an easy process.”Doley said he was called to the local police station around a month after he submitted the passport renewal form. “...on December 20, I got a letter from the regional passport office in Guwahati, saying as per police report, my nationality is doubtful.” HT has seen the letter. Doley called the adverse report a violation of his fundamental rights. He questioned the police for sitting on his application before forwarding it to the passport office. “I have been at protests against human rights violations in the state and have taken a strong stand against the government’s evictions drives like the violent one at Gorukhuti. I feel the police report terming me a doubtful citizen is an impact of that,” said Doley. He added he feels the state government is afraid and wants to silence him.Golaghat police superintendent Sumeet Sharma said they would look into the matter after getting a “written grievance” from Doley. “We sent our verification report following due processes. Doley has several criminal cases lodged against him and those details were also mentioned in our report. If he makes a formal complaint, we will check our records and see what the issue is.”Doley has been arrested thrice over four years. He maintained the arrests related to his protests against the extrajudicial killing of a minor, compensation for crops damaged in floods, and for exposing a scam in the distribution of rice.In July, Assam chief minister Himanta Biswa Sarma asked police to clear passport verification applications within a week except in cases of applicants whose nationalities are doubtful.
23-12-2021||India||‘Money making’ traps Indian national into prison for six months in Singapore||An Indian student in Singapore was on Thursday sentenced to six months in prison after he pleaded guilty to a charge each of conspiring to carry on the business of an unlicensed payment service and of obstructing justice by deleting and exiting a WhatsApp group of his other Indian co-conspirators.The court heard that Jaspreet Singh, 26, had eight accomplices, all Indian nationals in their 20s, according to a Channel News Asia report.Another two unidentified accomplices are believed to be based in India, where they operate a money-laundering syndicate.Singh arrived in Singapore in September 2019 to pursue a diploma in hospitality and tourism management. He lived in a rented flat in Bukit Purmei Road with four of his co-accused.A year after he arrived in Singapore, one of Singh's flatmates introduced him to a money-making scheme, where he could earn money by providing his bank account for the receipt of overseas funds.Although he suspected that such an agreement was illegal, he was promised a commission and he agreed, the report said. Singh was added to a WhatsApp group with the other accomplices, which was used to coordinate money-laundering activities and ensure that fund transfers were received into various bank accounts.The funds would then be withdrawn and handed over to other individuals further down the laundering chain, court documents stated.Between September 2, 2020, and September 5, 2020, Singh provided a cross-border money transfer service, receiving a total of three inward transfers into his DBS Multiplier Account amounting to Singapore dollars 60,238 (USD 44,293)He also facilitated 14 outward transfers of Singapore dollars 60,200 (USD 44,265). These were in the form of transfers to his accomplices or unidentified individuals and cash withdrawals made either by himself or his accomplices to circumvent daily withdrawal limits.In exchange, Singh received a commission of about Singapore dollars 1,900 (USD 1,397).The process turned out to be a money-laundering chain by a cross-border syndicate targeting victims in Canada.Two Canadian men fell victim to scams related to money laundering. The first man filed a police report with his police authority in Ontario on September 14 last year.He said he was deceived into transferring a total of 66,390 Canadian dollars (USD 51,787) between September 3 and September 10 on the premise that he was returning excess refunds wrongly transferred to him for a terminated computer virus protection subscription service.A total of Singapore dollars 68,350 (USD 50,265) had been transferred into a DBS account and an OCBC account belonging to two of Singh's accomplices.The second Canadian man filed an online report with the Singapore Police Force on September 16 last year, saying he had been cheated into transferring 12,200 Canadian dollars (USD 9,516) on September 10 to a DBS bank account.The same premise was given to him - that he should return excess refunds wrongly transferred to him for a terminated computer virus protection subscription service.About Singapore dollars, 12,525 (USD 9,209) were transferred to the DBS account held by Singh's accomplice.The Commercial Affairs Department (CAD) began investigations and found that Singh's bank account was also implicated in the offences.On September 22 last year, CAD officers raided Singh's rented flat. While he was being raided, Singh deleted the WhatsApp chat group used to coordinate the group's money-laundering activities and exited it. The deleted information could not be recovered by CAD.In mitigation, Singh's lawyer said he was the youngest child in his family and had come to Singapore to study and in hopes of getting a higher-paying job.Although he is the youngest, he is the sole breadwinner of the family, as his father stopped working after injuring his leg and his mother is a housewife. He was acquainted with the wrong company and foolishly agreed to allow his account to be used for illegitimate activities, said the lawyer.Singh is the fourth of the group to be dealt with. The other three were also Indian nationals who had come to Singapore to pursue diplomas.Mukherjee Sukanya, 24, pleaded guilty in November and was sentenced to 18 months' imprisonment, while Tenzing Ugyen Lama Sherpa, 23, was given 40 months' jail term earlier this month.Tenzing was one of the coordinators of the Singapore branch of the criminal syndicate, facilitating almost Singapore dollars 205,000 (USD 150,737) in transfers with his bank account, of which Singapore dollars 37,795 (USD 277, 90) was traceable to criminal proceeds of the money-laundering syndicate.Tirth Singh, 22, was given six months' jail earlier this month, and the other cases are pending, the report said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/money-making-traps-indian-national-into-prison-for-six-months-in-singapore-101640254387933.html
23-12-2021||India||Bells all set to toll again in Srinagar church that was closed for decades||SRINAGAR: A church built over a century ago in Srinagar’s Dalgate area has reopened ahead of Christmas after renovation three decades after it was closed when insurgency erupted in the region in 1989. Prayers were held at Saint Luke’s Church on Wednesday.“We sang carols and the father gave a speech. We were overjoyed and very happy. We do not have words to express... It is such a joy that this church has opened again after over 30 years,” said Kennedy David Rajan, a worshipper, who runs an NGO. Rajan said the church’s reopening is a dream come true. “...we were eager that prayers resume here again which has happened after decades.”According to a plaque at the church, it was built in 1896 and was dedicated to the then bishop of Lahore. It is located near Srinagar’s Chest Diseases Hospital, which the Christian missionaries established.Mohammad Rafiq, 41, a local resident, said his great grandfather worked with the missionaries who established the hospital in the late 1860s and later the church. “They (missionaries) were doctors and established the church near the hospital...” He said he would visit the church as a child and local Christians prayed there during the peak of insurgency.Also Read: In pics: Srinagar’s oldest church, closed for decades, opens ahead of Christmas“I remember as children, we would go on Sundays and the father would come and open the church to pray. It used to happen as a low-key affair. Even a few families used to live in the church during the militancy.”Grace Paljor, an educationist, said the church’s opening is a sort of an expression of the government’s gratitude to their community’s contribution in the fields of health care and education. “It was very significant... the influence of the Christian community in the fields of medicine and education has been impactful.”The church was dilapidated until it was restored as part of the Srinagar Smart City Project. Zahoor Ahmad, an engineer associated with the project, said the church has been handed over to the tourism department.“One of the components of the Smart City Project is the up-gradation of existing shrines. ...this church is one of the prominent sites since 1896 and we gave it a priority. There was some delay in renovation due to Covid-19 but for the past few months, the tourism department has done good work. Our target was to restore it by Christmas...” He said a lot of work went into the renovation. “It was a challenging job to get...masons and experts. We restored its khatambandh (traditional Kashmiri wooden ceiling), brickwork, and flooring.”Suhaib Naqashbandi, an architect involved with the project, said the church was a listed heritage site and one of the few places with Gothic architecture in Kashmir. “It has significance in terms of religion and also...heritage. In Srinagar, we have Mughal architecture... Gothic architecture... can [be] found only at two to three places...[in] Kashmir.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/bells-all-set-to-toll-again-at-srinagar-church-that-was-closed-for-decades-101640255352028.html
23-12-2021||India||Centre asks poll-bound states to ramp up vaccination as Omicron raises alarm||The Centre on Thursday asked the administration of poll-bound states to exponentially ramp up vaccination against Covid-19, especially in districts that have seen low coverage so far, and protect the vulnerable population.The Centre’s latest advisory came on a day the country registered a significant rise in daily Covid-19 figures along with the spread of the highly contagious Omicron variant of the virus. A review meeting was held during the day. Prime Minister Narendra Modi is also set to chair a meeting later in the day. With a number of states, including Uttar Pradesh, Punjab, Uttarakhand and Goa, gearing up for Assembly election early next year, campaigning has begun full throttle in several places and rallies have started witnessing large gatherings, any of which may turn into a potential hotspot for coronavirus spread."Observe all precautions. Don't let your guard down,” the Centre said, while urging local administrations to remain vigilant and monitor case positivity, doubling rates, clusters of new cases across districts.According to ANI inputs, the Centre also asked the states to ensure 100 per cent coverage of those who are yet to receive their first dose against the virus and accelerate the inoculation of eligible second dose beneficiaries. The Centre also called for strengthening “door-to-door vaccination campaigns in states and Union territories where vaccination coverage is below the national average”.It also asked the states to consider local curbs and restrictions ahead of the upcoming festive week. Regarding containment zones, the states can impose night curfews and would have to ensure strict regulation of large gatherings, especially, notified containment zones, buffer zones in case in new Covid clusters||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/centre-asks-poll-bound-states-to-ramp-up-vaccination-as-omicron-raises-alarm-101640254219393.html
23-12-2021||India||Bihar: What’s behind the criticism by HAM and VIP, and what it means for NDA||PATNA: A chief minister forced to deal with the vagaries of coalition partners, particularly in the complicated coalition politics of Bihar, is hardly unusual. Chief Minister Nitish Kumar, in the chair now for the fourth time, despite being a junior ally, is as adept as any. One year into his most recent tenure, Kumar has played his cards close to his chest so far, looking to build on the twin agenda of special status and prohibition.
23-12-2021||India||India’s hospital infra inadequate to deal with emergency cases: NITI Aayog||New Delhi: While efforts are being made to upgrade the medical infrastructure for Covid-19, especially with the surge in Omicron cases, a report by NITI Aayog points at lacunae in the existing health care infrastructure for emergency and injury cases in the country.
23-12-2021||India||Ayodhya Land scam: Mayawati says Supreme Court should intervene into controversy||Bahujan Samaj Party (BSP) supremo Mayawati on Thursday said the Supreme Court should intervene in the latest alleged land scam in Ayodhya.Terming the controversy to be a “serious" one, the former chief minister of Uttar Pradesh, said a “high-level probe” should be conducted into the matter.Reports of involvement of family members of several ministers of the Yogi Adityanatha cabinet and officials in “usurping” land near the upcoming Ram Temple in Ayodhya have created a major flutter in the poll-bound state.Legislators, relatives of the commissioner, sub-district magistrate (SDM) and deputy inspector general (DIG) of police have reportedly bought land near the temple in Ayodhya at throwaway prices.Additional chief secretary, information, Navneet Sehgal, said the chief minister has ordered a probe into the matter. The revenue department of the state government has been directed to conduct the investigation and present a report in a week.Congress leaders, led by Rahul Gandhi, have launched an attack on the UP government saying that while “Hindus follow the path of truth, Hindutva robs under the guise of religion”.
23-12-2021||India||Understanding who you are, and what you enjoy, is what wellness is all about, says Kunal Rajput||‘Raw and Organic’ with strength and fitness coach Kunal Rajput on IVM Podcasts features fun and enriching conversations on mental and physical well-being, holistic wellness, fitness goals and tips. Founded in 2015, IVM Podcasts is India’s premiere podcast network that aims to serve listeners with a wide portfolio of audio content across genres. The network produces, distributes and monetizes talk and narrative based audio content across genres from comedy and politics to advertising and business. Q1. The pandemic has led to a newfound importance of holistic wellness, where people are not only seeking to be physically healthy, but are also prioritizing mental health. How is your show tying the two together?A1. I believe in having real conversations with people and showcasing the complete picture. People always look up to athletes and influencers for inspiration, but they only show their determined and motivational selves and not their vulnerable selves. However, even these people suffer from the same problems and insecurities as we all do. Raw and Organic podcast opens up that window for everyone and makes people come alive with normalcy, by showcasing a real and full picture.Q2. Can you share something about your journey as a fitness coach?A2. My journey as a fitness coach has always been evolving. I have evolved as a person who really understands and appreciates the human journey and the human mind. Over the years, I have realized that coaching is not the most difficult part, the most difficult part is understanding and relating to everybody else. My journey as a coach has always been in constant evolution, and I have always wanted to get better at departing knowledge and communicating my version of fitness better. But over time, I came to a point where I started relating to people as much as possible and helped them meet their goals in the most convincing and fun way possible.Q3. The most difficult aspect of any routine or regiment is consistency, how do you stay motivated and consistent with your workouts and what is your advice to your audiences on the same?A3. I think constantly staying motivated and being consistent is about understanding that motivation has a very different role to play in your journey. Motivation is the starting point of any kind of journey, but the only thing that is going to help you reach your goal is discipline because motivation passes and discipline stays. In order to be consistent, you have to ensure that you make things a habit.What has personally helped me is having conversations with myself and always asking myself ‘why?’ - why I started what I’m doing right now, why I’m working on something, and so on. The second thing that helps me stay on course is giving myself due credit and tapping myself on the back for every achievement.Q4. When one speaks of ‘wellness’ what does it encapsulate?A4. In my opinion, wellness is the proper balance of physical, mental and spiritual well-being. As humans, we are always trying to achieve an ideal version of our life.I think there is no ideal version of life, it’s what you hold within yourself. Everybody’s learnings, problems and achievements are different. Understanding who you are, and what you enjoy, and striking a balance between physical, mental and spiritual well-being is what wellness is all about.Q5. What role does your diet play in overall wellness?A5. A person’s diet is the most important part of their fitness journey. Besides maintaining a healthy and balanced diet for fitness, it also helps with overall wellness as there are foods that control your moods, your mental well-being and your hormones. It is extremely vital to maintain a balanced diet to ensure that you are getting all the minerals and nutrients your body requires. You should be able to eat what you like and at the same time understand what is not working for you; eventually creating that kind of balance.Q6. What is your the diet you would recommend people to try and what is your take on fad diets, keto, intermittent fasting etc?A6. As I have been doing this for a very long time, and I have a deeper relationship with my body, I know the signals my body gives me and I eat accordingly. I understand that when I feel low on energy I should have a heavy carb meal. If my recovery is slow, I have a high-protein diet. It’s something that is more variable according to my lifestyle.When it comes to different diets, you need to try and see how it works for your body. Intermittent fasting leads to a lowered calorie intake due to a small eating window, so people tend to lose weight with this diet.Q7 Is there any special advice you’d like to give to people working from home to balance their work and home life and the stress it entailsA7. It is vital to have a structure to your life and have a proper timeline. When you do not have to be at a different place and move around, you tend to get lazy and put things off for later. This is when the balance is lost. It is vital to have a schedule and adhere to it so that your life has some structure and discipline. At the end of the day, it will also make you feel like you have achieved something from your day.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/understanding-who-you-are-and-what-you-enjoy-is-what-wellness-is-all-about-says-kunal-rajput-101640253611720.html
23-12-2021||India||PM Modi launches multiple projects in Kashi, slams ‘elements’ mocking cows||Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Thursday launched a slew of developmental projects worth ₹2,095 crore in his parliamentary constituency Varanasi.Modi, who has been on a frequent visit to the poll-bound state, began his address after the inaugurations by paying tribute to India's former Prime Minister Chaudhary Charan Singh on his birth anniversary. “On this day, the country is also celebrating Kisan Diwas,” he added.Among the key projects launched during the day were Banas Dairy Kashi Sankul, a biogas plant in Ramnagar, a 50-bed Integrated Ayush Hospital at Bhadrasi, an inter-university centre for teachers education and a sewage treatment plant at Ramna village.Also Read| PM Modi in Varanasi today: Full list of projects to be launched by himThe Prime Minister said that some elements have created a situation in the country where speaking about cows becomes a crime. “They have made it a crime. For us, the cow is our mother. Those making fun of cows and buffaloes forget that almost 8 crore families in the country earn their livelihood by the means of livestock,” Modi said.It is because of such families that India can produce milk worth ₹8.5 lakh crore, Modi said, adding, that this value is more than the cost of production of wheat and rice.He added one of the top priorities of his government is strengthening the dairy sector, and hence, the foundation of the Banas Dairy Kashi Sankul was laid.Also Read| UP's women won't let opposition come back to power: PM Modi“Milk production in India has increased by about 45 per cent as compared to the last six-seven years. Today, India produces about 22 per cent of the world's milk. I'm happy that today UP is not only the largest milk-producing state in the country, it's also ahead in the expansion of the dairy sector,” the Prime Minister further said.The Banas Dairy Kashi Sankul is situated at the UP State Industrial Development Authority Food Park in Varanasi's Karkhiyaon. Spread across 30 acres of land, the dairy will be built at a cost of about ₹475 crore and will have a facility for processing 5 lakh litres of milk per day.Modi will also transfer a ₹35 crore bonus to the bank accounts of over 1.7 lakh milk producers associated with Banas Dairy.This is Modi's second visit to Varanasi in just 10 days. He inaugurated the first phase of the Kashi Vishwanath Corridor on December 13.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/pm-modi-launches-multiple-projects-in-kashi-slams-elements-mocking-cows-101640249633329.html
23-12-2021||India||Ludhiana court blast: Man killed might have been carrying the bomb, suspect cops||Ludhiana police commissioner Gurpreet Bhullar said the explosion that rocked the Ludhiana district court premises on Thursday at around 12.25pm might have been executed by a human bomb. "Though not confirmed, the person whose body is inside and is yet to be identified was either carrying the bomb or was very close to the same, we are investigating," Bhullar said. Police have not picked the body and are waiting for the NSG's bomb disposal squad to investigate the link between the man and the mysterious explosion that took place near the washroom on the second floor of the district court complex in Ludhiana. The CP said the deceased is the prime suspect of the blast.Police have confirmed one death in the explosion, though initially two deaths were reported from the spot. The incident ahead of elections has created a stir as chief minister Charanjit Singh Channi blamed anti-national elements behind the explosion."Saddened over the news of blast at Ludhiana court complex. I'm reaching the blast site shortly and I assure the people of the state that the guilty would not be spared. Anybody trying to disturb the peace and harmony of the state will be taken to task," Channi tweeted.SAD leader advocate Harish Rai Dhanda, who will be contesting in the upcoming assembly election, claimed that he was the target of the attack. Accusing MLA Simarjit Singh Bains of masterminding the attack, Harish Rai Dhanda said his chamber is barely 50 feet from the blast site and he escaped the blast by only a few minutes as he left his chamber just before the explosion.Former Punjab chief minister Amarinder Singh said he was saddened to know about the deaths in the blast. "Disturbing news of a blast at Ludhiana court complex. Saddened to know about the demise of two individuals. Praying for the recovery of those injured. Punjab Police must get to the bottom of this,” Amarinder Singh tweeted. Shiromani Akali Dal chief Sukhbir Singh Badal tweeted, “Shocked by news of blast at Ludhiana district court where two people lost their lives and several injured. May Guru Sahib grant peace to departed souls & fast recovery to the injured. Pb govt must focus on law & order instead of political vendetta to ensure peace & communal harmony in State.”Delhi chief minister Arvind Kejriwal also condemned the incident and said, “First sacrilege, now blast. Some people want to disturb the peace of Punjab. Three crore people of Punjab will not allow their plans to succeed.”
23-12-2021||India||Bengal minister Firhad Hakim is new Kolkata mayor||West Bengal minister Firhad Hakim was on Thursday declared as the next mayor of Kolkata, four days after the Trinamool Congress (TMC) registered a comprehensive victory in the city's mayoral polls, winning 134 out of 144 wards of the Kolkata Municipal Corporation (KMC).Also Read | Kolkata to get its new mayor today after 19 monthsThe decision was taken at a Trinamool meeting chaired by party supremo and West Bengal chief minister Mamata Banerjee. Leaders, including Abhishek Banerjee, the TMC's national general secretary, were among those who attended the meeting.“@Jb. @FirhadHakim is again the Hon'ble Mayor of Kolkata Municipal Corporation,” tweeted Dr Riju Dutta, a spokesperson of West Bengal's ruling party. Jb. @FirhadHakim is again the Hon’ble Mayor of Kolkata Municipal Corporation!! ✌️ pic.twitter.com/EQzHReppDgHakim, the state transport minister and a key aide of the chief minister, was considered by many as the front-runner for the office, of which he has been a previous incumbent.The minister's previous term, which began in late 2018, ended in May last year. Since then, he was heading the board of administrators, which was in-charge of running the civic body.The Kolkata Municipal Corporation elections took place on December 19, while the counting of votes took place on December 21. Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP), the state's principal opposition party, won three wards, while the Congress and the Left were victorious on two each.Also Read | Mamata Banerjee’s TMC pulls off landslide win in Kolkata municipal electionsThree independents, who won their respective wards, are likely to join the Trinamool Congress in the coming days.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/bengal-minister-firhad-hakim-is-new-kolkata-mayor-101640250798623.html
23-12-2021||India||Priority on two doses for entire population in India, says Kerala doc amid calls for boosters||Covishield and Covaxin – the two vaccines that are being administered against coronavirus in India – are providing equal protection from death and a two-dose or three-dose group would not make any difference in fatality rates.The statement was made by a senior doctor from Kerala amid growing calls for booster doses in the wake of the highly transmissible Omicron variant of Covid-19 spreading its tentacles in the country and elsewhere.Dr Rajeev Jayadevan, vice chairman of the research cell of Kerala’s unit of Indian Medical Association, further said that the priority in India is to get two doses administered to the entire population.“What we want as a country is to minimize the number of deaths. Two-dose and three-dose groups have absolutely no difference in the death rates. Both are offering equal protection against death. In India, our priority is to get two shots to the entire population,” Dr Jayadevan was quoted as saying by news agency ANI.Also read | India marks another milestone in Covid-19 vaccination drive, 60% of population fully inoculatedHe further said that so far, there has been no signal from anywhere in the country that people are falling sick after taking either of the vaccines. “Until today, there has been no decline in the protection offered by both vaccines, Covishield and Covaxin. No signal has come from anywhere in India that people are suddenly falling sick after taking these vaccines,” he added.The senior doctor’s statement came on a day AstraZeneca said its Covid-19 vaccine that is being being manufactured and marketed here by the Serum Institute of India as Covishield, is effective against the rapidly-spreading Omicron variant, citing data from an Oxford University lab study.Meanwhile, India reported a significant rise in Covid-19 cases with 7,495 new infections being registered in the last 24 hours.Prime Minister Narendra Modi is set to chair a review meeting later in the evening.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/priority-on-two-doses-for-entire-population-in-india-says-kerala-doctor-101640251372320.html
23-12-2021||India||Wife tests positive for Covid-19, Akhilesh takes break from public programmes||With his family members testing positive for Covid-19, Samajwadi Party (SP) chief Akhilesh Yadav on Thursday said he will keep away from public programmes for three days as a precautionary measure.Taking to Twitter, he wished the joint rally of alliance partners SP-Rashtriya Lok Dal in Iglas "immense success"."Due to family members testing positive for coronavirus, I will not attend public programmes for three days as a precaution."Best wishes for the immense success of today's Iglas joint rally and appeal to all the workers to participate with full enthusiasm and energy," Yadav tweeted in Hindi.He also attached his negative RT-PCR test certificate.The former chief minister's wife and former SP MP Dimple Yadav had tested positive for Covid-19 on Wednesday."I am fully vaccinated and not showing any symptoms yet. I have isolated myself... I request all those who met me recently to get themselves tested," she had said in a tweet.According to a government release, Chief Minister Yogi Adityanath telephoned Yadav and inquired about the health of his "wife and daughter", besides wishing them a speedy recovery.The SP, however, has not officially confirmed whether Yadav's daughter has tested positive for the virus.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/wife-tests-positive-for-covid-19-akhilesh-takes-break-from-public-programmes-101640250807686.html
23-12-2021||India||'Order is of June. You come now': Court to Juhi Chawla on her plea against dismissal of 5G petition||Bollywood actor Juhi Chawla has moved the Delhi high court challenging the dismissal of her suit against the rollout of 5G. As the Delhi high court listed the appeal for hearing on January 25 saying that there was no grave urgency in that matter, the bench said, "Order is of June. You come now. Six months have gone." Juhi Chawla's counsel Salman Khurshid said the present case was an "unfortunate" one and urged the court to advance the date of hearing, news agency PTI reported.Juhi Chawla and a few others had approached the Delhi high court against 5G rollout which a single-judge bench in June termed as 'defective' and 'abuse of process of law'. The bench also noted that the suit was filed for gaining publicity and imposed a fine of ₹20 lakh.Against the single-bench rule, the petitioners, including Juhi Chawla, has moved before the division bench and contended that the single judge dismissed the plea and imposed costs without any jurisdiction and contrary to the settled law. A plaint can be dismissed only after it has been allowed to be registered as a suit.The appellants reiterated the points against 5G that they earlier stated. "Every day that the 5G trials are allowed to continue constitutes a distinct and imminent danger to the health of the people who reside in the vicinity of the area where the trials are being conducted," it said.The original plea was moved in May and Juhi Chawla joined the court proceeding through video conferencing. Following the dismissal of the plea, Juhi Chawla had released a video saying she is not against 5G technology. The petition was only to seek the government's clarification on 5G that the technology is safe, the actor said at that time.(With PTI inputs)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/order-is-of-june-you-come-now-court-to-juhi-chawla-on-her-plea-against-dismissal-of-5g-petition-101640251078019.html
23-12-2021||India||10 crore Covid vaccine doses administered in MP, says CM Shivraj Singh Chouhan||Madhya Pradesh Chief Minister Shivraj Singh Chouhan has said that the state has administered 10 crore COVID vaccine doses.Speaking to ANI on Wednesday, Chouhan said, "Madhya Pradesh has administrated 10 crore COVID vaccine doses (first & second) as of Wednesday, which is historic."The Chief Minister further informed that over 94 per cent of the eligible population has received the first dose of the vaccine while more than 87 per cent have been jabbed with the second dose as well."Over 94 per cent of the eligible population has received the first dose and more than 87 per cent the second dose," he said.More than 138 crore vaccine doses have been administered in the country so far.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/10-crore-covid-vaccine-doses-administered-in-mp-says-cm-shivraj-singh-chouhan-101640249195082.html
23-12-2021||India||Looting devotion of countless people: Priyanka Gandhi on Ayodhya ‘land scam’||Congress leader Priyanka Gandhi Vadra on Thursday lashed out at Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) leaders and government officials after reports emerged of them allegedly “usurping” land near the upcoming Ram Temple in Ayodhya. Conducting a press conference, the Congress general secretary said that an impartial inquiry needs to be conducted into the allegations and if proven true, it would mean that the state's ruling party has been “looting” and “toying with” the devotions of countless people in the country who donated something or the other for the Ram Mandir Trust.“Almost every household in the country has donated something to Ram Mandir Trust,” said Priyanka Gandhi while addressing reporters in New Delhi. “A door-to-door campaign was held too. It is a matter of devotion and that is being toyed with. The pieces of land of Dalits, which could not have been purchased, were grabbed.”LIVE: Special Congress Party Briefing at the AICC HQ.प्रेस वार्ताhttps://t.co/Cn3AxDrdzkShe alleged that there were a few pieces of land that were of a much lower value than what they were sold to the trust at.“It means that there exists a scam regarding the money which was collected through the donation,” Gandhi claimed.Taking note of the fact that the Uttar Pradesh government has ordered a probe into the ‘land grab’ reports, the Congress leader said that the Yogi Adityanath administration cannot be conducting the inquiry since the interests of BJP functionaries and senior government officials are allegedly involved.“Yes, the UP government is appointing an inquiry commission to probe the allegations, who will be the ones conducting the investigation? These are officials at the district collector-level,” Gandhi said, demanding instead an “unbiased” inquiry headed by the Supreme Court.“The temple is being built on the orders of the Supreme Court; so it is only natural that the inquiry, too, should be conducted at the level of the top court,” said the Congress leader.Notably, a news report has claimed that MLAs, mayors, relatives of the commissioner, SDM and DIG bought land in Ayodhya after the Supreme Court announced the verdict in the Ramjanmabhoomi-Babri Masjid dispute, clearing the way for construction of the Ram temple.Soon after the report came out, the Uttar Pradesh additional chief secretary (information), Navneet Sehgal, told the PTI news agency on Wednesday that “chief minister Yogi Adityanath has ordered the revenue department to probe the matter thoroughly”.Congress leaders have been attacking the government on the matter, with Rahul Gandhi charging that “Hindutva robs under the guise of religion”.Congress general secretary and chief spokesperson Randeep Surjewala termed it a “land scam”, charging there is an “open loot of land inside Ayodhya city by people connected to the BJP”.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/looting-devotion-of-countless-people-priyanka-gandhi-on-ayodhya-land-scam-101640244626982.html
23-12-2021||India||Movement of over 280 trains affected due to farmer agitation in Punjab: CPRO||Farmers continued to block railway tracks in Punjab for the fourth consecutive day, affecting the movement of more than 280 trains, officials said on Thursday. Farmers under the banner of the Kisan Mazdoor Sangharsh Committee have been protesting in various parts of Punjab, demanding complete loan waiver and compensation to families of those who died during the year-long anti-farm laws stir.The farmers have also asked the government to withdraw criminal cases filed against them for various charges related to the violence that occurred during the agitation."In the last 24 hours, the movement of more than 280 trains has been affected due to protest demonstrations by farmers in the Firozpur Division of the Northern Railway," Neeraj Sharma, chief public relations officer, said in a statement. "More than 400 trains have been affected in the last four days of protest," Sharma also stated.In view of the stir, Divisional Railway Manager of Ferozepur division Seema Sharma on Wednesday said the administration has set up help desks at all stations to provide all possible guidance to the passengers regarding the change in schedule or cancellation if there is any."We are trying to run the trains between short distance stations to avoid any hassle to the passengers," she said.The farmers have been squatting on railway tracks at different places in Ferozepur, Tarn Taran, Amritsar and Hoshiarpur since Monday.But on Wednesday, they expanded their agitation to Moga and Fazilka railway stations as well.Farmer union leader Satnam Singh Pannu said the protesters will not leave the tracks till their demands are fulfilled.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/movement-of-over-280-trains-affected-due-to-farmer-agitation-in-punjab-cpro-101640246616573.html
23-12-2021||India||2022 Punjab elections: Second coming or fractured mandate?||Amid a sweeping cold wave across the northern plains, Punjab has warmed up to a fierce four-way fight for the upcoming assembly elections in a marked shift in its political order for long dominated by arch-rivals Congress and Shiromani Akali Dal.
23-12-2021||India||Minimum temperature in north India to rise amid intensified western disturbances||A fresh intensity of western disturbance and its induced cyclonic circulation is likely to influence northwest India from December 26 and central India from December 27, according to IMD forecast. The cyclonic circulation will increase the minimum temperature in the northwest, east and central India.The Met department has predicted light to moderate rainfall over Punjab, Haryana, Chandigarh, Delhi and Uttar Pradesh and isolated rainfall over Rajasthan on December 26 and 27. Madhya Pradesh, Chhattisgarh, Vidarbha, Bihar and Jharkhand are also likely to get isolated rainfall from 27 to 29 December.Isolated hailstorm is also likely over Jammu division, lower Himachal Pradesh, northern parts of Punjab and Haryana on December 26 and over Uttarakhand and northwest Uttar Pradesh on December 26 and 27, 2021.A gradual rise in minimum temperatures by 2 to 4 degrees Celcius is expected over most parts of northwest, east and central India during the next two days and no significant change thereafter.Dense fog in the morning hours in isolated pockets over Punjab, Haryana and northeast India can be seen on December 24 and 25. In northwest Rajasthan, fog can be seen on 25 and 26 December. No cold wave conditions are likely to prevail over the country except Odisha (where cold waves in isolated pockets may occur during the next 24 hours) during the next seven days.Meanwhile, IMD on Thursday predicted light rain over and adjoining areas of Yamunanagar in Haryana's Saharanpur, Deoband in Uttar Pradesh.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/minimum-temperature-in-north-india-to-rise-amid-intensified-western-disturbances-101640246201318.html
23-12-2021||India||Ludhiana court blast: Punjab CM to visit spot, says ‘anti-nationals’ responsible||Punjab chief minister Charanjit Singh Channi has said he is on his way to Ludhiana, where an explosion inside a district court complex on Thursday led to deaths of at least two people, while injuring five others.Also Read | Explosion inside Ludhiana district court complex; 2 dead, 5 injured“I am going to Ludhiana. Some anti-national elements are doing such acts as assembly elections are coming. The government is on alert. Those found guilty will not be spared,” Channi said, according to news agency ANI. I am going to Ludhiana. Some anti-national elements are doing such acts as Assembly elections are nearing. The government is on alert. Those found guilty will not be spared: Punjab CM Charanjit Singh Channi on explosion at Ludhiana District Court Complex pic.twitter.com/T6trPdLr6bMeanwhile, reacting to the incident, Channi's predecessor Captain Amarinder Singh said that the Punjab Police should get to the bottom of the case. “Disturbing news of a blast at Ludhiana court complex. Saddened to know about the demise of 2 individuals, Praying for the recovery of those injured,” Singh shared on Twitter. Disturbing news of a blast at Ludhiana court complex. Saddened to know about the demise of 2 individuals, Praying for the recovery of those injured. @PunjabPoliceInd must get to the bottom of this.Thursday's explosion comes in the backdrop of last week's twin lynchings in the poll-bound state, over alleged attempts to desecrate the Guru Granth Sahib, the Sikh holy book. On December 18, a man was lynched inside the Golden Temple in Amritsar, while a day later, on December 19, another man was beaten to death by a mob in Kapurthala.Assembly elections in Punjab are likely to take place early next year.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/ludhiana-court-complex-blast-punjab-cm-to-visit-spot-blames-antinationals-101640246032238.html
23-12-2021||India||Explosion inside Ludhiana district court complex; 1 dead, 5 injured||At least one man was killed in an explosion reported from a district court complex of Ludhiana, located near the police commissionerate office, while five were injured. The explosion took place in the washroom on the second floor at around 12.22pm. The second floor of the building houses eight courtrooms, but not many people were present on Thursday because of a strike by a section of lawyers. The area has been cordoned off by the police and the court premises is being vacated. One of the injured has been identified as advocate RS Mand.According to reports, the lawyers were on a strike and that's why the number of lawyers present on the premises on Thursday was fewer than any other day. It is not yet known whether the blast was from any cylinder as the second floor also houses the canteen of the court. But as the explosion took place inside the washroom, a cylinder blast might not have been the case.  Ludhiana police commissioner Gurpreet Singh Bhullar said the situation inside the court complex is now under control and there is no need to panic. "An explosion was heard near the record room on the second floor of the Ludhiana Court complex. One person died, two persons were injured in the incident. Bomb disposal team and forensics team have been called from Chandigarh for investigation," the police commissioner said to ANI.Chief minister Charanjit Singh Channi said he will be going to Ludhiana. “I am going to Ludhiana. Some anti-national elements are doing such acts as Assembly elections are nearing. The government is on alert. Those found guilty will not be spared,” he said.  All government offices will be thoroughly checked now in a security overhaul following the district court explosion. Former chief minister Captain Amarinder Singh said the Punjab Police must get to the bottom of the case. “Disturbing news of a blast at Ludhiana court complex. Saddened to know about the demise of two individuals. Praying for the recovery of those injured. Punjab Police must get to the bottom of this,” Amarinder Singh tweeted. Disturbing news of a blast at Ludhiana court complex. Saddened to know about the demise of 2 individuals, Praying for the recovery of those injured. @PunjabPoliceInd must get to the bottom of this.The incident comes close on the heels of the sacrilege incidents that rocked the poll-bound state. A UP man was lynched on Saturday after an alleged attempt to commit sacrilege inside the sanctum sanctorum of the Golden Temple. The man reportedly jumped the golden grills inside the sanctum sanctorum and picked a sword and reached the place where a Sikh priest was reciting the holy Guru Granth Sahib.The blast raises questions over the security of the government buildings amid continuous reports of drones dropping weapons in Punjab. 
23-12-2021||India||150-year-old church vandalised in Karnataka’s Chikkaballapur||BENGALURU: Unidentified attackers vandalised a church in Karnataka’s Chikkaballapur district, around 65 km from Bengaluru, police said on Thursday.A parishioner reported the damage caused to a statue of St Antony before a police complaint was lodged. According to the complaint, a large stone was found inside an enclosure where the statue was kept at the 150-year-old church. Police said they have begun an investigation.Later, news agency ANI said a First Information Report (FIR) has been registered by Chickaballapur rural police station against unknown persons for vandalising St Anthony’s statue at St Joseph’s Church. There have been a series of attacks on Christians in the state over alleged conversions. According to a People’s Union for Civil Liberties report, 39 instances of hate crimes were reported against the community in Karnataka in 2021. The report titled “Criminalizing the Practice of Faith” listed out the 39 incidents. It added in some cases, the police and politicians colluded with right-wing organisations in carrying out the attacks.Explainer: Karnataka anti-conversion law and the legality of other such lawsThe fresh attack came as the state government tabled an anti-conversion bill in the Karnataka assembly.The bill has triggered protests amid attacks on Christians over alleged conversion of people by force or allurement.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/150yearold-church-vandalised-in-karnataka-s-chikkaballapur-101640244850768.html
23-12-2021||India||News updates from HT: Protesting farmers demands toll-free movement of vehicles||Here are today’s top news, analysis, and opinion. Know all about the latest news and other news updates from Hindustan Times.Protesting farmers meet Punjab CM Channi, demand toll-free movement of vehiclesFarmer unions, part of the Samyukt Kisan Morcha (SKM), have over the past four days put up demonstrations across multiple protest sites in Punjab, demanding a complete waiver of farm loans and compensation to the kin of those who died during the anti-farm laws stir. Read moreIndia marks another milestone in vaccination, 60% of population fully inoculatedIndia has hit a new milestone in the nationwide vaccination drive against the coronavirus disease (Covid-19), as 60 per cent of the country's entire population is fully vaccinated against the infectious disease with both doses of the Covid-19 shot, said Union health minister Mansukh Mandaviya on Thursday. Read more In pics: Srinagar's oldest church, closed for decades, opens ahead of ChristmasThe Saint Lukes church - one of the oldest in Kashmir - opened for public on Thursday, three decades after it was shut down. The development comes days ahead of Christmas. Read moreKim praises outgoing Chinese envoy Li JinjunNorth Korean leader Kim Jong Un praised outgoing Chinese ambassador Li Jinjun for helping to improve relations between Pyongyang and Beijing, state media reported on Thursday, as the envoy left office after seven years in the post. Read more'His preparations should be perfect': Ex-national selector explains how Dravid can get Kohli back to scoring ways in SAFormer India national selector Saba Karim believes the very experienced Rahul Dravid, India's head coach, can play a key role in helping Indian Test skipper Virat Kohli get back to scoring ways for the impending three-match Test series against South Africa, while adding that the 33-year-old will face a bigger challenge on the field than the one he is facing off the field. Read moreKangana Ranaut pulls up at police station in a saree and pearl necklace. See picsActor Kangana Ranaut finally turned up to the police station in Mumbai's Khar on Thursday morning. She was supposed to appear before the police on Wednesday in connection with an FIR registered against her for a post that allegedly linked farmers' protests to a separatist group, but failed to do so. Read more Apple Car faces make-or-break 2022 despite ‘hire and fire’ pastApple Car project kicked off in 2014 but has so far mostly been an exercise in leadership shuffling. Read more&amp;nbsp;||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/news-updates-from-ht-protesting-farmers-demands-toll-free-movement-of-vehicles-101640242033750.html
23-12-2021||India||Karnataka minister defends anti-conversion bill, says Congress govt ordered its drafting in 2016||BENGALURU: Karnataka law minister J C Madhuswamy on Thursday defended the controversial anti-conversion bill, which was tabled in the state assembly amid protests, saying they have brought it to ensure public order. He claimed former chief minister Siddaramaiah’s Congress government in 2016 directed the drafting of the bill and its scrutiny by the Law Commission. Madhuswamy said the bill was not then brought before the Cabinet. “We have taken the same bill and added a few more clauses to it,” Madhuswamy said. He requested Congress to help pass the bill.Siddaramaiah said he issued no such order for drafting the bill. TB Jayachandra, the then law minister, echoed him.Explainer: Karnataka anti-conversion law: The legality of other such lawsThe ruling Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) legislators and ministers alleged Siddaramaiah was attempting to divert the House from facts presented before it.Madhuswamy presented some documents to the assembly speaker that he claimed confirmed his claim.The Congress and Janata Dal (Secular) or JD(S) have opposed the bill, which has triggered protests amid a series of attacks on Christians in the state over alleged conversions of people by “force or allurement”.Unidentified attackers vandalised a church in Karnataka’s Chikkaballapur district, around 65 km from Bengaluru. The attack coincided with the tabling of the anti-conversion bill in the assembly.According to a People’s Union for Civil Liberties report, 39 instances of hate crimes were reported against the community in Karnataka in 2021. The report titled “Criminalizing the Practice of Faith” listed out the 39 incidents. It added in some cases, the police and politicians colluded with right-wing organisations in carrying out the attacks.BJP-ruled states such as Uttar Pradesh have criminalised what they call forced religious conversion, including through interfaith marriages. Critics of the legislation say they are being misused to target Muslims and Christians.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/karnataka-minister-defends-anti-conversion-bill-says-congress-govt-ordered-its-drafting-in-2016-101640244010764.html
23-12-2021||India||On Kisan Diwas, Akhilesh Yadav demands Bharat Ratna for Chaudhary Charan Singh||Samajwadi Party (SP) president Akhilesh Yadav on Thursday demanded Bharat Ratna for former Prime Minister Chaudhary Charan Singh, as the nation observed the 119th birth anniversary of the fifth person to hold the country's top post.“I offer hearty tributes to the most respected Chaudhary Charan Singh ji, as I remember him on his birth anniversary. Today, on the occasion of ‘Kisan Diwas,’ we strongly demand Bharat Ratna for Chaudhary Charan Singh ji, who dedicated his life for the farmers and the country,” Yadav shared on Twitter परम आदरणीय चौधरी चरण सिंह जी की जंयती पर उन्हें याद करते हुए हार्दिक श्रद्धा-सुमन! हम आज ‘किसान दिवस’ के अवसर पर किसानों और देश के लिए अपना जीवन समर्पित करनेवाले पूर्व प्रधानमंत्री चौधरी चरण सिंह जी को ‘भारत रत्न’ देने की पुरज़ोर माँग करते हैं। pic.twitter.com/kOZ0FSCk7eKnown for his work for the agricultural community, Charan Singh is frequently referred to as the ‘champion of India’s peasants.' His birth anniversary is, therefore, celebrated annually as ‘Kisan Diwas’ or National Farmers' Day.Also Read | Kisan Diwas 2021: Celebrating the birthday of Chaudhary Charan SinghFor the upcoming assembly elections in Uttar Pradesh, which are likely to take place early next year, Yadav, a former chief minister of the state, has entered into an alliance with, among others, the Rashtriya Lok Dal (RLD), which is headed by Jayant Chaudhary, the former PM's grandson. Delhi: Lok Sabha Speaker Om Birla, RLD chief Jayant Chaudhary, and others pay floral tribute to former PM #ChaudharyCharanSingh at Central Hall of Parliament, on his birth anniversary today. pic.twitter.com/Elzs5C90yTThe RLD was founded by Chaudhary Ajit Singh, Chaudhary Charan Singh's son.Bharat Ratna, meanwhile, is India's premier civilian award, and was instituted on January 2, 1954. Its first recipients were CV Raman, C Rajgopalachari and Dr S Radhakrishnan. It was last awarded in 2019, when it was conferred on Nanaji Deshmukh, Bhupen Hazarika and former President Pranab Mukherjee.Total 48 personalities have received the honour thus far.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/on-kisan-diwas-akhilesh-yadav-seeks-bharat-ratna-for-chaudhary-charan-singh-101640241219670.html
23-12-2021||India||No need to panic, says Tamil Nadu as state’s Omicron variant tally rises to 34||CHENNAI: The number of cases of the Omicron variant of Covid-19 in Tamil Nadu has risen to 34 with the confirmation of 33 new infections, health minister M Subramanian said on Thursday. The state reported the first such infection on December 15 when a 47-year-old man, who travelled from Nigeria via Doha, tested positive for it in Chennai.“We took up contact tracing and tested all his family members and contacts,” said Subramanian. He added of the 4,000 people traced, 91 tested positive for Covid-19. Subramanian said 57 of the people, who have mostly returned from high-risk countries, have shown an S gene drop, a marker of probable Omicron infection.Also Read: Can Omicron push Covid to turn endemic?“The 33 new cases and the one old case with Omicron are from the 57. All of them are being treated in hospitals and they are doing well. There is no reason to fear.” He added most of them are double vaccinated. Subramanian said reports of 23 people were awaited as they have been sent for genome sequencing.Health secretary J Radhakrishnan said they have asked district authorities to strengthen surveillance and containment. “...(those) admitted... are showing almost nil symptoms. There is no need to panic but we need the public cooperation to prevent this from spreading further.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/no-need-to-panic-says-tamil-nadu-as-state-s-omicron-variant-tally-rises-to-34-101640243174791.html
23-12-2021||India||30-year-old activist thrashed, tortured and left for dead in Rajasthan: Police||Unidentified assailants tortured a 30-year-old activist with nails after abducting him in Rajasthan’s Barmer district on Tuesday night days after he filed a police complaint against illegal liquor trade and shops in the area. Police said Amra Ram was picked up when he was returning home from a bus stand. His captors presumed he was dead and fled. Ram is under treatment at a hospital in Jodhpur and is reported to be out of danger. The assailants were absconding.Barmer police superintendent Deepak Bhargava said that Ram was seriously injured, suffered fractures in his leg and hands. He added that four police teams were being constituted to nab the assailants. “He (Ram) complained against illegal liquor trade, following which action was taken and illegal liquor was seized,” said Bhargava.The Rajasthan Human Rights Commission has taken cognisance of the incident and sought a report from the state police chief.According to news agency PTI on Wednesday, Bhargava said: “Prima facie, people involved in the illegal liquor trade are behind the attack”.
23-12-2021||India||Protesting farmers meet Punjab CM Channi, demand toll-free movement of vehicles||Protesting farmers, intending to pressurise the Congress government in Punjab to secure a bunch of demands including debt waiver, on Thursday met the state's chief minister Charanjit Singh Channi and presented their claims before the administration. According to farmer leader Joginder Singh, the farmers informed the chief minister of their demands – which include farm loan waivers, cancellation of FIRs lodged against farmers during the anti-farm law agitation, and compensation over land acquired for highway projects.The farmers, in their meeting with Punjab chief minister Channi, also demanded toll-free movement of their vehicles.Channi, in turn, assured the farmers that he will talk to Nitin Gadkari, the Union minister of road transport and highways.“We had a good meeting with the farmers' unions today,” the chief minister told reporters later in the day. “Many of their issues have been resolved. Farmers' loans up to ₹two lakhs will be waived in the next 10-12 days.”The next meeting between the state administration and the protesting farmers will take place on December 29, said Bharatiya Kisan Union (BKU) Ekta Ugrahan Punjab president Joginder Singh to the ANI news agency.“We met Punjab CM today over our demands which included farm loan waiver, compensation, etc,” Singh was quoted as saying. “The chief minister has said that he will talk to Union minister Nitin Gadkari on this. The next meeting is on December 29.”We met Punjab CM today over our demands which included farm loan waiver, compensation etc. We also demand toll-free movement of our vehicles. CM has said that he will talk to Union Minister Nitin Gadkari on this. Next meeting on Dec 29:BKU Ekta Ugrahan Punjab Pres Joginder Singh pic.twitter.com/mSDHMYJnQxFarmer unions, part of the Samyukt Kisan Morcha (SKM), have over the past four days put up demonstrations across multiple protest sites in Punjab, demanding a complete waiver of farm loans and compensation to the kin of those who died during the anti-farm laws stir. From Monday to Wednesday, they blocked railway tracks at different places in Ferozepur, Tarn Taran, Amritsar, and Hoshiarpur, affecting the movement of as many as 400 trains.According to the Northern Railway, the movement of more than 280 trains was affected in the last 24 hours alone. The Feroze division railway officials had said yesterday that 84 trains were cancelled, 47 short-terminated, and 25 short-originated.Meanwhile, a group of farmers also staged a sit-in on Wednesday outside the office of the deputy commissioner (DC) in Ludhiana.DC Varinder Kumar Sharma, who was not allowed to move out for lunch by the protesting farmers, finally came out of his office in the evening under a security cover.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/protesting-farmers-meet-punjab-cm-channi-demand-toll-free-movement-of-vehicles-101640240993660.html
23-12-2021||India||Shashi Tharoor talks about Rahul Gandhi; says why he had signed G-23 letter||Congress leader Shashi Tharoor said G-23, a group of 23 'rebel' Congress leaders who demanded more democracy in the party, was a media creation as 23 people happened to have signed the letter addressed to Sonia Gandhi. There could have been more people but only 23 could be reached as there was a lockdown at that time, Tharoor said. "I signed it because there was nothing exceptional... The letter says Congress should democratise itself more, we should revive the parliamentary board of the party, we should have elections to the elected seats of the working committee which are currently filled by nomination, we should revive the party at the grassroots," Tharoor said at the launch event of his latest book. Tharoor's claim comes at a time the party is staring at another crisis brewing in Uttarakhand as Harish Rawat expressed his helplessness in the party.Tharoor also claimed that all 23 leaders never met. "I did not think signing that, especially since people who were promoting it were very senior figures of the Congress party establishment, would cause as much offence as it turned out to cause. Indeed, it was seen as 23 people in rebellion and I do not think it was intended that way but has been seen that way."Focus on G23 leaders ahead of Congress organisational pollsIn August 2020, a group of 23 senior Congress leaders wrote a letter to Sonia Gandhi seeking an overhaul within the party. The 23 leaders include Ghulam Nabi Azad, Kapil Sibal, Shashi Tharoor, Manish Tewari, Anand Sharma, PJ Kurien, Renuka Chaudhary, Milind Deora, Mukul Vasnik, Jitin Prasad (now in BJP), Bhipender Singh Hooda, Rajinder Kaur Bhattal, Veerappa Moily, Prithviraj Chauhan, Ajay Singh, Raj Babbar, Arvind Singh Lovely, Kaul Singh Thakur, Kuldeep Sharma, Yoganand Shastri, Sandeep Dixit, Vivek Thankha.'That is where we are now': Tharoor on Congress electionOn the issue of Congress getting an elected president, Tharoor said people who are there by bloodline can also get elected. "In fact, there is very little doubt that Rahul Gandhi, if he were willing to contest, would get elected against anybody else in the Congress because the electorate of party workers has a certain sense of allegiance to the Gandhi-Nehru family for decades now which is not going to be easily overcome," Tharoor said."In Rahul's case, in all fairness, he stepped aside, he even made a statement that 'it should not be me or anyone from my family', but the working committee went for Mrs (Sonia) Gandhi and pulled her out of retirement and said please lead us. So that is where we are now," he said."I would say that this is a phenomenon across all parties. In SP, was there any question that after Mulayam ji, it would be Akhilesh; in DMK, was there any question that after Karunanidhi, it is Stalin; in Shiv Sena after Balasahab Thackrey, it is Uddhav," Tharoor said.'Told party we should not disrupt Parliament'Tharoor said he believes that the opposition parties should not disrupt the parliamentary proceeding but should use it as a platform for debate. Going in for disruptions, the opposition has become marginalised and it is complicit in its own marginalisation, Tharoor said as the Winter Session of Parliament ended on Wednesday."To some degree, we are complicit in our own marginalisation, by going in for disruptions, we no longer have a choice to voice our positions for the nation to understand. But I recognise that mine is a minority view. I have not hidden my view and the party is very aware of my view that we should not disrupt, that we should use Parliament as a platform for debate, and do our rallies, dharnas and agitations elsewhere and on the streets," the Thiruvananthapuram MP said.(With PTI inputs)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/shashi-tharoor-talks-about-rahul-gandhi-says-why-he-had-signed-g-23-letter-101640242029927.html
23-12-2021||India||High-level probe into death of shooter Konica Layak, orders Soren||Jharkhand Chief Minister Hemant Soren has ordered a high-level inquiry into the death of 26-year-old shooter Konica Layak in neighbouring West Bengal. The national-level shooter, who hailed from Jharkhand's Dhanbad, was found hanging in her hostel room in Howrah's Bali. West Bengal Police said that she had left behind a note blaming "depression" for her suicide. Dhanbad MLA Raj Sinha, along with Layak's parents, however, met the chief minister on Wednesday and alleged that there was a "big conspiracy" behind the shooter's death, and demanded punishment for the culprits.Soren directed Home Department Principal Secretary Rajeev Arun Ekka and Director General of Police Neeraj Sinha to investigate the matter. The chief minister informed Layak's parents that the Jharkhand government will investigate the matter on its own and will contact the West Bengal administration if needed, and assured them that they will get justice if any wrongdoing is found. The shooter, who had won a few medals at the Jharkhand state level, was training along with Olympian and Arjuna Awardee Joydeep Karmakar in Kolkata.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/highlevel-probe-into-death-of-shooter-konica-layak-orders-soren-101640241693683.html
23-12-2021||India||In pics: Srinagar's oldest church, closed for decades, opens ahead of Christmas||The Saint Lukes church - one of the oldest in Kashmir - opened for public on Thursday, three decades after it was shut down. The development comes days ahead of Christmas.The church is located near the Chest Diseases Hospital on the foothills of the Shankaracharya hillock in Dalgate area of Srinagar. A prayer was held on Wednesday, a day before its official opening.
23-12-2021||India||Kisan Diwas 2021: Celebrating the birthday of Chaudhary Charan Singh||December 23 every year is celebrated as 'Kisan Diwas' in India to mark the birth anniversary of fifth prime minister of India, Chaudhary Charan Singh. This year, the day comes after farmers, mainly from Punjab and Haryana, ended their year-long protest following the rollback of three central laws by the government.India has been celebrating Singh's birthday as National Farmers Day since 2001."The birth anniversary of Chaudhary Charan Singh ji is celebrated as 'Farmer's Day' all over India. Hearty congratulations to all the farmers. Congratulations to the farmers who have created crops in the field and happiness in the country with their hard work. PM Shri @narendramodi's government is fully dedicated for the welfare of farmers," Union defence minister Rajnath Singh said on Twitter on the occasion.The farmers have, however, vowed to continue their agitation, with farmer leader Rakesh Tikait promising to take up issues related to farmers with the Centre.Significance of Kisan DiwasThe day celebrates the farmers and their work in the country. It marks the contribution of the former prime minister to the agricultural reforms of India.Singh was given the sobriquet ‘Champion of India’s Peasants’ for his work towards upliftment of farmers and development of agriculture throughout the country.He also authored several books on farmers' upliftment. Some prominent titles are - ‘Abolition of Zamindari’, ‘Co-operative Farming X’, ‘Prevention of Division of Holdings Below a Certain Minimum’.Importance of agriculture in Indian economyAlmost half of India’s rural households have insignificant stakes in agriculture. According to 2019 Situation Assessment Survey (SAS), there are 93.1 million agricultural households in rural India.An agricultural household is defined as one which produced field or horticultural crops, livestock, or other specified agricultural products worth more than ₹4,000 and had a member self-employed in agriculture in the 365 days preceding the survey.All you need to know about Chaudhary Charan SinghChaudhary Charan Singh was born on December 23, 1902, in Uttar Pradesh, in a middle-class peasant family.Influenced by Mahatma Gandhi’s non-violence, Singh entered the Independence movement. After Independence, he associated himself with socialism in rural areas.He was the chief architect of land reforms in Uttar Pradesh. He took a leading part in the formulation and finalisation of the Debt Redemption Bill 1939, which brought great relief to rural debtors.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/kisan-diwas-2021-celebrating-the-birthday-of-chaudhary-charan-singh-101640238565455.html
23-12-2021||India||India marks another milestone in Covid-19 vaccination drive, 60% of population fully inoculated||India has hit a new milestone in the nationwide vaccination drive against the coronavirus disease (Covid-19), as 60 per cent of the country's entire population is fully vaccinated against the infectious disease with both doses of the Covid-19 shot, said Union health minister Mansukh Mandaviya on Thursday. In a tweet from his official handle on the microblogging website, the minister lauded public health workers, medical professionals, and citizens from all across the country for making this feat possible.“Accomplishing more new feats!” tweeted Union health minister Mandaviya. “Congratulations India. Aided by public participating and dedicated efforts of our health workers, over 60% of the eligible population is fully vaccinated now.”Accomplishing more new feats!Congratulations India 🇮🇳 Aided by public participation & dedicated efforts of our health workers, over 60% of the eligible population fully vaccinated now 💉#SabkoVaccineMuftVaccine pic.twitter.com/cts7lR8SzAAs of 8am on December 23, India had administered more than 139.70 crore of Covid-19 vaccines, according to the Union ministry of health and family welfare. Of these, 70.17 lakh doses were administered in the last 24 hours alone.#Unite2FightCorona #IndiaFightsCorona #OmicronVariant pic.twitter.com/kKqNLgfpf3It also said that a total of 34,208,926 people across the country have so far recovered from the infectious disease, which puts the nationwide recovery rate at 98.40 per cent, the highest since March 2020. The daily case positivity rate is 0.62 per cent; it has remained less than two per cent for the past 80 days.The weekly positivity rate (0.59 per cent) has also stayed less than one per cent for the past 39 days. Meanwhile, 66.86 crore tests have been conducted across the country.There have, however, been rising concerns regarding the spread of the Omicron variant of the SARS-CoV-2 coronavirus, which is said to be highly infectious and capable of undergoing frequent mutations. Prime Minister Narendra Modi will be holding a review meeting at 6:30pm on Thursday to take stock of the pandemic situation across the country, officials have confirmed.So far, India has recorded 236 cases of the Omicron variant of coronavirus across 16 states and Union territories, out of which 104 people have recovered or migrated.In a communication on Tuesday, the Centre said the Omicron variant of the coronavirus is at least thrice more transmissible than its Delta variant and asked states and UTs to “activate” war rooms, keep analysing even small trends and surges, and take strict and prompt containment action at the district and local levels.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/india-marks-another-milestone-in-covid-19-vaccination-drive-60-of-population-fully-inoculated-101640237258232.html
23-12-2021||India||Omicron: Tamil Nadu sees massive jump in cases, 33 fresh infections push state's tally to 34||Tamil Nadu witnessed a major spike in its Omicron case count, with 33 fresh infections taking the tally of such cases in the southern state to 34, state health minister Ma Subramanian said on Thursday. Of the new patients, 26 were detected in capital Chennai alone, Subramanian added.Also Read | Omicron: Tamil Nadu urges Centre to issue norms for passengers arriving in state from non ‘at-risk’ countriesSharing more details, the minister said that all 33 persons are stable. “As soon as the experts found ‘s’ gene drop in the patients' samples, the individuals were put under isolation,” he further said.According to medical experts, an ‘s’ gene drop indicates that an individual has contracted the Omicron variant, which is also denoted as B.1.1.529.Tamil Nadu's first case of Omicron was confirmed last Thursday, when a Nigerian national, who arrived in Chennai from his home nation, via Doha, returned positive test result.Nationally, at least 236 infections of the variant have been detected thus far, the Union health ministry said on Thursday. Maharashtra and Delhi, with 65 and 64 cases respectively, are at the top. Tamil Nadu's tally is the third-highest in the country, though the change will be reflected on Friday, when the ministry will release the next set of figures.As of December 23, a total of 104 patients have been discharged after recovering from the infection.The emergence and spread of the B.1.1.529 variant has prompted states to reintroduce curbs ahead of the Christmas and New Year celebrations. Later today, Prime Minister Narendra Modi will chair a meeting to review the overall Covid-19 situation in the country.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/omicron-tamil-nadu-sees-massive-spike-33-new-cases-push-state-s-tally-to-34-101640236062989.html
23-12-2021||India||UP govt orders probe in Ayodhya's land-grabbing case by BJP's kin||The Uttar Pradesh government has ordered a probe into reports of relatives of BJP leaders and government officials allegedly "usurping" land near the upcoming Ram Temple in Ayodhya.A news report has claimed that MLAs, mayors, relatives of the commissioner, SDM and DIG bought land in Ayodhya after the Supreme Court announced the verdict in the Ramjanmabhoomi-Babri Masjid dispute, clearing the way for construction of the Ram temple.Uttar Pradesh Additional Chief Secretary, Information, Navneet Sehgal told PTI on Wednesday that "Chief Minister Yogi Adityanath has ordered the revenue department to probe the matter thoroughly,"Congress leaders have attacked the government on the matter with Rahul Gandhi charging that "Hindutva robs under the guise of religion"."Hindus follows the path of truth. Hindutva robs under the guise of religion," he had said in a tweet in Hindi, tagging the news report.Leader of Opposition in Rajya Sabha Mallikarjun Kharge also sought to raise the issue in the House on Wednesday.Congress general secretary and chief spokesperson Randeep Surjewala termed it a "land scam", charging there is an "open loot of land inside Ayodhya city by people connected to the BJP"."Respected Modiji, when will you open your mouth on this open loot? The Congress party, the people of the country and Ram Bhakts are asking these questions. Is this not treason? Is it anything less than treason? The BJP is now running the business of 'Andher Nagri, Chaupat Raja' in Ayodhya," he had alleged.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/up-govt-orders-probe-in-ayodhya-s-land-grabbing-case-by-bjp-s-kin-101640236902354.html
23-12-2021||India||Covid-19: Nationwide caseload up by 7,495 cases; Omicron tally at 236||The Covid-19 tally in India went up by 7,495 cases on Thursday amid a surge in the Omicron variant across the country. The overall caseload now stands at 34,765,976, according to the data published on the Union ministry of health and family welfare's website.The number of Omicron also surged and reached 236 on Thursday, the ministry further informed. Out of this, 106 people have been recovered, it also added.Notably, Maharashtra has replaced Delhi as the top state with the highest number of Omicron cases. According to the Centre's tally, the state now has maximum cases with 65 cases, followed by the national capital with 64 and Telangana (24), Rajasthan (21), Karnataka (19), Kerala (15), Gujarat (14).The death toll has climbed to 478,759 with 434 fresh fatalities, the ministry also stated.The active caseload reported a fall of 101 cases and reached 78,291. It currently accounts for With 0.23 per cent of the total caseload.The recovery rate improved to 98.40%, the highest since March 2020, the health ministry data also showed. As many as 6,960 people were recovered from the viral infection in the last 24 hours. The cumulative number of recoveries now stands at 34,208,926.Meanwhile, the country has administered 1.39 billion vaccine doses under the nationwide inoculation drive.The daily rise in new Covid-19 infections has been recorded below 15,000 for the last 56 days now.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/covid19-nationwide-caseload-up-by-7-495-cases-omicron-tally-at-236-101640232651747.html
23-12-2021||India||Harish Rawat, Uttarakhand Congress leaders called to Delhi amid fresh row||Former Uttarakhand chief minister Harish Rawat, Congress legislature party leader Pritam Singh, state Congress chief Ganesh Godiyal, party leader Yashpal Arya have been summoned to Delhi by the high command after fresh trouble broke out in the Congress Uttarakhand unit. Harish Rawat on Wednesday posted a series of cryptic tweets in which he expressed his displeasure in the way the party unit is functioning and said the thought that maybe it's time for him to rest has crossed his mind.Claiming that he is not getting any support from the party, Rawat tweeted, "Isn't it strange, one has to swim in the sea in the form of forthcoming electoral battle, instead of cooperation, the organisational structure at most places is turning its face away or is playing a negative role." "There are many crocodiles of the ruling dispensation. On whose directions one has to swim, their nominees are tying my hands and feet," he added.Manish Tewari speaks out on Harish Rawat issue, says ‘First Assam, then Punjab’"And then quietly in a corner of mind, a voice is erupting, 'na denyam, na palaynam' (one who does not bow, does not flee). Perhaps the new year will show the way. I have faith that Lord Kedarnath will provide me guidance in this situation," Rawat said.What happened in Uttarakhand?Harish Rawat's tweets have not made it clear exactly what happened in the state unit of the party. While speculations are rife that Harish Rawat may quit the Congress which will be a big jolt for the party in the poll-bound state, some political observers think the stage is not yet set for Rawat's exit as Rawat has been a trusted man of the Congress. Not part of the G-23, Rawat has the reputation to be the Congress's troubleshooter -- be it in Assam or in Punjab.Harish Rawat's advisor Surinder Aggarwal hinted at BJP's role in a conspiracy creating a rift inside the Congress. "Harish Rawat is a senior leader of Congress. If his posters are removed from Rahul Gandhi's rally in the presence of Devendra Yadav, then his role comes into doubt. There's a probability that Devendra Yadav is involved in the conspiracy. BJP may have used ED or CBI to threaten any of our members. They may have misguided our colleague to fulfil their motive of creating differences between Harish Rawat and our members. BJP has done this before and it is a small task for them," Rawat's advisor said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/harish-rawat-uttarakhand-congress-leaders-called-to-delhi-amid-fresh-row-101640236081621.html
23-12-2021||India||'Pralay', India's first conventional ballistic missile, test-fired again||India conducted the second trial of 'Pralay' conventional ballistic missile off the APJ Abdul Kalam island in Odisha on Thursday morning. The developmental trial of the missile was successful with the platform reaching a range of 500 kilometres.'Pralay' is India's first conventional ballistic missile and is an answer to any conventional missile attack from northern or western borders. The missile development is significant as India had no conventionally armed ballistic missile and was hampered by 'No First Use' nuclear policy. It is also the first time in history that two tests of conventional ballistic missiles were done successfully on consecutive days.Watch: Made-in-India new generation 'Pralay' missile successfully testedWednesday's missile range was 400 kilometres. The missile is an offensive weapon to destroy targets across land and sea and is Indian answer to any carrier task force of the adversary in future.The solid-fuel, battlefield missile developed by the Defence Research Development Organisation (DRDO) is based on Prithvi Defence Vehicle from the Indian ballistic missile programme.‘Pralay’ is powered with a solid propellant rocket motor and other new technologies. The missile guidance system includes state-of-the-art navigation and integrated avionics, according to the DRDO.The advanced missile has been developed in a way to be able to defeat interceptor missiles. It has the ability to change its path after covering a certain range mid-air.After the missile test on Wednesday, Union defence minister Rajnath Singh congratulated DRDO and associated teams for this maiden development.He also complimented DRDO for the fast track development and successful launch of the modern surface-to-surface missile.
23-12-2021||India||Field staffers at Mizoram's Dampa tiger reserve distressed over unpaid wages||NEW DELHI: Around 160 field staffers of Mizoram’s Dampa Tiger Reserve, who have not been paid their salaries since May, are considering going on strike if the payments are not made before Christmas.“We have faced a lot of problems... My salary is ₹11,000 monthly...I have not got any money for so long... I have been completely dependent on my parents and family for food. Other field staff, who have larger families, are lending...which they have to repay when we get our salaries. Christmas is our most important festival but none of us will be able to celebrate,” said Lal Vohbika, a guard.The staffers stay in the anti-poaching camp in the reserve’s core area for a week by turns. They patrol the core and buffer areas, conduct camera trapping and other conservation activities. “Our work involves a lot of risks. Hunting and poaching are common problems here. We have to spend a week in the anti-poaching camp which is difficult. At least we should be compensated on time. We did not go on strike till now mainly because of the hunting problem here,” said Vohbika.Mizoram’s principal chief conservator of forests Pu Jitendra Kumar said they were hoping to pay the staff salaries soon.National Tiger Conservation Authority (NTCA) officials blamed the state government’s non-compliance with new regulations for the non-payment. “Earlier we used to transfer money and that would often get diverted by state departments for other purposes. Now under the new rules and the Public Financial Management System, payments will be made scheme-wise. So, the state government was supposed to open an account only for NTCA related payments. But the state government could not create that account. From our end, the money has been transferred. We are not sure why it has not reached the staff yet,” said an NTCA official, requesting anonymity.Wildlife Conservation Trust president Anish Andheria called the field staff the lifeblood of the protection mechanism in tiger reserves. “To not pay them for seven months is inhuman. They earn ₹250 to ₹300 daily... Unfortunately, this problem is not limited to Dampa, it is happening in many other parks. Because they are temporary staff, the state government does not seem to recognise them. They are faceless entities despite their unparalleled contribution. Undoubtedly, for tiger reserves, they are the most important defence mechanism in the absence of an adequate number of permanent staff.”The Status of Tigers, Copredators, and Prey in India report released last year noted reserves such as Dampa require resources and targeted management.Forest guard Zakhuma Don camera trapped a tiger in Dampa in June this year after seven years while an elusive Blue Pitta was photographed in November.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/may-go-on-strike-over-unpaid-wages-say-mizoram-s-dampa-tiger-reserve-staffers-101640235070089.html
23-12-2021||India||Manish Tewari speaks out on Harish Rawat issue, says ‘First Assam, then Punjab’||Congress G-23 leader Manish Tewari on Thursday posted a cryptic tweet criticising Harish Rawat and indirectly the Congress leadership, a day after senior Congress leader and former Uttarakhand chief minister Harish Rawat stirred a fresh row for the Grand Old Party, expressing dissatisfaction over the factionalism in the state unit of the party.  Pointing out a pattern, Tewari said, "First Assam, then Punjab, now Uttarakhand." “Bhog poora hi paun gaye. Kasar na rahe jawe koi,” Tewari tweeted. Harish Rawat played a crucial role in the functioning of the party units in all these states. FIRST ASSAM THEN PUNJAB NOW UTTRAKHAND…..BHOG POORA HI PAUN GAYE KASAR NA RAHE JAWE KOI 😎@harishrawatcmuk https://t.co/yQYClbLRMBHarish Rawat, who was taking care of the affairs in Punjab and was the Congress's trusted man in resolving the issue between Navjot Sidhu and Amarinder Singh, which finally led to Amarinder Singh's exit from the CM post and then from the party, on Wednesday said his hands were being tied. He alleged non-cooperation from the party's Uttarakhand unit and dropped a hint that the idea that 'it is time to rest' has been crossing his mind."Isn't it strange, one has to swim in the sea in the form of forthcoming electoral battle, instead of cooperation, the organisation has turned away its face or is playing a negative role," Rawat said. "There are many crocodiles of the ruling dispensation. On whose directions one has to swim, their nominees are tying my hands and feet," he added.The cryptic tweets triggered speculations on whether Rawat is now finding himself in the place of Amarinder Singh, who claimed he was insulted by the Congress leadership. Later on Wednesday, Harish Rawat was asked to clarify his tweets to which he said, "When the time comes, I will call you (media) and share it with you. For now, enjoy this."Amarinder Singh, who has floated Punjab Lok Congress, to challenge Sidhu and the Congress apparently found a moment of divine justice in Harish Rawat's disgruntlement in the party and said, "You reap what you sow! All the best for your future endeavours (if there are any)"||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/manish-tewari-speaks-out-on-harish-rawat-issue-says-first-assam-then-punjab-101640233614670.html
23-12-2021||India||Delhi’s air crisis: Who pollutes, who suffers?||Monu, a 13-year-old living in a Delhi slum near the Yamuna river, was exposed on a particular day to an average of 150 micrograms per cubic metre (very poor) of PM2.5 while it is 35 (satisfactory) for 11-year-old Aamya, who resides in an apartment in a colony in GK-II in Delhi. So said a multimedia story (https://tinyurl.com/5au2kccx) by The New York Times in December 2020. Aamya and her family have access to air purifiers at home and in school even as her exposure to outdoor pollution is limited by air-conditioned cars, while the same doesn’t hold true for Monu.Chart 1 shows the exposure to PM 2.5 for both these children over 24 hours. As a result, Monu risks losing almost 5 years of his life, while Aamya half a year of hers. Both are avoidable. But how? The next three charts look at the problem of pollution from the lens of class and discuss possible ways out.What pollutes?Pollution is measured by the Air Quality Index (AQI), which is calculated separately for eight pollutants — PM10, PM2.5, nitrogen dioxide, sulphur dioxide, carbon monoxide, ground-level ozone, ammonia, and lead — and the highest of these subindices is reported as AQI for that particular day. Since these pollutants are related to each other, controlling one will help control the others too. Instead of tracking all pollutants, the policy could focus on PM2.5, which measures all aerosols under 2.5 micrometers in diameter (our hair is almost 30 times as thick) and has contributions from all the other gaseous components.Chart 2 shows the source attribution for PM2.5. Three major contributors to pollution from the consumption side are — transport (private and public), fuel and electricity, and construction. Based on these numbers, 60% of AQI is contributed by consumption. But if these are the major sources, shouldn’t AQI remain similar through the year? It gets worse in winters not only because of stubble burning but also, among other factors, natural factors such as Delhi being shaped as a bowl, which traps pollutants for far longer as a result of the wind slowing down during the winter months.Who pollutes?It is beyond obvious that the affluent classes, as a result of their consumption patterns, pollute more than the poor but is it possible to quantify their respective contributions? It is difficult to provide an accurate measure but an approximate one can be derived from National Sample Survey (NSS) consumption data, which provides data on consumption of different deciles. We categorise different commodities in the consumption basket from the 2011-12 Consumption Expenditure Survey of the NSS according to the above mentioned three major sources of pollution. Based on the consumption basket of each decile and weighing them according to the shares of these three sources, we arrive at each decile’s share in total pollution. In chart 2, we show the share of each decile in the total pollution in Delhi. Chart 3 shows that the richest 10% of the population pollute 10 times as much as the poorest 10%.Who suffers?While all residents face the adverse health effects of pollution, the poor are more vulnerable to its ill-effects than the rich. This class difference comes out starkly in pollution related death data. NFHS does not generally provide reasons for death but in one of its rounds — the second (1998-99) — it had a question on the cause of death and two respiratory ailments were listed, both of which have a direct link to pollution: asthma and tuberculosis. This paper published in World Development (https://tinyurl.com/zhmp2evr) measured the difference in mortality across income groups. We club the classes in NSS to correspond to the NFHS category, using the above-mentioned paper’s methodology, to present a class funnel of contribution to the problem and its resulting effects (chart 4). While the contribution looks like a funnel with the high-income category polluting the most (chart 4 -a), the burden of death falls unduly on the bottom (the two pyramid like structures in chart 4-b). Those who contribute the least to the problem bear the maximum brunt of it.What is to be done?The pollution crisis needs a systemic solution. Lockdowns are no solutions, nor are the symbolic odd-even schemes or “red light on, engine off” placards at the traffic signals. We need to hit at the source of it — commodities that pollute and the classes that consume most of it. But how does one do that?Some of these solutions are low-hanging fruits. Energy efficiency in India is one of the lowest in the world, which means for every unit of consumption, a lot of energy is wasted. To give an example, air conditioners running in houses/offices with poor or no insulation would invariably mean higher consumption of electricity and more pollutants in the air. Government of India estimates (https://beeindia.gov.in/content/buildings) show that at least 30-40% of energy can be saved purely by retrofitting, insulating buildings and offices, steps which can be incentivised through policy.Some other solutions are more difficult but much needed. Delhi needs to consider a pollution tax . It can be levied at the source of energy usage — fuel and electricity — since that is the easiest to implement. Additionally yearly excise tax on cars, high parking charges as well as congestion charges can be implemented. A part of this tax needs to be spent on overhauling the public transport infrastructure of the city with dedicated bus lanes to ensure reliability, a much larger fleet of buses, cycle lanes (to ensure last mile connectivity) and pedestrian-safe pavements. Driving cars should become expensive but only after a better, cleaner, and, most importantly, reliable alternative has been provided.The problem with such a tax is that the burden will fall unduly on the poor since they will be paying the same price as the rich for a given commodity. To address this regressiveness, one could implement a “pollution tax and clean dividend” policy. The tax collected, after deducting the infrastructural spending, is distributed equally among all citizens of Delhi as a “clean dividend”. The poor will gain at the cost of the rich. Let’s say a pollution tax of 100 is collected of which the rich have contributed 80 since their overall consumption is much higher than the poor, who contribute 20. After spending, say 40 on infra, when the remaining 60 is distributed as a clean dividend equally, they get 30 each, which means a net gain of 10 for the poor. In reality, this net gain will be even higher since their proportion in the population is generally higher. This clean dividend can be in cash or kind. If implemented in kind, it could be in the form of access to commodities such as food through ration shops, electricity, health and transport up to a certain amount.We suggest the implementation of pollution tax to be staggered and only after the infrastructure is in place. This is for two reasons. The onset of a sudden high tax may not be acceptable to most people, as was the case in France with the “yellow vest” movement. However, if people receive benefits from Day One, including infrastructural development, and are then presented with a gradual tax, they will be more likely to buy into it. Delhi residents, especially the wealthy, need to be convinced that current and future inhabitants of the city, especially their children, will have a healthier life with the implementation of such a clean and just policy.Rohit Azad is an assistant professor of economics at Jawaharlal Nehru University. Shouvik Chakraborty is an assistant research professor at the Political Economy Research Institute, University of Massachusetts Amherst||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/delhis-air-crisis-who-pollutes-who-suffers-101640233210079.html
23-12-2021||India||Omicron: 'No vaccine, no entry’ campaign to kick off in Nashik from today||The district administration in Maharashtra's Nashik is implementing 'no vaccine, no entry' campaign starting Thursday under which people who are not vaccinated against the coronavirus disease (Covid-10) will not be allowed to enter commercial and public establishments, like malls, cinema halls, restaurants and government, public offices. The campaign is being implemented in a bid to increase the Covid-19 vaccination percentage in the district.According to the guidelines, anyone who seeks to enter these places should at least be administered with on dose of Covid-19 vaccine. The announcement for the same was first made on December 16, after a meeting of the District Disaster Management Authority (DDMA) in Nashik."The 'no vaccine-no entry' rule will be implemented in all government, semi-government and private offices, business and industrial establishments, hotels, restaurants, shopping malls, theaters, cinema halls, lawns, marriage halls, APMCs and all other public establishments and programmes from December 23," the administration stated in the official order.The campaign is also being launched in view of the rise in Omicron cases, the latest and three times more contagious mutation than its previous variants -- Delta, Delta Plus. "Although the danger posed by the Omicron variant of the virus is less, it spreads rapidly. Against this backdrop, the speed of vaccination will be increased in the district," said district guardian minister Chhagan Bhujbal in the meeting, according to an ANI report.The responsibility of implementing the 'no vaccine-no entry' rule is on the heads of the concerned establishments, according to the guidelines. Those who are found in violation of the rules, may face strict action towards them.Maharashtra has a total of 54 cases of Omicron, the second-highest after the national capital (57), according to the tally by the Union health ministry. It is followed by Telangana (24), Karnataka (19), Rajasthan (18), Kerala (15), and Gujarat (14). Jammu and Kashmir has reported three Omicron cases, while Odisha, Andhra Pradesh and Uttar Pradesh have two cases each. Total the country has over 200 cases of Omicron.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/omicron-no-vaccine-no-entry-campaign-to-kick-off-in-nashik-from-today-101640232793505.html
23-12-2021||India||DDA approves ownership rights to refugees who came from Pakistan after Partition||The Delhi Development Authority (DDA) is giving ownership rights of their properties to refugees who came from Pakistan during 1950 to 1960, according to a report by Hindustan Times' sister publication Livehindustan. According to the report, the land management authority has already issued a public notice for the same.There are more than 1,500 such families in Delhi who came from Pakistan during Partition who do not have property title, according to Livehindustan report. Such families can now claim ownership rights on their properties in the city. The work of giving ownership rights in the unauthorised colonies in Delhi is going on, it added.The ownership rights will be given in colonies that settled on the government land, Livehindustan also reported.According to a public notice issued by the DDA, the properties of those who had built residential houses on government land at that time will be regularised. In colonies where legal cases are underway will need a no-objection certificate from the respective department, according to the report.People seeking the ownership title of a property will need to pay a certain fee according to the circle rate. After this, they will be able to get construction rights as well on the basis of the approved map.Recently, more than 50 properties of the Parda bagh area in Dryaganj were given the benefit of ownership after the South Delhi Municipal Corporation (SDMC) passed a similar proposal in October.SDMC’s order was a result of a two-decade battle for ownership rights started by Pankaj Bhatnagar, president of the Parda Bagh resident welfare association. Since 1998, Bhatnagar has been running from pillar to post to rectify the what he said was an “anomaly” in the Master Plan of Delhi.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/dda-approves-ownership-rights-to-refugees-who-came-from-pakistan-after-partition-101640232254288.html
23-12-2021||India||Man who claims to be Sushant Singh Rajput's fan arrested for threatening Aaditya Thackeray||The cyber cell of the Mumbai crime branch has arrested a man on the charges of issuing threatening messages to Maharashtra minister Aaditya Thackeray, news agency ANI reported. The man, Jaisingh Rajput, claims to be a fan of late actor Sushant Singh Rajput. According to reports, Jaisingh called the minister on December 8 and as the minister did not receive the call, he left a message. The arrest was made from Bengaluru.Maharashtra minister Nawab Malik said the threat might be connected to the organisations that killed Narendra Dabholkar and Govind Pansare. “The manner in which Aaditya Thackeray received a threat letter, we suspect if it's connected to the organisations that murdered (Narendra) Dabholkar and (Govind) Pansare. I too have received such threats. We've written for an investigation into it. I think it is a serious matter. After losing power, some organisations are behaving in this manner. Home Department will probe it and find out who is behind it. They will be nabbed and punished,” the minister said to ANI.The CBI has been probing the death of the Bollywood actor who was found hanging from the ceiling fan of his residence in Bandra on June 14, 2020. There has been no headway in the case so far and the central agency, in the past, issued statements clarifying that the investigation is not over and the agency is probing the death case from all angles.The investigation will take some more time as the CBI last month approached the United States through a formal channel, seeking assistance in retrieving deleted data of the late actor's social media account. “We don’t want to leave any loose ends before we finalise the case. We want to know if there are any particular deleted chats or posts which could be useful in the case," an officer told HT.Apart from CBI, two other central agencies, ED and the NCB are probing the money laundering and the drugs angle pertaining to the case.In the initial investigation, the Mumbai Police ruled out any foul play in the actor's death. The medical board of AIIMS also said the actor died of suicide.In connection with the drug-related case, the special NDPS court has recently denied bail to Sushant Singh Rajput's flatmate Siddharth Pithani. The court said photographs and videos recovered by the NCB show that Pithani was passing contraband material to Sushant.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/man-who-claims-to-be-ssr-s-fan-arrested-for-threatening-aaditya-thackeray-101640230792245.html
23-12-2021||India||News updates from HT: Mayawati to hold crucial meeting on UP polls today, and all the latest news||Here are today’s top news, analysis, and opinion at 9am. Know all about the latest news and other news updates from Hindustan Times.Mayawati to hold crucial meeting on UP polls today, BSP strategy to be finalisedAs Uttar Pradesh assembly elections near, the political landscape in the state is heating up. On Thursday, Bahujan Samaj Party (BSP) chief Mayawati has called a crucial meeting at party headquarters. Read moreKMC elections: Key Trinamool meet today, mayor likely to be finalisedThe Trinamool Congress (TMC), which emerged victorious in the recently held Kolkata Municipal Corporation (KMC) elections, is likely to decide on Thursday who the next mayor of the state capital's civic body will be. Read moreWatch: 29-year-old reserve India bowler troubles Rahane, Saha and Co. with his vicious swing during India netsDeepak Chahar shared the video on Twitter, in which he can be seen generating vicious swing as India batters Wriddhiman Saha and Priyank Panchal can be seen struggling against the 29-year-old. Read moreKabir Khan on getting Deepika Padukone onboard 83: I would have gone to her even if she wasn't married to Ranveer SinghThe 36-year-old actor portrays the role of Kapil Dev in 83 while Deepika has been cast as the cricket legend’s wife, Romi Bhatia. 83 marks Ranveer and Deepika’s first movie together after their wedding in 2018. Read moreKunal Kemmu raises the bar at the gym on his leg dayKunal Kemmu loves being at the gym. The actor is an absolute fashionista and when not playing characters for the screen, Kunal is usually spotted in the gym engrossed in his workout routine. Read moreSAD's Majithia not allowed to leave India; party alleges ‘political vendetta'A lookout notice has been issued against Senior Akali Dal leader Bikram Singh Majithia. The Punjab police named Majithia in a drug trafficking case in the state on Monday. Watch||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/news-updates-from-ht-mayawati-to-hold-crucial-meeting-on-up-polls-today-and-all-the-latest-news-101640227186325.html
23-12-2021||India||Omicron scare from Delhi to Mumbai; curbs return ahead of Christmas, holiday season||Amid growing concerns over the Omicron variant of the coronavirus, said to be highly infectious and capable of undergoing frequent mutations, multiple states and Union territories across India have reimposed fresh restrictions in a bid to control the spread of the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) outbreak. While the central government has already issued specific instructions to states after noting the “initial signs of surge”, the states have also strengthened curbs in districts once again reporting high case positivity rates with measures such as bringing back the night curfew, strictly regulating large gatherings, and putting prohibitions on the numbers of guests who can attend marriage ceremonies and functions.The following are the set of restrictions imposed in several states/cities in view of the Omicron alert:MumbaiThe Mumbai Police has said that in the wake of the Omicron concerns, prohibitory orders under Section 144 of the Code of Criminal Procedure (CrPC) will be imposed in the city from December 16 to December 31, a period covering Christmas and New Year eve, banning large gatherings and parties common in this time of the year.Only people up to 50 per cent of the capacity at a venue will be allowed to attend any event; organisers of programmes should be fully vaccinated against the coronavirus.According to the order, people have to follow Covid-19 appropriate behaviour at all times. All public transport shall be used only by fully-vaccinated persons, and all persons travelling into Maharashtra will either have to be fully vaccinated or carry an RT-PCR test valid for 72 hours.DelhiThe Delhi Disaster Management Authority (DDMA) on Wednesday directed district magistrates (DMs) to ensure no Christmas and New Year gathering takes place in the national capital.However, restaurants and bars will continue to operate with up to 50 per cent of the seating capacity. Marriage-related gatherings are permitted with a maximum of 200 people in attendance.The DMs have also been directed to identify potential Covid-19 superspreader areas ahead of Christmas and New Year and tighten the enforcement machinery to ensure people follow social-distancing norms and wear masks.In these identified pockets, “concerted action” will be taken according to the prescribed protocol – which includes test, track and treatment, prompt and effective containment measures, and enforcement of Covid-appropriate behaviour.BengaluruBengaluru, like the rest of Karnataka, will see fresh restrictions on New Year 2022 celebrations. However, in a silver lining for partygoers, the Basavaraj Bommai-led state government has allowed fetes and festivities in clubs and restaurants but only with 50 per cent seating capacity. According to the orders, there cannot be any special event like disk jockey (DJ) nights and such, either. Moreover, full vaccination will be mandatory for everyone at the places of celebrations. The curbs will be in effect from December 30 to January 2, a period only covering the post-Christmas and New Year's celebrations.NoidaNoida and Lucknow are two cities in Uttar Pradesh where the Yogi Adityanath-led government has invoked Section 144 of the CrPC till December 31 keeping in mind the Omicron concerns and the upcoming Christmas and New Year's festivities.“Section 144 CrPC has been implemented in Gautam Buddh Nagar till December 31 keeping the law and order situation in mind,” the Gautam Buddh Nagar Police said in a circular issued earlier this week.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/omicron-scare-from-delhi-to-mumbai-curbs-return-ahead-of-christmas-holiday-season-101640226822218.html
23-12-2021||India||Mamata Banerjee unhappy over not getting a chance to speak at PM's meeting: Report||West Bengal chief minister Mamata Banerjee is unhappy for not been given a chance to speak at a virtual meeting with Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Wednesday. According to news agency PTI, the development has anguished the entire state administration.PM Modi took part in the second meeting of the national committee on ‘Azadi ka Amrit Mahotsav’, in which other chief ministers were also present. Banerjee expressed her displeasure for not getting a chance to speak at the virtual meeting.Hindustan Times’ sister publication Livehindustan quoted a state secretariat official to report that Banerjee’s name was not in the list of speakers.This is not the first time that Banerjee has accused the Centre of not giving her a chance to speak. A similar incident took place in May this year, when the Prime Minister held a meeting with chief ministers to review the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) situation and government machinery’s preparedness.At that time, Banerjee had said that she felt “insulted”. The chief minister had said that instead of sending an official, she herself came for the meeting to urge the central government for Covid-19 vaccines.In Wednesday’s meeting, PM Modi said that the pandemic has taught new lessons and shattered the existing structures which will lead to the emergence of a “new world order” in the post-Covid era, according to a government statement.Emphasising that this is an opportune time to set eyes on 2047 when the country will celebrate 100 years of Independence, he said the current generation will be at the helm of affairs then and the nation’s destiny will be in their hands.“Therefore, it is important to decide what we must inculcate in them now so that they will be able to make big contributions in the future towards the country,” the Prime Minister said. “We have always insisted upon and fought for our rights but there is a higher greatness in following one’s duties,” he added. It is only when people follow their duties religiously that they are able to ensure rights of others automatically, PM Modi said.At the meeting, culture ministry secretary Govind Mohan gave a presentation on the overview of activities of Azadi Ka Amrit Mahotsav, being held to mark the 75th anniversary of India’s Independence.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/mamata-banerjee-unhappy-over-not-getting-a-chance-to-speak-at-pm-s-meeting-101640225167011.html
23-12-2021||India||Farmers to meet Punjab CM Channi today; demand debt waiver, cancellation of FIRs||Farmers under the banner of the Kisan Mazdoor Sangharsh Committee, pressuring the Punjab government over several key demands, are set to meet the state's chief minister Charanjit Singh Channi on Thursday to keep their claims before the administration – which includes farm debt waiver, cancellation of FIRs lodged against farmers during the anti-farm law agitation and low compensation given for land acquired for highway projects.Also Read | Farmers continue sit-in at Ludhiana mini-secretariatFarmer unions, part of the Samyukt Kisan Morcha (SKM), have over the past few days been putting up demonstrations across multiple protest sites in Punjab, demanding a complete waiver of farm loans and compensation to the kin of those who died during the anti-farm laws stir. On Monday and Tuesday, they blocked railway tracks at different places in Ferozepur, Tarn Taran, Amritsar, and Hoshiarpur, affecting the movement of as many as 156 trains.According to Ferozepur division railway officials, 84 trains were cancelled, 47 short-terminated and 25 short-originated.Meanwhile, a group of farmers also staged a sit-in on Wednesday outside the office of the deputy commissioner (DC) in Ludhiana.DC Varinder Kumar Sharma, who was not allowed to move out for lunch by the protesting farmers, finally came out of his office in the evening under a security cover.In the wake of this agitation, Punjab chief minister Charanjit Singh Channi will be meeting the protesting farmers to discuss the demands placed before the government. Ahead of this all-important meet, members of as many as 32 farm unions met in Ludhiana on Saturday to finalise their agenda.What are the farmers demanding?“Farm debt waiver, cancellation of FIRs lodged against farmers during agitation, and low compensation given for land acquired for highway projects are major issues that we will take up,” said farm leaders Harinder Lakhowal, Prem Singh Bhangu, Hardev Singh Sandhu, Kirpa Singh, and Kiranjit Singh Sekhon.Also Read | Punjab polls: Farmer leader Gurnam Singh Charuni launches political partyBhangu added, “The state government had assured us that FIRs lodged against farmers during the stir in the state will be cancelled and the issue of cases lodged in Chandigarh will be taken up with the governor. Nothing has happened.”The government will be pressured to regularise contractual employees, who have been on protest across the state. Farmers said they also demand the suspension of the DSP who cane-charged protesting ETT Teachers. Lakhowal added that they will also demand compensation for land acquired for projects at current market rates. Farm leaders added that protests from toll plazas will not be lifted, till the hike in charges was not rolled back.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/farmers-to-meet-punjab-cm-channi-today-demand-debt-waiver-cancellation-of-firs-101640222555904.html
23-12-2021||India||PM Modi to hold Covid-19 review meeting today amid Omicron spread||Prime Minister Narendra Modi will chair a meeting on Thursday to review the prevailing Covid-19 situation in the country as cases of its new variant Omicron are rising.India has so far reported more than 200 cases of Omicron variant, with the national capital leading the tally. As of Wednesday, the city has reported 57 cases. It is followed by Maharashtra (54), Telangana (24), Karnataka (19), Rajasthan (18), Kerala (15), and Gujarat (14). Jammu and Kashmir has reported three Omicron cases, while Odisha, Andhra Pradesh and Uttar Pradesh have two cases each.Meanwhile, the overall covid-19 tally in the country stands at 34,758,481 including 478,325 deaths. The country's active caseload currently stands at 78,190, the lowest in 575 days.While the cases in some states are seeing an upward trend, the nationwide daily tally is hovering below 8,000-mark.On Tuesday, the Union health ministry alerted states and union territories about the latest mutation of the Covid-19 -- Omicron. Described as 'variant of concern' by the World Health Organisation (WHO), it is three times more transmissible than the Delta variant, according to the scientific research done so far.In the advisory, the Centre also asked states and union territories to step up scrutiny of Covid-19 infection trends and consider steps like night lockdowns. The Centre also suggested bans on large gatherings if more than 10% of all tests in a week turn positive or if the occupancy of hospital beds breaches 40% of capacity.The ministry further added that greater foresight, data analysis, dynamic decision making and strict and prompt containment action is required at the local and district level.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/pm-modi-to-hold-covid-19-review-meeting-today-amid-omicron-spread-101640221012951.html
23-12-2021||NA||Breaking News: Allahabad HC urges PM, EC to consider postponing UP polls amid Omicron spread||Welcome to hindustantimes.com live updates platform where you can find breaking news from India and across the world. Find fast updates about the latest news as it breaks.Follow all the updates here:Maharashtra to unveil new Covid-19 curbs on December 24 in view of OmicronThe Maharashtra government would unveil new Covid-19 related restrictions in the state on Friday (December 24) in view of the upcoming festive season, the Covid-19 surge and the Omicron variant. The decision was taken in the task force meeting headed by chief minister Uddhav Thackeray on Thursday night.The decision was taken as there would be huge gatherings in hotels and restaurants due to Christmas and New year celebrations.Allahabad HC urges PM Modi, ECI to consider postponing UP polls amid Omicron alertThe Allahabad high court has appealed to PM Narendra Modi and Election Commission of India (ECI) to consider postponing UP elections by one to two months in view of the rising cases of Omicron Covid-19 variant in India.2 new Omicron cases confirmed in Odisha, both patients are childrenBhubaneswar | 2 children of age 11 & 15 years, with a travel history to Nigeria, have tested #Omicron positive today; their close contacts have been traced & tested negative: Dr. Niranjan Mishra, Director of Public Health, Odisha(file photo) pic.twitter.com/IwHUP0WTlDOdisha reports two new Omicron cases, taking the state tally to four. The new detections have been confirmed in two children aged 11 and 15, with a travel history to Nigeria.FIR filed against unknown person in connection or Ludhiana blastAn FIR has been lodged against an unknown person in connection with the explosion that occurred at the Ludhiana court complex earlier in the day, ANI reported.Maharashtra CM to hold Covid review meet tonight as Omicron continues to increase in stateMaharashtra chief minister Uddhav Balasaheb Thackeray will hold a Covid-19 review meeting later at 10pm with the state task force as the state continues to report higher numbers of Omicron cases, an official statement from the CMO read.Gujarat detects 7 more Omicron cases, tally rises to 30Gujarat on Thursday confirmed seven more cases of Omicron variant, thereby taking the tally to 30. Of the total Omicron cases, as many as 25 are active, ANI reported.Maharashtra reports 23 more Omicron cases, state's tally reaches 88Maharashtra on Thursday reported 23 fresh Omicron cases, taking the state's tally to 88. Of these, 13 were found in Pune, five in Mumbai, two in Osmanabad and one each in Thane, Nagpur and Mira-Bhayander area.MP imposes night curfew from 11pm to 5am as Omicron spreadsMadhya Pradesh imposes night curfew from 11pm to 5am amid the spread of Omicron variant of Covid-19.Blast reported at pharma unit in MaharashtraA blast has been reported at a pharma unit in Maharashtra's Tarapur town, fire brigade is currently at spot.PM chairs Covid-19 review meeting as Omicron variant spreads alarmPrime Minister Narendra Modi chairs Covid-19 review meeting as Omicron variant spreads alarm across country.CJI Ramana expresses deep shock over Ludhiana court blast caseChief Justice of India (CJI) NV Ramana expressed “deep shock” at the Ludhiana district court complex blast incident earlier in the day, ANI reported citing an official statement. He also asked the CJ of Punjab and Haryana high court to enquire about the developments.Centre spent over ₹19 crore to procure Covid vaccines for free supply to states, UTs: Govt dataThe central government has spent ₹19,675 crore to procure Covid-19 vaccines free-of-cost to supply to states and Union territories (UTs), PTI reported citing government data. The new phase of the universalisation of Covid-19 vaccination drive was started in June this year. Under this, the Centre will obtain and supply (free-of-cost) 75% of the vaccines from the manufacturers, to the states and UTs.Conjoined twins get job in Punjab state power corp ltdSohna-Mohna help us look after the electrical appliances here. Punjab govt has hired them. Sohna got the job & Mohna helps alongside. They have work experience as well: Ravinder Kumar, substation Jr Engineer, PSPCL pic.twitter.com/XEfmUsb4zEConjoined twins, Sohna and Mohna, get a job in the Punjab State Power Corporation Limited (PSPCL), news agency ANI reported. "We're very glad about the job and have joined on December 20. We thank the Punjab govt and the Pingalwara institution, which schooled us, for the opportunity," they told ANI.Karnataka Assembly passes anti-conversion billKarnataka Assembly on Thursday passed the Protection of Right to Freedom of Religion Bill, 2021 (anti-conversion bill), ANI reported.Man nabbed at Delhi metro station after bullets found in luggageA 21-year-old man was nabbed by the CISF at Delhi's Khan Market metro station on Thursday after he was found carrying four bullets in his luggage, PTI reported citing officials.Sonia Gandhi to meet LS MPs from Punjab at her Delhi residence todayCongress interim president Sonia Gandhi will meet Lok Sabha MPs from Punjab at her residence in Delhi later today at 6.30pm, news agency ANI reported.Kerala reports five new Omicron casesKerala on Thursday reported five new Omicron cases, taking the state's tally to 29, state health minister Veene George said.Karnataka reports 12 new Omicron cases, tally rises to 31Karnataka on Thursday detected as many as12 fresh cases of Omicron Covid-19 variant, health minister Dr K Sudhakar announced on Twitter. With this, the southern state's Omicron tally has climbed to 31.DDMA allows religious places to stay open amid ban on gathering for New Year, ChristmasDDMA allows religious places to stay open amid ban on gatherings for New Year and Christmas. In an order, the DDMA said that social distancing and Covid-appropriate behaviour must be adhered to.Firhad Hakim to remain Kolkata mayorFirhad Hakim will continue in his role as a mayor of Kolkata, TMC spokesperson Riju Dutta announced on Twitter. Meanwhile, TMC MP Mala Roy has been named chairman of KMC, PTI reported.PM lays foundation stone of Banas Dairy Kashi Sankul and Biogas Plant in UPPrime Minister Narendra Modi on Thursday laid the foundation stone of Banas Dairy Kashi Sankul and Biogas Plant in Varanasi. He also launched dairy mark and digital portal.Punjab CM to visit Ludhiana after explosion hits district courtPunjab chief minister Charanjit Singh Channi says he will visit Ludhiana to take stock of situation after explosion in district court complex.Western disturbance to increase minimum temperature in North IndiaA fresh intensity of western disturbance and its induced cyclonic circulation is likely to influence northwest India from December 26 and central India from December 27, according to IMD forecast. The cyclonic circulation will increase the minimum temperature in the northwest, east and central India.Explosion inside Ludhiana district court complex; 2 dead, 5 injuredAt least two people were dead in an explosion reported from a district court complex of Ludhiana, located near the police commissionerate office, while five were injured. The explosion took place in the washroom on the second floor at around 12.22pm.Delhi CM holds high-level meeting as Omicron cases riseDelhi chief minister Arvind Kejriwal holds a high-level meeting as Delhi reports 64 Omicron cases (as per Ministry of Health and Family Welfare) and to strengthen home isolation managment for Covid-19 patients.Movement of 280 trains affected in Firozpur division: CPROIn the last 24 hours, the movement of more than 280 trains has been affected due to protest demonstration by farmers in the Firozpur Division of the Northern Railway. While more than 400 trains have been affected in the last four days of protest: CPRO, Northern RailwayPM Modi to chair Covid-19 review meeting at 6:30pm todayPrime Minister Narendra Modi to chair the Covid-19 review meeting at 6:30 pm today.Over 60% of eligible population in India is fully vaccinated now"Accomplishing more new feats! Congratulations India. Aided by public participation & dedicated efforts of our health workers,over 60% of eligible population fully vaccinated now," tweets Union Health Minstry.Omicron scare from Delhi to Mumbai: Curbs put in place by statesAmid growing concerns over the Omicron variant of the coronavirus, said to be highly infectious and capable of undergoing frequent mutations, multiple states and Union territories across India have reimposed fresh restrictions in a bid to control the spread of the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) outbreak. Read MoreMamata Banerjee ‘unhappy’ over not getting a chance to speak at PM's meetingWest Bengal chief minister Mamata Banerjee is unhappy for not been given a chance to speak at a virtual meeting with Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Wednesday. According to news agency PTI, the development has anguished the entire state administration. Read MoreHong Kong university dismantles Tiananmen statueHong Kong's oldest university launched an overnight operation Thursday to dismantle a statue commemorating those killed in Beijing's Tiananmen Square in the latest blow to academic freedoms as China cracks down.PM Modi to launch projects worth over ₹2,000 crore in Varanasi todayPrime Minister Narendra Modi will visit Varanasi on Thursday and launch multiple projects and schemes worth over ₹2,095 crore, his office said on Wednesday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/breaking-news-live-december-23-2021-101640220122761.html
23-12-2021||India||PM Modi in Varanasi today: Full list of projects to be launched by him||Prime Minister Narendra Modi will visit Varanasi in Uttar Pradesh again on Thursday to launch multiple development initiatives and schemes worth ₹2,095 crore. The Prime Minister has visited his Lok Sabha constituency multiple times in recent days, ahead of the assembly elections in the state.His last visit to Varanasi was on December 13, when PM Modi inaugurated the Kashi Vishwanath Corridor project.The Election Commission is expected to announce the schedule of UP assembly election in the first week of January. The Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP), under the leadership of chief minister Yogi Adityanath, is aiming to come back to power in the state for a second term and has deployed senior leaders to campaign in the state.Here’s a look at the projects to be launched by PM Modi in Varanasi today:• Among the initiatives to be launched by PM Modi today is laying of the foundation stone for "Banas Dairy Sankul" at the Uttar Pradesh State Industrial Development Authority food park, in Karkhiyaon area.• The Prime Minister will also digitally transfer a bonus of about ₹35 crore to the bank accounts of more than 1.7 lakh milk producers associated with the Banas Dairy.• PM will lay the foundation stone for a biogas-based electricity generation plant for a Milk Producers' Cooperative Union plant in Varanasi Ramnagar. It will be a key step towards making the plant energy self-sufficient, the PMO said.• A logo developed by the Bureau of Indian Standards (BIS) and dedicated to the Conformity Assessment Scheme of milk products will also be launched on the occasion.• Further, the Prime Minister will virtually distribute the rural residential rights record, "Gharauni", under the Swamitva scheme of the Union Ministry of Panchayati Raj to over 20 lakh residents of Uttar Pradesh.• Projects in the education sector that will be inaugurated by the Prime Minister include the Union education ministry's Inter University Centre for Teachers Education, built at a cost of around ₹107 crore, and a teachers' education centre at the Central Institute of Higher Tibetan Studies, built at a cost of over ₹7 crore.• In the health sector, a project comprising a doctors' hostel, a nurses' hostel and a shelter home, amounting to ₹130 crore, at the Mahamana Pandit Madan Mohan Malviya Cancer Centre will be inaugurated by the Prime Minister.• He will also inaugurate a 50-bed Integrated Ayush Hospital at Bhadrasi and lay the foundation stone of the ₹49 crore Government Homeopathic Medical College in Pindra tehsil.• The projects for which PM Modi will lay the foundation stone also include widening of road between Prayagraj and Bhadohi from four to six lanes.• To give a fillip to the tourism potential of the holy city, PM Modi will inaugurate the first phase of the tourism development project related to the Shri Guru Ravidas Ji Temple, Seer Govardhan, Varanasi.• Other projects to be inaugurated by the prime minister include a speed breeding facility at the International Rice Research Institute, the South Asia Regional Centre, Varanasi, a regional reference standards laboratory in Payakpur village and an advocate building in Pindra tehsil.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/pm-modi-in-varanasi-today-full-list-of-projects-to-be-launched-by-him-101640217295784.html
23-12-2021||India||Opposition leaders meet Naidu after Parliament ends||After a bitter fight with the ruling dispensation during the winter session of Parliament, leaders belonging to opposition parties on Wednesday gathered at Rajya Sabha chairman Venkaiah Naidu’s chamber, people familiar with the matter said. Naidu set the mood for friendly talks when he quipped how Dravida Munnetra Kazagham’s Tiruchi Siva, who usually wears a mundu (a garment worn around the waist by south Indians) and a shirt, was “looking smart in the suit”.Some other leaders took the opportunity to suggest Trinamool Congress’s vocal floor leader Derek O’ Brien be made chairman of a House panel. But a witty Opposition leader said that O’Brien refused to agree with the suggestion as he believes that he may lose opportunities to disrupt the Upper House, the people cited above said without naming the leader. The leaders at the chamber held some serious discussions, too. A leader pointed out that the government had taken no action on the recommendations of a panel set up by Naidu on Online Child Pornography, the people cited above said. To this, leader of Rajya Sabha, Piyush Goyal, quickly assured that he would follow up on the matter with the ministries of child and women development and information technology. The leaders also spent time discussing the lack of attendance in House panel meetings. A witty Congress leader told Naidu that the latter should give the Opposition “adequate notice of seven ministers meeting him to suspend some of us for the budget session”, referring to the incidents that led to suspension of 12 MPs in the winter session.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/opposition-leaders-meet-naidu-after-parliament-ends-101640200150665.html
23-12-2021||India||32 women commandos ready to join CRPF, protect Z+ personalities||The Central Reserve Police Force (CRPF), which also handles VIP security, will soon have 32 women commandos ready to be deployed in the security detail of some leaders. The move means that Congress president Sonia Gandhi, party general secretary Priyanka Gandhi Vadra and former prime minister Manmohan Singh’s wife Gursharan Kaur, will have women deployed as personal security officers in their security detail.“In 2019, we started a VIP security wing and initially it had only men. However, we started training women to be part of the team and now the women will be posted with the VIPs by the second week of January,’’ said a spokesperson of the paramilitary force which took over VIP protection responsibilities in 2019, when a change in law                limited the Special Protection Group or SPG to only providing security for the Prime Minister or for former prime ministers and their families  for a maximum of five years. The spokesperson confirmed that the women personnel would be attached to the three women but  “on a need basis’’ but added that will be deployed with other Z+ category protectees.  “The Congress president and Ms Gandhi Vadra had not asked for women personnel because they believe in the professionalism of the force.’’ said the party’s chief spokesperson Randeep Surjewala. When the SPG cover was removed two years ago,  the Congress objected to what it saw as petty politics. The SPF cover did have women officers.When a VIP is travelling, it’s the state government which is responsible for their security but the immediate security to their person is provided by CRPF. Each VIP protectee has five to seven guards and so this election season may see the inclusion of women in this detail.These commandos, when deployed for house protection, will frisk female visitors and will be part of the overall security detail of the VIP’s house during tours. The women commandos, like their male counterparts,   will carry arms, ballistic protection and other gadgets as required on the job.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/32-women-commandos-ready-to-join-crpf-protect-z-personalities-101640200146987.html
23-12-2021||India||Anti-conversion bill to be discussed today, says Karnataka assembly speaker||Karnataka assembly speaker Vishweshwara Hegde Kageri on Wednesday said the discussions on the controversial anti-conversion bill will be held on Thursday morning, following requests by the ruling Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) and the principal opposition, Congress.The contentious “Karnataka Protection of Right to Freedom of Religion Act, 2021” was scheduled for discussions on Wednesday after it was tabled amid opposition from the Congress a day before in the lower house in the ongoing winter session in Belagavi, about 505 kms from Bengaluru.Congress insisted that there needed to be more discussions on problems of Northern Karnataka, which has districts that are among the aridest and backward in the country, and not prioritise the anti-conversion bill.“Extend the session for a few more days,” Siddaramaiah, the leader of the opposition said, reasoning that the legislature was being held in Belagavi after almost 2.5 years.The BJP continued to insist on a discussion on the bill, which is an extension of its plans to introduce laws in line with its core ideology. The proposal of introducing such a law in September had triggered protests and attacks against members of the Christian community, who the right-wing believes, is converting people by force or allurement.“We don’t know how you will manage but please allow for the bill to be passed by tomorrow (Thursday) noon as we have to send it to the council as well,” JC Madhuswamy, Karnataka’s law, parliamentary and minor irrigation said.The Congress and Janata Dal (Secular) or JD(S) have formally opposed the bill with the former staging a walkout on Tuesday afternoon when the bill was tabled in the assembly.Congress has also sought that the session is extended for a few more days since the discussions have not yet been complete, especially concerning the development of the northern districts of Karnataka.Congress has also asked that the joint and budget session be extended to have more comprehensive debates.“Decision on extending the duration of the legislature session, including the joint session and budget session in the coming days would be taken after due discussion. It would provide more time for meaningful debates in the house,” Basavaraj Bommai, the chief minister of Karnataka said.“Opposition parties should naturally get more time and importance. A system of allotting time to a political party according to its strength in the house is in practice in the Lok Sabha. The problem could be resolved if the same system is adopted here,” he added.He added that along with the extension of the duration of the session, a close look is also needed to examine the effectiveness of the debates witnessed in the house.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/anticonversion-bill-to-be-discussed-today-says-karnataka-assembly-speaker-101640200098354.html
23-12-2021||India||Both Covid-19 doses must for access to public places from Jan 1: Haryana govt||Only fully vaccinated adults will be allowed access to public spaces like shopping malls, restaurants and cinema halls in Haryana from January 1, 2022, state’s health and home minister Anil Vij said on Wednesday, adding the vaccine is the biggest protection from Covid-19, including its various variants.Replying to a question in the ongoing winter session of the Haryana Assembly, Vij said, “From January 1, 2022, any eligible person who has not taken both doses of Covid vaccine will not be permitted in malls, hotels, restaurants, marriage palaces, cinema halls, offices, banks or any such places that attracts crowds.”An order was issued in this regard by additional chief secretary, health, government of Haryana, Rajeev Arora. According to the order, deputy commissioners (DCs) of all 22 districts in the state have been asked to direct head of offices or in-charge to constitute teams to ensure that only fully vaccinated people are allowed access to public places. The DCs have also been asked to constitute multi-disciplinary teams to check the implementation of the restrictions.The move is aimed at pushing reluctant or indifferent individuals to get the second shot of Covid-19 vaccine. Till Wednesday, Haryana has vaccinated around 93% of its eligible population with at least one dose of the Covid-19 vaccine while little over 60% have been fully vaccinated. Neighbouring Delhi, Himachal Pradesh, Chandigarh, Jammu and Kashmir and Uttarakhand have a better second dose coverage than Haryana.The order said that a large number of beneficiaries were due and overdue for long for inoculation of second dose of coronavirus vaccine. “New variants of coronavirus are emerging frequently and recently Omicron cases have shown an upward trend. Looking into the current scenario, steps need to be taken for increasing coverage of vaccination to mitigate spread of coronavirus,” the order said.As per the order issued on Wednesday, only fully vaccinated persons will be allowed entry in public places like private and public sector banks, religious places, petrol and CNG stations, LPG cylinder collection centres, sugar mills, milk booths, ration shops restaurants, bars, hotels, grain and vegetable markets, departmental stores, liquor and wine shops, shopping malls and complexes, cinema halls, Haats, local market and places of public gathering.To travel from bus stands and railways stations, people will have to get both doses of Covid-19 vaccine, the order said. Besides, parks, yogshalas, gym and fitness centres have also been directed to allow only fully vaccinated individuals.ACS, health, Rajeev Arora said those allowing unvaccinated persons access in shops, malls cinemas etc. would be booked under the provisions of the Disaster Management Act. A separate order by the State Disaster Management Authority will be issued to this effect.The state government has also made vaccination mandatory for above 18 students of colleges, polytechnics. Truck and auto-rickshaw unions will allow only fully vaccinated passengers.No individual including government servants will be allowed to visit government offices without being fully vaccinated. The civil surgeons have also been directed to depute vaccination teams where and whenever there is a demand by office in charge for on-the-spot vaccination or for regular vaccination camps at places of gathering, the order added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/both-doses-of-covid-vaccine-must-for-access-to-public-places-from-january-1-haryana-govt-101640200096756.html
23-12-2021||India||Lookout notice against Akali Dal leader Majithia in drugs case||The Union home ministry on Wednesday issued a lookout circular (LOC) against Shiromani Akali Dal MLA and former Punjab minister Bikram Singh Majithia a day after he was booked in a drugs case by the Punjab Police .The notice, which is issued to prevent and monitor the entry and exit of persons who may be wanted by different law enforcement agencies, was issued by the home ministry’s Bureau of Immigration on the request of the state police, which is trying to arrest the 46-year-old MLA, who was booked under the Narcotic Drugs and Psychotropic Substances (NDPS) Act following a report submitted by a Harpreet Singh Sidhu, an additional director general of police and the chief of a special task force (STF) in 2018. The STF was formed by the Congress government in 2017 to look into drug cases.The copy of the notice has been sent to the additional director general of police (ADGP), counter intelligence. “The lookout circular shall remain in force until and unless a deletion request is received by the Bureau of Immigration from the originator itself,” the notice, a copy of which HT has seen, said.A lookout circular is a letter used by authorities to check if a travelling person is wanted by the police. If immigration officers of a country have a LOC, then the offender can be nabbed at the airport.If the immigration officers of a country have LOC against any offender then the person can be nabbed at the airport.A Special Investigating Team (SIT) constituted by Punjab DGP to look into the case raided various places in Chandigarh, Himachal and the national capital to arrest the former minister. The team comprises assistant inspector general Balraj Singh, deputy superintendent of police Kulwant Singh and DSP Rajesh Kumar.According to a 49-page FIR registered at the State Crime Police Station in Mohali, Majithia has been booked for cognisable offences under Sections 25 (punishment for allowing premises etc. to be used for commission of an offence), 27(A) ( financing activities indulging in production, manufacture, possession, sale, purchase, transportation, use or consumption, import and export or deal in any activities pertaining to narcotic drugs) and 29 (party to a criminal conspiracy to commit an offence) of the NDPS Act. These sections have the provision of imprisonment up to 10 years along with a fine as decided by the court.HT has seen a copy of the FIR.“According to the findings of the STF report, prima facie there is sufficient evidence to further investigate the role of Majithia as regards the allegations made in application under scrutiny,” the FIR said. The STF chief’s report was prepared after the analysis of an investigation done by the Enforcement Directorate (ED) in the Jagdish Bhola drug case -- a drug network involving Arjuna award-winning wrestlerand dismissed deputy superintendent of police Jagdish Bhola that was busted by the Punjab Police in 2013.The drug menace and efforts for its eradication have always remained at the centre of the political discourse in Punjab for the past one decade. Putting the big fish behind bars has been a major promise of the Congress government to voters.In 2018, the STF chief was given the task of analysing the former Akali minister’s role on the directions of Punjab & Haryana high court. His report, based on the statements of drug case accused Jagjit Singh Chahal and Maninder Singh Bittu Aulakh to the ED, are part of the FIR. On February 1, 2018, the STF had submitted its status report in the Punjab & Haryana high court, which later sought comments from the Punjab DGP and the home secretary. Since then, it was lying in a sealed cover in the court.The FIR also mentioned the legal opinion of Punjab’s advocate general DS Patwalia, who strongly pushed for action on the STF chief’s report. “In my considered opinion which has been formed after having gone through the proceedings of the court, there is no impediment/embargo for the STF or any state agency to act upon the report submitted in the court. In fact, the court has made it categorically clear that law enforcement agencies must act upon the said reports in accordance with the law,” he said, according to the FIR.Patwalia’s opinion is different from that of his predecessor, who advised against acting on the report without the consent of the high court.Majithia is an influential member of the SAD, the brother of former Union minister Harsimrat Kaur Badal, and held revenue, renewal energy and information and public relations portfolios in the Punjab government.The process to register the case was initiated after DGP Sidharth Chattopadhyaya wrote to the director, Bureau of Investigation (BoI), on December 20, two days after taking charge as the officiating DGP of Punjab.The FIR has been registered on the complaint of the station house officer (SHO), state crime police station, inspector Kailash Bahadur.A special investigation team (SIT) has been constituted to investigate the case.The move led to a political backlash from SAD, which accused that the ruling Congress of trying to settle political scores ahead of assembly elections scheduled for early next year.“The Congress government changed two DGPs and three Bureau of Investigation (BOI) Directors to implement its vendetta. Eventually, it was a DGP who was not even eligible for empanelment as a regular DGP who was given charge to falsely book Majithia as a quid-pro-quo. The party will expose this false case both in the courts as well as publicly,” SAD chief Sukhbir Badal said in Sultanpur Lodhi of Kapurthala“God’s justice can be delayed but not denied. We did struggle to give justice to those who ruined Punjab’s youth for years. At last, Waheguru ji has heard prayer of Punjab. Only God has the power to do justice, we have only become means,” state home minister Sukhjinder Randhawa tweeted, using the hashtag #majithiainprisonsoon.
23-12-2021||India||12 Rajya Sabha MPs suspended to manufacture majority: Opposition||With both houses of Parliament being adjourned sine die a day before schedule, the Congress and Trinamool Congress (TMC), two opposition powerhouses, on Wednesday alleged that the government had suspended 12 MPs to “manufacture” a majority in the House for quick passage of legislations.Both parties refused to take responsibility for the logjam in Parliament.As proceedings in the Rajya Sabha, which witnessed maximum disruptions over the suspensions of opposition lawmakers, were concluded for the season, the Congress, for the first time, revealed that it was ready to read a statement to express regret over the behaviour of the suspended MPs in the last session and end the logjam.“We came prepared to raise issues such as unemployment, inflation and Chinese aggression. But the government was not eager to discuss any issue. We were 120 MPs, they were 118. They wanted to manufacture a majority and the suspension was part of the government’s plan,” leader of opposition Mallikarjun Kharge told reporters here.“It’s wrong to say that Opposition parties did not run the house. As soon as we said something, they would adjourn the House. The chairman adjourned Rajya Sabha due to government pressure,” he added.Speaking on the row over the suspension of the MPs, Kharge said: “I said that whatever happened, it was done. On the same day (November 29, when the MPs were suspended) I was ready to read a statement to express regret on behalf of everyone. Why should we increase the problem? …despite our best efforts, they (the government) did not listen to us.”HT on December 18 reported how the Congress had prepared a draft statement, containing the phrase “regrettable incidents”, to be read out by Kharge in the House.Speaking on similar lines, Congress leader Jairam Ramesh said: “I personally met the Chairman, leader of the house Piyush Goyal, and Parliamentary affairs minister Pralhad Joshi. Kharge told Goyal on the evening of November 29 and on the morning of November 30 that if you want, I will stand up as LOP and say that what happened in the monsoon session is a matter of regret…”Congress’ Lok Sabha floor leader Adhir Ranjan Chowdhury alleged that the Opposition was not allowed to speak on the Lakhimpur Kheri violence among other issues. “As soon as they heard L of Lakhimpur, our microphone would be turned off,” he said, accusing the government of trying to be “Bahubali of bahumat”.Chowdhury emphasised that the Opposition came to Parliament with a clear intent to allow the house to run and discuss issues such as the Lakhimpur Kheri violence and demand the resignation of junior minister for home affairs Ajay Kumar Mishra, whose son has been accused of running over farmers. Eight people, including four farmers, were killed in the October incident.TMC’s Rajya Sabha leader Derek O’Brien, who was suspended on Tuesday for hurling a rule book at the chair pointed how the Opposition’s planned protest lasted the entire season.“While we maintained distance with the Congress, we coordinated through CPIM, DMK and Shiv Sena,” he said.O’Brien was referring to the growing distance between the Congress and TMC, especially after the latter poached several lawmakers and senior leaders from the former in the past few months.The TMC leader said the winter session set “a very good example of Opposition fighting for democracy against the BJP”.
23-12-2021||India||Kerala high court grants ₹1.5L to girl accused of theft||The Kerala High Court on Wednesday ordered the state to pay a compensation of ₹1.5 lakh to a minor girl and her father who were accused by a woman police officer of stealing her mobile phone and were questioned in public.Single bench of Justice Devan Ramachandran also imposed ₹25,000 as the cost of the legal expenses and directed the government to take disciplinary action against the officer. The petitioners, an 8-year-old girl and father, had moved the court two months ago seeking compensation of ₹50 lakh from the government for humiliating them in public in Attingal, Thiruvananthapuram on August 27. According to the petition, they were watching movement of cargo headed to Vikram Sarabhai Research Centre on that day. The pink police was part of the police deployment to control the public. When a woman officer misplaced her mobile phone, she accused the father-daughter duo, who were standing near the police vehicle, of stealing it. Both were questioned in public by the officer and the girl was frisked, the petition added. According to the petition, the officer’s phone was found in the vehicle a few minutes later and the police team left the scene immediately without tendering an apology to the girl. A video clip of the incident surfaced on social media after which the police officer was transferred and asked to undergo behavioral training. Though the police officer tendered an apology, the father-daughter refused to accept. “We cannot let our daughters grow up in anger; immediate remedial steps should be taken. No one can dispute that her Fundamental Right under Article 21 to lead a dignified life,” the judge observed while delivering the verdict. The ruling comes as a setback to the state government which opposed the father-daughter plea and insisted that there was no need to pay compensation. The court also recorded that it expected the state to rise in defence of the petitioner since she was “its daughter” as well. It expressed disappointment at the refusal of the state government to acknowledge the trauma she went through. The court also said disciplinary action should be taken against the officer. Earlier, while hearing the petition, the court asked the state government what it proposes to do to assuage feelings of an 8-year-old girl and her father so as to ensure her faith in humanity and police.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/kerala-high-court-grants-1-5l-to-girl-accused-of-theft-101640200089584.html
23-12-2021||India||3.0 magnitude earthquakes recorded in chikkaballpura||At least two earthquakes of magnitudes 2.9 and 3.0 hit Chikkaballpura district, about 60 kms from Bengaluru, on Wednesday morning, according to the Karnataka State Disaster Management Authority (KSDMA).The first of two earthquakes recorded was at 7.10 am on Wednesday, with the epicentre around 1.4 kms from Mandikal Grama Panchayat limits of Chikkaballapura taluka at a depth of 11 kms.The second was recorded at 7.14 am, 1.23 kms east of Bhogaparthi village in Adagallu Grama Panchayati in the same taluka at a depth of 23 kms, the KSDMA said in a statement.“As per the Seismic Intensity map of the said Earthquakes from the Epicentre, the intensities observed are low and the tremors might be felt up to a maximum radial distance of 10-15 kms. These types of earthquakes do not create any harm to the local community, although there may be slight shaking observed locally. The Community need not panic as the intensity observed is low and not destructive,” the KSDMA said in a statement on Wednesday.The earthquakes come a day after Bengaluru recorded 3.3 on the Richters scale on Tuesday. “Earthquake of Magnitude: 3.3, Occurred on 22-12-2021, 07:14:32 IST, Lat: 13.55 and Long: 77.76, Depth: 23 Km, Location: 66km NNE of Bengaluru, Karnataka,” the National Centre for Seismology said in a post on Twitter on Tuesday. Two months ago, a series of quakes were recorded in the northern part of the state.Earthquakes were recorded in Kalaburagi, Bidar, Vijayapura and other places of around four magnitudes on the Richters scale, but the tremors were felt as far as 50-60 kms away.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/30-magnitude-earthquakes-recorded-in-chikkaballpura-101640200088253.html
23-12-2021||India||Differently abled man in Kerala overcomes hurdles to help needy during Covid||A differently-abled man is making headlines in Kerala for his heroic kindness, providing door-to-door service and not letting his physical disability come in way of helping people during the tough Covid-19 pandemic times. Polio-stricken, once Salim Kumar (38) gets into his specially-modified car with the help of two persons, he swifts away to reach the needy. Since 2019, Salim is the most sought after person in Ranni town of Pathanamthitta district, where he has helped more than 2,000 Covid patients reach the hospital in the past two years. At the start of the Covid-19 outbreak when people dreaded to come out, Salim also ensured proper burial to many in his hometown. Even government agencies in the district, at times, rely heavily on him. “Crippled below the waist, I need help from others to wear the PPE kits. For me, a person’s life is important, and at times I have to deal with them without PPE kits. If you have the will you, don’t have to worry. I didn’t test positive for Covid until now,” Salim said on Wednesday, adding that setbacks in personal life and rigours of daily grind turned him to social service. “I witnessed terrific scenes in last two years, and they steeled my resolve further. In the initial days, I came across a Covid-infected family that was without food for three days. At times, I arranged food and medicines also to the needy,” he said. Talking about his struggle, Salim said that he moves around in a wheelchair, and after his wife separated from him four years ago, leaving two minor children behind, he thought of ending life several times. “I studied till class 10 and then ventured into many fields. First, I opened a shop and later ran a music sound system shop, but all flopped, and debt mounted. But once I took a deep dive into social service, I forget about all sorrows,” he said. He said he initially formed a Whatsapp group of local youngsters called ‘Athikayam Brothers’ (Athikayam is a remote village in Pathanamthitta) and started co-ordinating voluntary works. Soon, help poured in from different quarters. “I never ask for money. But some people who can afford to give me fuel charges. Many good samaritans also help me financially,” said the 38-year-old. “At one point in time, I used to get 20 calls a day. I started living in my vehicle since I need assistance to get into my vehicle, which wasted time. Even post-midnight, I took patients to the hospital and saved many lives,” he said, adding that once he drove more than 250 kms to the Kerala-Tamil Nadu border in Walayar to pick two stranded Covid? patients. Salim was felicitated by the Asianet News channel on Tuesday in Kochi and the main guest at the function, M A Yousef Ali, chairman of retail giant Lulu Group, promised him a house and his dream of a modified ambulance. “I feel small before you. I salute your grit and passion,” Ali said after felicitating him. Actor Mamooty, who was present, also showered praises on Salim. “Owning a home and an ambulance have always been my dreams. Since they will be full filled, I will devote more time for the needy. I will also work for the differently-abled,” he said. 
23-12-2021||India||Rafale deal: India imposes penalty for delay in offsets duty||The defence ministry has imposed a penalty of up to a million euros on European weapons maker MBDA for delay in meeting its offset obligations under the ₹59,000 crore Rafale deal with France for 36 fighter jets made by Dassault Aviation, media reports said on Wednesday.The defence ministry has collected the fine, from MBDA, linked to missile maker’s offset commitments during September 2019-2020, news agency PTI reported citing unnamed people , adding that the European firm lodged its protest while coughing up the penalty.HT reached out to the defence ministry and MBDA but neither confirmed or commented on the matter.India’s offset policy stipulates that in all capital purchases above ₹300 crore, the foreign vendor has to invest at least 30% of the value of the purchase in the country to boost indigenous capabilities. In the case of the 2016 Rafale deal, this was 50%.The MBDA weapons on the Indian Rafales are the Meteor beyond visual range air-to-air missiles, MICA multi-mission air-to-air missiles and Scalp deep-strike cruise missiles.In a report tabled in Parliament in September 2020, the Comptroller and Auditor General (CAG) had made critical observations after a scrutiny of the status of a raft of offset contracts — including the September 2016 Rafale deal — signed between 2005 and 2018.The country’s top auditor said that Dassault Aviation and MBDA had not confirmed the transfer of technology (ToT) to the Defence Research and Development Organisation (DRDO), an integral part of the contract.The induction of Rafale jets is expected to be completed by February 2022, with 32 of the 36 ordered already delivered to the Indian Air Force.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/rafale-deal-india-imposes-penalty-for-delay-in-offsets-duty-101640200033699.html
23-12-2021||India||Furnish vaccine certificate to get salaries, Punjab govt employees told||Chandigarh: Punjab government employees will not get salary if they fail to furnish their Covid-19 vaccination certificate details, the state government said on Wednesday. An order was issued by the state’s finance department in this regard to administrative secretaries, divisional commissioners and deputy commissioners on Wednesday, asking them to inform the employees that they should register their vaccination certification number for both jabs with its web-based human resource portal.The finance department, which made the provision for entering the vaccination certificate number in the Integrated Human Resource Management System (iHRMS), also asked the departments to link the vaccination particulars with the salary module. “If any employee has got one dose administered, then they should register the number of that certificate. In vaccination certificate details are not furnished, the employee’s salary with not be released,” read the order, which is likely to come into effect from January 1, 2022. The government order comes amid fresh concerns caused by the Omicron variant of SARS-CoV-2 virus that causes Covid-19 and the Centre issuing an advisory to states and Union territories to stay on alert and increase scrutiny and vaccination. Meanwhile, Sukhchain Singh Khehra, president of Punjab Civil Secretariat Employees’ Association, said the government should not impose such orders in a hurried manner. “The employees are fully aware of the Covid threat and almost 80% to 90% have got themselves vaccinated. They must be given time to register their vaccination particular on the portal. If salaries are cut or withheld, we will protest,” Khehra said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/furnish-vaccine-certificate-to-get-salaries-punjab-govt-employees-told-101640200032199.html
23-12-2021||India||National Oxygen Stewardship Programme: Centre to train health care workers to rationally utilise medical oxygen||The Union government on Wednesday launched an initiative to train health care workers in rational utilisation of medical oxygen to prevent wastage as part of its preparedness for any possible surge in Covid-19 cases. As part of the National Oxygen Stewardship Programme, at least one oxygen steward will be identified and trained in each district across the country, the Union health ministry said in a statement on Wednesday. “These trained professionals would be responsible for leading the training on oxygen therapy and management in their respective districts and also support audit of oxygen delivery and preparedness for a surge scenario,” said the statement. During the peak of the second Covid-19 wave, Delhi, for example, witnessed a major medical oxygen crisis. At its peak, Delhi recorded 28,300 Covid-19 cases in a day on April 20, and a positivity rate exceeding 36% on April 22. The government on July 20 informed Parliament that there was an unprecedented surge in demand for medical oxygen and it peaked at nearly 9,000 MT compared to 3,095 MT in the first wave. “Request for data on the subject was emailed to all states and UTs including the last email sent on November 29, 2021. In response, only two states (Punjab and Arunachal Pradesh) have responded,” Union health minister Mansukh Mandaviya informed the Lok Sabha on December 3. He was responding to a question on whether the government had sought a report or data from states and Union territories regarding deaths of Covid-19 patients due to oxygen shortage in various hospitals across the country during the second wave. “The initiative aims to empower all health care workers engaged in oxygen management and administration with the essential knowledge and skills to ensure rational utilisation and avoid any wastage of medical oxygen, especially in resource constraint settings...,” the health ministry said. The government has sanctioned at least 1,500 Pressure Swing Adsorption (PSA) oxygen generation plants, of which 1,463 have been commissioned, including 1,225 that have been installed and commissioned under PM CARES Fund in every district of the country. All states and Union territories have been asked to install PSA plants in public health facilities and to facilitate installation of such plants in private facilities as well. “Oxygen is life saving and critically important in the treatment of several illnesses, not just Covid-19. The country witnessed an increased oxygen demand during the pandemic. Hence, the rational use of oxygen has become mandatory and need of the hour,” said Bharati Pravin Pawar, minister of state for health and family welfare, during the launch of National Oxygen Stewardship Programme at All India Institute of Medical Sciences (AIIMS) in New Delhi. Health officials, meanwhile, said the government is making all efforts to ensure there is optimal utilisation of resources at hand. “Resource constraint is faced by all countries but it is important that the available resources are used prudently; the focus of oxygen steward initiative is on ensuring efficiency in oxygen administration,” said VK Paul, member (health), Niti Aayog. The Centre has also set up OxyCare, a dashboard that disseminates information on the available oxygen stock for its better distribution. “The Covid-19 pandemic not only accelerated the demand for medical oxygen but also the need for its timely delivery; while the Union government has supported the states in setting up and strengthening oxygen production and delivery mechanisms, variable gaps were observed in the training of professionals involved in the administration of oxygen. This workshop aims to repurpose, re-orient and upskill the existing manpower in order to make sure that any untoward incident arising due to the pandemic gets managed professionally without any undue stress on the systems,” said Rajesh Bhushan, health secretary, Union government. 
23-12-2021||India||Karnataka CM Bommai pushes for new education policy||Karnataka chief minister Basavaraj Bommai on Wednesday emphasised upon practical based education system and said the NEP would bridge the gap.“A practical based education system is needed to meet challenges of rapid change in the present era. There is a huge difference between the syllabus being taught and the practical needs of the world,” the Chief Minister said after laying the foundation stone for the Rani Chennamma University building complex at Hirebagevadi.According to him, the New Education Policy(NEP) is being implemented to bridge this gap.“Present generation of students need the power of knowledge to face the challenges with confidence and courage and the NEP would empower them with necessary knowledge,” Bommai explained.Stating that Rani Chennamma was the inspiration behind the university, Bommai said Kittur Rani Chennamma fought against the British with great courage and confidence and made history as the first woman freedom fighter. He added that Sangolli Rayanna too played a big role in repulsing the British.The Chief Minister called upon those associated with this university to show the commitment to take this institution to international level.“Universities should not become mere centres of awarding degrees. They should foster innovation, experimentation and develop into centres for finding solutions for problems being faced by society.They should keep pace with technological and social changes happening in the world,” Bommai said.Bommai also stressed upon universities inculcating logical and lateral thinking and creating a conducive eco-system for learning.He assured all help from the state government to enable Rani Chennamma university to bring changes in the education system.The State government would complete the works of providing a beautiful environment, roads and other infrastructure with modern buildings within a year, the chief minister told the gathering.He said every room in the building will be digitised and become a global link of knowledge.“This is the knowledge century. Those with knowledge would rule the world,” Bommai said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/karnataka-cm-bommai-pushes-for-new-education-policy-101640199976736.html
23-12-2021||India||Court orders FIR against Salman Khurshid for comments in his book on Hindu religion||Lucknow: A court here ordered police on Wednesday to register an FIR against senior Congress leader Salman Khurshid for comparing the ‘Sanatan’ Hindu religion with the Boko Haram and ISIS terror outfits in his book titled ‘Sunrise Over Ayodhya: Nationhood in our times’.Additional Chief Judicial Magistrate Shantanu Tyagi ordered the registration of FIR against the former Union minister.The court directed Bakshi Ka Talab police in-charge to get the FIR lodged under relevant provisions of law and ensure a proper investigation in the matter.“The copy of the FIR be sent to the court within the next three days,” the magistrate said.The order came on an application moved under section 156(3) of the Code of Criminal Procedure (CrPC) by one Shubhangi Tiwari.In its order, the magistrate said, “From a perusal of the application and the arguments raised in its support, I am of the opinion that cognisable offences are made out against Salman Khurshid.” The applicant alleged that certain portions of the book amounted to hurting the religious feelings of Hindus.It was also stated that an application was moved at the police station for the registration of an FIR against the Congress leader, but the police did not do so and hence, the plea was filed in the court.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/court-orders-fir-against-salman-khurshid-for-comments-in-his-book-on-hindu-religion-101640199972702.html
23-12-2021||India||Telangana: Maoists kill ex-sarpanch branding him as police informer||Telangana police on Wednesday found the body of a former sarpanch at the Kothapalli forests on the Andhra Pradesh-Chhattisgarh border, two days after he was reportedly abducted by members of the banned Communist Party of India (Maoist), the police said.A senior official from the Mulugu district police confirmed the death of Korsa Ramesh, former sarpanch of K Kondapuram village in Mulugu. The police also recovered a letter near the body, purportedly written by CPI (Maoist) Venkatapuram-Vajedu area committee secretary Shantha, stating that he was eliminated for allegedly acting as a police informer after being tried at a “people’s court”, the senior official added.Mulugu superintendent of police Sangram Singh Patil told HT that the murder had taken place at Kothapalli in the Chhattisgarh limits and the Mulugu police had received the information about the body being found at around 8 am. He was on his way to Charla village of Bhadradri Kothagudem district when the abduction happened. “We are coordinating with the Chhattisgarh police to bring the body to his native village,” he said.His wife, Korsa Rajitha, who works as an auxiliary nurse midwife (ANM) at a government hospital in Etur-Nagaram block, told local reporters that her husband used to work as a car driver and had not committed any crime. After his abduction, she had appealed to the Maoists to release him unharmed. But within 36 hours, the Maoists killed him, alleging that he was acting as a police informer. In the letter, a copy of which was seen by HT, the Maoist party leader said Ramesh had been acting as a double-agent – working for the Maoists and pretending to be their sympathiser while at the same time, passing on information to the police.“Ramesh had been in touch with the Venkatapuram police and was passing on vital information about the movements of the Maoists, for which he was being paid money by the police. At the behest of the police, he supplied milk powder laced with poison to the Maoists, who fell sick after consuming the same. One of the Maoists, M Bhikshapathi alias Vijender, died of poisoning,” Shantha alleged in the letter.Accusing that Ramesh was also responsible for a major encounter, the Maoist leader said the deceased had collected ₹2 lakhs from the police for the same. “We are killing him as per the people’s wish as he betrayed the people and party,” Shantha said.
23-12-2021||India||Parliament: Stormy winter session ends||The winter session of Parliament, which was marked by heated protests by opposition parties and the passage of major legislation was adjourned a day ahead of schedule on Wednesday, with the Lok Sabha managing 82% productivity and the Rajya Sabha just 48%, amid a raging controversy over the suspension of 12 Upper House members.The stormy session, which kicked off with the repeal of three contentious agriculture laws, witnessed a bitter face-off between treasury and opposition benches in both chambers. Amid disruptions inside the House and protests outside, the government introduced 12 bills and pushed through 10 pieces of non-financial legislation, including one to link electoral rolls to the Aadhaar database and two others extending the terms of the Central Bureau of Investigation and Enforcement Directorate chiefs.The National Democratic Alliance (NDA) government also introduced a bill to raise the minimum age of marriage for women from 18 to 21, though later decided to refer it to a parliamentary committee on the penultimate day of business. This is the fifth time in a row that a Parliament session has ended earlier than scheduled.The Rajya Sabha’s 48% productivity was the fifth-lowest figure in the past four years. A miffed Rajya Sabha chairman Venkaiah Naidu said that the Upper House functioned “much below its potential” and urged the lawmakers to “collectively reflect and introspect if this session would have been different and better”.In his valedictory speech, Naidu said that he didn't want to speak elaborately on the course of the session as it will lead him to “take a very critical view”.Leader of the Opposition, Congress leader Mallikarjun Kharge, said that the government and the Opposition were fighting but “there was no mediator”, referring to Naidu’s insistence that the two sides must sit and talk to end the logjam.“The chairman adjourned the House due to government’s pressure whenever we said something,” he added, referring to the frequent disruptions.The suspension of the 12 opposition lawmakers on the first day of the session, November 29, over unruly scenes in the previous session of Parliament set the tone of acrimony and set off daily protests and disruptions that consumed 49.32 hours or 52.08% of the 95.06 hours available to the Upper House this session.The Question Hour — the window to seek replies from Union ministers on myriad issues — became the biggest casualty in the Rajya Sabha with 60.6% of its total time drowned in din. Naidu asked MPs to realise that “what happened is wrong” and urged them to work towards a “constructive positive atmosphere” in the future.The Lok Sabha lost 18.48 hours to disruptions, primarily to over the Congress-led Opposition’s persistent demands for the resignation of Union minister of state for home Ajay Kumar Mishra ‘Teni’, whose son Ashish Mishra is the prime accused in the October 3 Lakhimpur Kheri violence that killed eight people.Lok Sabha speaker Om Birla emphasised that “agreements and disagreements on issues may be reflected in debates and not through disruption”.“Democracy in India is a way of life. leaders of political parties and members must work in the direction of strengthening democracy and democratic institutions,” he said. He maintained that “smooth conduct of the House is the responsibility of all stakeholders” and added that he will be talking to lawmakers to improve attendance in the House.Birla later explained that the government and the Opposition couldn’t reach a consensus to discuss the Lakhimpur Kheri incident. “Some issues were not agreed by government and the Opposition,”he said, triggering a sharp response from Congress floor leader Adhir Chowdhury.Chowdhury termed the comment “laughable” and said Opposition lawmakers in the Lower House moved adjournment motions every day and tried to discuss the issue. “But as soon as they heard L of Lakhimpur, our microphones would be turned off,” he said.The winter session saw the introduction of 12 bills, as against the planned 26. Parliament approved 10 non-financial bills and the Lok Sabha also cleared the appropriation bill to provide additional budgetary support.Trinamool Congress member Derek O’Brien, who became the 13th member to be suspended on Tuesday for throwing a rule book at the Chair, said that the highlight of the session was the rediscovered unity of opposition parties.Union minister Pralhad Joshi lashed out at Opposition parties for repeated disruptions and said that the Opposition was “unable to digest” the mandate of 2019, when the BJP returned to power with an expanded majority.“It is unfortunate that despite our efforts and reaching out to the opposition, they created ruckus in the House. It seems that Congress and other opposition parties are unable to digest the mandate of 2019 given by the people,” Joshi told a press conference.
23-12-2021||India||HT This Day: Dec 23, 2000 - Lashkar men storm Army camp in Red Fort, 3 killed||Even as a function of the Army’s Seven Rajputana Rifles was on, Lashkar-e- Tayyeba militants stormed the Red Fort at 9.30 tonight (December 22) and opened fire with AK-47s, killing at least three soldiers. This is the first such strike in the national capital and agency sources say a two-member Lashkar fidyaeen (suicide squad) was involved. The attack comes two days after the Centre extended the Ramzan ceasefire in Jammu and Kashmir.Two members of the Rajputana Rifles were killed on the spot, while another was wounded and succumbed en route to hospital. The militants had switched off the lighting system inside the Mughal fort before launching the attack, apparently targeting the garrison inside. Lashkar is reported to have contacted the BBC and claimed responsibility for the attack. They also claimed that one of the militants was still inside the Fort. Army and police sources also did not rule out the possibility of militants holding out inside. The militants are supposed to have entered through the Saleem Gate of the Fort, outside which there are 400-500 slum dwellings. Police sources said the militants had carried out ambush at three separate places in the Fort. The attack was said to have been carried out near the residential quarters where hundreds of Armymen stay with their families. The Army has surrounded the Red Fort complex. Significantly, another function of the Rajputana Rifles was slated for tomorrow, which was to be attended by senior Army officials. Officials pointed out that both the Inter State Bus Terminus and the Old Delhi Railway Station are near the Red Fort and that it was possible that militants might have escaped from there. Several members of a family including women and children were trapped inside the Red Fort when the shootout occurred. They, however, reportedly escaped unhurt. There are two entry posts to the Red Fort, the Lahori Gate Khas and the Lahori Gate. There are at least four armed security guards on duty always at both these entry points. What is surprising is that the armed militants apparently managed to walk up to the cantonment area inside the Fort, where the function was going on, without being challenged. Clearly, the militant attack at the heavily-guarded Red Fort indicates a grave security lapse. The Red Fort is guarded by the 7th battalion of the Rajputana Rifles, the military police and Army headquarters post unit. The military intelligence was clueless about the attack and the shootout caught them napping. However, military intelligence officials are not ruling out the possibility of it being an insider’s job. This evening’s attack comes in the wake of several suicide attacks carried out recently by the mercenaries of the Lashkar on Army camps in the Kashmir valley. The Army cordoned off a huge area around the fort and, assisted by anti-terrorism squad personnel, launched combing operations in the entire walled city.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/htthis-day-dec-23-2000-lashkar-men-storm-army-camp-in-red-fort-3-killed-101640199915007.html
23-12-2021||India||Christmas, New Year celebrations: States limit festivities as Omicron cases rise||With cases of the Omicron variant of the coronavirus starting to rise in different parts of the country, several the states have started imposing restrictions on Christmas and New Year celebrations.On Wednesday, when Omicron tally in India rose to 263, the Delhi Disaster Management Authority directed district magistrates to ensure that there are no gatherings in public places on Christmas and New Year in the Capital.The same day, the Karnataka government asked district health authorities to enhance surveillance and designate contract tracers and quarantine observers. The order by state’s principal secretary health, TK Anil Kumar, said 19 cases of Omicron have been detected in the state since December 2, when country’s two first Omicron cases were reported from Bengaluru. He said primary and secondary contacts would have to be identified within 24 hours of a person testing Covid positive.On Tuesday, chief minister Basavaraj Bommai said that New Year celebrations at public places will take place in a restricted manner, with celebrations allowed in restaurants and clubs with 50% seating capacity, and for people who have got both shots of the vaccine. No special events or celebrations involving performances by disk will be allowed. The restrictions will be in effect from December 30 to January 2. Christmas prayers will be allowed only inside the Church premises, and no prayers in public places will be allowed, a government order added.““We had a meeting with experts through video conference regarding the new year celebrations, keeping in mind the Covid-19 and Omicron related cases. On their recommendation, the government decided to prohibit mass gatherings in the city and other public places in the state. We are banning mass gatherings at open places. This is across the state from December 30 to January 2,” Bommai said.In Maharashtra, the BMC (Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation) issued new guidelines saying that up to 50% capacity is allowed in closed spaces and 25% capacityare allowed in open spaces. Also, written permission will be required to hold events for assembly of more than 200 people. The guidelines clearly stated that all the violators will be punished under sections of the Indian Penal Code, 1860, and Disaster Management Act, 2005.So far, 65 Omicron cases have been reported from Maharashtra, which is highest for any state in the country followed by 57 in Delhi.To be sure, more than half of the Omicron cases (35) have been discharged. Of those still infected, six have mild symptoms and rest are asymptomatic, according to Maharashtra health department.Gujarat, which has so far reported 23 Omicron cases, have imposed night curfew till December 31 and has allowed gyms and restaurants to operate with 75% capacity. Uttar Pradesh has extended imposition of section 144 of Code of Criminal Procedure till December 31 exception functions held with permission of district authorities.Although the Bihar government has not announced any new restrictions, it has empowered district magistrates to issue guidelines for the festive season. “District Magistrates are authorised to impose additional conditions while giving the permission for events and functions, “said additional chief secretary (home) Chaitanya Prasad.The Tamil Nadu government on December 14 imposed a ban on New Year celebrations in all beaches in Chennai, saying no entry and gatherings will be allowed there on December 31 and January 1. The government also said the ban on social, cultural and political events will continue till December 31.However, West Bengal chief minister Mamata Banerjee on December 20 announced that her government will celebrate Christmas in Churches across the state in a big way. Restrictions have also not been imposed in states such as Kerala, Assam, Tripura, Odisha and Rajasthan, though people have been asked to avoid large gatherings and ensure Covid-appropriate behaviour. Officials in several of these states, however, said that restrictions are likely to be announced in the next few days.(With inputs from state bureaus)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/christmas-new-year-celebrations-states-limit-festivities-as-omicron-cases-rise-101640199912202.html
23-12-2021||India||Congress leader PT Thomas dies at 71||Senior Congress leader and MLA PT Thomas died at the Christian Medical College in Vellore, Tamil Nadu, on Wednesday after a brief illness, his family members said. He was 71. A skilled orator and organiser, Thomas was known was known for his bold positions on key issues. He is survived by his wife and two children. When the Congress opposed the Madhav Gadgil Committee report on Western Ghats fearing the wrath of the church, he stood with the report emphasising the need to preserve the fragile ecology of Ghats. A sitting MP from Idukki at the time, he was later denied a seat following protest from the church. He went on to represent the Thrikkakara assembly constituency twice. Once mentored by A K Antony, Thomas was presently the working president of the Kerala Congress and was known for grooming a young crop of leaders in the state. Governor Arif Mohammad Khan, Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan and Congress leader Rahul Gandhi condoled the death of the leader. “As a vibrant and dedicated leader and parliamentarian he had endeared himself to the people,” said Governor Khan. “The state has lost an able parliamentarian and orator,” said Vijayan.“He will be remembered for being a vibrant and helpful person,” said Rahul in his condolence massage. Thomas started his political career with the Kerala Students’ Union, the student wing of the Congress, and was appointed state Youth Congress president. He was then appointed a member of the All India Congress Committee and went on to be elected a parlimentarian and then legislator. Thomas sought in his will to avoid religious rites, wreaths and state funeral and play his favorite song written by late poet Vayalar Rama Verma “Chandra kalambam charthi urungam theeram ….”during his last journey.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/congress-leader-pt-thomas-dies-at-71-101640199910865.html
23-12-2021||India||Controversial drain project in Chennai awaits approval of state coastal body||After a drain project that covers most of the coastal areas in Chennai’s southern region was stalled by the National Green Tribunal (NGT) when residents and activists appealed against it, the Greater Chennai Corporation (GCC) has redesigned the detailed project report with the help of IIT-Madras, as directed by the court, which is pending the approval of the State Coastal Zone Management Authority, officials said.The project to build an integrated storm water drain network from Chennai’s Kovalam basin is divided into three components - M1, M2 and M3 – which covered various areas of the southern city.GCC officials say that work in M1 and M2 will begin soon but the M3 sector is what is in contention. A senior GCC official said they were revisiting the project with the help of IIT-M and that they had submitted a report to the District Coastal Zone Management Authority during the end of October. “They have cleared it. And now, it has gone to the state-level authority. Whenever they have their next meeting this will be taken up,” the official said.As opposed to other parts of Chennai where there is a demand for more drain coverage as it floods every monsoon the story is different in south Chennai. This region covered by M3 from Kottivakkam to Uthandhi – a 12km stretch – lined up primarily with independent houses along sea side of the popular East Coast Road (ECR) is a sandy area and acts as a natural aquifer for rain water to percolate underground, argue those who moved the NGT. Even when normal life was thrown out of gear through November when the city received 80% excess rainfall, the arterial roads in these localities were dry but the civic body says interior localities which were inundated make the project necessary.The NGT in September ordered the state government under the previous AIADMK regime and the GCC to revisit the project and that it cannot be built without obtaining Coastal Regulation Zone (CRZ) because the East Coast Road is an ecologically sensitive region based on a petition of several residents welfare associations.The NGT had constituted a joint-committee headed by an official from the union environment ministry which in its final report said that the drain project violated CRZ norms. The order said that the state and GCC can consider views of expert institutions like the IIT-Madras, Indian Institute of Sciences, Bangalore to go ahead with the project with suitable changes and CRZ clearance.“South localities do have flooding so drains are necessary. So as per orders we have redesigned them. But we are open to criticisms of the resident welfare of associations,” another senior official of the GCC said.Residents and activists are asking authorities to justify spending crores in this project which they think may obstruct the natural flow of water. A resident, who did not wish to be identified, said localities such as Sea Cliff, Juhu beach did not flood but drains were already constructed here before the stay over.“It’s naturally a sandy area so it is demarcated as an aquifer recharge zone,” says Pooja Kumar, coordinator, Coastal Resource Centre. “The drains were being built over sandy areas so the percolation is impacted. And the drains aren’t maintained well. Since it’s close to the sea level there are also chances for sea water to enter into the conduits.”Environmentalist and founder of SWARAN (Save Water and And Recharge Aquifers Network) Ram Shankar who has backed resident welfare associations who are petitioners in the NGT case says that the corporation will have to be transparent on the changes made by IIT-M. “We had submitted a map of the outfalls, 27 of which were discharging into turtle nesting areas and that’s a no-go zone,” says Shankar. Outfalls are a point where drains discharge rainwater and in Chennai’s case drains are connected to four river basins including Kovalam which is finally let into the sea.”Since the East Coast Road residents are primarily dependent on groundwater, drains carrying urban runoff and letting it into the sea is a waste of fresh water resource, says Sekhar Raghavan, founder of Rain Centre. “The solution is for Metrowater to extract groundwater, store it in overhead tanks and supply it to residents through pipelines,” says Sekhar. This solution has also been relayed to the NGT’s joint committee.“This region is extremely sensitive and cannot take such heavy infrastructure like storm water drains,” adds Shankar. “From the perspective of ground water management, if it is not managed properly it can result in long term irreversible consequences. If precious rain water is drained off into the sea or if groundwater is extracted indiscriminately, it can result in intrusion of sea water into the groundwater so freshwater will become saltwater.”Meanwhile, the corporation has invited bids for the project in M1 and M2 sections for ₹150 crore for 27 km. “This work will begin soon. And in M3, if there are areas which don’t require drains we will not go ahead with it. The NGT has asked us to re-look at the project and residents have concerns which we will address sincerely,” the GCC official quoted above said.
23-12-2021||India||TRS accuses Goyal of ‘insulting’ delegation||The Telangana Rashtra Samithi (TRS) on Wednesday demanded an unconditional apology from Union minister for food and civil supplies Piyush Goyal for allegedly humiliating a party delegation in New Delhi on Tuesday. Telangana state finance minister and nephew of chief minister K Chandrasekhar Rao, T Harish Rao alleged that the Union minister spoke in an insulting tone when the delegation of MPs and ministers met him to represent the paddy procurement issue. Goyal told reporters in New Delhi that the TRS was trying to politicise the issue by camping in New Delhi. He said he was out of station for two days on official work, yet, “they came to Delhi and accused me of not giving them an appointment.” “We are all busy with our work. They seem to have no work in their state and hence, came here to sit for two days. Who asked them to come?” Goyal had asked. Reacting strongly to the remarks, Harish Rao said Goyal had hurt the self-respect of 7 million farmers and 40 million people of Telangana. “The Telangana government’s delegation comprising six ministers and a dozen MPs went to the national capital, not because they don’t have work here, but to represent the farmers’ problems,” he said. He said the tone and tenor of Goyal’s comments were unbecoming of a central minister. “What right do you have to humiliate our ministers and the state? We have not come to you begging or requesting. We only wanted to remind you of your responsibility of procuring paddy,” Harish Rao asked. The state minister pointed out that the Union minister had a meeting with BJP leaders from Telangana before meeting the Telangana delegation. “You had time to give appointments to the state BJP leaders, but not to the Telangana government’s delegation. Our priority is farmers, but your priority is politics,” he criticised. Harish Rao said the delegation was in Delhi to ask the Centre to clarify if it would procure the entire paddy during the current Kharif season or not. “Since the Centre had fixed the target of 40 lakh tonnes paddy and the state has already procured 50 tonnes from farmers and another 20-30 lakh tonnes is lying in the market, the delegation went to Delhi to request the Centre to enhance the target and lift the entire paddy,” he said. Harish also took exception to Goyal’s remarks blaming the state government for not procuring paddy from farmers. He pointed out that the state government sent several letters to the Centre, requesting it to make all arrangements to lift the paddy stocks. Senior BJP leader and lawmaker M Raghunandan Rao said the TRS government was conspiring to defame the Centre instead of finding a solution to the problem. “There is nothing wrong in Goyal asking the state delegation for running around Delhi, instead of coming to the rescue of farmers,” he said. He alleged that the TRS was trying to politicise the paddy procurement issue only to cover up its inefficiency in addressing the issue at the state level.
23-12-2021||India||Prime Minister Narendra Modi to hold Covid review meeting today||Prime Minister Narendra Modi will hold a meeting on the Covid-19 situation in the country on Thursday, amid concerns caused by the Omicron variant of SARS-CoV-2 virus that causes Covid-19, people familiar with the development said on Wednesday.India has so far recorded 263 cases of the Omicron variant of the coronavirus across 15 states and Union territories and 90 of the infected people have either recovered or migrated, according to the Union health ministry’s data updated on Wednesday.The people cited above said that PM Modi will take stock of the Covid-19 pandemic situation across the country.There have also been demands that the government allow booster doses of vaccines to be administered to those already fully inoculated against Covid-19, as has been done by many countries.The meeting by PM Modi comes on the heels of Union government’s advisory to states and Union territories on Tuesday, asking them to “activate” war rooms, keep analysing even small trends and surges and keep taking strict and prompt containment action at the district and local levels. In its communication on Tuesday, the Centre said the Omicron variant of the SARS-CoV-2 virus that causes Covid-19 is at least thrice more transmissible than its Delta variant.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/prime-minister-narendra-modi-to-hold-covid-review-meeting-today-101640199905861.html
23-12-2021||India||Govt blames Opposition for disruption-hit winter session of Parliament||Union parliamentary affairs minister Pralhad Joshi on Wednesday put the onus of the disruption-hit winter session on the Opposition, saying they were not able to “digest” the mandate received by Prime Minister Narendra Modi in the 2019 general election.“It is unfortunate that despite our efforts and reaching out to the opposition, they created ruckus in the House. It seems that Congress and other opposition parties are unable to digest the mandate of 2019 given by the people,” Joshi said, after the winter session was adjourned a day ahead of schedule. The session, which began on November 29, was marred by prolonged disruptions, particularly in the Upper House, where the suspension of 12 Opposition lawmakers on the first day touched off a heated confrontation between the government and Opposition. The productivity in the Upper House stood at only 48%. In the Lower House, which clocked a productivity of 82%, the Opposition’s demand to debate the Lakhimpur Kheri violence sparked some disruptions and limited work. The Opposition accused the government of stifling debate in the House and rushing bills through. But Joshi rejected the charge and said that adequate time was granted to Opposition leaders for studying bills, particularly the Election Laws (Amendment) Bill, which proposes linking electoral rolls to the Aadhaar database. “The bill was circulated among members in advance to prepare for an informed debate,” the minister said. The Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) particularly targeted Congress leader Rahul Gandhi for instigating disruptions in the House. ”It has always been the endeavour of the government that there should be a healthy and smooth discussion in the House. But the Opposition was adamant on obstructing the business of the House on one pretext or the other,” Joshi said. “We will pray to God to give wisdom to Rahul Gandhi and his colleagues so that the next session can go on smoothly,” he quipped. The minister said the Biological Diversity (Amendment) Bill, 2021, was referred to the joint committee of both Houses of Parliament and five bills were referred to standing committees. Giving added importance to issues raised in the Zero Hour—the slot for MPs to raise issues primarily of their constituencies—Joshi informed that Prime Minister Narendra Modi has directed all ministers to give priority to Zero Hour matters. He also pointed out that during the United Progressive Alliance era (2004 to 2014), members hardly got time to raise issues of the people in their constituency during Zero Hour, “The MPs can now raise issues in the Zero Hour,” Joshi said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/govt-blames-opposition-for-disruption-hit-winter-session-of-parliament-101640199857126.html
23-12-2021||India||Mysuru: 27-year-old dies after cleaning sewage, family stages protest||Family of a 27-year-old man who allegedly died due to manual scavenging in Mysuru held a protest outside the deputy commissioner’s office on Wednesday demanding justice. Madhu, a resident of Pourakarmika Colony in Mysuru, was asked to clean the sewage soak pit in a schoolteacher’s house in Krishnapura Road on December 18. A day later, he was rushed to Periyapatna Government Hospital, from where he was taken to a hospital in Mysuru and was admitted there. Madhu later breathed his last at the hospital on Monday, the family said. Madhu’s family alleged that he was forced to clean the pit and the health department officials refused to recognise his death as a manual scavenging-related incident. The family also said it was after the Safai Karmachari Jagruti Samithi, an association for the cleaning staff (Pourakamirka), learned about the incident, health department officials rushed to house and removed Madhu from the location.The family members further alleged that no action was taken against those responsible for employing Madhu for the manual scavenging job and said no compensation was paid since “it was not a manual scavenging related incident.” Responding to the allegation, a senior official of the health department said that a complaint has been lodged at Periyapatna police station against the teacher who employed him. Mysuru DC B Gautham told the media that adequate compensation would be provided to the family members and that he has directed police officials to complete all legal procedures soon. “I have directed the officials concerned to conduct an investigation and take legal action against those who had made the Pourakarmikas indulge in manual scavenging,” said the DC. Gautham also said they will pay the compensation as per the SC directions and an additional ₹8.5 lakh under the SC/ST Atrocities Act. Earlier, pourakarmikas led by former Karnataka State Safai Karmachari Commission chairman Narayana also staged a protest and asked the DC to arrest the person and officials who forced the pourakarmikas to clean the pit manually. They demanded that the government pay a compensation of ₹25 lakh to the family of the deceased besides a government job, reported a news agency. According to Karnataka State Commission for Safai Karamcharis, the state has witnessed 36 manual scavenging-related incidents since 2008, resulting in 72 deaths. Police cases were filed in all the incidents, but there has not been a single conviction. In four cases, police filed a B Report, which meant they did not find evidence to file a charge sheet. Five cases were registered as unnatural death, 15 still are under trial, two under investigation and in 12 cases, the accused have been acquitted.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/mysuru-27-year-old-dies-after-cleaning-sewage-family-stages-protest-101640199853912.html
23-12-2021||India||Inmate who saw Sheena Bora in J&K ready to depose before CBI: Indrani Mukerjea||The inmate who saw Sheena Bora is willing to record her statement before the Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI) in connection with the Sheena Bora murder case, informed Sana R Khan, Lawyer of Indrani Mukherjea on Wednesday.Speaking to ANI, Khan said, “I have been informed by my client Indrani Mukherjea (mother and prime accused in this murder case) that a lady officer (inmate) has informed her that she met Sheena Bora on June 24 near Dal Lake.”“This officer is ready to record her statement before the CBI. We will file an application to direct the CBI to conduct a fair probe,” the lawyer further said.Earlier on December 16, the prime accused Indrani Mukherjea had also written to the CBI and said that she will move to CBI court to record a statement of a jail inmate who claimed to have met Sheena in Kashmir.Indrani Mukherjea, the mother of Sheena Bora in her letter to the investigating agency stated that an inmate in Byculla prison at present had told her that she had spotted Sheena in Kashmir some time ago. In her letter, Indrani has requested the CBI to look into the possibility of Sheena being alive.Indrani has always maintained that Sheena has not been murdered and is alive and had gone abroad for her education in 2012, although Indrani could never prove her claims in any way.Indrani Mukherjea, who is currently lodged in Byculla jail of Mumbai had also sent a letter from the jail to CBI stating that Sheena Bora is alive. A source close to Indrani confirmed that the letter was written based on input given by another jail inmate.Indrani’s lawyer Sana Raees Khan refused to confirm anything about the contents of the letter but said that she will file an application before Bombay High court on December 28 and only after filing that application, she will share the details of the letter written by Indrani to CBI.The CBI has been investigating the Sheena Bora case since 2015, after taking over the case from Mumbai Police. According to the case registered by Mumbai Police, Sheena Bora was kidnapped and murdered by strangulation in April 2012.This case first came to light after the arrest of Indrani’s driver, Shyamvar Rai in another case in August 2015. During the investigation, he confessed to having murdered Sheena Bora in April 2012 and said that he dumped her body in the Raigad district of Maharashtra. He also told Mumbai Police that Sheena’s mother, Indrani Mukerjea and Sanjeev Khanna (Ex-husband of Indrani) were also involved in this murder.According to CBI’s case before the court, Indrani Mukerjea killed Sheena Bora because she was furious over the relationship between Sheena Bora, whom she introduced as her sister to everyone, and Rahul Mukerjea, son of Peter Mukerjea (third husband of Indrani Mukerjea) from his first marriage.According to the CBI, Indrani killed Sheena Bora as Sheena was threatening to expose her in public over the fact that she was not her sister, but her daughter, CBI said. Driver Shyamvar Rai turned approver in this case.Peter Mukerjea was given bail by a special CBI court in March 2020. During the trial of the case, Indrani and Peter decided to end their relationship too. They were given divorce by a family court in Mumbai in October 2019||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/inmate-who-saw-sheena-bora-in-j-k-ready-to-depose-before-cbi-indrani-mukerjea-101640199849826.html
23-12-2021||India||After students refuse to eat food cooked by Dalit woman, she is fired for ‘wrongful appointment’||A Dalit woman, whose appointment as a cook in a government school in Uttarakhand sparked a boycott of midday meals by “upper caste” students, lost her job on Wednesday after authorities decided that norms were allegedly flouted in her appointment.Officials in the state’s Champawat district said the principal of the Sukhidhang government inter college (GIC), Prem Singh, didn’t get Sunita Devi’s appointment as the bhojanmata (person who cooks midday meals) cleared by higher authorities. Secondary schools are known as inter colleges in some districts of the hill state.“We found during the inquiry that the principal of the college had failed to follow the norms in the appointment. After this, we cancelled the appointment of the Dalit Bhojanmata unanimously,” said RC Purohit, chief education officer (CEO) of Champawat district.Sunita Devi was appointed as the bhojanmata on December 13, replacing Shakuntala Devi, an upper caste woman. On Devi’s first day, all students consumed the midday meal together.But a day later, some 40 upper caste students in classes 6 to 8 -- out of a total of 66 pupils in these classes -- stopped eating the meals and started bringing tiffin from home, said Prem Singh.Parents of the upper caste children backed the boycott and alleged that Devi had been chosen as the cook by overlooking a more deserving candidate, Pushpa Bhatt, a Brahmin. The incident sparked protests and prompted the government to set up an inquiry.On Tuesday, Purohit , deputy education officer (DEO) Anshu Bisht visited the inter college on Tuesday and called a meeting of the school management committee (SMC), parent teacher association (PTA) and the village head.“The principal should have taken approval before the appointment but he failed to follow the norms. As per norms, approval is must from DEO before the appointment. Now, whole process will be again conducted and the Dalit bhojanmata can again apply,” said Purohit.Till the appointment of the new cook, another bhojanmata, an upper caste woman, will make the midday meals. “I made the children of every caste sit with one another and eat the midday meal on Tuesday. There is no problem between parents and children now,” the CEO added.Government schools are mandated to provide a midday meal to all students to encourage attendance and ensure adequate nutrition. There are two posts for cooks in the school. The other cook belongs to the upper caste community.“Our higher authorities found some lacuna in the appointment process and cancelled the appointment of the Dalit bhojanmata. We will again start the process for this post as per norms. All children have started eating midday meal from today cooked by at college,” Prem Singh said on Wednesday.Parents of the upper caste students said they were satisfied with the government decision.“Parents are satisfied with the inquiry and decision of education officers. Process of the appointment has to be conducted again. We hope all norms will be followed in the appointment of bhojanmata. Upper caste children have called off the boycott and are having midday meals as earlier,” said Narendra Joshi, president of the PTA.The move to dismiss Devi was sharply criticised by many activists and rights groups, who said it reeked of caste discrimination and bias.“This is a social evil that upper caste students boycotting the midday meal cooked by Dalit woman. In this case, the authorities should appoint her again and set up an example,” said PC Tiwari, president of the Uttarakhand Parivartan Party, a political party registered with the Election Commission of India.Devi couldn’t be contacted for comment.“This kind of discrimination will alienate scheduled caste people from the society. Dalit woman should be given opportunity to serve as bhojanmata if she fulfil the norms and parents of upper caste students must understand that it will strengthen relationship in the society,” said Anita Arya, a local activist.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/uttarakhand-after-students-refuse-to-eat-food-cooked-by-dalit-woman-she-is-fired-for-wrongful-appointment-101640199844816.html
23-12-2021||India||Will probe ‘anti-minority’ speeches by right-wing outfits: Uttarakhand police||Haridwar/Dehradun: Uttarakhand Police said on Wednesday it would inquire into alleged speeches made against religious minorities by members of right-wing organisations at the three-day Dharma Sansad held December 17-19 in Haridwar. The move comes after video clips of the speeches were circulated widely on social media, drawing flak from several corners. HT could not independently verify the authenticity of these videos. The speeches allegedly made at the event held from December 17-19, includes one participant saying he wished to become Nathuram Godse and shoot then Prime Minister Manmohan Singh.Another participant warned Haridwar administration that they would vandalise hotels and commercial establishments where Christmas celebrations are held. Another speaker could be heard targeting religious minorities. Uttarakhand director general of police (DGP) Ashok Kumar said on Wednesday, “As of now, the police haven’t received any complaint against the speeches made by participants in the event. However, the police would look into them and take action as per law.” One of the seers at the event could be allegedly seen passing objectionable statements against former PM Manmohan Singh. He cited a statement made by Singh in Parliament, which however, could not be heard in the video.He then said, “Ye humare pradhan mantri sahab sansad me bole the. Aur maine jab ye padha na paper me to hua mann me ki kaash mai bhi saansad hota aur haath me revolver hota, aur mai Nathuram Godse ho jata. Aur apni 6 ki 6 goliyan Manmohan Singh ki chaati me laga deta. (This was said by our PM in the Parliament. And when I read about it in the newspaper, I just wished that if I would have been an MP there holding a revolver, then I would have become Nathuram Godse and put all the six bullets in him inside the Parliament).”During the same event, some seers also made objectionable statements against religious minorities. One of them targeted a particular minority community saying swords were not enough to kill them and people needed much better weapons. Supporting the call to disrupt chirstmas celebrations, Shri Akhand Parshuram Akhada has also pitched in and threatened of protests if hotels and restaurants continue with their plans to celebrate. “Sanatan Dharma regards Ganga as a deity. Hindus should ensure they observe and promote Sanatan Dharma and not other religions. We oppose such celebrations in a non- violent manner,” said akhada founder Adheer Kaushik. Another outfit Kali Sena has also warned of legal action against those establishments which celebrated Christmas. “Haridwar is a religious city where any celebrations of other religions are not apt. We seek cooperation, otherwise we will file a complaint at police stations against such hotel owners” said Vikas Chauhan, state president of Kali Sena. Former chief minister and Congress national general secretary Harish Rawat termed the speeches “highly condemnable and objectionable.” “It is shocking and hurtful that someone can use such words against a man like former Prime Minister Manmohan Singh who is the epitome of sobriety and a thorough Gandhian. He might have never said anything which hurt any other person. Despite that, if anyone thinks of killing him, then it is upto the people of country to think where we are heading towards?” said Rawat. He added, “More hurtful was the fact that such speeches were made near Maa Ganga who might be thinking how can someone say something so objectionable against others.” The BJP meanwhile, distanced itself from the statement made by the seers against former PM Singh and minorities.Party state vice-president Devendra Bhasin said, “BJP has nothing do with the statements made by the participants of the event. Having said that, party also never supports violence against anyone.”Haridwar police have assured hoteliers and restaurant owners of maintaining law order in the city during Christmas. “Police will ensure of maintenance of law and order with adequate security so that peaceful Christmas celebrations can be held here,” said SP (city) Swatantra Kumar.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/will-probe-anti-minority-speeches-by-right-wing-outfits-uttarakhand-police-101640199799383.html
23-12-2021||India||Civilian, policeman killed in separate attacks in Kashmir||A civilian and a police officer were killed in two separate targeted terror attacks in the Kashmir valley on Wednesday evening, police said.These were the latest in the spate of attacks on civilians and minorities over the past three months by small terror modules that has brought back memories of the targeted killings that were reported in Kashmir at the start of militancy in the early 1990s.The civilian, Rouf Ahmad, 45, was shot at by unidentified gunmen in the Eidgah area of Srinagar. He was rushed to hospital, where he succumbed to injuries. Ahmad worked as a property dealer.“Terrorists fired upon a civilian Rouf Ahmad at Merjanpora, Eidgah PS Safakadal Srinagar. The injured was shifted to SMHS hospital where he was declared dead. Case registered, investigation going on,” a J&K police spokesman said in an official release. The incident took place at 5:25pm, police said.In another attack, later n the evening, unidentified gunmen fired at a police officer near the Bijbehara police station in Anantnag. The officer, Assistant sub-inspector (ASI), Mohammad Ashraf, 51, also succumbed to his injuries in hospital.The police spokesman quoted earlier said that ASI Ashraf, who lived in Awantipora, was attacked at about 6.10pm.“In this terror crime incident, he received gunshot injuries and was immediately shifted to hospital for the treatment of his injuries, however he succumbed to his injuries,” the spokesman said.Police have registered cases in both incidents. “The respective areas have been cordoned and search in these areas is going on,” the spokesman said, adding that the circumstances leading to the terror crimes were being investigated.The attacks led to widespread condemnation from political leaders across party lines.“ I unreservedly condemn these two attacks & send my condolences to the families of those who lost their lives today,” tweeted National Conference vice president and former chief minister Omar Abdullah.“We strongly condemn the militant attack on ASI Ashraf and Rouf Ahmed in which both the policemen lost their lives. Heartfelt condolences & sympathies with their families, the Sajjad Lone-led People’s Conference said in a statement.Extending condolences to the families of the deceased, PDP president Mehbooba Mufti said “There is no end in sight to the cycle of bloodshed and violence in Kashmir.”The Bharatiya Janata Party’s J&K spokesman Altaf Thakur termed the attacks as “barbaric”, and expressed solidarity with the bereaved families.Kashmir lost its special status and statehood in a controversial central government decision on August 5, 2019. Resentment about the move continues to simmer in the Valley but the government has repeatedly said that terror attacks have deceased since the voiding of Article 370. On Wednesday, the government told the Rajya Sabha that the number of terrorist incidents decreased from 417 in 2018 to 203 (up to November 30) in 2021.At least 11 people, many of them non-local residents and from Hindu and Sikh communities, were killed in the region since October, triggering alarm among residents and authorities.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/civilian-policeman-killed-in-separate-attacks-in-kashmir-101640199796806.html
23-12-2021||India||India should emerge world leader in post-Covid global order: PM Modi||New Delhi: India should emerge a world leader in the post-Covid global order, Prime Minister Narendra Modi said on Wednesday, calling for “surging ahead with a focused approach setting new targets for ourselves for 2047”.Addressing the second meeting of the national committee on ‘Azadi ka Amrit Mahotsav’, Modi said the pandemic has taught new lessons and shattered the existing structures which will lead to the emergence of a “new world order” in the post-Covid era, according to a statement. It is commonly stated that the 21st century belongs to Asia, and it is important to focus on India’s stature in Asia in this century, he said. Emphasising that this is an opportune time to set eyes on 2047 when the country will celebrate 100 years of independence, he said the current generation will be at the helm of affairs then and the nation’s destiny will be in their hands. “Therefore, it is important to decide what we must inculcate in them now so that they will be able to make big contributions in the future towards the country,” he said. “We have always insisted upon and fought for our rights but there is a higher greatness in following one’s duties,” he added. It is only when people follow their duties religiously that they are able to ensure rights of others automatically, he said. Therefore, as Azadi Ka Amrit Mahotsav is celebrated, the commitment to duty should be the uppermost priority and the pledge to contribute meaningfully for the country should be the main resolve, he said, asserting the programme will sow the seed of a sense of duty among the youth. Noting that it must be remembered that the future is always born in the lap of the past, he said people must not forget their forefathers who have sacrificed their youth, their lives and their families for the country.No stone should be left unturned to pay respect to the freedom fighters and unsung heroes of the freedom movement, he said. “The Prime Minister concluded that as we observe Azadi Ka Amrit Mahotsav, we should surge ahead with a focused approach setting new targets for ourselves for 2047,” the statement said. The members of the national committee who attended the meeting included the Lok Sabha speaker, governors, Union ministers, chief ministers, political leaders, officials, media personalities, spiritual leaders, artists, film personalities and eminent personalities from other walks of life, it said.Culture ministry secretary Govind Mohan gave a presentation on the overview of activities of Azadi Ka Amrit Mahotsav, being held to mark the 75th anniversary of India’s Independence. The members who gave inputs at the meeting included former prime minister H D Deve Gowda; governors Acharya Devvrat and Arif Mohammad Khan; chief ministers Yogi Adityanath, Ashok Gehlot and Y S Jagan Mohan Reddy; BJP president J P Nadda, NCP leader Sharad Pawar, iconic singer Lata Mangeshkar and actor Rajnikanth among others.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/india-should-emerge-world-leader-in-post-covid-global-order-pm-modi-101640199791872.html
23-12-2021||India||Telangana records 14 new Omicron cases, tally up to 38||Telangana on Wednesday witnessed a sharp rise in the number of Omicron cases with as many as 14 international passengers testing positive for the new variant of Covid-19.State director of public health G Srinivasa Rao, in an official bulletin, said 12 international passengers from non-at-risk countries and two passengers from at-risk countries, who had arrived at the Rajiv Gandhi International Airport at Hyderabad, were found to be positive for Omicron variant.With this, the total number of international passengers who arrived at RGIA and tested positive for the Omicron variant since December 1, has gone up to 38, which includes the immediate contact an international passenger, who tested positive for Omicron variant on Tuesday, Rao said, adding that the reports of four more passengers are awaited.In the last 24 hours, as many as 182 new cases of Covid-19 were reported in Telangana, out of 37,353 people tested for the virus. There was only one death during this period. In all, 205 people recovered from the Covid-19 in the last 24 hours and at present, there are 3,610 active cases in the state.
23-12-2021||India||Karntaka issues guidelines for contact tracing of Omicron patients||The Karnataka government on Wednesday issued new guidelines for district administrations and Bengaluru civic body (BBMP), which said that primary and secondary contacts of Covid-19 positive persons should be traced within 24 hours and quarantined for seven days in the wake of rising number of virus cases.“The Primary & Secondary Contacts (PC/SC) is to be identified within 24 hours of reporting Covid positive case. The Primary Contacts should be tested on 1st day and again on 8th day and home quarantined for seven days from (the) date of COVID positive reporting,” the government said in its circular on Wednesday.The circular comes when Karnataka has recorded a total of 19 cases of covid-19 infections of the Omicron variant, which have added to fears of a possible third wave of the disease in the southern state.“In the wake of Omicron variant of Covid-19 cases being reported in the state, new guidelines have been issued to district administrations and BBMP for enhanced surveillance, effective tracing, tracking & quarantine of primary & secondary contacts and triaging of infected persons,” Dr K Sudhakar, Karnataka’s minister for health, family welfare and medical education said in a post on Twitter.The total number of active covid-19 cases in Karnataka rose to 7138 on Wednesday after the state reported 321 new infections in 24 hours. The positivity rate was at 0.32% and the case fatality rate at 1.24%, according to the daily bulletin of the state health department.The Basvaraj Bommai-led state government has also imposed restrictions on public gatherings and celebrations around Christmas and New Year to contain any chance of spreading.“Currently, about 300 COVID cases are being reported daily in Karnataka, and the Test Positivity Rate (TPR) has been around 0 25% to 0.30% for some time. The new Variant Of Concern (VoC) - Omicron is spreading rapidly across the Globe and some cases are reported in India and Karnataka too, which is a cause of concern,” the circular stated, adding that “if left unchecked, may trigger a spike in (the) number of new infections.”The government added that to sustain the gains achieved so far in surveillance, containment efforts and to make the best effort to prevent the occurrence of the third wave, it is necessary to track and quarantine the primary and secondary contacts more effectively.The state government has added that all international travellers from high-risk countries need to be quarantined for seven days upon their arrival, tested and checked on the eighth day.The government added that the districts as well the Bruhat Bengaluru Mahanagara Palike (BBMP) shall post dedicated and full-time persons separately for contact tracing and quarantine/home isolation watch immediately.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/karntaka-issues-guidelines-for-contact-tracing-of-omicron-patients-101640199787054.html
23-12-2021||India||PM Modi to launch projects worth over ₹2,000 crore in Varanasi today||Prime Minister Narendra Modi will visit Varanasi on Thursday and launch multiple projects and schemes worth over ₹2,095 crore, his office said on Wednesday.This will be the Prime Minister’s second visit to his constituency in 10 days, ahead of the Uttar Pradesh elections next year. On December 13, he visited the city to inaugurate the Kashi Vishwanath Corridor.Among several projects, Modi is scheduled to lay the foundation stone of the Banas Dairy Kashi Sankul (complex) at Uttar Pradesh State Industrial Development Authority Food Park in Karkhiyaon area, Bharatiya Janata Party’s Kashi region spokesperson Navratan Rathi said.A statement from the Prime Minister’s Office (PMO) said that the dairy, spread over 30 acres, will be built at a cost of about ₹475 crore and will have a facility for processing five lakh litres of milk per day.The project will empower farmers and milk producers of eastern Uttar Pradesh region, besides providing customers good quality products at affordable rates, Rathi said.Besides this, the Prime Minister will also digitally transfer a bonus of about ₹35 crore to the bank accounts of more than 1.7 lakh milk producers associated with the Banas Dairy.At Ramnagar, Modi will lay the foundation stone for a biogas-based electricity generation plant for the Milk Producers’ Cooperative Union Plant to make it energy sufficient, the statement said.The Prime Minister will also launch a portal and logo dedicated to the Conformity Assessment Scheme of milk products, developed by the Bureau of Indian Standards (BIS) with the help of National Dairy Development Board (NDDB). The unified logo, featuring logos of both BIS and NDDB quality mark, will simplify the certification process for the dairy sector and will reassure the public about dairy product quality, the statement said.In another effort to curb land ownership issues at the grassroot level, Modi will virtually distribute the rural residential rights record, “Gharauni”, under the Swamitva scheme of the Union ministry of panchayati raj, to over 20 lakh residents of the state, the PMO said.Multiple urban development projects, including six projects for the redevelopment of Old Kashi wards, a parking-and-surface park at Beniabagh, beautification of two ponds, a sewage treatment plant at Ramna village and the provisioning of advanced surveillance cameras at 720 locations under Smart City Mission will be inaugurated.In the education sector, the Union education ministry’s Inter University Centre for Teachers Education, built at a cost of around ₹107 crore, and a Teachers’ Education Centre at Central Institute of Higher Tibetan Studies, built at a cost of over ₹7 crore, will be inaugurated by the Prime Minister. Residential flats and staff quarters at Benaras Hindu University and Industrial Training Institute, Karaundi will also be inaugurated.For the health sector, Modi will inaugurate a project comprising doctors’ hostel, a nurses’ hostel and shelter home amounting to ₹130 crore, at the Mahamana Pandit Madan Mohan Malviya Cancer Centre. He will also open a 50-bed Integrated Ayush Hospital at Bhadrasi.The Prime Minister will lay the foundation of the ₹49 crore Government Homoeopathic Medical College in Pindra tehsil under the Ayush Mission, the statement said.In the road sector, the Prime Minister will lay the foundation stones of two “four-to-six lane” road widening projects for Prayagraj and Bhadohi. This will improve connectivity to Varanasi and be a step towards resolving the problem of the city’s traffic congestion, the PMO said.Modi will also inaugurate Phase-1 of a tourism development project related to Ravidas temple at Seer Govardhan, Varanasi.Rathi said that all arrangements have been completed for the Prime Minister’s programme.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/up-elections-modi-to-launch-projects-worth-over-rs-2-000-crore-in-varanasi-today-101640199785595.html
23-12-2021||India||Delhi plans strict action on Christmas, NY gatherings||Police and district authorities should carry out raids to ensure restrictions on public gatherings, including on celebrations for Christmas and the New Year, are not violated, the Delhi Disaster Management Authority ordered on Wednesday.The directive came as the country prepares to stave off a possible surge due to the highly transmissible Omicron variant and on a day when 125 new infections were recorded in the Capital, the highest since June 27. Active cases in the city are now 624, up from 286 at the beginning of the month.“All social, political, sports, entertainment, cultural, religious and festival-related gatherings and congregations are completely prohibited in Delhi, hence all DMs/DCPs shall ensure that no cultural event, gatherings, congregations take place for celebrating Christmas or New Year in the capital,” said the DDMA order issued on Wednesday.An order on December 15 already banned such gatherings but Wednesday’s directive specifies a particular focus on celebrations for the two events.To be sure, these restrictions don’t apply to private gatherings at homes.A senior official, who asked not to be named, said no Christmas Mass or congregation will be allowed but visitors will be allowed to churches with all Covid protocols. “We will hold meetings with Church authorities and plan steps to enforce Covid protocols in the church premises so that all protocols are strictly complied with,” said the official.DDMA has advised markets and offices to implement “No Mask, No Entry” restrictions at all shops and workplaces.In addition to banning all social, political, entertainment, cultural and other gatherings, the December 15 order also limited restaurants and bars to function at up to 50% of their capacity. Wedding-related gatherings are permitted with a ceiling of 200 people.DDMA said in its order that restrictions and safe-behaviour guidelines, such as wearing masks, were not being strictly complied with by the general public and there was laxity on the part of the enforcement authorities as well.This prompted the agency, the main authority for rules related to the pandemic, to direct district magistrates (DMs) and deputy commissioners of police to conduct raids at markets and crowd-pulling areas and take strict action against defaulters.District authorities have been asked to tighten the enforcement machinery and deploy sufficient number of teams at public places to prevent a possible surge in cases.All DMs have been asked to conduct surveys of the entire area within their jurisdiction and identify markets and public places with a potential to become super spreaders. They will also need to convene meetings with the resident welfare associations (RWAs) and market associations to sensitise them on the necessary steps needed for Covid protocols.Market associations and neighbourhood groups have been directed not to allow residents, shopkeepers and customers to be without masks in their respective areas and public places. “They should also be made aware that if they fail in compliance of Covid appropriate behaviour, DMs will be compelled to take action against them, like shutting down markets,” said a senior official, asking not to be named.B S Vohra, president of East Delhi RWA Joint Forum, said: “Since we have witnessed a rampaging pandemic in April, this is a good move. Everyone must comply with this order so that we can avert another disaster.”Health experts welcomed the directives. Dr Lalit Kant, former head of epidemiology and communicable diseases department at the Indian Council of Medical Research, said: “Every step taken to check congregations and crowds is useful in managing Covid. The Omicron variant is very highly transmissible and congregations help the virus spread faster”.The national capital is home to largescale celebrations during this period and the ban was seen as a blow to the restaurants and hospitality sector, which has been among the hardest hit due to the pandemic.“We were already devastated due to Covid restrictions. Many banquet halls and hotels had taken advance booking for Christmas and New Year parties. Now, they will have to cancel them,” said Kapil Nagpal, general secretary of the Community Welfare Banquet Association.Brijesh Goyal, chairman of Chamber of Trade & Industry, an association of markets, said the ban on celebrations will hit traders. “Many events are planned in advance, so the decision will come as a blow for the traders,” said Goyal.Restaurateurs said the ban will not affect routine events in restaurants, which will need to stick to the 50% cap on seating capacity. Manpreet Singh, treasurer of the National Restaurants Association of India, said: “We are already running in loss because of 50% cap on seating capacity while the running cost is the same,” Singh said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/delhi-plans-strict-action-on-christmas-ny-gatherings-101640199739541.html
23-12-2021||India||‘Hands tied’: Rawat takes dig at Congress top brass||Senior Congress leader and former Uttarakhand Harish Rawat, who is believed to have played a part in Captain Amarinder Singh’s exit as Punjab chief minister, and also from the party itself, took to Twitter on Wednesday to air grievances seemingly targeted against the central leadership of the party. The posts, coming months ahead of the elections in Uttarakhand, indicate that all isn’t well in the party, and that another state unit of the Congress is heading towards an internal crisis. In a series of tweets in Hindi, Rawat alleged that he was not getting support from the party leadership and that representatives of the high command had “tied his hands.”“Isn’t it strange that the organisational structure at most places, instead of extending a helping hand, is standing with its head turned away or playing a negative role at a time when I have to swim across the ocean of elections...the powers that be have left crocodiles here. People on whose orders I have to swim, their nominees are tying my hands and feet,” he tweeted .The BJP, which governs the state, has had its share of problems (it is currently on its third chief minister), but the comments from Rawat, the Congress’ biggest and senior most leader in the state, have taken most people by surprise. In one of them, he even hinted at retirement. “I am filled with thoughts. A voice from within sometimes tells me ‘It is enough Harish Rawat, you have swam long, it is time to rest’,” he said. At a press conference later, he refused to clarify his tweets and said he would speak on them at the right time. When reporters insisted on a response, he said,”Anand lijeye (enjoy).”Party leaders, who asked not to be named, said he was referring to the Congress incharge for the state, Devendra Yadav, and leader of Opposition in assembly, Pritam Singh.Yadav and Singh did not respond to calls seeking comment. In July, Rawat was made campaign committee in-charge for the state but not declared the chief ministerial candidate. Singh, a rival of Rawat, is also a probable CM candidate. Party leaders said the state Congress unit was divided into two factions, one loyal to Rawat and another to Singh.Congress leaders considered close to Rawat said his tweets were a clear indication that he was not happy with the party leadership in the state. “He is clearly telling the party high command that if he doesn’t get the required support, the party will lose the elections,” one Congress leader said. The ruling BJP said Rawat’s comments show he is not even acceptable to his own party. “Harish Rawat and his party has been claiming he will form the next government. But it seems his own party members don’t want him to lead the party in state. They know that it was because of him, that he Congress had to face such a drubbing in 2017 elections,” said BJP state media incharge Manveer Singh Chauhan. Dehradun-based political analyst M M Semwal said Rawat’s cryptic tweets have put the Congress on the back foot. “It is difficult to decipher his social media posts and statements, but it is clear that he has sent a message that if things aren’t set right, the party’s electoral prospects will weaken. He wants to make it clear to the party high command that without him the party may not win the elections in the state.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/hands-tied-rawat-takes-dig-at-congress-top-brass-101640199738663.html
23-12-2021||India||Congress gives ticket to Goa’s Pratapsingh Rane, sets up face-off with his son||PANAJI: The Congress on Wednesday named Pratapsingh Rane, 82, as the party’s candidate from Goa’s Poriem assembly seat, setting up a face-off between the former Goa former chief minister and his son, Vishwajit Rane, who is in the the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP).The announcement comes just a day after Pratapsingh Rane declared his intention to contest the elections, prompting his son to rebuke the veteran Congress leader for not retiring “gracefully” from politics. At 83, why does he have to continue in politics? One should gracefully retire after becoming a chief minister for more than nine terms. A person who is my idol and someone I have so much respect for, that person should gracefully retire, not retire in the battlefield. It will be a very messy thing,” Vishwajit said on Tuesday.Also Read: ‘Retire or will be messy’: Goa BJP’s Vishwajit Rane’s harsh advice to his fatherVishwajit Rane, who has represented Valpoi assembly seat since 2007, also declared that he will contest from the Poriem seat as well. Vishwajit later tweeted that he will sort it out “internally within the family”.Pratapsingh Rane’s candidature was announced by AICC general secretary Mukul Wasnik. He is the eighth Congress candidate to have been named by the party. The Congress earlier named eight candidates for assembly elections early next year but one of them, Curtorim MLA Aleixo Lourenço, this week resigned from the assembly and joined the Trinamool Congress led by West Bengal chief minister Mamata Banerjee.Vishwajit initially hoped to get a BJP ticket for his nominee from the neighbouring Poriem seat that his father represents. Both seats are located along Goa’s forested eastern border with Karnataka and are considered the Rane family’s pocketborough.Pratapsingh Rane’s declaration of his interest in contesting the assembly elections on Tuesday, and later Mukul Wasnik’s confirmation, have upset Vishwajit Rane’s calculations.“The Central Elections Committee has approved the candidature of Shri Pratapsingh Rane as Congress candidate for the forthcoming general election to the Legislative Assembly of Goa from 18-Poriem constituency,” Wasnik’s statement on Wednesday said.Vishwajit Rane has not reacted to the Congress fielding his father as the Poriem candidate. On Tuesday, he suggested that his father earlier agreed to retire from politics but was probably under pressure from the Congres party to throw his hat. Pratapsingh Rane is Goa’s longest serving MLA; he has won 10 assembly elections since 1972. Pratapsingh also holds a record for having served as chief minister of the state for a little less than 16 years across six terms between 1980 and 2007.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/congress-gives-ticket-to-goa-s-pratapsingh-rane-sets-up-face-off-with-his-son-101640199733904.html
23-12-2021||India||Variant watch: First SA study says Omicron may be less severe but with riders||People infected with the Omicron variant in South Africa had 80% lower odds of requiring hospitalisation than those infected with another variant between October and November, a new study released on Wednesday by health experts in the country has found, offering new hope that the new variant of concern (VOC) may be less virulent in some populations.In a second study and in press briefings later on Wednesday, South African health experts said the apparent reduction in disease severity was likely due to the high rates of prior exposure to Covid-19 in Gauteng, the province where Omicron first became widespread and where the studies were focussed. Both studies are still based on early data and carry a wide confidence range.The first study found that Omicron-infected people had 80% lower odds of hospital admission when compared to those who caught another variant during the current (fourth) wave of infections, and 70% lower odds of developing severe disease compared to those infected by the Delta variant in the previous (third) wave.But, importantly, it found that if people infected with Omicron required hospitalisation, their likelihood of developing severe disease was no different to those who were infected with other variants during the ongoing wave.The study offers the first insights after standardising data based on age and gender, the two factors that dictate severity and hospitalisation risks. It stresses that the findings do not suggest the new VOC is inherently less severe, but may be manifesting in a less intense manner now due to high population immunity from past outbreaks.The second study found that at least 68% of the unvaccinated population in Gauteng is estimated to have had a past infection prior to the Omicron wave. “The biological basis for the uncoupling of case rates and rates of severe disease with the Omicron-dominant compared with the previous Delta-dominant wave is possibly the extensive cell-mediated immunity in the population induced by previous natural infection and vaccination,” said the second study.What does this mean?Cheryl Cohen, professor at the Centre for Respiratory Diseases and Meningitis at the National Institute for Communicable Disease, said during a press briefing that the results likely hold for other regions where a large number of people have been infected, although it is still not clear how Omicron will hit countries where vaccination rates have been high but infection rates were kept low.“These results are likely generalisable in countries in sub-Saharan Africa which has high levels of prior infection. But what is unclear is whether this picture will be similar in countries where there is high levels of vaccination but very low level of [past] infection – where the baseline epidemiology is very different,” Cohen said, and agreed that population immunity after two years of the pandemic “may be leading to attenuation of severe disease”.For perspective, India’s seroprevalence among unvaccinated people was estimated at 67% (similar to Gauteng’s) in July following the devastating Delta wave of infections.Cohen added during the meeting that there were several limitations to the study. First, Omicron infections were estimated on the basis of a test report artefact – Omicron infections do not test positive for the S gene, while other variants do. The so-called S gene target failure (SGTF) happens only in one particular test kit, which meant the findings could be biased towards geographic regions where it was used.The other limitation was that the analysis was done early in the fourth wave when numbers were small and mild patients were more likely to be admitted.The South African researchers in the second study identified other possible implications of the trends seen in Gauteng.First, it appears that cell-mediated immunity (a more advanced line of defence compared to antibodies, which tend wane) may be more important in combating variants.Second, determining inherent virulence may not be easy at the moment. “The virulence of the Omicron variant relative to other variants remains to be determined, and it is not epidemiologically possible to draw conclusions based on our data due to the differing prevalence of immunity compared with what existed in the past,” they said, implying that most people infected now are either vaccinated or had a past infection.Anecdotal reports of Omicron infection deaths from other countries suggest that unvaccinated people remain most at risk. This is corroborated by scientific evidence that has found that the virus has not evolved enough to cheat killer T cells (part of cellular immunity) in the same way as it does antibodies (which are part of what is known as humoral immunity),
23-12-2021||India||Ready for safe polls, says CEC Chandra||The Election Commission of India said it is ready to hold the elections in Goa (and by extension, the other states going to polls around the same time), despite the looming threat of another wave of the coronavirus disease pandemic, but emphasized that local election officials have been empowered to ensure strict adherence to Covid protocols during campaigning, and that the polling itself will also be held with adequate precautions.It’s realistically possible to do this, Chief Election Commissioner Sushil Chandra said while fielding questions from journalists at the end of a two day visit to review preparedness in the state ahead of the elections.The Election Commission came in for criticism over the conduct of assembly elections in West Bengal -- Covid protocols were not followed by all parties involved for much of the campaign -- which coincided with the second wave of the pandemic. The Madras High Court even observed that the commission needs to be booked for attempt to murder for failing to react to the changing situation and pressing ahead with the elections.This time, it is clear the commission is taking no chances.“We are making all our booths in a Covid compliant manner, we are giving everyone masks and sanitizers, social distancing norms will be followed and it will be an absolutely safe election,” Chandra said when asked whether he was considering a possible postponement of the election should cases being to rise in January-February.“The commission is monitoring the situation and that is why we have reduced the number of voters per polling station from 1500 to 1000 and have increased the number of booths by 60 (in Goa). So, on average there are only 662 persons per polling booth, we can definitely maintain social distancing, we can definitely maintain social distancing norms also and ensure compliance of every norm will have to be done at the booths,” he said.Punjab, Uttar Pradesh, and Uttarakhand also go to polls around the same time, with UP, India’s most populous state, likely to pose the biggest challenge to the commission in terms of conducting the election. Although India has so far detected only a few hundred cases of Covid-19 caused by the Omicron variant of the SARS-CoV-2 virus, the trajectory of infections in other countries suggests that a surge in cases can’t be ruled out. The variant has been found to be more transmissible, and has the ability to cause breakthrough infections even among vaccinated or previously infected people, although initial evidence suggests the infections are mild and unlikely to require hospitalisation in most cases.Chandra said that the State Disaster Management Authority will be specifically directed to act against rallies where social distancing is not being maintained.“Rallies will absolutely have to be restrained and the park or the ground where the rallies are held, they should also maintain social distancing, the rules and conditions of the Disaster Management Act should be followed and the DEO (District Election Officer) has been given the power to act against those who violates the provisions of the Act. If anybody violates the provision, they are liable to be acted against. We will inform the SDMA (State Disaster Management Authority) that they should take actions on those grounds”.The term of the Goa State Legislative Assembly will expire on March 15, 2022. Elections are to be held before that for 40 assembly constituencies out of which 39 are general and one is reserved for scheduled castes.“ECI is totally committed to conduct the assembly elections in a free, fair, impartial, transparent and absolutely inducement free elections,” Chandra said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/ready-for-safe-polls-says-cec-chandra-101640199728948.html
23-12-2021||India||4 terrorists involved in J&K attacks on minorities killed: Govt in Parliament||Four terrorists involved in targeted attacks on people belonging to religious minority communities in Jammu and Kashmir have been killed, the Centre told Parliament on Wednesday.Responding to a query in a written statement in Rajya Sabha, minister of state for home affairs Nityanand Rai said seven people were also arrested in this regard.“Seven persons have been arrested in connection with attacks on religious minorities while four terrorists involved in these incidents have been killed. Seven accused including one absconder have been charge sheeted,” Rai said.Through his query, Congress MP Mallikarjun Kharge sought to know the reasons behind a sudden increase in unrest and targeted attacks on religious minorities in the Union territory.“...there have been a few targeted attacks on people belonging to religious minority communities by terrorists sponsored from across the border,” Rai said.The minister added that there has been an overall decline in terrorists incidents, from 417 in 2018 to 203 in 2021 (till 30th November, 2021), and the law and order situation in the Union territory has improved.Rai said that a robust security and intelligence grid has been set up to prevent any terrorist attack. Besides this, day-night area domination, patrolling and proactive operations are also being carried out in the Union territory, he said.Round-the-clock checking at ‘nakas’ and road opening parties are being adequately augmented at strategic points to thwart any terrorist attack.A State Investigation Agency (SIA) has been constituted by the Jammu and Kashmir government for speedy and effective investigation and prosecution of terrorism-related cases, Rai said.The SIA shall be the nodal agency for coordinating with the National Investigation Agency (NIA) and other central agencies, he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/4-terrorists-involved-in-j-k-attacks-on-minorities-killed-govt-in-parliament-101640199728254.html
23-12-2021||India||Rainfall expected in parts of northwest India; minimum temperatures may rise||Three consecutive western disturbances are likely to cause scattered rainfall in parts of northwest India, the India Meteorological Department (IMD) has said.Under the influence of a western disturbance as a cyclonic circulation in north Pakistan, isolated rainfall and snowfall are very likely in Jammu and Kashmir, Ladakh, Gilgit-Baltistan, Muzaffarabad, and Himachal Pradesh on Wednesday and Thursday.Two western disturbances in quick succession from Thursday and Saturday are very likely to bring light to moderate scattered and fairly widespread rainfall, snowfall in the Western Himalayan region from Thursday to Saturday. There is also a possibility of isolated heavy rain in Kashmir and Himachal Pradesh. Light to moderate isolated and scattered rainfall is also likely in adjoining plains of northwest India.The western disturbances are likely to abate cold wave conditions across northwest and central India from Thursday. A gradual rise in minimum temperatures by 3-5 degrees Celsius is likely across these regions during the next four days. No significant change is expected thereafter.Dense fog in the morning hours in isolated pockets was very likely in Punjab and Haryana from Thursday to Sunday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/rainfall-expected-in-parts-of-northwest-india-minimum-temperatures-may-rise-101640143782182.html
