24-12-2021||India||Delhi govt asks Sarojini Nagar Market to function on odd-even basis on weekends||The Delhi government on Friday ordered the Sarojini Nagar Market to operate on an odd-even basis on weekends beginning December 25-26. From tomorrow, odd numbered shops will open on Saturday and even numbered shops on Sunday. The move is aimed at preventing the market from becoming a Covid-19 super spreader because it was witnessing milling crowds recently. “Increasing footfalls have been seen in Sarojini Nagar market during the last few days; and therefore with the need to control the same in the light of the rapid spike in daily cases and positivity; it was decided unanimously by all market trade associations on Friday to follow odd-even operations for the weekend of December 25 and 26,” an order issued by the New Delhi district administration stated. DDMA in its recent order made it clear that market trade associations shall also be responsible for ensuring compliance of Covid Appropriate Behaviour by all shops, markets, market complexes within their respective areas. It also asked the district authorities to take appropriate action to ensure Covid-19 protocols are not violated in markets and public places. Ashok Randhawa, president of Sarojini Nagar Mini Market Association Traders, however, said that the order was issued without the consensus of the traders. “The administration has imposed odd-even to hide its own failure. Since the order has come late at night, all shops will open on Saturday,” Randhawa said. The administration will also crack down on unauthorized vendors and encroachment which are the main causes of crowding.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/delhi-govt-asks-sarojini-nagar-market-to-function-on-odd-even-basis-on-weekends-101640370141223.html
24-12-2021||India||87 fully vaccinated, 3 with even booster dose: What this reveals about Omicron||As the number of Omicron cases in India is galloping, the Centre on Friday revealed an analysis of the Omicron infection in India and said India's maximum Omicron patients received two doses of vaccination. 3 Omicron patients had even received the booster shots abroad. The health ministry said 183 cases have been analysed by the experts.Here are the findings and their implications1. Out of 183 cases, 121 had foreign travel history and 44 did not have any such history. The details of 18 were not known, the health ministry said. The figures prove that a considerable number of people have got Omicron without even travelling abroad. They might have come in contact with people with foreign travel history.2. Majority of the cases analysed is male. Out of 183 cases, 61% is male while 39% is female.3. Out of the analysed samples, two were partially vaccinated, seven were unvaccinated while 87 were fully vaccinated. Health ministry data reveals that three even received booster shots. While this raises the point several scientists have been claiming about Omicron's immunoevasive properties, it also shows that people with booster doses are also getting infected by the variant.4. 30% of the cases analysed were symptomatic and the rest 70% were symptomatic.ICMR Director-General Dr Balram Bhargava said, "The predominant strain in India continues to be Delta, including the recently identified clusters. Therefore, we need to continue with the same strategy of following Covid-appropriate behaviour and ramping up vaccination."Infection due to Omicron variant "does not necessarily lead to severe symptomatic clinical disease". In India, about a third of all the detected cases were mildly symptomatic and the rest were asymptomatic, Dr Bhargava said.On Friday, Maharashtra became the first state to have crossed the 100 Omicron cases as the state reported 20 new Omicron infections, taking the state's Omicron tally to 108, the highest in the country, as on Friday evening.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/87-fully-vaccinated-3-with-even-booster-dose-what-this-reveals-about-omicron-101640366907378.html
24-12-2021||India||60% polls recorded in elections of Chandigarh Municipal Corporation||Sixty percent polling was recorded in the elections for the Chandigarh Municipal Corporation held here on Friday, officials said.About 6.3 lakh voters including three lakh women were eligible to cast votes.“Today's voting percentage was 60 percent. It was 59.5 percent in the last municipal body elections in 2016,” said an official statement.The highest 72.81 percent polling was recorded in Ward 16 while Ward 23 witnessed 42.66 percent poll percentage which was the lowest, the statement said.Officials said the polling passed off peacefully.Notably, the number of wards has increased from 26 in 2016 to 35 now.Tight security arrangements had been made to ensure smooth polling, held from 7.30 am to 5 pm, the statement said.The results will be declared on December 27.Traditionally, the municipal election - held every five years - sees a locking of horns between the BJP and the Congress but the entry of Aam Aadmi Party made the contest this time triangular.The Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) holds a majority in the current municipal body. In the last MC elections, BJP had won 20 seats and its erstwhile ally Shiromani Akali Dal one. The Congress had managed to win only four seats.The BJP fought election on plank of its “achievements” in the past five years.On the other hand, the Congress and AAP targeted the BJP for allegedly failing to undertake development work and criticized it over the city going down in the “Swachh Survekshan' (a ranking for cleanliness) rankings.The two parties also targeted BJP for not resolving the issue of Dadumajra dumping ground and also raised issues like rise in prices of essential commodities.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/60-polls-recorded-in-elections-of-chandigarh-municipal-corporation-101640366272626.html
24-12-2021||India||On Good Governance Day, UP CM to lay foundation stone of 11 projects in Vajpayee's native village||Uttar Pradesh chief minister Yogi Adityanath said on Friday that he will lay the foundation stone of 11 public welfare projects worth ₹230 crore on the occasion of 'Good Governance Day' in Bateshwar village of Agra, which is the native village of India's former Prime Minister Atal Bihari Vajpayee.Taking to Twitter, Yogi Adityanath also said he will launch a campaign from the Ekana Cricket Stadium to distribute one crore free tablets and smartphones to students in Uttar Pradesh.The chief minister's announcement comes days after the Centre started the 'Good Governance Week' from December 20 till December 26.The events under this include a nationwide campaign for Redressal of Public Grievances and Improving Service Delivery and the inauguration of the Exhibition on Good Governance Practices.Also Read| Centre to celebrate ‘Good Governance Week’ on Monday to redress public grievance“A series of programmes are planned to highlight various good governance initiatives taken by the Centre during the week. The main theme of the campaign is to take good governance to the rural areas,” Union minister Jitendra Singh said last week.Since 2014, the Good Governance Day has been celebrated every year on December 25, which is the birth anniversary of former PM Atal Bihari Vajpayee. The day was declared by the Narendra Modi-led government at the Centre following the announcement of Vajpayee as a recipient of the Bharat Ratna on December 23, 2014. He was conferred with the Bharat Ratna in 2015.During the last Good Governance Day, Prime Minister Narendra Modi released a book titled ‘Atal Bihari Vajpayee in Parliament: A Commemorative Volume’ and paid floral tributes at the former Prime Minister's portrait, which was unveiled in the Central Hall of Parliament on February 12, 2019.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/yogi-to-lay-foundation-stone-of-11-projects-in-vajpayee-s-native-village-101640362838680.html
24-12-2021||India||No curbs, but take precautions while celebrating Christmas, New Year: Goa CM Sawant||The Goa government will not impose any restrictions for Christmas and New Year given that the twin festivals are celebrated in a ‘big way’ in Goa, but will issue an advisory asking the local people as well as tourists to maintain precautions while celebrating, Chief Minister Pramod Sawant said on Friday. After a meeting of the state-level task force, the Goa CM said that though there were no cases of the Omicron variant yet detected in the state the rising positivity rate was a cause of concern. “We have not introduced any restrictions for now, this being the tourist and festive season and Christmas is celebrated in a big way in Goa, but despite that the celebration should be done with precautions,” Sawant said.“We are very concerned that the positivity rate from 1.8% has gone up to 3.5%. This is a serious thing and hence people should take all precautions. Our advisory will be issued but people should not go to any crowded places without masks. As far as possible all functions should be in open spaces and functions should not be organised in AC halls,” Sawant said.“We had sent a total of 28 samples that were suspected of being infected with Omicron. Eight were found positive with the delta virus. So far none have tested for the Omicron variant. 19 reports are still pending. That’s why we have taken the decision to get the genome sequencing machine here,” the chief minister said adding that the state is currently relying on the National Institute of Virology Lab in Pune for test results.According to government figures there are 3,500 foreign tourists currently in Goa, who, as per government advisories, have to test themselves eight days after landing in the country. “We are trying to keep in touch with them (during their stay here) but some of their mobiles are not reachable. For foreign tourists taking an RT-PCR test after eight days (of arrival) is mandatory. So, we have asked the hotels where they are staying to get them tested at the nearest health centre,” Sawant said. “Those who have not done it yet, the hotels have to insist that they get it done. If it is positive, then they have to get genome sequencing done and have to visit GMC for further investigation. We will send the tests to NIV in Pune for genome sequencing,” Sawant said. The task force has also approved the procurement of a genome sequencing machine to be set up in the state so that the state does not have to rely on the NIV Pune Lab for genome sequencing. “We have approved the establishment of a genome sequencing machine at GMC. By Monday, Tuesday we will source the machine and place an order and within a month we will set it up,” Sawant said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/no-curbs-but-take-precautions-while-celebrating-christmas-new-year-goa-cm-sawant-101640366540947.html
24-12-2021||India||MiG-21 goes down in Rajasthan, 5th crash involving Bison this year, pilot dead||A MiG-21 Bison of the Indian Air Force crashed in Rajasthan on Friday evening, the fifth crash involving the Bison this year. Pilot Wing Commander Harshit Sinha died in the crash, the IAF confirmed. “With deep sorrow, IAF conveys the sad demise of Wing Commander Harshit Sinha in the flying accident this evening and stands firmly with the family of the braveheart,” the IAF tweeted. "This evening, around 8:30 pm, a MiG-21 aircraft of IAF met with a flying accident in the western sector during a training sortie. Further details are awaited. An inquiry is being ordered," the IAF earlier said in a statement, soon after the crash.  With deep sorrow, IAF conveys the sad demise of Wing Commander Harshit Sinha in the flying accident this evening and stands firmly with the family of the braveheart.The crash has once again turned the spotlight on India’s longest-serving fighter plane, its safety record and the IAF's plans to replace the ageing jets with newer ones in the coming years.The Bison is the latest variant of Mig-21 in IAF service.IAF operates four squadrons of MiG-21 Bison aircraft — a squadron has 16 to 18 fighter jets. The last of these upgraded MiG-21s are set to be phased out in the next three to four years. The air force got its first single-engine MiG-21 in 1963, and it progressively inducted 874 variants of the Soviet-origin supersonic fighters to bolster its combat potential.Of the 874 MiG-21 variants inducted by the IAF, more than 60% were licence-produced in India.More than 400 MiG-21s have been involved in accidents that have claimed the lives of more than 200 pilots during the last six decades, earning the fighters ominous epithets such as “Flying Coffin” and “Widow Maker”.Experts have said that more MiG-21s have crashed than any other fighter because they formed the bulk of the fighter aircraft in the IAF’s inventory for a long time.IAF had to keep its MiG-21 fleet flying longer than it would have liked because of delays in the induction of new fighters.The Bison was involved in IAF operations after the unprecedented, peacetime, cross-border strike against terror targets in Pakistan’s Balakot two years ago.Wing Commander (now Group Captain) Abhinandan Varthaman scripted military aviation history by downing a Pakistan Air Force (PAF) F-16, seconds before his own MiG-21 Bison was hit by a missile forcing him to eject on February 27, 2019. He was later awarded the Vir Chakra, India’s third-highest wartime gallantry award. The citation, published in the Gazette of India in December 2019, said his aggressive manoeuvres forced enemy fighters into tactical chaos and he courageously engaged the hostile aircraft package despite its numerical and technological superiority.The aerial combat with PAF took place a day after IAF’s Mirage-2000s struck targets in Balakot in response to the Pakistan-backed Pulwama suicide attack in Kashmir in which 40 Central Reserve Police Force men were killed on February 14.
24-12-2021||India||Ahead of New Year’s Eve, prohibitory orders may be in place in Bengaluru: Police chief||Prohibitory orders will be issued ahead of New Year celebrations, which are likely to restrict movement within the city on New Year’s Eve after prescribed hours, Bengaluru police commissioner Kamal Pant said on Friday. On Tuesday, Karnataka chief minister Basavaraj Bommai had said that no parties or mass gatherings would be permitted in the state from December 30 to January 2 in view of the Covid-19 scenario and the rising number of cases of the Omicron variant. However, the Chief Minister hadn’t specified whether night curfew would be implemented. Elaborating on the police’s plans, Pant said the government’s communication had said that concerned authorities in the district will take a decision on the specific steps to be taken. “We will issue a prohibitory order on Monday and Tuesday. It will be difficult to restrict gatherings in public places without such an order. Since the Assembly session is going on we will need to announce the decision once ministers are back in Bengaluru,” said Pant. Announcing the restrictions, CM Basavaraj Bommai had said that mass gatherings will not be allowed and special events like DJ parties will be prohibited on New Year’s Eve in Karnataka. “Mass gatherings will not be allowed, particularly in the MG Road area in Bengaluru. Restaurants and bars can function at 50% capacity but special events like DJ parties will not be allowed. Even in apartments, DJ parties will not be allowed. This is across the state and not just in Bengaluru,” Bommai had said. This is the second year in a row that Covid-19 related restrictions are in place in Bengaluru on New Year’s Eve. In December 2020, the Karnataka government had announced night curfew in the state from 6 pm on December 31 to 6 am on January 1. Pant said that a decision has not been taken on what time the night curfew will be imposed. “We had the night curfew starting at 10 pm but this year, we are yet to take a call. We will take all suggestions into consideration before announcing the decision,” he said. The commissioner said that all those who have made booking at hotels, pubs or restaurants will be allowed but all patrons are expected to leave before the curfew hours. “No one will be allowed to roam on the street. Those found on the street will be asked to provide the reason for being out. In case someone is getting home, we will allow them. But we will not allow anyone on the street for recreational purposes. All emergency services will be exempted from this rule,” he added. On Tuesday, 12 new cases of the Omicron variant were detected in Karnataka, the health minister said, adding that with these fresh infections, a total of 31 such cases have been found in the southern state so far. “12 new cases of Omicron have been confirmed in Karnataka today taking the tally to 31,” the minister tweeted, sharing a list of new patients infected with the strain. Among the 12 new cases, 10 were reported from Bengaluru, of which seven were foreign returnees. Among those, five passengers arrived from the United Kingdom, while one each landed from Nigeria and Denmark. Of the remaining two, Mangaluru and Mysuru reported one case each, both foreign arrivals (Ghana and Switzerland, respectively).||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/ahead-of-new-year-s-eve-prohibitory-orders-may-be-in-place-in-bengaluru-police-chief-101640361980809.html
24-12-2021||India||Remdesivir to be used in patients with moderate to severe Covid: Health ministry||The Centre on Friday said Remdesivir drug should only be used in patients with ‘moderate to severe’ Covid-19 and those with no renal or hepatic dysfunction within 10 days of the onset of any symptom.It also warned against use of the drug in patients who are not on oxygen support or in home settings.According to the clinical guidance issued by the Union health ministry for management of the infection in adult patients, Remdesivir has been asked to be “used in patients with moderate to severe Covid-19 and those with no renal or hepatic dysfunction within 10 days of onset of any symptom”.The Tocilizumab drug may be considered for use in the presence of severe disease (preferably within 24 to 48 hours of onset of severe disease/ICU admission), according to the guidelines.Tocilizumab can be used in case of significantly raised inflammatory markers (CRP &/or IL-6), condition not improving despite use of steroids and no active bacterial/fungal/tubercular infection.The ministry also said that those above 60 years of age, with cardiovascular disease, hypertension, diabetes and other immunocompromised states are at high risk for severe disease and mortality.According to the guidelines, coronavirus patients have been classified into those affected by mild, moderate and severe disease.For mild disease, home isolation and care is recommended, while admission in a ward is recommended for those battling moderate disease and ICU has been recommended for patients with severe Covid-19, they added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/remdesivir-to-be-used-in-patients-with-moderate-to-severe-covid-health-ministry-101640361695336.html
24-12-2021||India||DSK scam: Pune-based builder's son-in-law gets bail from HC||The Bombay High Court has granted bail to Kedar Vanjpe, son-in-law of Pune-based builder Deepak Kulkarni of the DSK group, accused in a ₹2000 crore scam where investors were duped. Kulkarni, his wife Hemanti, Vanjpe and others were arrested in 2018 under various sections of Indian Penal Code and Maharashtra Protection of Interest of Depositors (in Financial Establishments) Act, or the MPID Act. On Thursday, a single bench of Justice N W Sambre granted Vanjpe bail against a personal bond of ₹1 lakh.In its detailed order, that was made available on Friday, the court said there is no evidence to infer Vanjpe had promised any depositor high returns. “As far as invoking of the provisions of MPID Act are concerned, there is hardly any material to infer the applicant (Vanjpe) had any time promised higher returns to depositors and lured them to deposit the amount with the company," the order said. Vanjpe's advocate Aniket Nikam argued two other accused in the case, director and authorized signatory Hemanti Kulkarni (Vanjpe's mother-in-law) and vice president and authorized signatory Anuradha Purandare, against whom there were serious allegations, were granted bail by the HC earlier. The women were accused of being instrumental in accepting deposits and also of actively participating in the transaction of acquiring land at Fursungi in Pune. Besides, Vanjpe has not been named as an accused in the proceedings initiated by Enforcement Directorate, and his involvement was not noticed even in the investigation carried out by Serious Fraud Investigation Office in January last year, argued Nikam. Special public prosecutor Pravin Chavan opposed the bail plea contending Vanjpe was part of the hatching of the criminal conspiracy, which can be inferred from the available material. The HC noted that the only role attributed to Vanjpe was of "facilitating the transaction of acquiring land at Fursungi". The investigation has not reflected that the applicant has received any part of ill-gotten money. Some parcel of land at Fursungi though was purchased in the name of applicant's wife, and she was already ordered to be released by this court, it added. The HC asked Vanjpe to attend the concerned police station in the first week of January, deposit his passport with police, not influence witnesses or tamper with evidence. As per the prosecution, the directors and executive employees of DSK hatched a criminal conspiracy by promising heavy returns in the form of interest on deposits, then diverted the funds received as deposits from the account of the company to the account of individuals, like the wife of the applicant.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/dsk-scam-pune-based-builder-s-son-in-law-gets-bail-from-hc-101640356921173.html
24-12-2021||India||News updates from HT: Odisha restricts Christmas, NY celebrations due to Omicron and all the latest news||Here are today’s top news, analysis, and opinion. Know all about the latest news and other news updates from Hindustan Times.Odisha restricts Christmas, NY celebrations in view of Omicron. Details hereThe Odisha government on Friday announced that New Year and Christmas celebrations will be restricted because of the Omicron variant of the coronavirus, which has infected two people in the state till now. The new restrictions will be in effect from Saturday till January 2. Read moreRijiju visits Ludhiana court blast site, says Centre, Punjab working together for in-depth probeUnion law and justice minister Kiren Rijiju on Friday visited the Ludhiana district court complex that was rocked by a bomb blast a day earlier and said the Centre and the state are working together to ensure strong action against domestic and foreign elements trying to disrupt peace and harmony. Read moreEvicted families of Assam’s Dhalpur not illegal immigrants or land grabbers, says reportThree months after a violent eviction drive at Dhalpur in Darrang district of Assam, an independent study report on the incident has claimed that the evicted families were not illegal immigrants or land grabbers as alleged by the state’s BJP-led government. Read moreUS to lift travel ban on southern African countries: ReportThe United States said Friday it would next week lift the travel ban imposed on several southern African nations when the Omicron variant of Covid was first detected. Read moreGeeta Basra says ‘not the way you wanted it’ as Harbhajan Singh announces retirement from all forms of cricketActor Geeta Basra shared an emotional note as her husband, cricketer Harbhajan Singh announced retirement from all formats of the game. She said that he ‘had retired a long time ago’ mentally but was ‘waiting for the right moment’ to make a formal announcement. Read more'That knock was crucial, helped us win a Test match': Rahul opens up on India's middle-order selection for SA seriesOne of the biggest selection conundrum for India ahead of the anticipated three-match Test series against South Africa is the middle-order combination. Read moreBaby tries pizza for first time, her reaction is hilariously relatable. WatchPizza makes most people go gaga over it. The melting cheese and the different kinds of toppings that they have, simply melt in your mouth to give you one of the best tasting foods ever. Read more||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/news-updates-from-ht-odisha-restricts-christmas-ny-celebrations-due-to-omicron-101640359279587.html
24-12-2021||India||45-yr-old doctor, stabbed trying to protect hospital staffer, dies. She will live||KOLKATA: A 45-year-old doctor, who was stabbed trying to save a female worker from an attacker in a state-run hospital in Sikkim on December 14, died in a private hospital in north Bengal’s Siliguri early on Friday. Dr Sanjay Upreti, a cardiologist with the STNM Hospital at Gangtok, the Himalayan state’s capital, died at 3.40am on Friday, said Dr Rajeev Trehan, senior consultant, CTVC, Neoita Getwell Health Care Centre in Siliguri where Upreti was admitted.“He was admitted to the hospital on December 15 and all these days was on the ventilator. His condition was very critical as he had suffered multiple stab wounds. He suffered multi organ failure, kidney shutdown and was undergoing continuous renal replacement therapy (CRRT). His left leg had to be amputated,” Dr Trehan said.Kala Chettri, the female sanitation worker who was the primary target of the attacker, will survive. Her condition is stable and is improving, doctors said.Sikkim chief minister PS Tamang, who had condemned the murderous attack in the hospital, had arranged to airlift Dr Sanjay Upreti and Kala Chettri to Siliguri for better treatment at a private health facility on Dec 15.“Sikkim woke up to the heart-breaking news of Dr Upreti succumbing to his injuries and breathing his last this morning at Siliguri,” said Jacob Khaling Rai, political secretary to the Sikkim chief minister, announcing the death of the brave doctor, and a father of a 10-year-old boy.“The entire state mourns his demise as we have lost a brave son of the soil. We offer our heartfelt condolences to the entire family and hope God gives enough strength to bear this irreplaceable loss,” he said.BK Tamang, deputy inspector general and spokesperson of the Sikkim Police, said: “The attacker first stabbed Kala Chhetri, a safai karmachari, multiple times and then stabbed Sanjay Upreti, a doctor from the cardiology department.”Witnesses said it was lunchtime when the attacker appeared on the fourth floor’s corridor and suddenly attacked Kala Chettri with a knife. “She fell on the floor in a pool of blood. The man attacked the doctor when he tried to rescue the woman and ran away,” said a nurse who did not want to be identified.
24-12-2021||India||Evicted families of Assam’s Dhalpur not illegal immigrants or land grabbers, says report||Three months after a violent eviction drive at Dhalpur in Darrang district of Assam, an independent study report on the incident has claimed that the evicted families were not illegal immigrants or land grabbers as alleged by the state’s BJP-led government. The study ‘Dhalpur-The Truth Behind’ by Guwahati-based Centre for Minority Studies, Research and Development (CMSRD) was carried out by 14 members who stayed in the area for 15 days and interacted with 517 of the 963 evicted families. On September 23, 2 civilians were killed in clashes between evicted families and police and 18 other people including policemen were injured during the eviction drive. The state government had evicted the area to make way for an agricultural project for the local indigenous people. Since most of the evicted families were Bengali-speaking Muslims, it was alleged that they are illegal immigrants who had forcibly occupied government land as well as land of indigenous people and also settled on grazing land. The report by CMSRD however stated that of the 517 families surveyed 514 had their National Register of Citizens (NRC) legacy data preserved with them. Names of only 3 heads of families were found to be ‘doubtful voters’ (D-Voters). The NRC was updated in Assam to weed out illegal immigrants (people who entered the state after March 1971 when Bangladesh came into being). Of the 32 million applicants, 1.9 million were excluded from the final list released in August 2019. “Since all the surveyed families have legacy data prior to 1971 they can’t be termed as either suspected Bangladeshi or people of Bangladesh origin since Bangladesh came into existence on March 24, 1971,” said Zamser Ali, general secretary of CMSRD. The survey found that of the 3094 people in 517 families names of 1998 were included in the final NRC and the rest were excluded. The survey mentions that while all families have legacy data prior to 1971; some families got excluded from NRC because of “ambiguity of NRC officials”. The report also denied allegations of land grabbing by the evicted families. It stated that of the 517 families, 134 were living in inherited land, 34 families had occupied ‘abandoned land’ (low lying areas near the river), 62 families were landless and 129 families paid their land revenue for some time. The allegation of grabbing grazing land was also denied by the report by mentioning that the villages of Dhalpur which had been evicted and nearby villages were not marked as protected grazing reserve (PGR) or village grazing reserve (VGR) in the census reports of 1971, 1991 and 2011. “The narratives of BJP-RSS and its allied organisations is not only a distortion of facts about Dhalpur and its people, but a completely false and imaginary propaganda campaign,” the report stated. The report stated that the evicted families of Dhalpur had migrated to the area over the past several decades from Darrang, Kamrup, Goalpara and Nagaon districts due to erosion of their villages because of floods. It claimed that the evicted families who were residing in temporary shelters following the drive were not provided with basic amenities like food, drinking water and medicines. Following the Dhalpur eviction, the Assam government ordered a judicial inquiry on the violent eviction drive. Leader of opposition in state assembly Debabrata Sakia filed a petition in Gauhati High Court alleging use of excessive force by the state agencies during the drive. Last month, the Assam government in an affidavit filed in reply to the petition maintained that the evicted families were encroachers and refuted claims that they were victims of floods or erosion. “It’s wrong to blame the BJP or RSS for the eviction drive. It was carried out by the government with permission from the court. If CMSRD has any issues they should approach the court,” said BJP spokesperson Rupam Goswami.
24-12-2021||India||Curbs on unvaccinated in Haryana, night curfew in UP; big spike in Delhi, Mumbai||After the UP government brought back night curfew in the wake of the rise in the Covid-19 cases, the Haryana government on Friday said it is mulling to bring back night restrictions. Meanwhile, from January 1, unvaccinated people will not be allowed in public places, chief minister Manohar Lal Khattar said on Friday after chairing a Covi review meeting. The development comes as the Omicron situation in the country is rapidly worsening with the latest variant of SARS-CoV-2 spreading rapidly.Here are the top 10 developments:1. Uttar Pradesh chief minister Yogi Adityanath on Friday issued orders to initiate strict measures, including a statewide night curfew from December 25. The night curfew will be applicable from 11pm to 5am.2. Night curfew time in eight Gujarat cities extended by two hours. Curfew will be in force from 11pm to 5am in Ahmedabad, Vadodara, Surat, Rajkot, Bhavnagar, Jamnagar, Gandhinagar and Junagadh.3. Night curfew has already been imposed in Madhya Pradesh from 11pm to 5am.4. Delhi on Friday reported 180 new Covid cases, which is the highest single-day spike since June 16 this year.5. Mumbai on Friday reported 673 cases, which was again a big jump.6. The Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation on Friday made it compulsory for all international passengers arriving from Dubai (who are Mumbai residents) to undergo 7-day home quarantine. International passengers residing in other parts of Maharashtra won't be allowed to take public transport, the BMC said.7. Maharashtra on Friday detected 20 new cases of Omicron, breaching the 100-mark.8. A projection by IIT-Kanpur said India will see the peak of the third wave on February 3, 2022.9. The Union health ministry on Friday said Delta, not Omicron, is still the dominant variant in India.10. The world is witnessing the 4th surge of the pandemic, the Centre said, urging the states to not be lax.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/curbs-on-unvaccinated-in-haryana-night-curfew-in-up-big-spike-in-delhi-mumbai-101640357246716.html
24-12-2021||India||Year after accusing him of destabilising YSRCP govt, Jagan to meet CJI Ramana||Eight months after taking over as the Chief Justice of India (CJI), Justice N V Ramana is going to get a civic reception from the Andhra Pradesh government headed by chief minister Y S Jagan Mohan Reddy on his home turf on Saturday.According to an official spokesperson from the chief minister’s office, the CM will be hosting a hi-tea for the CJI at Tummalapalli Kalakshetram in Vijayawada at 5 pm on Saturday. “Jagan will be felicitating Justice Ramana on behalf of the state government,” the spokesperson said.On Sunday, too, the chief minister will be attending a get-together to be hosted by Governor Biswabhushan Harichandan at Raj Bhavan for the CJI.An official familiar with the development said Jagan might have a one-on-one meeting with the CJI after the civic reception on Saturday.This is the first time that the chief minister would be meeting Justice Ramana, against whom he had made severe allegations in his complaint to former CJI S A Bobde on October 6, 2020.In the complaint which was released to the media by principal advisor to the chief minister Ajeya Kallam on October 10, Jagan alleged that Justice Ramana, who was then a judge in the Supreme Court, was trying to destabilise the Andhra Pradesh government in collusion with Telugu Desam Party president and former chief minister N Chandrababu Naidu.The chief minister went on to allege that Justice Ramana was trying to influence the chief justice of the state high court Justice J K Maheshwari, including the roster of a few judges and cited instances of how matters important to the TDP had been allocated to a few select judges.He asked Justice Bobde to “consider initiating such steps as may be considered fit and proper to ensure that the state judiciary’s neutrality is maintained.”Andhra chief justice J K Maheshwari was transferred to Sikkim in December 2020, while the Supreme Court on March 24, 2021, dismissed the complaint of Jagan Mohan Reddy against Justice Ramana after giving it “due consideration” and said all the matters were dealt with under in-house procedure.The Jagan Reddy government also initiated a CID inquiry into an alleged land scam in the capital region of Amaravati, alleging involvement of Justice Ramana’s daughters in the scam. The case, however, was dismissed by the Supreme Court on July 19 this year.Justice Ramana, who took over as the CJI on April 24, came to the Telugu states on June 11 and was accorded a rousing reception in Hyderabad by the Telangana government led by chief minister K Chandrasekhar Rao.He also visited Tirupati to have a darshan of Lord Venkateshwara on Tirumala, but the Andhra Pradesh chief minister conveniently avoided calling on the CJI. Instead, he was received by two local MLAs and TTD Trust Board chairman Y V Subba Reddy.However, this time, the Jagan government decided to extend a cordial welcome to Justice Ramana, who landed in Andhra Pradesh on a three-day visit on Friday. A rousing welcome was arranged for the CJI on his arrival at his native village Ponnavaram in Krishna district in the morning.On behalf of the chief minister, his senior cabinet colleague Peddireddy Ramachandra Reddy, besides MLAs M Jaganmohan Rao and Vasantha Krishna Prasad and MLC M Arun Kumar received Justice Ramana and accompanied him to the village, where he was felicitated by the local people and legal fraternity.On Sunday, the CJI will attend a series of programmes in Vijayawada and Amaravati, including addressing a judicial officers’ conference at Acharya Nagarjuna University and high court bar association at Amaravati, before returning to Hyderabad.
24-12-2021||India||Odisha restricts Christmas, NY celebrations in view of Omicron. Details here||The Odisha government on Friday announced that New Year and Christmas celebrations will be restricted because of the Omicron variant of the coronavirus, which has infected two people in the state till now. The new restrictions will be in effect from Saturday till January 2.Also Read| Odisha reports first cases of Omicron as new variant infects over 200 in India“With a view to protecting the health of the public and preventing the spread of new variant of Covid-19, the government of Odisha in the exercise of powers conferred under section-2 of the Epidemic Disease Act, 1897; Disaster Management Act, 2005 and the Odisha Covid-19 Regulation, 2020 impose the following restrictions…”The new restrictions are as follows> The Odisha government said that Christmas celebrations will be limited to churches with a maximum of 50 people joining the mass by strictly following Covid-19 protocols and specific conditions imposed by district magistrates/local authorities/municipal commissioners while permitting such mass.> No celebrations apart from marriages are allowed across Odisha. However, receptions and ancillary functions are not permitted, the order said.> ”Zero night celebration, Welcome to New Year in hotels, clubs, restaurants, parks, convention halls, Kalyan Mandaps, etc. is completely banned across the state,” the order added.> Funeral rites are permitted in view of Covid-19 protocols.In view of the current Covid situation, Odisha Government has restricted the Christmas & New Year celebrations w.e.f 25th Dec to 2nd Jan. Social gatherings, rallies, orchestras, celebrations in hotels, clubs, restaurants, parks, etc will be banned across the State pic.twitter.com/oF43jI2SP2> There shall be strict vigilance on crowding and gathering during the above occasions.> The state government also said that no community feast is permitted and there is a ban on social gatherings, rallies, orchestras, dances and other cultural programmes.Odisha has so far reported 1,053,645 cases, 8,450 deaths, 1,043,391 recoveries and 1,751 active cases due to the coronavirus disease. On Friday, the state reported a low of 141 cases while two more patients died and 172 recuperated from Covid-19.The state reported its first two cases of the Omicron variant on Tuesday. The patients had travel history to Nigeria and Qatar respectively. Both of them are asymptomatic.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/odisha-restricts-christmas-ny-celebrations-in-view-of-omicron-details-here-101640348682617.html
24-12-2021||India||Maha legislature secretariat not to reply to SC notice on suspension of 12 BJP MLAs||Deputy Speaker of the Maharashtra Legislative Assembly, Narhari Zirwal, on Friday asked the legislature secretary not to respond to the Supreme Court's notice on the plea filed by 12 BJP MLAs challenging their one-year suspension. The 12 legislators were suspended on July 5 this year after they allegedly misbehaved with presiding officer Bhaskar Jadhav in the Speaker's chamber.Zirwal directed the government to apprise the apex court of the developments that led to the suspension of these BJP members. BJP leader Sudhir Mungantiwar wondered how the government can hold speaker's election by keeping 12 voters suspended. Leader of Opposition Devendra Fadnavis said the 12 legislators have applied to the speaker's office requesting their suspension be reconsidered. "I hope their suspension is revoked before the speaker's election next week," he said. Zirwal said that the SC notice was received by the legislature secretariat on December 21. The 12 suspended members are Sanjay Kute, Ashish Shelar, Abhimanyu Pawar, Girish Mahajan, Atul Bhatkhalkar, Parag Alavani, Harish Pimpale, Yogesh Sagar, Jay Kumar Rawal, Narayan Kuche, Ram Satpute and Bunty Bhangdia. On December 14, the Supreme Court had sought responses from the Maharashtra legislative assembly and the state government on the pleas filed by these MLAs, who have challenged their one-year suspension. The apex court had observed that the issues raised in the matter and arguments advanced by the advocates appearing for the petitioners as well as the state are "debatable" and "require deeper consideration". Talking to PTI, former principal secretary of the Maharashtra legislature, Anant Kalse, said the decision of not accepting any notice from the Supreme Court or high courts had been taken during a conference in 2007 that was chaired by the then Lok Sabha speaker Somnath Chatterjee. As per Article 212 of the Constitution, courts shall not inquire into the proceedings of the legislature and the validity of any proceedings in the legislature of a state shall not be called in question on the ground of any alleged irregularity of procedure, he said. The Article also mentions that no officer or member of the legislature, in whom powers are vested by or under constitution, for regulating procedure or conduct of business or for maintaining order in the legislature, shall be subject to jurisdiction of any court, he said. Last year, both the Houses of the Maharashtra legislature had passed resolutions that the presiding officers will not respond to any notice or summons issued by the Supreme Court in the privilege case against Republic Media Network's editor-in-chief Arnab Goswami.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/maha-legislature-secretariat-not-to-reply-to-sc-notice-on-suspension-of-12-bjp-mlas-101640341488389.html
24-12-2021||India||Ludhiana blast victim identified; former cop Gagandeep Singh who had links to drugs network||The man who was killed in the blast that took place inside Ludhiana district court on Thursday has been identified as Gagandeep Singh, a former cop. He was dismissed from the service in 2019 and spent two years in jail. He was released in the month of September. Gagandeep Singh had drug links, people familiar with the development said. On Thursday, a bomb went off near the washroom on the second floor of the district court complex killing one person and injuring six others. With all political leaders reaching Ludhiana following the incident, the explosion posed a serious security challenge in front of the state government. According to initial reports, police suspected that the man killed in the explosion had something to do with it. Either he was carrying the explosive device or was trying to assemble, cops said earlier.The blast prompted Union home secretary Ajay Bhalla to hold a high-level meeting on the security situation in the country on Friday. Intelligence Bureau Director Arvind Kumar, Central Reserve Police Force (CRPF) and National Investigation Agency (NIA) Chief Kuldeep Singh and Border Security Force (BSF) Director General Pankaj Singh were among those present at the meeting that lasted for nearly an hour in the Home Ministry. Senior officials of NIA and Home Ministry were also present in the meeting.Union law and justice minister Kiren Rijiju visited the Ludhiana district court on Friday and said the main purpose of his visit was to assure the people of Ludhiana as well as Punjab that by launching a coordinated effort with the state government, this incident will be thoroughly probed.
24-12-2021||India||Doctors reveal how they have treated Omicron patients in Delhi||Delhi's LNJP Hospital has so far got 40 cases of Omicron variant and 19 out of them have already been discharged. Doctors of LNJP said like the global cases, the cases that they got at LNJP were majorly asymptomatic with a sore throat, low-grade fever and body ache. For treatment, multivitamins and paracetamol were given. "We didn't feel the need to give them any other medicine," a senior doctor of the hospital said.Omicron, the latest variant of SARS-CoV-2 identified first in South Africa, is believed to be spreading faster than Delta, though it is causing less severe illness among patients. Unlike the previous variants, Omicron is multiplying in the throat of the patients without affecting the lungs. Hence, Omicron cases are not requiring any other treatment, doctors have said.Delhi's 1st Omicron patient talks about symptoms, treatment, past Covid caseDelhi's first Omicron patient, who has recently recovered, also said he had no symptoms and could not believe when he tested Covid positive also because he contracted Covid earlier. The 37-year-old businessman from Rohini said he had no symptoms and was initially in home isolation only.According to data from the Union health ministry, Delhi has recorded 67 Omicron cases so far, of which 23 have been discharged.Ahead of Christmas and New Year festivities, the Centre has alerted all states and Union territories to exercise utmost caution as Omicron is spreading fast. As of Friday, there are 358 Omicron cases in India. Of the 183 Omicron cases analysed so far, 91 per cent were fully vaccinated with three having booster shots, 70 per cent were asymptomatic, and 61 per cent were males, the government said.Though Omicron is not causing severe diseases, it is not time to loosen the guard, the health ministry said on Friday with a note of warning that the world is witnessing the 4th surge of the pandemic.(With PTI Inputs)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/doctors-reveal-how-they-have-treated-omicron-patients-in-delhi-101640345233966.html
24-12-2021||India||2 more RSS workers held for SDPI leader’s murder in Kerala||The special investigation team (SIT) on Friday arrested two workers of the Rashtriya Swayamsevak Sangh (RSS) in connection with the murder of the state secretary of the Social Democratic Party of India, the political wing of the Popular Front of India, K S Shan on Saturday. The arrested men have been identified as K T Suresh, boudhik pramukh of Chalakudy in Thrissur district and another worker M Umesh from Aluva in Ernakulam. The SIT said both were arrested for helping the accused to escape and for destroying evidence. SDPI leader Shan (38) and BJP OBC Morcha leader Renjith Sreenivasan (44) were murdered within a span of 12 hours in a radius of 10 km in Alappuzha on Saturday and Sunday sending shockwaves through the state. The police later claimed that both were retaliatory killings. Additional Director General of Police Vijay Sakhre said none of those arrested in both cases were directly involved in the killings but they had given logistic support to the assailants. “Both were well planned and executed killings. We have identified all those who were directly involved in the crime. Our teams are tracking them in neighbouring states,” he said. Five people were arrested in connection with BJP leader’s murder and four in SDPI leader’s killing. The delay in arresting those who directly participated in the gruesome killings invited enough criticism to the police. The BJP has sought a central agency probe but the PFI said its workers were harassed and houses were raided by the police to satisfy Sangh Parivar outfits. “We are not satisfied with the ongoing probe. In Alappuzha ruling CPI(M) and SDPI are thick friends and they help each other. We want a central agency probe into recent killings of party leaders,” said party leader Sandeep Warrier adding in three months three RSS-BJP leaders were hacked to death. Meanwhile police have started a crackdown on a section of social media users who were spreading fake news and false information to foment trouble. Many messages and post inciting communal trouble were surfaced after the twin murders. “The admins of social media groups who permit discussion intended to incite communal hatred will be booked. The cyber wing of the police given strict instructions to book such people,” said state police chief Anil Kant in a statement. The DGP has also asked the special branch to prepare a list of criminal elements and history sheeter belonging to both camps. Police said 35 cases have been filed across the state and two persons arrested for spreading communal campaign.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/2-more-rss-workers-held-for-sdpi-leader-s-murder-in-kerala-101640350700032.html
24-12-2021||India||I will lead, says Uttarakhand’s Harish Rawat after 4-hour Congress meeting||NEW DELHI: The Harish Rawat rebellion in Uttarakhand has been quelled by the Congress leadership, at least for now, according to those aware of details.The former chief minister and head of the campaign committee of Uttarakhand emerged from the almost four-hour long meeting looking satisfied and with this statement of content, “I will lead as the campaign committee chairman and everyone will support me.”In other words, he said, the elections in Uttarakhand will be fought under him. However, the party stopped short of announcing him as the party’s chief ministerial candidate.“After elections, the legislature party will sit and decide who will lead them. In Uttarakhand, we will follow that,” he said. However, he clarified that he was no longer thinking of retirement or quitting the party, he said, “Kadam, kadam badhaye ja, Congress ke geet gaye ja (Let’s move forward, let’s sing for the Congress party).”Also Read: Is Harish Rawat reading from Sidhu’s Punjab playbook in Uttarakhand?This was in sharp contrast to Harish Rawat’s words on Wednesday on Twitter where he said, “Isn’t it strange, one has to swim in the sea in the form of forthcoming electoral battle... instead of cooperation, the organisational structure at most places is turning its face away or is playing a negative role... There are many crocodiles... On whose directions one has to swim, their nominees are tying my hands and feet.” His Twitter statement went on to say that he was contemplating retirement.The meeting, which was primarily chaired by organisational general secretary KC Venugopal and had Rahul Gandhi dropping in towards the end, tried to assuage Rawat’s feelings of being left out of the decision-making process.“Even though he is the head of the campaign committee, he felt that he wasn’t getting his way. So we tried to speak to both sides and get them to listen to each other, to keep the other side in the loop,” said a person who attended the meeting, on condition of anonymity.The other attendees to the meeting which comes just two months before the state elections included the AICC in-charge of the state, Devendra Yadav, the state Congress chief Ganesh Godiyal and legislature party leader Pritam Singh.“There is no doubt that he is the face of the Congress in the state but the Congress president will decide who will be chief minister. Harish Rawat is happy with that,” said a second leader who is aware of the details.The Congress is looking to dislodge the BJP from power in the hill state, which Rawat served as chief minister between 2014 and 2017. The BJP is roiled by troubles of its own, and has changed its chief minister thrice in the last year. In the 70-member assembly, the BJP has 55 members and the Congress has 12.There is a section of the party which feels that at 73, Harish Rawat should step aside and make way for a new leadership. Gandhi is said to be quite keen on an alternative face as he picked in Punjab, a Dalit leader. It is significant that their Dalit face Yashpal Arya. who recently rejoined the Congress from the BJP, also attended the meeting on Friday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/i-will-lead-says-uttarakhand-s-harish-rawat-after-4-hour-congress-meeting-101640349079861.html
24-12-2021||India||Pakistani terror groups continue to target Kashmir, data reveals how||A total of 24 Pakistani terrorists have been killed in the last eight months in various sectors of Jammu and Kashmir, clearly showing that Pakistan's support to terrorism in the Union territory continues unabated. As per the latest records, eight of them have been killed in the Jammu zone and 16 have been killed in the Kashmir Zone. Details of these slain terrorists reveal that they are all from Pakistan.These terrorists have been killed in encounters in Srinagar, Poonch, Pulwama, Rajouri, Anantnag, Baramulla and most of them are either from Lashkar or from Jaish. Some are unidentified.Centre ready for hard options against targeted minority killings in ValleyThe details of these terrorists primarily prove three things: One, Pakistan's support to terrorism despite Pakistan PM Imran Khan's tall claims on international platforms continues; second, there is continued infiltration all across the Line of Control in both Kashmir and Jammu; third, the main groups operating are Lashkar and Jaish. These Pakistan-based groups have sought cover by posing as indigenous Kashmiri groups, continuing the targeting of Kashmir.On December 19, in a joint operation of J&K Police, 24 Rashtriya Rifles and CRPF, a terrorist named Saifulla alias Abhu Khalid alias Shawaz was killed. He was a resident of Pakistan's Karachi and was active in the Valley since 2016. Saifulla, as per police records, had a history of terror cases, including the killing of civilians in teh Valley. After infiltrating in 2016, he was active in the general area of Harwan, Kashmir IGP said. Such details of the terrorists killed between May and December go on to reveal that all of them have allegiance to Pakistan-based terror groups.The Union home ministry has recently informed the Rajya Sabha in the recently concluded winter session of Parliament that the security situation in the Valley has improved significantly since August 2019. The number of terror incidents has come down from 417 in 2018 to 203 (up to November 30) in 2021 and theestimated net infiltration has come down from 143 in 2018 to 28 (till October 31) in 2021."The government has instituted robust security and intelligence grid along with proactive operations against terrorists. Therefore, the security situation in Jammu and Kashmir has improved significantly since August 2019," Union minister of state for home Nityanand Rai said replying to a written question. There were 417 terrorist incidents in Jammu and Kashmir in 2018, 255 in 2019, 244 in 2020 and 203 till November 30 in 2021.
24-12-2021||India||India's Omicron count at 358; 183 such cases analysed, says health ministry||The Union health ministry said on Friday that 17 states and Union Territories (UTs) in India have reported cases of the Omicron variant of the coronavirus, which was first detected in South Africa in November.Addressing a press briefing on the Covid-19 situation, Union health secretary Rajesh Bhushan said, "There are 358 cases of Omicron in total and out of these, 114 have recovered.”Bhushan said an analysis of 183 Omicron cases was done which showed that 121 such cases had a foreign travel history.Also Read| 'World is witnessing 4th surge': Centre's warning as Omicron tally rises to 358“Forty-four cases out of the 183 Omicron cases analysed had no foreign travel history, but the majority of them were contacts of foreign travellers. The travel history of the remaining 18 cases is not known,” Bhushan said.He added that 61% of the Omicron cases analysed were male and 39% were females.“About the vaccination status, 87 patients were fully vaccinated and out of these, three were also inoculated with the booster dose. Seven patients were unvaccinated and two were partially vaccinated and 16 were ineligible to take the jab. The vaccination status of 73 patients is unknown," the Union health secretary added during Friday's briefing.The health ministry has been holding regular discussions with states and UTs to monitor the emerging concerns of Omicron, Rajesh Bhushan also said.Also Read| PM Modi advises caution on OmicronA day before the health ministry's briefing, Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Thursday chaired a review meeting on the Covid-19 pandemic situation and said that people have to be alert and cautious because of the new variant.Modi ordered officials to make sure that health systems in states, starting from the district level, are strengthened to meet any challenges posed by Omicron.Of the 358 cases of the variant in the country, Maharashtra is leading with 88 cases, followed by Delhi with 67 and Telangana with 38. The lowest number of cases has been reported at Chandigarh, Ladakh and Uttarakhand- all at one each.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/indias-omicron-count-at-358-183-such-cases-analysed-says-health-ministry-101640342838737.html
24-12-2021||India||Multi-city probes, over 50 CCTV clips: Cops trace missing Noida woman in Surat||Searches in several cities across multiple states, electronic surveillance and analysis of more than 50 CCTV footage were what the Noida Police had to resort to for tracing and bringing back home a woman, went missing over a week ago.The 21-year-old woman, who lived with her sister and her husband in Sector 50 here, was tracked in Surat, Gujarat where she was found working at a beauty parlour, police officials said. “She had left home after a fight with her sister and brother-in-law. She told police that she was angry and had not informed them where she was going,” a police spokesperson said. A 'missing' complaint was lodged at the local Sector 49 police station after which searches were conducted at several places within and outside Noida under the supervision of Inspector Vinod Kumar Singh, the official said. “Police teams looked for the woman at probable locations including Ghaziabad, Moradabad, Chandigarh, Ambala and several other nearby cities and towns.Over 50 CCTV footage were analysed and electronic surveillance was also used to get a clue about the woman's whereabouts,” the spokesperson said. Ultimately, police teams investigating the case got a lead that she could be present in Surat, Gujarat, prompting the deployment of officials to the state. “On Thursday, the woman was tracked down in Surat. She had started working at a parlour there but has been brought back and reunited with her family,” the police official said. The issue of the woman going missing from Noida had created a buzz among locals here, with residents' groups demanding prompt action by the police. The Noida Federation of Apartment Owners Associations (NOFAA) and the Gautam Buddh Nagar District Development Residents Welfare Association (DD RWA) hailed the police work in the case.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/multicity-probes-over-50-cctv-clips-cops-trace-missing-noida-woman-in-surat-101640346190351.html
24-12-2021||India||First in country, ECI to increase voting time by 1hr in U’khand due to terrain||DEHRADUN: Chief Election Commissioner Sushil Chandra on Friday said the polling time will be enhanced by an hour for assembly elections in Uttarakhand considering the state’s difficult terrain. He said it will be the first such move in the country as the terrain in many areas of the state makes it difficult for the voters to reach polling booths. Chandra said the polling will be held from 8am to 6pm in Uttarakhand, where elections are due early next year.He cited the Covid-19 pandemic and added the Election Commission of India (ECI) has identified 601 grounds and 277 buildings across the state where election meetings can be held to ensure social distancing is maintained. “Their details would soon be put online so that the candidates can book them... The venues would be given on the first come first serve basis.”Chandra said candidates facing criminal cases will have to get their details publicized in the media. “...the onus will also be on the political parties to do the same exercise for their candidates having criminal backgrounds. They will have to inform the voters the reason behind fielding candidates with criminal backgrounds so that they know what sort of candidates are contesting,” said Chandra.The Supreme Court in February 2020 mandated political parties to have the criminal history of their candidates published along with the reasons for fielding people facing serious charges. The information has to be published within 48 hours of the candidate selection or under a fortnight before the beginning of the filing of nominations.Chandra said social media will be strictly monitored to check posts related to hate speech so that proper action can be taken. He added the commission will also ensure liquor, drugs, or freebies are not offered to the voters to influence them. “The commission has discussed the issue with all the enforcement agencies concerned.”Chandra said observers will also be appointed to monitor the expenditure of candidates on poll campaigns. He added the commission has reduced the capacity of voters at a polling booth to 1,200 from 1,500.“This has been done to ensure proper social distancing during the voting. ...ECI will set up 623 more polling booths taking the total polling booths in the state to 11,447.” He said there are over 8.1 million voters in the state. “On average, there would be over 700 voters for each polling booth.”Chandra said women will manage 100 polling booths and differently able people five. He added 66,648 voters in the state are differently-abled, 143,000 above 80, and 93,935 servicemen. “...80 plus would be given a facility to vote through ballot paper at their homes...The political parties will be informed about it and proper videography will be done to ensure the secrecy and transparency of the process. Similarly, servicemen would also be able to vote through ballots,” said Chandra, who was on a two-day visit to Uttarakhand. Election commissioners Rajiv Kumar and Anoop Chandra Pandey accompanied Chandra.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/first-in-country-eci-to-increase-voting-time-by-1-hour-in-uttarakhand-due-to-terrain-101640346381334.html
24-12-2021||India||Former Goa lawmaker quits TMC months after joining it||Former lawmaker Lavoo Mamledar on Friday quit the Trinamool Congress (TMC) two months after joining it, accusing the party of trying to divide Goans on religious lines by aligning with the Maharashtrawadi Gomantak Party (MGP). He criticised the Indian Political Action Committee (I-PAC), which is managing the Goa elections for TMC, for fooling the people.In a letter to TMC leader Mamata Banerjee, Mamledar wrote he thought her party is secular. “...(It) has tried to divide Goans on the basis of religion by aligning with (MGP leader) Sudin Dhavalikar.” Mamledar said the TMC’s attempt “to polarise” Hindu and Catholic voters by aligning with MGP is “purely communal in nature”. “We do not want to continue with a party which is trying to divide Goans.” He added they will not allow TMC and I-PAC to break Goa’s secular ethos.Mamledar, a former MGP lawmaker from 2012 and 2017, was among the first to join the TMC in Goa after Banerjee inducted former Goa chief minister Luizinho Faleiro into her party. He quit the MGP before joining TMC. Mamledar said TMC has not understood Goa and Goans. “...the company which you have hired for your campaign in Goa (I-PAC) is fooling Goans and has not understood the pulse of Goans.”He criticised TMC’s promise to introduce the Griha Laxmi Scheme under which the woman head of a household will get ₹5,000 monthly if the party is voted to power. He said when the TMC government has failed to uplift women in West Bengal, they do not think it would do any good to them in Goa.TMC has begun a registration drive for the scheme and has asked women to sign up for the scheme. It has claimed to have received 100,000 registrations so far. Mamledar said the registrations were being done to collect dataPolls in Goa are due early next year along with Punjab, Uttar Pradesh, Uttarakhand, and Manipur.TMC’s move to contest polls in Goa as part of its efforts to make inroads into other states following its return to power in West Bengal for a third time this summer has soured its ties with Congress. There have been a series of defections from Congress to TMC over the last few months.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/former-goa-lawmaker-quits-tmc-months-after-joining-it-101640346020426.html
24-12-2021||India||2021 in numbers: Delhi’s air was better than usual; weather and lockdown helped||NEW DELHI: The lockdown and social distancing measures put in place when Covid-19 infections first started spreading in India improved air quality. In Delhi - the national capital is among India’s most polluted cities - the average Air Quality Index (AQI) improved by 48% in April 2020 compared to April 2019.
24-12-2021||India||News updates from HT: Om Birla concerned over pre-planned disruptions in Parliament and all the latest news||Here are today’s top news, analysis, and opinion. Know all about the latest news and other news updates from Hindustan Times.Om Birla expresses concern over ruckus in Parliament, assembliesLok Sabha Speaker Om Birla on Friday expressed concern over ruckus and pre-planned disruptions during the Parliament and state assemblies’ proceedings. Read MoreWill EC postpone UP election? Decision after review next week, says poll bodyA day after the Allahabad high court urged the Election Commission of India (ECI) to immediately postpone the upcoming legislative assembly polls in Uttar Pradesh by as much as two months citing the coronavirus pandemic, the poll panel said it will take an “appropriate decision”. Read MoreOwaisi defends 'when Modi-Yogi retire' video; says, 'Indeed who will save cops?Hyderabad MP Asaduddin Owaisi on Friday reacted to his clip going viral on social media and said it was aimed at distracting the attention from 'Haridwar Genocial Meet'. "A clipped 1-minute video is being circulated from 45-minute speech I gave in Kanpur," Owaisi said. Read MoreShilpa Shetty is ready for the holidays in a shimmery white gownShilpa Shetty is ready for the festive season. It is that time of the year again – Christmas and New Year celebrations are around the corner and the celebrities of the tinsel town have already started preparing for their festivities. Read MoreDon’t Look Up movie review: Leonardo DiCaprio and Jennifer Lawrence headline a superb satire on climate changeWithin a span of two days, we have two big-budget Hollywood releases that tell us humanity is doomed. Both The Matrix Resurrections, released on December 22, and Adam McKay’s Don’t Look Up, released on Friday on Netflix. Read MoreHarbhajan Singh retires from all cricket: 'All good things come to an end' Veteran spinner Harbhajan Singh, the first Indian bowler to claim a Test hat-trick, has announced his retirement from all forms of cricket. Read More||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/news-updates-from-ht-om-birla-concerned-over-pre-planned-disruptions-in-parliament-and-all-the-latest-news-101640342133911.html
24-12-2021||India||'World is witnessing 4th surge': Centre's warning as Omicron tally rises to 358||Union health ministry on Friday issued a fresh warning against Covid-19 pandemic in the wake of the rise in Omicron cases, the newest variant of SARS-CoV-2. On December 23, the world recorded over 9 lakh Covid-19 cases, which indicates a fresh wave of the pandemic, health secretary Rajesh Bhushan said on Friday during the ministry's weekly press briefing.Here are 10 points the health ministry said:1. The world is witnessing the 4th surge of the pandemic. On December 23, over 9 lakh Covid cases have been recorded all over the world.2. Compared with Europe, North America and Africa, Asia is witnessing a decline in the number of fresh cases, but we have to be on guard, Rajesh Bhushan said.Omicron tracker: State-wise status of new variant cases in India3. India has been recording around 7,000 Covid cases every day. Since the past 4 weeks, India's daily case tally fell below 10,0004. India has seen two surges of the pandemic so far: one in September 2020 and the second in May 2021.5. At present, India's cases are on the decline: Global case positivity rate is more than 6% while India's case positivity rate is 5.3%, though there are regional variations.6. Cause of concern is the case positivity rate in Kerala and Mizoram.7. Around 20 districts in the country are reporting a weekly positivity between 5 and 10%8. 108 countries have reported over 1 lakh Omicron cases and there have been 26 deaths. In India, there are 358 Omicron cases in 17 states and UTs. 114 recovery has been reported.9. Out of 183 cases analysed in India, 121 had foreign travel history, 44 had no foreign travel history but they came in contact with people with foreign travel history. Details of 18 are unknown. Out of these 183 cases, 87 were fully vaccinated, including 3 who received three doses of vaccine. 7 were unvaccinated and 2 were partially vaccinated, the Centre said.10. Delta continues to be the dominant strain in India, including the recently identified clusters, ICMR DG Dr Balram Bhargava said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/world-is-witnessing-the-4th-surge-centre-s-fresh-warning-amid-rise-in-omicron-101640342781731.html
24-12-2021||India||Former Gorkha Janmukti Morcha leader Binoy Tamang joins Trinamool Congress||Former Gorkha Jan Mukti Morcha (GJM) leader Binoy Tamang finally put to rest speculation about the “third innings” of his political career when he joined the Trinamool Congress in Kolkata on Friday afternoon. On Friday, Tamang, along with another former GJM leader Rohit Sharma, who was the two-time GJM MLA from Kurseong, joined the TMC in the presence of senior party leaders Bratya Basu and Moloy Ghatak. “This is the third innings of my politics. This is my fight against politics of lies and deceit played by some people against the common masses. I hope you all will support me in this new journey to serve the people,” Tamang said. In 2017, during the agitation in Darjeeling Hills for a separate state of Gorkhaland, Tamang fell out with Bimal Gurung, his party colleague and formed a new faction. In July, the two factions merged and Bimal Gurung now heads the party. Tamang was made the chairman of the board of administrators in the semi-autonomous Gorkhaland Territorial Administration by the state government after he and another senior GJM leader Anit Thapa joined hands with the government and foiled the Gorkhaland movement in 2017. “I am grateful to chief minister Mamata Banerjee, national general secretary of the party Abhisekh Banerjee and other senior party leaders for trusting me and giving me this opportunity to work in regional and national politics,” he added. “Our third innings will now work for the people by not only joining hands with the AITC, but by being an integral part of the party,” he added. “We extend a very warm welcome to Shri Binay Tamang and Shri Rohit Sharma who joined us today in the presence of Shri @basu_bratya and Shri @GhatakMoloy. Together, we will work towards the welfare of all people residing in the North Bengal region!” TMC tweeted.Election to the 45-member GTA is likely to be held early next year. The last election to the semi-autonomous council was held in 2012. Tamang’s joining the TMC comes at a time when a section of BJP leaders have renewed the demand for Gorkhaland state and also sought to carve out north Bengal as a centrally-administered Union territory, citing disparity in development and injustice to the people of the region. Most of the political parties in the hills are divided over supporting the BJP and the TMC. 
24-12-2021||India||Ludhiana blast: Court running as per routine, security tightened, say police||A day after an explosion occurred on the premises of the Ludhiana district court, police said on Friday that security has been tightened around the court complex and the court is running as per routine.Speaking to news agency ANI, BS Randhawa, the additional DCP of Ludhiana Police said, “The court is running as per the routine, but security is strengthened. Various teams have arrived for the investigation.”Also Read| Ludhiana court blast eyewitnesses recount horrorOne man died while six others were injured after the explosion that took place inside the washroom on the second floor of the district court at around 12.22pm on Thursday. One of the walls of the court complex was damaged and the windows of vehicles parked inside the premises were shattered.The Ludhiana Police told ANI on Friday that preliminary investigation into the incident revealed that the deceased is believed to have brought the explosives to the court complex.Among the injured, five are in stable condition but the sixth person, a woman, has sustained severe head injuries, the Punjab government said on Friday, adding she is currently out of danger.The injured have been admitted to the DMC Hospital, Civil hospital in Ludhiana, CMC hospital and GTB hospital.Also Read| Ludhiana court complex blast: Nurses suspend strike to treat two injuredA First Information Report (FIR) has been filed under relevant sections of the Indian Penal Code, Explosive Substance Act, Prevention of Damage to Public Property Act and Unlawful Activities (Prevention) Act (UAPA).Meanwhile, the state government has sought the Centre's help to crack the explosion case. The Centre has dispatched teams to Punjab to investigate the case.Chief minister Charanjit Singh Channi has denied any intelligence failure by saying that his government is alert.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/ludhiana-blast-court-running-as-per-routine-security-tightened-say-police-101640338360305.html
24-12-2021||India||Girl found dead in Rajasthan's Bundi; rape, murder suspected||Bloodstained body of a girl with fatal injuries on her neck and head was recovered from a forest in Bundi district, police said on Friday.Two people, including a minor, have been arrested, Bundi Superintendent of Police Jai Yadav told PTI. He said the involvement of a third accused cannot be ruled out.The 15-year-old tribal girl, with two of her friends, had taken out their goats for grazing on Thursday afternoon.On their return in the evening, the two girls told the victim's parents that she had stopped in between to relieve herself. However, as she did not return for long, they moved ahead.The girl's parents and relatives then launched a search, only to find her naked body, police said.Prima facie, it appears that the girl was raped and then killed, a police officer said.The two accused have been booked under Section 302 (murder), 201 (causing disappearance of evidence of offence) and 376(rape) of the Indian Penal Code and Protection of Children from Sexual Offences (POCSO) Act, the officer said.The girl's body has been handed over to her family members after postmortem, he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/girl-found-dead-in-rajasthan-s-bundi-rape-murder-suspected-101640338090423.html
24-12-2021||India||Meeting with Rahul Gandhi placates Harish Rawat; will lead election campaign in Uttarakhand||Former Uttarakhand chief minister Harish Rawat, who recently expressed his displeasure with the Congress, on Friday, met Rahul Gandhi in New Delhi and said he will be leading the Congress campaign in the poll-bound state. On being asked that whether this means that Rawat will be the chief ministerial face of Uttarakhand, he said, "Now, don't distort this." The Congress legislative body will decide the chief ministerial face, Harish Rawat said. On Wednesday, Harish Rawat posted some cryptic tweets signalling another crisis for the Congress after Punjab as Rawat wrote that thought that probably it is the time to rest has crossed his mind, as he expressed anguish over the increasing factionalism in the state unit of the party. "Isn't it strange, one has to swim in the sea in the form of the forthcoming electoral battle, instead of cooperation, the organisational structure at most places is turning its face away or is playing a negative role," Rawat said. "There are many crocodiles of the ruling dispensation. On whose directions one has to swim, their nominees are tying my hands and feet," Rawat added.Manish Tewari speaks out on Harish Rawat issue, says ‘First Assam, then Punjab’The emotions expressed in those tweets were strong enough to trigger speculation that Harish Rawat, a troubleshooter of the Congress, was leaving the party ahead of the election. Removal of his posters in the recent Congress rally in Dehradun, attended by Rahul Gandhi, was believed to have disillusioned Rawat, among some other factors.To add fuel to such speculations, Harish Rawat even stayed away from offering a clarification for his tweets and urged people to enjoy his tweets. However, Congress's go-to person for crisis in any other state never hinted that he will be leaving the Congress for any other political party. After receiving the call from New Delhi, Rawat on Thursday said, "Kadam kadam badhae jaa, Congress ke geet gae jaa. Zingadi hai Uttarakhand ke vaaste, Uttarakhand par lutae jaa (Keep on marching forward, sing praises of the Congress, life is for Uttarkhand, devote it to Uttarakhand)"After meeting Rahul Gandhi, he reiterated and said, "Kadam, kadam badhaye ja, Congress ke geet gaye ja...I will be the face of election campaigning in Uttarakhand."||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/meeting-with-rahul-resolves-uttarakhand-crisis-harish-rawat-to-lead-election-campaign-101640338684674.html
24-12-2021||India||Beyond the News | Is Rawat reading from Sidhu’s Punjab playbook in Uttarakhand?||NEW DELHI: Poll-bound Uttarakhand is the new epicentre of tremors in the earthquake-prone Congress. Rocking the party’s applecart there is former chief minister Harish Rawat, the AICC’s erstwhile point person in Punjab who let Navjot Sidhu swashbuckle his way against Captain Amarinder Singh. The result: Singh has floated his own party and joined the BJP for the upcoming elections.
24-12-2021||India||Owaisi defends 'when Modi-Yogi retire' video; says, 'Indeed who will save cops?'||Hyderabad MP Asaduddin Owaisi on Friday reacted to his clip going viral on social media and said it was aimed at distracting the attention from 'Haridwar Genocial Meet'. "A clipped 1-minute video is being circulated from 45-minute speech I gave in Kanpur," Owaisi said. Several BJP leaders shared the video on Friday amid heat over alleged hate speeches by Hindu leaders in a three-day religious conclave in Haridwar, held recently. An FIR has been filed in Uttarakhand after the videos of those provocative speeches went viral on Thursday. Haridwar hate speech: Will not tolerate such incidents, says police chiefOwaisi was one of the leaders to move for action against the Haridwar speeches. The AIMIM president had instructed the party's Uttarakhand chief to file a police complaint against Haridwar Assembly. "It’s a clear case of incitement to genocide. Our team has attempted to file it today but officers in Roorkee were unavailable due to other engagements. If strict action isn’t taken, then we’ll launch a state-wide agitation demanding arrest and exemplary punishment. The calls for genocide and ethnic cleansing against Muslims are the culmination of 60 yrs of dehumanising speech by Sangh Parivar against Muslims and Christians," Owaisi tweeted. He also observed that most speakers at the event were repeat offenders and close with 'powers that be'. 'Allah will destroy you': BJP leaders tweet Owaisi's speech threatening U.P policeIn order to distract from #HaridwarGenocidalMeet, a clipped 1 min video is being circulated from 45 min speech I gave in Kanpur. I’ll set the record straight:1. I did not incite violence or give threats. I talked about POLICE ATROCITIES Here’s the full video in TWO PARTS [Cont] pic.twitter.com/buZWZmVNLaSoon after his tweet storm, BJP leaders found out his video in which he could be heard saying, "I want to tell the police. Remember this. Yogi will not be the Chief Minister forever. Modi will not remain the Prime Minister forever. We Muslims are silent because of the times, but remember we will not forget the injustice. We will remember your injustice. Allah, by his powers, will destroy you, Inshallah. We will remember.""When Yogi will return to his mutt when PM Modi will go to the hills, who will save you?" Owaisi said.As BJP leaders questioned whether action will be taken against Owaisi like in the case of the Haridwar meet, in a thread of tweets, Owaisi said he did not incite violence or give threats and he was only talking about police atrocities."It’s an essential part of my faith to believe that Allah does not allow injustice. He punishes oppressors. We are taught the lesson of Firaun, the lesson of Namrud, the lesson of Yazid. Assuring people of Allah’s justice gives hope. We remember that Allah is with oppressed. I said we’ll remember these police atrocities. Is this objectionable? Why is it offensive to remember how police have treated Muslims in UP? We cannot forget the oppression that was meted out to Anas, Suleiman, Asif, Faisal, Altaf, Akhlaq, Qasim, and hundreds of others?" Owaisi tweeted."I asked cops: who will come to save them when Modi-Yogi retire? Indeed, who will? Do they think they’ve lifetime immunity," Owaisi said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/owaisi-defends-when-modi-yogi-retire-video-says-indeed-who-will-save-cops-101640336523373.html
24-12-2021||India||After Allahabad HC nudge, will EC postpone UP election? Decision after review next week, says poll body||A day after the Allahabad high court urged the Election Commission of India (ECI) to immediately postpone the upcoming legislative assembly polls in Uttar Pradesh by as much as two months citing the coronavirus pandemic, the poll panel said it will take an “appropriate decision”.“Next week we will go to Uttar Pradesh, review the situation there, and then take an appropriate decision,” the ANI news agency quoted Chief Election Commissioner (CEC) Sushil Chandra as saying.His remarks were in response to the Allahabad high court pointing out growing concerns over the Omicron variant of the coronavirus, which is said to be highly transmissible and capable of undergoing a frequent and unusually large number of mutations.The high court also urged Prime Minister Narendra Modi and the Election Commission to immediately ban rallies and public meetings of political parties in the state.India is set to hold assembly elections in five states, including the most populous province Uttar Pradesh, early next year. The state is considered a political bellwether ahead of general elections in 2024.As elections draw closer, political parties are mobilising hundreds of thousands of people at rallies and meetings where it is impossible to follow pandemic protocols, the high court observed. If the trend is not checked, the country could witness horrific scenes that played out earlier this year during the second wave, it added.“If rallies are not stopped, the results will be worse than the second wave,” said high court justice Shekhar Yadav, adding, “Jaan hai toh Jahaan hai (If you live, only then will you have the world).”Traditionally, the judiciary stays away from directing independent bodies like the poll panel or the executive on the timing of elections. However, the comments came as Justice Shekhar Kumar Yadav observed his crowded room and the 400 cases lined up for hearing in a single day, according to observations posted on the court website.India’s brutal second wave of the coronavirus pandemic crippled the country’s healthcare system and overwhelmed burial grounds and crematoriums in April and May this year. However, concerns are once again rising now over the highly infectious Omicron strain, which has been reported across as many as 17 states and Union territories across the country.India's nationwide tally of Omicron cases has climbed to 358, according to a Covid-19 brief issued by the Centre on Friday morning. Maharashtra, with 88 cases of the highly infectious new strain, leads the country-wide count and is closely followed by Delhi (67), Telangana (38), Tamil Nadu (34), and Karnataka (31).||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/after-allahabad-hc-nudge-will-ec-postpone-up-election-decision-after-review-next-week-says-poll-body-101640331095584.html
24-12-2021||India||Sri Lankan PM Rajapaksa offers prayers at Tirupati||Sri Lankan Prime Minister Mahinda Rajapaksa, who is on a two-day spiritual visit to India, on Friday offered prayers at the famous hill shrine of Lord Venkateswara in Andhra Pradesh’s Tirumala along with his wife Shiranthi Rajapaksa.Rajapaksa came to India on Thursday to pay his visit to the temple city of Tirupati.Rajapaksa was accorded a warm welcome by the joint executive officer of Tirumala Tirupati Devasthanams (TTD) Veerabrahmam and chief vigilance and security officer Gopinath Jatti as he arrived at the temple gate.After darshan, the priests performed a ritual associated with seeking blessings of Lord Shiva at the Ranganayakula Mandapam.Andhra Pradesh’s deputy chief minister Narayana Swamy was also present during the Lankan PM's Tirumala temple visit.While taking a tour of the temple, Rajapaksa also deposited money into the hundi and the couple was presented with a memento, New Year calendar and diaries by authorities.Rajapaksa visited the temple in February 2020 when a special puja was performed at the Devasthanam on the first anniversary of his current term.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/sri-lankan-pm-rajapaksa-offers-prayers-at-tirupati-101640332742539.html
24-12-2021||India||News updates from HT: Channi govt is weak…has ‘internal disputes’, AAP hits back||Here are today’s top news, analysis, and opinion. Know all about the latest news and other news updates from Hindustan Times.Channi govt is weak…has 'internal disputes': AAP's Arvind Kejriwal hits back“Yesterday, there was a bomb blast in Ludhiana. People are in shock. The chief minister of Punjab just held a press conference. The people of Punjab expected that the CM would say something about the blast,” the Delhi chief minister said in a tweet in Hindi. Read more No evidence of sacrilege in Kapurthala, FIR will be amended: Punjab CM ChanniThe unidentified man was beaten to death at Nizampur in Kapurthala district for allegedly disrespecting the 'Nishan Sahib' at the village Gurudwara on December 19. Read more  Cameron Mackay appointed as Canada’s envoy to IndiaCameron Mackay, who is moving from his post as ambassador to Indonesia and Timor-Leste, has expertise in trade negotiations, pointing towards a focus on such discussions that were revived between India and Canada this year.Read more  'It's like man-eater when it knows there is prey around': Tendulkar points out big reason behind Rohit's Test successSachin Tendulkar opened up on Rohit Sharma's Test success this year, pointing out the one big reason behind the opener's consistent performances in whites. Read more  With mobility training, Sanya Malhotra shows us how it's done"Bring mobility training into your routine and become more aware of your body movements and positions," read an excerpt of Sanya Malhotra's fitness trainer's post.  Read more Ola Electric’s dream of world’s largest EV factory may hit chip crisis bumpAs Ola Electric begins delivery of its S1 and S1 Pro electric scooters, the EV maker is beginning to feel the pressure of global chip crisis. Read more Writer movie review: One of the most important films of Tamil cinema, a polite answer to chest-thumping cop moviesWriter movie review: Samuthirakani truly stands out as a policeman thrown to the sharks after 35 years of desk job. Read more||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/news-updates-from-ht-channi-govt-is-weak-has-internal-disputes-aap-hits-back-101640329705489.html
24-12-2021||India||2 foreign returnees test positive for Omicron in Andhra Pradesh, state's caseload rises to 4||Two more cases of the Omicron variant have been detected in Andhra Pradesh, pushing the total number of such cases in the state to four, the Andhra Pradesh government said on Friday. Both persons, who gave positive test result, returned from abroad, it further said.Providing details of the new patients, Dr G Hymavati, who heads the southern state's Public Health Department said, “A 41-year-old Kuwait returnee, who is a resident of the East Godavari district, arrived at the Gannavarm airport on December 19. A day later, she tested positive for Covid-19. Her samples were sent to CCMB Hyderabad for genome sequencing. She was then found positive for Omicron. The health department has quarantined the patient, and put her under its close observation.”The second patient, Dr Hymavati said, travelled from the UAE. “The man, who is a resident of Visakhapatnam, returned on December 15. He developed mild fever and was admitted to a private hospital. On December 16, he tested positive for Covid-19. Then, on Thursday, he was confirmed to be infected with Omicron,” the official said.Dr Hymavati also said that the emergence of Omicron, Covid-19 has been detected in total 53 international flyers and nine contacts, adding that the respective samples have been sent for genome sequencing.Andhra Pradesh reported its first case of Omicron on December 12, while the second was confirmed on December 22. While the first patient returned to his native city of Vizianagaram from Ireland via Mumbai, the second flew in from Kenya via Chennai and travelled to Tirupati.Also Read | Covid-19: Andhra reports second Omicron case as new variant continues to spreadNationally, at least 358 cases of the fresh strain have been reported from across the country till now, the Union health ministry said on Friday. Maharashtra, which reported 23 infections on December 23 pushing its count to 88, is at the top, followed by Delhi, whose caseload stands at 67. Also Read | Omicron tracker: State-wise status of new variant cases in IndiaThe emergence and spread of Omicron has also prompted state governments to reimpose restrictions ahead of the upcoming Christmas and New Year celebrations.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/omicron-2-foreign-returnees-test-positive-in-andhra-pradesh-state-s-tally-at-4-101640328186145.html
24-12-2021||India||DHFL case: CBI court grants bail to ex-business head of Yes Bank||A special Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI) court on Thursday granted bail to Rajiv Anand, former business head of Yes Bank, in the cheating and corruption case involving private sector lender Dewan Housing Finance Corporation Ltd (DHFL).Special judge S U Wadgaonkar ordered the bail on the execution of a personal bond of ₹25,000 with one solvent surety of the same amount. The court allowed provisional cash bail of ₹25,000 for four weeks so as to enable him to arrange the solvent surety.The CBI on March 7, 2020, registered a case against DHFL, DOIT Urban Venture (India) Private Limited, and some other entities, their directors, and promoters. It named Yes Bank founder Rana Kapoor as the prime accused. The agency alleged Yes Bank invested ₹3,700 crores in short-term non-convertible debentures of DHFL between April and June 2018. Kapoor allegedly received ₹600 crores as kickbacks from DHFL.The court last week granted bail to Mahesh Kumar Varakh, former group executive vice-president of Yes Bank.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/dhfl-case-cbi-court-grants-bail-to-ex-business-head-of-yes-bank-101640326820354.html
24-12-2021||India||Channi govt is weak…has 'internal disputes': AAP's Arvind Kejriwal hits back||Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) convenor Arvind Kejriwal on Friday slammed the Charanjit Singh Channi-led government in Punjab, saying it is involved in “internal disputes" and that the state needs "a strong and actionable government" adding to the war of words ahead of assembly elections in the state next year.“Yesterday, there was a bomb blast in Ludhiana. People are in shock. The chief minister of Punjab just held a press conference. The people of Punjab expected that the CM would say something about the blast,” the Delhi chief minister said in a tweet in Hindi.“Channi sahib didn't say a word on blast during the press conference but abused me a lot. Politics during such a difficult time?” he said referring to the Punjab chief minister’s press conference in Chandigarh.Kejriwal also spoke about the recent sacrilege incidents inside the Golden Temple in Amritsar and another one in Kapurthala.“First sacrilege, now bomb blast. Some people want to disturb the peace in Punjab. Today there is a very weak government in Punjab which is fighting amongst themselves. To maintain peace in Punjab and to give strict punishment to the culprits, strict and honest government is needed in Punjab,” Kejriwal said in another tweet.He also called the incidents a "deliberate" attempt to disturb peace in the state ahead of the elections. “The person who attempted to desecrate Guru Granth Sahib could have been sent by someone. It is food for thought... Unless the state government is not honest, committed, such incidents will recur,” the AAP leader was quoted as saying by news agency ANI.Also Read | Punjab to file status report on probe in sacrilege cases by Jan 21“The AAP will give a strong government in Punjab and punish masterminds behind such crimes," he added.On Thursday, an explosion was reported from a district court complex of Ludhiana, killing one and leaving at least five people injured.Also Read | Sacrilege bid has potential to polarise people in Punjab: Capt AmarinderThe explosion came after two alleged incidents of sacrilege were reported in the poll-bound state. A man was lynched on Saturday after an alleged attempt to commit sacrilege inside the sanctum sanctorum of the Golden Temple.The man reportedly jumped the golden grills inside the sanctum sanctorum and picked a sword and reached the place where a Sikh priest was reciting the holy Guru Granth Sahib.Another incident was reported from Kapurthala, where an unidentified man was lynched at a gurdwara over an alleged sacrilege. However, the police said, there was “no visible sign” of sacrilege and it appeared the man wanted to commit theft at the gurdwara.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/channi-govt-is-weak-has-internal-disputes-aap-s-arvind-kejriwal-hits-back-101640325835205.html
24-12-2021||India||Punjab to waive off debt up to ₹2 lakh for small and marginal farmers||Punjab chief minister Charanjit Singh Channi on Friday announced the Congress-led state government will waive off debts of up to ₹2 lakh for the remaining 1.09 lakh small and marginal farmers, who own land up to five acres.This measure—costing ₹1,200 crore in state funds—is to be implemented within 10 days, said the chief minister of Punjab a day after he met protesting farmers, who had refused to make any concession on their demand for a complete debt waiver.Notably, the state government has already waived off loans of 5.63 lakh such farmers to the tune of ₹4,610 crore. Out of these, 1.34 lakh small farmers got relief of ₹980 crore while 4.29 lakh marginal farmers were benefitted from a loan waiver of Rs. 3,630 crore.Addressing a press conference in Chandigarh on Friday, Channi said his government has also decided to waive off the debt of landless labourers and simultaneously passed a decision to form a reservation commission for the general category (GC).“The Punjab government has decided to waive off debt up to ₹2 lakh for farmers who have land up to 5 acres, to be implemented in 10 days,” the Punjab chief minister told reporters. “We have also waived off the debt of landless labourers; the decision to form a commission for the general category has been passed.”Punjab govt has decided to waive off debt up to ₹2 lakh for farmers who have land up to 5 acres - to be implemented in 10 days. We've also waived off debt of landless labourers; decision to form a Commission for General category has been passed: Punjab CM Charanjit Singh Channi pic.twitter.com/hkMCCkEJtfAccording to an estimate, farmers in Punjab are under a debt of ₹90,000 crore. Making a note of this fact, representatives of as many as 32 farmer organisations from across the state met the chief minister on Thursday and placed their demands before the administration.These included farm loan waivers, cancellation of first information reports (FIR) lodged against farmers during the anti-farm law agitation, and compensation over land acquired for highway projects.In the meeting, Channi offered to release the pending ₹1,200 crore to clear loans up to ₹2 lakh under the existing debt waiver scheme. The government, he said, will cover 1.09 lakh farmers in the small and marginal category and the amount will be waived in 10-12 days.The Congress party’s Punjab unit also made the announcement from its official Twitter handle. “The Congress government will waive off the debt of up to 2 lakh rupees for 1.09 lakh small and marginal farmers for which 1200 crore rupees will be spent,” the party tweeted.The Congress Government will waive off debt of upto 2 lakh rupees for 1.09 lakh small and marginal farmers for which 1200 crore rupees will be spent. #HathPunjabDa #AawazPunjabDi #PunjabDiChangiSarkar #SarbatDaBhala #CongressFor2022 pic.twitter.com/8pocVdv4h5Acceding to another major demand of the Samyukt Kisan Morcha (SKM), Channi also announced all the FIRs registered by the Punjab police against farmers, who had been protesting against the now repeated farm laws within the state, will be cancelled by December 31.He directed the director-general of police (DGP) to immediately complete the requisite formalities so as to cancel all the FIRs filed against various farmers.The next meeting between the state government and the protesting farmers will take place on December 29, according to Bharatiya Kisan Union (BKU) Ekta Ugrahan Punjab president Joginder Singh.Farmer unions, part of the SKM, have over the past four days held demonstrations across Punjab, demanding a complete waiver of farm loans and compensation to the kin of those who died during the anti-farm laws stir.From Monday to Wednesday, they blocked railway tracks at different places in Ferozepur, Tarn Taran, Amritsar, and Hoshiarpur, affecting the movement of as many as 400 trains.Meanwhile, a group of farmers had also staged a sit-in on Wednesday outside the office of the deputy commissioner (DC) in Ludhiana.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/punjab-to-waive-off-debt-up-to-rs-2-lakh-for-small-and-marginal-farmers-101640323298312.html
24-12-2021||India||Over ₹150 crore cash found stashed by pan masala supplier||The Directorate General of GST Intelligence's (DGGI) day-long search this week at a leading pan masala factory in Kanpur led to the discovery of over ₹150 crore cash stashed at separate places by one of its suppliers in the city’s Anandpuri locality, people aware of the matter said.The people said much of the cash has been counted and State Bank of India’s help has also been sought in doing so. A DGGI team carried out raids at the factory as well as offices of transporter it hired to supply its products. The premises of the supplier was raided on Thursday morning. Four currency counting machines have since been working non-stop to count the cash, which was hidden including in lockers.The pan masala manufacturer and the transporter were allegedly involved in transporting goods under the cover of fake invoices without generating e-way bills. According to DGGI, the transporter generated multiple invoices in name of non-existent firms. All the invoices were below ₹50,000 for one truck-load to avoid the generation of the bills. The DGGI team intercepted four trucks for which the invoices were generated outside the factory premises.At least 200 fake invoices used for transportation of goods without payment of GST have been recovered from the warehouse of the transporter, DGGI said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/over-rs-150-crore-cash-found-stashed-by-pan-masala-supplier-101640323339828.html
24-12-2021||India||Omicron tracker: State-wise status of new variant cases in India||India's nationwide tally of Omicron cases has climbed to 358, according to a Covid-19 brief issued by the Centre on Friday morning. Maharashtra, with 88 cases of the highly infectious new strain, leads the country-wide count and is closely followed by Delhi (67), Telangana (38), Tamil Nadu (34), and Karnataka (31).Officials have said most of the Omicron patients have either reported mild symptoms or were asymptomatic.Also Read | Is Delhi witnessing early signs of fresh Covid-19 wave? Here’s what data showsHowever, medical experts and public health professionals advise caution over the fact that Omicron shows a frequent and unusually high number of mutations, which could complicate aspects such as transmissibility, immune system evasion, and vaccine resistance, despite initial reports indicating that the variant causes a less severe disease than previous strains.India's #Omicron tally crosses 350-mark after multiple states report new casesHowever, most of the patients either had mild symptoms or were asymptomatic.Details here https://t.co/Pd9ziA9xoI pic.twitter.com/dt7x1O5RzYAggravating the concerns is the approaching Christmas and holiday season when footfall is likely to go up, raising fears of public spots turning into Covid-19 hotspots.Here is the state-wise breakdown of Omicron cases in India:1. Maharashtra - 88 cases2. Delhi - 67 cases3. Telangana - 38 cases4. Tamil Nadu - 34 cases5. Karnataka - 31 cases6. Gujarat - 30 cases7. Kerala - 27 cases8. Rajasthan - 22 cases9. Haryana - 4 cases10. Odisha - 4 cases11. Jammu and Kashmir - 3 cases12. West Bengal - 3 cases13. Andhra Pradesh - 2 cases14. Uttar Pradesh - 2 cases15. Chandigarh - 1 case16. Ladakh - 1 case17. Uttarakhand - 1 caseOn Thursday, Prime Minister Narendra Modi directed officials to send special teams to states with low rates of vaccination, a growing number of cases, and inadequate health infrastructure to review and improve preparations for any resurgence in Covid-19 outbreaks.Also Read | Omicron tracker: State-wise status of new variant cases in IndiaPM Modi also directed officials to maintain a high level of vigil and alertness at all levels and said the Centre should work in close coordination with states to support their efforts of public health measures of containment and management under a “whole of government” approach.The Centre has already issued specific instructions to states after noting the “initial signs of surge” and multiple states and Union territories have also reimposed fresh restrictions in a bid to control the spread of the Omicron variant.States have also strengthened curbs in districts once again reporting high case positivity rates along with measures such as bringing back the night curfew, strictly regulating large gatherings, and putting prohibitions on the numbers of guests who can attend marriage ceremonies and functions.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/omicron-tracker-state-wise-status-of-new-variant-cases-in-india-101640320626467.html
24-12-2021||India||Amid Omicron threat, Goa's COVID-19 task force to meet today||In view of the growing threat of the Omicron variant of coronavirus in the country, Goa's COVID-19 task force will hold a meeting on Friday to discuss guidelines for Christmas and New Year celebrations, state Chief Minister Pramod Sawant has said. Talking to reporters late night on Thursday, he also appealed to the tourism industry to abide by all the coronavirus-related protocols, especially during the festive season. ALSO READ| Ranveer Singh twins with the groom as he attends manager's wedding in Goa. See picsThe tourism industry stakeholders should take all the precautionary measures to ensure that the virus does not spread in the state, he said. "Although no case of Omicron infection has been detected in Goa so far, all necessary steps need to be taken during the festive season.A few states have imposed night curfew in view of the virus variant. But we need to make sure that we don't have to go undertake such measures," Sawant said. The tourism industry should ensure adherence to COVID-19 norms, like social distancing and sanitisation, to prevent the spread of the virus.The state has been testing international passengers arriving at the airport, he said, adding, "Those who test positive are isolated and other passengers who arrive with them are also monitored.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/amid-omicron-threat-goa-s-covid-19-task-force-to-meet-today-101640320537260.html
24-12-2021||India||ED freezes former govt employee’s assets worth ₹1.46 crore||The Enforcement Directorate froze immovable property worth ₹1.46 crore belonging to Santosh Kumar Dubey, the senior commandant of the Railway Protection Force, and others under the provisions of the Prevention of Money Laundering Act (PMLA), 2002 in a disproportionate assets case, officials said.As per the press release issued by the ED, a money-laundering investigation was initiated on the basis of a First Information Report (FIR) dated October 7, 2013, by the Central Bureau of Investigation in Patna. “In the FIR, it is alleged that total joint income, without deducting the expenses, during the period from the year 1998 to 2013, of Santosh Kumar Dubey and his wife Priya Dubey, both public servants, from salary and other known sources are ₹1,57,27,000,” said the ED.However, despite their official income, the value of the properties acquired by them sums up to around ₹2.65 crore. Apart from that, the Senior Commandant was also in possession of disproportionate assets to the extent of ₹1.46 crore, which is allegedly acquired through illegal means.With further investigation, ED officials revealed that Santosh Kumar Dubey acquired several immovable properties in his name, in his wife Priya Dubey’s name and his deceased father, Shankar Dayal Dubey’s name, by mostly taking accommodation entries to hide the earning by illicit methods.Further investigation is in progress.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/ed-freezes-assets-worth-rs-1-46-crores-of-former-govt-employee-in-disproportionate-assets-case-101640321119987.html
24-12-2021||India||Bihar set to sanction 11 lakh new units under PMAY(G) in January||With the panchayat polls over in Bihar, the rural development department of the state is all set to sanction 11 lakh new units under Pradhan Mantri Awas Yojana (Gramin) for the year 2021-22 having suffered delays in taking up new construction of pucca houses for economically weaker section due to the restriction put by State Election Commission (SEC), officials said. “We will be sanctioning 11 lakh new units as per the target of this year in January. All preparations have been made and constructions would start soon,” said principal secretary, rural development department (RDD), Arvind Kumar Chaudhary. The state government had a target of sanctioning 11 lakh new houses in this fiscal year including beneficiaries listed under the permanent waiting list (PWL), however, owing to the panchayat polls, restrictions were put on sanctioning of new units. “There has been a delay but we have directed all DMs to ensure that the list of beneficiaries selected as per this year’s target is approved by the gram panchayat by mid-January. The final list will be approved by January 22 and we target to give the first instalment to all beneficiaries by January 25,” said a senior officer engaged in the implementation of the housing scheme. As per the latest data issued by the ministry of rural development on December 14, 2021, Bihar’s has completed 19 lakh units of houses in the last three financial years from 2018-19 to 2020-21. The state government has a target of completing 32 lakh plus homes in this fiscal year by adding another 13-14 lakh units including a backlog of previous years, officials said. Officials said the PMAY(G) implementation is better in terms of construction of units in Bihar as compared to many states, but there still exists a backlog of 4.50 lakh units (unfinished), ostensibly due to the obstructions caused in construction activity owing to the Covid-19 pandemic from 2020, fund shortage and also migration of the beneficiaries. According to reports, states like Chhattisgarh, Assam, Maharashtra, Madhya Pradesh, West Bengal, Karnataka, and Tamil Nadu have a high rate of outstanding units against sanctioned units under PMAY(G), which is a centrally sponsored scheme to provide pucca houses to the economically weaker sections with centre giving 60% of percent while states sharing 40% of funds. Incidentally, RDD officials said the state government had drawn up a timeline to ensure completion of at least 50% of the fresh units to be sanctioned by March 2022 by directing officials to monitor the construction activity by beneficiaries closely at the village level. “We hope to clear the backlog of units soon. Besides, we are focusing on increasing the pace of construction so that the high percentage of new units to be sanctioned is on the ground by March,” said the RDD principal secretary. Under PMAY(G), each beneficiary gets 1.20 lakh in non-Naxal affected districts while in Naxal infested districts, the total assistance is ₹1.30 lakh. 
24-12-2021||India||India's Omicron tally crosses 350-mark after multiple states report new cases||As the Omicron variant of the coronavirus is fuelling infections around the world, India’s tally of the new, highly infectious strain has crossed the 350-mark.As of Thursday night, the country reported as many as 354 cases of the Omicron variant, according to data collated from across the states by Hindustan Times. However, most of the patients either had mild symptoms or were asymptomatic.Also Read | Modi advises caution on OmicronGoing by this statistic, India reported more than 100 cases of the Omicron variant in a span of 24 hours, as the Union ministry of health and family welfare said in its last update a day prior that the nationwide tally was 238.Driving the Omicron surge in India are Delhi and Maharashtra as both these regions collectively lead the tally with regards to the new variant of SARS-CoV-2, which is said to also be capable of undergoing frequent and an unusually large number of mutations.While Delhi did not register any fresh cases of the new variant on Thursday, Maharashtra reported 23 new infections, of which five were in Mumbai. This pushed Maharashtra's Omicron tally to 88.Also Read | Omicron scare from Delhi to Mumbai; curbs return ahead of Christmas, holiday seasonDelhi has so far reported at least 64 infections of the new ‘variant of concern’; most of them, however, have not shown any symptoms and have been discharged after testing negative for the virus.Throughout Thursday, several other states continued to record Omicron infections. Two cases were reported in Odisha, seven reported in Gujarat, 12 in Karnataka, 33 in Tamil Nadu, and more.In the evening, Prime Minister Narendra Modi chaired a high-level meeting over the gradual rise in Omicron variant cases. The Prime Minister directed officials to send special teams to states with low rates of vaccination, a growing number of cases, and inadequate health infrastructure to review and improve preparations for any resurgence in Covid-19 outbreaks.PM Modi also directed officials to maintain a high level of vigil and alertness at all levels and said the central government should work in close coordination with states to support their efforts of public health measures of containment and management under a “whole of government” approach.“In view of the new variant, we should be Satark and Saavdhan,” said the Prime Minister, while also stressing the need for people to adhere to Covid-safe behaviour.The Omicron variant has got medical experts and public health professionals across the world concerned over aspects such as its transmissibility, immune system evasion, and vaccine resistance, despite initial reports indicating that the variant causes a less severe disease than previous strains.Aggravating the concerns is the approaching Christmas and holiday season when footfall is likely to go up, raising fears of public spots turning into Covid-19 hotspots.Experts have already warned that the late November to early January period—the holidays— will be an especially crucial time for this new phase of the coronavirus pandemic driven by Omicron, and any unwary activity during the festive season might lead to a revamped wave of the infectious disease.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/indias-omicron-tally-crosses-350-mark-after-multiple-states-report-new-cases-101640314557323.html
24-12-2021||India||News updates from HT: US to allow waiving of in-person interviews for H-1B, other visas and all the latest news||Here are today’s top news, analysis, and opinion. Know all about the latest news and other news updates from Hindustan Times.US to allow waiving of in-person interviews for H-1B, other visas through 2022The United States will allow its consular officers to waive in-person interviews for H-1B and other certain non-immigrant visa applicants through next year to help reduce visa wait times, the State Department said on Thursday. Read MoreWHO says blanket use of booster dose will only widen vaccine inequality, prolong pandemicThe World Health Organization (WHO) has criticised the prevailing idea of blanket administration of booster doses of vaccines against the coronavirus disease (Covid-19), pointing out that undertaking such a policy will widen the pre-existing vaccine inequality among the first-world and relatively poorer nations. Read MoreOmicron alert in Maharashtra: New guidelines today in view of Christmas, holiday seasonAmid growing concerns over Omicron, the highly infectious new variant of the coronavirus, the Maharashtra government will on Friday issue a set of fresh guidelines keeping in mind the upcoming Christmas and New Year's celebrations. Read MoreMinnal Murali movie review: Kerala delivers India’s first great superhero filmUp until recently, whether India could ever make Hollywood-like special effects-driven blockbusters, which also makes massive profits globally, was a big question. Read More'My job is not to butter everyone's toast': Ex-India coach Ravi Shastri responds to R Ashwin's 'I was crushed' commentDays after Ravichandran Ashwin's interview where he spoke about Ravi Shastri's comments which left him “absolutely crushed," the former India coach shared his views on it. Read MoreWatch: MHA seeks report from Punjab govt as NSG visits Ludhiana blast site||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/news-updates-from-ht-us-to-allow-waiving-of-in-person-interviews-for-h-1b-other-visas-through-2022-and-all-the-latest-news-101640316247047.html
24-12-2021||India||Indian Army launches indigenous messaging application called ASIGMA||The Indian Army has launched a messaging application with features such as multi-level security and message prioritisation.In a statement on Thursday, the defence ministry said the Army Secure IndiGeneous Messaging Application (ASIGMA) is a new generation, state-of-the-art, web-based application. It added that a team of Corps of Signals has developed it in-house.The ministry said the application was being deployed as a replacement of the Army Wide Area Network messaging application, which has been in service for 15 years.“The application (ASIGMA) has been fielded on Army-owned hardware and lends itself to lifetime support with future upgrades. The bespoke messaging application meets all futuristic user requirements and boasts of an enhanced user experience,” said the statement.The ministry said the application will meet the army's real-time data transfer and messaging requirements, especially in the backdrop of the current geopolitical-security environment. It added the app is in line with the government’s Make in India initiative.“The Indian Army has braced automation in a major way, especially post Covid-19 outbreak, and is taking substantial steps towards paperless functioning. ASIGMA will further boost these efforts and will add to the host of other applications already being employed by the Army over its captive pan Army network,” the ministry said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/army-launches-messaging-application-101640315264419.html
24-12-2021||India||Flying to Delhi? Here are some fresh guidelines you need to know||In view of the fresh surge in daily infections of the coronavirus disease (Covid-19), including those due to the Omicron variant, the ministry of civil aviation has issued fresh guidelines for air passengers travelling to the national capital.Also Read | Delhi and Mumbai witness spike in Covid cases as Omicron triggers alarm“Attention Travellers! Travelling to Delhi? Take a look at the latest State-wise Quarantine Guidelines. Take all the necessary measures and be a #COVID_Hero #TravelSafeTravelMindfully,” the Jyotiraditya Scindia-headed ministry shared on Twitter, on Thursday.
24-12-2021||India||National Consumer Rights Day 2021: Celebration of consumer rights in India||December 24 is celebrated annually in India as National Consumer Rights Day, also called National Consumer Day, to commemorate December 24, 1986, when the Consumer Protection Act received assent of the President of India. The purpose of the day is to make consumers aware of their rights and responsibilities.Who is a consumer: A consumer is anyone who purchases goods or services, and pays for it in return.Consumer Rights in India: Consumer Protection Act guarantees six basic rights to consumers: right to choose the product; right to be protected from all kinds of hazardous goods; right to be informed about the performance and quality of all products; right to be heard in all decision-making processes related to consumer interests; right to seek redressal, whenever consumer rights have been infringed; right to complete consumer education.Events on National Consumers Day: Each year, the day is celebrated under a specific theme. The Union government, in partnership with the state government, conducts events on consumer awareness. Often, such events feature skits and plays highlighting a customers' rights. In 2019, a virtual seminar was organised by the Department of Consumer Affairs to explain the Consumer Protection Act 2019.Just like last year, this year's celebrations, too, will take place in the shadow of the Covid-19 pandemic.World Consumer Rights Day: People often get confused between World Consumer Rights Day and National Consumer Rights Day. While both have the same purpose, they are observed on different dates. World Consumer Rights Day is celebrated annually on March 15.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/national-consumer-rights-day-2021-day-to-celebrate-consumer-rights-in-india-101640303001835.html
24-12-2021||NA||Breaking: Delhi's Sarojini Market to operate on odd-even basis during weekend||Welcome to hindustantimes.com live updates platform where you can find breaking news from India and across the world. Find fast updates about the latest news as it breaks.Follow all the updates here:MiG-21 crash update: Wing Commander Harshit Sinha, pilot of IAF aircraft, diesWith deep sorrow, IAF conveys the sad demise of Wing Commander Harshit Sinha in the flying accident this evening and stands firmly with the family of the braveheart.Wing Commander Harshit Sinha, who was the pilot of the MiG-21 aircraft that crashed in Rajasthan's Jaisalmer on Friday evening, has died. Delhi's Sarojini Market to operate on odd-even basis during weekendThe Sarojini Market in the national capital will operate on odd-even basis during weekend. MiG-21 aircraft of the IAF crashes in Rajasthan's JaisalmerA MiG-21 aircraft of the Indian Air Force (IAF) crashed in Rajasthan's Jaisalmer on Friday evening. The aircraft crashed near the Desert National Park Area. No details about the pilot are known at the moment. Kerala reports 8 more Omicron casesEight more people tested positive for Omicron in Kerala today, the total number in the State is 37. The first Omicron case in the State has been discharged: Health Minister Veena George(file photo) pic.twitter.com/t3IaQguD1vKerala on Friday reported eight more cases of Omicron, which pushed the total count to 37. BMC makes 7-day home quarantine must for all arrivals from DubaiThe Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) on Friday issued guidelines for all passengers arriving in Mumbai from Dubai in view of the threat posed by the Omicron variant of Covid-19. Read moreMaharashtra's Omicron count crosses 100-markMaharashtra's Omicron count crossed 100-mark on Friday after 20 new cases were reported during the day. The capital city Mumbai reported 11 Omicron caseHaryana considering imposing night curfew from 11pm-5am: State govtThe Haryana govt announced on Friday that unvaccinated people will not be allowed to enter public places in the state from January 1. The state governnment also added that it is considering imposing a night curfew from 11pm till 5am. Gujarat imposes night curfew in 8 cities in view of Covid-19 crisisNight curfew to be in force from 11pm to 5am daily in Ahmedabad, Vadodara, Surat, Rajkot, Bhavnagar, Jamnagar, Gandhinagar and Junagadh from 25th December, in view of current COVID19 situation: Gujarat Chief Minister's Office#OmicronDelhi reports 180 new Covid-19 cases, 82 more recoveries🏥Delhi Health Bulletin - 24th December 2021🏥 #delhiFightsCorona pic.twitter.com/cgiwtCcPydThe national capital on Friday reported 180 new Covid-19 cases and 82 more recoveries. India's Omicron count at 358; 183 such cases analysed, says health ministryThe Union health ministry said on Friday that 17 states and Union Territories (UTs) in India have reported cases of the Omicron variant of the coronavirus, which was first detected in South Africa in November. Read moreOdisha restricts Christmas and New Year celebrations in view of CovidIn view of the current Covid situation, Odisha Government has restricted the Christmas & New Year celebrations w.e.f 25th Dec to 2nd Jan. Social gatherings, rallies, orchestras, celebrations in hotels, clubs, restaurants, parks, etc will be banned across the State pic.twitter.com/oF43jI2SP2The Odisha government has restricted Christmas and New Year celebrations starting from Saturday in view of the ongoing coronavirus pandemic situation. Treatment protocols for Delta and Covid-19 will apply to Omicron: Health ministryThe treatment protocols for COVID-19 & Delta will apply to Omicron. While the evidence emerges, the immune escape potential for Delta is higher & its high transmission rates will lead to high surge cases: Union Health Secretary Rajesh Bhushan on COVID19 pic.twitter.com/3vU9opYFdzIndia reporting less than 10k new Covid-19 cases for last 1 month: Health ministryThe Union health ministry said on Friday that the country has been reporting less than 10,000 new Covid-19 cases for the last one month. Ludhiana blast: Court running as per routine, security tightened, say policeA day after an explosion occurred on the premises of the Ludhiana district court, police said on Friday that security has been tightened around the court complex and the court is running as per routine. Read moreLudhiana court explosion: Will act against those spoiling Punjab's atmosphere, says law ministerPunjab | I've come here to give confidence to people of Punjab. I want to assure you all that State & Central govts will work together and will take strict actions against those who are trying to spoil the atmosphere of Punjab&country: Union Law Minister Kiren Rijiju in Ludhiana pic.twitter.com/kLhQxy10bJUnion law minister Kiren Rijiju said on Friday that the Centre and the Punjab government will work together and take strict actions against those who are trying to spoil the atmosphere of the state as well as the whole country. Delhi achieves 100% coverage in first dose Covid vaccination, says CM Kejriwal👏👏Delhi completes first dose to 100% eligible people - 148.33 lakhSalute to Doctors, ANMs, Teachers, ASHAs, CDVs and all other Frontline workers. Congratulations to DMs, CDMOs, DIOs and all district functionariesHarbhajan Singh announces retirement from cricketVeteran India spinner Harbhajan Singh has announced his retirement from all forms of cricket. Read morePuducherry adds 20 new Covid-19 cases, 12 recoveriesPuducherry on Friday added 20 new cases and 12 more recoveries due to the coronavirus disease (Covid-19), taking the caseload and cumulative recoveries to 129, 394 and 127,360 respectively. No new deaths were reported for a fifth consecutive day and the toll remains unchanged at 1,880. If elected, will ensure there's no sacrilege: Arvind KejriwalIf we are elected, we will ensure that there is no sacrilege of any religion, and those involved in sacrilege are punished. All bomb blasts will be investigated, their masterminds will be sent to jail: Arvind Kejriwal, Delhi CM, in Gurdaspur, Punjab.Ludhiana blast: Person who died was likely handler, say policeThe Ludhiana court blast occurred at 12:22pm on December 23. Preliminary investigation suggests that the person who died in the blast was the handler/criminal. Forensic experts, bomb experts looking into the matter: Gurpreet Singh Bhullar, Ludhiana Police CommissionerPM Modi to hold Council of ministers meet next weekPrime Minister Narendra Modi to hold Council of Minister meet on December 29.Andhra Pradesh reports 2 new Omicron casesTwo more cases of Omicron reported in Andhra Pradesh. Total cases at four now: Govt of Andhra PradeshUP govt reimposes night curfewUP government announces reintroduction of Corona night curfew from the night of December 25. Curfew to be in effect from 11pm to 5am.No evidence of sacrilege in Kapurthala, says Punjab CMIn Kapurthala, where a man was lynched for alleged sacrilege, no evidence that sacrilege was done. Matter being probed, FIR to be amended: Charanjit Singh Channi, Punjab CMVoting underway for Chandigarh civic pollsVoting underway for Chandigarh Municipal Corporation elections.Rajasthan: Fire breaks out at factory in KotaFire breaks out at a chemical factory near City Mall in Rajasthan's Kota district. Five fire tenders at spot.Markets open in redSensex slips 33.6 points to 57,281.68 in opening session, Nifty declines 5.90 points to 17,066.70.India sees 6650 new Covid-19 cases, 11% lower than yesterdayIndia records 6650 new Covid-19 cases, 7051 recoveries and 374 deaths. Total cases rise to 34, 772,626, including 34,215,977 discharges, 479,133 deaths and 77,516 active cases.1.16 million samples tested for Covid-19 on Dec 23: ICMRA total of 669,809,816 samples tested up to December 23, of which 1,165,887 were tested on December 23: Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR)Beijing 2022: Japan not to send govt officialsJapan has 'no plans to send government officials' to Beijing Olympics, reports AFP citing govt officials.Rajiv Gandhi case convict Nalini to be released on parole todayNalini Sriharan, a convict in the Rajiv Gandhi assassination case, to be released on a month-long parole today.Air quality deteriorates to 'severe' in DelhiDelhi's air quality deteriorates to 'severe' category with overall AQI standing at 425: SAFAR-IndiaUS waives in-person interviews for non-immigrant visasIn-person interviews for H-1B and certain other types of non-immigrant visas have been waived off: State DepartmentItaly bans New Year's Eve celebrationsAs daily Covid-19 infections reach record high in Delhi, govt bans all public New Year's Eve celebrations and makes wearing masks, when outdoor, compulsory again.Biden bans imports from China's XinjiangUS President Joe Biden signs law banning imports from China's Xinjiang and imposing sanctions on foreigners responsible for forced labour in the region: White HouseJ&K: Encounter breaks out between terrorists and security forcesEncounter breaks out between terrorists and security forces in Mumanhal locality of Arwani area in Anantnag, Jammu and Kashmir.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/breaking-news-live-december-24-2021-101640302673238.html
24-12-2021||India||Dalit cook fired from school files police complaint||A 32-year-old Dalit woman, who was fired from her position as the cook of a government school in Uttarakhand after “upper-caste” students refused to eat meals made by her, filed a complaint of harassment to the district authorities and police on Thursday.Sunita Devi, who lost her job a day ago over an alleged violation of norms, said she has sought action against the parents of the students who refused to eat food cooked by her. “I have handed over my complaint to local administration as well as police about my harassment by the parents of the upper caste students. I was hurt and felt insulted by their refusal to eat midday meals cooked by me,” said Devi.Devi was appointed as the cook, or bhojanmata, of the Sukhidhang government inter college (GIC) in Uttarakhand’s Champawat district, on December 13 but a day later, some 40 upper-caste students in classes 6 to 8 -- out of a total of 66 pupils in these classes -- stopped eating the meals and started bringing tiffin from home, said Prem Singh, the principal.The boycott sparked an inquiry, and on Wednesday, the district authorities scrapped Devi’s appointment and said norms were not followed while giving her the job. Parents of the upper-caste children backed the boycott, and alleged that Devi was chosen as the cook by overlooking a more deserving candidate, Pushpa Bhatt, a Brahmin. On Wednesday, they welcomed Devi’s removal and said the issue had been resolved. After she was fired, Devi approached tehsil office in Tanakpur and the police outpost in Chalthi, and handed over a complaint about the harassment by the parents of upper-caste students. She sought action against the parents who allegedly provoked their children to boycott food made by the Dalit woman.Pinki Arya, officiating tehsildar of the Purnagiri tehsil in Tanakpur, said as she was on VIP duty, her office might have received the complaint. “I will look into the complaint tomorrow and take appropriate action in the matter,” she added.Parents of the children who refused to eat food made by Devi, refuted her allegation. “Parents have not done any act of harassment as the bhojanmata is claiming. We oppose the faulty process of the bhojanmata’s appointment which was proved in education officers’ inquiry,” said Narendra Joshi, president of the parent teachers association. But local Dalit activists rejected the charge. “We met the additional district magistrate and demanded a magisterial inquiry,” said Govind Baudh, president of the Bhim Army in Kumaon.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/dalit-cook-fired-from-school-files-police-complaint-101640301252148.html
24-12-2021||India||Cultural outfit seeks Indian music in aircraft||The Indian Council for Cultural Relations (ICCR) and the musicians’ fraternity have appealed to Union civil aviation minister Jyotiraditya Scindia to make it mandatory for Indian airlines and airports to play Indian classical or light vocal and instrumental music.In a memorandum to the minister, ICCR and the musicians said the music played by most airlines across the globe is quintessential to the country to which the airline belongs.“ICCR joins the fraternity of musicians, singers and artists associated with India’s traditional music, in demanding that playing Indian classical or light vocal and instrumental music in aircraft being operated in India and also at various airports be made mandatory for all India-based airlines,’’ ICCR’s letter read.Vinay Sahasrabuddhe, president of ICCR, said the minister assured them that the ministry will look at their request.“I come from the music city of Gwalior, which has been the city of Tansen and has also been an old house of music; Indian ancient music has a history of many years and people have a lot of curiosity about ancient music too,” Scindia said during the meeting with ICCR on Thursday.Musicians and vocalists present at the event unanimously said that the idea would promote Indian music. “...it is extremely unfortunate and even ironic that most airways in India however — both private and government-owned as well as both domestic and International -- seldom, if at all, play Indian music... We hereby ardently request you to look into this matter,” the ICCR letter said.A senior airline official said, “Many components are considered before updating the inflight entertainment system (IFS). Thorough research is done before the list of songs is finalised. This list consists of a plethora of genres. Every airline aims to give a variety of options to its passengers.”Music composer Kushal Inamdar said, “Our appeal is that traditional Indian music should be played on board and at airports. When we land in India, it will be like welcoming travellers to our country. Music travels beyond words, it has the power to evoke emotions and that is why we should play Indian music...”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/cultural-outfit-seeks-indian-music-in-aircraft-101640298031027.html
24-12-2021||India||‘Jaan hai to jahan hai’: HC requests EC to bar rallies, defer polls over Omicron||PRAYAGRAJ: The Allahabad high court on Thursday requested Prime Minister Narendra Modi and the Election Commission (EC) to ban political rallies and if possible, even consider deferring assembly elections by one or two months in view of the rising cases of the Omicron variant of Covid-19.“The state elections are near and political parties are organising rallies in which people in large numbers are gathering and it is not possible to follow Covid protocol in such rallies. If not stopped, results will be worse than the second wave,” a single bench of Justice Shekhar Kumar Yadav said.Also Read: PM Modi advises caution on Omicron at his big review meetingThe judge requested EC to direct political parties to campaign through Doordarshan and the print media instead of organising rallies, and if possible, the elections expected to be held in February next year could be postponed by a couple of months because only if there is life, then the election rallies and meetings can take place, and the right to life has also been given under Article 21 of the Indian Constitution.Also Read: Night curfew imposed in MP as states report rise in Omicron casesJustice Yadav next turned to Prime Minister Narendra Modi. He praised PM Modi for the campaign to provide free Covid-19 vaccines to people and requested that strong measures be taken to stop rallies and gatherings, and even consider deferring the elections because ‘jaan hai to jahan hai” (If there is life, there is everything).The judge’s request to the Centre and the Election Commission is part of an order granting bail to a man arrested under the UP Gangsters and Anti-Social Activities (Prevention) Act.Also Read: Telangana high court directs state to impose curbs on gatherings amid concerns over Omicron variantThe court pointed to a large number of advocates in the court standing close to each other and flagged the situation for the high court’s registrar general to ensure steps to prevent violation of social distancing norms. “Omicron cases are increasing and there are chances of a third wave also. Therefore, the registrar general of the high court must frame guidelines to face this challenge,” the bench said.In this context, Justice Yadav, who delivered this order in Hindi, noted the situation outside the courtroom in context of elections and recalled how the Bengal state elections and UP panchayat elections contributed to the spread of Covid-19 infections.The EC did come in for criticism over the conduct of assembly elections in West Bengal -- Covid protocols were not followed by all parties involved for much of the campaign -- which coincided with the second wave of the pandemic. The Madras High Court even observed that the commission needs to be booked for attempt to murder for failing to react to the changing situation and pressing ahead with the elections.Chief Election Commissioner Sushil Chandra told reporters on Wednesday that it is ready to hold the elections in Goa (and by extension, the other states going to polls around the same time), despite the looming threat of another wave of the coronavirus disease pandemic. He insisted that local election officials have been empowered to ensure strict adherence to Covid protocols during campaigning.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/jaan-hain-to-jahan-hain-hc-asks-modi-ec-to-defer-polls-over-omicron-threat-101640292076536.html
24-12-2021||India||Congress wins polls held in 15 urban bodies in Chhattisgarh||The ruling Congress has won in polls held in 15 urban bodies in Chhattisgarh winning 174 wards and beating the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) which could manage 89 wards, a state election commission official said on Thursday evening. The results were declared by the State Election Commission for 300 of the total 370 wards for which election was held on Monday. The results showed Congress candidates victorious in 174 wards, BJP in 89, Janata Congress Chhattisgarh (J) in 6 while independent contestants won in 31 wards. Results for the remaining 70 wards, which fall under the Bhilai Municipal Corporation of Durg district were yet to be officially declared as counting was underway. “In most of these wards Congress candidates are leading,” the official added. Chief Minister Bhupesh Baghel said that the results were expected and people have voted keeping in mind the government’s policies and schemes. “The credit for victory goes to Congress workers who worked hard for this victory…People have given us a mandate based on our schemes and policies,” said Baghel talking to the media. On the other hand, BJP leaders claimed that it is an indication of how unpopular the Congress government is.. BJP state president Vishnudeo Sai, said, “The results show the Bhupesh Baghel government has become unpopular and it is the beginning of a Congress-free Chhattisgarh. The good response of the voters to the BJP in this election also reflects that peoples’ trust on this government is declining”. The civic bodies which went to polls included 4 municipal corporations, 6 municipal councils and five nagar panchayats. Out of 40 wards in the prominent Birgaon Municipal Corporation, Congress has won 19 and BJP 10 while JCC(J) and Independent candidates emerged as the winner in 5 and 6 wards respectively. “Results are as per the expectations and it reflects the mood of the people. People have shown faith on the three-year Congress rule,” state Congress chief Mohan Markam said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/congress-wins-polls-held-in-15-urban-bodies-in-chhattisgarh-101640289374520.html
24-12-2021||India||Rajiv Gandhi assassination case convict Nalini gets 1-month parole||Chennai: The Tamil Nadu government has decided to grant ordinary leave for a month to Nalini Sriharan, one of the convicts serving a life term in the former Prime Minister Rajiv Gandhi’s assassination case, the state public prosecutor Hasan Mohamed Jinnah informed the Madras high court on Thursday. Recording the decision, a bench of justice P N Prakash and R Hemalatha closed the habeas corpus petition filed by Nalini’s mother, S Padma.In her affidavit, Padma had stated that she was suffering from various illnesses and wanted her daughter to be with her and that she had previously sent representations to the state government. “The prisons department in a communication dated December 22 has issued a letter for her (Nalini) to be given 30-days leave by submitting two sureties,” said the family’s counsel V Pugazhendi. “The one-month leave is likely to start from December 25 or 26.”Nalini has another petition pending in court seeking release from the Vellore Central prison where she has been lodged for more than three decades. Nalini was sentenced to death by a trial court in 1998 which was commuted to life in 2000.The Tamil Nadu assembly, when AIADMK was in power in 2018, had passed a unanimous resolution to release all the seven prisoners convicted in the case to life imprisonment. The resolution was sent to then Governor Purohit but he did not take any action for more than two years.In January this year, the Supreme Court, while hearing a plea, expressed they were unhappy with the delay. In February this year, Purohit said the President was the competent authority to decide on the resolution. After forming the government in May, Tamil Nadu chief minister M K Stalin wrote a letter to President Kovind urging him to remit the life sentence of the seven convicts and to direct their immediate release. Last month, Nalini had moved court seeking release calling the Governor’s indecision unconstitutional as he is meant to act on the advice of the state Cabinet. But the DMK-led government in November told the court to dismiss her petition stating that the Governor’s nod is a must. Former Prime Minister Rajiv Gandhi was assassinated on May 21, 1991 at Sriperumbudur by a woman suicide bomber Dhanu, belonging to the Liberation Tigers of Tamil Eelam (LTTE).||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/rajiv-gandhi-assassination-case-convict-nalini-gets-1-month-parole-101640288054341.html
24-12-2021||India||Madhya Pradesh third state to pass bill that seeks to recover property damages from protesters||Bhopal The Madhya Pradesh assembly on Thursday passed the Prevention of Damage to Public and Private Property and Recovery of Damages Bill 2021 by voice vote, amid a walk out by the opposition legislators. Uttar Pradesh and Haryana have both passed such bills earlier. The bill provides for setting up a tribunal which would look into the claims of property damage during riots or public protests. Rajesh Rajora, additional chief secretary home department, said the MP version of the bill is different from the other states as it has provisions that are consumer-friendly and will aid recovery of loss faster.State home minister Narottam Mishra introduced the bill on Thursday and it was passed without any discussion. The approved bill will now be sent to governor Mangubhai Patel for his consent before it become a law. Before introduction of the bill, the MP Assembly passed a resolution that panchayat elections will not be held without Other Backward Classes (OBC) reservation. The Opposition walkout came as Leader of opposition, Kamal Nath, was reportedly not allowed to speak on the resolution. After this, five bills including Prevention of Damage to Public and Private Property were introduced and passed. Mishra said, “The opposition leaders knew that the bills will be introduced but they walked out without any reason. The opposition didn’t discuss the bills. What kind of opposition is this.” “Now, the bill will help us to maintain peace and harmony in MP. It will also stop the anti-social elements from creating destruction in the state. Now, the protestors will be penalised by claim tribunal with FIR,” he added. Reacting to the bill’s passage, Congress MLA Kunal Chaudhary said, “BJP-led state government is working unconstitutionally. The ministers introduced the bills after Congress MLAs walked out. The laws are being made to suppress the voice of people and misuse the power. They were not allowing the opposition to present their views. That’s why they first stopped the leader of opposition (Kamal Nath) from presenting his views on the resolution of OBC and later, they passed the bills in the absence of the opposition. “ The bill has a provision for recovering the cost of damaged property from those who are found guilty of vandalism during unrest or agitation. A claim tribunal comprising a retired judge and an IAS officer will be formed in the aftermath of such incidents to look into the claims, the bill says. Officers of the concerned department for pubic property or owners of private property can apply for compensation within 30 days of the vandalism and the tribunal will have to take a decision on compensation within three months of the application, reads the draft.
24-12-2021||India||Police file case against Madras HC lawyer for improper behaviour during trial||Tamil Nadu police has registered a case against a Madras High Court lawyer, R D Santhanakrishnan, who was caught canoodling with a woman during an online court proceeding. A bench of Justice PN Prakash and Justice R Hemalatha had taken suo moto cognisance of the case on December 21 saying one of their male colleagues was indulging in indecent behaviour. “This court cannot afford to be a mute spectator and turn a Nelson’s eye when such brazen vulgarity is publicly displayed amidst Court proceedings,” the bench had said then. While hearing the case on Thursday, officials of the CB-CID and Central Crime Branch (CCB) of Tamil Nadu police were present. Since the video clip has been circulating on social media, police have sent communications to various social media platforms like Facebook, Instagram, WhatsApp, Twitter and Google to block the circulation of the impugned video clipping and that police are pursuing the matter with the nodal officers concerned. This was informed to the court in an action take report submitted on December 22 by Tamil Nadu’s public prosecutor Hasan Mohamed Jinnah which was signed by an officer of the CCB. The cyber crime cell of the CB-CID in Chennai has also filed a preliminary report on December 22 which identified the man in the video as advocate Santhanakrishnan and that the name of the woman in the impugned video clipping is yet to be ascertained. He has been booked under Sections 228 (Intentional insult or interruption to public servant sitting in judicial proceeding), 292(2)(a) (for circulating obscene material) and 294(a) IPC and Section 67-A of the Information Technology Act, 2008. The Bar Council of Tamil Nadu and Puducherry had placed Santhanakrishnan under suspension on December 21 for his indecent behaviour, pending disposal of the disciplinary proceedings initiated against him, the court said in its orders. The court on Thursday established Santhanakrishnan as the first respondent and alleged contemnor. The court has issued a statutory notice to him and posted the case to January 20. The Registrar of the IT-cum-Statistics department has given the court a copy of the impugned video in a CD which the court said should be kept in a sealed cover and placed before the bench on hearing dates.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/police-file-case-against-madras-hc-lawyer-for-improper-behaviour-during-trial-101640287695819.html
24-12-2021||India||Govt issues advisory on use of ed-tech firms for online coaching||New Delhi: The Centre on Thursday issued an advisory warning parents and students to be careful while opting for online coaching being offered by ed-tech (education powered by technology) companies. The government has asked stakeholders to carefully evaluate the “free services” promised by these companies. The ministry of education issued the advisory after several cases of fraud in ed-tech companies were reported.“It has come to the notice of the Department of School Education and Literacy that some ed-tech companies are luring parents in the garb of offering free services and getting the Electronic Fund Transfer (EFT) mandate signed or activating the auto-debit feature, especially targeting vulnerable families,” the ministry said. According to the advisory, parents and students have been asked to avoid the automatic debit option for payment of subscription fee to these companies as ed-tech companies may offer ‘free premium business models’ which may seem free at first, but for continuous learning access, students will have to opt for a paid subscription.“Activation of auto-debit may result in a child accessing the paid features without realising that he/she is no longer accessing the free services offered by the ed-tech company,” it stated. The government further warned parents and students against signing up for any loans and to avoid credit or debit card registration on apps of these ed-tech platforms, and advised against installing these apps on mobile phones without verifying their authenticity. “Do verify the quality of the content provided by the ed-tech companies and make sure that it is in line with the syllabus and your scope of study and is easily comprehensible by your child,” it added. Citing Consumer Protection (E-Commerce) Rules, 2020, the Ministry said, “No e-commerce entity shall adopt any unfair trade (marketing) practice, whether in the course of business on its platform or otherwise. It shall not falsely represent itself as a subscriber and post reviews about its products or misrepresent the quality or the features of any educational content and its learning tool.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/govt-issues-advisory-on-use-of-ed-tech-firms-for-online-coaching-101640286975636.html
24-12-2021||India||Altercation at temple function: Andhra police book cases against ex-Union minister Ashok Gajapathi Raju||Hyderabad The police in Andhra Pradesh’s Vizianagaram district on Thursday registered a case against former Union minister for civil aviation and senior Telugu Desam Party leader P Ashok Gajapathi Raju on the charges of obstructing the duties of government officials and damaging public properties. “We have registered a case following a complaint lodged by executive officer of Ramateertham temple D V V Prasad against Raju over an incident during the foundation stone-laying ceremony for temple renovation works on Wednesday,” Nellimarla sub-inspector of police B Ravindra Raju told HT. Ashok Gajapathi Raju, who happens to be a trustee of the Ramateertham temple, about 12 km from Vizianagaram town, entered into an altercation with the endowment department officials for not following the protocol during the ceremony, police said. He also shouted at the officials for not mentioning his name prominently in the plaque erected for the foundation stonelaying ceremony, while giving importance to YSR Congress party leaders, including ministers Botsa Satyanarayana, P Pushpa Srivani and Vellampalli Srinivas. This led to jostling between the YSRC leaders and Raju. “The executive officer complained that Raju had ransacked the plaque and obstructed the officials from discharging the duties,” the sub-inspector said. The police registered the case against Raju under Section 427 (damaging the public property by mischief) and Section 353 (obstructing the public servant from discharging his duties). Similar cases were booked against a couple of other TDP leaders accompanying Raju, the SI said. TDP leader Raju said Ramateertham temple was under the control of Maharaja Alak Narayan Society for Arts and Science (MANSAS) Trust of which he was the chairman. “The temple was built by my forefathers 400 years ago. It is being run by the trust and the government has nothing to do with it. But, the foundation stone programme was not discussed at the temple trust meeting and I was informed only after all the arrangements were made,” he said. He reminded that the executive officer (EO) had not received the cheque for ₹1 lakh donated by him for the renovation of the temple. “Fortunately, there is an endowments act prevailing in the state. Otherwise, I would have been stripped of the chairman post long ago,” Raju added. The EO claimed that there was no protocol violation in the foundation-laying ceremony and that due respect was given to Raju as the temple trustee.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/altercation-at-temple-function-andhra-police-book-cases-against-ex-union-minister-ashok-gajapathi-raju-101640286915622.html
24-12-2021||India||GoM on GST rate likely to submit report by February: Bommai||The Group of Ministers (GoM) on GST rate rationalisation is likely to submit its final report by February, Karnataka chief minister Basavaraj Bommai, who heads it, said on Thursday.The chief minister said this while replying to a debate on the supplementary estimates worth ₹3,577 crore that was passed in the Karnataka legislative assembly on Thursday.“I have held two meetings of the GoM so far, there are opposition states also, and I’m happy to say that I’ve been able to take everybody along -- CPI, Congress, BJP and others. We’ve been successful in bringing everybody on the same platform, as everybody works for public interest,” Bommai said.He also said that he expects the revenues to go up after the rates are rationalised.At present, there are four slabs -- 5, 12, 18 and 28 -- under the GST.Noting that he is in the middle of multiple challenges, Bommai, who also holds finance portfolio, said, “There’s the post-Covid recovery that we need to focus on, then there’s the threat of a new wave, the GST compensation regime is ending and our expenditure is rising. I’m in the middle of all this.” He said the state has achieved 67 per cent of the target own-tax revenue collection by the end of November. “The achievement is 71 per cent in commercial taxes, 68 per cent in excise, 66 per cent in stamps and registration and 54 per cent in motor vehicles tax.” “Even during Covid-19, we haven’t fallen behind revenue collection.” “There are goods that have a higher tax potential. For example, on arecanut, we got ₹8 crore excess GST in just one week. Similarly, there are products that have been neglected and we are concentrating on them,” he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/gom-on-gst-rate-likely-to-submit-report-by-februarybommai-101640286854333.html
24-12-2021||India||Kerala HC directs registrar to take action against ex-judge over FB posts||Thiruvananthapuram: The Kerala high court on Thursday directed the registrar to take action against a former judicial officer, S Sudeep, for making a series of attacks against the court and its order through social media. But Justice Devan Ramachandran refused to initiate contempt proceedings against him, saying the court did not wish to give him undue publicity. Sudeep had resigned from the judicial service in June this year when the high court started disciplinary proceedings against him for his comments on social media. But he continued to post comments criticising the judiciary, the court found. This was brought to the attention of the court by bar council member Mohammad Shah. He also cited a recent post on Facebook in which Sudeep allegedly ridiculed the judge for an order passed against the so-called antique collector Monson Mavunkal. The court said that the former judicial officer “disrespectfully commented on its order, made personal attacks against the judge and added certain opinion of his which prima facie could only be thought to be intended to derail this case and to take it to a different trajectory.” Though Sudeep was summoned, he did not appear in the court. “The tragedy with the present day is that busybodies feel they can comment about anything on social media under the impression that no accountability will come on them. Social media is good in the hands of good and worthy. But for some it is unrestrained playground …One can only leave them to their mischief until long arms of law reach them,” Justice Devan Ramachandran observed. The court also noted that Sudeep was projecting himself as a martyr and threatening to harm himself. Sudeep, a sub-judge, had resigned from the judicial service in June after the high court started disciplinary action against him after he openly criticised the judiciary for not releasing Jesuit priest and tribal rights activist Father Stan Swamy who later died in a hospital in Maharashtra. Later the HC had set up a panel that found that he repeatedly violated a 2017 circular, which restrained judicial officers from making comments on sensitive issues.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/kerala-hc-directs-registrar-to-take-action-against-ex-judge-over-fb-posts-101640286745125.html
24-12-2021||India||Plans to introduce new employment policy soon: Bommai||Karnataka chief minister Basavaraj Bommai on Thursday said his government plans to introduce a new employment policy soon, which will give impetus to job creation and reduce unemployment in the state.Speaking after inaugurating the Jobs Fair at the Gogte Engineering College here held under the auspices of the Skills Development Corporation, Bommai said jobless youths were being given an honorary employment dole to encourage them to find employment.The government will henceforth encourage such institutions which are engaged in generating higher number of employment opportunities, he said.“The thrust and focus of our government will now be on enhancing the quality of education, skills and creation of employment opportunities. The new education policy lays stress on job vocational courses and work closely with the industry and its demands,” the chief minister said.He also said there is a need to upgrade higher education and professional courses to global learning standards and hence the higher education and skills development departments are working in unison to this effect.Speaking on the occasion, minister for IT-BT, science and technology, higher education and skills development C N Aswath Narayan said it was the responsibility of the government to ensure that students find jobs, which should commensurate with their skills and level of education. This is the whole idea of launching ‘jobs for all’ programme by the government, he explained.Further, Narayan said six universities in the state will be upgraded to the status of ‘University of Eminence’ and seven government-run engineering colleges in the state will be developed further to the level of IITs in Karnataka.He added that the government will come up with an action plan within a month to develop Visvesvaraya Technical University, which is headquartered in Belagavi.Meanwhile, a large number of job aspirants thronged the job fair in Belagavi. Majority of them were Bachelor of Engineering, Diploma in Engineering and Industrial Training Institute graduates from Belagavi and the neighbouring districts of Dharwad, Gadag, Vijayapura, Bagalkot, Uttar Kannada.The fair was held at the Gogte Engineering College premises in Belagavi. More than 5,400 students had registered their names in the skill portal by Wednesday evening to attend the fair.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/plans-to-introduce-new-employment-policy-soon-bommai-101640286742458.html
24-12-2021||India||Karnataka: Christian groups, Opposition slam passage of anti-conversion bill||With just a day to go before Christmas, the passage of the anti-conversion bill in the Karnataka assembly on Thursday has dampened spirits of the most important day of the year for the community, members of the church said. “We are really disappointed and sad that the government has passed this bill in the assembly in spite of our best efforts to reach out to the authorities to persuade them that it is not a good measure. It has hurt the community very much for all the services we have rendered to the community and to the nation. This bill has come as a severe blow to all our efforts and has dampened our spirits during the Christmas season,” JA Kanthraj, spokesperson for the Archdiocese of Bangalore, told Hindustan Times on Thursday. The statements come on the day the Basvaraj Bommai-led Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) government managed to get the Karnataka Protection of Right to Freedom of Religion Act, 2021 or anti-conversion bill passed in the lower house of the state legislature in the ongoing winter session in Belagavi, about 505 kms from Bengaluru. There have been a spate of attacks against members of the Christian community across several parts of Karnataka, including an incident reported on Thursday in Chikkaballapur district, about 60 kms from Bengaluru. Several members of the community as well as civil society have opposed the bill and expressed their intent to fight it out in court if it passes through the legislative council as well. “We will wait for final passage of the bill and then take the next step after consulting all our religious leaders,” Kantharaj said. The All India Lawyer’s Association for Justice (AILAJ) has called the bill unconstitutional. In a statement on Wednesday, Maitreyi Krishnan, co-convenor of AILAJ, said the bill was being introduced with “intent to stoke communal tensions.”The statement added that “the Bill only furthers communal tension and creates a divide in a society that is meant to be bound by the tenets of fraternity and secularism. The Bill strikes at the very heart of equality, liberty, and fraternity as envisaged in the Constitution, and must be immediately withdrawn.”The Congress, the principal opposition in Karnataka, put a stiff resistance against the passage of the bill but was on the backfoot after the BJP said that it was the Siddaramaiah-led state government in 2016 which had proposed to bring in the controversial bill.“Anti-conversion bill is the brainchild of @RSSorg. RSS followers had written a petition in 2009 to the law commission to draft anti-conversion bill when @BSYBJP was CM. Our govt had rejected that draft bill. Now @BJP4Karnataka has given life to it,” Siddaramaiah said in a twitter post. The Congress, nonetheless, opposed the bill and its implementation which it said was unconstitutional and inhuman. “@BJP4Karnataka leaders are spreading false news about the population of Hindus declining and that of Muslims & Christians increasing. The truth can be reviewed by seeing 2001 and 2011 census data,” Siddaramaiah said in a post on Twitter. “Art 21 & 25 of Indian Constitution guarantees freedom of religion and interfaith marriage. Then how can @BJP4Karnataka govt decide against it? For the same reason, Gujarat High Court has given a stay order for anti-conversion law that was enacted in Gujarat,” he said, adding that it was “cut & paste” from laws made in Uttar Pradesh and Madhya Pradesh.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/karnataka-christian-groups-opposition-slam-passage-of-anti-conversion-bill-101640286554392.html
24-12-2021||India||Mangaluru: Six held for assaulting fisherman over suspicion of mobile theft||Bengaluru: Police on Thursday arrested six fishermen for assaulting a colleague after hanging him upside down on a boat at the Mangaluru fishing harbour. Mangaluru South police station officials who made the arrests said the arrested men are from Andhra Pradesh, and that they assaulted their colleague over an alleged mobile theft. The arrests were made following a video of the assault was uploaded on social media. The 25-second video clip shows the man hanging upside down from the hook of a weighing machine. His feet are tied and he is stripped up to his waist. The video shows other fishermen surrounding him on the fishing boat. While some of them are heard shouting at him, one man steps ahead and slaps him. Giving details to the media, Mangaluru police commissioner N Shashi Kumar said the incident took place on December 15. “An FIR was registered under multiple sections of IPC after a few fishermen, in a video, were seen thrashing another fisherman on a fishing boat for allegedly stealing a mobile phone,” said Kumar. The police have arrested the accused and seized the wooden plank, iron chain, rope, and mobile handset. The arrested accused are identified as Karapingara Ravi (27), Konduru Polayya (23), Avula Rajakumar (26), Pralayakaveri Govindayya (47), Katangari Manohar (21), Votukuri Jalayya (30), all from Prakasam district of Andhra Pradesh. The victim, identified as Vaila Sheenu and a resident of Prakasam district, works as a fishing labourer. According to police, on December 14 night, Sheenu visited a boat --John Shailesh 2 – which was at the harbour. After spending some time in the boat, he returned to his own boat. “The next day morning the fishing labourers of the boat John Shailesh 2 came to Sheenu and accused him of stealing a mobile from their boat. They took him to their boat and hung him upside down. The fishermen hit him with hand, wooden planks, and an iron chain,” said said Kumar.Police said a case of attempt to murder has been registered against the accused since they also threatened to murder Sheenu and the hanging was a demonstration of their intent to throw him into the sea with his hands and legs tied, police added. The case was filed at Mangaluru South police station on December 21. 
24-12-2021||India||Bengaluru Urban fully vaccinated: Govt||Karnataka health minister K Sudhakar on Thursday said Bengaluru Urban has become the first district in the state to achieve 100% coronavirus vaccination coverage.This means the entire population of the district, excluding the Bruhat Bengaluru Mahanagara Palike (BBMP) area, has now been fully vaccinated with both doses of the Covid-19 shot. “Bengaluru Urban (excluding BBMP) has become the first district in Karnataka to achieve 100% second dose coverage. Congratulations to all the health workers and the district administration for this remarkable feat,” the minister posted his official Twitter handle.Bruhat Bengaluru Mahanagara Palike (BBMP) has covered more than 8.3 million of its 9.1 million adult population with the first dose, crossing the 91 per cent mark. Belagavi, Chikkaballapur, and Davanagere, which have covered 98% of the eligible population with the first dose, are the other districts to have inched closer to the 100 per cent coverage mark.12 new cases of OmicronMeanwhile, 12 new cases of the Omicron variant have been detected in Karnataka on Thursday, the health minister said, adding that with these fresh infections, a total of 31 such cases have been found in the southern state so far. “12 new cases of Omicron have been confirmed in Karnataka today taking the tally to 31,” the minister tweeted, sharing a list of new patients infected with the strain.Among the 12 new cases, 10 were reported from Bengaluru, of which seven were foreign returnees. Among those, five passengers arrived from the United Kingdom, while one each landed from Nigeria and Denmark. Of the remaining two, Mangaluru and Mysuru reported one case each, both foreign arrivals (Ghana and Switzerland, respectively).On Tuesday, considering a rise in Omicron cases, chief minister Basavaraj Bommai had said that the new year celebrations at public places will take place in a restricted manner, with celebrations allowed in restaurants and clubs with 50% seating capacity and mandatory full vaccination.“For new year events, the Karnataka government has made full vaccination mandatory, and permitted celebrations in clubs and restaurants, albeit at only 50 per cent of the total capacity. No special events, Disk Jockeys (DJ) will be allowed in the celebrations. The restrictions will be in effect from December 30 till January 2,” Bommai had said. Meanwhile, pub and restaurant operators in Bengaluru have urged the state government to reconsider restricting the occupancy, highlighting that the industry has been struggling for the past two years and the decision is going to hit it again.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/bengaluru-urban-fully-vaccinated-govt-101640286315747.html
24-12-2021||India||Man held for stealing firearms, ammunition from CM Mamata’s security staff||A man was arrested for stealing the bag of West Bengal chief minister Mamata Banerjee’s security personnel, which contained two Glock pistols and 20 rounds of ammunition, from a moving train. Police have recovered both the firearms and the ammunition among other items that belonged to the security personnel such as his bag, mobile phone, documents and money. “The arms were stolen from the down Kanchenjunga Express around 4:45 am near New Cooch Behar railway station when the security personnel were returning from Assam. A special investigation team was formed on Wednesday to recover the lost items,” said a senior officer. After her party’s landslide victory in the Kolkata Municipal Corporation election on December 21, the chief minister had gone to Assam to offer prayers at the Kamakhya Temple. Some of the security personnel were returning by train after duty. “The entire operation was code named ‘Baby’. Raids were conducted, a few people were detained for interrogation and searches were carried out at multiple places following which a man named Tapan Barman was detained,” said the officer. The bag, along with money and documents, was recovered from him. He told the police that he had hidden the fire arms in a bush beside the railway tracks near the Cooch Behar railway station. “The Glock pistols and 20 rounds of ammunition were recovered from beside the railway tracks. The mobile phone was recovered from Alipurduar district,” said the official.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/man-held-for-stealing-firearms-ammunition-from-cm-mamata-s-security-staff-101640286314357.html
24-12-2021||India||TRF says it carried out attack on J&K cop, civilian||The Resistance Front (TRF), an outfit affiliated with Pakistan-based Lashkar-e-Taiba (LeT), has claimed responsibility for the killing of a civilian and police officer in Kashmir Valley.In a statement released soon after the killings, the organisation said that its Gazi Squad was behind the targeted attacks in Srinagar and Anantnag on Wednesday. The civilian, Rouf Ahmad, 45, was shot at by unidentified gunmen in Eidgah area of Srinagar on Wednesday evening. Ahmad, who worked as a property dealer, was rushed to hospital, where he succumbed to injuries. In another attack, later in the evening, unidentified gunmen fired at a police officer near Bijbehara police station in Anantnag. The officer, assistant sub-inspector (ASI) Mohammad Ashraf, 51, also succumbed to injuries in the hospital.In its statement, which was seen by HT, the terror outfit alleged that Ahmad was working for police and was under the radar of TRF cadres. “Rouf was very close to the cargo (police) and has been under surveillance for a long time,” the statement said. The TRF statement did not mention the reason behind the attack on the officer.Wednesday’s incidents were the latest in the spate of attacks on civilians and minorities over the past three months by small terror modules that has brought back memories of the targeted killings that were reported in Kashmir at the start of militancy in the early 1990s.At least 11 people, many of them non-local residents and from Hindu and Sikh communities, have been killed in the region since October, triggering alarm among residents and authorities.Kashmir lost its special status and statehood in a controversial central government decision on August 5, 2019. Resentment about the move continues to simmer in the Valley but the government has repeatedly said that terror attacks have deceased since the voiding of Article 370. On Wednesday, the government told the Rajya Sabha that the number of terrorist incidents decreased from 417 in 2018 to 203 (up to November 30) in 2021.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/trf-says-it-carried-out-attack-on-j-k-cop-civilian-101640286136295.html
24-12-2021||India||High alert sounded across state; police to undetake review of security measures||A high alert was sounded in Punjab following the blast at a court complex in Ludhiana on Thursday.In an internal communication to field officers, Punjab Police headquarters has ordered an immediate review of security arrangments with internal inputs of possibilities of grenade attacks. HT has a copy of the order.“There are specific inputs from various sources that grenade may be used to target police stations, government buildings and religious temples,” the communication asserted.The orders states that in the wake of recent attempts of sacrilege incidents and a “charged atmosphere”, there is an immediate need to review and strengthen security arrangements at temples, gurudwaras and other religious places.Senior officials of the internal security wing have termed the blast as an act of terror.According to initial findings, the blast may be part of a conspiracy of the same module that had hired two persons to deliver tiffin bombs in Jalalabad in Fazilka district in September this year.
24-12-2021||India||SAD leader Bikram Majithia moves court seeking anticipatory bail in drugs case||Chandigarh: Shiromani Akali Dal (SAD) leader Bikram Singh Majithia on Thursday filed an anticipatory bail application before a court in Mohali, three days after he was booked under the Narcotic Drugs and Psychotropic Substances (NDPS) Act.The bail application was filed by 46-year-old former minister’s counsel DS Sobti.Majithia was booked under relevant sections of the NDPS Act based on a 2018 status report of investigation into a drug racket in Punjab. The report was filed by the chief of anti-drug special task force (STF), Harpreet Singh Sidhu, in the Punjab and Haryana high court.Majithia had earlier denied all charges against him and his party had called the registration of FIR against him as “political vendetta”.The Punjab police have been looking for the SAD leader to arrest him in the case.A lookout circular, which prevents a person from leaving the country, had also been issued against Majithia, who is the brother-in-law of SAD chief Sukhbir Singh Badal and brother of former Union minister Harsimrat Kaur Badal.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/sad-leader-bikram-majithia-moves-court-seeking-anticipatory-bail-in-drugs-case-101640286074343.html
24-12-2021||India||DRDO successfully tests Pralay missile for second day in a row||India on Thursday successfully tested the locally developed surface-to-surface missile Pralay, the second test of the conventional missile in two days, the defence ministry announced.The Defence Research and Development Organisation (DRDO) tested the missile from Dr APJ Abdul Kalam Island off the Odisha coast. It has a range of 150 to 500 kilometre, depending on payload, and can be launched from a mobile launcher. “In Thursday’s launch, the missile was tested for heavier payload and different range to prove the precision and lethality of the weapon,” the ministry said in a statement. The launch was monitored by range sensors and instruments, including telemetry, radar and electro-optic tracking systems deployed along India’s eastern coast and ships positioned near the impact point. The flight test met all the mission objectives, the ministry said. The twin flight tests came days after India tested an advanced variant of the Agni class of missiles from the Dr APJ Abdul Kalam Island test facility on December 18. The new generation nuclear-capable ballistic missile, named Agni P, can strike targets at a maximum range of 2,000 km and will further strengthen India’s credible deterrence capabilities, as previously reported. It is a canisterised missile with a range between 1,000 and 2,000 km. The other variants of the Agni missiles developed by DRDO include the 700-km Pakistan-specific Agni-I, the 2,000-km range Agni-II, the 3,000-km range Agni-III, 4,000-km range Agni-IV and the 5,000-km range Agni-V missile. The Agni P test came a week after India successfully tested a new locally-developed anti-tank missile and concluded a series of tests of extended range rockets also developed indigenously, weapons that will be inducted into the armed forces shortly. The weapons successfully tested on December 11 were the helicopter launched stand-off anti-tank (SANT) missile and Pinaka extended range (ER) rocket systems. SANT has a range of 10 km. The new Pinaka rocket system has longer range with reduced length compared to the earlier variant. While Pinaka Mk-1 rockets have a range of 36 km, the ER variant can hit targets more than 48 km away and has been developed as per the requirements of the Indian Army.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/drdo-successfully-tests-pralay-missile-for-second-day-in-a-row-101640286014140.html
24-12-2021||India||Anti-national forces trying to spread anarchy in Punjab: Channi||As a blast rocked the district courts complex in Ludhiana on Thursday, Punjab chief minister Charanjit Singh Channi said “anti-national forces are trying to spread anarchy in the state” as assembly polls draw closer.One person was killed and six others were injured in the explosion. In a communication, the Union home ministry asked the Punjab government to send a report as early as possible, giving details of the incident. The ministry also asked the state government to inform it about the findings of the initial investigation and who could be possibly involved in the explosion, officials said.The chief minister, at a public meeting in Mullanpura Dakha, sought to draw a parallel between the registration of an FIR against Akali leader Bikram Singh Majithia and the blast that rocked Ludhiana city as well as the recent sacrilege bids.He questioned why such a horrendous incident took place only after Majithia was cornered by the law.Majithia (46) was on Monday booked under the Narcotic Drugs and Psychotropic Substances Act on the basis of a 2018 status report of a probe into a drug racket in the state.Channi visited the hospital and inquired about the health of those injured in the blast.Talking to reporters in Ludhiana, he said prima facie it appeared that the person who died in the incident was carrying the bomb. He said the body has not been removed from the site so that the crime scene is not tampered with.“It seems there is an attempt to spread anarchy as the polls are nearing. Which forces, agencies or gang are behind this… Investigation is on in the case and we will get to the bottom of it,” Channi said.“I want to make it clear that peace will be maintained at any cost. Our police is capable of maintaining law and order… Anyone who indulges in such acts will be dealt with sternly,” he added.Asked if it appeared to be a suicide attack and why this particular day might have been chosen, Channi said, “Sometimes it appears we are doing political talk. Ever since we started acting against the drug menace, such incidents are happening.”He referred to the sacrilege attempt at the Golden Temple and another incident at a gurdwara in Kapurthala where he said “no sacrilege took place”.Former Punjab chief minister Capt Amarinder Singh expressed his condolences on Twitter.“Disturbing news of a blast at Ludhiana court complex. Saddened to know about the demise of 2 individuals, Praying for the recovery of those injured. @PunjabPoliceInd must get to the bottom of this,” Singh tweeted.Shiromani Akali Dal chief Sukhbir Singh Badal expressed shock over the blast.“Shocked by news of blast at Ludhiana dist court where 2 people lost their lives & several injured. May Guru Sahib grant peace to departed souls & fast recovery to injured. Pb govt must focus on law & order instead of political vendetta to ensure peace & communal harmony in State,” said Badal.Punjab Congress chief Navjot Singh Sidhu expressed condolences to those who lost their lives in the blast and termed it a “planned conspiracy” to create a law and order problem.Sidhu said, “It also calls for eternal vigilance coupled with a strong commitment to Guru Gobind Singh ji’s message which signifies unity in diversity in the face of adversity that Punjab is facing in the form of sacrilege and bomb blasts.”AAP leader and Delhi chief minister Arvind Kejriwal said some people want to disturb the peace in Punjab.“First sacrilege, now blast. Some people want to disturb the peace of Punjab. Three crore people of Punjab will not allow their plans to succeed,” said Kejriwal.Congress leader Rahul Gandhi condemned the blast and called for strict action against those guilty.“The blast in Ludhiana is extremely condemnable. My condolences to the families of those who have lost their lives and prayers for the quick recovery of the injured. Strict action must be taken at the earliest against those guilty,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/antinational-forces-trying-to-spread-anarchy-in-punjab-channi-101640285896028.html
24-12-2021||India||SC must step in to oversee probe into Ayodhya land case: Priyanka Gandhi||Congress general secretary Priyanka Gandhi Vadra on Thursday dismissed as an “eyewash” an investigation ordered by the Uttar Pradesh government into the alleged Ayodhya land fraud case and sought the intervention of Supreme Court in the matter. The Congress leader also accused the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) of hurting the sentiments of people who donated for the construction of Ram Temple by indulging in “corruption”. “In the area around Ram Temple, people from BJP are buying and selling land to benefit themselves and using the temple trust’s money for this purpose. People all over the country have given money to this trust. There is blatant misuse and wholesale corruption happening,” she told reporters here citing a report in The Indian Express here.“In my view, the Supreme Court should suo motu intervene as we are talking about the faith of millions, including poor people who have given their savings to the trust. It is some moral responsibility -- owed to them. It is very clear that the officer of that level cannot investigate the mayor of Ayodhya,” she said.She also alleged that land belonging to Dalits which is not allowed to be sold is also being “usurped” and illegally bought by officials and their relatives.Hitting back, BJP manifesto committee vice president Brij Lal said Priyanka does not have any right to speak on the issue. “Priyanka Gandhi has no right to speak on this issue because her own husband has been found guilty in irregular land purchases in Haryana and Rajasthan. He bought land worth crores in these states. She did not speak anything on it,” he told news agency ANI.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/sc-must-step-in-to-oversee-probe-into-ayodhya-land-case-priyanka-gandhi-101640285894389.html
24-12-2021||India||150-year-old church vandalised in Karnataka’s Chikkaballapur district: Police||Bengaluru: A 150-year-old church was allegedly vandalised by unidentified people in Karnataka’s Chikkaballapur district, 65 km from Bengaluru, in the wee hours of Wednesday, police said. The miscreants vandalised the statue of St Antony, at St Joseph’s church, in Susaipalaya area, they added. The incident came to light when a parishioner, who arrived for prayers at around 6 am, found the broken statue and informed the parish priest. In his complaint, the church authority said a large stone was found near the broken statue.Based on the priest’s complaint, Chikkabalapur police arrived and took away the statue for investigation. “We are looking at CCTV footage and other evidence. We have posted constables at the church and an investigation is underway. We will be looking at all angles,” a senior district police officer said, requesting anonymity.The incident came hours before the Karnataka legislative assembly passed the contentious “anti-conversion bill”, amid din, to prevent “unlawful conversions”. It is also the latest in the spate of attacks on various Christian groups. Members of right-ring groups set ablaze Christian religious books alleging religious conversion by the church while a viral video purportedly showed a man chasing a priest with a machete earlier this month.A viral video on social media last month showed members of the Bajrang Dal barging into a prayer hall and stopping a service mid way in Hassan district. In a similar incident in September, a group of right-wing activists barged into a Christian prayer hall Karkala in Udupi district and allegedly attacked devotees while a prayer meeting was underway. A fact finding report by several civil society organisations earlier in December claimed that Karnataka was witnessing one of the highest incidents of attack against Christians due to the government’s “attitude”. The report by United Christian Forum (UCF), Association for Protection of Civil Rights (APCR), and United Against Hate also claimed that Karnataka ranks third among states with the most number of attacks on the community and their places of worship in India.A separate report released by People’s Union for Civil Liberties (PUCL) last week documented 39 instances of attacks on Christians in the state this year.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/150yearold-church-vandalised-in-karnataka-s-chikkaballapur-district-police-101640285834241.html
24-12-2021||India||TMC’s Firhad Hakim is Kolkata mayor again, Mamata says will hold regular reviews||West Bengal chief minister Mamata Banerjee on Thursday declared state transport and housing minister and senior Trinamool Congress (TMC) leader Firhad Hakim as mayor of Kolkata Municipal Corporation, and said the work of the civic body will be reviewed every six months. The TMC chief also named party leaders Atin Ghosh and Mala Roy as deputy mayor and chairman of the civic body, respectively. “Plan our work and do it fast. Don’t keep them pending thinking that you have five years in hand. I will seek a progress report after six months. After every six months, a review would be done to check the progress. Those who fail to work will face action,” the chief minister said as she also announced the names of 13 mayors-in-council.The ruling TMC in the state won the KMC polls which were held on Sunday with comfortable margins in 134 wards, while the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) came second with three seats and the Congress and the Left won from two civic wards each. The results of the polls were declared on Tuesday. Independent candidates secured the remaining three of the 144 wards in the Bengal capital.The BJP, which was in control of five wards in the last civic board, lost control over two. The TMC’s tally was set to touch 137 as the three independent candidates expressed eagerness to join the ruling party.The civic body was being run by a board of administrators, led by Hakim, after the five-year tenure of the previous board ended in May last year. A special arrangement was subsequently made as the civic elections could not be held in view of the Covid-19 outbreak then.Hakim said the civic body will prepare its plans soon. “We will chalk out a plan for the KMC very soon. Our first manifesto would be to fulfill the promises made in the manifesto,” he said. Elections to more than 100 other civic bodies across the state are also pending for more than a year now. Earlier in the day, the state election commission informed Calcutta high court that it proposes to hold elections to five municipalities - Asansol, Bidhannagar, Siliguri, Howrah and Chandannagar - on January 22 and elections to the remaining 119 civic bodies on February 27. A division bench comprising Chief Justice Prakash Shrivastava and Justice R Bharadwaj had directed the state and the SEC to disclose a tentative time schedule for holding the poll to the municipal bodies at the earliest in minimum number of phases. The court during the day also took up petitions alleging violation of its directions during the December 19 Kolkata Municipal Corporation poll.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/tmcs-firhad-hakim-is-kolkata-mayor-again-mamata-says-will-hold-regular-reviews-101640285717712.html
24-12-2021||India||CJI expresses shock over Ludhiana court blast, terms such attacks as ‘worrisome trend’||New Delhi Chief Justice of India (CJI) N V Ramana Thursday expressed deep shock over the blast inside the Ludhiana district courts complex that left one person dead and three others injured, saying such incidents in quick succession across the country is a “worrisome” trend.He hoped that law-enforcing agencies will pay necessary attention to ensure protection for the court complexes and all the stake holders.Expressing grave concern at the “lack of adequate security in court complexes”, he said “Such incidents occurring in quick succession across the country are a worrisome trend.” The CJI also called Chief Justice of the Punjab and Haryana High Court Ravi Shankar Jha to inquire about the development.Justice Ramana offered condolences to the bereaved members of the family of the deceased and wished speedy recovery of those injured.The blast took place in the washroom of the second floor of the court complex and was so powerful that one of the walls in the complex got damaged and windows of some vehicles parked in the premises were shattered. The district court was functioning when the blast took place.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/cji-expresses-shock-over-ludhiana-court-blast-terms-such-attacks-as-worrisome-trend-101640285593478.html
24-12-2021||India||Birla, Naidu discuss attendance of MPs in Parliament panel meets||Minutes after a tumultuous winter session of Parliament ended on Wednesday, at a lively yet informal gathering of senior lawmakers in Rajya Sabha chairman Venkaiah Naidu’s chamber, a lengthy discussion kicked off on attendance in parliamentary committee meetings, people familiar with the matter said.Earlier, on Monday, in a rare meeting between Lok Sabha Speaker and panel chairpersons, a similar discussion on attendance led to several ideas being put forth, including taking a more lenient view on appearance of MPs and the quorum or minimum attendance of 10 (one-third of panel) not being made mandatory for all meetings. The Speaker’s meeting was attented by the chairpersons of the 16 department-related standing committees. “At least three chairpersons at the Speaker’s meeting suggested that the quorum should not /only be required for preparing or adopting a report. They argued that often the witnesses, many of whom come from other places to Delhi, are forced to return without deposition for lack of quorum,” said a senior leader present in the meeting. Birla assured the members that this proposal would be discussed in Rules Committee and General Purpose Committee for approval, another leader said. The Speaker also suggested that parliamentary committees should constantly interact with state legislative committees for capacity-building, and all House panels must be strengthened to ensure the accountability of the government, he added. “The Speaker said that all panel chiefs can even talk to parliamentary committees of other countries to share best practices. He also wanted panels to call subject experts to make the reports more research-based,” the second leader said. Among crucial suggestions given to the Speaker, one was that panel chairpersons can be authorised to brief the media to ensure credibility and veracity of reports on panel meetings, and avoid leakage. “This way the House panels can put out the official version of what happened in the proceedings without being in breach of Parliamentary privilege,” said a thirdleader, recounting the conversation. The discussions in a Committee are confidential until reports are tabled in Parliament. The chairman of a financial committee demanded that more bills should be referred to panel, while another MP suggested that the human resources available to the Committees should be bolstered to ensure maximum output.During the winter session, Prime Minister Narendra Modi himself stressed on better attendance and criticised his own party members for ‘poor attendance’ at a meeting of the BJP lawmakers. For the past few years, both Naidu and Birla have been track of attendance of MPs in House committees. A Lok Sabha official pointed out that some MPs were shifted out of other panels due to lack of attendance. Meanwhile, at Naidu’s meeting on Wednesday, “much time was spent on attendance in these meetings after the Leader of Rajya Sabha, Union minister Piyush Goyal raised the topic”, said a functionary. Naidu told the leaders that he has been closely monitoring the attendance in the meetings of the eight Committees of Rajya Sabha, and that attendance has improved substantially over the last three years. He further said these committees are hugely complementing the Parliament in its functions, the functionary added.. 
24-12-2021||India||Telangana high court directs state to impose curbs on gatherings amid concernsover new variant||Hyderabad: The Telangana high court on Thursday expressed serious concerns over the surge in cases of Omicron variant of Covid-19 in the state and asked the government to strictly impose restrictions on Christmas, New Year and Sankranti festival celebrations.There were, however, no fresh cases of Omicron variant in the state on Thursday, even as genome sequencing reports of 10 more Covid-19 patients are still awaited, health officials said. The state till Thursday evening has reported 38 cases of Omicron variant. A division bench of the chief justice Satish Chandra Sharma and justice N Tukaramji directed the state government to strictly comply with the latest directives issued by the Union government to prevent the spread of Omicron variant of coronavirus.It also directed the state government to take up all steps for the control and management of large public gatherings during the ensuing festival season. “The mass gathering of people without wearing masks and following minimum precautions is a matter of concern,” it said.State health minister T Harish Rao told reporters that the government would follow all the directions given by the court. Meanwhile, a village in Rajanna Siricilla district on Thursday went into a self-imposed lockdown for 10 days following the surfacing of an Omicron variant case on Wednesday. A 28-year-old man, who returned from Dubai to his native village of Gudem in Mustabad block on December 16, tested positive for the virus on December 20. His wife and mother also tested positive for Covid-19 a day later.The throat swab samples of the man and his family members were sent to the Centre for Cellular and Molecular Biology for genome sequencing. On Wednesday, it was revealed that the Gulf-returnee was positive for Omicron. He was immediately shifted to Hyderabad for quarantine. The results of the other two, who were home quarantined, are still awaited.The villagers held an emergency meeting on Thursday morning and resolved that the entire village should observe lockdown. “It is very unfortunate, but we have no other alternative. Except for a couple of hours in the morning hours for essential services, the entire village would be shut down for 10 days. We have asked the people not to come out of their houses except for emergency needs,” Gudem village upa-sarpanch S Srinivasa Rao told HT.He said the authorities had collected 64 samples of the primary contacts of the 28-year-old man and sent them for tests. “All of them were sent to home quarantine. We have also informed our decision to higher officials,” Rao said.According to him, the man had also attended a wedding function at the adjacent Narayanapur village of Yellareddypet mandal on Sunday. “The authorities have also collected samples of 53 persons who came in contact with him at the function. They have also been sent for testing,” he added.
24-12-2021||India||Speaker nod to merger of Congress MLAs with TMC in Meghalaya||Meghalaya assembly speaker Metbah Lyngdoh on Thursday recognised the merger of the 12 Congress MLAs with the Trinamool Congress (TMC) -- a month after the legislators decided to switch sides in a sudden move.“I am satisfied that the merger of the 12 members of Indian National Congress is valid as provided under paragraph 4 of the 10th Schedule to the Constitution of India and doesn’t attract disqualification,” Lyngdoh said in a bulletin.“I do not find any merits in the submissions made in the petitions filed by Dr. M Ampareen Lyngdoh, MLA, (Congress legislature party leader) and therefore the same is dismissed,” the bulletin added.The 12 legislators -- former chief minister Mukul Sangma, Marthon Sangma, Jimmy Sangma, Lazarus Sangma, Miani Shira, HM Shangpliang, George Lyngdoh, Winnerson Sangma, Dikkanchi Shira, Zenith Sangma, Charles Pyngrope and Shitlang Pale -- handed over the letter of merger to the Speaker on November 24.The Congress had challenged the merger and sought the disqualification of the MLAs. Congress leader in the legislative assembly, M Ampareen Lyngdoh, on November 29 filed 10 petitions with the Speaker seeking the disqualification of the 12 legislators. She filed two more petitions earlier this month.The speaker last monthissued notices to the MLAs asking them to submit their response to the plea. However, upon receiving the response from the MLAs, he approved their merger with the TMC.“The speaker has decided, and I respect his order. I will not pursue this petition forward because our campaign will take priority in 2022. The party however may have a different view on the matter,” Ampareen Lyngdoh said on Thursday. “As a CLP (Congress legislative party), we took the available space to move a petition against the desertion, this being an opportunity to object to the manner in which the exodus disclosed, hence no regret on that.”“The speaker has decided, and I respect his order. The party however may have a different view on the matter,” Ampareen Lyngdoh, who had filed 10 pleas, said.Meghalaya president of TMC unit Charles Pyngrope told HT: “I’m sure the Speaker has exercised his prudence after due study of all the Constitutional provisions and the Anti Defection Act to come to such a conclusion.”With inputs from David Laitphlang in Shillong
24-12-2021||India||Night curfew imposed in Madhya Pradesh as states report rise in Omicron cases||New Delhi: The Madhya Pradesh government on Thursday imposed a night curfew from 11 am to 5 pm across the state, amid fears of surge in cases of the Omicron variant of SARS-CoV-2 virus that causes Covid-19 across the country. “After five months, the number of Covid-19 positive cases increase to 30 in a day. No case of Omicron has been reported from MP so far but we can’t take risk as positivity rate in neighbouring states is increasing. We are imposing night curfew in MP from 11 PM to 5 AM. If require, more restrictions will be invoked in MP,” chief minister Shivraj Singh Chouhan said on Thursday.With 30 fresh cases, the Covid-19 tally in Madhya Pradesh rose to 793,581 on Thursday, while the recovery count increased to 782,859 after 19 patients were discharged from hospitals, a health department official said, adding the death toll remained unchanged at 10,531.The night curfew has been invoked over a month after the state government ended all the restrictions related to Covid 19 on November 17.Madhya Pradesh became the second state after Gujarat to impose night curfew, even as Rajasthan is expected to decide on restrictions on Friday after a meeting of chief minister Ashok Gehlot with health officials. Madhya Pradesh has not reported any Omicron variant case so far even though 20 samples have been sent for genome sequencing.On Thursday, 90 new cases of Omicron variant of Covid-19 were reported taking the tally to 354. Out of these, 104 patients have recovered.As many as 33 new Omicron variant cases were reported from Tamil Nadu, which till a day ago had only one case. Karnataka reported 12 new cases, taking the state’s tally to 31 while five Omicron cases in Kerala took its tally to 29. Odisha, which had earlier reported two cases, added as many Omicron cases on Thursday. Till Thursday evening, Maharashtra has reported maximum 65 cases, followed by 64 in Delhi.According to health experts, Omicron spreads three times faster than the Delta variant, which was responsible for the devastating second wave of Covid-19 in April-May this year, but the infection is much milder.Health ministry officials said many of the Omicron cases in the country are either asymptomatic or have mild symptoms. Many of them have been discharged from hospitals, officials said. Delhi chief minister Arvind Kejriwal on Thursday said his government was preparing an action plan for home isolation of Omicron patients, if there is surge in Covid cases, as majority of the cases are of mild infections.Tamil Nadu health minister Ma Subramanian confirmed that 33 Omicron cases were reported from the state on Thursday while genome sequencing results of another 23 samples were awaited. Tamil Nadu had reported its first Omicron case on December 15, when a person travelling from Nigeria tested positive for the variant.“We took up contact tracing and tested all his family members and contacts,” Subramanian said, adding that they traced more than 4,000 people. Of those, 91 people tested positive for Covid-19 and 57 of them predominantly those who had returned from ‘at risk’ countries, in the state had shown an ‘S-gene drop’, which is a marker of probable Omicron.“The 33 new cases and the one old case with Omicron are from those 57 samples. All of them are being treated in hospital and they are doing well. There is no reason to fear,” the minister said, adding that most of them are fully vaccinated.Of the 34 cases, 26 patients are being treated at the King Institute in Chennai, four in Madurai, two in Tiruvannamalai and one patient in Salem. One person has been admitted in a hospital in Kerala, Subramanian said. Karnataka on Thursday reported 12 new Omicron cases, taking its tally to 31, state health minister Dr K Sudhakar said.“Seven of them are female, including two girls aged nine and 11 years old,” Sudhakar said, adding that 10 are from Bengaluru while one each is from Mysuru and Mangaluru.Among the Bengaluru cases, five had recently travelled from the United Kingdom while one each had come from Denmark and Nigeria. Three other cases in Bengaluru did not have a travel history. A 27-year-old man from Mangaluru had come from Ghana, while the nine-year-old girl from Mysuru had returned from Switzerland. According to health department officials, they have been isolated and were undergoing treatment.Kerala health minister Veena George said that five more cases of the Omicron variant detected, taking the total number of infected to 29. Four people, who reached Ernakulam, and a native of Kozhikode district have been detected with the variant. Two persons, aged 28 and 24 who arrived from the United Kingdom, a 35-year-old person who came from Albania and another one from Nigeria were among those found infected in Ernakulam, George said in a statement.The man who was found infected in Kozhikode was the one who came to the state from Bengaluru airport. “Of the total infected, 17 have reached the state from high-risk countries and 10 from low-risk nations. Two persons have contracted the virus through contact,” George said, adding that all the infected were under treatment in hospitals and their contact list was being prepared. The state had detected first Omicron case on December 12 in Ernakulam district when a person who returned from the UK tested positive.Two more cases of Omicron reported in Odisha on Thursday taking the total count to four, state health officials said. They said the government had not imposed any restrictions for Christmas and New Year celebrations except ban on entry into some popular temples such as Maa Tarini temple in Keonjhar district on December 25, December 30, January 1 and January 2.On Thursday, Uttar Pradesh, where two Omicron cases were reported on December 18, chief minister Yogi Adityanath asked all district officials to take appropriate steps according to the latest guidelines issued by the central government to check the spread of Omicron variant.A senior government official said that district magistrates have been empowered to impose restrictions for Christmas and New Year celebrations and enforce Covid-19 protocols.State’s health and family welfare minister Jai Pratap Singh said hospitals including community health centres have been equipped with adequate resources, beds, ventilators, oxygen supply and medicines.In Himachal Pradesh, too, the district magistrates have been empowered to impose restrictions in case the test positivity rate in a week increases to over 10%. At present, the test positivity rate in state in less than 1%. Issuing an advisory to all chief medical officers across the 12 districts, health department officials said, “Measures need to be taken in view of initial signs of a surge in Covid cases, as well as increased detection of the variant of concern (VoC), Omicron.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/night-curfew-imposed-in-madhya-pradesh-as-states-report-rise-in-omicron-cases-101640285174201.html
24-12-2021||India||Want Myanmar to restore democracy: India||The speedy restoration of democracy and the fallout of instability in Myanmar on the security situation in India’s northeast, including the ambush on an Assam Rifles convoy in Manipur, were raised by foreign secretary Harsh Shringla in his meetings with Myanmar’s military leadership. Shringla, on a two-day working visit to Myanmar that started on Wednesday, met the State Administrative Council chairman, Gen Min Aung Hlaing, who has ruled the country since he seized power in a coup on February 1, and representatives of civil society and the opposition, including the National League for Democracy. The restoration of democracy and a complete end to violence figured in all these meetings, the external affairs ministry said in a statement on Thursday. Shringla also pointedly raised matters related to India’s security, especially in light of the ambush on the Assam Rifles convoy in Manipur’s Churachandpur district on November 13 that killed Col Viplav Tripathi, his wife and six-year-old son. The Indian side sought a meeting with deposed leader Aung San Suu Kyi but this was turned down by the authorities, people familiar with the matter said. Shringla began his visit in Naypyidaw, where he met the military leadership. He met political leaders, members of civil society, aid workers and foreign envoys in Yangon on Thursday. The Indian side has for long sought to strike a balance between backing the democratic process in Myanmar and maintaining cooperation with the military, mainly to contain the activities of insurgent groups from northeastern states that have bases in the neighbouring country. “During his meetings with all concerned, foreign secretary emphasised India’s interest in seeing Myanmar’s return to democracy at the earliest; release of detainees and prisoners; resolution of issues through dialogue; and complete cessation of all violence,” the statement said. Shringla reiterated India’s “strong and consistent” support to the Association of Southeast Asian Nations’ (Asean) initiative on Myanmar and expressed the hope that progress will be made in a “pragmatic and constructive manner” on the grouping’s five-point consensus. The external affairs ministry said India has been involved in the democratic transition in Myanmar and has worked with various stakeholders in developing capacities for democratic systems and practices. “India proposes to renew these efforts for Myanmar to emerge as a stable, democratic, federal union in accordance with the wishes of the people of Myanmar,” the statement said. The visit was also an opportunity to “raise matters relating to India’s security, especially in the light of the recent incident in Churachandpur district in southern Manipur”, the statement said, referring to the recent ambush that has been blamed on the militant groups People’s Revolutionary Party of Kangleipak (PREPAK) and People’s Liberation Army (PLA). Shringla “stressed the need to put an end to any violence and maintain peace and stability in the border areas”, the statement said. “Both sides reiterated their commitment to ensure that their respective territories would not be allowed to be used for any activities inimical to the other,” it added. Any developments in Myanmar “have a direct impact on India’s bordering regions”, and peace and stability in Myanmar “remain of utmost importance to India, specifically to its North Eastern Region”, the statement said. The people cited above said Shringla had detailed talks with political leaders, including from the National League for Democracy and pro-military Union Solidarity and Development Party, civil society, foreign envoys and representatives of the UN. In these discussions, the foreign secretary made it clear India favoured pragmatic dialogue to find a solution. He also highlighted how India is very concerned about developments, such as the recent conviction of Suu Kyi, which can undermine democratic transition, the people said. The foreign secretary also pointed to the impact of the instability in Myanmar on India’s strategic northeastern region, the people added. While pointing to the nearly 1,700-km border shared by the two countries, Shringla conveyed India’s continued humanitarian support for the people of Myanmar. He handed over one million doses of Made in India Covid-19 vaccines to the Myanmar Red Cross Society. Part of this consignment will be used for communities living along Myanmar’s border with India. A grant of 10,000 tonnes of rice and wheat for Myanmar was also announced by the Indian side. Shringla also expressed India’s continued support for socio-economic developmental projects, including those in the India-Myanmar border areas, and commitment to the speedy implementation of connectivity initiatives such as the Kaladan multimodal transit transport project, which will link Sittwe port in Rakhine state to Kolkata port and the Trilateral Highway between India, Myanmar and Thailand. He also reiterated India’s commitment to continue with projects under the Rakhine State Development Programme and Border Area Development Programme. 
24-12-2021||India||Karnataka assembly clears contentious conversion bill||The Karnataka legislative assembly on Thursday passed the contentious anti-conversion bill, amid Opposition protests. The legislation prohibits conversion from one religion to another by “misrepresentation, force, fraud, allurement or marriage”.The ruling Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) said the Karnataka Right to Freedom of Religion Bill, 2021, commonly referred to as the anti-conversion bill, was introduced to bring in “public order” and that it was the Congress-led government in 2016 that had first drafted it.However, the Congress called the bill “anti-human, anti-constitutional and anti-poor”.“This government could not solve economic and social issues in the last 2.5 years; (it) did not do anything for farmers, women or the poor. There are pressing issues but they (BJP) are bringing in such emotionally charged bills to deflect attention away from more important matters,” leader of the opposition in the assembly Siddaramaiah said on Thursday.The BJP presented documents to substantiate its claim that the Congress had first drafted the bill and had even asked for it to be presented in the cabinet in 2016, though it was never brought before it.Siddaramaiah alleged that the Rashtra Swayamsevak Sangh (RSS) was behind the bill. Chief minister Basavaraj Bommai said, “RSS is committed to anti-conversion, it is not a hidden secret... Why did the Congress government in 2016 initiate the bill during its tenure following the RSS’s policy? It is because Congress CM in Himachal Pradesh Virbhadra Singh had brought a similar law. You are a party to this bill.”Bommai said the bill is both constitutional and legal, and aimed at getting rid of the menace of religious conversion. “It is for a healthy society.... Congress is indulging in vote bank politics by opposing it now, their double standard is clear today.”The bill was passed by a voice vote, even as Congress members were protesting from the well of the House, demanding continuation of the debate on the bill that began on Thursday morning.The BJP said it has made “improvements” to the draft by the Congress five years ago, and included marriage and laying the burden of proof on those accused of converting person. The bill will now be placed in the state Legislative Council, where the BJP still does not have a majority.The Karnataka Right to Freedom of Religion Bill, 2021, states: “No person shall convert or attempt to convert, either directly or otherwise, any other person from one religion to another by use or practice of misrepresentation, force, undue influence, coercion, allurement or by any fraudulent means or by any of these means or by promise of marriage, nor shall any person abet or conspire such conversion: Provided that if any person reconverts to his immediate previous religion the same shall not be deemed to be a conversion under this Act.”The bill also states that anyone willing to convert will have to submit an application to the DC (district collector) who will scrutinise the application, interview the applicant to ascertain if the conversion is not by force or allurement. If the application is found to be genuine, then other departments will be informed to ensure the converting person loses benefits from his existing caste or religion and be included into the category into which the said person is converting.It also places restrictions on marriages done with the “sole purpose of unlawful conversion”, which lends to the belief that a separate legislation to amend the special marriage act might also be included in this law itself.Karnataka home minister Araga Jnanendra, who piloted the bill, said eight states have passed or were implementing such a law, and Karnataka would become the ninth one to do so.Modelled around similar legislations brought in various BJP-ruled states like Uttar Pradesh, Madhya Pradesh and Gujarat, the anti-conversion bill was passed at a time when there has been a rise in attacks on members of the Christian community in the state, whom several BJP legislators have openly decried as the main culprits behind a “conversion racket”.To be sure, the laws in Gujarat and Madhya Pradesh have been challenged in the courts.The bill also proposes an imprisonment from three to five years with a fine of ₹25,000, while for violation of provisions with respect to minors, women, SC/ST (Scheduled caste/scheduled tribe), offenders will face imprisonment from three to ten years and a fine of not less than ₹50,000. The bill also makes provisions for the accused to pay up to ₹5 lakh as compensation to those who were made to convert, and with regards to cases of mass conversion the bill proposes three-10 years jail term and a fine of up to ₹1 lakh.“What is the objection if we give more protection to SC/ST, women and minors? We know their condition... We need to provide them extra protection,” Bommai said.(Need expert/independent observer quotes)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/karnataka-assembly-clears-contentious-conversion-bill-101640284994247.html
24-12-2021||India||Rawat to meet Congress brass amid Uttarakhand rumblings||The Congress is making attempts to mollify party leader and former Uttarakhand chief minister Harish Rawat after his Twitter posts alleging lack of support from the party stirred a hornet’s nest in the state that is due to go to the polls early next year.The party’s general secretary in charge of organisation, KC Venugopal, reached out to Rawat on Thursday, and invited him for a meeting in the Capital, according to people aware of the matter.Rawat is expected to meet Rahul Gandhi at 10am on Friday, the people added.”It wasn’t a very elaborate conversation,’’ confirmed two Congress leaders on condition of anonymity. “Venogopal called him, and he agreed to come.”Venugopal was accompanying Rahul Gandhi on a trip to Kerala, and some other state leader’s may also meet him on Friday, one of the leaders indicated. The two leaders were confident that the party would be able to iron out any differences within the team running the election campaign in Uttarakhand.The latest controversy is a blow to the party, which has been tackling infighting in Punjab, Rajasthan, Chattisgarh, Kerala, and several other states, in recent months. And Congress MP, Manish Tewari, one of the “G23” (group of 23) leaders who wrote to president Sonia Gandhi seeking reforms in the party structure, pointed this out in a tweet on Thursday.“First Assam then Punjab now Uttarakhand... Bhog Poora Hi Paun Gaye/ Kasar Na Rahe Jawe Koi,” Tewari posted, along with a smiley face with sunglasses. A rough translation means, “let’s do it all, don’t leave any stone unturned”, and the references to the three states suggested his allusion was to former Congress leader Himanta Biswa Sarma, who is now Assam CM but with the Bharatiya Janata Party; former Punjab CM Amarinder Singh, who has now left the party and allied with the BJP ahead of next year’s elections; and now Rawat.The turn of events surrounding Rawat’s public ire is ironic because, just a few months ago, he was firefighting between Amarinder Singh and Navjot Singh Sidhu, the warring factions of the Punjab unit of the Congress, as the party’s general secretary in charge of the state.Rawat’s Twitter thread in Hindi on Thursday said: “Isn’t it strange, one has to swim in the sea in the form of forthcoming electoral battle... instead of cooperation, the organisational structure at most places is turning its face away or is playing a negative role... There are many crocodiles... On whose directions one has to swim, their nominees are tying my hands and feet.” He also said that he was contemplating retirement.For those familiar with Uttarakhand politics, the target of Rawat’s unhappiness was not too hard to figure out. A party official in the state contended that general secretary in charge Devendra Yadav, 49, who was appointed in September last year, was locked in a turf war with Rawat, 73, over who will call the shots in the poll campaign.Both Rawat and Yadav declined to comment but a person close to the former CM said that Yadav was micromanaging the poll campaign. Rawat’s grouse is that Yadav hasn’t included even one of his nominees in the state committeeThe Congress is looking to dislodge the BJP from power in the hill state, which Rawat served as CM between 2014 and 2017. The BJP is roiled by troubles of its own, and has changed its chief minister thrice in the last year. In the 70-member assembly, the BJP has 55 members and the Congress has 12.Amarinder Singh, who left the Congress in November, was among the first to respond to Rawat’s tweets. “You reap what you sow,” he wrote on Wednesday. Rawat’s team denied that the former CM would join any other party. ‘’If he is not allowed to function then he will just retire and not go to any other party,’’ they saidWhen contacted, Congress spokesman Randeep Surjewala simply said: “I don’t want to comment on tweets of Congress leaders.’’||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/rawat-to-meet-congress-brass-amid-uttarakhand-rumblings-101640284878021.html
24-12-2021||India||Kapurthala man who was lynched had 30 injuries: Autopsy||A medical board of five doctors in its postmortem examination of an unidentified man who was lynched at a gurdwara over an alleged sacrilege attempt found nearly 30 injuries to the body, the officiating senior medical officer at the Kapurthala civil hospital said on Thursday.Narinder Singh, the officer, addressed the media and said the injuries on the body established that the man was attacked with sharp weapons. He said the more severe injuries were on the neck, right hip and head apart from multiple stab wounds on various body parts, adding that viscera samples were collected for further examination to check if the man had consumed intoxicants while teeth, hair and blood samples were taken for a DNA test. “There were up to 30 total injuries on the body of the deceased; most of them were deep cuts,” Singh said. He said the exact cause of death will be clear from the final report. Police have neither registered a fresh FIR under murder charges nor added Section 302 of the IPC in the existing FIR registered against the deceased under Section 295-A (hurting religious sentiments), though officials had said earlier that they would probe the murder as part of the same FIR. Police officials privy to the development seeking anonymity said they have been investigating the matter from all angles and murder charges will be added soon. After the postmortem examination, the deceased was cremated and remained unidentified as no one arrived to claim the body, though it had been preserved by police for over 72 hours. Authorities failed to establish the identity of the youth, as was the case with the man beaten to death in the Golden Temple sacrilege incident.The man who appeared to be in his early of 20s, was beaten to death for allegedly desecrating a religious flag at a gurdwara in Punjab’s Kapurthala district on Sunday. Police, however, said there was “no visible sign” of sacrilege and it appeared as though the man had the intention of committing theft at the gurdwara. The case was registered on the statement of Amarjit Singh, caretaker of the gurdwara, against the youth under charges of hurting religious sentiments. In a video shared on social media, Amarjit Singh said that the youth had not committed any act of sacrilege with the Guru Granth Sahib and even had food at the gurdwara, claiming that the man was sent by someone from Delhi and paid money to commit sacrilege.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/kapurthala-man-who-was-lynched-had-30-injuries-autopsy-101640284814164.html
24-12-2021||India||‘AstraZeneca shots, booster effective against Omicron’||People who took AstraZeneca vaccines may be at a comparatively lower risk of needing to go to a hospital if they have been infected with the Omicron variant than those who took the mRNA vaccines, an early analysis of infection trends in England has suggested. A booster dose of the vaccine, which marketed as Vaxzevria globally and also manufactured and administered in India as Covishield, is also capable of triggering an improved antibody response, the company said separately on Thursday. The findings hold significant implication for India, where close to 90% of the 1.4 billion doses are of Covishield. An analysis by researchers at the Imperial College of London found there was a lower risk, when compared to Delta variant infections, of people with Omicron needing to go to a hospital when they were fully vaccinated with the AstraZeneca vaccine than when they took either the Moderna or the Pfizer-BioNTech vaccines. “Most intriguing is an apparent difference between those who received AstraZenca (AZ) vaccine versus Pfizer or Moderna (PF/MD) for their primary series (doses 1 and 2). Hazard ratios for hospital attendance with Omicron for those who received PF/MD as their primary vaccination schedule are similar to those seen for Delta in those vaccination categories, while Omicron hazard ratios are generally lower than for Delta for those who received AZ as their primary vaccination,” the report said, with the caveat that these were still early numbers.Experts said this could be because the AstraZeneca/Covishield vaccine produces a more robust cellular immunity – the more common measure of immunity is by accounting for antibodies, or humoral immunity – when compared to the others. “The AZ vaccine is known to induce better cellular (T cell) responses than the RNA vaccines; the latter induce higher titre neutralising antibodies. So, while the RNA vaccines would give better protection from infection and transmission, the AZ vaccine should protect better from severe disease. A University of Birmingham study showed this in people 80 and older. The older age group is also the one that shows more severe disease. This could be an explanation for the Imperial College observation,” said virologist Dr Shahid Jameel, research fellow at Green Templeton College, Oxford University.Separately, the company released data on how its boosters performed in lab analysis of antibody responses. “Neutralisation titres for Omicron were boosted following a third dose with Vaxzevria compared to titres after a second dose. The levels seen after the third dose booster were higher than the neutralising antibodies found in individuals who had been previously infected with and recovered naturally from COVID-19 (Alpha, Beta, Delta variants and original strain),” said AstraZeneca in a statement.Two doses of Vaxzevria have been associated with protection against the Delta variant in real world studies, but appeared to offer no protection against infection when compared to Omicron.It is important to note that the Imperial report relates to risk of needing a hospital visit.“It is very encouraging to see that current vaccines have the potential to protect against Omicron following a third dose booster. These results support the use of third dose boosters as part of national vaccine strategies, especially to limit the spread of variants of concern, including Omicron,” said John Bell, Regius professor of medicine, University of Oxford, UK, who is also one of the study investigators. “Vaxzevria plays an important role in vaccination programmes around the world and these data give us confidence that the vaccine should be given as a third dose booster. It is also important to look beyond antibodies to better understand how vaccines offer protection against Omicron. As we better understand Omicron, we believe we will find that T-cell response provides durable protection against severe disease and hospitalizations,” said Mene Pangalos, executive vice president, BioPharmaceuticals R&D, AstraZeneca. Experts in India have also been in favour of giving booster anti Covid-19 vaccine dose to those at high risk.“For subsets (immunocompromised), elderly, combormbities — it makes sense to protect them as much as possible. For the rest, who are generally healthy, timing and type of vaccine need data to back use,” said Gagandeep Kang, one of country’s top vaccine expert, and senior faculty at Christian Medical College, Vellore (Tamil Nadu).||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/astrazeneca-shots-booster-effective-against-omicron-101640284754448.html
24-12-2021||India||To contain possible Covid-19 spread, night curfew invoked in Madhya Pradesh||The Madhya Pradesh government has put in place night curfew from Wednesday, Chief Minister Shivraj Singh Chouhan said.“After five months, the number of Covid 19 positive cases has increased to 30 in a day. No case of Omicron has been reported from MP so far but we can’t take the risk as positivity rate of neighbouring states is increasing. We are imposing night curfew in MP from 11 pm to 8 am. If required, more restrictions will be invoked in the state,” Chouhan said.The night curfew has been invoked one month after the state government ended all restrictions related to Covid-19. The state government lifted all the restrictions on November 17.Chief minister Shivraj Singh Chouhan said schools will open with 50% capacity only. He also urged people to wear masks and maintain social distancing to contain the spread of the virus. Chouhan also asked people to get vaccinated. In Madhya Pradesh, more than 10 crore people have been vaccinated so far.The state government is yet to take a decision on restrictions on New Year celebrations.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/to-contain-possible-covid-19-spread-night-curfew-invoked-in-madhya-pradesh-101640284694814.html
24-12-2021||India||Blast rocks court, 1 dies in Ludhiana||An explosion rocked the district courts complex in Ludhiana on Thursday afternoon, killing one person, suspected to be the perpetrator, and injuring six others, including three women, police said.The blast occurred at 12.22pm in a washroom on the second floor of the court building, which is right next to the district administrative complex and has a daily footfall of over 25,000 people. Punjab chief minister Charanjit Singh Channi, who visited the spot said the blast, was carried to disrupt law and order in the state ahead of the assembly polls. Union home minister Amit Shah had a phone coversation with Channi to take stock of the situation, a statement from the chief minister’s office said.Police suspect the deceased, whose burnt body was not removed from the site till late in the evening as investigations were on and a forensic team was collecting samples, was carrying the bomb.Commissioner of police Gurpreet Bhullar said while nothing can be confirmed at this stage, the preliminary investigations suggested that the unidentified suspect was the bomb carrier. “The body of the deceased has not been removed from the site so that the investigation at the crime scene is not hampered,” he said. A team of the National Security Guard (NSG) from Delhi was called in and another one from the National Investigative Agency (NIA) reached the spot.The blast occurred on a day when advocates were on strike, and the footfall was relatively low. The explosion ripped apart a section of the building and was heard hundreds of metres away. The walls of the washroom were damaged and glass window panes of the lawyers’ chambers as well as of vehicles parked near the building were shattered.There was an air of fear as police cordoned off the area and evacuated the building and the injured were rushed to hospital in ambulances.Gurbakshish Bedi, a lawyer, said he was in a lift at the time of the blast and at first felt there was an earthquake or the lift had collapsed. “Initially, we could not make out that it was a blast, such was the impact,” he said.Harjot Singh, another lawyer, said he was on the second floor and going towards his chamber when he heard a loud thud. “There was complete darkness and debris fell on my advocate friend who was with me. There was dust flying all over and I saw two women near a photocopy machine literally hurled in the air. There was a strong small of potassium all around. The debris was heavy and my friend and I removed some of it to make our way,” he said.The incident exposed inadequate security arrangements at the crowded complex in the heart of the state’s commercial nerve centre. Security of court premises has come in for scrutiny after similar incidents at Delhi’s Rohini court complex.Chief Justice of India NV Ramana expressed deep shock over the blast in Ludhiana, saying such incidents in quick succession across the country presented a “worrisome” trend. Expressing concern at the “lack of adequate security in court complexes”, he said “Such incidents occurring in quick succession across the country are a worrisome trend.”The CJI called the chief justice of the Punjab and Haryana high court Ravi Shankar Jha to inquire about the development.Former chief minister Capt Amarinder Singh said police must investigate the matter thoroughly, while his political adversary, state Congress chief Navjot Singh Sidhu said there was no doubt that peace was being disturbed by vested interests ahead of elections.Two of the injured women Sandeep Kaur (31) and Sharanjit Kaur (25) said they blacked out soon after the blast and just remember people rescuing them amid chaos and panic.A resident of Raikot, Sandeep is a photocopy machine operator on the second floor of the complex and Sharanjit, a resident of Mundiyan Kalan, came to the court for a hearing of her case. Sandeep suffered injuries to her head and fractured a leg, while the blast caused nosebleeds to Sharanjit.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/blast-rocks-court-1-dies-in-ludhiana-101640284214151.html
24-12-2021||India||Modi advises caution on Omicron||Prime Minister Narendra Modi directed the Union government to send teams to states with low rates of vaccination, growing number of cases, and inadequate health infrastructure to review and improve preparations for any resurgence in Covid-19 outbreaks, particularly in light of the Omicron variant threat.The directions came at a high-level meeting called especially over a gradual rise in Omicron variant cases. As on Thursday, India had 354 cases of the highly transmissible variant, according to data collated from across the states by HT. To be sure, most of the patients either had mild symptoms or were asymptomatic.Modi “reviewed public health response measures for containment and management of Covid-19, strengthening of health infrastructure including availability of drugs, oxygen cylinders and concentrators, ventilators, PSA plants, ICU/oxygen supported beds, human resources, IT interventions and status of vaccination,” said a statement issued by the government’s press and information bureau.The PM directed officials to maintain a high level of vigil and alertness at all levels and said the Union government should work in close coordination with states to support their efforts of public health measures of containment and management under a “whole of government” approach. “The strategy of the Centre for proactive, focused, collaborative and cooperative fight against the pandemic should guide all our future actions,” the statement quoted the PM as telling officials.“In view of the new variant, we should be Satark and Saavdhan,” Modi said, while also stressing on the need for people to adhere to Covid-safe behavior.“It is important for states to ensure that the Oxygen supply equipment are installed and fully functional… He directed officials to work with the states on a regular basis and review the status of preparedness of various components of health infrastructure including training and capacity building of human resources, timely availability of ambulances, readiness of states to operationalise Covid facilities for institutional quarantining, and effective and supervised monitoring of those in home isolation. He also directed officials for effective use of IT tools for telemedicine and tele-consultation,” the statement said.Modi said emerging clusters should be monitored closely and a good number of Covid-positive samples should be sent for genome sequencing to determine the spread of the Omicron variant.The PM asked for states to ensure that the eligible people are fully vaccinated and to proceed to meet the target in a saturation mode.Earlier in the day, Union health secretary Rajesh Bhushan held a review meeting with states. Night curfews should be imposed, large gatherings should be regulated and containment zones should be properly notified and enforced if cases spike, the official directed states.Bhushan also directed that arrangements be put in place to operationalise all Covid facilities that were decommissioned because of a decrease in the number of daily new infections and to exponentially ramp up vaccination in states going in for elections in the near future.“As many states have decommissioned Covid facilities, they are required to keep an action plan ready for making these operational along with adequate availability of doctors and ambulance on call, in case there is a rise in Covid cases,” said Bhushan during the review meeting.On testing and surveillance, states were asked to keep a close and strict watch on the number of delta and omicron cases in all districts; case positivity on a day-on-day and week-on-week basis; the doubling rate; and new emerging clusters; and initiate containment in these areas.States have been asked to ensure door-to-door case search in the containment areas; test all severe acute respiratory infection and influenza like illness, and vulnerable or co-morbid people displaying symptoms; and ensure RT-PCR and rapid tests are done in at least a 60:40 ratio.Experts particularly stressed on the need to ensure vaccine coverage. “Studies are showing that current vaccines that are in use work against most variants of Sars-Cov-2 in circulation; and one must take both the doses for effective protection against developing severe disease,” said Dr GC Khilnani, former head, pulmonary medicine department, All India Institute of Medical Sciences, Delhi.The Union government earlier in the week sent an advisory to states, setting a particular threshold for containment and mitigation measures to be intensified. The letter, sent by Bhushan, identified these thresholds as 10% weekly positivity rate or 40% hospital bed occupancy rate – if either is crossed, restrictions like night curfews must kick in.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/modi-advises-caution-on-omicron-101640284213312.html
24-12-2021||India||Cow a sin for some, but sacred for us: PM Modi||Talking about the cow may be a sin to some people but it was “sacred” and a “mother to us”, Prime Minister Narendra Modi said on Thursday in Uttar Pradesh, hitting out at political opponents months before high-stakes state polls.Modi was addressing a rally in Varanasi -- his second in 10 days -- after inaugurating and breaking the ground for 27 projects worth ₹2,095 crore, including the Banaras Dairy Kashi Sankul, a ₹475 crore project spread over 30 acres that aims to process 500,000 litres of milk a day.Modi said those making fun of cows and buffaloes forget that the livelihood of 80 million families in India depended on livestock. “Talking about cow, talking about ‘gobardhan’ (cow dung) has been made a matter of ‘gunah’ (sin) by some people. Cow can be a sin for some people, for us it is the mother, and is sacred,” Modi said.Alleging that previous governments ignored the dairy industry, Modi said strengthening and promoting this sector was a priority for his government. He also digitally transferred a bonus totalling ₹35 crore to the bank accounts of around 170,000 milk producers.“I firmly believe the dairy sector, animal husbandry and new energy in white revolution can play a big role in changing the condition of farmers. There are many reasons for this belief. First, animal husbandry can become a huge source of additional income for the small farmers, whose number is more than 100 million. Second, India’s dairy products have a huge market abroad, in which we have a lot of potential to move forward. Third, animal husbandry is a great way for the economic upliftment of women,” he said.Milk production in the country increased by about 45% as compared to seven years ago, he said. “Today, India produces about 22% of the world’s milk. I am happy that today UP is not only the largest milk producing state in the country, it is also ahead in the expansion of the dairy sector,” he added.This was Modi’s second visit to his parliamentary constituency in the past 10 days, where the Bharatiya Janata Party is looking to return to power for a second consecutive time in assembly elections early next year. On December 13, he inaugurated the Kashi Vishwanath Corridor in the city and attacked opposition parties.On Thursday, too, Modi hit out at political opponents, saying that the BJP’s poll slogan of “sabka saath, sabka vikas (inclusive development for all)” was never part of the vocabulary of people who saw Uttar Pradesh only through the prism of caste, creed and religion.”Some people have heartburn when I talk about double power of double engine and double development in Kashi and Uttar Pradesh,” he said, referring to the BJP being in power both at the Centre and in the state.“These are the people who saw the politics of Uttar Pradesh only through the prism of caste, creed, and religion. These people never wanted UP to develop, to have a modern identity,” he added.The PM alleged that those thinking of selfish gains were not liking the rapid development of Uttar Pradesh.“They have an objection to the development of Purvanchal and work for the Baba Vishwanath Dham. I have been told that last Sunday, 1.5 lakh pilgrims reached for darshan of Baba Vishwanath Dham,” he said.People across the state were backing the “double engine” government and this angered those who kept the state backward, he added.At the event on Thursday, Modi also launched a portal and a logo dedicated to the Conformity Assessment Scheme of milk products developed by the Bureau of Indian Standards (BIS) with the help of the National Dairy Development Board (NDDB). An integrated logo featuring the Kamdhenu was also launched for certification, he said.In his speech, Modi touched on natural farming and said it was the need of the hour. “For the rejuvenation of the earth, to protect our soil and to secure the future of the coming generations, we must once again turn to natural farming,” he said.Modi also paid tribute to former Prime Minister Chaudhary Charan Singh on his birth anniversary, which is celebrated as Kisan Diwas. Singh, an influential farm leader from western UP, is the grandfather of Jayant Chaudhary, whose Rashtriya Lok Dal is fighting the polls in alliance with the Samajwadi Party, the BJP’s primary challenger.The PM also laid the foundation stones for a biogas-based electricity generation plant and a homeopathic medical college.”Varanasi is fast turning into a model of development. New projects are bringing unprecedented ease and convenience for the people of the city,” he said.He virtually distributed rural residential rights records to two million residents, inaugurated multiple urban development projects, an inter-university centre, a teachers education centre, a doctors hostel, a nurses hostel, a shelter home and a 50-bed hospital.Reacting to PM Modi’s event, Samajwadi Party national president Akhilesh Yadav blamed BJP government for over delaying the dairy projects started by his government.In a tweet in Hindi he said: “BJP government spent entire term in executing the Amul dairy plants finalised for Lucknow, Kanpur, and Varanasi. This ‘kainchijeevi (those who cut ribbons by scissors of others’ projects) would hide the fact, but anyone can ask the Amul company, and they will tell the truth”.
24-12-2021||India||Can a law to raise marriage age for women work?||There is no rational reason why the minimum age of marriage for women should be lower than men. However, that is exactly the case under the current law that makes child marriages illegal in India: the Prevention of Child Marriage Act, 2006 (PCMA). A bill to amend this law and make the minimum age for both genders 21 years – it is 18 years for women and 21 years for men currently – was introduced in the Lok Sabha on December 21. As with every bill, this one also comes with a “Statement of Objects and Reasons” for enacting it. This statement cites the equality of genders guaranteed by the Constitution of India as one of the reasons for enacting the bill. However, an HT analysis shows that the amendment is unlikely to achieve its other objectives and its reasons are divorced from what the government’s own data says. Here are four charts that explain this.Decline in child marriages sped up slightly after the 2006 lawThe first reason cited in the bill for amending the PCMA is that the 2006 law has not completely ended child marriages. “The Child Marriage Restraint Act, 1929, was replaced by the Prohibition of Child Marriage Act, 2006, to prohibit solemnisation of child marriages, but this highly pernicious practice is still not completely eradicated from our society. Hence, there is an urgent need to tackle this societal issue and to bring in reforms,” the statement citing the reasons for the amendment says. The National Family Health Surveys (NFHS) support this. A decade after the 2006 law was passed, over a third of women of age 20-49 years reported being married before turning 18. This proves that the practice exists, and that reforms are needed. What the statement does not explain is how increasing the minimum age will end it. The changes made in 2006, for example, were related to how child marriages are to be prevented and not the minimum age, and seem to have sped up the decline in child marriages. The share of 20-49 years old women married before adulthood declined at the rate of 1.03 percentage points per year from 1998-99 to 2005-06. It decreased at the rate of 1.7 percentage points per year after that.Differences in personal laws don’t impact child marriagesThe amendment bill and the reasons cited for it also seem to suggest that religious personal laws are somehow related to or are enablers of child marriages. “Invoking different marriage laws of different faiths, I rise to introduce the amendment bill,” Smriti Iriani, the Union minister for women and child development, said in the Lok Sabha. Most personal laws have the same age bar as the PCMA. The difference with PCMA is only in the Muslim personal law, where the age of puberty – considered to be 15 years – is the minimum age. NFHS data shows that these personal laws have little correlation with the prevalence of child marriages in different communities. Child marriages are 1.6 times more likely among Hindus than among Christians although their personal laws have the same minimum age criteria. Muslims and Hindus are almost equally likely to participate in a child marriage even with different age criteria.Nutritional status and employment can be affected by marriage at any ageTwo other reasons cited for bringing the amendment are that it will help in improving nutritional status and employment prospects of women. HT analysed the impact of child marriage on these indicators in a story published on August 23, 2020. Young or breastfeeding women indeed have worse nutritional status than older or women who are not breastfeeding. However, nutritional status is also correlated with wealth of the household. 36% women in the bottom 20% of households by wealth were underweight, according to the 2015-16 NFHS, compared to 12% women in the top 20%. Similarly, the Periodic Labour Force Survey (PLFS) conducted in 2018-19 shows that up to 20 years of age, labour force participation of married women is similar if not higher than unmarried women. In the 21-25 age group and the 26-30 age group, unmarried women are twice as likely to participate in the labour force as married women. This suggests that increasing the age of marriage will not change women’s employment prospects until marital norms are decoupled from work participation. Since it does not explain how job prospects will change, in effect, the law may make the poorest people most vulnerable to its prosecution provisions since child marriages are most prevalent in the lowest wealth category, according to NFHS data.The law needs more improvement in other areasNFHS data shown above suggests that child marriages are still widely prevalent. Cases filed under PCMA are relatively much less. 25% women in the 20-24 age group reported being married before turning 18 in the 2015-16 NFHS. This would, in effect, amount to at least 14 million women married before legal age after the 2006 law was passed, according to March 2016 population projections for the age group. National Crime Records Bureau data, however, shows only 1,666 cases filed under PCMA from 2007 to 2016. Why is this the case? One reason is that the Child Marriage Prohibition Officer provided under the PCMA is a government servant at the district level carrying additional charge, who is neither proximate to the site of such marriages, nor has the time and training to perform the role, said Madhu Mehra, head of research and training at Partners for Law and Development (PLD). Child marriages are often stopped by social activists, who are few and far between, and they prefer to mediate as shaming the family results in backlash, making matters worse for the child, she added.Even when child marriage cases are brought to courts, they may not be against child marriage per se. PLD analysed 83 cases of child marriage – not all filed under PCMA but all concerning annulling one – that were decided between 2008 and 2017. 54 of them were ones of elopement, where either the parents were prosecuting the husband or seeking custody of their daughter or also cases where the couple sought protection from their parents. 25 other cases were of an arranged child marriage. They were related to the marriage breaking down because of domestic abuse or the partners being incompatible.The reforms the amendment bill talks about could well begin by hiring trained officers, increasing fund allocation for nutrition, increasing the right to education up to the minimum age of marriage, or simply put, spending some money on the objectives the bill seeks to achieve.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/can-a-law-to-raise-marriage-age-for-women-work-101640281633937.html
24-12-2021||India||Variant watch: Hospital risk for Omicron 40-45% lower, says UK study||The Omicron variant is less likely to lead to severe disease in people who have taken vaccines or had Covid-19 in the past, two studies from the UK have said.Taken together with findings from South Africa – all three studies were released on Wednesday – there is now sound scientific basis to conclude the variant is less virulent than others, especially Delta, which caused a devastating outbreak in India last summer and sparked new waves in other countries.The findings are the first encouraging scientific evidence linked to the variant of concern (VOC) discovered last month when it started tearing through parts of South Africa at a rate not seen with any other Sars-Cov-2 variant. Scientists soon discovered it was also the most resistant configuration of the coronavirus, leading to higher odds of repeat and vaccine breakthrough infections.If the Omicron variant was to be as virulent, or more, than Delta, the implications would have been dire, although its high transmissibility and resistance still pose a threat.“Our analysis shows evidence of a moderate reduction in the risk of hospitalisation associated with the Omicron variant compared with the Delta variant. However, this appears to be offset by the reduced efficacy of vaccines against infection with the Omicron variant. Given the high transmissibility of the Omicron virus, there remains the potential for health services to face increasing demand if Omicron cases continue to grow at the rate that has been seen in recent weeks,” said professor Neil Ferguson of Imperial College London, which released the analysis of Omicron and Delta cases in England.Two UK studies, similar severity findingsThe Imperial College study included all RT-PCR-confirmed Covid-19 cases recorded between December 1-14 in England. It found that Omicron cases have, on average, a 15-20% reduced risk of needing to visit a hospital (the lowest level of severity) and an approximately 40-45% reduced risk of a hospitalisation resulting in a stay of one or more nights.It also found that a past infection offered approximately a 50-70% reduction in hospitalisation risk compared. All of these comparisons were made against risks of hospitalisation seen with the Delta variant.The researchers estimate that in unvaccinated people being infected for the first time, the risk of hospitalisation may be lowered by 0-30%, suggesting the severity in completely immune-naive people may not be very different from those who had a Delta infection for the first time, without any vaccine.The other UK study was from Scotland. Although based on a small number of hospitalisations, the study made similar findings: those with Omicron infections were 68% less likely to need hospitalisation compared to people infected with the Delta variant.Both reports, as well as the South African study, are yet to be peer-reviewed.The Imperial College researchers also said in their study that Omicron infections in people with vaccination may be even less likely to require ICU admission or lead to death when compared to Delta variant, “given that remaining immune protection against more severe outcomes of infection are expected to be much higher than those against milder endpoints”.Need for vaccines, boostersThe detailed findings corroborate lab studies that show people with booster doses have a more adequate immune response to counter the Omicron variant. In their real-world analysis, the Scotland report found a 57% reduction in the risk of symptomatic infection in people who were infected with the VOC compared to those who just had two doses at least 25 weeks prior.The detailed Imperial College findings made similar findings. For instance, people with two doses of the AstraZeneca vaccine (used in India as the Covishield vaccine), had a higher risk ratio of 0.37 than those with three doses of the same vaccine (0.21). These risk ratios mean two doses reduced the risk of hospitalisation by 63% while three doses cut it by 79%.Crucially, the report added, people who took the AstraZeneca vaccine had a lower risk in needing to visit a hospital if infected by the Omicron variant when compared to the equivalent risk in the case of a Delta variant infection. In the case of Pfizer-BioNTech or Moderna vaccines, the likelihood of requiring a hospital visit – defined as the lowest level of severity – were similar between Omicron and Delta infections.The report also stressed on the need to vaccinate the unvaccinated, especially those who did not have a past infection. “The proportion of unvaccinated individuals infected is likely to be substantially higher. In that context, our finding that a previous infection reduces the risk of any hospitalisation by approximately 50% and the risk of a hospital stay of 1+ days by 61% (before adjustments for under ascertainment of reinfections) is significant,” the report said.
24-12-2021||India||Chennai saw massive rise in overall deaths during second wave, shows new study||Deaths in Chennai peaked at levels 4.75 times higher during the brutal second wave of India’s Covid-19 outbreak compared to levels observed before the onset of the pandemic, shows a new study published in the journal Lancet Infectious Diseases.The city saw a 41% increase in overall mortality compared to pre-pandemic levels, with a higher death toll observed in poorer parts of the city during the second wave, the study found.The study, which analyses the “excess mortality” in the Tamil Nadu capital between March 24, 2020 and June 30, 2021, adds to a growing trove of evidence that seeks to uncover crucial data uncovering the actual toll of the pandemic.“All-cause excess death” is a generalised term that refers to the total number of deaths occurring due to all causes during a crisis that is above and beyond what would have been expected under normal conditions.To be sure, not all such excess deaths may be due to Covid-19, but during a pandemic, such major deviations in fatalities are likely to be either directly or indirectly caused by the outbreak and the stress it caused on a region’s health care system.In the study titled “All-cause mortality during the Covid-19 pandemic in Chennai, India: an observational study”, released on Thursday, researchers analysed death registrations in Chennai in order to measure changes in fatality numbers through the pandemic.The study was conducted by researchers from the Tamil Nadu government, Washington-based Centre for Disease Dynamics, Economics and Policy (CDDEP), University of California Berkeley, and Johns Hopkins University.Also Read: Omicron: TN sees big jump in cases, 33 fresh infections push state’s tally to 34The study used death registration data from Tamil Nadu’s Civil Registration System (CRS) and closely matched mortality estimates from India’s demographic survey-based Sample Registration System (SRS), the authors said.“Between March 1, 2020 and June 30, 2021, 87,870 deaths were registered in areas of Chennai district represented by the 2011 census, exceeding expected deaths by 25,990,” the study said.It means Chennai recorded 5.2 excess deaths registered per 1,000 residents since the start of the Covid-19 pandemic, marking a 41% increase in overall deaths through the period of study compared to the pre-pandemic average.The researchers found that their estimates of excess mortality (5.2 deaths per 1,000 residents) in Chennai exceeded similar findings from higher-income settings such as in the United States, United Kingdom, Spain, Italy, etc (where it ranged from 1.6-2.1 excess deaths per 1,000) despite India’s younger age distribution – a factor that many had hoped would provide relative protection to India against a disease like Covid-19 that is statistically known to be disproportionately fatal to the elderly.The 41% increase, however, was far from being equally spread through the pandemic, the researchers found.They divided their analysis into three periods of interest – the first four weeks of India’s first lockdown (March 24 to April 20, 2020), a four-month period including the first wave (May 1 to August 31, 2020), and a four-month period including the second wave in Chennai (March 1 to June 30, 2021).Most excess deaths occurred during the second wave when mortality peaked at levels 4.75 times higher than pre-pandemic observations, the authors noted.Different waves also targeted different socioeconomic levels differently, the researchers found. Through the overall pandemic period, “0.7% to 2.8% higher mortality was observed per 1 SD (standard deviation) increase in each measure of community socioeconomic deprivation”, they said.“Communities with lower socioeconomic status had reductions in mortality during the early lockdown, but also had the greatest increases in mortality during the second wave. Therefore, such communities had a disproportionate burden of excess deaths overall,” the study noted.“Differential access to care is more of an issue when the health care system is overwhelmed. That is likely the biggest contributor to more excess deaths among the poor,” said the study’s lead author, Dr Ramanan Laxminarayan, director of CDDEP.“The enormous toll taken by Covid-19 on many countries is evident but poorly measured. In India, the high quality of deaths recording in Chennai made possible a careful study of the effect of Covid on all-cause mortality. There are very few large-scale studies examining all-cause mortality in low-income and middle-income countries (LMICs),” said Laxminarayan. “With new variants spreading rapidly, the pandemic wears on, and there is a greater need for understanding socioeconomic patterns for all-cause mortality, and dissimilarities between various settings to strengthen public health decision-making.”Laxminarayan had previously published one of the world’s largest Covid-19 contact-tracing studies in 2020, which found that a tenth of all cases become “superspreaders” and account for 60% of new infections, while 70% of Covid patients do not pass on the disease to anyone else.Previously, separate analysis conducted by several news organisations such as The Hindu, Scroll, The News Minute, Article 14, among others, have estimated the undercount factor for India’s states, cities and districts.Such estimates have been arrived at for Andhra Pradesh, Assam, Gujarat, Himachal Pradesh, Karnataka, Kerala, Madhya Pradesh, Maharashtra, Punjab, Tamil Nadu, Uttar Pradesh and West Bengal, among other states, and have shown a wide range of undercount factors - as little as 0.42 times in Kerala to 43 times in UP (based on data from 24 of the state’s 75 districts).On August 21, an analysis of CRS data in Bihar by HT showed that there were at least 251,000 excess deaths in the state since the start of the pandemic, which is 48.6 times the official number of reported Covid-19 deaths (5,163) from the same time.The figures in Bihar presented one of the largest deviations in excess mortality seen in any Indian state so far.
24-12-2021||India||Assam man arrested for raping 3 girls tried to escape, shot in the leg: Police||A 50-year-old man arrested on charges of raping three minor girls was shot in the leg by the police when he allegedly tried to escape from custody past Wednesday midnight in Assam’s Morigaon district, police said.The incident took place at 12.30am on Thursday when the accused, Rajani Kanta Daimary, was being taken to his house hours after his arrest to recover a stained undergarment of his fourth victim, said Aparna N, superintendent of police, Morigaon district. The bullet hit his knee. Daimary has been admitted to the Guwahati Medical College and Hospital (GMCH) with a gunshot wound“A case against the accused was lodged on Monday for allegedly raping three minor girls, aged 9, 7 and 6 years, multiple times. The last assault happened on Sunday following which families of the victims came to know about it and approached the police,” said Aparna N.Daimary was arrested on Wednesday. During his questioning, he allegedly told investigators that he raped four girls. He reportedly claimed to have undergarments of the fourth girl at his house at Jengorbori village under Lahorighat police station. The rape survivors live in the same village.“Since it was an important piece of evidence, we took him to his house to recover it. But while the police team was on the way, Daimary tried to flee from custody. In order to prevent his escape, the team resorted to controlled firing in which the accused was injured on his knees,” said Aparna.The officer said they are trying to locate the fourth girl, also a minor, to have been allegedly raped by the accused.Assam has witnessed a spurt in incidents of police shooting at alleged criminals while allegedly trying to escape from custody or snatch weapons of security personnel since May this year when Himanta Biswa Sarma took over as chief minister.Also Read: ‘Shoot criminals in leg if they try to escape from custody’, Assam CM told cops in JulyAccording to police figures, 28 people have died and 49 injured in such incidents. A Delhi-based lawyer has petitioned the Gauhati high court to seek an independent probe into these incidents.In July, Biswa told police officers to shoot alleged criminals in the leg if they try to escape from custody. “Someone asked me today if police shooting at persons who try to escape from custody has become a pattern. This should be the pattern if someone who is a rapist tries to flee after snatching arms from police or someone who tries to escape while recreating a scene of crime,” Sarma told the officers during an interaction with officers amid an increase in incidents of police shooting suspects while allegedly trying to escape from custody.
