25-12-2021||India||Bommai to be CM till ’23 polls: Karnataka BJP chief||The Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) in Karnataka continues to go on overdrive to debunk speculation of a possible leadership change in the state or that the chief minister is travelling abroad when change is expected to happen. “Bommai is going to be the Chief Minister till the next election, which is 2023. There is no leadership change,” Nalin Kumar Kateel, the state BJP president, told reporters in Bengaluru on Saturday. The Chief Minister, who would complete five months in office in the next couple of days, had turned emotional in his home town Shiggaon in Haveri district a few days ago and said he was aware of the fact that posts and positions were not forever, raising eyebrows.However, Kateel termed these talks of leadership change, a conspiracy.According to him, when senior BJP leader B S Yediyurappa became the chief minister, speculations started about his exit but he remained in power for two years.”This news (about Bommai’s exit) is a figment of imagination. I feel this is a conspiracy to create confusion, problem in the state politics and to defame the BJP government,” Kateel said.He suspected the involvement of Congress behind spreading the rumours.Kateel also ruled out Bommai going abroad for the treatment of his knee related ailment.“He is not going abroad. There is nothing wrong with his health but only some leg related issues for which he is getting treatment. He is healthy. His leg related problem will be cured here only,” Kateel said.He added that Bommai was supposed to go abroad from the government side, which has been postponed. Hence, the foreign trip has been cancelled.Union Minister for coal and mines Pralhad Joshi too dismissed the issue of leadership change.“I have made it clear several times that Basavaraj Bommai will remain as Chief Minister till 2023 and under his leadership, the government is performing well and bringing good name,” Joshi told reporters in Hubballi.He said it was wrong to spread such news as there was no issue of leadership change.“There is no leadership change. I am always in touch with our national level leaders regularly and I have good relationship with them. If such was the case, then certainly I would have come to know. There is no such proposal. He is doing a good job,” the union minister said.Ruling out Bommai’s foreign trip, Joshi said such speculations should not be given any credence.To a query on cabinet rejig, Joshi said there were no such discussions happening at the state and national level as of now||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/bommai-to-be-cm-till-23-polls-karnataka-bjp-chief-101640456070503.html
25-12-2021||India||Tamil Nadu plans random testing of 10% international passengers from ‘non-risk’ countries||The random tests done on passengers arriving from ‘non-risk’ countries at all four international airports in Tamil Nadu would be ramped up from two per cent to 10 per cent from tomorrow, following an increase in the number of people detected with the ‘S gene’ drop, a possible indicator of the Omicron variant, the state government said here on Saturday.The minister for medical and family welfare Ma Subramanian said 12 people detected with the Omicron variant in the state have been discharged from hospitals in Chennai, Tiruchirapalli and other cities after recovery, taking the ‘active’ Omicron cases in Tamil Nadu to 22.Talking to reporters after inspecting the facilities at the Rajiv Gandhi Government General Hospital here, he said the government has written to the Centre, seeking a fresh set of guidelines to test international passengers arriving from both ‘high risk’ and ‘non-risk’ countries.“The Centre is yet to respond to our letter. But as a preventive measure, from tomorrow onwards it has been decided to conduct tests on 10 per cent of passengers arriving from ‘non-risk’ countries as against the current practice of randomly selecting two per cent of the passengers”, he said..Subramanian said the Omicron variant can spread fast in crowded places and appealed to hotels and pubs to avoid conducting New Year celebrations.In another significant development, the Minister said 39 persons who had come in contact with doctors, nurses and medical workers at the Rajiv Gandhi Government General Hospital have been detected with the ‘S’gene drop variant of COVID-19.He said a doctor who performed a surgery on a patient on December 17 has tested positive, following which 3,038 of his ‘direct’ and ‘indirect’ contacts were tested, of whom 54 contracted COVID-19. “Of the 54 people, 39 have been detected with the ‘s’ gene drop variant. Their samples have been sent to the National institute of Virology, Pune for genomic sequencing analysis. All the patients are aysmptomatic and are doing well”, he said.To a query on Tamil actor Vadivelu testing COVID-19 positive, he said RT-PCR tests done on both the actor and film director Siraaj at the international airport here on their return from the United Kingdom had confirmed it.“They have been admitted to the Sri Ramachandra Medical College Hospital. Both have been detected with the ‘S’ gene variant, following which their samples were sent to the National Institute of Virology, Pune for genomic sequencing analysis. Both are asymptomatic and are doing well”, he said.The minister said the 16th edition of the state-wide Mega Vaccination Camp would be held on Sunday and urged the 94 lakh people eligible to receive the second dose of vaccination to make use of the opportunity and take the jab.“In Tamil Nadu, 85 per cent of the people have received the first dose and 55.8 per cent, the second dose,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/tamil-nadu-plans-random-testing-of-10-international-passengers-from-non-risk-countries-101640456067982.html
25-12-2021||India||Tamil Nadu: AIADMK urges govt to urgently disburse aid to kin of Covid victims||The AIADMK on Saturday demanded that the Tamil Nadu government take steps to immediately disburse the Covid ex gratia of ₹50,000 to the kin of those who succumbed to Coronavirus and warned further delay could only lead to a situation coercing the affected families to agitate.Wondering what prevented the M K Stalin-led DMK government from providing ₹1 crore ex gratia, which he sought before coming to power, former chief minister and AIADMK co-coordinator K Palaniswami wanted to know why the amount has not been given so far despite a direction from the Supreme court.“If the State government cites fiscal deficit as reason for non-disbursement of the relief, then who is forcing the government to indulge in wasteful expenditure?” Palaniswami asked, taking potshots at the DMK government.He claimed that the Centre had already released its contribution from the National Disaster Response Fund and that the State has to provide its share.“From April 2020 till yesterday about 36,700 persons have died due to Coronavirus infection in Tamil Nadu, as officially announced by the government. But the State government has not taken steps so far to provide the ex gratia,” Palaniswami alleged in a statement here.On December 6, the State government issued an order granting an ex gratia of ₹50,000 from the State Disaster Response Fund (SDRF) to the kin of those who died due to Coronavirus, and others who lost their lives in operations or associated with preparedness activities.Palaniswami pointed out that the Supreme Court had directed all States to give wide publicity to make people aware of the procedure and where to approach to make the claim for Covid ex gratia.“Further delay in disbursing the ex gratia would only create a situation leading to the affected families to take to the streets and agitate. Hence, I urge the Chief Minister to immediately disburse the ex gratia,” the leader of the opposition in Tamil Nadu assembly said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/tamil-nadu-aiadmk-urges-govt-to-urgently-disburse-aid-to-kin-of-covid-victims-101640456007258.html
25-12-2021||India||Telangana govt prohibits rallies, public meetings||The Telangana government on Saturday prohibited rallies and public meetings till January 2 and imposed certain conditions as part of measures to check Covid-19 in the light of its variant Omicron emergence.State chief secretary Somesh Kumar issued a government order (GO) to the effect in the wake of the suggestions from Union Ministry of Health and the directions issued by the High Court recently over the matter.The order said rallies and public meetings shall be prohibited throughout the State till January 2, 2022.Other events involving congregation of people would be permitted subject to the directions, including ensuring physical distancing within the venue, disallowing any person without a mask and arranging thermal scanners at the entry point of the venue.The orders for imposition of fine for not wearing of mask by people in public spaces should be strictly enforced, the order said.The directions would be enforced strictly with immediate effect, it said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/telangana-govt-prohibits-rallies-public-meetings-101640455955189.html
25-12-2021||India||Karnataka reports 7 new Omicron cases, CM to hold meet today||A meeting to discuss measures to control the spread of Omicron, the new variant of the coronavirus will be held on Sunday, Karnataka chief minister Basavaraj Bommai said as state reports seven new cases on Saturday. “Omicron cases are on the rise in neighbouring Maharashtra, Kerala and Tamil Nadu. This is a cause for concern. “A meeting with experts would be held on Sunday to discuss the situation and decide about appropriate measures to prevent its spread in Karnataka,” Bommai said on Saturday. To a query on the possibility of giving booster dose, Bommai said the Centre will take a call on it. He also said that the guidelines issued earlier are still continuing in the state. However, after reviewing the situation, more strict measures can be initiated.The meeting comes at a time when there has been a rise in the number of new infections, including the Omicron variant.State health minister Dr K Sudhakar said seven new cases of Omicron variant have been confirmed in Karnataka, taking the total cases to 38.In a set of tweets, he said, “Seven new cases of Omicron variant have been confirmed in Karnataka on December 25.”According to him, those who tested positive were: a 76-year-old man from Bengaluru, who had travelled from Delhi, a 30-year-old woman from Bengaluru, who came from UAE, a 63-year-old man from Bengaluru who arrived from Zambia and a 54-year-old man from Bengaluru, who was a primary contact of a United Kingdom traveller.He added that a 21-year-old man from Bengaluru who arrived from the UK, a 62-year-old man from Bengaluru, who came from Delhi, and a 15-year-old boy from Bengaluru who travelled from the USA have also been found infected.Sudhakar said all primary and secondary contacts have been tracked, traced and tested.The Health Department said except for the 15-year-old, all are vaccinated. Among the infected people, four have symptoms of the new variant of coronavirus.The state government and especially the district administration of Bengaluru have already placed measures to contain the spread, falling back on restrictions as the antidote to the virus. Prohibitory orders will be issued ahead of New Year celebrations, which are likely to restrict movement within the city on New Year’s Eve after prescribed hours, Bengaluru police commissioner Kamal Pant said on Friday.Karnataka has already put other measures in place like restricting entry to unvaccinated people to malls, theatres, pubs and restaurants as a move to increase vaccination coverage. “We will issue a prohibitory order on Monday and Tuesday. It will be difficult to restrict gatherings in public places without such an order. Since the Assembly session is going on, we will need to announce the decision once ministers are back in Bengaluru,” said Pant, HT reported. However, malls were seen with haphazard attempts to check customers who continue to throng these venues on account of attractive sales and spending time with family and friends during the holiday season. Karnataka on Saturday logged 270 fresh Covid-19 cases and four deaths, taking the caseload to 3,004,239 and the toll to 38,309. Recoveries numbered 246, taking the total to 2,958,630, leaving 7,271 active cases, a health department bulletin said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/karnataka-reports-7-new-omicron-cases-cm-to-hold-meet-today-101640455953661.html
25-12-2021||India||Coxavin gets DCGI nod for use among 12-18 age group||New Delhi The Drugs Controller General of India (DCGI) on Saturday approved Covaxin for use in children between the ages of 12 and 18, a significant step towards opening vaccinations to the age group that has so far remained ineligible in India’s immunisation programme against Covid-19.The decision came shortly before Prime Minister Narendra Modi addressed the nation and announced that the government was opening vaccinations to children between the ages of 15 and 18 from January 3 next year.“Covaxin receives approval for emergency use in children 12-18 years of age... We have documented excellent safety and immunogenicity data readouts in children,” the maker of the vaccine, Bharat Biotech, said in a statement.India previously approved ZyCoV-D, a vaccine made by Zydus Cadila, for those between the ages of 12 and 18 (there are around 150 million), although vaccinations in children did not begin after the move.The move comes amid concerns of the spread of Omicron, a highly transmissible variant of the coronavirus. Children are likely to remain less at risk due to their inherent immunity advantage, experts have said, but a highly transmissible virus will breach deeper into the population, posing a greater threat to any child with compromised immunity.The approval from DCGI came nearly 10 weeks after the subject expert committee of the Central Drugs Standard Control Organisation (CDSCO) recommended Covaxin’s use in children based on clinical trial data submitted by the Hyderabad-based company. The panel recommended the use of the vaccine in those aged between two and 18.Covaxin is one of the two Covid-19 vaccines that are the mainstay in India’s Covid-19 immunisation programme; the other vaccine is Oxford-AstraZeneca’s Covishield, which is being locally manufactured by the Serum Institute of India.“The Drugs Controller General of India took his time to approve the vaccine for paediatric use after carefully scrutinising the data and looking at some additional data from around the world where vaccination in children has begun. It is a sensitive matter, which is why it made sense to be thorough before granting approval,” a senior official in the ministry of health and family welfare said on condition of anonymity.For a vaccine to be included formally in the government’s coronavirus immunisation campaign for children or adults, DCGI’s approval is mandatory. Six Covid-19 vaccines have been granted emergency use authorisation by the national drugs regulator so far based on the recommendations of the subject expert committee.Experts welcomed the approval and said it was high time children were vaccinated against Covid-19.“Children may not get severe disease but there will always be the risk of others getting infected through children, especially elders and those at high risk in the family,” said Dr Vikas Maurya, director and head of the respiratory medicine department, Fortis Healthcare.
25-12-2021||India||Alappuzha twin killings: 7 more held for SDPI leader’s murder, says Kerala police||Kerala Police on Saturday arrested seven more people in connection with the murder of the Social Democratic Party of India (SDPI) State Secretary KS Shaan.So far, a total of 10 accused have been arrested in the SDPI leader’s murder case.Meanwhile, in the murder case of BJP’s OBC morcha state secretary Renjith Sreenivasan, five people have been arrested so far.A police team is carrying out investigations in other states.Two murders of senior political functionaries from SDPI and BJP in Alappuzha forced the local administration to impose Section 144 in the district.The alleged murder of the SDPI leader was followed by a separate incident in which BJP’s OBC morcha state secretary was killed at his house by unidentified people in Alappuzha.According to the police, Shaan was on a two-wheeler when a gang in a car attacked him on Saturday night. SDPI has alleged that RSS workers are behind this attack.Earlier, an RSS worker S Sanjith was hacked to death allegedly by the workers of the Social Democratic Party of India (SDPI), the political wing of the PFI, on November 15. Minister of State for External Affairs V Muraleedharan has said that the Kerala government is utilizing the Alappuzha twin murder issue to denigrate Rashtriya Swayamsevak Sangh (RSS) and alleged that “the Social Democratic Party of India (SDPI) is a terrorist organization.”“Kerala government is utilizing Alappuzha twin murder issue to denigrate RSS. They will (state police chief) prepare a list of RSS and SDPI members with a criminal background. The 2 cannot be equated. SDPI is a terrorist organization,” Muraleedharan told ANI.Kerala DGP Anil Kant has issued fresh guidelines in the wake of the Alappuzha murder case. As per the guidelines, officials have been told to prepare a district-wise list of those previously involved in criminal cases, including members of the RSS and the SDPI.MoS added, “Criminal list should be impartial without considering the party a person belongs to. In Kerala, the largest number of criminals will be from CPIM anyway. Cases of thousands of CPIM workers were withdrawn when this govt came to power.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/alappuzha-twin-killings-7-more-held-for-sdpi-leader-s-murder-says-kerala-police-101640455947214.html
25-12-2021||India||Karnataka anti-conversion bill: We lacked majority in Upper House, says CM Bommai||A day after the ruling Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) decided against tabling the bill the controversial anti-conversion bill in the Upper House, Karnataka chief minister Basavaraj Bommai on Saturday said that the decision was based on the lack of a clear majority in the state legislature. “It is clear. We don’t have support in the upper house and there were three or four of our legislators who were not present,” Bommai said. In the Lower House, the bill, titled The Karnataka Protection of Right to Freedom of Religion Act, 2021, was discussed for barely a few hours before it was passed with a voice vote over the screaming and sloganeering by Congress on Thursday. While the BJP has a clear majority in the state legislative council, it still has to depend on the JD(S) to make it past the halfway mark of 38 in the 75-seater Upper House. As it stands, there are 32 BJP members in the house, 29 of the Congress and 12 of the JD(S). This will change after the newly elected members enter the council, with BJP much closer to the halfway mark at 37 after the party won 11 seats in the December 10 MLC polls while the Congress will be at 26. The JD(S) has been reduced to 10. The key will be which way the independent candidate Lakhan Jarkiholi will swing.At least two people aware of the developments said that the bill will now be passed in the joint session of the House, though it remains unclear when it will be held or how the party will muster the required numbers, considering that the BJP has far bigger problems with its leadership. “We will get the support of Lakhan Jarkiholi since two of his brothers (Balachandra and Ramesh) are legislators in our party,” said one BJP MLC, requesting not to be named. The vote on this bill could help Ramesh and Balchandra assuage some of the anger within their party, a section of who believe that they put the interests of their family before that of the party’s. According to people in the know of the developments, Ramesh believes that he can get Lakhan into the BJP, but has revived his earlier demand of being reinducted into the cabinet. Another brother of the influential and powerful sugar barons, Satish Jarkiholi a legislator with the Congress, might also be called in from within his party to help Lakhan not cast his vote in favour of the BJP. The JD(S), which walked out in “protest” during the anti-cattle slaughter bill in February, had indirectly helped the BJP in February (to do what?). The JD (S) has tried to play neutral this time, blaming both national parties for drafting a bill that would impact its voter base or at least does not see any significant improvement to its poll prospects by denting a move to its secular credentials.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/karnataka-anti-conversion-bill-we-lacked-majority-in-upper-house-says-cm-bommai-101640455888516.html
25-12-2021||India||UP CM pays tribute to Vajpayee in paternal village, lays foundation for new projects||Uttar Pradesh chief minister Yogi Adityanath paid tribute to former Prime Minister Atal Bihari Vajpayee in his paternal village of Bateshwar, on his birth anniversary on Saturday. Yogi also inaugurated and laid foundation stones for projects worth ₹230 crore for Bateshwar and assured that all efforts would be made to develop it as a prominent pilgrimage in honour of Vajpayee. The former PM’s birth anniversary was observed as ‘Sushashan Diwas’ (Good Governance Day) all over the country. Yogi viewed the photo gallery on the life of Atal Bihari Vajpayee and addressed the gathering at a ground in Bateshwar. “Former Prime Minister late Atal Bihari Vajpayee had a great personality and had such a good reputation that even his opponents could not criticize him. He was an open-hearted person who said that one needed to think big if one intended to do big. In his political career spread over six decades, there was not a single allegation regarding his personality,” said the chief minister. “Atalji inspired us all and paved the way for various schemes in favour of the poor and needy. He gave different schemes for developing road network and free ration for the poor and always stood in favour of the last man in the chain of development. All through his life, he stood for ethics and principles,” said Yogi Adityanath. The CM targeted the Samajwadi Party leadership, without taking names, and blamed them for ‘loot’ while in power in the state. “They had been out of power for the past five years, yet ₹200 crores are being unearthed from their houses in income tax raids. Where did this money come from? It seems to be that which was looted and stored when they were in power in the state,” alleged the CM. “Money meant for poor was wasted on subjects like kabristan (graveyard) in previous regime. Those not even knowing Urdu were appointed as Urdu translators and posts were created for them but nothing was done for students and teachers of Sanskrit. It was during the BJP’s regime that Sanskrit schools were taken care of,” claimed the CM. “The previous regimes in Uttar Pradesh committed a crime by denying the benefits due to the poor. The cash now being unearthed from opposition party leaders and supporters was meant for the poor but was misappropriated. The BJP has given due share to the poor through various schemes like PM Awas Yojna,” he said. “Our government is now giving tablets and smart phones to youth in Uttar Pradesh. There are various schemes in the name of Atal Bihari Vajpayee. Medical colleges, residential schools and intermediate schools are coming up in his name,” said the chief minister, promising that a museum, a ‘sanskritik sankul (cultural complex) and park in name of Atal Bihari Vajpayee would soon come up in Bateshwar. Also present on the occasion were cabinet minister Mahendra Singh, former minister Aridaman Singh, MP from Fatehpur Sikri Rajkumar Chahar and MLA from Bah Rani Pakshalika Singh.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/up-cm-pays-tribute-to-vajpayee-in-paternal-village-lays-foundation-for-new-projects-101640455587398.html
25-12-2021||India||India must stand united against all adversity: PM Modi on Gurpurab||New Delhi: Indians must stand united against all adversity, Prime Minister Narendra Modi said on Saturday, referring to the example of Sikh gurus ahead of assembly elections in Punjab early next year. “It is our responsibility to ensure that in such an important period, nobody hurts our dreams and unity of the country,” Modi told a gathering at Gurudwara Lakhpat Sahib in Gujarat’s Kutch via videoconferencing. “To achieve the dreams for which our gurus lived and sacrificed their lives, we should all remain united. Unity is essential for us all.”“Today, when the country is taking inspiration from its struggle for independence, from its past, at such a time, ideals of our gurus become even more important,” Modi said. “Behind all the efforts taken by the country and its commitments are dreams that it has been waiting for to fulfil.”Every year, from December 23 to 25, the Sikh community in Gujarat celebrate the Gurpurab of Guru Nanak Dev at Gurudwara Lakhpat Sahib, where he had stayed during the course of his travels, and which has his relics, including wooden footwear and palkhi (cradle), as well as manuscripts and marking scripts of Gurmukhi.Meanwhile, Modi also donated ₹1,000 to the coffers of Bharatiya Janata Party, which launched a micro-donation drive on the birth anniversary of former Prime Minister Atal Bihari Vajpayee on December 25, which will continue till 11 February, the death anniversary of Bharatiya Jan Sangh leader Deen Dayal Upadhyay.“Our ideal of always putting Nation First and the culture of lifelong selfless service by our cadre will be further strengthened by your micro-donation,” the Prime Minister tweeted. “Help make BJP strong. Help make India strong.” The BJP has received over ₹7.85 billion in contributions from corporates, electoral trusts and individuals between 2019 and 2020, according to the latest contribution report submitted by the party to the Election Commission in February.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/india-must-stand-united-against-all-adversity-pm-modi-on-gurpurab-101640455408544.html
25-12-2021||India||India’s Omicron tally climbs to 439, Rajasthan logs biggest surge in cases||India’s Omicron tally grew to at least 439 by Saturday evening, with 21 new cases reported from Rajasthan, 2 from Maharashtra and 1 from Kerala, according to the state’s respective health departments. Early on Saturday morning, the Union Health Ministry had said that India had 415 cases of Covid-19 identified as the Omicron variant, of which 115 had either recovered or migrated. In this 415 tally, the Union health ministry said that Maharashtra recorded the highest at 108 cases, followed by Delhi at 79. On Saturday, Rajasthan reported the biggest surge in Omicron cases, its tally nearly doubling in a single day from 22 to 43. Of these 11 cases are from Jaipur, 6 from Ajmer, and 3 from Udaipur. Results from the National Institute of Virology, Pune, showed all of them to be positive with Omicron. Among them, five had returned from foreign countries, while three others were contacts of those who had. Maharashtra also reported 2 new cases of Omicron on Saturday, its tally rising from 108 to 110, the state health department said. However, the number of those that have either recovered, been discharged of migrated rose even more sharply in the state. While this number was 42 earlier, the number rose to 57 in the latest health department update. In Kerala, 1 new case of the Omicron variant was detected, taking the total number of those infected by the new variant to 38, the Kerala health department said. The man found infected is a resident of Kannur, and was a primary contact of a Covid-19 positive student who lived in his neighbourhood. However, an Omicron positive patient from Mallapuram district, was discharged from hospital after 12 days, making him the second person in the state to have recovered or been discharged from hospital. The first such was discharged from a hospital in the state on Friday. Kerala detected its first case on December 12 in Ernakulam, from the sample of a man who had returned from the United Kingdom.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/indias-omicron-tally-climbs-to-439-rajasthan-logs-biggest-surge-in-cases-101640452646748.html
25-12-2021||India||What PM Modi announced during his address to nation. Check details||Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Saturday addressed the nation for 14 minutes and 21 seconds. While speculations were rife regarding a possibility for lockdown amid consistent rise in cases of Omicron variant of coronavirus disease (Covid-19) in the country, PM Modi instead made three announcements regarding the vaccination for citizens.During his address to the nation, PM Modi applauded the healthcare and frontline workers of the country for their fight in the ongoing pandemic. He also said that more than 61 per cent of India's adult population are fully vaccinated against Covid-19, while around 90% of the adult population has received a single dose of the vaccine shots.He added that on the occasion of former Prime Minister of India Atal Vihari Vajpayee's birth anniversary and Christmas, he decided to make the announcements on December 25.Here's a list of the announcements PM Modi made during his address:||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/what-pm-modi-announced-during-his-address-to-nation-check-details-101640450364524.html
25-12-2021||India||PM Modi stresses need to keep wearing masks as Omicron cases continue to rise||Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Saturday urged the people of the country to be cautious in the wake of the new Omicron variant of coronavirus which has been spreading rapidly across the country. He said we need to keep following Covid-19 protocols.“I know all of you are eagerly waiting to welcome 2022. But this is the time to be cautious. Please keep wearing masks and following Covid protocol,” PM Modi said in his address to the nation.The fight against Covid-19 till now tell us that following protocols is the biggest weapon against the infection, he added.The Prime Minister further said the Centre is helping all the states in preparing infrastructure against the coronavirus disease, and listed the steps taken by the government in this regard.The second biggest weapon in the fight against coronavirus disease is vaccination, said the Prime Minister, adding that India started work in developing vaccines in “mission mode” much earlier.The importance of masks has been emphasised by health experts across the world as well as the government in India.A few weeks ago, at a press conference organised by the Union health ministry, Niti Aayog member Dr VK Paul said that masks are the “biggest weapons” in the fight against coronavirus.He also expressed concern over mask rules being violated by people across the country. The warning was given at the same time when Omicron reached the shores of India, days after being detected in South Africa.Emphasising the importance of masks, a recent study said that it’s time to change the facial coverings made of clothes as they can not stop the heavily mutated Omicron.In terms of vaccination, India has fully inoculated more than 60 per cent of the population.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/pm-modi-stresses-need-to-keep-wearing-masks-as-omicron-cases-continue-to-rise-101640450769515.html
25-12-2021||India||MP witnesses 42 Covid-19 cases, no death; active tally to be 232||The COVID-19 tally in Madhya Pradesh reached 7,93,655 on Saturday after 42 cases were detected, while the death toll remained unchanged at 10,532, an official said. The recovery count stood at 7,82,891 after 18 people were discharged from hospitals during the day, leaving the state with an active caseload of 232, he said. With 60,650 samples being examined on Saturday, the number of tests in MP went up to 2,33,36,930, the official added.A government release said 10,12,42,329 COVID-19 vaccine doses have been administered so far in the state, including 1,89,384 on Saturday. Coronavirus figures in MP are as follows: Total cases 7,93,655, new cases 42, death toll 10,532, recovered 7,82,891, active cases 232, number of tests so far 2,33,36,930.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/mp-witnesses-42-covid-19-cases-no-death-active-tally-to-be-232-101640450167401.html
25-12-2021||India||PM Modi announces vaccine for children, precaution doses for frontline workers, senior citizens||Prime Minister Narendra Modi, in a surprise address to the nation on Saturday evening, announced the Covid-19 vaccine for children and booster doses, which PM Modi termed as precaution doses, for frontline workers and senior citizens, amid the Omicron scare. Children between the age group of 15 to 18 years will be getting the Covid vaccine from January 3, 2022. Senior citizens with comorbidities will receive booster doses from January 10, 2022, PM Modi announced. While the demand for the booster doses was being raised amid the outbreak of the Omicron variant, PM Modi in his unscheduled address on Saturday night said India's scientific community takes decisions only after a thorough examination. Lauding the scientific community for its relentless effort in the fight against the pandemic, PM Modi said, “Our scientific community carefully decided every detail of the vaccine, when to take which doses etc. Now the scientific community has arrived at some crucial decisions which I would like to share with you on the auspicious occasion of Christmas and also the birth anniversary of Atal Bihari Vajpayee." My address to the nation. https://t.co/dBQKvHXPtv'Precaution dose' will be administered to frontline workers and senior citizens with comorbidities. Senior citizens will be administered these doses only after consultation with their doctors, PM Modi said.The beginning of a new vaccination phase from January 2022 will complete a year of India's vaccination journey as the inoculation drive against Covid-19 began on January 16, 2021.  Frontline workers and senior citizens with severe illness were the priority groups of the vaccination drive as well. Talking at length about Omicron, the new variant of SARS-CoV-2, PM Modi said there is no need to panic as India is well-poised in the fight against the virus thanks to its healthcare infrastructure. However, the pandemic is not over and there is a need to maintain Covid-appropriate behaviour, PM Modi emphasised. About India's preparedness against any fresh surge in the pandemic, PM Modi said India is equipped with 90,000 beds for children and the country has reached maximum vaccination coverage in record time. Lauding the healthcare infrastructure of the country, PM Modi said soon there will be nasal vaccine and DNA vaccine.PM Modi's announcement of vaccine for children comes as the drug controller general of India on Saturday granted approval for emergency use of Bharat Biotech's Covaxin for children between 12 and 18 years, making it the second vaccine after Zydus Healthcare’s ZyCoV-D to be approved for children below 18 years. However, starting from January 3, India will be administering vaccines to those who are 15+.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/no-need-to-panic-take-precaution-pm-modi-addresses-nation-amid-omicron-101640448442267.html
25-12-2021||India||PM Modi addresses nation. Watch Live||Prime Minister Narendra Modi is set to address the nation shortly, his office announced on Saturday. While the prime minister's office didn't reveal the agenda of his address, it comes against the backdrop of rising cases of Omicron variant of coronavirus across the country.My address to the nation. https://t.co/dBQKvHXPtvPrime Minister Modi announced an additional Covid vaccine dose, which he called "precaution dose", for healthcare and frontline workers from January 10. He said that the precaution dose will also be offered to people above the age of 60 and with comorbidities on the recommendation of doctors.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/pm-modi-to-address-nation-shortly-watch-live-101640448330031.html
25-12-2021||India||SKM to decide on Jan 15 if farm unions contesting polls can stay in organisation||Samyukt Kisan Morcha (SKM), which has consistently maintained its stance on not allowing political parties to use its name, said on Saturday that in the national meeting scheduled on January 15, 2022, the organisation will decide if farmer unions and leaders taking part in polls can remain within the SKM. The statement comes hours after 22 farmer unions, which were part of the organisation, decided to float their political party - Samyukt Samaj Morcha and contest all 117 constituencies of the Punjab assembly polls.In a fresh clarification, the SKM said that it has nothing to do with today's “declaration by some Punjab farmer organisations to form a ‘Samyukt Samaj Morcha’ to contest assembly polls,” according to news agency ANI.“[In] the forthcoming national SKM meeting scheduled for January 15, [it will be decided] whether farmers organisations and leaders who take part in elections can remain within [the] SKM,” the statement further read.
25-12-2021||India||MP: 5 killed in motorcycle accidents at Damoh and Khargone||Five persons were killed in separate accidents involving motorcycles in Damoh and Khargone districts of Madhya Pradesh on Saturday, police said. Three persons were killed after the motorcycle they were travelling on collided with a bus in Damoh district in the afternoon, an official said. The accident occurred around 2 pm in Danital forest near Singrampur village under Jabera police station limits, around 60 km from the district headquarters, sub-divisional officer of police (SDOP) Ashok Chourasia said. Chhatarpur residents Madan Ahirwar, Bharat, Ahirwar and Manak Ahirwar, who were riding the two-wheeler, were killed on the spot, he said. A case has been registered and the errant bus was seized, the official said, adding that further investigation was underway. In a similar accident, a woman and her 14-year-old son were killed when their motorcycle was hit by a speeding car in Khargone district in the evening, an official said. The accident took place near Panwada village under Oon police station limits, Superintendent of Police (SP) Siddharth Choudhary said. Maithili Bai and her son Omkar were crushed to death by a speeding car, he said, adding that the driver abandoned the four-wheeler and fled the scene. The police have seized the car and a search has been launched for the driver, the official said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/mp-5-killed-in-motorcycle-accidents-at-damoh-and-khargone-101640447919955.html
25-12-2021||India||Bharat Biotech gets nod for emergency use of Covid vaccine for children above 12 years||Bharat Biotech's Covaxin has been cleared for emergency use among kids above the age of 12 years, people familiar with the development said. The nod from the Drug Controller General of India came on Saturday, while the subject expert committee had recommended Covaxin for children of the age group of 12 to 18 years in October. This is the second vaccine to have received clearance for this age group, the first being Zydus Healthcare’s ZyCoV-D. No vaccine has been approved yet for children below the age of 12 years in India.  The development comes as India is facing the threat of Omicron, the latest variant of SARS-CoV-2, which is spreading very fast in the country. Hyderabad-based Bharat Biotech conducted a clinical trial of Covaxin in healthy volunteers aged 2 to 18 years. Recently, the Union ministry informed Parliament that the Central Drugs Standard Control Organisation sought additional information from Bharat Biotech in this regard.The ministry has not yet announced when children will be getting the vaccines against Covid-19. The decision will be taken in consultation with the National Expert Group on Vaccine Administration for COVID-19 (NEGVAC) and the National Technical Advisory Group on Immunisation (NTAGI).||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/bharat-biotech-gets-nod-for-emergency-use-of-vaccine-for-children-above-12-years-101640446807900.html
25-12-2021||India||Amit Shah launches Good Governance Index 2021; Gujarat tops composite ranking||Gujarat has topped the composite ranking in the Good Governance Index (GGI), followed by Maharashtra and Goa while Uttar Pradesh showed an incremental growth of 8.9 per cent in the indicators launched by Union Home Minister Amit Shah on the occasion of the Good Governance Day on Saturday.As many as 20 states have improved their composite GGI scores in 2021, according to the index.Gujarat topped the composite ranking in the 58 indicator index followed by Maharashtra and Goa.Uttar Pradesh has registered an 8.9 per cent improvement in the GGI indicators in the period 2019 to 2021 which Jammu and Kashmir registered an improvement of 3.7 per cent in the same period, it said.Delhi has topped the union territories category composite ranking.Shah released the GGI 2021 prepared by the Department of Administration Reforms and Public Grievances (DARPG) on Good Governance Day at Vigyan Bhawan here.On this occasion, Minister of State for Personnel Jitendra Singh said that the GGI would help assess the status of governance in states and union territories.The objectives of GGI are to provide quantifiable data to compare the state of governance in all states and union territories, enable them to formulate and implement suitable strategies for improving governance and shift to result-oriented approaches and administration.December 25 is observed as the good governance day to commemorate the birth anniversary of former prime minister Atal Bihari Vajpayee.The GGI-2021 said that Gujarat, Maharashtra and Goa topped the composite rank score covering 10 sectors.While Gujarat registered a 12.3 per cent increase, Goa registered a 24.7 per cent increase over GGI 2019 indicators.Gujarat has performed strongly in economic governance, human resource development, public infrastructure and utilities, social welfare and development, judiciary and public safety while Maharashtra scored in agriculture and allied sector, human resource development, public infrastructure and utilities, social welfare and development.Goa's showed good performance was in agriculture and allied sector, commerce and industry, public infrastructure and utilities, economic governance, social welfare and development and environment.Among the sectors, Uttar Pradesh secured top position in commerce and industry sector and has also shown an increase in social welfare and development and judiciary and public safety.It also performed in citizen-centric governance including public grievance redressal.The GGI 2021 framework covered 10 sectors and 58 indicators.The sectors are agriculture and allied sectors, commerce and industries, human resource development, public health, public infrastructure and utilities, economic governance, social welfare and development, judicial and public security, environment and citizen-centric governance.The GGI 2020-21 categorises states and union territories into four categories, -- other states - Group A; other states - group B; North-East and hill states and union territories.The GGI 2021 said that Jharkhand showed incremental growth of 12.6 per cent over GGI 2019 performance. It has performed strongly in seven of the 10 sectors.Rajasthan's incremental growth of 1.7 per cent was over the GGI 2019 performance. It has topped the other states (Group B) category in judiciary and public safety, environment and citizen-centric governance.In the Northeast and Hill States category, Mizoram, and Jammu and Kashmir have registered an overall increase of 10.4 per cent and 3.7 per cent respectively over GGI 2019.Mizoram has performed strongly in commerce and industry, human resource development, public health and economic governance.Jammu and Kashmir has performed strongly in commerce and industry sector and has improved its scores in agriculture and allied sector, public infrastructure and utilities and judiciary and public safety sectors.The GGI 2021 said that in the union territories category, Delhi tops the composite rank registering a 14 per cent increase over the GGI 2019 indicators. Delhi has performed strongly in agriculture and allied sectors, commerce and industry, public infrastructure and utilities and social welfare and development.The GGI 2021 said that 20 states have improved their composite GGI scores over the GGI 2019 index scores. The sector-wise scores attained by the states and union territories indicates that strong performance in one or the other sector.Analysis of scoring also suggests that there is a very marginal difference among the states in their composite governance scores. This indicates that overall governance in the states of India is moving in the positive direction.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/amit-shah-launches-good-governance-index-2021-gujarat-tops-composite-ranking-101640445626513.html
25-12-2021||India||News updates from HT: Delhi records biggest jump in new Covid cases since June, and all the latest news||Here are today’s top news, analysis, and opinion. Know all about the latest news and other news updates from Hindustan Times.Delhi sees biggest jump in new Covid cases since June, logs 249 infections amid Omicron spreadDelhi on Saturday registered more than 200 cases of coronavirus disease (Covid-19), the biggest single-day rise in number of infections since June, as Omicron variant continues to spread rapidly in the country. With as many as 249 fresh infections, Delhi's cumulative tally has shot up to 14,43,062. Read more…Don't allow Munawar Faruqui's show in Hyderabad, BJP MLA writes to DGP; says Hindus will come on roadsTelangana BJP MLA T Raja Singh on Saturday wrote to Telangana DGP requesting him to not allow comedian Munawar Faruqui to hold his scheduled show in Hyderabad on January 9. "Munawar Faruqui spreads hatred against Hindu Gods and Goddess. Read more…Congress makes merry on Christmas with ‘Thank God Santa’ tweets targeting BJP, ModiCongress on Saturday took swipe at Prime Minister Narendra Modi-led central government over inflation and fuel prices through a series of Christmas-themed tweets. Read more…Opinion | Omicron: There is a case for starting booster shotsAs concern about, if not fear of, Omicron grows with each passing day, should the government immediately authorise boosters for vulnerable sections of the population? The government’s policy is to fully vaccinate every adult before embarking on boosters. But is that still the right stand? Read more…Rahul Dravid breaks silence on Virat Kohli's white-ball captaincy row and 'individual conversations' he hadIndia head coach Rahul Dravid remained tight-lipped on the ongoing white-ball captaincy row pertaining to Virat Kohli following his fiery and controversial remarks to the media ahead of the team's departure for the South Africa Test series. Read more…BTS: RM and Jin test positive for Covid-19 after Suga, Big Hit Music confirms, gives update on their symptomsBTS members RM and Jin have tested positive for Covid-19, Big Hit Music has confirmed. Their diagnosis comes a day after fellow band member Suga tested positive for Covid-19. Read more…||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/news-updates-from-ht-delhi-record-biggest-jump-in-new-covid-cases-since-june-and-all-the-latest-news-101640443728508.html
25-12-2021||India||Support for anti-conversion bill in Upper House likely to be tougher for Karnataka BJP||Karnataka chief minister Basavaraj Bommai on Saturday said that the decision of not tabling the controversial anti-conversion bill was based on the lack of a clear majority in the upper house of the state legislature.“It is clear. We don’t have support in the upper house and there were three or four of our legislators who were not present,” Bommai said on Saturday.The statements come a day after the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) decided against tabling the bill, titled The Karnataka Protection of Right to Freedom of Religion Act, 2021, in the upper house, delaying a proposed legislation that is key to the saffron outfit’s core ideology to prevent any possible conversion from among the Hindus. The BJP had rushed through the bill in the lower house despite stiff opposition from the Congress and the Janata Dal (Secular) or JD(S).The bill, which has sent ripples across the minority communities in the state, was discussed for barely a few hours before it was passed with a voice vote over the screaming and sloganeering by the Congress.While the BJP has a clear majority in the assembly, as it stands, it still has to depend on the JD(S) to make it past the halfway mark of 38 in the 75-seater house.At least two people aware of the developments said that the bill will now be passed in the joint session of the house, though it remains unclear when it will be held or how the party will muster the required numbers, considering that the BJP has far bigger problems with its leadership.As it stands, there are 32 BJP members in the house, 29 of the Congress and 12 of the JD(S).This will change after the newly elected members enter the house with BJP much closer to the halfway mark at 37 after the party won 11 seats in the December 10 MLC polls while the Congress will be at 26. The JD(S) has been reduced to 10. The crucial part will be which way the independent candidate, Lakhan Jarkiholi, will swing.“We will get the support of Lakhan Jarkiholi since two of his brothers (Balachandra and Ramesh) are legislators in our party,” said one BJP MLC, requesting not to be named.The vote on this bill could help Ramesh and Balachandra assuage some of the anger within their party, a section of which believes that they put the interests of their family before that of the party’s.Ramesh believes that he can get Lakhan into the BJP but has revived his earlier demand of being re-inducted into the cabinet.One brother of the influential and powerful sugar barons, Satish Jarkiholi who is a legislator with the Congress, might also be called in from within his own party to help Lakhan not cast his vote in favour of the BJP.The JD(S), who’s walking out in “protest” during the anti-cattle slaughter bill, had indirectly helped the BJP in February, has tried to be on neutral ground this time, blaming both national parties for drafting a bill that would impact its voter base or at least does not make any significant improvement to its poll prospects by denting its secular credentials.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/support-for-anti-conversion-bill-in-upper-house-likely-to-be-tougher-for-karnataka-bjp-101640445507831.html
25-12-2021||India||17 girls at Chhattisgarh school test positive; reports of 476 students awaited||At least 17 girls of Classes VIII and X of Jawahar Navodaya Vidyalaya in Bhupdevpur in Chhattisgarh's Raigarh district have tested positive for COVID-19, an official said on Saturday. Raigarh Chief Medical and Health Officer Dr. S. N. Keshari said the 17 girls have been shifted from the hostel to a guesthouse and the entire school has been declared as a 'containment zone'. "The reports of the 13 girls returned positive on Friday and the remaining four on Saturday. Samples of 176 girls studying in Classes VI to XII were tested on Friday and that of 300 boys on Saturday. These results are awaited," he said."Last Sunday, parents of some of the children had come to meet them. One of the parents was infected. The health department has set up a camp to curb the spread and monitor the situation," he added. Incidentally, Raigarh district has led the daily addition tally in Chhattisgarh on December 18, 19, 21 and 22, local officials said. As of Friday, Chhattisgarh has a caseload of 10,07,540, including 13,597 deaths.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/17-girls-at-chhattisgarh-school-test-positive-reports-of-476-students-awaited-101640444262562.html
25-12-2021||India||HT This Day: Dec 26, 1968 - Spacemen Racing Back Home||Apollo-8 astronauts Frank Borman, James Lovell and William Anders were set to celebrate a comparatively relaxed Christmas Day in space after success fully breaking free from the grip of lunar gravity following their spectacular whirl around the moon. With a Christmas Eve message of good will to the world, “Please be informed there is a Santa Claus,” the spacemen started the return journey of their 480,000-mile round trip by successfully firing a blast from their main rocket engine. There were six frightening minutes while Apollo control tried repeatedly to get voice contact with the spacecraft. For the astronauts, who became the first men to see the moon at close range, the rocket firing was crucial. Had there been a malfunction, they might have been stranded in space to die when their oxygen ran out. The rocket firing came at 11-40 a.m. IST and minutes later Apollo wheeled out from behind the moon homebound at about 6.000 miles per hour. “We have signal and there’s a little bit of a cheer going up from the flight controllers here,” mission control reported. The three-minute 18-second burn added enough speed to the 3.600 miles per hour Apollo-8 was travelling to carry it away from the moon’s primary gravitational influence, and send it into the pull of the earth. “This gives you the sensation that you’re climbing.” Apillo-8 reported when confirmation of a good rocket burn was passed up to the spaceship. If all goes well, they will splash down in the Pacific Ocean south of Hawaii at 9.21 p.m. IST on Friday. As communications with the spacecraft were resumed and word was received of the successful firing, tension which had been building up in the flight control room in Houston was broken with a cheer.At the time the astronauts started their journey back, the moon was about 232,000 statute miles from the earth. However, the spacecraft will cover more than that distance, as it does not travel in a straight line. When voice contact with the spacecraft was re-established, there was a great deal of noise on the circuits which came through the Honeysuckle, Australia, receiving station. However, space officials said everything had been “very close to normal” and scientists at the centre were pleased with the burn. The first words uttered by the astronauts when they emerged from the communications blackout were: “Please be informed there is a Santa Claus.” Automatic telemetry contact was made just after the spacecraft cleared the dark side, but there were several minutes before the astronauts’ voices reported the results of the rocket burn. Flight controllers said they were satisfied the rocket firing would successfully bring the Apollo spacecraft back to earth on Friday as scheduled. If the crucial firing of the spacecraft engine as the craft sped above the dark side of the moon worried the astronauts, they showed no sign of concern. After a slight delay in restoring voice communications when the Apollo emerged from the moon’s far side, the first words, apparently Lovell’s, were not about the engine burn at all, but about Santa Claus. The Houston Space Centre said it seemed only two slight trajectory corrections would be necessary midway between the moon and the earth. The first is planned for 20.51 GMT (02.21 IST Thursday). This correction was to have been made at 09.09 GMT (14.39 IST) but was found not to be necessary at that stage. At 16.00 GMT (21.30 IST) today Apollo-8 was flying at 4,000 feet a second, 179,000 nautical miles from the earth. Some time after 18.00 GMT (23.30 IST) the spacecraft was expected to reach the noint where the earth’s pull will increase its speed. After his stint at the controls on the way back to earth, Anders -tired out from his extra work as the Apollo’s cameraman-took a sleeping pill and slept as his companions took over. Before he went to sleep one of the ground controllers radioed up to ask Barman to check whether Anders had hung up his socks for Father Christmas. Anders himself radioed back-to tell the ground control that he had put them beside his teddy bear. While he slept, Borman and Lovell received Christmas messages from their families. Mrs Borman sent a message to space to tell her husband that his two sons and the rest of the family were waiting eagerly for the Apollo’s return. Mrs Lovell reassured her husband that his presents were still round the Christmas Tree and that there was roast beef and Yorkshire pudding waiting for him when he returned to the house. From the spaceship, Lovell told the space centre that he and the others had not been able to find a chimney in the spacecraft and so they had not seen Father Christmas. Christmas message Earlier today as they prepared to return home, the astronauts sent a Christmas message to earth in which they quoted from the Book of Genesis and added: “And from the crew of the Apollo-8, we pause with good night, good luck, and Merry Christmas and God bless all of you-all of you on the good earth.” Mission controllers said that they were examining the taped record of the rocket burn before giving their final evaluation of its results. Conversations between ground and the Apollo crew were limited to exchanges of figures and technical information. Officials said preliminary estimates were that the burn lasted three minutes and 23 seconds, about six seconds longer than had been planned. One of the astronauts reported that it had been “a very, very nice ride,” and he expressed the crewmen’s thanks to everyone on the ground. Communications improved considerably as the spacecraft started back towards the earth. Observers at first thought they heard one of the astronauts saying the burn had lasted only two minutes, 23 seconds, but space officials said later that it actually had lasted three minutes, 23 seconds. A burn that was too short might have pushed the spacecraft into what is officially described as “an unstable orbit” and might have left them stranded. Borman, Lovell and Anders circled the moon 10 times in 20 hours and gazed down upon a bleak. colourless landscape of rugged mountains, crater-pitted plains and rugged highlands. Twice they shared their view with earthlings by beaming to earth dramatic pictures of the desolation as Apollo-8 flew just 112 km above the surface. They opened the telecast with a blurred picture looking across the lunar horizon at the earth. “The moon is a different thing to each of us.” commander Borman told the television audience. “My own impression is that it is a vast, forbidding expanse of nothing. It’s not a very inviting place to live or work.” Lovell said, “It makes you realize what you have back on earth,” which he termed “a grand oasis in the vastness of space.” Anders said he was impressed most by “lunar sunrises and sunsets.” Lot of bumbs While they reported the visible face of the moon to have areas which looked suitable for landing, Lovell described the back side as being “ all beat up -just a lot of bumps and holes.” The astronauts pointed out several craters near the Sea of Crisis, which they described as made of a “ dark level material with fresh bright impact areas toward the edge.” The camera showed the moon through the window of the spaceship as it passed its ninth and next-to-last orbit of the moon. The orbit had an apogee (high point) of 663 miles (about 95 km.) and a perigee (low point) of 58-9 miles (89 km.) above the lunar surface. At one point William Anders said he saw a dark area which “could possibly be an old lava flow. He described the moon as looking like “miles and miles of pumice stone.” The astronauts said the intensity of the sun’s reflection on the surface made it difficult to pick out features. But they approached the “terminator,” the line between dark and light on the moon where long shadows made the terrain easier to see. Borman. Lovell and Anders at 3-29 p.m. IST yesterday became the first human beings ever to see the moon at close range when their spacecraft swung into an orbit only some 60 nautical miles from the lunar surface. At that time the moon was more than 231.000 statute miles (nearly 370,000 kilometres) from earth. They gazed in astonishment at a sight never before seen by man - the backside of the moon that constantly hides itself from earth. The astronauts then zipped around to the front side to beam to earth dramatic pictures. During the 10 moon orbits Apollo-8 spacecraft astronauts were kept busy doing an almost non-stop series of navigational experiments, especially landmark tracking, taking photographs and carrying out the routine but necessary chores about the spacecraft. Air Force Col. Frank Borman remarked at one point that “as usual in the real world, the flight plan looks a lot fuller than it did in Florida.” Air Force Major William Anders particularly was kept on the hop taking photographs, “He is moving from one couch to another, he is using several kinds of cameras, changing lenses, and he is as busy as one man-one astronaut-could be,” space officials said. By it’s sixth revolution around the moon, the Apollo-8’s orbit had changed slightly to 62.3 by 59.8 nautical miles from the lunar surface, with a speed of 5,337 feet (1,626 metres) per second. Yesterday afternoon, Anders complained that the spacecraft’s side windows were so hazy “that when the sun shines on them…. they are real poor for any visual observation or photography.” Public Affairs Officer Paul Haney said that one of the few problems encountered on the Apollo.8 flight so far had been the fogging up of three of the spacecraft’s five windows. Ground tests conducted during the past few days had shown that a rubbery material used in the caulking of the fogged-up windows produced a certain amount of “outgassing” under simulated lunar orbital conditions. “A differently treated material used in the caulking of the other two windows did not produce any vapour,” he said. “Some changes will be made in subsequent spacecraft,” Mr Haney added. All spacecraft systems continued to be in good order. The three tired Apollo astronauts were given permission to modify their flight plan and take well-earned rest as they whirled towards the end of their 20-hour orbit of the moon. During the Apollo’s seventh revolution, Borman reported that he had a “tired crew” aboard after 14 hours of hectic activity as they circled the moon at a height of some 60 nautical miles. Borman asked for the flight plan to be modified so that Lovell and Anders, who have been kept on the hop peering through fogged-up windows to take sights and photographs, could get some extra sleep. Lovell’s voice had -earlier sounded tired as he talked to ground controllers. A few moments after being told he could stop work to take a rest, Borman reported “Lovell’s snoring already.” Meanwhile, the astronauts yesterday gave the world a final television close-up of the “vast, forbidding expanse of nothing” that is the moon and showed a shining earth, which they called “a grand oasis in the vastness of space,” a quarter-million miles away. The second and last telecast from Apollo-8’s lunar orbit opened with a view of the moon’s horizon, with a glowing disc-the earth-rising like a small sun. Frank Borman said the camera showed “the view of earth as we’ve been watching it for the past 15 hours.” Like guides taking an entire world on a celestial bus tour. the astronauts pointed out the colourfully-named lunar surface features. Sand pile William Anders also told ground controllers that the moon’s sunset would be the best time for a lunar touch down. And he advised against attempting a landing on the moon’s hidden face after spotting a crater which looked to have a volcanic origin.In one of the first descriptions of the dark side of the moon, Lovell told ground controllers: “It certainly looks like we picked a more interesting place on the moon to land in. The back side looks like a sand pile my kids have been playing in for a long time. It’s all beat up, no definition, just a lot of bumps and holes.” “The area we’re over right now gives some hint of possible volcanic action though I can’t eyeball it (see it clearly enough) at the moment to pin that down. There are some craters and build-ups that just definitely suggest volcanic activity.” Lovell added that planned landing triangles were “just right. I think, for landing conditions. The shadows aren’t too deep for you to get confused, the land has texture to it and enough shadows there should make everything stand out.” When told that London’s Flat Earth Society pooh-poohed the voyage, Borman said “the earth doesn’t look too flat from here.” The Apollo-8 crew will bring with them spectacular photographs of the moon-far better than any taken earlier by unmanned lunar probes, a National Aeronautics and Space Administration spokesman said today. The spokesman said the three Apollo astronauts will be bringing sharper, clearer pictures back with them, taken from better angles and of incomparably higher quality. The men’s direct statement on their own visual observations are expected to make a big contribution to scientists’ study of photographs and films taken during man’s first trip round the moon. The Apollo crewmen, who have seen the hidden side of the moon for the first time, may help scientists work out the beginnings of an answer to countless lunar mysteries, such as the existence of the craters which pit the surface, and the apparent formation of seas of dust despite the fact that no atmosphere exists on the moon.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/htthis-day-dec-26-1968-spacemen-racing-back-home-101640442506663.html
25-12-2021||India||24 Covid-19 cases detected in Nagpur in last 24 hours||Ahead of the imposition of night curfew, the Nagpur district administration were in for a rude shock as the district witnessed 24 new Covid-19 cases, the biggest tally in three months. Among the 24 new cases, 21 are from Nagpur city while three are from rural areas in the district. With the threat of the third wave looming large, senior officials of the district administration, including district collector Vimala R and Nagpur Municipal Corporation commissioner, Radhakrishnan B took stock of the situation in various places in Nagpur city and gave necessary instructions to the supervising authorities. It was on September 28 this year when the Nagpur district recorded 25 positive cases. However, no death was registered during the period. As many as 12 positive cases were reported from Nagpur on Friday. One of them is a woman, who had travelled to London. She has been admitted to AIIMS Nagpur and doctors are waiting for the reports of genome sequencing of her samples. Similarly, three foreign-returned symptomatic tourists have been admitted as suspected Covid-19 patients. The Omicron patient of Buldhana was discharged on Saturday after he tested negative. He had travel history. Now only one active Omicron patient is undergoing treatment in Nagpur at AIIMS. The 21-year-old patient, who returned from Dubai via Delhi on December 18, had tested positive for the Omicron variant. The youth was shifted to AIIMS Nagpur special ward as per Omicron surveillance norms on December 21, informed Dr Sanjay Chilkar, the chief medical officer of Nagpur Municipal Corporation. “He is stable and responding to medicine,” he further said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/24-covid-19-cases-detected-in-nagpur-in-last-24-hours-101640441726700.html
25-12-2021||India||Don't allow Munawar Faruqui's show in Hyderabad, BJP MLA writes to DGP; says Hindus will come on roads||Telangana BJP MLA T Raja Singh on Saturday wrote to Telangana DGP requesting him to not allow comedian Munawar Faruqui to hold his scheduled show in Hyderabad on January 9. "Munawar Faruqui spreads hatred against Hindu Gods and Goddess. We don't want the peace of Hyderabad to be disturbed in any way," the MLA wrote. If the event takes place, Hindus will come on roads and protests will take place, the MLA warned. This comes a day after Telangana's BJP MP Arvind Dharmapuri criticised minister KTR (KT Rama Rao) for welcoming Munawar. "Do you know who Munawar Faruqui is? He has cracked jokes on Goddess Sita, who is worshipped by the majority of Hindus. While a state like Karnataka has banned him, KTR has welcomed him into Telangana to perform comedy. Has the Hindu society become a comedy to this father-son? (KCR and KTR)," Dharampuri said on Friday.In his letter to the DGP, T Raja Singh gave a brief introduction of Munawar, his arrest and bail, and said the "joker" also spoke against ‘CAA Act, Godhra incidents and on deaths of Kar sevaks in many of his speeches’.
25-12-2021||India||Congress makes merry on Christmas with ‘Thank God Santa’ tweets targeting BJP, Modi||Congress on Saturday took swipe at Prime Minister Narendra Modi-led central government over inflation and fuel prices through a series of Christmas-themed tweets."Imagine dashing through the snow at Rs. 95/litre," Congress tweeted with a picture of Santa Claus on a sleigh pulled by reindeer. The image accompanied a message which read: "Thank god Santa rides a sleigh, he doesn't need to pay for hefty prices for fuel.”Imagine dashing through the snow at Rs.95/litre. pic.twitter.com/oIlqKGaQbeAlleging that PM Modi is busy gifting “himself and his crony capitalist friends”, Congress posted another Christmas-themed image with a message that said, “Thank god Santa is there to give everybody.”“Jingle bells, jingle bells, ports, airports, roads, railways, are just a few things Modi ji sells,” the party tweeted along with the image."Jingle bells... Jingle bells...Jingle all the way. Oh what fun it would be to buy things...without burning all your savings away," the Congress said in another tweet.Jingle bells... Jingle bells...Jingle all the way.Oh what fun it would be to buy things...without burning all your savings away. pic.twitter.com/8yEvnHTmR7In another dig, Congress tweeted, “He's not making a list, The govt's not checking anything twice; They have no data on- who's naughty or nice.""Thank God Santa has a naughty and nice list, because our government has no data," a message with a Santa image was posted from Congress’ Twitter handle read.Congress further said that PM Modi’s suit has been a subject of discussion as his name was embroidered all over it and the price was of the suit was in lakhs. It added that the prime minister, on the other hand, gifted the public increased GST on clothes and shoes.“He does run the suit-boot-loot sarkar after all,” another tweet read.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/congress-makes-merry-on-christmas-with-thank-god-santa-tweets-targeting-bjp-modi-101640439308502.html
25-12-2021||India||'Maharashtra will face lockdown if...': Minister's warning amid Omicron rise||Maharashtra health minister Rajesh Tope on Saturday said statewide lockdown will be imposed only if the demand for medical oxygen touches 800 metric tons per day. The state government does not want people to face more restrictions, the health minister said urging people to follow Covid appropriate behaviour strictly. Maharashtra has 108 cases of Omicron, the highest in the country, while the countrywide tally of Omicron has reached 415.On Saturday, Mumbai added 757 fresh Covid cases in a marked surge.The state government has already imposed some restrictions, including restrictions on any gathering of more than five persons between 9pm to 6am and a cap on the number of people attending public events in the state.Omicron cases were increasing "rapidly", but in general such patients were not ending up in ICU nor did they need supplementary oxygen, the health minister said, speaking to reporters in Jalna. "There will be statewide lockdown only if the demand for medical oxygen rises to 800 metric tons (per day). We do not want people to face more restrictions, therefore I am making an appeal to people to follow Covid-appropriate behaviour. Wearing a mask is very important,” he said.According to scientists who have been tracking Omicron cases it is unlikely that Omicron might lead to any breathing difficulties as the variant is believed to be multiplying in the throat. However, as the variant is spreading faster, it will eventually lead to pressure on the healthcare system, as seen in other countries.Seeing the surge of Omicron, experts have projected a third wave of the pandemic in the country at the beginning of 2022 -- in January and February. The severity of the projected wave is unlikely to be intense.As the Centre has urged all states and Union territories to be alert amid the festive season, the Mumbai civic authorities have already banned New Year celebration parties, gatherings in closed or open spaces.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/maharashtra-will-face-lockdown-if-minister-s-warning-amid-omicron-rise-101640438074084.html
25-12-2021||India||'BJP will change Constitution…if voted to power again in 2024': Digvijaya Singh||Congress leader Digvijaya Singh on Saturday claimed that the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) will change the Constitution and end the reservation system if it is voted to power again in 2024.Speaking during Jan Jagran Abhiyan in Bhopal in Madhya Pradesh, Singh stated that Congress has a fight with the ideology of the Rashtriya Swayamsevak Sangh (RSS).The Congress leader reiterated that Hindutva had nothing to do with Hinduism."Veer Savarkar, in his book, had said that Hinduism has nothing to do with Hindutva. He never considered cow as 'maata' and had no problem in consuming beef," the Congress leader said."Our fight is with the ideology of RSS. If BJP is voted back to power in 2024, they will first change the constitution and end reservation," he added.The Congress party had launched a countrywide agitation programme, 'Jan Jagran Abhiyan' on November 14 to expose the mismanagement of the economy by the Centre.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/bjp-will-change-constitution-if-voted-to-power-again-in-2024-digvijaya-singh-101640436635048.html
25-12-2021||India||6 including Manipur legislator’s brother held over student’s murder||Six people including the brother of a sitting MLA have been arrested in connection with the murder of a college student in Manipur’s Thoubal district, police said on Saturday.The arrested men are Thokchom Bishorjit alias Putro Singh, Ningthoujam Panan Singh, Thokchom Sanathoi Singh, Thokchom Henrik, Laishram Biken and Khundongbam Nicky alias Anju Singh, all from Heirok area.According to the police, Ningthoujam Rohit (21), a Thoubal College student, was killed while his father Premchandra (53) was injured in firing related to pre-poll violence at Heirok Part II village under Heirok Assembly Constituency in the early hours of December 22.Manipur Chief Minister N Biren Singh on Thursday visited the deceased student’s father who is currently under treatment at a hospital in Imphal.A Special Investigation Team of the Manipur Police made the arrests based on a complaint lodged by the family of the deceased student at the Heirok police station. The arrested men are likely to be produced before the court soon.Manipur will go for assembly polls in the early part of 2022 along with the states of Goa, Punjab, Uttarakhand and Uttar Pradesh. In the 2017 assembly elections, BJP candidate Th Radheshyam was elected from Heirok Assembly Constituency.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/6-including-manipur-legislator-s-brother-held-over-student-s-murder-101640436865699.html
25-12-2021||India||4 terrorists killed in 2 encounters in Jammu and Kashmir||Four terrorists were killed in two separate encounters in Jammu and Kashmir on Saturday. While one of the gunbattles took place in Shopian, the other one broke out in Pulwama district.According to Jammu and Kashmir Police, the terrorists gunned down in Shopian belonged to Lashkar-e-Taiba (LeT), while those eliminated in Pulwama are yet to be identified.The two LeT terrorists have been identified as Sajad Ahmad Chak, resident of Braripora, Shopian and Raja Basit Yaqoob of Achan Litter in Pulwama."According to police records, both the terrorists were linked with proscribed terror outfit LeT and were part of groups involved in several terror cases. Chak was also instrumental in motivating and recruiting the youth in the terrorist group," said a police official.The police added that incriminating materials, and arms and ammunition - including two AK series rifles, four AK magazines and 32 rounds - were seized from the two terrorists.The second encounter broke out in Hardumir, in Tral area of Pulwama district. Two unidentified militants were killed in the gunfight. Their identification and group affiliation was being done, according to police.On Friday, the security forces had neutralised a Hizbul Mujahideen terrorist in Kashmir's Anantnag district, who was involved in the killings of a policeman, civilians and others.Two other people - associates of LeT terrorists - were also arrested in Budgam in Jammu and Kashmir.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/4-terrorists-killed-in-2-encounters-in-jammu-and-kashmir-101640435619906.html
25-12-2021||India||Night curfew from tomorrow in Assam; curbs not applicable on New Year Eve||The Assam government on Saturday announced a night curfew from 11.30pm to 6am across the state amid a rise in Omicron infections in the rest of the country. Assam is yet to report any confirmed cases of Omicron variant of coronavirus. The revised directive from the Assam State Disaster Management Authority (ASDMA) will come into effect from December 26 but won’t be applicable on December 31, New Year Eve. According to the fresh order, all workplaces, business establishments, eateries, showrooms, grocery stores, dairy and milk booths will not be allowed to remain open after 10.30pm.The state authority has directed the district disaster management authorities (DDMAs) to fix the limit of gathering in open spaces depending on the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) situation in their respective districts. The ASDMA has allowed closed venues to operate at 50% of their seating capacity.The government has allowed iconic religious places to operate with 60 fully vaccinated persons per hour and other religious places with 40 fully vaccinated individuals per hour. Cinema hall will continue to operate with 50% of seating capacity, only to be occupied by fully vaccinated viewers with Covid appropriate measures."For Omicron specific regulation, all district magistrates, superintendent of Police, and all other authorities concerned shall be responsible for ensuring Covid Appropriate Behaviour in all public places for containment of Covid-19 virus," the order read.Several states have announced a fresh set of restrictions in view of rising cases of the highly contagious Omicron variant. On Friday, Maharashtra announced a night curfew from 9am to 6pm as the state continues to report the highest number of Omicron cases. Maharashtra has so far reported 108 infections from Omicron, followed by Delhi (79), Gujarat (43), Telangana (38), Kerala (38).||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/night-curfew-from-tomorrow-in-assam-curbs-not-applicable-on-new-year-eve-101640434727648.html
25-12-2021||India||Manish Tiwari attacks Harish Rawat on 'his master's voice' dig, recaps 2012||When Uttarakhand Congress leader Harish Rawat tweeted about 'tied hands' indicating helplessness in the party ahead of the election in 2022, senior Congress leader Manish Tewari took a dig at Rawat reminding him of his role in 'unsettling' the equation in the party in Assam and Punjab. A meeting between Rahul Gandhi and Harish Rawat on Friday in New Delhi settled the situation as the party decided that Harish Rawat will lead the party in the upcoming election. However, what remained ruffled is the air between Harish Rawat and Manish Tewari.Commenting on Manish Tiwari's dig, Harish Rawat said he must have heard 'his master's voice' hinting at Amarinder Singh's influence. Giving back, Manish Tewari tweeted, "For some people, it is always and only about themselves unfortunately whether 2012 or 2021. Their only master is their own personal ambition," Tewari said offering a recap of what happened. Through the news article, Tewari claimed that it was not Harish Rawat's first revolt against the Congress. He had erupted in 2012 as well being denied the CM post. For some people it is unfortunately only and only about themselves whether it is 2012 or 2021.Their only master is their own personal ambition. This report of 14 th March 2012 eloquently speaks for itself. https://t.co/7Ed2g8oM5gI rest my Case @harishrawatcmuk ji @ANI https://t.co/WlGNHwSYV4In cryptic tweets, Harish Rawat on Wednesday expressed displeasure over factionalism in the state unit of the party. "Isn't it strange, one has to swim in the sea in the form of forthcoming electoral battle, instead of cooperation, the organisational structure at most places is turning its face away or is playing a negative role," Rawat said. "There are many crocodiles of the ruling dispensation. On whose directions one has to swim, their nominees are tying my hands and feet," he added. As this triggered speculations that Congress's trusted aide Harish Rawat was apparently upset over the functioning of the party, former Punjab chief minister Amarinder Singh grabbed the opportunity and reminded Rawat that one reaps as he sows, referring to Rawat's role in Punjab Congress leading to Amarinder Singh's resignation from the CM post. Reacting to Amarinder Singh's comment, Rawat on Saturday said, "I accept his best wishes. I think somewhere he is still feeling that quitting Congress was a mistake. And Manish Tewari is just following his master's (Amarinder) voice, as Amarinder Singh is following his master's voice," Rawat said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/manish-tiwari-attacks-harish-rawat-on-his-master-s-voice-dig-recaps-2012-101640434300056.html
25-12-2021||India||Survey reveals top global concerns; here's what Indians are worried about most||A monthly survey by market research company Ipsos has said that the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) is back on the top of the list of global issues. The latest round of 28-country ‘What Worries the World’ survey was conducted between November 19 and December 3.The concerns around Covid-19 were dropping steadily from January, said Ipsos, adding that ceased to be the number 1 global issue in October this year. But with the spread of the Omicron variant, the disease returned as top global issue in December, the survey added.Ipsos also said that concerns around poverty and social inequality are almost as prominent.Thirty two per cent of the respondents said that Covid-19 is their top worry (a four-point increase against November), followed by 31 per cent voting for poverty and social inequality. As many as 65 per cent of respondents said that things in their country are off on the wrong track.However, this is still short of September's score of 36 per cent.Ipsos had taken 18 issues for the survey, which include unemployment, financial/political corruption, crime and violence, healthcare, inflation, taxes, climate change, education, immigration control, moral decline, threats against the environment, rise of extremism, terrorism, maintaining social programmes, childhood obesity and access to credit apart from the two listed above.Poverty and social inequality is the number one concern in four countries - Russia (54%), Colombia (45%) and Brazil (43%) - according to the Ipsos survey.In India, worry around unemployment and job security is on top of the list, at 41 per cent, Ipsos said. Financial and political corruption is the second leading cause of worry among urban India, it further added.But, 70 per cent of urban Indians believe the country is moving in the right direction, Ipsos said about the findings of its latest survey.The countries included in the survey are Argentina, Australia, Belgium, Brazil, Canada, Chile, Colombia, France, Great Britain, Germany, Hungary, India, Israel, Italy, Japan, Malaysia, Mexico, Netherlands, Peru, Poland, Russia, Saudi Arabia, South Africa, South Korea, Spain, Sweden, Turkey, and the United States. In all 19,003 online interviews were conducted between the survey period, said Ipsos.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/survey-reveals-top-global-concerns-here-s-what-indians-are-worried-about-most-101640433952388.html
25-12-2021||India||Congress and corruption go hand-in-hand: Uttarakhand CM on Harish Rawat issue||Uttarakhand chief minister and Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) leader Pushkar Singh Dhami on Saturday took a jibe at the state's Congress party unit in an apparent reference to the recent controversy over Harish Rawat's tweets. Addressing a gathering on the occasion of former Prime Minister of India and BJP veteran Atal Bihari Vajpayee's 97th birth anniversary , Dhami said that Congress and corruption are “synonymous with each other,” according to a tweet by Uttarakhand CMO, which was posted in Hindi.“We have seen how black deeds were done and corruption was encouraged in the opposition (Congress) government,” Dhami added.He said that the “greed” among Congress party members is so much that they are ready to fight among themselves and divide into two factions.
25-12-2021||India||News updates from HT: Scientists say Omicron has common cold-like symptoms and all the latest news||Here are today’s top news, analysis, and opinion. Know all about the latest news and other news updates from Hindustan Times.New research claims Omicron has cold-like symptoms, resembles parainfluenzaAmid the global spread of the Omicron variant of coronavirus, scientists in the United Kingdom have said that its symptoms now match those of common cold. Read more.After Bommai fuels exit rumour, BJP leaders say ‘conspiracy to create confusion’The Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) on Saturday termed the speculations around Karnataka chief minister Basavaraj Bommai’s possible exit a “conspiracy to create confusion”. Read more.Harbhajan Singh says he will serve Punjab, 'maybe via politics'Putting speculations of his joining the Congress ahead of the Punjab election immediately after he announced his retirement from cricket, Harbhajan Singh on Saturday said he will make an announcement if he joins any party. Read more.Mumbai Police shares puzzles to 'accelerate' people’s knowledge of road safetyWhen it comes to sharing advisories with a touch of creativity, then Mumbai Police should definitely get an A+. Read more.'He's under pressure': Ex-England spinner feels Kohli knows his 'position could be up for grabs' if he doesn't score bigFormer England cricketer Monty Panesar feels that the loss of ODI captaincy role and the off-field controversy that followed following his fiery remarks ahead of the departure for the South Africa Test series will motivate Virat Kohli to bounce back to scoring ways and break the 763-days century drought. Read more.Milind Soman is 'getting ready for the last long run' of 2021Milind Soman's fitness motivations are getting better with each passing day. Read more.Kareena Kapoor, Saif Ali Khan, Taimur and Jeh step out for Kapoor family X-Mas lunch after her covid recovery. See picsKareena Kapoor looked happy as she stepped out for a family lunch on Saturday. Read more.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/news-updates-from-ht-scientists-say-omicron-has-common-cold-like-symptoms-101640430735292.html
25-12-2021||India||21 fresh Omicron cases recorded in Rajasthan, state's tally now 43||The Omicron variant of coronavirus has been spreading fast in India. On Saturday, Rajasthan reported 21 cases of the new strain, a huge spike which took the Omicron tally in the state to 43.Also Read | New study claims Omicron has cold-like symptomsOf these, 11 are from Jaipur, six from Ajmer and three from Udaipur. One of the patients is from Maharashtra.The presence of Omicron was confirmed came after samples of people reporting Covid-like symptoms were sent to National Institute of Virology in Pune, Rajasthan’s health department said on Saturday.Among these infected, five had returned from foreign countries while three others had come in contact with foreign travellers.Giving the breakout of the Omicron cases in Rajasthan, the health department said that 28 are from Jaipur, seven from Ajmer, four from Sikar and three from Udaipur. Then there is one patient from Maharashtra.India has so far recorded more than 400 cases of the Omicron variant of coronavirus, out of which 115 have recovered or migrated, according to the Union Health Ministry's data updated on Saturday.Maharashtra has recorded a maximum of 108 Omicron cases, followed by Delhi at 79. Gujarat and Rajasthan are next in the list with both the states having 43 cases of the new strain.Telangana has 38 Omicron cases, while Kerala has 37, Tamil Nadu 34 and Karnataka 31.India's Covid tally rose to 3,47,79,815 with 7,189 fresh cases in the last 24 hours, while the active cases have declined to 77,032, according to health ministry update at 8am.The death toll climbed to 4,79,520 with 387 more fatalities, the data showed.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/21-fresh-omicron-cases-recorded-in-rajasthan-state-s-tally-now-43-101640431255274.html
25-12-2021||India||22 farm unions float political party Samyukt Samaj Morcha to contest Punjab polls, SKM doesn't approve||Around 22 unions of farmers that were part of Samyukt Kisan Morcha which helmed the year-long protest against the three contentious farm bills have come together to float a political unit Samyukt Samaj Morcha to take party in Punjab assembly elections. The political front of the farmers in Punjab will be led by Balbir Singh Rajewal. Samyukt Kisan Morcha, however, clarified its stance on this and, distancing itself from the political outfit, said the name of SKM should not be used in the election campaign.Three farm bodies including BKU (Dakounda) and BKU (Lakhowal) will decide shortly whether to join the party. The new party will be contesting from all 117 seats, farmer leaders confirmed on Saturday. Rajewal said he was under tremendous pressure from the people of Punjab to contest the polls after the three contentious farm laws were withdrawn in a victory of the farmers. Punjab is facing a lot of problems such as drugs, unemployment and the migration of youth from the state which they want to address.The farm laws, the year-long protest against them and finally teh withdrawal of those laws in an announcement made by Prime Minister Narendra Modi set the stage for the Assembly election in Punjab. Farmers' unions in their major decision to contest this crucial election may seek an alliance with the Aam Aadmi Party, it is being speculated. Any such alliance will be announced later, the farmer leaders said. Many farm unions, which were part of SKM, the umbrella organisation, decided to stay away from electoral politics. Kirti Kisan Union, Krantikari Kisan Union, BKU-Krantikari, Doaba Sangharsh Committee, BKU-Sidhupur, Kisan Sangharsh Committee and Jai Kisan Andolan are against joining the fray. The SKM said its main objective was to push for the withdrawal of the farm laws. Gurnam Singh Chaduni, a member of SKM's core committee, has also floated a political outfit, Samyukta Sangharsh Party, which will contest in the assembly elections.
25-12-2021||India||After Karnataka CM Bommai fuels exit rumour, BJP leaders say ‘conspiracy to create confusion’||The Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) on Saturday termed the speculations around Karnataka chief minister Basavaraj Bommai’s possible exit a “conspiracy to create confusion”. BJP Karnataka unit chief Nalin Kumar Kateel asserted that Bommai will remain the chief minister till the next state Assembly elections, calling the reports “a figment of imagination”, news agency PTI reported."Bommai is going to be the Chief Minister till the next election, which is 2023. There is no leadership change," Kateel told reporters in Bengaluru, as quoted by PTI.Bommai fuelled speculations of his early exit while delivering an emotional address in his home district of Haveri.“Nothing is permanent in this world. This life is also not forever. In such a situation these posts and positions are also not permanent; this is something we should always be aware of all the time,” Bommai said amid multiple reports suggesting a possible leadership change early next year.Citing people familiar with the development, HT reported that Bommai is likely to be replaced but there is no official confirmation as it would dent the party’s chances in the upcoming polls, including Zilla and taluka panchayat, and Bruhat Bengaluru Mahanagara Palike (the city’s civic body)."This news (about Bommai's exit) is a figment of imagination. I feel this is a conspiracy to create confusion, problem in the state politics and to defame the BJP government," Kateel said, suspecting the involvement of Congress behind the rumours.Kateel also dismissed the rumour mills that claimed the Bommai was expected to go abroad for knee-related surgery and the change would happen around that time."He is not going abroad. There is nothing wrong with his health but only some leg related issues for which he is getting treatment. He is healthy. His leg related problem will be cured here only," Kateel said, as quoted by PTI.Union minister Pralhad Joshi also dismissed the reports, saying Basavaraj Bommai will remain Karnataka chief minister till 2023."There is no leadership change. I am always in touch with our national-level leaders regularly and I have a good relationship with them. If such was the case, then certainly I would have come to know. There is no such proposal. He is doing a good job," he added.(With agency inputs)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/after-karnataka-cm-bommai-fuels-exit-rumour-bjp-leaders-say-conspiracy-to-create-confusion-101640428600712.html
25-12-2021||India||Why do vaccinated people too get Covid? Study breaks down how virus transmits||A new study has revealed that the SARS-CoV-2 virus uses an underground form of transmission mostly staying away from the immune system and spreading from cell to cell. The research paper, led by Shan-Lu Liu, a virology professor in the Department of Veterinary Biosciences at The Ohio State University, breaks down in detail the mechanism in which the virus is spreading.Simply put, the virus spreads from one cell to another as there is no immunity to prevent them there. They remain tucked within cell walls. Target cell becomes a donor cell and thus a wave is created, the research paper published in the journal Proceedings of the National Academy of Sciences, said.The researchers said that this cell-to-cell transmission is not sensitive to inhibition from antibodies generated either through vaccines or through the previous infection. "We were able to confirm cell-to-cell transmission is not sensitive to inhibition from antibodies from COVID patients or vaccinated individuals," Liu said. "Cell-to-cell transmission's resistance to antibody neutralization is probably something we should watch for as SARS-CoV-2 variants continue to emerge, including the most recent, Omicron. In this sense, developing effective antiviral drugs targeting other steps of viral infection is critical," Liu added.As the SARS virus is not new, the research paper compared SARS-CoV-2 with SARS-CoV which was behind the SARS outbreak of 2003. It said that the previous version led to a much higher fatality rate and lasted only eight months, while this version is continuing the pandemic for almost two years now. And one thing that helps SARS-CoV-2 to escape antibodies is cell-to-cell transmission.With fresh cases of Covid rising in the world again, restrictions are back in place. Omicron, the latest variant of SARS-CoV-2, first identified in South Africa on November 24, is the latest threat as it appears to be spreading faster than the previous variants.The emergence of Omicron reveals that vaccinated people are also getting infected by this variant. Even people who have received booster doses against Covid are not safe from the infection. WHO has emphasised that vaccines, booster doses are not the only answer to the pandemic, Covid-appropriate behaviour is||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/why-do-vaccinated-people-too-get-covid-study-breaks-down-how-virus-transmits-101640428895266.html
25-12-2021||India||Jaipur: Gold biscuit worth ₹24.32 lakh seized at airport||Customs officials recovered 491 grams of gold biscuits worth ₹24.32 lakh from a passenger on Friday who arrived from Sharjah, said a press release on Saturday.According to the release, the passenger had arrived by Air Arabia flight.On examination of his checked-in baggage in the x-ray machine, dark images of some objects inside the face shaver machine (trimmer) were noticed which indicated concealment of some heavy/precious metal like gold etc. On inquiring, the Pax denied being in possession of / carrying any such items and could not provide any satisfactory explanation.On dismantling the face shaver machine (trimmer), four solid biscuits of fine gold (of 99.99% purity) duly packed by black carbon plastic sheet of multilayers were found concealed and one small Gold Biscuit of fine Gold (purity of 99.99%) was found separately packed in black Carbon plastic Sheet.The smuggled gold has been seized under the provision of the Customs Act, 1962.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/jaipur-gold-biscuit-worth-rs-24-32-lakh-seized-at-airport-101640426379314.html
25-12-2021||India||Attacks ‘warm bodies’, infecting children: Doctor who first identified Omicron||A researcher who first identified the Omicron variant said India will witness a surge in coronavirus disease (Covid-19) cases driven by the new variant of concern but the infection hopefully be mild in most people as seen in South Africa. Dr Angelique Coetzee told news agency PTI that existing Covid-19 vaccines will greatly help reduce the spread of the Omicron variant, warning that unvaccinated individuals are at 100 per cent risk from the strain. She said that vaccinated individuals or those with natural immunity from the prior infection will spread the virus strain to fewer people but the unvaccinated people will potentially spread the virus 100 per cent."Existing vaccines would greatly help to reduce the spreading, as we know that you would spread only about 1/3 if vaccinated or had previous history of being infected by Covid, while unvaccinated people will potentially spread the virus 100 per cent," PTI quoted Coetzee as saying.Coetzee, who is also the chairperson of the South African Medical Association, rejected the expert opinions that the Covid-19 is heading towards an end with a comparatively weaker Omicron variant. She opined that it will be difficult for the ongoing pandemic to end soon, adding that it may become endemic soon, reported PTI."India will see a surge in Omicron-driven Covid-19 cases and simultaneously there will be a high-positivity rate. But hopefully the majority of the cases will be as mild as what we are seeing here in South Africa," she said, as quoted by PTI.Fresh research claims Omicron has cold-like symptoms, looks like parainfluenzaIndia has so far reported 415 confirmed cases of Omicron variant from 17 states and Union territories, with Maharashtra leading the tally. Several states have announced new measures to control the spread of the variant of concern, including night curfews.The South African expert said that Omicron attacks “warm bodies” and is also infecting children."... for now Omicron is not threatening but it is fast spreading with a high infectivity rate, but less severe cases in hospitals. The virus' sole purpose is to infect a warm body and to survive. And yes, children are also being infected by it, but they are recovering in an average of five-six days," she said.(With agency inputs)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/attacks-warm-bodies-infects-children-what-expert-has-to-say-on-omicron-101640424292498.html
25-12-2021||India||2021 in numbers: Recovery in education is not same for genders or states||One big impact of the social distancing measures required for preventing a surge in Covid-19 infections has been on education. This impact is not just limited to the shift to online modes of learning. The loss of jobs and incomes due to the pandemic has also meant that children were put out of school in 2020. With some recovery in economic activity, there has been a reversal in this trend in education in 2021. However, like the economy, even this recovery in education has been far from uniform. Here are four charts that show how.
25-12-2021||India||Decisions that doesn't just look good but also 'did' good: Shah lauds Modi govt||Union home minister Amit Shah on Saturday heaped praises on Prime Minister Narendra Modi saying the government led by him has taken decisions that never looked good on the paper but have always done good to the people.“Narendra Modi govt never took decisions that 'looks' good to the people, he always took decisions that 'did' good to the people,” news agency ANI quoted Amit Shah as saying at an event in Delhi.The home minister also attacked the previous governments saying the decisions taken by them were made keeping their “vote banks” in mind. “The last 21 governments have taken decisions keeping in mind their vote banks,” he said.Previously, Amit Shah had lauded PM Modi for helping India steadily recover from the Covid-19 pandemic, drawing comparisons with other governments in the world, who he said, were reporting "ups and downs" in their Covid-19 trajectory.“Many governments fought against Covid-19 in the world, but in India, Prime Minister Narendra Modi ensured that people would join the government’s fight against the pandemic. Even at present, many countries are reporting ups and down in Covid-19 cases, but India is steadily coming out of it,” Shah said at the National Awards for Excellence in Corporate Governance 2021 in Mumbai on December 19.Meanwhile, Amit Shah is slated to inaugurate South Delhi Municipal Corporation’s (SDMC) Bharat Darshan Park in Punjabi Bagh on Saturday.The inauguration, which was initially slated for Friday, was postponed due to technical reasons, said civic officials. SDMC mayor Mukesh Suryan said that it was “a matter of pride that the SDMC has carried forward the amazing concept of waste-to-wealth to provide another attractive park to the people of Delhi”.Earlier in the day, Amit Shah paid floral tribute at 'Sadaiv Atal' on the occasion of former Prime Minister Atal Bihari Vajpayee's birth anniversary.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/decisions-that-doesn-t-just-look-good-for-also-did-good-shah-lauds-modi-govt-101640423609656.html
25-12-2021||India||PM contributes ₹1,000 to party fund, urges to make ‘BJP strong, India strong’||Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Saturday donated ₹1,000 towards the BJP fund as the BJP launched a special micro-donation camp on December 25, on the birth anniversary of former PM Atal Bihari Vajpayee. The drive will continue till February 11."I have donated Rs. 1,000 towards the party fund of the Bharatiya Janata Party. Our ideal of always putting Nation First and the culture of lifelong selfless service by our cadre will be further strengthened by your micro-donation. Help make BJP strong. Help make India strong," PM Modi tweeted along with the receipt of the donation. I have donated Rs. 1,000 towards the party fund of the Bharatiya Janata Party. Our ideal of always putting Nation First and the culture of lifelong selfless service by our cadre will be further strengthened by your micro donation. Help make BJP strong. Help make India strong. pic.twitter.com/ENdytJYEj5Union home minister Amit Shah, BJP chief JP Nadda too shared the screenshots of their contribution."Any donation to the BJP is a contribution towards a stronger New India. You can contribute through the 'Donation' module of the NaMo App. I have done my part and appeal to all our supporters and karyakartas to donate and inspire others for the same," Amit Shah tweeted."From the birth anniversary of Atal ji today, 25th December, till 11th February 2022, the Punya Tithi of Deen Dayal ji, the BJP is launching a special micro-donation campaign. Your support will empower the party that always puts India First," JP Nadda tweeted."Our Karyakartas will connect with millions of people through this micro-donation campaign. 'Donation' module in the NaMo App will be the medium through which we will collect these donations. I seek the blessings of people to strengthen the world's largest nationalist movement," the BJP chief said. The contribution can range from ₹5 to ₹1,000, the party said in a statement.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/pm-contributes-rs-1-000-to-party-fund-urges-to-make-bjp-strong-india-strong-101640423220407.html
25-12-2021||India||Jama Masjid needs special care||The iconic Jama Masjid is in urgent need of conservation as several portions of the Mughal-era monument has suffered serious structural damage including the main dome, minarets and the courtyard, the Shahi Imam of the mosque Syed Ahmed Bukhari has said. Bukhari said he wrote to Prime Minister Narendra Modi on June 6, to direct the Archaeological Survey of India (ASI) to pitch in with specialists to conserve the seventeenth century building since the mosque is not among the ASI-protected monuments. The same letter was marked to the ASI (Delhi Circle). The Shahi Imam said as a stopgap arrangement the mosque management was forced to use regular building material to repair the structure, which the experts said, will alter the original structure. He said the mosque authorities had to use cement to repair the damage to the dome and the mezzanine floor to prevent seepage in November. Conservation experts say use of normal building material could alter the original structure, and added that lime mortar was used as plaster in the monuments built in the medieval period. This is why use of cement is discouraged, they said. Before the repairs were undertaken in November, Bukhari approached both the Prime Minister’s Office and ASI after a thunderstorm and heavy showers led to the collapse of a red sandstone slab from one of the mosque’s minarets. The heavy slab also damaged the mosque courtyard. The mosque’s dome and a mezzanine floor is also in dire need of repairs with deep cracks running between the slabs and the pillars supporting the terrace. Urging Prime Minister Narendra Modi to direct the Archaeological Survey of India (ASI) to inspect the monument and carry out necessary repairs, Bukhari said the central heritage body has been conserving the masjid under special arrangement. Bukhari had also written to the Prime Minister in 2017, following which the ASI was directed to undertake a survey of the damage and help with the conservation. Earlier this month, three Members of Parliament (MPs) raised the issue of conservation of the Jama Masjid in the House. Samajwadi Party’s Shafiqur Rahman Barq said that ASI was not carrying out repairs despite the mosque’s rapidly deteriorating condition. Kunwar Danish Ali of the Bahujan Samaj Party also raised the issue of the dilapidated condition of the Jama Masjid, and asked if the government will work towards saving the legacy and heritage of the mosque. Ali said that the mosque was visited by foreign heads of states and diplomats but it was not getting any attention from the ASI. He said the ASI manages repair and conservation of several monuments that were not under its ambit, and was doing the same for Jama Masjid, until three years ago. PV Abdul Wahab from the IUML (Indian Union Muslim League) also raised the issue. In response to Ali’s question, Union culture and tourism minister G Kishan Reddy said the government could take up a proposal for the mosque’s repair provided it came from the Delhi government. “The ASI protects over 4,000 monuments in the country. The Jama Masjid is not among these monuments, but if the state government gave us any proposal seeking ASI intervention for maintenance through the central government, we can take up the proposal,” said Reddy. Mughal emperor Shahjahan built the mosque in 1656. During the Lok Sabha proceedings on Monday, TMC MP Sajda Ahmed asked the culture minister if the government had conducted a survey to assess the damage and the scope of work at Jama Masjid. She also sought details about the funds that ASI had allocated for repairs if any. In a written response, tourism minister Reddy said that the ASI provided funds for the conservation of Jama Masjid as and when required and shared expenditure details on conservation of Jama Masjid between 2017-20.Bukhari said that Jawaharlal Nehru had given a go-ahead to repairs and conservation support at the mosque as a special case. “Prime Minister Nehru met my father, then Shahi Imam, along with Maulana Abul Kalam Azad who sought that work is carried out Jama Masjid as a special case. The practise of repairs by ASI is on then. I believe that if an accurate account of the long-term arrangement is shared with Prime Minister Modi, the central government will pitch in with support,” said Bukhari. AAP MLA Amanatullah Khan, who is the chairman of the Delhi Waqf Board, also visited the mosque earlier this month, and promised to pitch in with help. Bukhari said while all help was welcome, the scope of work required at the mosque could only be taken up the ASI since the Waqf board might not have sufficient funds and expertise required for repairs. Historian and author Swapna Liddle said that the conservation of Jama Masjid needed to be a priority for all stakeholders since it was not always possible to reverse the damage sustained. “The priority should be to stop the mosque from deteriorating since damage can often be irreversible. If the stones fall down and collapse, the damage cannot be turned back. The first response should be to avoid such situations through comprehensive conservation support,” said Liddle.DN Dimri, former ASI joint director-general, said regular cement is not used for conserving monuments. Dimri said that as per the conservation principle, materials not used in the making of the monument are not used for conservation work. “As per the ASI’s conservation manual, cement is not allowed for conservation because these monuments demonstrate the use of lime mortar and not cement. The ASI has carried out repairs at Jama Masjid from time to time in the past as part of a special arrangement, but cement was never used,” said Dimri.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/jama-masjid-needs-special-care-101640422705556.html
25-12-2021||India||Harbhajan Singh says he will serve Punjab, 'maybe via politics'||Putting speculations of his joining the Congress ahead of the Punjab election immediately after he announced his retirement from cricket, Harbhajan Singh on Saturday said he will make an announcement if he joins any party. "I know politicians from every party...Will serve Punjab, maybe via politics or something else. No decision has been taken yet," Harbhajan said, as reported by news agency ANI. The speculations were triggered after Harbhajan recently met Punjab Congress chief Navjot Singh Sidhu, a picture of which was tweeted by Sidhu. "Picture loaded with possibilities...With Bhajji the shining star," Sidhu had written.A few days before Sidhu and Harbhajan's meeting, it was reported that the BJP was trying to rope in Harbhajan for Punjab. Harbhajan dismissed the reports as fake news.On Friday, as he announced the end of his cricket career, he said he is not averse to joining politics but a lot of factors have to be taken into consideration before he makes a decision. "Frankly speaking, I don't know what's in store for me. I just want a couple of days to figure out in which direction I would like to move. Yes, I want to give back to society," Harbhajan told PTI in an interview. "If I join politics, how and in what form, I need to figure those things out as main aim is to help people if I at all take the plunge," he added.In the 2019 Lok Sabha election, the BJP was reportedly in talks with Harbhajan to field him from the Amritsar Lok Sabha constituency. At that time, the cricketer confirmed the talks and said he was not sure whether it was the right time for him to join politics.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/harbhajan-singh-says-he-will-serve-punjab-maybe-via-politics-101640421938080.html
25-12-2021||India||Ludhiana blast accused assembled bomb in court washroom: Punjab police chief||Two days after a bomb went off inside a district court complex in Punjab's Ludhiana, state police chief Siddharth Chattopadhyay on Saturday laid out the findings from the preliminary probe into the case. Addressing a press conference, the director general of police (DGP) said initial investigations have confirmed that dismissed former cop Gagandeep Singh, who was suspected to be the attacker, was indeed the one who carried explosives inside the court complex.Also Read | Bomber at Ludhiana district courts complex was former Punjab policeman: Probe“Gagandeep most probably met some people, including Khalistani elements and drug smugglers, while he was jailed. He had very good technical skills and initial inquiry reveals that he went inside the washroom to assemble the bomb,” Chattopadhyay said. “We have strong leads that Pakistan-based, pro-Khalistani narco-terrorists are behind the blast,” he also said.Singh, who was killed in Thursday's blast which also resulted in injuries to six others, was dismissed from service in 2019 in connection with a drugs case and spent two years in jail. He was released in September this year. The blast took place near the washroom on the second floor of the court complex.The police chief also said Singh's possible motive was to create fear as the hearing in his drugs case was scheduled to take place the next day.Also Read | Pro-Khalistani radicals in Pak, Germany behind Ludhiana court blastThe December 23 blast took place at a time when Punjab is gearing up for the assembly elections which are most likely to be held in February-March. It also came in the backdrop of last week's twin lynchings in the border state, one each in Amritsar's Golden Temple and Kapurthala, over alleged desecration of the Guru Granth Sahib and a Sikh flag, respectively.Chief minister Charanjit Singh Channi said on Friday there was no evidence of any sacrilege in the Kapurthala incident. One person, the caretaker of the gurdwara where the killing took place, has been arrested on charges of murder.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/ludhiana-blast-accused-assembled-bomb-in-court-washroom-punjab-police-chief-101640417173144.html
25-12-2021||India||BJP launches special micro-donation campaign on Atal Bihari Vajpayee's birth anniversary||The Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) on Saturday launched a special micro-donation campaign to seek people’s support. The campaign will run from December 25 (birth anniversary of Atal Bihar Vajpayee) to February 11 – the death anniversary of Deen Dayal Upadhyay.Announcing the launch of the campaign, BJP chief Jagat Prakash Nadda said it will be a token of people’s support to the party’s ‘Nation First’ approach.“During this movement, we have a golden opportunity to connect with the people on the various ways in which we are fulfilling the vision of these two great leaders under the leadership of Prime Minister Modi,” Nadda said in a statement.Our Karyakartas will connect with millions of people through this micro-donation campaign.'Donation' module in the NaMo App will be the medium through which we will collect these donations. I seek the blessings of people to strengthen the world's largest nationalist movement. pic.twitter.com/xbiwqpiP9yThe contribution can be made starting ₹5 till ₹1,000 (micro-donations), a release from Nadda’s office said. The option to donate will be available in the ‘NaMo Exclusive’ section of the NaMo app.The BJP chief shared a screeshot of the contribution made by him on Twitter. “I seek the blessings of people to strengthen the world's largest nationalist movement,” he said in the accompanying tweet.The release also listed three main reasons for starting the campaign: The BJP’s vision of ‘Nation First’, its cadre which the party said symbolises selfless service and commitment to the nation and the kind of leaders it has produced, who helped take India to new heights of development.The BJP release also said that workers who will connect with the maximum number of people to make micro-donations will be recognised at all levels – district, state and national – in appropriate manner.Soon after the announcement, Union home minister and former BJP chief Amit Shah also shared the screenshot of donation made under the new campaign on Twitter.Any donation to the @BJP4India is a contribution towards a stronger #NewIndia.You can contribute through the 'Donation' module of the NaMo App.I have done my part and appeal to all our supporters and karyakartas to donate and inspire others for the same. pic.twitter.com/T8h1lI26MrThe contribution can be made starting ₹5 till ₹1,000 (micro-donations), a release from Nadda’s office said. The option to donate will be available in the ‘NaMo Exclusive’ section of the NaMo app.The BJP chief shared a screeshot of the contribution made by him on Twitter. “I seek the blessings of people to strengthen the world's largest nationalist movement,” he said in the accompanying tweet.The release also listed three main reasons for starting the campaign: The BJP’s vision of ‘Nation First’, its cadre which the party said symbolises selfless service and commitment to the nation and the kind of leaders it has produced, who helped take India to new heights of development.The BJP release also said that workers who will connect with the maximum number of people to make micro-donations will be recognised at all levels – district, state and national – in appropriate manner.Soon after the announcement, Union home minister and former BJP chief Amit Shah also shared the screenshot of donation made under the new campaign.|#+|“Any donation to the @BJP4India is a contribution towards a stronger #NewIndia. You can contribute through the 'Donation' module of the NaMo App. I have done my part and appeal to all our supporters and karyakartas to donate and inspire others for the same,” Shah said in a tweet.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/bjp-launches-special-micro-donation-campaign-on-vajpayee-s-birth-anniversary-101640420158496.html
25-12-2021||India||Gurpurab celebrations: With 'Ek Bharat' pitch, PM Modi recalls valour of Sikh gurus||Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Saturday addressed the Gurpurab celebrations at Gurudwara Lakhpat Sahib in Gujarat and called for a united India "from Kashmir to Kanyakumari". He also listed the contributions of Sikh Gurus, which he said is not just limited to society and spirituality."If our nation, the contemplation of the nation, the faith and integrity of the nation is safe today, at its core is the great austerity of the Sikh Gurus," PM Modi said in his virtual address."Guru Tegh Bahadur's valour and his sacrifice against Aurangzeb teaches us how the country fights against terror and religious fanaticism. Similarly, the life of the tenth Guru, Guru Gobind Singh Sahib is also a living example of tenacity and sacrifice at every step," said PM Modi.Emphasising on the "Ek Bharat, Shreshtha Bharat" mantra, the Prime Minister said, "From Kashmir to Kanyakumari, from Kutch to Kohima, the whole country is dreaming together, striving for their accomplishment together. Today, the goal of the country is the revival of a new and capable India," he further said.He also lauded the contributions made by gurdwaras during the difficult corona time. "The way our gurdwaras took up the responsibility of service in the difficult times of Corona, it is a symbol of Guru Saheb's grace and his ideals," said PM Modi.He also said that access to Kartarpur Gurdwara was made possible by the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP)-led government."The countrymen had been wishing for easy access to Kartarpur Sahib for decades. In 2019, it was our government that completed its construction," he said."More recently, we have been successful in bringing the swaroops of the respected Guru Granth Sahib from Afghanistan to India. What can be a greater experience of Guru's grace than this?" said PM Modi."When I went to the US a few months ago, it returned more than 150 historical objects to India, which were taken from here. There is also a peshkabja or small sword, on which the name of Guru Hargobind ji is written in Persian. Our own government also got the good fortune to bring it back," he added.The Prime Minister also talked about the historical importance of Gurdwara Lakhpat Sahib."Gurdwara Lakhpat Sahib has been a witness to every movement of time. Today, as I connect with this holy place, I am reminded of how Lakhpat Sahib has seen storms in the past," said PM Modi.The gurdwara had suffered damages during the 2001 earthquake."Once upon a time, this place was a major centre for trade to other countries. After the 2001 earthquake, I had the privilege of serving this holy place by Guru's grace. I remember, that at that time, artisans from different parts of the country preserved the original glory of this place," he further said."Guruvani was inscribed on the walls here with the ancient writing style. This project was honoured by UNESCO," said the Prime Minister.Every year, from December 23 to December 25, Sikh Sangat of Gujarat celebrate the Gurpurab of Guru Nanak Dev Ji at Gurudwara Lakhpat Sahib.Guru Nanak Dev ji had stayed at Lakhpat during the course of his travels. Gurudwara Lakhpat Sahib has his relics including wooden footwear and palki (cradle) as well as manuscripts and markings scripts of Gurmukhi.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/with-ek-bharat-pitch-pm-modi-recalls-valour-of-sikh-gurus-101640418229436.html
25-12-2021||India||On repealed farm laws, Union minister Tomar talks about govt's future plans||The three farms laws, which were repealed by the Centre last month in the face of farmer protests against them, could be brought back in the future, Union agriculture minister Narendra Singh Tomar has hinted.Speaking at the inauguration of the agricultural industry exhibition, Agrovision, Maharashtra Nagpur, Narendra Singh Tomar on Friday said the government was not dejected even though the agriculture reform laws had to be repealed."We brought agriculture amendment laws. But some people did not like these laws which were a big reform brought about 70 years after Independence under Prime Minister Narendra Modi's leadership," Tomar said.Also read | The repeal of farm laws"But the government is not disappointed. We moved a step back and we will move forward again because farmers are India's backbone. And if the backbone is strengthened the country will definitely get strong,” he added.Days after Prime Minister Narendra Modi in a surprise announcement on November 19 said his government would withdraw the three laws, both Houses of Parliament passed the Farm Laws Repeal Bill, 2021, on November 29 by voice vote to annul the laws enacted in September 2020 to liberalise the trade of farm produce.Before that, Tomar and other Union ministers talked to the protesting farmers and held several meetings to work a way out as thousands of farmers mainly from poll-bound from Punjab and Uttar Pradesh camped on the Delhi borders since November last year.According to the agitating farmers, who did not budge from their demands, the three farm laws would leave them at the mercy of large corporate firms even though the Centre tried to assure them.Also read | Farm laws repealed: First major victory of farmers’ protest, says SKMThe Union minister also said at the event the agriculture sector needs investment in a big way. Tomar said private investment flowed into other areas which created jobs and the contribution of these industries in the GDP rose."The agriculture sector, despite being so big, did not receive this kind of opportunity. Today this sector receives most of the investment through government programmes... Through government purchase (of farm produce), subsidy on fertilisers, seeds and pesticides and other policies," he said.Also read | Repeal of farm laws sans discussion shows govt is scared: Rahul GandhiHe also said the present investment in the sector benefits the traders and not farmers. "You don't find warehouses and cold storages in villages… Hence prime minister Modi has announced infrastructure investment of ₹1 lakh crore as well as investment in allied sectors like animal husbandry, food processing, fisheries, herbal farming, altogether adding up to ₹1.5 lakh crore," he said."There is still a lack of private investment in the agriculture sector," Tomar added.(With agency inputs)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/on-repealed-farm-laws-union-minister-tomar-talks-about-govt-s-future-plans-101640417199967.html
25-12-2021||India||Omicron alert: Centre to send multi-disciplinary teams to 10 states||In view of rising concerns over the highly transmissible Omicron variant of the coronavirus, the Centre has decided to send special multi-disciplinary teams to 10 states and Union territories, which are either reporting a high number of infections from the new strain or have a low pace of the vaccination against coronavirus disease (Covid-19).“In view of rapid surge in cases and deaths because of Covid-19, as reported by various news channels, the state governments, and noted in internal reviews, it has been seen that the number of Omicron cases have emerged in some states,” the Union ministry of health and family welfare said in a letter, tweeted by the ANI news agency.The 10 states where the central multidisciplinary teams are to be deployed are Kerala, Maharashtra, Tamil Nadu, West Bengal, Mizoram, Karnataka, Bihar, Uttar Pradesh, Jharkhand, and Punjab.“It has also been observed that the pace of Covid-19 vaccination in these states is less than the national average,” it added. “In wake of this situation, a decision has been taken to deploy multi-disciplinary central teams to 10 identified states, some of which are either reporting an increasing number of Omicron and Covid-19 cases or slow vaccination pace (list enclosed), to aid the efforts of the state and district administration for management of Covid-19.”The central teams shall be stationed in the allotted states for a period of three to five days and will work along with state health authorities, read the health ministry letter.As per the ministry, these teams will specifically look at areas of contact tracing, including surveillance, containment operations, and Covid-19 testing, including the sending of adequate samples from clusters to the INSACOG network for genome sequencing.The teams will also be responsible for the enforcement of Covid-appropriate behaviour, availability of hospital beds, sufficient logistics including ambulances, ventilators, medical oxygen, etc, and Covid-19 vaccination progress in the states.The state-level central teams will assess the situation, suggest remedial actions, and submit a report every evening by 7pm on the public health activities being undertaken to both the central and state government, the memorandum added.India on Saturday reported 415 cases of the Omicron variant—up from 358 from Friday—even as several states enforced several restrictions to stop its spread. Of these 415 cases found across 17 states and Union territories, 115 have already recovered.Maharashtra has recorded a maximum of 108 Omicron cases, followed by Delhi at 79, Gujarat 43, Telangana 38, Kerala 37, Tamil Nadu 34, and Karnataka 31.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/omicron-alert-centre-to-send-multi-disciplinary-teams-to-10-states-101640415387360.html
25-12-2021||India||News updates from Hindustan Times: Delhi's AQI improves to 'very poor' category, and all the latest news||Here are today’s top news, analysis and opinion. Know all about the latest news and other news updates from Hindustan Times.The pollution level in national capital Delhi improved marginally on Christmas Day (December 25), but still remained in ‘very poor’ category. Delhi’s air quality has been oscillating between ‘very poor’ and ‘severe’ over the last few weeks due to a combination of factors. Read moreA day after he met Rahul Gandhi in Delhi, senior Congress leader Harish Rawat on Saturday equated his recent actions with cricket, saying that whatever he said was to win the ‘cricket match.’ Read moreHarbhajan Singh announced his retirement from all formats of the game on Friday, drawing curtains to a 23-year-long career. In a stellar international career that spanned from 1998 to 2016, Harbhajan lifted the 2007 T20 World Cup and the 2011 ODI World Cup with the side, and played a major role in many important victories across all formats. Read moreKatrina Kaif is celebrating her first Christmas after marrying actor Vicky Kaushal. The actor has now teased ‘new beginnings' by announcing her next film, Merry Christmas. Read moreThe world is celebrating the joyous festival of Christmas today, on December 25. As the festive cheer spreads all around us, many are taking to their social media accounts to mark the beginning of the holiday season with some joyous posts. Our favourite celebrities also marked the occasion by sharing wishes on their Instagram accounts. Read moreLeaders paid tribute to former PM Atal Bihari Vajpayee on his birth anniversary. President Ram Nath Kovind paid floral tribute at 'Sadaiv Atal' Samadhi in the national capital. Watch more||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/news-updates-from-hindustan-times-delhi-s-aqi-improves-to-very-poor-category-and-all-the-latest-news-101640415679052.html
25-12-2021||India||Day after meeting Rahul Gandhi, Harish Rawat explains recent actions with cricket analogy||A day after he met Rahul Gandhi in Delhi, senior Congress leader Harish Rawat on Saturday equated his recent actions with cricket, saying that whatever he said was to win the ‘cricket match.’Also Read | Harish Rawat's ‘time to rest’ tweet sparks buzz ahead of Uttarakhand polls“Sometimes a course correction is necessary to formulate a winning strategy for the elections. One thing we all should understand is that the AICC (All India Congress Committee) the boss, just like the BCCI (Board of Control for Cricket in India). The election in-charges are like a coach. But the playing captain, too, is important. So, there should be a relation of confidence and understanding among the three,” the former Uttarakhand chief minister told news agency ANI. #WATCH | Delhi:"...Some course correction is important to win upcoming elections...sometimes expressing pain is also beneficial for the party...," Congress leader Harish Rawat pic.twitter.com/ahxfSlaPl2If you play for the cross-purpose, then the match will be lost, the veteran party leader further said. “Therefore, whatever I said was so that we win the match. If I would have said it normally, then people would have accused me of political adjustments. So, expressing pain often benefits the party, and I think it will benefit the party,” Rawat elaborated.Also Read | Harish Rawat’s tweets meant to ensure his clout within Congress, says BJP leaderThe senior politician on Wednesday posted a series of cryptic tweets, with the developments being deciphered in political circles as his ‘unhappiness’ with the grand old party. His tweets came nearly two months after he was replaced as the Congress' in-charge for Punjab by Harish Chaudhary.Also Read | I will lead, says Uttarakhand’s Harish Rawat after 4-hour Congress meetingAs the party's in-charge for the border state, Rawat oversaw the change of guard from Captain Amarinder Singh to Charanjit Singh Channi, as well as the appointment of Navjot Singh Sidhu as the Pradesh Congress Committee (PCC) chief. Singh, who has since formed a political outfit of his own, and Sidhu engaged in a bitter, long-drawn feud.Also Read | You reap what you sow…: Amarinder Singh has a message for Harish RawatUttarakhand and Punjab are both poll-bound states. While the former has a Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) government, the Congress is in power in the latter.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/day-after-meeting-rahul-gandhi-harish-rawat-explains-recent-actions-with-cricket-analogy-101640412700700.html
25-12-2021||India||Atal Bihari Vajpayee the only leader after Nehru…: Sanjay Raut praises BJP leader on birth anniversary||Atal Bihari Vajpayee was the only leader after Jawaharlal Nehru who was respected by people across the country, Shiv Sena leader Sanjay Raut on Saturday said o Saturday as tributes poured in for the veteran Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) leader on his birth anniversary."Vajpayee was the only second leader in India, who was appreciated across the country after Jawaharlal Nehru. May it be Nagaland or Puducherry, there were people who respected Vajpayee," Sanjay Raut said while speaking to reporters, according to news agency PTI."Atal Bihari Vajpayee played a pivotal role in cementing the Shiv Sena-BJP alliance. 'Sabka Saath, Sabka Vikas' slogan truly suits him,” the Shiv Sena lawmaker also said.Also watch | Atal Bihari Vajpayee birth anniversary: Prez Kovind, PM Modi pay floral tribute 
25-12-2021||India||2 LeT terrorists gunned down in J&K's Shopian, search operation underway||Two Lashkar-e-Toiba (LeT) terrorists were gunned down on Saturday by joint teams of the Indian Army and the Jammu and Kashmir (J&K) police in an encounter in the Shopian district of the Union territory, officials said.Officials said the encounter broke out in the early hours in the Chowgam area of Shopian.“Two Lashkar-e-Taiba terrorists neutralised in the encounter that broke out between security forces and terrorists in the Chowgam area of Shopian,” Vijay Kumar, the inspector-general of the Kashmir Police, said. “One terrorist was involved in grenade firing and killing of civilians. Another terrorist had joined recently.”A police official told the PTI news agency the security forces launched a cordon-and-search operation in Chowgam in south Kashmir earlier in the day after receiving inputs about the presence of terrorists in the area.The operation turned into an encounter when the terrorists opened fire on the security personnel triggering a retaliation, the official said.On Friday, security forces gunned down a Hizbul Mujahideen terrorist, who was involved in the killings of a policeman, civilians and others in Kashmir's Anantnag district. The security forces also arrested two LeT terrorist associates at Budgam in Jammu and Kashmir.The killed terrorist was involved in a number of terror crimes including the killing of police inspector Mohammad Ashraf Bhat of Chandpora Kanelwan Anantnag, three workers of the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) in YK-Pora Kulgam, a BJP sarpanch and his wife at Lal Chowk in Anantnag.He was also involved in an attack on District Development Council (DDC) candidate Anees ul Islam Ganie at Sagam Kokernag and in snatching weapons from a constable at Shamispora crossing in the Khudwani area of Kulgam.In another operation, the Budgam Police, along with the army’s 50 Rashtriya Rifles and 181 Central Reserve Police Force (CRPF), arrested two terror associates linked with the proscribed terror outfit LeT from Chadoora area of Budgam district.During preliminary investigation, it surfaced that arrested terrorist associates have been in touch with LeT commanders and were involved in providing logistics support to terrorists including providing shelter, transportation of arms and ammunition in the areas of Mochwa, Kralpora, Chattergam, Sathsoo, Nowgam, Chadoora and other areas of the district.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/2-terrorists-gunned-down-in-j-k-s-shopian-identification-underway-101640409033338.html
25-12-2021||India||Omicron cases in India rise to 415, 115 recovered, says Union health ministry||India on Saturday reported 415 cases of the highly transmissible Omicron variant of the coronavirus—up from 358 from Friday—even as several states clamped restrictions to stanch its spread, according to the Union ministry of health and family welfare.The health ministry also said out of the 415 Omicron cases found across 17 states and Union territories, 115 have already recovered from the coronavirus disease (Covid-19).Maharashtra has recorded a maximum of 108 Omicron cases, followed by Delhi at 79, Gujarat 43, Telangana 38, Kerala 37, Tamil Nadu 34 and Karnataka 31.Also read | The coronavirus pandemic is far from overOn Friday, the ministry said it found that out of the 183 of the 358 known Omicron variant Covid-19 cases 70 per cent of the infected are asymptomatic and the rest have mild symptoms.According to the analysis, little more than 90 per cent of the cases for whom vaccination status was known are fully vaccinated against Covid-19 and 61 per cent were in men and 39 per cent in women.Also watch | Multiple states reimpose restrictions as Omicron cases surge on X-mas weekend 
25-12-2021||India||Pro-Khalistani radicals in Pak, Germany behind Ludhiana court blast||Investigations conducted by security agencies and the Punjab police into the Ludhiana session court blast on Thursday reveal a cross border conspiracy with the involvement of a Germany based pro-Khalistan terrorist and a Pakistan based radical with the intention of destabilising the poll-bound state and helping the fissiparous forces.According to top security officials in the know of the developments, Jaswinder Singh Multani, a Germany based pro-Khalistan terrorist, has played a crucial role in the sessions court blast on December 23. A native of village Mansoorpur in Hoshiarpur district of Punjab, Multani has been supplying weapons and explosives in India by using his network of Pakistan based smugglers to carry out terror strikes on the Indian mainland. Intelligence inputs indicate that the Pakistani ISI specifically tasked Multani along with Pakistan based ‘Category A’ wanted gangster cum Khalistani radical, Harvinder Singh @ Rinda Sandhu, to carry out terror attacks to destabilise Punjab in the run-up to the assembly elections.According to available inputs, Multani has been closely associated with the banned outfit Sikhs For Justice (SFJ) for promoting separatist activities and is said to be in constant touch with US-based SFJ president Avtar Singh Pannu and Harmeet Singh @ Harpreet @ Rana, who are pursuing separatist agenda of Khalistan through Sikh Referendum 2020. Multani is understood to be assisting the SFJ’s separatist campaign in Germany and recently come to notice of the law enforcement agencies for arranging consignments of weapons, explosives, hand grenades and ammunition from Pakistan, with the help of his Pakistan-based operatives cum arm smugglers. Multani is said to be planning to carry out terrorist activities in Punjab and other parts of India using explosives smuggled from across the border. It is learnt that Multani even targeted a key farmer leader Balbir Singh Rajewal, president of BKU-Rajewal, for the latter’s speech condemning the Khalistani forces’ attempt to infiltrate and derail the protest over farm laws. The Punjab police busted the involved terror module and recovered 8 country-made pistols along with 8 magazines and 7 cartridges from the module members.In August 2021, the Punjab police arrested Saroop Singh of Tarn Taran district, who was radicalised by Multani and had sent two high explosive hand grenades to him for creating mayhem in the district town. The involvement of Pakistan based Harvinder Sandhu aka Rinda was revealed during the June 2021 interrogation of a so-called Khalistan supporter Jagjit Singh, who was caught with 48 pistols, 99 magazines and 200 cartridges in the Khemkaran-Ajnala sector by Punjab Police. A hardcore criminal, Rinda, who originally hailed from Taran Taran, shifted to Nanded Sahib in Maharashtra and then moved to Pakistan. He was sentenced to life imprisonment in September 2011 for the murder of a youth in Tarn Taran in 2008. In January 2014, he had attacked the officials of Patiala Central Jail. On April 8, 2016, he had fired eight bullets at the Students Organisation of India (SOI) president at the Student Centre in Punjab University, Chandigarh. He is also accused of killing Hoshiarpur sarpanch Satnam Singh outside a gurdwara in Sector 38 (west) Chandigarh in April 2017. It was a case of contract killing hired by a Hoshiarpur-based transporter to murder the sarpanch.In 2018, gangster Dilpreet Singh Dhahan alias Baba was arrested for a shooting attempt at Punjabi singer Parmish Verma. During police interrogation, Baba disclosed that Rinda, his associate, was in touch with the Pakistan based terrorist and Babbar Khalsa International (BKI) chief Wadhawa Singh Babbar.
25-12-2021||India||News updates from Hindustan Times: Kolkata Metro to run 10 more services from today, and all the latest news||Here are today’s top news, analysis and opinion. Know all about the latest news and other news updates from Hindustan Times.Beginning December 25 – Christmas Day – the Kolkata Metro will be running ten additional services every Saturday. With this, as many as 230 daily services—115 up and 115 down services—will be provided to commuters instead of the current 220, reports have said. Read morePrime Minister Narendra Modi on Saturday remembered former PM Atal Bihari Vajpayee on the latter's 97th birth anniversary. “Remembering Atal Ji on his Jayanti. We are inspired by his rich service to the nation. Read moreTeam India will return to action in Tests on December 26 when the side takes on South Africa in a three-match series. The series marks the return of most of the first-choice Test players who were either injured or rested for the recently-concluded home series against New Zealand. Read morePriyanka Chopra, who plays the adult version of the exile program Sati in The Matrix Resurrections, defended the length of her role in the film. She said that thinking of characters only in terms of lead roles is ‘myopic’ vision. Read moreActor Ankita Lokhande tied the knot with Vicky Jain in a grand wedding ceremony, attended by their family and friends, a few weeks ago. The pictures from their marriage ceremonies won hearts all over the internet. Read moreAmid rising cases of Omicron, Maharashtra and Uttar Pradesh were among several states which have imposed tougher restrictions ahead of Christmas and New Year celebrations. Watch more||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/news-updates-from-hindustan-times-kolkata-metro-to-run-10-more-services-from-today-and-all-the-latest-news-101640401227856.html
25-12-2021||India||PM Modi extends Christmas greetings, recalls life and teachings of Jesus||Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Saturday extended his greetings to the nation on the occasion of Christmas and recalled the life and teachings of Jesus Christ. Pointing out that the religious leader's preachings place the topmost emphasis on “service, kindness, and humility”, the Prime Minister wished his fellow Indians a healthy and prosperous life.“Christmas greetings to everyone! We recall the life and noble teachings of Jesus Christ, which placed topmost emphasis on service, kindness, and humility,” tweeted Prime Minister Modi. “May everyone be healthy and prosperous. May there be harmony all around.”Christmas is celebrated every year on December 25 and marks the birth of Jesus Christ. It is observed by the Christian community across the globe by singing carols and exchanging gifts, as the festival aims to spread the message of peace and prosperity.This year, too, Christmas is being widely celebrated across the country with much fervour, in accordance with the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) guidelines.Midnight mass was held at several churches in Goa, Maharashtra, Himachal Pradesh, Puducherry, West Bengal, and Karnataka following the Covid-19 protocols, reported ANI news agency.Only a limited number of people were allowed to attend the mass celebrations to curb the transmission of Covid-19 infection.The Christmas and holiday season in India is one to watch, especially amid rising concerns over the highly transmissible Omicron strain of SARS-CoV-2 and experts fearing that public places may turn into coronavirus disease (Covid-19) hotspots.The Omicron variant has got medical experts and public health professionals across the world concerned over aspects such as its transmissibility, immune system evasion, and vaccine resistance, despite initial reports indicating that the variant causes a less severe disease than previous strains.Experts have already warned that the late November to early January period—the holidays— will be an especially crucial time for this new phase of the coronavirus pandemic driven by Omicron, and any unwary activity during the festive season might lead to a revamped wave of the infectious disease.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/pm-modi-extends-christmas-greetings-recalls-the-life-and-teachings-of-jesus-christ-101640399283509.html
25-12-2021||India||‘Inspired by his rich service…’: PM Modi, others pay tribute to Atal Bihari Vajpayee on birth anniversary||Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Saturday remembered former PM Atal Bihari Vajpayee on the latter's 97th birth anniversary. “Remembering Atal Ji on his Jayanti. We are inspired by his rich service to the nation. He devoted his life towards making India strong and developed. His development initiatives positively impacted millions of Indians,” tweeted PM Modi on one of his predecessors in the nation's top office. आदरणीय अटल जी को उनकी जयंती पर कोटि-कोटि नमन।Remembering Atal Ji on his Jayanti. We are inspired by his rich service to the nation. He devoted his life towards making India strong and developed. His development initiatives positively impacted millions of Indians.Union home minister Amit Shah, too, paid tribute to the veteran leader, as he greeted the country on Good Governance Day. “As Prime Minister, Atal Ji, through various visionary decisions, laid the foundation of a strong India. He also turned into reality, his vision of good governance in the country,” a rough translation of Shah's tweet, which was posted in Hindi, read. अपने प्रधानमंत्री के कार्यकाल में अटलजी ने कई दूरदर्शी निर्णय लेकर एक मजबूत भारत की नींव रखी और साथ ही देश में सुशासन की कल्पना को चरितार्थ करके दिखाया।मोदी सरकार हर वर्ष अटलजी के योगदानों का स्मरण कर बड़ी उत्साह से ‘सुशासन दिवस’ मनाती है।सभी को सुशासन दिवस की शुभकामनाएं।Since 2014, when the Modi government first came to power, Atal Bihari Vajpayee's birth anniversary has been celebrated annually as Good Governance Day.Also Read | Atal Bihari Vajpayee: Former PM's 97th birth anniversary todayMeanwhile, defence minister Rajnath Singh also posted in memory of the stalwart, describing him as a ‘great nationalist,’ ‘eminent orator,’ ‘wonderful poet,’ ‘able administrator’ and a ‘remarkable reformist.’
25-12-2021||India||'Let's adopt teachings of Christ': President Kovind greets nation on Christmas||President Ram Nath Kovind on Saturday extended his greetings to the nation on Christmas and urged people to take a resolve to build a society that is based on the values of justice and liberty.“Merry Christmas to fellow citizens, especially to our Christian brothers and sisters, in India and abroad. On this joyous occasion, let us resolve to build a society that is based on the values of justice & liberty and adopt the teachings of Jesus Christ in our lives,” Kovind said in a tweet.The President also wished the nation on Christmas Eve.Also read | Gautam Budh Nagar traffic cops to check noise levels at Christmas, New Year parties"This festival instils peace, harmony and compassion in the lives of people and also promotes unity and fraternity amongst members of the society. Jesus Christ's message of love and compassion continues to inspire the entire humanity even today," he said on Friday.Prime Minister Narendra Modi also extended greetings to people celebrating Christmas and recalled the teachings of Jesus Christ.“Christmas greetings to everyone! We recall the life and noble teachings of Jesus Christ, which placed topmost emphasis on service, kindness and humility. May everyone be healthy and prosperous. May there be harmony all around,” PM Modi posted on Twitter.Meanwhile, many states have imposed curbs to stem the spread of the Omicron variant of the coronavirus as India enters the holiday season.Christmas will be a muted affair in the Capital for the second year in a row, as most churches have directed parishioners to attend mass online on Saturday.Also read | Omicron spread: Night curfews, prohibitory orders in states as festivities startHaryana, on the other hand, has strictly banned the movement of people from 11pm to 5am from January 1. Further, gatherings of more than 200 people have been banned in public places and in other programmes amid rising concerns over the new variant.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/lets-adopt-teachings-of-christ-president-kovind-greets-nation-on-christmas-101640400044390.html
25-12-2021||India||Atal Bihari Vajpayee: Former PM's 97th birth anniversary today||The nation will on Saturday observe the 97th birth anniversary of former Prime Minister Atal Bihari Vajpayee, who was born on December 25, 1924. Since 2014, Vajpayee's birth anniversary has been celebrated annually as Good Governance Day.Also Read | On Good Governance Day, UP CM to lay foundation stone of 11 projects in Vajpayee's native villageBorn in Gwalior in present-day Madhya Pradesh, the late former Prime Minister was an eloquent speaker and prolific writer, and is known for his poems, most of which he authored in Hindi. Vajpayee, who was an active member of the Rashtriya Swayamsevak Sangh (RSS) and later, the RSS-affiliated Jana Sangh, held several important portfolios throughout his political career, including the all-important minister of external affairs.In 1980, Vajpayee co-founded the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP), along with close associate and, later, his deputy PM, Lal Krishna Advani. In 1996, he became the country's first PM from the BJP. However, his first term ended after just 16 days.Also Read | Vajpayee a symbol of peace, development and equalityThe BJP stalwart would go on to hold the post for a further two terms, from 1998-1999, and later, a full five-year stint from 1999-2004. Two major highlights of the second term were the Pokharan nuclear test in 1998, and the Kargil War in the following year.However, in 2004, the BJP suffered a defeat in that year's general elections. In the years to come, Vajpayee retired from politics and public life. In 2015, he was conferred the Bharat Ratna, India's top civilian honour.On August 16, 2018, the veteran politician breathed his last after being hospitalised that June in critical condition following a kidney infection.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/atal-bihari-vajpayee-former-pm-s-97th-birth-anniversary-today-101640396105684.html
25-12-2021||India||Vajpayee a symbol of peace, development and equality||There are innumerable anecdotes that his friends, peers, colleagues and commentators cite about former Prime Minister Bharat Ratna late Atal Behari Vajpayee. Here’s one that I often feel strikingly encapsulates the person, his politics, and his life that was pillared on a nation-first principle, focusing on modernity, progress, and equality.Speaking at a meeting of the scheduled caste community, Atal ji had said: “Na hum Manuvaadi hain, na brahmanvadi hain, ham samvidhaanvadi hain, Isilye hum Ambedakaravadi hain”. Translated, this reads: “We are neither Manuvadi, nor Brahminical. We are Constitutionalists, and, that is why we follow the principles espoused by [BR] Ambedkar”. This, in many ways, neatly sums up Atal ji’s deep and abiding belief in the principles and practice of social egalitarianism.He was a quintessential personification of a modern-day democrat, one who practised what he championed, never hesitating to take up the cudgels to fiercely protect democratic values. His imprisonment during the dark days of Emergency is an example of this attribute.Atal ji was a deeply rooted organisation man too, someone who took immense pride in his identity with his political party. To save democracy, Jan Sangh had merged with the Janata Party in 1978, a step that bubbled with enormous hope and promise. Atal ji was deeply disappointed with the failure of this political experiment, which found expression in famous poem “Rah kaunsi jaoon main (Which way shall I go)”.But, like a true statesman and powered by his strong belief in his political vision, Atal ji wrote: “Geet Naya Gata Hoon”(I sing a new song)”, a deeply motivational poem that inspired the formation of the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) in 1980, offering a political alternative which has now evolved into the world’s biggest political party.His concluding remarks at the party’s Mumbai session were laced with hope and positivity that laid down the vision inspiring millions. He said “Andhera Chhatega, Sooraj Niklega, Kamal Khilega” meaning “The darkness will cease, the sun will rise, the lotus will bloom.” This was more than a metaphorical alliteration. This offered new hope to hundreds of millions in this country who sought an alternative to the dynasty-ruled Congress, which had by then come to be characterised by ugly syndicates, corrupt practices, and arbitrary administration.Atal ji dedicated his whole life to the country. For him, India was not just a piece of geographical expanse, it was an ever-evolving organic civilisation. The love for motherland found expression in his words and poetry. He famously wrote: “Yah vandan ki bhoomi hai, abhinandan ki bhoomi hai, yah tarpan kee bhoomi hai, yah arpan kee bhoomi hai | iska kankad-kankad shankar, isaka bindu-bindu gangaajal hai. ham jiyenge to iske liye, marenge to iske liye” Or, “this is the land of worship, this is the land of greetings, this is the land of offerings. Its pebbles symbolise Lord Shankar, Gangajal can be found in every point. We shall live and die for this motherland.”Atal ji symbolised development. The Golden Quadrilateral, the Pradhan Mantril Gram Sadak Yojana, and other such iconic projects, were conceptualised and executed during his tenure.Vajpayee’s unwavering and persistent focus on the nation’s territorial integrity shaped India’s foreign policy. He was always willing to give peace a chance, but not at cost of the nation’s security and territorial integrity, which to him was non-negotiable. His politics had deep philosophical underpinnings. He had immense faith in the power of society. He kept the nation’s interest paramount and rose above sectarian and political differences to solve complex problems. He was unafraid of taking a principled stand. On his birth anniversary today, let us rededicate ourselves to his vision to make India a self-reliant, safe, modern and progressive country.(Shiv Prakash is National Joint Secretary, Organisation, BJP. The views are personal)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/vajpayee-a-symbol-of-peace-development-and-equality-101640386240671.html
25-12-2021||India||IRCTC's third Rampath Yatra Express to be flagged off today||IRCTC's third Rampath Yatra Express train will begin its run on Saturday, connecting Gujarat's Ahmedabad with the temple town of Ayodhya in Uttar Pradesh, via Madhya Pradesh. The journey will commence from Sabarmati Junction railway station in Ahmedabad and conclude in Ayodhya on Sunday, via Ratlam and Ujjain in the central state.According to Krishna Kumar, regional manager of the Indian Railway Catering and Tourism Corporation (IRCTC), the train has 640 seats, with 320 each in AC-3 tier and sleeper class coaches. Detailing the journey further, Kumar added, “The overall journey will take seven night and eight days. IRCTC will make all the arrangements for food, accommodation of passengers etc. For this, ₹12,600 will be charged for AC-3 tier and ₹7560 for sleeper coaches via online booking. From December 27, devotees will be taken by road to Nandigram, Varanasi, Prayagraj and Chitrakoot.”Like Ayodhya, the four places are associated with Lord Ram. These, too, are in Uttar Pradesh.Singh, meanwhile, further informed that both doses of a Covid-19 vaccine are not mandatory for the travel, though he said that necessary medical arrangements, including isolation wards, have been made in the train itself.The first Rampath Yatra Express was flagged off in February this year, from Madhya Pradesh's Indore. The second, from Maharashtra's Pune, was flagged off on November 27. Both trains connected the respective cities with Ayodhya.IRCTC launched the Rampath Yatra Express after the success of the Ramayana Express. The initiative aims to promote pilgrimage tourism.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/irctcs-third-rampath-yatra-express-to-be-flagged-off-today-101640392516876.html
25-12-2021||India||‘Obscene dance’: Priests call for ban on Sunny Leone's ‘Madhuban mein Radhika naache’||Priests in Uttar Pradesh’s Mathura have demanded a ban on Sunny Leone’s latest video album, accusing the Bollywood actor of hurting their religious sentiments by performing an “obscene” dance on the iconic song “Madhuban mein Radhika nache”.The music video Madhuban was released by Saregama Music on Wednesday and features Sunny Leone in the party number sung by Kanika Kapoor and Arindam Chakraborty. The song was originally sung by Mohammed Rafi for the 1960 film Kohinoor.“We will go to court if the government does not act against the actress and ban her video album,” Sant Naval Giri Maharaj of Vrindaban has said, according to news agency PTI.Also read | Sunny says journalists didn’t want to interview her initially: ‘What am I?’The seer said she should not be allowed to remain in India unless she withdraws the scene and tenders a public apology.The news agency also reported that Akhil Bhartiya Tirth Purohit Mahasabha’s national president Mahesh Pathak has said Sunny Leone has maligned the prestige of Brijbhumi by presenting the song in a “derogatory manner”.Several others have also criticised the song for hurting Hindu sentiments over the “sensual" moves by the actor in the music video.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/priests-call-for-ban-on-sunny-leone-s-madhuban-mein-radhika-naache-101640393140665.html
25-12-2021||India||Omicron spread: Night curfews, prohibitory orders in states as festivities start||Maharashtra and Uttar Pradesh were among several states which have imposed tougher restrictions ahead of Christmas and New Year celebrations amid a spike in cases of the fast-spreading Omicron variant of the coronavirus as India’s tally touched 358.Maharashtra has the most number of Omicron cases at 88, with Delhi (67) close on its heels followed by Telangana (38) and Tamil Nadu (34), according to the latest government data.Maharashtra banned the assembly of more than five people in public places between 9pm and 6am and Uttar Pradesh (UP) and Haryana have imposed a night curfew— 11pm to 5am—from Saturday.Also watch: Multiple states reimpose restrictions as Omicron cases surge on X-mas weekend 
25-12-2021||India||PM Modi to address Gurpurab celebrations at Gujarat's Gurudwara Lakhpat Sahib today||Prime Minister Narendra Modi will on Saturday address the Gurpurab celebrations of Guru Nanak, taking place at Gurudwara Lakhpat Sahib, in Kutch, in his home state of Gujarat, the Prime Minister's Office (PMO) informed. The Prime Minister's address, said his office, will begin at around 12:30pm, and will take place via video conferencing.Providing further details, the PMO said that every year, from December 23 to 25, the Sikh Sangat of Gujarat congregate at Gurudwara Lakhpat Sahib to celebrate Gurpurab, the birth anniversary of Guru Nanak, who founded Sikhism, and was the first of the community's 10 Gurus. “Guru Nanak Dev Ji stayed here during the course of his travels. Lakhpat Sahib has his relics including wooden footwear and cradle, as well as manuscripts and marking scripts of Gurmukhi," the office noted in its statement.The shrine suffered damages during the 2001 earthquake, the PMO said further, adding that as the then chief minister of Gujarat, PM Modi took urgent efforts to repair the damages.“This showed the deep reverence of the Prime Minister for the faith, as also reflected in multiple recent endeavours, including the celebrations of 550th Parkash Purab of Guru Nanak Dev Ji, 350th Parkash Purab of Guru Gobind Singh Ji, and 400th Parkash Purab of Guru Tegh Bahadur ji,” the release stated.This year, the festival of Gurpurab fell on November 19.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/pm-modi-to-address-gurpurab-celebrations-at-gujarat-s-gurudwara-lakhpat-sahib-today-101640389567575.html
25-12-2021||NA||Breaking News: Karnataka reports 7 new Omicron cases, state's tally rises to 38||Welcome to hindustantimes.com live updates platform where you can find breaking news from India and across the world. Find fast updates about the latest news as it breaks.Follow all the updates here:Karnataka reports 7 new Omicron cases, state's tally rises to 385) 21 yr male, Bengaluru (Arrived from UK)6) 62 yr male, Bengaluru (Travelled from Delhi)7) 15 yr old, Bengaluru (Travelled from USA)All primary and secondary contacts have been tracked, traced and tested.#KarnatakaFightsCoronaSeven new cases of Omicron Covid-19 variant have been confirmed in Karnataka, state health minister Dr K Sudhakar said on Saturday. The patients range between 15 and 76 year olds. The state's Omicron tally has now risen to 38.India to begin 'precaution dose' for healthcare, frontline workers from Jan 10: PM ModiFrom January 10 onwards, India will start inoculating ‘precaution dose’ to healthcare and frontline workers, PM Narendra Modi said during his address to the nation.India to start Covid vaccination for people aged 15-18 from Jan 3: PMVaccination against Covid-19 for children aged 15-18 to start in India from January 3, 2022 onwards, says PM Modi during address to the nation.Over 61% of India's adult population got both doses of Covid vaccine: PM ModiPM Modi said over 61% of India's adult population has received both doses of the Covid-19 vaccine, while nearly 90% of the adult population has got a single dose of the vaccine shots.PM urges people not to panic, but take precautions as Omicron cases rise in countryPM Narendra Modi urges people not to panic, but take precautions as Omicron cases rise in country.PM Modi to address the nation shortlyIn about 15 minutes, PM @narendramodi will address the nation.Prime Minister Narendra Modi will address the nation in about 15 minutes, a statement by PMO India read.Encounter breaks outs in Srigufwara area of Anantnag in J&K: Police#Encounter has started at K. Kalan, Srigufwara area of #Anantnag. Police and security forces are on the job. Further details shall follow. @JmuKmrPoliceYet another encounter has broken out in Jammu and Kashmir, with the latest one being in the Srigufwara area of Anantnag district, polie tweeted. “Police and security forces are on the job. Further details shall follow,” the tweet added.Bharat Biotech gets DCGI nod for emergency use of its Covid vaccine for kids aged 12-18The Drugs Controller of India (DCGI) has given its nod to Bharat Biotech for emergency use of its Covid-19 vaccine for children aged 12-18.Gujarat reports six new Omicron cases, tally goes up to 49Gujarat on Saturday reported six new Omicron cases, taking the state tally to 49, ANI reported citing state government data.Maharashtra reports two new Omicron cases, both from AurangabadMaharashtra on Saturday confirmed two fresh cases of Omicron variant of Covid-19. Both the patients are from Aurangabad. With this, the state's tally has climbed to 110, with 57 patients recovered as well.Mumbai reports 757 new Covid-19 cases, active cases stand at 3,703Mumbai reports 757 new Covid-19, and no fatalities due to the virus in the last 24 hours, according to the health bulletin data. The active case count of the city stands at 3,703.Uttar Pradesh confirms third Omicron case, state's tally climbs to 3Woman aged 29, who recently returned to Rae Bareilly in Uttar Pradesh from the US via Delhi, has tested positive for Omicron. With this, Omicron cases in the northern state has risen to three.Kerala reports one more Omicron case, state's tally rises to 38Kerala has confirmed one more Omicron case, taking the state's tally to 38, health minister Veena George told ANI on Saturday.Delhi sees massive spike in single-day Covid-19 cases, logs 249 infectionsDelhi sees massive spike in single-day Covid-19 cases, logs 249 new infections along with one more fatality. The national capital's cumulative tally now stands at 14,43,062 and the death toll at 25,104, according to the health bulletin data. This is the highest single-day spike since Delhi reported 255 cases on June 13 this year.World's most powerful space telescope lifts off into orbitWorld's most powerful space telescope lifts off into orbit. “Webb’s mission to #UnfoldTheUniverse will change our understanding of space as we know it,” NASA tweeted.Assam announces night curfew across state from 11.30pm to 6am starting tomorrowAssam announces night curfew across state from 11.30pm to 6am starting tomorrow in wake of rising cases of Omicron Covid-19 variant in India. The curbs will, however, not be applicable for December 31, 2021.2 terrorists killed in encounter Jammu and Kashmir#TralEncounterUpdate: 02 unidentified #terrorists killed. Search going on. Further details shall follow. @JmuKmrPolice https://t.co/lce4hWASaSTwo terrorists have been killed in encounter in Tral area of Jammu and Kashmir's Awantipora, police tweeted on Saturday.Rajasthan's Omicron tally climbs to 43 with 21 new casesRajasthan reports 21 fresh Omicron cases, taking the state's tally to 43, ANI reported citing the health department.22 farm unions form political front SSM, to contest in Punjab pollsAs many as 22 farm organisations has formed a political front namely Sanyukt Samaj Morcha, and it will contest all 117 constituencies in the upcoming Punjab elections 2022. The party is led by BS Rajewal.Punjab Police takes dismissed head constable into custody to probe Ludhiana court blast casePunjab Police takes dismissed head constable into custody regarding the investigation into the Ludhiana court blast.Ambala fully vaccinates 100% adult population with Covid-19 vaccineAmbala has achieved the 100% vaccination coverage of its adult population with both doses of Covid-19 vaccine, deputy commissioner Vikram Yadav told ANI.People offer prayers at Srinagar's Saint Luke's Church for ChristmasJammu & Kashmir | People offer prayers at over a century-old Saint Luke's Church in Srinagar on the occasion of #Christmas pic.twitter.com/wh0cmAW3sKPeople offer prayers at over a century-old Saint Luke's Church in Srinagar in Jammu and Kashmir (J&K) for Christmas, following its reopening after three decades.Kejriwal urges lawyers of Punjab to join AAPAAP supremo and Delhi CM Arvind Kejriwal on Saturday urged the “80,000-85,000” lawyers of Punjab to join the party, according to ANI. “We will build lawyers' chambers, medical and life insurance, will give stipend and will also build high court benches,” Kejriwal said, while talking to lawyers in Amritsar.Mandaviya chairs high-level meeting on P&K fertiliser productionAnd proposes additional provisions in NBS Policy to promote domestic production of P&K fertilizers in the country. Decision will help in utilizing the unutilized domestic production capacity of these fertilizers & promote Atmanirbhar Bharat: Chemicals & Fertilizers MinistryUnion minister for chemicals and fertilisers Mansukh Mandaviya on Friday chaired a high-level meeting wherein it was decided to continue support to the domestic industry for the production of P&K fertilisers, ANI reported citing the ministry.PM Modi takes decisions that do ’good' to people: Amit Shah“The last 21 governments have taken decisions keeping in mind their vote banks. Narendra Modi govt never took decisions that 'looks' good to the people, he always took decisions that 'did' good to the people,” says Union home minister Amit Shah at Good Governance Day program in DelhiLudhiana blast: Deceased ex-cop was carrying explosives, says top copThe deceased person, former policeman Gagandeep Singh was carrying the explosion. He was dismissed from service in 2019 and spent two years in jail following his arrest in a drug-trafficking case: Siddharth Chattopadhyaya, DGP, PunjabPrisoner dies in Delhi's Tihar JailA case of death of a prisoner has come to light in Tihar Jail no. 3 yesterday. He was found unconscious in his cell and was taken to hospital where the doctors declared him dead. Magisterial inquiry underway. 5 deaths have taken place in the last 8 days at Tihar jail: Delhi PoliceCovid-19: Centre to send teams to 10 statesA decision has been taken to deploy multi-disciplinary central teams to 10 identified states some of which are either reporting an increasing number of Omicron and Covid-19 cases or slow vaccination pace: Union health ministry2 unidentified terrorists neutralised in J&K's ShopianTwo unidentified terrorists neutralised in the encounter that broke out between security forces and terrorists in the Chowgam area of Shopian. Incriminating materials including arms and ammunition recovered. The search operation is underway: Kashmir Zone PoliceIndia logs 7189 new Covid-19 cases and 387 deathsIndia's Covid-19 tally rises to 34,779,815 with 7189 fresh cases. 387 new fatalities tale toll to 479,520.173 new Covid-19 cases in MizoramMizroam logs 173 new Covid-19 cases as tally rises to 140,427. 138,322 recoveries, 1569 active cases and 536 deaths thus far.Low visibility procedures at Delhi AirportLow visibility procedures are in progress at Delhi Airport. All flight operations are presently normal: Delhi International Airport Limited (DIAL)At 398, Delhi's AQI in ‘very poor’ categoryDelhi's Air Quality Index (AQI) presently at 398 (overall) in the 'very poor' category, as per System of Air Quality and Weather Forecasting And Research (SAFAR)-India.Over 6000 new Covid-19 cases in Australia's New South WalesNew South Wales, Australia's most populous state, logs 6288 new Covid-19 cases, 376 more than the previous day. Death toll, however, stays unchanged.Canada's Covid-19 cases top 1.95 millionCanada logs 11,304 new Covid-19 cases, as total cases rise to 1,957,058. Overall deaths at 30,139.In fresh record, UK sees 122,186 new Covid-19 casesUK reports fresh record of 122,186 new Covid-19 cases, up from 119,789 a day before.Encounter breaks out in J&K's ShopianEncounter breaks out between security forces and terrorists in Chowgam area of Shopian: Jammu and Kashmir Police||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/breaking-news-live-december-25-2021-101640389436204.html
25-12-2021||India||Delhi high court annuls 16-year marriage as wife conceals her mental health issues||New Delhi: Observing that it is not easy to live with a partner having mental health issues, the Delhi high court on Friday annulled the marriage between a couple after 16 years. It said the failure on the wife’s part to disclose her mental disorder before her wedding constituted a fraud on the husband.A bench of justices Vipin Sanghi and Jasmeet Singh, while dealing with an appeal filed by the husband challenging a family court order rejecting his plea to abolish the marriage, said while it was true that the medical opinion in the case was not conclusive, the evidence of the doctors coupled with the medical documents suggested that wife was suffering from schizophrenia.“…It is not easy to live with a partner who has mental health issues, and such ailments come with their own challenges for the person facing the problem, and even more so for the spouse. There needs to be an understanding of the problems in a marriage, and communication between the partners– especially when one of the two partners in a marriage is facing challenges of their own,” the court said in a 24-page order.“The failure on the part of the respondent (wife) to disclose her mental disorder before her marriage with the appellant (husband) as alleged by him, constituted a fraud perpetrated upon him,” it added.It said the refusal by the wife to undergo medical examination by the medical board of experts lead to the inference that she was not prepared to face the board as that it could have exposed the condition of her mental well being and would have established the allegation made by the husband that she was suffering from schizophrenia.“Why else, such a spouse–who claims to be not suffering from any mental ailment who has preferred a petition to seek restitution of conjugal rights, and expresses her desire to live with the appellant husband, not undergo such medical examination?” the bench said in a 21-page judgment.The husband had contended that the marriage was the outcome of a calculated fraud that was perpetrated by the wife and her family members as they chose not to disclose a vital and crucial fact regarding her mental health.He had also claimed that the wife was, before the marriage, and during the days that she stayed with the husband, suffering from acute schizophrenia. He stated that the wife behaved in a very unusual manner after her marriage in the matrimonial home, as well as during their honeymoon while seeking annulment of the marriage.Allowing his plea, the court said that the husband’s life has been ruined and he has remained stuck in the relationship for 16 years without any resolution.“In the most important years of his life, when the appellant would have, otherwise, enjoyed marital and conjugal bliss and satisfaction, he has had to suffer due to the obstinacy displayed by not only the respondent, but even her father, who appears to have been calling the shots in relation to the matrimonial dispute raised by the appellant,” the court said.The judge also said that they are not medical professionals or experts and acquire limited knowledge based on the arguments of the parties, medical literature produced before them; testimonies of expert witnesses produced in court, and the submissions advanced before them.The court said that marriage is not made of only happy memories and good times, and two people in a marriage have to face challenges and weather the storm together. It also said that “treatment of any mental ailment requires acceptance of the same, not only by the family members but, most importantly, by the person suffering from the problem”.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/delhi-high-court-annuls-16-year-marriage-as-wife-conceals-her-mental-health-issues-101640374701666.html
25-12-2021||India||Uttarakhand minister storms out of cabinet meet, BJP says he hasn’t resigned||Uttarakhand minister Harak Singh Rawat on Friday stormed out of a cabinet meeting reportedly upset over alleged “government inaction” in connection with a proposed medical college in his constituency of Kotdwar, according to officials present at the meeting. He allegedly tendered his “oral resignation” as he walked out, it is learnt. However, cabinet minister and government spokesperson Subodh Uniyal and BJP party state president Madan Kaushik, dismissed reports of Rawat’s resignation. Phone calls and texts to Rawat for comment went unanswered.“While the cabinet was discussing various proposals during the meeting, led by chief minister Pushkar Singh Dhami, Rawat raised the issue of approving the proposed medical college in his constituency of Kotdwar…which led to an argument between the two,” an official who was present at the meeting said, requesting anonymity. “The argument heated up as Rawat alleged that development projects in his constituency are not being approved in conspiracy. He then stormed out of the meeting saying, ‘There is no use of being a minister, I am leaving the cabinet’,” said the official. At a press briefing after the meeting, Uniyal said, “I have no information about his resignation. But he was unhappy over an issue related to proposed medical college in his constituency as apart from being a minister, he is also an MLA.” Kaushik, while emphasising that Rawat has not resigned, said: “Nobody has resigned from the party. However, if Rawat may have some issues pertaining to his constituency, then party will speak to him and solve them.” Leader of opposition and senior Congress leader, Pritam Singh, said in a veiled reference: “In politics, doors are never closed permanently for anyone. However, having said that, welcoming any leader from the other party would be decided by leadership after proper analysis.” Rawat is considered to have played a key role in the rebellion of nine Congress MLAs in 2016 who switched to the BJP. 
25-12-2021||India||Mohali court rejects anticipatory bail plea of Majithia in drugs case||A Mohali court on Friday rejected the anticipatory bail plea of Shiromani Akali Dal leader Bikram Singh Majithia who has been booked in connection with a drugs case.During the hearing, special judge Sandeep Kumar Singla — while dealing with the allegations of political antagonism — observed that a delay in lodging the criminal case cannot be grounds to presume that the whole case against the applicant is falseThe bench also said that the FIR has been registered on the basis of report which prima facie shows the “involvement” of the applicant in the drug trade and harbouring of accused involved in drug mafia. “All these facts and financial transactions and extend of complicity of the applicant needs to be thoroughly investigated which can be done only under custodial interrogation of the applicant,” the court said, adding that the question on legality of the criminal case, whether it is borne out of political vendetta or not, cannot be a ground for grant of anticipatory bail.In his application, Majithia said the current dispensation had left no stone unturned to “misuse its powers and position for wreaking vengeance” upon political opponents and that his arrest was an “election stunt”.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/mohali-court-rejects-anticipatory-bail-plea-of-sad-leader-bikram-singh-majithia-in-drugs-case-101640374281711.html
25-12-2021||India||MiG-21 crashes in Rajasthan, IAF pilot killed||A MiG-21 Bison of the Indian Air Force (IAF) crashed in Rajasthan on Friday evening, killing the pilot, Wing Commander Harshit Sinha. This is the fifth crash involving a Bison jet this year.“This evening, around 8:30 pm, a MiG-21 aircraft of IAF met with a flying accident in the western sector during a training sortie...,” the IAF said in a statement.Later, in another tweet, the IAF confirmed the pilot’s death.“With deep sorrow, IAF conveys the sad demise of Wing Commander Harshit Sinha in the flying accident this evening and stands firmly with the family of the braveheart,” it said.The crash has once again turned the spotlight on India’s longest-serving fighter plane, its safety record and the IAF’s plans to replace the ageing jets with newer ones in the coming years.The Bison is the latest variant of Mig-21 in IAF service. IAF operates four squadrons of MiG-21 Bison aircraft — a squadron has 16 to 18 fighter jets. The last of these upgraded MiG-21s are set to be phased out in three to four years.The air force got its first single-engine MiG-21 in 1963, and it progressively inducted 874 variants of the Soviet-origin supersonic fighters to bolster its combat potential. Of the 874 MiG-21 variants inducted by the IAF, over 60% were licence-produced in India.More than 400 MiG-21s have been involved in accidents that have claimed the lives of more than 200 pilots during the last six decades, earning the fighters ominous epithets such as “Flying Coffin” and “Widow Maker”.Experts have said that more MiG-21s have crashed than any other fighter because they formed the bulk of the fighter aircraft in the IAF’s inventory for a long time.IAF had to keep its MiG-21 fleet flying longer than it would have liked because of delay in the induction of new fighters.The Bison was involved in IAF operations after the unprecedented, peacetime, cross-border strike against terror targets in Pakistan’s Balakot two years ago.Wing Commander (now Group Captain) Abhinandan Varthaman scripted military aviation history by downing a Pakistan Air Force F-16, seconds before his own MiG-21 Bison was hit by a missile forcing him to eject on February 27, 2019.
25-12-2021||India||Will make Punjab peaceful if AAP voted to power: Arvind Kejriwal||GURDASPUR: The Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) will work on five points to make Punjab peaceful and rid it of drugs menace, party’s national convener and Delhi chief minister Arvind Kejriwal said on Friday, while alleging a conspiracy behind the recent cases of sacrilege and explosion in the poll-bound state. “Our first step will be to ensure corruption-free recruitment of police officers in the state… so that a peaceful atmosphere is created,” Kejriwal said while addressing a poll rally at Hanuman Chowk in Gurdaspur. His party’s second step, Kejriwal said, will be to order a thorough probe into all important cases, including Bargari sacrilege and bomb blasts. He added that his party would ensure that no sacrilege of any religion happen in future. The AAP chief said his third step would be to protect Punjab’s border with Pakistan. “We will protect the border so that no terrorist enters the state. We will also ensure that are no smuggling of drugs from across the border,” he said. “Our fourth step will be to provide high-tech technology to the border security force (BSF) and the Punjab police to tackle the threat of drones being used for smuggling of narcotics and weapons from across the border. During our government’s tenure, the BSF and police will not face any problem while gunning down the drones,” Kejriwal said. He said his fifth step would be to provide maximum security to all religious places. “We will make a separate police force to protect all gurdwaras, deras, temples and masjids of Punjab,” he said. Talking about the latest sacrilege incidents and the Ludhiana bomb blast, Kejriwal said, “I was saddened after hearing the news of Ludhiana bomb blast… Few days ago, there were cases of sacrilege. Such incidents before polls are being done under a conspiracy to vitiate the peaceful atmosphere in the state. It is the handiwork of a few people,” claimed Kejriwal. He also hit out at chief minister Charanjit Singh Channni-led Punjab government, calling it “weak”. “There is a weak government in Punjab. Their party leaders are fighting amongst themselves.” He added that Punjab needs an honest strong government which can act against those indulging in conspiracies. He also alleged the person who attempted sacrilege at the Golden Temple must have been sent by someone influential to foment tension and added that such incidents will “keep taking place until a strong government takes over”. The AAP chief also slammed the Congress on the drug menace in the state, saying the government, during the previous poll campaign, had promised to wipe out the mafia within a month of forming the government. “During five years, only one FIR is registered and CM Channi and (state Congress chief) Navjot Singh Sidhu are boasting about it,” he said, referring to the FIR registered by the Punjab police against former minister and Shiromani Akali Dal leader Bikram Singh Majithia under the Narcotic Drugs and Psychotropic Substances (NDPS) Act on the basis of a 2018 status report of a probe into the drug racket. “It is only a political stunt,” said Kejriwal. He said if his party’s government comes to the power in 2022, they will eradicate drugs in six months. “We have Kunwar Vijay Pratap like honest officers and we won’t be running a dramatic government.” He also spoke about his government’s development in Delhi. “In Delhi, government schools have become models. When our government was formed, the condition of government schools was deplorable. In five years, we worked hard to make government schools like private schools... If the people of Punjab want good schools, they should vote for AAP. The teachers of Punjab also want to change the atmosphere of Punjab schools, but the government is not supporting them.” Meanwhile, chief minister Channi dared the AAP chief to perform in Delhi before “promising moon” in Punjab. “The AAP chief is eyeing the wealth of Punjab due to which he is building castles in air to attract people,” Channi said, while addressing a gathering after dedicating a bridge from Talwara Jatta to Simbli Gujran to the people. He dared Kejriwal to announce cheap power and petrol to residents of Delhi on line of what the Punjab government has done. “The AAP leadership should understand one simple thing that proud Punjabis will not allow any outsider to rule them,” Channi said, adding his government is providing cheapest petrol and diesel in entire northern region.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/will-make-punjab-peaceful-if-aap-voted-to-power-arvind-kejriwal-101640373983753.html
25-12-2021||India||Owaisi’s remarks trigger controversy; BJP compares him to Jinnah||New Delhi: AIMIM president Asaduddin Owaisi’s remarks at a poll rally cautioning the Uttar Pradesh Police triggered a controversy on Friday with the BJP comparing him to Muhammad Ali Jinnah, even though he clarified that the context of his remarks was deliberately edited out to misrepresent them.In a series of tweets, All India Majlis-E-Ittehadul Muslimeen (AIMIM) chief Owaisi shared a video clip which has been widely circulated on social media and said the remarks made by him were in the context of atrocities against Muslims by the state police, which has been edited out of the clip. In the video clip shared by him, Owaisi is heard saying that Yogi Adityanath will not always be the chief minister and Narendra Modi the prime minister. “We will not forget the injustice. We will remember this injustice. Allah will destroy you through his strength. Things will change. Who will come to save you then? When Yogi will return to his mutt and Modi will retreat to the mountains, then who will come?” he said. Owaisi said the edited one-minute clip of his 45-minute speech was being circulated to divert the attention from the alleged hate speeches made at a Dharma Sansad in Haridwar which he alleged as “genocidal meet”. “I did not incite violence or give threats. I talked about police atrocities.... I said we will remember these police atrocities. Is this objectionable? Why is it offensive to remember how police have treated Muslims in UP? I asked cops: who will come to save them when Modi-Yogi retire? Indeed, who will? Do they think they’ve lifetime immunity?” Owaisi tweeted while clarifying his position. Taking on Owaisi over his remarks, BJP spokesperson Sudhanshu Trivedi compared him to Jinnah, the founder of Pakistan, and said AIMIM leaders are used to making such mischievous remarks. “...soul of Jinnah resides in Owaisi,” Trivedi said, adding that the Hyderabad MP’s remarks are similar to that of Jinnah made in 1946, a year before partition, while talking about direct action. BJP IT cell head Amit Malviya tweeted, “Owaisi, like (Mughal emperor) Aurangzeb and Jinnah, is the face of civilisational battle that Sanatan Dharma has faced for millennia. Balance of power is the need of the hour.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/owaisis-remarks-trigger-controversy-bjp-compares-him-to-jinnah-101640373982410.html
25-12-2021||India||Uttarakhand CM orders inquiry into sacking of Dalit cook||Days after a controversy erupted over the sacking of a Dalit woman as a cook from a Champawat school, following protest by parents of “upper caste” students who refused to eat food prepared by her, Uttarakhand chief minister Pushkar Singh Dhami on Friday ordered an inquiry in the incident.Dhami told deputy inspector general (DIG) of police, Kumaon, Nilesh Anand Bharne, to go to the village and probe the matter personally, according to a government statement.The 32-year-old Sunita Devi joined as bhojanmata in a government inter college (GIC), Sukhidhang, in Champawat district on December 13. Secondary schools in several Indian states are referred to as inter colleges.Some 40 pupils of Class 6 to 8, of the total 66 pupils, belonging to the upper caste refused to eat the midday meals cooked by her and started bringing tiffin. The boycott sparked an inquiry and on Wednesday, the district authorities scrapped Devi’s appointment, saying norms were not followed while giving her the job.Parents of the upper caste children backed the boycott and alleged that Devi was chosen as the cook by overlooking a more deserving candidate, Pushpa Bhatt, a Brahmin. On Wednesday, they welcomed Devi’s removal and said the issue had been resolved.“We received 11 applications for a bhojanmata post. She was selected for the post on December 5... When the row of boycotting midday meals erupted, our senior officers held an inquiry and cancelled her appointment on December 21, saying due process was not followed,” said Prem Singh, principal, GIC, Sukhidhang.Asked what the due process was, he said the school did not take permission for her appointment from the district education officer.After her removal, Sunita Devi approached the revenue officer (tehsildar) in Tanakpur and the police outpost in Chalthi, and handed over a complaint alleging harassment by the parents of upper caste students, and termed her removal caste discrimination. Police are yet to register a case on her complaint. “I will apply again for the post when it is advertised in the future. I will try to get my job back and that will be a befitting reply to those who have harassed and insulted me,” she told HT.Sunita and her husband Prem Ram are labourers who earn their living by working in fields of other persons, mostly upper castes.Sunita has two sons — Neeraj, 13 and Paras, 10, who study in class 8 and 6, respectively, in the same college where she was appointed as bhojanmata. She manages her home on the widow pension of her mother-in-law Rukmani Devi. “...I was very happy with my new job as bhojanmata, thinking this will help my family’s financial income and we will see good days. But I was removed from the post within a week due to controversy created by supporters of an upper caste woman who had also applied for this post,” said Sunita Devi.Narendra Joshi, a villager and president of the parent teacher association, GIC, however, denied any discrimination.“In first meeting which was held on November 25 to select bhojanmata, Pushpa Bhatt was selected but in next meeting, held on December 5 Sunita was appointed... Our stand was only if Bhatt was selected then in next meeting why she was sidelined...,” said Joshi.Dalit rights activists described the incident as the worst form of discrimination. “She was removed because she was a Dalit and upper caste people had opposed her appointment,” Govind Baudh, president, Bhim Army, Kumoan.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/uttarakhand-cm-orders-inquiry-into-sacking-of-dalit-cook-101640373921425.html
25-12-2021||India||Do people come to Bihar to drink, asks Nitish; rejects ideas to relax prohibition||Bihar chief minister Nitish Kumar on Friday rejected suggestions made from different quarters that the prohibition law should be relaxed for those coming to the state from outside. “They say we should at least exempt those coming from other states. Do people come to Bihar to drink? Many people are angry with me because I have brought in prohibition,” said Kumar while addressing people at Gopalganj on the second leg of his Samaj Sudhar Yatra. “Don’t call it a yatra. A yatra can end but a campaign cannot,” he reasoned. “A campaign has been started for drug de-addiction, eradication of dowry system and freedom from child marriage in the society. Travel is a part of social reform campaign. This social reform campaign will continue. Social reform campaign will continue in every city, village and town,” he added. There have been fresh demands for exempting ‘outsiders’ like in Gujarat, another dry state, in the aftermath of a police overkill to enforce the ban on liquor. He also turned down suggestions that an exception be made on medical grounds for certified alcoholics, asserting that people spoiled their health by drinking and not by being prevented from doing so. Kumar’s firmness towards prohibition comes after the state was rattled by a series of hooch tragedies in November leading to the death of over 40 people at several districts including Gopalganj. The CM said that both consuming and doing business of alcohol is a crime. “If you drink alcohol, you will die and if you sell it, you will be punished,” he warned. Kumar, who handed over a cheque to the Jeevika group, said that the role of Jeevika Didis is very important in the campaign, because alcohol was banned only on the demand of women. Despite prohibition, some people are making a mess, but only women can raise their voices against those people. In addition to prohibition, Kumar also appealed to people to eradicate other social evils like child marriage and dowry. 
25-12-2021||India||Rawat gets his way, will lead Uttarakhand poll campaign||Harish Rawat’s position as the face of the Congress in Uttarakhand ahead of polls in the hill state was reiterated, the former chief minister said Friday after a four-hour-long meeting with the party’s central leadership that was also attended by Rahul Gandhi.The move appeared to quell his rebellion, which first surfaced in a series of Twitter posts two days ago, at least for now.“I will lead as the campaign committee chairman and everyone will support me,’’ Rawat told reporters in the Capital. In other words, people aware of the details said, the upcoming elections in Uttarakhand will be fought under him. The party, however, did not go as far as naming Rawat as the chief ministerial candidate at a time when the Congress is attempting to wrest power back from the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP).“After elections, the legislature party will sit and decide who will lead them. In Uttarakhand, we will follow that,’’ Rawat said, adding that he was no longer thinking of either retirement or quitting the party. “Kadam, kadam badhaye ja, Congress ke geet gaye ja (Let’s move forward step by step, let’s sing for the Congress party),’’ Rawat added.His words were in sharp contrast to a Twitter thread on Wednesday that suggested the Congress was heading to an internal political crisis in yet another state.“Isn’t it strange, one has to swim in the sea in the form of forthcoming electoral battle... instead of cooperation, the organisational structure at most places is turning its face away or is playing a negative role... There are many crocodiles... On whose directions one has to swim, their nominees are tying my hands and feet,” Rawat wrote on Wednesday. The twitter thread went on to say that he was contemplating retirement.In the meeting on Friday, which was primarily chaired by the party’s organisational general secretary KC Venugopal with Rahul Gandhi dropping in towards the end, the Congress leadership tried to assuage Rawat’s feelings of being left out of decision making. “Even though he is the head of the campaign committee, he felt that he wasn’t getting his way. So we tried to speak to both sides and get them to listen to each other, to keep the other side in the loop,’’ said a person who attended the meeting, asking not to be named.The other attendees to the meeting, which comes just two months before the state elections included the AICC in charge of the state Devendra Yadav, the state congress chief Ganesh Godiyal, and legislature party leader Pritam Singh, among others.“There is no doubt that he is the face of the Congress in the state but the Congress president will decide who will be chief minister. Harish Rawat is happy with that,’’ said a second leader aware of the details.The Congress is looking to dislodge the BJP from power in the hill state, which Rawat served as CM between 2014 and 2017.The BJP is roiled by troubles of its own, and has changed its chief minister three times in the last year. The BJP has 55 sitting MLAs and the Congress 12 in the state assembly.Rawat served as chief minister of Uttarakhand between 2014 and 2017, and the party sees 2022 as a big opportunity since the BJP is roiled by troubles of its own. The ruling party in the state has changed its chief minister three times in the last year. In the 70-member assembly, the BJP has 55 members and the Congress has only 12.People aware of the matter said that there is a section of the party which feels Rawat, at 73, should step aside and make way for a new leadership. Gandhi was said to be keen on an alternative face, like the his pick in Punjab, Dalit leader Charanjit Singh Channi who replaced former CM Captain Amarinder Singh after his public spat with the party’s state unit head Navjot Singh Sidhu.It was significant, therefore, that the party’s Dalit leader in Uttarakhand, Yashpal Arya, who recently rejoined the Congress from the BJP, also attended Friday’s meeting.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/rawat-gets-his-way-will-lead-uttarakhand-poll-campaign-101640373502248.html
25-12-2021||India||There were no illegal immigrants among those evicted in Assam’s Darrang: Report||Three months after a violent eviction drive at Dhalpur in Darrang district of Assam in which two civilians were killed, an independent study on the incident has claimed that the evicted families were not illegal immigrants or land grabbers, as alleged by the state’s BJP-led government. The study, ‘Dhalpur-The Truth Behind’ by Guwahati-based Centre for Minority Studies, Research and Development (CMSRD) was carried out by 14 members who stayed in the area for 15 days and interacted with 517 of the 963 evicted families. The ruling BJP responded to the report saying CMSRD should approach the court if it has issues with the eviction drive. On September 23, two civilians were killed in clashes between evicted families and police and 18 other people including policemen were injured during the eviction drive. The state government had evicted the area to make way for an agricultural project for indigenous people. The government had alleged that those evicted -- Bengali-speaking Muslims a majority among them -- are illegal immigrants who had forcibly occupied government land as well as land of indigenous people and also settled on grazing land. The CMSRD report however stated that of the 517 families surveyed 514 had their National Register of Citizens (NRC) legacy data preserved with them. Names of only 3 heads of families were found to be ‘doubtful voters (D-Voters). The NRC was updated in Assam to identify illegal immigrants (people who entered the state after March 1971 when Bangladesh came into being). Of the 32 million applicants, 1.9 million were excluded from the final list released in August 2019. “Since all the surveyed families have legacy data prior to 1971 they can’t be termed as either suspected Bangladeshi or people of Bangladesh origin since Bangaldesh came into existence on March 24, 1971,” said Zamser Ali, general secretary of CMSRD. The survey found that of the 3,094 persons in 517 families, names of 1998 were included in the final NRC and the rest were excluded. The survey mentions that while all families have legacy data prior to 1971, some families were left out of the NRC because of “ambiguity of NRC officials”. The report also denied allegations of land grabbing by the evicted families. It stated that of the 517 families, 134 were living in inherited land, 34 families had occupied ‘abandoned land’ (low lying areas near the river), 62 families were landless and 129 families paid their land revenue for some time. The allegation of grabbing grazing land was also denied by the report by mentioning that the villages of Dhalpur which had been evicted and nearby villages were not marked as protected grazing reserve (PGR) or village grazing reserve (VGR) in the census reports of 1971, 1991 and 2011. “The narratives of BJP-RSS and its allied organisations..is not only a distortion of facts about Dhalpur and its people, but a completely false and imaginary propaganda campaign,” the report stated. “It’s wrong to blame the BJP or RSS for the eviction drive. It was carried out by the government with permission from the court. If CMSRD has any issues they should approach the court,” said BJP spokesperson Rupam Goswami.The report stated that evicted families of Dhalpur had migrated to the area over the past several decades from Darrang, Kamrup, Goalpara and Nagaon districts due to erosion of their villages because of floods. It claimed that the evicted families who were residing in temporary shelters following the drive were not provided with basic amenities like food, drinking water and medicines. Following the Dhalpur eviction, the Assam government ordered a judicial inquiry on violent eviction drive. Leader of opposition in state assembly Debabrata Sakia filed a petition in Gauhati High Court alleging use of excessive force by the state agencies during the drive. Last month, the Assam government in an affidavit filed in reply to the petition maintained that the evicted families were encroachers and refuted claims that they were victims of floods or erosion.
25-12-2021||India||Beyond the News: Is Rawat reading from Sidhu’s Punjab playbook in Uttarakhand?||Poll-bound Uttarakhand is the new epicentre of tremors in the earthquake prone Congress. Rocking the party’s applecart there is former chief minister Harish Rawat, the AICC’s erstwhile points person in Punjab who let Navjot Sidhu swashbuckle his way through against Captain Amarinder Singh. The result: Singh has floated his own party, and joined the BJP for the upcoming elections.In a series of emotive tweets directed at the central leadership and its emissaries in the state, Rawat seemed to take a leaf out of the Sidhu playbook on how to arm-twist a weakened high command. The inspiration apparently is the former cricketer showing himself as the de facto CM, at the expense of the de jure appointee, Charanjit Singh Channi.The party in Punjab has had to give in to Sidhu’s choices in the appointments of the advocate general and the police chief. Its acquiescence of silence is evident also in his comments after the public lynching of suspects in recent cases of alleged sacrilege, where he called for those that commit sacrilege to be hanged publicly.In their anxiety to keep Sidhu in the party fold, the central leadership ignored his irrepressible, insubordinate ways. The dangerous precedent they set in the process caused a near-total dilution of the party writ. Little wonder then that Rawat, the Punjab referee, is seeking to be similarly audacious in Uttarakhand.But why is he upset? From what one learns, his crib is no different from that of Sidhu’s. They both want to be declared the CM face in the run up to the polls. Doing that in Punjab would be suicidal, the incumbent being a Dalit whose promotion has fetched the Congress the traction it needs among the 32% Scheduled Caste electorate.The other tussle, which could soon come to a head, is about the selection of candidates. Their shared quest to be CM can only be realised through majority support in new legislature parties. The exercise will be akin to walking on eggshells in Punjab with multiple Congress factions led by Sidhu, Channi, home minister Sukhjinder Randhawa and senior leaders Pratap Bajwa and Sunil Jakhar.In relative terms, ticket distribution could be simpler in Uttarakhand which currently has two factions, one led by Rawat and the other by Congress legislature party leader Pritam Singh. There is resistance from these groups --eyeing a lion’s share of seats -- to the return of Congressmen who defected to the BJP after the 2017 debacle.In those polls, the Congress made Rawat its CM face, projecting him as the electorate’s choice: “Sabki chahat Harish Rawat.” The outcome: he failed to enter the assembly from the Kichha and Haridwar rural seats he contested; the Congress tally sank from 31 to 11 in the house of 70.The Congress denouement was a repeat of sorts of the BJP’s 2012 defeat when voters dumped the latter’s “Khanduri hai zaroori” pitch, defeating the party and the venerated former Union minister BC Khanduri in the constituency from where he fought. The Congress won without naming its CM, opening post-election the doors for Vijay Bahuguna, whom Rawat later replaced in the coveted office.Superstitious though it seems, such past experiences, including the late ND Tiwari’s failed 2007 bid as the Congress’s CM candidate, make many unaligned leaders want the party enter the fray without naming anybody as CM. Opinion is divided, however, over Rawat’s barely concealed push-back against accepting the post-2017 deserters in the party. Among such former Congressmen are Vijay Bahuguna, Harak Singh Rawat, Satpal Maharaj, and Yashpal Arya. Only the last named has since returned.Rawat’s refrain that those who left the party must pay for their mahapaap (sin), was met with a biting rebuttal from Harak Singh, his bête noire for many years. He tauntingly reminded the former CM that people punished him in 2017 when he couldn’t win either of the two seats he contested.To be fair, Rawat could have had valid reasons to go public with his grievances. Congress apparatchiks assigned to states often tend to play favourites or obediently follow the high command’s directives without factoring in the downsides. That ironically happened on Rawat’s watch in Punjab. The boot now is on the other foot.The big imponderable is whether Rawat will be reined in or allowed to replicate Punjab in the hilly state-- where the Congress’s poll prospects are rated higher.For starters, he has been placated rather than disciplined by getting named the Congress’s campaign panel head after a meeting on Friday with Rahul Gandhi. Count that with the leg-up he managed earlier in the middle of the Punjab imbroglio by having his man Ganesh Godiyal appointed as Congress’s state unit chief, one is tempted to conclude that Rawat is the Congress in his state.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/beyond-the-news-is-rawat-reading-from-sidhu-s-punjab-playbook-in-uttarakhand-101640373387475.html
25-12-2021||India||Ministers, Opposition exchange barbs over disruptions during Winter Session of Parliament||Two days after the acrimonious winter session came to an end, the Opposition and the government continued to trade barbs over disruptions that wasted 52% of the allotted time of the Rajya Sabha and 19% of the Lok Sabha.“It is both astonishing and saddening that members of the Opposition, especially senior members of the Congress party, have deviated from the well-known truth about what transpired in the recently concluded session, in the Rajya Sabha,” parliamentary affairs minister Pralhad Joshi said in a statement.The winter session of Parliament ended on December 22, a day before the scheduled conclusion, due to protest by opposition parties demanding removal of minister of state for home affairs Ajay Mishra Teni, whose son Ashish is an accused in the Lakhimpur Kheri incident, and against the suspension of 12 Opposition MPs from the Rajya Sabha.Joshi said, “The Opposition appeared committed to hampering the running of the House. The public of our country and even history is witness to the level of noise and indiscipline the Opposition has made a kind of practice to bring to the sittings of the House.”The senior Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) leader accused the Opposition of trying to “use every means to not let the House proceedings carry on. It was painful when some members of the Opposition reduced the temple of democracy to a theatre of street fight.”On Thursday, senior Congress leaders Mallikarjun Kharge and Jairam Ramesh had said that Rajya Sabha chairman Venkaiah Naidu used to “adjourn the House under pressure of the government”.On Friday, Joshi said that senior Congress leaders such as Ramesh tried to create an “opposite narrative” by “casting aspersions on the functioning of a constitutional authority, the chairman of the Rajya Sabha” and said the Congress leader by doing so did a “disfavour not only to the truth, but to democracy itself”.Minutes later, Ramesh retorted, “I hope the mention of my name in Shri Prahlad Joshi’s statement defending an unconstitutional and illegal suspension of 12 MPs is not a prelude to my suspension for the forthcoming budget session. This regime is capable of anything and most of all is simply not interested in any meaningful discussion on pressing national issues.”“And as far as Joshi’s accusation is concerned, I have always believed respect has to commanded, not demanded,” he added.Joshi said a “deeply pained” chairman “reached out to the Opposition to break the stalemate”.The minister accused the Opposition of “coming back in multiple voices which were unclear and contradictory at the same time”.“Duplicitousness was obvious beneath some weak conciliatory overtures. When the chairman reached out in a concrete manner, the response proved that the intention beneath the conciliatory talk was that the House does not run,” the minister said.Union minister and leader of the House in the Rajya Sabha, Piyush Goyal, said the Opposition should introspect on the “uncivilised” behaviour of MPs who “attacked marshals, including women, in Parliament”.“Opposition must introspect on uncivilised behaviour of MPs who attacked marshals, including women in Parliament, & their unregretful, totally obstructive response to honest, sincere efforts of Govt. & Chairman Shri @MVenkaiahNaidu ji to resolve the issue,” Goyal tweeted.Hitting out at the opposition parties, Union housing and urban affairs minister Hardeep Singh Puri, who is also the minister for petroleum, said, “The Opposition didn’t allow Parliament to work. There were several issues which had to be discussed such as price rise and the government was ready to discuss them. But they didn’t let the discussion happen.”Taking a dig at the Congress, BJP national spokesperson Sudhanshu Trivedi said, “They neither know how to run a government nor act like a responsible Opposition.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/ministers-opposition-exchange-barbs-over-disruptions-during-winter-session-of-parliament-101640373386477.html
25-12-2021||India||Bomber at Ludhiana district courts complex was former Punjab policeman: Probe||A dismissed ex-cop is suspected to have been the bomber at the Ludhiana district courts complex on Thursday, the preliminary investigation showed on Friday. The bomber died in the incident, which also left six people injured.The suspect was identified as Gagandeep Singh alias Gaggi, of Mohalla Guru Teg Bahadur, Lalheri road of Khanna, a former policeman who was dismissed from service in 2019 after being arrested in a drug peddling case by the Ludhiana unit of the state’s Special Task Force (STF). He was posted as a head constable at a police station in Khanna at the time of his dismissal.Gaggi was bailed out from the jail on September 8 after spending 25 months in custody. A hearing of his drug case was scheduled for Friday, which was adjourned to February 3, 2022.The agencies have found a damaged mobile phone from the spot besides a bag, suspected to have belonged to the suspect.A team of three doctors along with forensic experts conducted the postmortem examination of the body on Friday and preserved DNA samples. The body had been ripped apart in the explosion. The postmortem report was handed over to the investigating agencies in a sealed envelope.The damaged mobile phone found in the debris at the spot is being viewed as a vital clue. The agencies suspect that the mobile phone was used as a trigger to explode the bomb. Investigators are still searching the debris for more clues.Gaggi was arrested by the STF on August 11, 2019. The STF had arrested two accused Amandeep Singh alias Mauli and Vikas Kumar alias Lara from Sector 39 in Chandigarh following a tip-off when they were travelling by car. The STF recovered 400g heroin from the car and lodged an FIR under sections 21, 29, 61 and 85 of the NDPS Act.During the investigation, the accused revealed that they got the heroin from Gaggi. The STF then arrested Gaggi and recovered 385g heroin from his possession, after which he was dismissed from service. Gaggi had joined the police as a constable on December 15, 2011 and was promoted to head constable in 2015.
25-12-2021||India||States impose curbs to tackle Omicron variant||Four states reimposed a night curfew on Friday as a precautionary even as the others ramped up efforts to boost vaccination rates amid the the growing threat from the Omicron variant and an increase in Covid-19 cases in some parts of the country.While a night curfew between 11pm and 5am will be enforced in Uttar Pradesh and Haryana from Saturday, the restrictions started in Maharashtra from Friday night between 9pm and 6am.The night curfew in Rajasthan also took effect from Friday night between 11 pm and 5 am.Gujarat, which imposed the night curfew earlier, has extended the timings by two hours (from 1am to 5am to 11pm to 5 am) in eight cities — Ahmedabad, Vadodara, Surat, Rajkot, Bhavnagar, Jamnagar, Gandhinagar and Junagadh.According to a statement by Uttar Pradesh government, chief minister Yogi Adityanath ordered the reimposition of the curfew at a Covid-19 review meeting on Friday.The chief minister also ordered the reintroduction of restrictions on gathering at weddings and to limit public gatherings to 200, with adherence to Covid safety protocols. He instructed officials to ensure testing and contact tracing among people entering Uttar Pradesh from other states.On Friday, 42 new cases were reported across the state, and the state’s Omicron tally rose by two. The state’s total case tally stands at 1,710,838.Haryana reported 79 total cases, and four Omicron-positive samples. It’s total cases stand at 772,451. Rajasthan added 42 Covid cases, and 23 Omicron cases. It’s total tally is 955,373.In order to tackle the transmission of the infection, the Haryana government has barred people, who are not fully vaccinated against Covid-19, from public places after January 1.State health minister Anil Vij said in a statement: “2.61 lakhs people got vaccination on 23rd December. It is one lakh more than average vaccination of about 1.5 lakhs daily. This is after the announcement of Haryana Govt that after 1st Jan, nobody will be allowed entry into any congested places unless he has taken two doses of vaccination.“All corona vaccination facilities in Haryana will remain open on Holidays too,” he added.Maharashtra which reported among the highest Covid-19 cases and deaths during the second wave, reported 1,410 cases (108 Omicron) on Friday with an active caseload of 6,654,755.Meanwhile, several other states/Union territories are taking measures to increase vaccination cover and cut down on public gatherings, celebrations to pre-empt any potential rise in cases.On Friday, the Chandigarh administration banned the entry of those who are unvaccinated or have received only one dose into public places like shopping malls, restaurants, banks, government offices, religious places and cinema halls, etc from January 1, 2022. The administration also announced that violators will be fined ₹500.Whereas the Odisha government issued guidelines ordering that Christmas celebration would be limited to churches with a maximum of 50 persons allowed for mass provided strict adherence to Covid-19.The guidelines , issued by the special relief commissioner, will remain in force on December 25 and 31 and extend to Januar 2,2022.The Chhattisgarh government also issued fresh guidelines for religious and social functions. According to the new guidelines, the limit has been set at 50 percent of the venue’s capacity.Tamil Nadu issued a fresh set of comprehensive guidelines and said that the norms should be strictly adhered to.Director of public health and preventive medicine T S Selvavinayagam said testing should be done for individuals who had taken up international travel during the last 14 days, healthcare workers with symptoms of Covid-19 and those patients having severe acute respiratory infection (SARI).Localities in a city or a town where international travellers are found to be positive with variant of Omicron, even single case should be included as a “containment zone” and intensive action by the health authorities should be taken up with an aim of breaking the chain of transmission, the official said.With agency inputs||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/states-impose-curbs-to-tackle-omicron-variant-101640373381533.html
25-12-2021||India||In MP school test, question on Kareena Kapoor-Saif’s son’s name. Gets show cause||The Academic Heights Public School of Khandwa received a show-cause notice from the Madhya Pradesh school education department after it asked the students to name the son of Bollywood actors Kareena Kapoor and Saif Ali Khan as part of an examination. The question figured in the current affairs section of the General Knowledge paper of class 6.The Parents Association of the school filed a complaint with the school education department after the private school asked the question as part of a test. The school asked the students to write the full name of the son of Kareena Kapoor Khan and Saif Ali Khan. The other questions in the section included which team had won the IPL in 2019 and the name of the leader of North Korea.District parents’ association president, Anish Jharjhare expressed concern at the incident. “How can the school administration ask the students such non-serious questions? Instead of asking students about historical icons and other legends, they asked for the full name of the son of a Bollywood couple.”Despite repeated attempts, the school administration did not respond to calls made on the number given on the school website. District education officer Sanjeev Bhalerao said, “We have served a show-cause notice to the school. On the basis of the reply, we will take action against the school. We will also check the question papers of other classes.” 
25-12-2021||India||Kerala sees 8 new Omicron Covid-19 cases as tally goes to 37, first patient in state recovers||Eight more cases of Omicron variant of coronavirus were detected in Kerala on Friday, taking the total number of infected people to 37, Health Minister Veena George said.One person each from Thiruvananthapuram and Kollam, two each from Alappuzha, Ernakulam and Thrissur districts have been detected with the new variant of the virus.Meanwhile, the first Omicron positive patient aged 39 has been discharged from hospital.The Health department said a 48-year-old foreigner who reached Thiruvananthapuram from Russia, a Kollam native (40) who reached Ernakulam from Namibia, an Alappuzha native (28) who reached Ernakulam from Qatar were among those who were found infected with the new variant.Another Alappuzha native (40) who reached Ernakulam from Qatar, a three-year-old girl who reached Ernakulam from the United Kingdom, a 25-year-old Ernakulam native who came from UAE, a Thrissur native (48) from Kenya and another Thrissur native (71) who was in the primary contact list of a patient are among those who were confirmed with the new variant."The three-year-old came from the UK along with her parents. Her parents were tested negative on arrival at the airport. They were under home quarantine. The tests were done after the child started showing symptoms," the health department said in a release.The new variant was confirmed in the examination of their samples conducted at Rajiv Gandhi Centre for Biotechnology here after they turned Covid positive.The state had detected its first Omicron case on December 12 in Ernakulam district when a person who had returned from the UK tested positive.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/kerala-sees-8-new-omicron-covid-19-cases-as-tally-goes-to-37-first-patient-in-state-recovers-101640372644074.html
25-12-2021||India||I-T recovers record ₹150 crore cash from UP businessman||Tax raids on premises linked to Piyush Jain, a Kanpur-based perfume businessman, yielded more than ₹150 crore in cash, Vivek Johri, chairman, Central Board of Indirect Taxes and Customs (CBIC), said in a statement on Friday.This was the biggest cash recovery in the history of the CBIC and no arrest was made in the case thus far, Johri told the media.Officials of the Directorate General of GST Intelligence (DGGI) at Jain’s house in Anandpuri said 57 large tin boxes had been purchased to keep the cash and a container truck was hired for its transportation amid tight security.The number of currency counting machines deployed by the recovery team was increased to eight, two of which were brought in from the State Bank of India’s Kalyanpur branch in the afternoon.“The counting of notes was continuing for the second day,” an official said.Videos and photographs coming from inside the house showed cash stuffed in two wardrobes of Jain’s house. Bundles of currency were wrapped in paper bound in plastic covers secured with brown tape. Another picture showed income tax officials surrounded by piles of cash, and three currency counting machines in the room.The raids on multiple premises in Uttar Pradesh, Gujarat and Mumbai began on Thursday at a factory owned by Ms Trimurti Fragrances, which manufactures the Shikhar brand of paan masala in Kanpur. The raids extended to offices and warehouses owned by Ganpati Road Carriers, also in Kanpur, following which the action shifted to Piyush Jain, a supplier of compounds for Shikhar.“Based on intelligence inputs, the residential premises of partners of Ms Odochem Industries supplying perfumery compounds was also searched,” said a GST department’s statement.“During the search proceedings at the residential premises, huge amounts of cash, wrapped in paper and plastic have been found. The process to count the cash has been initiated with the help of State Bank of India (Kanpur) officials, which may continue till December 24 evening,” the statement said.“The total amount is expected to be in excess of ₹150 crore,” it further said.GST officials said the money was linked to the dispatch of goods through fake invoices and without generating e-way bills by the transporter who generated multiple invoices in the name of non-existent firms. All the invoices were below ₹50,000 for one truckload to avoid generation of bills.At least 200 fake invoices used for transportation of goods without payment of GST had been recovered from the warehouse of the transporter, said the DGGI.A DGGI team from Ahmedabad zone took Jain’s two sons, Pratyush Jain and Molu Jain, to their ancestral house in Chipatta locality in Kannauj later in the day. The house was sealed on Thursday as Jain refused to be present when asked to come for the search, officials said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/it-recovers-record-rs-150-crore-cash-from-up-businessman-101640372241853.html
25-12-2021||India||Hizbul terrorist involved in BJP workers’ murder killed in gunfight: Police||A terrorist affiliated to Hizbul Mujahideen (HM) was killed in an encounter with security forces in South Kashmir’s Anantnag district on Friday, police said, adding he was involved in the killing of an inspector, three Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) workers and a sarpanch in the valley. According to a police spokesperson, the slain terrorist was identified as Shahzad Ahmad Seh, who was in his early 20s, a resident of Sehpora in Kulgam.A joint cordon and search operation was launched by police, Army’s 1 Rashtriya Rifles and Central Reserve Police Force (CRPF), based on a specific input regarding presence of a terrorist at Mumanhal Aarwani area of Bijbehara in Anantnag district, the spokesperson said.“During the search operation, as the presence of the trapped terrorist got ascertained, he was given ample opportunities to surrender. However, he instead fired indiscriminately upon the joint search party, which was retaliated leading to an encounter. In the ensuing encounter, one terrorist was killed and his body was retrieved from the site of encounter,” the spokesperson said.Seh was a categorised terrorist linked with the proscribed Hizbul Mujahideen (HM) outfit and was part of groups involved in several terror crime cases in the valley, the spokesperson added.“He (Seh) was involved in the killings of police inspector Mohammad Ashraf Bhat of Chandpora Kanelwan Anantnag at his residence on October 19; three BJP workers at YK-Pora Kulgam on October 29; and BJP sarpanch and his wife at Lal Chowk in Anantnag on August 9,” the spokesperson added.According to police, Seh was also involved in the attack on DDC (District Development Council) candidate Anees ul Islam Ganie at Sagam Kokernag on December 4 last year and in snatching a weapon from a constable at Shamispora crossing in Khudwani area of Kulgam on July 25. “Moreover, he was involved in various grenade lobbing incidents and attacks on security establishments in Anantnag and Kulgam areas,” the spokesperson said.Police said incriminating materials, arms and ammunition, including one AK 47 rifle, two AK magazines, 40 AK rounds and a grenade were recovered from his possession. “All the recovered materials have been taken into case records for further investigation,” the police spokesperson added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/hizbul-terrorist-involved-in-bjp-workers-murder-killed-in-gunfight-police-101640372125213.html
25-12-2021||India||Decision on UP elections after review next week: CEC||The election commission would examine the Allahabad high court’s observation to postpone Uttar Pradesh assembly polls after analysing the situation in the state, chief election commissioner of India Sushil Chandra said on Friday.“The Commission will visit Uttar Pradesh next week during which it will analyse the situation there followed by necessary actions on the same,” Chandra said, while addressing a press conference here.The Allahabad high court on Thursday urged the election commission to consider postponing the polls in Uttar Pradesh considering the increasing threat of Omicron variant of SARS-CoV-2 virus that causes Covid-19. In case the elections could not be postponed, the high court requested the poll body to stop political rallies, which witness large gatherings, and to direct the political parties to campaign through Doordarshan and print media instead.Assembly elections in five states, including Uttar Pradesh, Uttarakhand, Punjab, Manipur and Goa, are scheduled for early next year. Chandra, along with election commissioners Rajiv Kumar and Anoop Chandra Pandey, was in Uttarakhand for a two-day visit to review preparedness for the elections to 70-member legislative assembly.The CEC, citing the Covid-19 precautions, said the commission has identified various grounds and buildings where the candidates could hold their election rallies. “To ensure that social distancing is maintained in the rallies amid Covid-19 scare, the commission has identified 601 grounds and 277 buildings across Uttarakhand for holding rallies. Their details would soon be put online so that the candidates can book them as per their requirement,” Chandra said, adding the venues would be given on first come first serve basis. Chandra also announced that the commission has decided to increase voting period by one hour in Uttarakhand, considering the difficult terrain in the hill state. “Under a move which would be commenced from Uttarakhand, the ECI has decided to increase the voting period by one hour due to the difficult terrain in many areas of the state posing difficulty for the voters to reach the polling booths. Under this the new voting period would be from 8am to 6pm instead of 8am-5pm,” Chandra said, after concluding the two-day visit to Himalayan state.The CEC said candidates that have criminal background “will have to reveal details about the ongoing criminal cases against them before the public”.“Those candidates would have to get the details of their cases published thrice in newspapers. They will also have to share the details on news channels. Besides, the onus will also be on the political parties to do the same exercise for their candidates having criminal background. They will have to inform the voters, the reason behind fielding a candidate with criminal background so that they know what sort of candidates are contesting before exercising their franchise,” said Chandra. “Social media will also be strictly monitored to check posts related to hate speech or any sort of discrimination, if any, so that proper action can be taken by the commission.” The poll body has also decided to take strict measures to stop liquor, drugs or freebies being offered to the voters to influence them, which “vitiates the election process”, the CEC said. He added that the commission would monitor all airports, airstrips and intra-and-inter-state crossings to curb such activities.“Expenditure observers will also be appointed in the state during elections to monitor the expenditure by various candidates on poll campaign,” Chandra said. The commission will also make arrangements to ensure each polling booth has a reduced capacity of 1,200 voters instead of 1,500 at present, the CEC said. “This has been done to ensure proper social distancing during the voting. Due to this move the ECI will set up 623 more polling booths taking the total polling booths in the state to 11,447. With the total 81.43 lakh (roughly 8.14 million) registered voters in state, on an average, there would be at least 700 voters at each polling booth,” said Chandra. Uttarakhand will also have 100 polling booths managed completely by women while five polling booths will be managed by differently abled officials, Chandra said. “Of the total 81.43 lakh voters, 66,648 are differently abled, 1.43 lakh are above 80 years of age and 93,935 voters are servicemen,” Chandra said.“Among them, the ones who are 80 plus, would be given a facility to cast their vote through ballot paper at their home only, for which the electoral officer would go to their places. The political parties will be informed about it and proper videography will be done to ensure the secrecy and transparency of the whole process. Similarly, the servicemen voters would also be able to cast their votes through ballots,” Chandra said, adding that the “Commission will take all necessary steps to ensure an unbiased, transparent, free and fair elections”. The CEC on Thursday had met representatives of different political parties in Uttarakhand, the state’s chief secretary and director general of police.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/decision-on-up-elections-after-review-next-weekcec-101640371882728.html
25-12-2021||India||5 arrested for attempt to extort ₹1 crore from MoS Mishra: Police||Five people were arrested in Delhi and Noida for allegedly trying to extort at least a crore from Union minister of state Ajay Kumar Mishra Teni on Friday, Delhi Police said. The accused – four of whom were arrested from Noida and one from Delhi – allegedly made at least four to five voice over internet protocol (VoIP) calls to the minister last week, they added.According to police, Mishra in his complaint on December 17 alleged that he received around four to five calls from unidentified people who claimed to have “incriminating” videos related to the Lakhimpur Kheri violence case in which his son, Ashish, is facing murder charge along with 12 others.Ashish is the main accused in the incident in which an SUV allegedly rammed into four farmers and a journalist in Tikunia area of Lakhimpur Kheri on October 3. In the ensuing violence, two Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) workers and the driver of the SUV were killed.“The minister informed police that the five men were blackmailing him. Following his complaint, a case was registered at North Avenue police station,” an officer said, seeking anonymity. The officer added that they have approached Uttar Pradesh Police to check the criminal record of the four accused from Noida. Police, however, said they are yet to recover any videos related to the incident from the five accused. Another officer, on condition of anonymity, said all the accused were adults. While two of them were students of Class 12, the other two worked in call centres. The fifth accused ran a call centre in Noida.Those arrested were Amit Kumar, Ashwani, Amit Majhi, Kabir Verma and Nishant. All the accused in 21 and 26 age group. Kumar and Verma are the mastermind behind the calls, police said. HT tried to contact the minister for a comment but could not get one immediately. Delhi Police spokesperson Chinmoy Biswal confirmed the arrests and said a probe into the matter is underway.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/5-arrested-for-attempt-to-extort-rs-1-crore-from-mos-mishra-police-101640371881443.html
25-12-2021||India||Kapurthala case not of sacrilege: Channi||There is no evidence that a man who was lynched by a mob for allegedly trying to desecrate a Sikh flag at a gurdwara in Kapurthala earlier this week had attempted to commit sacrilege, Punjab chief minister Charanjit Singh Channi said on Friday.The caretaker of the gurdwara has now been arrested on the charge of murder, and nearly 100 unidentified people have also been booked in the case, government officials said.The man, yet to be indentified but said to be in his twenties, was beaten to death at the gurdwara in Nizampur village of the district on December 19. Gurdwara caretaker, Amarjit Singh, alleged that he saw the victim “disrespecting” the Nishan Sahib, the Sikh flag.Doctors who conducted the post-mortem examination of the deceased found 30 injuries on his body, including multiple stab wounds.The incident, which came a day after a man was killed over a sacrilege bid at the Golden Temple in Amritsar, sparked strong outrage in the state -- both from people who were angered by the man’s alleged sacrilege attempt, and by those who stressed that politicians across party lines were not criticising his public lynching.Punjab goes to the polls early next year, and sacrilege has been a burning issue in the state ever since a series of incidents alleging disrespect to the Guru Granth Sahib, the Sikh holy book, were reported in the state in 2015.Channi said the investigation has revealed the story behind the case was different from what was being propagated earlier. “We did not find any sacrilege attempt or any evidence to back it. One person ran the gurdwara. This thing has moved to murder and an inquiry is on,” the CM said.Jalandhar range inspector general of police Gurinder Singh Dhillon and Kapurthala senior superintendent of police Harkamalpreet Singh Khakh briefed reporters after the gurdwara caretaker’s arrest. Calling it a “well-planned conspiracy”, Dhillon confirmed that there was “no visible sign of sacrilege till now”.“The youth was brutally murdered as part of a well-planned conspiracy which we are not able to detect yet. Amarjit planned everything and gathered his associates [for the lynching]. Many of them have not been identified yet,” he said.“There are videos and photographs (of the day of the incident). Since an SHO was present (police reached the gurdwara when the victim was being beaten up), he will be able to identify them during investigation and due course of law will follow,” said Dhillon.A pistol, from which two shots were fired on Friday with the intent to kill the man, has also been recovered, he said, adding that at least 25 people in the mob that thrashed the victim were armed.Section 302 (murder) and 120-B (criminal conspiracy) of the Indian Penal Code (IPC), and relevant sections of the Arms Act have been added in the first information report (FIR), Dhillon said, adding that a medical board has taken the victim’s samples for DNA testing to ascertain his identity.Police initially filed a case against the deceased under Section 295-A (hurting religious sentiments) based on the complaint filed by the gurdwara caretaker.Police suspect that the victim came to the gurdwara with the intention of committing theft, said the official said.The man was cremated on Thursday eveningafter nobody came to claim the victim’s body, said senior medical officer (SMO) Narinder Singh.Giving more details about the accused, the Jalandhar IGP said that Amarjit Singh came to Kapurthala in 2008.He was earlier booked in a car theft case in 2016, but the police failed to establish his role and subsequently filed a closure report which was accepted by the court in 2019, Dhillon said.Amarjit’s claim that the man attempted sacrilege was found to be contradictory after a video surfaced on social media on Sunday, where some Sikh leaders were questioning the deceased and Amarjit admitted that the deceased did not commit sacrilege with the Guru Granth Sahib. In another video, he was heard alleging that the deceased was sent “by someone from Delhi and was given money for executing the desecration”. HT has seen both the videos.With PTI inputs
25-12-2021||India||Variant watch: UK govt study backs lower Omicron severity risk||The government of UK has now corroborated what three studies found last week: the Omicron variant is significantly less likely to send people to the hospital. In its latest technical briefing on Sars-CoV-2 variants, released late on Thursday, the UK Health Security Agency (UKHSA) said there was a 50-70% reduced risk of hospital admission for Omicron infections compared to the Delta variant. In an accompanying risk assessment that UKHSA released, it said the reduction in risk “is likely to be partly a reduction in intrinsic severity of the virus and partly to protection provided by prior infection”. “We cannot confidently quantify the relative contributions of these two factors at present. Even at the reduced hospitalisation risk observed, the combined growth advantage and immune evasion properties of Omicron have the potential to lead to very high numbers of admissions to hospital,” it added, reiterating a warning that experts all over the world have said.But the findings are now consistent in four studies, and they indeed offer hope for some cautious optimism. The first study was from South Africa, where government experts found an up to 70% lower risk of hospitalisation for people with Omicron variant compared to those who had a Delta infection. The second study was by the University of Edinburgh, which had a wide range indicating significant uncertainty in its findings, but the risk of hospitalisation among Omicron infections was reduced by at least 48% and up to 81%. The third study was by the Imperial College of London, which found a 45-50% reduction of risk on average (including people with vaccines and past infection). Crucially, this study estimated the intrinsic severity (relevant for unvaccinated, previously uninfected people) could be 0-30% lower.UKHSA, as the others, said the estimates were still preliminary. “These analyses are preliminary because of the small numbers of Omicron cases currently in hospital and the limited spread of Omicron into older age groups as yet. There is insufficient data to comment on severity of illness once in hospital or mortality,” the risk assessment document said.More insight into vaccine hit...A crucial new detail that the UKHSA report adds to the understanding of the Omicron variant is that vaccine boosters (the UK uses mRNA doses for boosters) begin to wane from one month onwards and show as low as 30-50% efficacy from 10 weeks after the third doses. “This waning is faster for Omicron than for Delta infections,” the technical briefing document said. But it added that protection against severe disease and death is likely to continue. “There are insufficient severe cases of Omicron as yet to analyse vaccine effectiveness against hospitalisation, but this is expected to be better sustained, for both primary and booster doses,” it said.Experts told HT on Thursday that vaccine efficacy against severe disease is likely to be helped by how vaccines train what is known as the cellular immunity. T cells, part of this immunity, retain a more durable ability to find and kill cells infected with Sars-CoV-2, even if it is of the Omicron variety. The other component seen as key is what is known as humoral immunity, which has antibodies. These antibodies bind to the virus before they infect cells. Lab studies earlier this month discovered that Omicron has heavily mutated in regions that antibodies typically bind to, but not in regions that T cells recognise to destroy them. Thus raising the theoretical hope that even if an infection is not prevented, which is the job antibodies, an Omicron disease will mostly remain mild or asymptomatic – as has been reported anecdotally....and into reinfections ratesAs reported in the other studies, and expected since the new variant is more resistant to antibodies that will also include those from a past infection, Omicron is more likely to cause a reinfection than other variants. “The population reinfection rate has increased sharply and disproportionately to the number of first infections. 9.5% of Omicron infections have been identified to have previous confirmed infections, which is likely to be a substantial underestimate of the proportion of reinfections. The first infections of the individuals with Omicron reinfections occurred in both the Alpha and Delta waves and are likely to have been undetected if in the first wave,” the technical briefing document said.Here, too, the risk of hospital admission in people who had a prior infection is likely to be lower than their chances of being infected in the first place. The UKHSA report pointed to the relevant finding by the Imperial College researchers, who concluded “the reduced risk of hospitalisation in those previously infected estimated as 55 to 70%”
25-12-2021||India||Delhi hate crime: Man abducted, genitals cut by wife’s family; cops suspended||Police are searching for at least 10 people for attempted murder after they attacked a man, amputated his genitals, and left him in a critical condition on Wednesday night for marrying a woman from their family without their consent.The victim was allegedly abducted shortly after the couple reached the Rajouri Garden police station to seek police protection fearing threats from the woman’s family. Relatives of the man who was attacked have accused police personnel of helping the assailants and handing the couple over to the attackers.“As of now, we are not in a position to confirm or deny that the couple was abducted from outside the police station. Also, the allegations of the man’s family that the police deliberately handed over the couple’s custody to the woman’s family members is a matter of probe. The couple had arrived at the Rajouri Garden station on December 22 and filed an application for police protection. What happened thereafter is being probed,” said additional deputy commissioner of police (west) Prashant Gautam.Two police personnel, including an assistant sub-inspector (ASI), were suspended on Friday after the initial inquiry suggested some lapses on their part while handling the matter. Two women from the woman’s family, including her grandmother, were arrested on Friday. At least 10 others, including her parents, are still absconding, the officers said.The victim, whose identity is being protected due to the nature of the attack, has been admitted to the AIIMS Trauma Centre. Both the victim and the accused, however, belong to the Sansi tribe and there is no caste or religious angle to the hate crime, police said.“They should have killed my son if they really wanted to punish him for marrying their daughter. Leaving him alive to spend his entire life with this shame is a trauma that my son may not be able to face. How will he show his face in society? I fear he will kill himself to avoid the humiliations and social stigma,” said the man’s mother.A readymade garment hawker by profession, the man lives with his mother and four brothers at their home in TC Camp, Raghubir Nagar, which falls under the jurisdiction of the Rajouri Garden police station.On December 11, at around 7.30am, the man left home, the family said. Around 7pm on December 22, one of brothers of the victim received a call from the police, summoning the family after informing him that the man was there with his newly wedded wife. By the time the victim’s family reached the police station, the couple had left.“The police personnel told us that they allowed the couple to leave as they were adults and were eligible for the marriage without their families’ wishes. The two had told them that they tied the knot at a temple in Jaipur, where they spent 10 days. At that time, the police did not tell us that the woman’s family members took them both from the police station,” said the victim’s mother.Around 11pm the same night, the victim’s brother was called by someone from the woman’s family, asking them to take him back from their residence in Sagarpur in south-west Delhi.One of the siblings who reached the spot found the victim lying in a drain next to the woman’s house, with his private parts severed and injury marks all over his body.Additional DCP Gautam said the victim’s family did not call the police even after finding him in a seriously injured condition. The police were informed by Safdarjung hospital authorities on December 23, a day after the crime.“At least a dozen family members were involved in the crime. We registered a case and arrested the woman’s grandmother and aunt as they were also involved. Raids are being conducted to nab other absconding family members,” said Gautam, adding that action will be taken if any police personnel of the police station were found at fault in handling the entire matter.
25-12-2021||India||China sending Tibetan kids for training, indoctrination: Intel||Chinese authorities have begun sending Tibetan children to special camps to be indoctrinated in a Sinicised worldview and given basic military training in order to prepare them to be inducted into militias amid the standoff with India on the Line of Actual Control (LAC).Though most of the Tibetan children at these camps are teens, there are reports that some as young as eight or nine years have been sent to the indoctrination facilities, people familiar with the matter said, citing intelligence reports and intercepts from Indian security agencies.The indoctrination is also aimed at overcoming resistance within the local population to the People’s Liberation Army’s (PLA) efforts to recruit more Tibetans, the people added.Earlier this month, the Tibet Action Institute issued a report that said Chinese authorities in Tibet have set up a wide network of boarding schools for Tibetan children to separate them from parents, and reduce their exposure to their own language and culture. The report estimated that up to 900,000 Tibetan children aged six to 18, and an unknown number of four- and five-year-olds, are in the state-run schools.“The schools function as sites for remoulding children into Chinese nationals loyal to the CCP. Removed from their families and communities, students must study primarily in Chinese, are barred from practising their religion, and are subjected to political indoctrination,” the report said.The reports from Indian security agencies suggest children are being sent to special camps to indoctrinate them with a Sinicised worldview that disregards Tibetan Buddhist values and prepares them to be soldiers, the people said.Recent reports have pinpointed at least two camps where Tibetan children aged nine to 14 years are being provided basic military training and indoctrination in order to prepare them for induction into militias. Some 400 Tibetan children were imparted basic military training, including handling weapons, at Nyingchi training camp, located in an area opposite India’s Arunachal Pradesh state, the people said.Almost 200 Tibetan youth, mostly below the age for recruitment into the military, were shifted from a training camp in Shiquanhe to Gar Gunsa in Tibet Autonomous Region (TAR) in November, the people added.The people pointed out that the move to send children to camps where they are given military training contravenes international conventions against the recruitment of children in war zones or into militias.These conventions include the Optional Protocol to the Convention on the Rights of the Child on the Involvement of Children in Armed Conflict, or the child soldier treaty, adopted by the UN General Assembly in 2000, the Paris Principles on Involvement of Children in Armed Conflict 2007 and instructions passed by Unicef, all of which state that no one below the age of 18 can be recruited into any form of military organisation.As first reported by Hindustan Times in June, China’s military has raised new militias comprising Tibetan youths in the strategic Chumbi Valley in TAR as part of enhanced efforts to recruit more Tibetans. Since last year, the People’s Liberation Army (PLA) has held recruitment drives across TAR to rope in more locals and there are also plans to raise a Special Tibetan Army Unit.Newly recruited Tibetan youth have now been deployed along the LAC in areas such as Demchok, Chepzi and Galwan Nala, the people said.The people said that Chinese authorities are attempting to recruit more Tibetans in order to offset the disadvantages of posting ethnic Han soldiers at high altitudes, especially in areas under the Western Theatre Command, which is the main PLA formation responsible for the border with India.The Tibetan Centre for Human Rights and Democracy also concluded in a recent report that Chinese authorities now believe the first responder troops at high altitudes need to be Tibetan, who can function effectively in areas with low oxygen. “In turn, that means not only recruiting Tibetans willing and able to confront the Tibetans of the Indo-Tibetan Border Force, but also ensuring the loyalty of their Tibetan families and communities,” the report said.There have been numerous reports of PLA officers and troops being affected due to prolonged exposure to high altitude, the harsh terrain and adverse weather conditions during the standoff with India that began in May 2020. There have also been reports of Chinese troops suffering from psychological and severe health issues. Despite several rounds of military and diplomatic talks, the two sides have been unable to agree on disengagement at several friction points in Ladakh sector.
25-12-2021||India||70% Omicron cases are asymptomatic: Govt||A government analysis of 183 of the 358 known Omicron variant Covid-19 cases in India found that 70% of the infected are asymptomatic and the rest have mild symptoms, health ministry officials said on Friday.A little over 90% of the cases for whom vaccination status was known had taken a full course of their shots, and 61% of the cases were in men, the analysis showed. Taken together, the trends fit findings in other countries – some of which the Union health ministry cited – of the variant causing a significant number of breakthrough infections after vaccination, but mostly manifesting in a mild or asymptomatic manner.“Regarding infection with Omicron, it does not necessarily lead to severe symptomatic clinical disease. In India, about a third of all detected cases were mildly symptomatic and the rest were asymptomatic; therefore, the treatment for Omicron-infected symptomatic individuals remains the same. It does not change from that for Delta or Alpha or even Beta,” said Balram Bhargava, director general, Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR).“The predominant strain in India is Delta; including in recently identified clusters. Therefore, we need to continue with the same strategy of Covid-appropriate behaviour and ramping up the vaccination,” Bhargava added.The 358 positive Omicron cases have been reported from 17 States and Union Territories so far, according to the health ministry data. Of this number, 114 have recovered.To be sure, the large share of vaccinated people among confirmed Omicron infections is because of a testing bias -- testing, even of asymptomatic cases and genome sequencing is targeted at international travellers, most of whom are vaccinated since countries generally seek proof of vaccination or impose strict quarantine rules on foreign arrivals.Union health secretary Rajesh Bhushan, who opened the briefing, said that of the 183 Omicron positive cases analysed, 121 had a foreign travel history and 44, with no travel history, were close contacts.“Gender wise, 39% of these analysed omicron positive cases were women and 61% were men,” said Bhushan.“Seven people were unvaccinated, and two were partially vaccinated. Sixteen people were ineligible for vaccination. Vaccination status of 73 persons is unknown,” he added.The Union government has not identified any community transmission case of Omicron variant infection yet, although the government has begun efforts to send more random samples for genome sequencing, which determines the variant.Globally, 108 countries have reported 151,368 Omicron cases and there have been 26 deaths, the data released by Bhushan said. India has not reported any deaths in this category yet.Experts said while India needs to worry because even a small percentage of infections could mean large numbers getting infected, there are tools that can be relied on to fight the variant.“We have tools that we did not have earlier such as drugs and vaccines that can be quickly updated if needed,” said Gagandeep Kang, one of the country’s top vaccine experts and senior faculty, Christian Medical College, Vellore.At the briefing, Bhushan elaborated on the pre-emptive preparations that have been made. “Based on experience of the first and second Covid surge that the country saw, there are more than 1.8 million (1,810,083) isolation beds ready as of now; almost 500,000 oxygen supported beds; nearly 140,000 ICU beds; 24,057 paediatric ICU beds; and 64,796 non-ICU paediatric beds. Apart from this, with the help of emergency Covid response package-II that has a sum of ₹23,123 crore, states are preparing 96,913 additional oxygen supported beds, 20,475 ICU beds, and 9,574 paediatric ICU beds,” said Bhushan.The official added that one of the specific focus areas of preparations was supply of medical oxygen in hospitals to treat critically ill patients that government is focusing on. “Medical oxygen supply is another important issue even though in the global experience so far, and South Africa in particular, Omicron positive cases have not required additional medical oxygen support. However, we need to be vigilant, and proactive; therefore, we have made appropriate arrangements,” said Bhushan.“During the first Covid wave, total medical oxygen requirement in a day shot up to 1,000 metric tonne; in the second wave it rose to 10,000 metric tonne, which was a ten-fold increase in demand. And because of the collective efforts of the Union government and the state governments, we were able to address that. Today, we have created a capacity of 18,800 metric tonne of medical oxygen per day,” he added.Bhushan also said the country is recording a steady increase in vaccination numbers, another crucial tool in the fight against Covid-19. So far, 89% of the adult population has received at least one dose of a vaccine, and 61% is fully vaccinated.But, there are still at least 11 states that have vaccinated fewer number of beneficiaries than the national average, for both first and the second dose.“It is a significant achievement that 89% of the adult population has received at least one vaccine dose; and 61% is fully protected — they have received both the doses. Nineteen states have first dose coverage of at least 90% of their eligible population, which is more than the national average. However, the cause for concern for us are the 11 states and Union territories where the first and second dose coverage is less than the national average. We have engaged with these states on a continuous basis; and last such review was yesterday (Thursday) wherein it was discussed how to increase the coverage,” said the health secretary.On introducing booster dose, and starting vaccination in children, the health ministry reiterated its stand that it will go by the opinion of technical experts based on scientific evidence.“In Parliament, and outside of it, government of India has clearly articulated the position that we would be governed by science and scientific evidence on deciding on the need and timing for an additional dose and for lowering the age of vaccination. Our stand remains the same,” said Bhushan, while adding that a booster was not a silver bullet for the pandemic.“We are reviewing all scientific data from across the world as well as from India, which includes T-cell response, antibody response with a particular vaccine, with another vaccine, and how long it persists, and how long it persists after infection. Taking all those into consideration, we are deliberating and we shall be formulating our policy,” said Bhargava, who is one of the experts on the technical committee.
25-12-2021||India||Om Birla expresses concern over ruckus in Parliament, state assemblies||Lok Sabha Speaker Om Birla on Friday expressed concern over “continuous ruckus” and “pre-planned disruptions” during proceedings in Parliament and state assemblies.“The way in which dignity and decency are decreasing inside Houses is a cause of worry. We all need to collectively think about this. We need to make the assemblies the places for discussions and debates,” he said while addressing the Assam legislative assembly during a day-long visit.There should be agreements and disagreements, but the expectations of the public should be reflected in the Houses, Birla said, adding that elected representatives should also articulate the ideologies they represent.“Obstructing proceedings in a pre-planned manner and not allowing the House to function is not part of our democratic traditions. It is my appeal to you to make the state assemblies centres of good debate and discussions, but not turn them into centres of ruckus.” The speaker said he has raised the issue in Lok Sabha and discussed it with leaders of all parties.Birla also launched the Assam Legislative Assembly Digital TV at a programme in the central hall of the legislature.Addressing legislators, Birla said that governments come and go, but the responsibility of strengthening and upholding the traditions of democracy lies with them. He also urged elected representatives to set a good precedent in the Lok Sabha and state assemblies so that it percolates down to panchayats and municipalities. “On the 75th anniversary of our Independence, we need to make efforts to uphold the dignity of our democracy with high-level discussions and debates. I am hopeful we will all work collectively towards that goal.”Stating that pluralism and diversity give strength to India’s democracy, Birla added that despite diverse cultures, languages, food habits and dress, democracy has kept Indians united.“Citizens have been kept at the centre of our election process. Today, we can take pride that elections in our democracy are impartial and unquestionable. That is why after 17 general elections and over 300 assembly polls, the smooth transfer of power has been the strength of our democracy,” he said.“We have seen that in some democracies across the world, smooth transfer of power does not always happen. It is the strength of our constitution due to which we can say with pride that we believe in governments elected by the people,” the speaker added.
25-12-2021||India||Mines supplying stones for Ram Mandir auctioned for ₹245 crore||Rajasthan has earned a revenue of ₹245 crore by auctioning 38 mining plots at Banshi Pahadpur in Bharatpur district from where red sandstones are being supplied for the construction of Ram Mandir in Ayodhya. Additional chief secretary (mines and petroleum) Subodh Agarwal said the government earned 17 times more revenue than the reserve price. He added two of the plots fetched over 42% higher money. Agarwal said that mining plots cover an area of about 230 hectares.The auction was completed in two phases from November 10 to December 3 through the Centre’s e-platform.A mining department official said 120 hectares in Banshi Paharpur have been reserved for Rajasthan State Mines and Minerals Limited, a state government undertaking. “With the start of legal mining in this area, according to a rough estimates, 10,000 people will get direct and indirect employment,” he said.Sandstone was earlier illegally mined in Bansi Paharpur.
