26-12-2021||India||Karnataka launches anti-narcotics campaign||Karnataka chief minister Basavaraj Bommai urged the youth in the state to join the state government in its war against narcotics, adding that the strictest punishment will be given to those selling drugs in and around college campuses and those using them. He was speaking after launching a state-wide campaign against narcotics organised by the Home Department of the state government in collaboration with a Kannada news daily.“Karnataka would be completely freed from the drug menace with cooperation from the youth,” he said.“Energy is another name for the youth,” Bommai added and called upon the youth to harness this energy to build a bright future for themselves and bring laurels for the state.Emphasizing the need to eradicate the drug menace from the state, he said that he had instructed the police to install CC cameras around all prominent colleges. “Similarly CC cameras should be installed within the college campuses and hostels too.”Karnataka has declared a war against drugs. State tops the country in the quantity of drugs seized and destroyed. “We will wage a relentless war against drugs. Some foreign nationals staying in Bengaluru have been found to be engaged in drug peddling. Stringent action is being taken against them. NDPS act is being used to crush the drug menace. Dark Web has been penetrated for the first time in Karnataka. Drug supply from abroad is being prevented,” Bommai said.He urged the youth to register themselves to be part of the campaign against drugs. The Chief Minister termed those involved in the narcotics business as traitors and assured that they would be dealt with sternly.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/karnataka-launches-anti-narcotics-campaign-101640543204204.html
26-12-2021||India||Surya triggers political row with ‘ghar wapsi’ remark||South MP and Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) leader Tejasvi Surya have triggered a political slugfest after he called for a ‘Ghar Wapsi’ of people who converted from the Hindu faith to other religions as a way to protect and review the religion. Speaking on Saturday at the Udupi Krishna Mutt, the young MP continued with his style of communally provocative speeches amid concerns over the state government’s controversial anti-conversion bill.“Those people who have left their mother religion and have for various socio, political and economic reasons throughout India’s History. Those who have gone out of the Hindu fold must be brought back in whole, brought back to the mother faith, to the Hindu faith,” Surya said during his over one-hour long speech in the coastal district.Surya did not stop there with his speech, which went on to attack the ideas of other religions.“Christianity and Islam are not mere religions. They are political imperial ideologies, and Hindus should understand this,” he said.He added that it was essential for Hindus to understand “who their enemies are”. “The first thing we need to do, identify who is trying to wipe our religion from the face of the earth. This is essential for survival for Hinduism and the Hindu race,” he said.The speech attracted adulation from the hard right and criticism from the larger society.“If everyone has a #GharWapsi as desired by the BJP, where exactly will they fit them in the varna system or will all be considered as Brahmins by default? That would be an interesting proposition for #GharWapsi,” Priyank Kharge, former minister and Congress legislator from Kalaburagi said in a post on Twitter.“And these persons “brought back” will be casteless, I assume? This whole Hinduism is under threat is a ploy by the Hindutva brigade to reestablish the caste hierarchical society,” Karti Chidambaram, Congress MP from Tamil Nadu, said. The statements come at a time when there have been attacks against the Christian community in Karnataka, which under the Basavaraj Bommai-led BJP government, has been trying to implement the contentious laws that are core to the beliefs of its ideological parent, RSS.These include the recently mooted anti-conversion law, anti-cattle slaughter legislation and the special marriages act or which the right-wing calls ‘love jihad’.There have been similar hate speech allegations against prominent seers and other politicians from across the country, adding to communal tensions in the country.A video of prominent Hindu seers making provocative remarks in an event in Haridwar, Uttarakhand, between December 17-19, has gone viral on social media.Another speech by a controversial politician, Asaduddin Owaisi had made provocative remarks during an election speech in Uttar Pradesh.“Please remember, Yogi will not always be the Chief Minister. Modi will not be the Prime Minister forever. We Muslims will not forget your injustice. We will remember this injustice. Allah will destroy you through his strength. Things will change. Who will come to save you then? When Yogi will return to his mutt and Modi will retreat to the mountains, then who will come?” Owaisi said, attracting sharp criticism.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/surya-triggers-political-row-with-ghar-wapsi-remark-101640543202961.html
26-12-2021||India||Tenures of Karnataka CMs marred by uncertainty||The Bharatiya Janata Party’s (BJP) overdrive to dispel any speculation on leadership change in Karnataka has been more counterintuitive as news of an imminent replacement of Basavaraj Bommai gathers steam, largely on account of its own doing.Leaders dismissing any change of chief minister “on camera” are also often the ones speaking “off the record” on an imminent change that shows that growing divide within the saffron outfit in Karnataka.“This news (about Bommai’s exit) is a figment of imagination. I feel this is a conspiracy to create confusion, problems in the state politics and to defame the BJP government,” Nalin Kumar Kateel, the state BJP president, told reporters in Bengaluru on Saturday.Though it remains to be seen if the BJP will indeed make a gamble and replace Bommai before the 2023 assembly elections, a closer look at the state’s political history throws some insight into the uncertain reign of chief ministers since the formation of Karnataka in 1956.Between 1956 and today, there have been a total of 21 chief ministers who have occupied the post in 29 terms over 63 years (excluding around 26 months of president’s rule), making it an average of 3 years per person or just around 1000 days in office.Only three chief ministers – S Nijalingappa, D Devaraj Urs and Siddaramaiah – have completed a full term in office, though the likes of Ramkrishna Hegde have completed over five years in office in three consecutive terms.SM Krishna may well have been on this list, but he had decided to go in for early elections, after which the Congress came up short and had to depend on the JD(S) to form the government in 2004. Dharam Singh was named the chief minister then.Senior BJP leader and a record four-term chief minister, BS Yediyurappa, has had one stint for two days and another lasting just one week.Jagdambika Pal, who became the Uttar Pradesh chief minister for a day after the 1998 elections, holds the record for the shortest term in office across India. Pawan Kumar Chamling, who governed the state of Sikkim for five terms, is the longest-serving chief minister with over 24 years of any Indian state after Independence.“This is the reality of coalition politics in Karnataka,” Dr Vinod MJ, political analyst and faculty at Christ (Deemed to be University) said.“How coalitions have evolved in Karnataka and the instability surrounding these coalitions is also a reflection of weak leadership also,” he added.Though there have been stalwart leaders in Karnataka, few have managed to keep a complete hold on their respective parties. The Congress dominance in Karnataka was challenged when Hegde formed the first non-Congress government in the state in 1983. This came about soon after when Urs challenged Indira Gandhi and carved out a faction from Congress.One analyst pointed out that a long reign in the state is almost inversely proportional to the strength of the party’s central leadership in New Delhi. Siddaramaiah completed his full term in office when Congress across the country was waning.The BJP has been no different, despite the heavily centralised decision-making culture under Prime Minister Narendra Modi and Amit Shah, who were forced to make difficult and reluctant choices like in the case of Yediyurappa to not upset the caste balance, analysts said.“Bommai is neither an asset nor a liability to the party,” said one Bengaluru-based analyst, requesting not to be named. The analyst added that this made him easily dispensable.Though Bommai is not originally from the BJP, the leader has made almost every attempt to fit into the plans of the saffron outfit, including proposing and implementing contentious laws like anti-cattle slaughter, anti-conversion, special marriages act (love jihad) and anti-CAA measures.But the recent allegations of corruption, including the Bitcoin scandal, commission scam, poor electoral performances and mismanagement has put the BJP in a fix whether it must continue with Bommai or make changes before more damage is done.Yediyurappa continues to be a cause for concern as the 78-year-old was forced to step down from the top chair, making the BJP wary of any inkling to bring down the saffron outfit in the state as he did in 2013.For the BJP, Karnataka is a beacon of hope as it is the only state in the south where the party has any real presence and considers it a gateway to the south.The focus, however, remains on Bommai.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/tenures-of-karnataka-cms-marred-by-uncertainty-101640543201599.html
26-12-2021||India||Night curfew imposed across Karnataka as Covid cases increase||The Karnataka government on Sunday imposed fresh restrictions, including night curfew and a complete ban on any large gatherings in public places across the state as a preventive measure to contain the growing number of covid-19 infections, state health minister K Sudhakar said on Sunday.The decision comes a day after Karnataka reported seven more cases of Omicron infections, taking the tally in the southern state to 38.“From December 28 onwards, for about 10 days, we have called (imposed) a night curfew, invoking section 144 from night 10 pm to the next day morning 5 am,” Dr K Sudhakar, Karnataka’s minister for health, family welfare and medical education said in Bengaluru.The announcement came after chief minister Basavaraj Bommai chaired an urgent meeting with ministers, senior government officials and members of the technical advisory committee (TAC) on covid-19 in Bengaluru to impose “preventive” measures to contain the growing number of infections.“From 30-12-2021 to 02-01-2022 the restaurants/hotels/clubs/pubs will function with 50% of their seating capacity strictly adhering to COVID appropriate behaviour. All staff members of the said entities compulsorily possess COVID 19 negative RTPCR report and will be fully vaccinated with 2 doses of COVID 19 vaccine, “according to the new guidelines issued on Sunday.The decision to impose restrictions with barely a week to go before New Year’s eve has irked hotels and other business establishments who were looking to make up for losses incurred during similar restrictions the whole of last year and long durations earlier this year.“The government has got its revenues as spirits are sold in several places and the budget targets are achieved. But those who are dependent on alcohol licence and even veg restaurants... What should they do and how to recover losses? We were not given any concessions in anything?” Govindraj Hegde, president of the Karnataka Wine Merchants Association, said.He said that during the time around New Year’s, businesses are trying to not make profits but to contain growing losses.The Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) government has been criticised for its knee-jerk reactions that have impacted lives and livelihoods. Interestingly, there were no seating capacity restrictions on cinema theatres mentioned in the order.“All gatherings, meetings, conferences, including marriages etc, from 28-12-2022, should strictly limit the number of participants to 300 people only and COVID appropriate behaviour shall be strictly enforced during the event, the responsibility to enforce the same lies with the organisers,” according to the order.The fresh curbs have heightened fears of a relapse into restrictions on movement in the new year.“We have curbs on all kinds of functions (events) for the New Year (celebrations),” Sudhakar said.He added that there would be a complete ban on all parties and events with large gatherings and DJ nights or celebrations in public places.The state registered at least 348 new Covid-19 infections in 24 hours, the state health department said in its bulletin on Sunday. The worrying part is that the number of recoveries at 198 is lower than the number of new infections, taking the active case count to 7418, according to the health department bulletin. Three more people died due to the virus, taking the death toll to 38312 in the state so far, and the case fatality rate stood at 0.86%. After Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s announcement on Saturday, Sudhakar said that the state government would also commence vaccination for children between the ages of 15 and18 from January 3. He said that there are around 4.3 million kids who fall between this age group in the state.The state government will also administer booster or preventive doses for healthcare and frontline workers, persons above 60 years of age and others with comorbidities from January 10, the minister added.Sudhakar said that Karnataka has achieved around 97% coverage with the first dose and 75% in the second dose. Around 4.5 million persons have yet to take the second jab in the state.“There shall be intensive patrolling and surveillance at all bordering districts adjoining Maharashtra and Kerala states to prevent the spread of COVID 19, particularly Omicron variant in the state,” according to the order.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/night-curfew-imposed-across-karnataka-as-covid-cases-increase-101640543142061.html
26-12-2021||India||At 66, Lorraine More wins gold for India in powerlifting||PUNE Age is just a number for Lorraine More (66), who has won a gold medal for India by lifting 165kgs in the ongoing Asian Classic and Equipped powerlifting and bench press championship, in Istanbul, Turkey in the masters 3 category (60-69 age group).The aim on how to keep bone density issues away after the age of 60 brought More, to the world of powerlifting – a journey beginning with lifting tiny two-kilogram dumbbells at her home, More now lifts weights of 165kgs with ease and she aims for bigger and better.“It is a myth that after the age of 50 women cannot lift heavyweights. For women everything is possible and their body has the power to stay fit and stronger even after the age of 60. I just want to show all women what they are capable of,” said More, from Istanbul who is now getting ready to achieve another gold medal in the classic powerlifter act on Monday.For her first international gold medal, More lifted 165 kg – Bench press (30kg), squat (60kg) and deadlift (75kg) in the equipped power lift squad category.More won individual gold medals in all three categories and also earned overall gold medals.“When I started training, I had never thought of entering a competition, it was my son Rohan who was getting trained by Omkar Chincholkar, along with them I also started training.“In eight months, we saw her improvement and capability of lifting weight and we thought of giving it a try to a powerlifting competition. We focussed on building strength, mobility and flexibility and she has not been even injured once in the last two years,” explains Omkar Chincholkar, owner of Omfit Health and Fitness Solution.So far, the journey of powerlifting is the golden path for More as she has won eight gold medals in the district, state, national and international tournaments.“When I first competed in the district championship, I won gold which gave me more confidence and after that, I kept improving my performance. Along with Omkar, I got help from senior coach Girish Binjwe and both are the reason for what I have achieved today,” said More who had planned to participate in the Asia Pacific powerlifting championship in Taiwan in 2020, but Coivd-19 restrictions made her wait longer to achieve an international medal.Rohan, who himself has tried powerlifting is on the moon after what his mother has achieved. He said, “It was her dream to represent India in the international tournament and winning the gold medal in debut overseas tournament is the best thing that has happened.”The tournament is organised by the international powerlifting federation, the Asian powerlifting federation.Senior coach Binjwe said, “She always had the determination to perform better. This attitude has helped her to achieve success.”Lorraine and son Rohan, jointly owns Japalouppe, an equestrian academy spread over 19 acres in the outskirts of Pune which has 63 horses.Difference between powerlifting and weightlifting*In powerlifting the focus is to lift as heavy as possible in a single plane of motion, so squat, bench or deadlift.*In weightlifting there are two movements, snatch and clean and jerk, and they are executed much faster.*In weightlifting the difference is that people, the competitors, are judged on not only how much they can lift but on their technical skill and the control of the lift too.*Powerlifting (bench press only) is a Paralympic sport while weightlifting is an Olympic sport||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/at-66-lorraine-more-wins-gold-for-india-in-powerlifting-101640542904898.html
26-12-2021||India||I am 24-Carat Congressman, not upset with party: Ghulam Nabi Azad||Ghulam Nabi Azad Sunday put to rest all speculations about his possible exit from the party, calling himself a “24 Carat Congressman” and saying he was not upset with the party, but was instead working for unifying and uniting its workers.The former chief minister has been holding public rallies in Jammu and Kashmir over the past nearly two months and was seen accompanied by his loyalists including senior party leaders and former ministers who recently resigned from their party posts in a revolt against J&K Congress president G A Mir.Talking to reporters after addressing a public meeting in the border belt of Khour on the outskirts of Jammu, Azad, however, said reforms are a dynamic process and imperative for every party, society and the country as a whole for the benefit of people.“Yes, I am a Congressman. Who told you I am not? 24 ‘Carat’ Congressman. How does it matter if 18 Carats are challenging 24 carat?” Azad said, responding to questions about the speculations of his possible exit from the party like former Punjab chief minister Amarinder Singh.Azad, who was among the 23 Congress leaders who had sought an organisational overhaul last year, said he is not displeased with the party.“Those dividing parties only see divisions. We are the ones who are linking people. We are forging unity (in the party ranks) as we are for unification,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/i-am-24-carat-congressman-not-upset-with-party-ghulam-nabi-azad-101640542600259.html
26-12-2021||India||ASI, chowkidar booked for demanding ₹50,000 bribe from liquor smuggler’s wife; both held||A criminal case was registered against an assistant sub inspector (ASI) and a chowkidar for allegedly demanding ₹50,000 as bribe from the wife of a liquor smuggler in Rohtas.The case under Section 7 of the Prevention of Corruption Act and 120 B of the Indian Penal Code was registered against ASI Dinesh Prasad and chowkidar Satyendra Paswan with Nauhatta police station on Saturday on the application of Deputy SP Saroj Kumar Sah.They have been arrested and sent to judicial custody, superintendent of police Ashish Bharti said on Sunday.After an audio clip of some policemen demanding the amount from a woman for not implicating her in a liquor recovery case, turned viral on social media platforms, the SP on December 19 formed a probe team under the Deputy SP.During the probe, the woman was identified as Kusum Devi, wife of liquor smuggler Ravi Chaudhary of Baulia village under Nauhatta police station limits. The policemen demanding bribes were identified as ASI Dinesh Prasad and chowkidar Satyendra Paswan who had made calls from their mobile phones to the woman.The woman confirmed the demand for a bribe for not implicating her husband in the liquor recovery case. The mobile call records of the policemen also confirmed the allegations, SP Ashish Bharti said.The ASI and chowkidar were suspended for demanding bribes and departmental proceedings were initiated for further action. Sub inspector Sanjay Kumar Verma, SHO of Nauhatta police station was transferred.A criminal case was registered against them after detailed investigations and they were arrested, SP Bharti said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/asi-chowkidar-booked-for-demanding-rs-50-000-bribe-from-liquor-smuggler-s-wife-both-held-101640542305949.html
26-12-2021||India||Naveen Patnaik says BJD does not have a boss in Delhi, vows to reduce poverty||Asserting that the Biju Janata Dal (BJD) does not have a “boss in Delhi”, Odisha chief minister Naveen Patnaik on Sunday said his government would reduce its poverty rate to 10 per cent in the next five years.Addressing party workers and leaders on BJD’s 25th foundation day, Patnaik said unlike opposition parties such as the Congress and BJP, BJD doesn’t have a boss in Delhi. “Whatever we do is for the people of Odisha, who are our boss. Behind the success of BJD was the dream of the people for a prosperous and strong Odisha. The party will work for the next 100 years with the support of all residents of the state,” said Patnaik through video conferencing.Patnaik said BJD is the only party whose popularity is growing with each passing day and which has 1 crore of the 4.5 crore people of Odisha as its members. “Born with the vision of the legendary Biju Patnaik, the BJD has now turned into a social movement. The party is a symbol of the trust and belief of 4.5 crore people of Odisha,” he said.Stressing his government’s success in bringing down poverty, Patnaik said that Odisha has undergone a sea change since 2000 and the poverty rate of the state has come down from 63 per cent to 29 per cent and over 80 lakh people have been brought above the poverty line.“Odisha will create history by further reducing the poverty rate to 10 per cent in the next five years. Our government will take all measures to achieve this goal,” he said.As per the NITI Aayog’s National Multidimensional Poverty Index (MPI) 2021 report released last month, Odisha is among the top-10 states with a significant share of the population living under poverty. With 29.35% of its population being multidimensionally poor as per the MPI Baseline Report, Odisha ranked 9th in poverty in the country.While Bihar topped the chart in poverty with 51.91% of its population multidimensionally poor, Kerala has the least poverty with only 0.71% of its population multidimensionally poor.As per the MPI baseline report, 37.26% of the population in Odisha are deprived of proper nutrition while 70.43% of the state’s population did not have proper sanitation and 20.97% did not have access to clean drinking water. More than 55.81% of the population did not have proper houses.Patnaik said that in terms of food grain production, Odisha has become third in the country from primarily being a buyer from other states. He added that Odisha led the country in disaster management, and has even been praised by the United Nations and Niti Aayog among others for its exemplary work.The chief minister said Odisha has received a whooping over ₹4 lakh crore investments during the Covid-19 pandemic period which is the highest in the country. “The Smart Health Card has been able to instil a sense of confidence among the people,” the Chief Minister said in his speech to the party leaders.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/naveen-patnaik-says-bjd-does-not-have-a-boss-in-delhi-vows-to-reduce-poverty-101640540740370.html
26-12-2021||India||Need to protect adolescents, two-third Covid deaths in 12-18 age group: Task force head||Children between the age of 12-18 years behave very much like adults and almost two-third of deaths related to Covid-19 have happened to those belonging to this age group.Covid-19 task force chairman NK Arora said adolescents need to be protected as they are mobile and their risk of getting infected by the virus remains high.Also read | Vaccination for 15-18 years: Only Covaxin likely to be administeredDr Arora’s comments came a day after Prime Minister Narendra Modi said in a televised address to the nation that vaccination against coronavirus for children between 15-18 years will start from January 3, while a "precaution dose" for healthcare and frontline workers would be administered from January 10.Dr Arora further said that there is no special effort required in the implementation of the vaccination programme for adolescents.There is no special effort required in the implementation of the vaccination. Immunization of these children can be started in a short period w/o specific preparation. It's a 2-dose schedule given at a 4-week interval; dosage requirement is the same as the adults: Dr. N K Arora“Immunisation of these children can be started in a short period without any specific preparation. It is a two-dose schedule given at a four-week interval. The dosage requirement will be the same as adults,” Dr Arora was quoted as saying by news agency ANI.The government’s decision to expand the vaccination drive in the wake of rising Covid-19 cases linked to the Omicron variant of the virus.More than 61 per cent of India's adult population has received both doses of the vaccine. Similarly, about 90 per cent of the adult population has received the first dose of Covid vaccine.The cumulative COVID-19 vaccine doses administered in the country has exceeded 141 crore, according to the health ministry.(With inputs from agencies)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/need-to-protect-adolescents-two-third-covid-deaths-in-12-18-age-group-top-doc-101640539972724.html
26-12-2021||India||Vaccination for 15-18 years: Only Covaxin likely to be administered||Bharat Biotech's Covaxin is likely to be the only vaccine available for children between the age of 15 and 18 years, though Zydus Cadila's vaccine ZyCoV-D has also been approved by the country's apex drug controller body for administration among children, news agency PTI reported. ZyCoV-D was the first vaccine to have received the nod for administration on children but it may not be part of the immunisation programme starting from January 3 as it has not yet been introduced even for adults.ZyCov-D, the world's first DNA-based needle-free vaccine received emergency use authorisation from the drug controller on August 20. On December 25, Bharat Biotech's Covaxin received the go-ahead from the drug controller and on the same day, PM Modi announced India's vaccination programme for children.Amid Omicron rise, curbs brought back in Delhi, Mumbai, Bengaluru | 10 pointsChairman of India's COVID-19 Working Group of the National Technical Advisory Group on Immunisation (NTAGI) Dr NK Arora on Sunday said Covaxin has shown a very good immune response in children in the trials. In an exclusive interview to news agency ANI, Dr Arora said, "Children between the age of 12 and 18 years, particularly those in the age group of 15 to 18 years, are very much like adults. Our research within the country also says that almost two-thirds of the deaths which occurred due to COVID in India are within this age group. So, this decision was mainly taken to protect the adolescents.""There are two other advantages of immunizing adolescents. One is that they are quite mobile, they have to go to the school colleges and their risk of getting an infection, particularly in the light of Omicron, is present. Secondly, many times these adolescents get infection into their households where elderly and those with comorbidities can get infected. So, in view of all this, the country has decided to introduce vaccination for children between 15 to 18 years," Dr Arora said.Covaxin has, in fact, shown better results in children than adults, Dr Arora said. "The point is that we have a vaccine, which is approved for children. Covaxin has shown that it has a very good immune response in children in trials. In fact, it is slightly better than adults. Secondly, this vaccine is a safe vaccine, and even local effects like pain, swelling in the arms is much less as compared to adults. We would like to offer this protection to our adolescents," he said."Although the disease's effects are much milder, but as we know many schools have opened. A lot of parents are still not very confident in sending their children to schools. So this vaccination drive will also be giving confidence to them. I would say it's a great New Year gift for our adolescents," Dr Arora added.(With agency inputs)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/vaccination-for-15-18-years-only-covaxin-likely-to-be-administered-101640538117761.html
26-12-2021||India||Centre forms panel, headed by Vivek Joshi, to study AFSPA removal from Nagaland: Report||The ministry of home affairs on Sunday set up a high-level committee, headed by Vivek Joshi, a secretary-rank officer, to look into the possibility of withdrawing the Armed Forces (Special Powers) Act from Nagaland in the wake of rising tension in the state over the killing of 14 civilians earlier this month.Joshi, the registrar general and census commissioner of India, will head the five-member committee, a report by news agency PTI said.Hours ago, the Army again expressed regret over the "sad and unfortunate" incident. It said the probe is progressing expeditiously and all efforts are underway to conclude it at the earliest.The Army also assured that action would be taken in the case in accordance with the law to "secure justice for all" and urged the people of the state "to be patient and wait for the findings of the Army inquiry".Earlier in the day, the Nagaland government, in a statement, said its chief secretary and director general of police (DGP) will be part of the central panel.The committee was set up three days after Union home minister Amit Shah held a meeting with Nagaland chief minister Neiphiu Rio and his Assam counterpart Himanta Biswa Sarma over the matter in Delhi.The December 23 meeting was also attended by Nagaland deputy CM Y Patton and former chief minister of Nagaland TR Zeliang. The panel will submit its report within 45 days.The new committee will look into the possibility of the withdrawal of the AFSPA in Nagaland, where it has been operational for decades, and a decision will be taken on the basis of its recommendations. The controversial Act gives sweeping powers to the armed forces to conduct operations and arrest anyone without any prior warrant. It also gives immunity to the forces if they shoot someone dead.Meanwhile, officials said that disciplinary action is also likely to be taken against the Army personnel, who were directly involved in the botched counter-insurgency operation in Nagaland's Mon district in early December, after a fair inquiry.Protests have been going on in several districts of Nagaland demanding withdrawal of the AFSPA, ever since an Army unit killed the 14 civilians in Mon mistaking them as insurgents.The Nagaland government will provide government jobs to the next of kin of the deceased 14 people.On December 6, Shah informed Parliament that "a team of 21 para-commandos of the Indian Army laid an ambush for insurgents in Mon district of Nagaland on December 4 but "it turned out to be a case of mistaken identity". He also expressed regret over the incident in which civilians were killed by security personnel.Shah had said that a Special Investigation Team (SIT) has been constituted and directed to complete the investigation within one month.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/centre-forms-panel-headed-by-vivek-joshi-to-study-afspa-removal-from-nagaland-101640538322099.html
26-12-2021||India||UP businessman Piyush Jain who stashed ₹200 crore arrested||Perfume businessman of Uttar Pradesh with an alleged link with the Samajwadi Party Piyush Jain has been arrested on Sunday, days after crores of rupees in cash were seized from his residence and factory in Kanpur. The income tax raid on the premises of the businessman became a talking point after photos of stacks of cash wrapped in the yellow paper were released by the income tax department. According to the director-general of GST Intelligence, Ahmedabad, a total of ₹187,45 crore cash was recovered during the search while another ₹10 crore was seized later. This includes ₹5 crore recovered from his factory in Kannauj and another ₹5 crore from his residence. Unaccounted sandalwood oil, perfumes worth crores have been seized from Jain's factory. According to reports, when the DGGI and Local Central GST team reached Jain's premises on day one of the searches, he ran away and came back after two hours on several calls by investigating officers.Chief minister Yogi Adityanath said Jain had links with the Samajwadi Party as Jain was the one to have introduced Samajwadi perfume ahead of the elections in the state. "For the past two-three days, continuous raids are being conducted on the premises of a person belonging to the SP. Rupees 257 crore in cash and several kilograms of gold and silver was recovered. This money belongs to the poor. There is also evidence of how it was looted," Adityanath said.During the interrogation, Jain said the cash belonged to his relatives and other family members though could not give any convincing evidence. Even the relatives whose names were taken by Jain denied the claim."We want to know the source of such huge cash. Why such a huge amount of cash was collected, where was this cash supposed to be used, from where this cash came. Was the 143, Anandpuri, Kanpur, where ₹177.45 crore cash was recovered a collection centre of Perfume sale or it was used for some other purpose. The investigation will be on until it reaches its logical conclusion," an official told ANI early on Sunday.This is the biggest cash seizure in the history of the Central Board of Indirect Taxes and Customs, the apex body of the investigation agency Directorate General of GST Intelligence (DGGI) who is conducting the search||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/up-businessman-piyush-jain-who-stashed-rs-200-crore-arrested-101640538556772.html
26-12-2021||India||Amid Omicron rise, curbs brought back in Delhi, Mumbai, Bengaluru | 10 points||Metro cities of the country enter the last week of 2021 with several restrictions brought back to arrest the spread of Omicron, the latest variant of SARS-CoV-2. According to scientific projections, India's Covid-19 cases will increase in January and the peak of a likely third wave will arrive in the first week of February. Union health secretary Rajesh Bhushan will brief the Election Commission regarding the Omicron situation as five states -- Goa, Punjab, Uttarakhand, Manipur and Uttar Pradesh will go to the polls in 2022.Here are the top 10 developments1. Delhi government has decided to reimpose the night curfew from 11pm to 5am starting from Monday as Delhi reported 290 fresh Covid cases on Sunday, which was the highest since June 10.2. Karnataka on Sunday announced night curfew starting from December 28, which will continue for 10 days. The curfew will be from 10pm to 5am. There will be no New Year celebrations at pubs, restaurants and hotels in the state.3. Maharashtra on Sunday reported 31 new cases of Omicron, taking the tally of Omicron cases to 141, the highest in the country. Mumbai has 73 Omicron cases, including the 27 reported on Sunday.4. Kerala on Sunday reported 19 more Omicron cases, which took the Omicron tally of the state to 57.5. Madhya Pradesh reported its first cases of the Omicron variant on Sunday. Nine foreign returnees were found infected with this strain in Indore.Do Omicron patients need oxygen support, ventilator? Delhi doctor tells pattern6. Maharashtra has already announced restrictions that more than five people will not be allowed to gather between 9pm and 5am. The government has placed a cap on the number of people attending events.7. A new cluster outbreak has been reported in Maharashtra's Ahmednagar district after 48 students and three teachers of Jawahar Navodaya Vidyalaya tested positive for Covid.8. According to the health ministry's tally published early on Sunday, 422 Omicron cases were reported across 17 states and UTs, of which 130 people have recovered. The tally has gone up by the end of the day.9. In the coming days, the government will decide the modalities of its ‘precaution dose’ roll-out. Frontline workers and senior citizens with comorbidities will be eligible to receive this dose starting from January 10. 10. Children between the age of 15 to 18 years will also be given Covid vaccine starting from January 3.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/amid-omicron-rise-curbs-brought-back-in-delhi-mumbai-bengaluru-10-points-101640536615281.html
26-12-2021||India||Two people test positive for Omicron in Thane. They arrived from Nigeria||A 42-year-old woman and her 10-year-old son, who arrived from Nigeria on December 11, tested positive for Omicron in the Thane Municipal Corporation area on Sunday. The family is in institutional quarantine and their health is stable. TMC officials with the help of the Regional Transport office are tracing the taxi driver who dropped the family from the airport to Thane. According to Thane Municipal Corporation officials, the family of three returned to their residence at Thane’s Ram Maruti Road on December 11 from Nigeria. They were quarantined when mother and son had mild symptoms; however the father’s health was normal. “On December 18 they tested Covid-19 positive. We immediately sent their samples for genome sequencing, while the husband did not have any symptoms and he tested negative. There are no other close contacts or high-risk contacts of the travellers or their family other than the taxi driver who had dropped them from the airport to Thane. With the help of RTO officials, we are trying to trace the concerned taxi driver,” said Dr Prasad Patil, medical officer, Thane Municipal Corporation. The residence of the family has been sealed by the concerned authority as per Covid-19 protocol.Recently on December 23, a 40-year-old resident of Thane’s Ghodbunder Road tested Omicron positive. He had returned from Ghana on December 14 and had mild symptoms. He is the first Omicron case from Thane city.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/two-people-test-positive-for-omicron-in-thane-they-arrived-from-nigeria-101640535699806.html
26-12-2021||India||Rain lashes parts of Delhi, with light drizzle ensuing over adjoining regions||Rain has lashed parts of the national capital on Sunday evening.Light intensity rain/drizzle would occur over and adjoining areas of isolated places of Delhi, NCR (Gurugram, Manesar), Kurukshetra, Karnal, Gohana, Gannaur, Sonipat, Farukhnagar, Kosali, Sohana, Rewari, Narnaul, Bawal, Nuh (Haryana) Gangoh, Baraut (U.P.) Bhiwari, Tizara, Khairthal (Rajasthan) during the next 2 hours, said Indian Meteorological Department (IMD) on Sunday.It also said that light to moderate intensity rain would occur over and adjoining areas of isolated places of Delhi, North Delhi, North-West Delhi ( Kanjhawala), Meham, Rohtak (Haryana) and Kotputli (Rajasthan)."26/12/2021: 17:55 IST; Light to moderate intensity rain would occur over and adjoining areas of isolated places of Delhi, North Delhi, North-West Delhi ( Kanjhawala), Meham, Rohtak (Haryana) Kotputli (Rajasthan)," said another tweet from IMD.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/rain-lashes-parts-of-delhi-with-light-drizzle-ensuing-over-adjoining-regions-101640533876609.html
26-12-2021||India||Ghulam Nabi Azad says he is ‘24 Carat Congressman’, working for party unity||Veteran Congress leader Ghulam Nabi Azad on Sunday said he was a “24 Carat Congressman" and that he was not upset with the party though there could differences of opinion, adding that he only working to unite its workers.Putting to rest rumours of his exit from the grand old party, the former Jammu and Kashmir chief minister, who has been holding public rallies across the Union territory over the past two months, however, said reforms were a dynamic process and imperative for every party, society and the country as a whole for the benefit of people.Jammu | I'm a 24-carat Congressman, despite the difference in opinions: Congress leader Ghulam Nabi Azad at a rally at Khour, Akhnoor pic.twitter.com/7IAg55LCBNIn most of his recent rallies, Azad was seen accompanied by his loyalists, including senior Congress leaders and former ministers who recently resigned from their posts in a revolt against J&K’s state unit president GA Mir.Azad addressed a public meeting in the border belt of Khour on the outskirts of Jammu on Sunday. Later, while talking to reporters, he said, "Yes, I am a Congressman. Who told you I am not? 24 'Carat' Congressman. How does it matter if 18 Carats are challenging 24 Carat?" Azad said when asked about speculations over his possible exit from the party like former Punjab chief minister Amarinder Singh.Azad, who was among the 23 Congress leaders who had sought an organisational overhaul last year, said he was not displeased with the party."Those dividing parties only see divisions. We are the ones who are linking people. We are forging unity (in the party ranks) as we are for unification," he said.When asked about his call for reforms, he said reforms are needed in every party, every society and country."Reforms are an ongoing process and necessary in every party…the legislature is also a sort of reform. Many evils of the past are not there in the society today because of reforms," he said, adding the communalism and casteism prevalent in society today also need to be reformed.On a question about the prospects of Congress in the next assembly elections likely to be held after the delimitation exercise, Azad said people are the masters in a democratic set-up and defeat and win of any party is in their hands.He, however, added people across Jammu and Kashmir are "fed up" with the BJP because of rising inflation and growing unemployment.(With inputs from agencies)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/ghulam-nabi-azad-says-he-is-24-carat-congressman-working-for-party-unity-101640534284394.html
26-12-2021||India||Make CM Mamata Banerjee state’s governor, says Dhankhar||West Bengal governor Jagdeep Dhankhar, who went to north Bengal for a week-long visit, attacked the state government on Sunday suggesting that that the Bengal chief minister should be made the governor of the state. He was responding to a statement by state education minister Bratya Basu who had suggested on Friday that the chief minister should be made the interim chancellor of state-run universities. “You make the chief minister the governor also in addition to making her the chancellor,” Dhankhar said while speaking to reporters at Bagdogra airport in north Bengal. Earlier this month, Kerala governor Arif Mohammad Khan had written to chief minister Pinarayi Vijayan expressing his disappointment over alleged political appointments in universities and urging the latter to amend the law and appoint himself as the chancellor. The Prime Minister is the chancellor of central universities; while the governor of a state is the chancellor of state-run universities. “It is high time to introspect whether we should continue with the colonial legacy of the Governor being the Chancellor of Universities just by the virtue of his post or we should nominate eminent scholars and educationists as Chancellors,” Basu had tweeted. Dhankhar said: “I was astonished that the education minister, who should have interacted with me, instead said that the chief minister will be made chancellor.” Dhankhar assumed charge on July 30, 2019. The acrimonious relationship between the governor and the TMC government has been in the news since September that year. It all started when, earlier this month, the governor had called a meeting of chancellors and vice-chancellors of private universities in the state in his capacity as visitor. Most of the vice-chancellors, however, didn’t turn up. An attempt to hold the meeting again on Thursday also fell through following which Dhankhar had attacked the state education department. “Education scenario @MamataOfficial worrisome as no Chancellor & VC of Pvt Univ turned up for meeting with Governor-Visitor. Shocking unionism,” he had tweeted. The state education minister, however, responded saying that the role of the Governor, as ‘visitor’ of private universities was only ceremonial and he has no controlling authority over them. “So, instead of meddling in their affairs, he would better mind his constitutional business. # stick to the Constitution please,” Basu had tweeted. BJP national vice-president Dilip Ghosh alleged that the Mamata Banerjee government is trying to turn the governor into a rubber stamp. “This is not good for the Constitutional setup,” Ghosh said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/make-cm-mamata-banerjee-state-s-governor-says-dhankhar-101640534739673.html
26-12-2021||India||What is ‘precaution dose’ for Covid? Which vaccine will be administered? What all we know||From January 10, India will be administering the ‘precaution dose’ of the Covid vaccine to frontline workers and senior citizens with comorbidities. At a time when the world is seeing the 4th surge of the Covid pandemic, India's Omicron cases are also rising with states imposing restrictive measures. The idea of a booster dose to strengthen the immunity against the emerging variants of SARS-CoV-2 has already been introduced in the world with several countries opting for it. However, India is not calling it a booster dose. As PM Modi made the major announcement on December 25, he called it precaution dose.Here is what we know about the precaution dose1. Dr RS Sharma, CEO of National Health Authority, said a comorbidity certificate will be required for senior citizens to get the precaution dose, news agency ANI reported.2. The government is likely to use the same list of comorbidity that was followed when the vaccination drive started in India in January this year.3. PM Modi in his speech on Saturday said the precaution dose will be administered to senior citizens after consulting with their doctors.4. According to reports, the gap between the second dose and this third precaution dose is likely to be 9 to 12 months.5. Which will be the vaccine for this precaution dose? Reports said these are the details that will be finalised in the next few days in consultation with the experts. The general opinion of health experts is that the third dose or the precaution dose should be different from the first two doses. But the government has not announced any mix and match policy yet.6. A booster dose certificate will be given to beneficiaries, RS Sharma said.The Indian Medical Association said if the government adopts a mix and match policy for the third dose, then the government should ensure the availability of Covaxin as the majority of people has taken Covishield in the first two doses.Precaution dose, third dose, booster dose: What are all theseThe aim of a third dose is to boost the immunity which is likely to wane 7-8 months after vaccination or previous infection. Some scientists have even pitched for an annual booster against the emerging variants of SARS-CoV-2. The World Health Organization is not very enthusiastic about booster doses, considering the global vaccination situation as many countries are far from reaching the 40% coverage target.(With agency inputs)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/what-is-precaution-dose-for-covid-which-vaccine-will-be-administered-101640533041426.html
26-12-2021||India||8 people test positive for Omicron in Madhya Pradesh’s Indore||Eight people from Indore have tested positive for the highly transmissible Omicron variant of Covid-19 on Sunday, the state’s medical education minister said. Madhya Pradesh medical education minister, Vishwas Sarang said, “Out of the total number of positive cases, six have been discharged after they tested negative. The remaining two cases are asymptomatic and have been admitted to hospital.” Contact tracing of at least 30 people, who came in contact with the returnees have been done, the minister said. Earlier, home minister Narottam Mishra said, “As many as 3000 people returned from foreign countries to Indore. The health department conducted RT-PCR tests of 1000 returnees and 26 tested positive for Covid-19 in four weeks. Their samples have been sent to Delhi for genome sequencing and out of the total, eight have tested positive for Omicron.”But MP Congress Committee president Kamal Nath attacked the state government for hiding the cases. “The Madhya Pradesh government should clarify how many people have returned from different countries in the past two months and how many of them tested positive for Covid-19. The state government should also clear what arrangements are being made to deal with such cases.” Kamal Nath said it was a serious issue and the state government should maintain transparency. In MP, the positivity rate has increased to 0.06% from 0.01% in the past month. MP has 232 active cases. On Saturday, 42 cases were found positive after 60,650 tests.
26-12-2021||India||News updates from HT: Experts answer if it is beginning of third Covid wave, and all the latest news||Here are today’s top news, analysis, and opinion. Know all about the latest news and other news updates from Hindustan Times.Third wave may start if cases keep on rising for two more weeks: ExpertsThe rise in the average daily cases in Mumbai this month has triggered one question- is it the beginning of the third wave already? Epidemiologists and health experts, who are closely monitoring the situation, said that if the rise continues for another two weeks, then the next wave has begun. Read more…Amit Shah says BJP will score chauka with fourth win in 2022 UP pollsUnion home minister Amit Shah on Sunday said the BJP, which won the 2014 and 2019 Lok Sabha elections as well as the 2017 Uttar Pradesh assembly polls, would score a chauka (boundary) and register its fourth victory in 2022 UP polls. Read more…Opinion | Democracy and the US-India relationshipBy most accounts, the Summit for Democracy hosted by United States (US) President Joe Biden earlier this month was a mess. Many rightly criticised the decision to invite or not invite certain countries: Why, for example, include Pakistan, which, in any case, chose not to officially participate in reported deference to China’s sensitivities, but not Bangladesh? Others thought the agenda was poorly thought through. Read more…Lyrics of Sunny Leone's Madhuban to be changed, following minister's warningFollowing Madhya Pradesh home minister Narottam Mishra's warning to Sunny Leone and the singers of the recently released music video Madhuban, music label Saregama said on Sunday that the company will change the lyrics. Read more…KL Rahul joins Sachin Tendulkar, Virat Kohli in elite list with magnificent century in CenturionIndian opener KL Rahul on Sunday scripted a massive feat during the opening day of the first Test against South Africa at the Centurion as he notched up his seventh Test century. Read more…Salim Khan assures Salman Khan 'completely fine' after snake bite incident but 'doctor has prescribed few meds'Salim Khan shared a health update about Salman Khan after he was bitten by a snake. The actor, on Sunday, was bit by a snake at his Panvel farmhouse on the outskirts of Mumbai. Read more…||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/news-updates-from-ht-experts-answer-if-it-is-beginning-of-third-covid-wave-and-all-the-latest-news-101640530119397.html
26-12-2021||India||Night curfew in Delhi from December 27 as city sees uptick in Covid cases||Night curfew will be imposed in Delhi from December 27 amid a rapid rise in coronavirus disease (Covid-19) cases, according to people familiar with the development. The night curfew will remain in force from 11pm to 5am.Delhi reported 290 fresh Covid-19 cases, the highest in six months, and one related death in the last 24 hours amid the spread of the Omicron variant. The positivity rate for Covid-19 tests rose to 0.55 per cent, according to data shared by the Delhi government's health department on Sunday.The new infections and death took the cumulative tally to 14,43,352 and 25,105 respectively. The overall active cases now stand at 1,103, of which 583 patients are in home isolation. Delhi has been witnessing a steady uptick in new Covid cases amid the spread of Omicron, triggering concerns over the healthcare system which got overwhelmed during the second Covid wave.Mumbai reports 922 fresh Covid cases & 2 deaths in 24 hours amid Omicron alarmSeveral states have tightened restrictions as Omicron cases continue to rise across the country, especially in Maharashtra and Delhi.Earlier this week, the Delhi Disaster Management Authority (DDMA) issued an order banning all cultural events and gatherings for Christmas and New Year celebrations in the national capital. The DDMA allowed restaurants, bars, and auditoriums to function at 50 per cent capacity while putting a ceiling of 200 people in gatherings related to marriage. It directed the officials to conduct surprise checks and take strict penal action against violators as per the law.“Since, wearing of mask is the most important weapon in fight against Covid-19, RWAs and MTAs should be advised not to allow their residents, shopkeepers and customers without mask in their respective areas/public places,” the order read.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/night-curfew-in-delhi-from-tomorrow-as-city-sees-uptick-in-covid-cases-101640526837419.html
26-12-2021||India||Lyrics of Sunny Leone's Madhuban to be changed, following minister's warning||Following Madhya Pradesh home minister Narottam Mishra's warning to Sunny Leone and the singers of the recently released music video Madhuban, music label Saregama said on Sunday that the company will change the lyrics. "In light of the recent feedback & respecting the sentiments of our fellow countrymen, we will be changing the lyrics and the name of the song Madhuban," it said, as reported by PTI."The new song will replace the old one across all platforms over the next 3 days," Saregama said.Narottam Mishra who made designer Sabyasachi Mukherjee withdraw his mangalsutra advertisement warned Sunny Leone and the singers of the music video to apologise and withdraw the video within three days. Failing to do this would attract action, the minister said.Soon after the warning, the company responded and said the video will be changed. Without referring to the minister's threat, the company said the decision is prompted by recent feedback."Some vidharmis are constantly hurting Hindu sentiments. The video 'Madhuban me Radhika nache' is one such condemnable attempt. I am warning Sunny Leone ji, Shaarib and Toshi ji to understand. If they don't remove the song after apologising in three days, then we will take action against them," Narottam Mishra said.  The song uses some words from a song from the 1960 movie Kohinoor, sung by Mohammed Rafi. Before Narottam Mishra, Mathura-based priests said they found the video objectionable and will go to court if no action is taken against the video. Akhil Bhartiya Tirth Purohit Mahasabha’s national president Mahesh Pathak said Sunny Leone through the video has maligned the prestige of Brijbhumi by presenting the song in a “derogatory manner”.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/lyrics-of-sunny-leone-s-madhuban-to-be-changed-after-minister-s-warning-101640525236137.html
26-12-2021||India||PM Modi to inaugurate Kanpur metro rail, attend IIT convocation ceremony on Dec 28||Prime Minister Narendra Modi will visit Kanpur on Tuesday to inaugurate the metro rail project and attend the convocation ceremony as the chief guest at the Indian Institute of Technology. PM Modi will inaugurate the 9-kilometre long completed section, from IIT Kanpur to Moti Jheel, of the Kanpur Metro Rail Project at around 1.30pm. The Kanpur Metro Rail Project, with an entire length of 32 km, is being built at a cost of over ₹11,000 crore.“Prime Minister will inspect the Kanpur Metro Rail Project and undertake a metro ride from IIT metro station to Geeta Nagar,” the PMO said.During the event, he will also inaugurate the 356-km-long Bina-Panki Multiproduct Pipeline Project, according to the prime minister’s office. The pipeline project, built at a cost of over ₹1500 crore, has a capacity of around 3.45 million metric tonnes per annum. The project is expected to help the region access petroleum products from the Bina refinery.Before the inauguration programmes, the prime minister will attend the 54th Convocation Ceremony of IIT Kanpur as the chief guest at around 11am. PM Modi will launch blockchain-based digital degrees, which will be issued to all the students during the convocation. The in-house blockchain-driven technology has been developed under the National Blockchain Project. Blockchain-based digital degrees can be verified globally and are unforgeable, according to PMO.Earlier this week, PM Modi took to Twitter to invite ideas for his upcoming speech at the convocation ceremony.“I look forward to being at @IITKanpur on the 28th of this month to address the convocation ceremony. This is a vibrant institution, which has pioneering contribution towards science and innovation. I invite everyone to share suggestions,” Prime Minister Modi tweeted.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/pm-modi-to-inaugurate-kanpur-metro-rail-attend-iit-convocation-ceremony-on-dec-28-101640523324684.html
26-12-2021||India||HT THIS DAY: December 27, 1962 — Swaran Singh wants all irritations ended; Rawalpindi talks open today Pakistan for priority to Kashmir question||Rawalpindi: All references to Kashmir were severely avoided by Sardar Swaran Singh, leader of the Indian delegation to tomorrow’s Indo-Pakistan talks, in his airport chat with newsmen after his arrival here aboard an IAF plane a little before noon. Sardar Swaran Singh was accompanied by Commonwealth Secretary Gundevia and six other delegates. A small crowd including Mr Z. A. Bhutto, head of the Pakistani negotiating team, had gathered to welcome them despite a drizzle. Recalling how the two outstanding irritants, the canal waters dispute and the border issue, had already been removed amicably in the three years since he last visited Rawalpindi, Sardar Swaran Singh stressed that an overall sett1ement at this stage would be “welcome not only to vast populations of our two countries, but also to men of goodwill and peace throughout Asia and Africa.” He said India was “entering these talks in all sincerity.” The fate of waiting for the other to take the first step would depend primarily on the urgency with which India was prepared to view the Kashmir issue. India’s attitude was formally conveyed by Sardar Swaran Singh in the evening when he separately called on President Ayub Khan, Foreign Minister Mohammad Ali and Mr Bhutto. Pak demand His impromptu statement at the airport indicated that his instructions were to discuss the entire gambit of the Indo-Pakistan relations without preconditions and to find “mutually satisfactory and beneficial” solutions for the “many unsolved problems” still festering relations between the two countries. Pakistan, on the other hand, has repeatedly declared, and this was reaffirmed today by its Foreign Office spokesman, that prior consideration must be given to the Kashmir question. Pakistan was prepared to discuss any proposal other than plebiscite though he denied that either India or Pakistan had been approached by friendly countries with any specific plan. He confirmed, however, that both the U.S. and British emissaries were received this afternoon by President Ayub Khan. Only with an unexpected degree of tact and persuasive diplomacy can both sides succeed in bringing the wide gulf separating them and reconcile the overflexible stand of India with the rigid attitude adopted by Pakistan. Sardar Swaran Singh later told a Press conference that India would consider and might agree to plebiscite as a solution of the Kashmir issue if the conference came to the conclusion, after discussing the views of both sides on the proposition, that it was the most suitable solution. No proposal for a solution of the problem including plebiscite was ruled out at the talks. In fact, he reiterated, there was no precondition to the talks.The aim of the talks, he said, was to find an honourable and mutually satisfactory solution to the issue. Sardar Swaran Singh allayed Pakistani fears that India wanted to divert the course of the conference to issues other than Kashmir. He declared that the delegation had come to discuss Kashmir and not to dump it in other issues. If certain other issues between the two countries could not be discussed at the current talks or in a series of talks, India would wish to discuss them later, he said. He denied that it was the intention of the Indian Government to prolong the discussion in order to delay the settlement of the Kashmir issue. Charter of talks Sardar Swaran Singh said the “charter” of the talks was a joint communique issued by President Ayub Khan and Prime Minister Nehru to make renewed efforts to resolve Kashmir and other matters. It would be their endeavour at the talks to reach agreement on as many points as possible before President Ayub and Prime Minister Nehru meet, he said in reply to a question. The Pakistan Government spokesman said Pakistan looked forward to India offering a solution better than plebiscite for the Kashmir dispute. He was asked whether the Pakistan Government had any solution other than plebiscite. The spokesman said the question of plebiscite had been dragging for a long time and the Indian Government had stated that it was no longer possible to hold a plebiscite. The Pakistan Government, he said, had asked the Indian Government to tell them a better and more practicable solution and was looking forward to its reply. Asked whether Pakistan’s readiness to consider other solutions did not detract on her rigid adherence to plebiscite, the spokesman said that it obviously implied that the adherence to plebiscite was not rigid. Asked whether Pakistan would agree to attempting settlement of other differences with India along with the Kashmir issue, the spokesman said the joint communique referred to “Kashmir and other related matters.” Once this Kashmir question was solved it was bound to generate a better atmosphere for better relations. The settlement of other issues would then become much easier. He said in answer to another question that the words “other related matters” in the joint communique referred to matters relating to Kashmir and not any other matter affecting Indo-Pakistan relations.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/ht-this-day-december-27-1962-swaran-singh-wants-all-irritations-ended-rawalpindi-talks-open-today-pakistan-for-priority-to-kashmir-question-101640524598819.html
26-12-2021||India||Maharashtra school sealed after 48 students, 3 staff test positive for Covid-19||The number of Covid-19 cases at the Jawahar Navodaya Vidyalaya in Maharashtra’s Ahmednagar district has climbed to 51 from 19 on Sunday. These 51 patients include 48 students and three teachers, officials from the local administration said. The residential school has been sealed after the outbreak of the viral infection.Earlier last week, 19 students from the residential school in Parner tehsil had tested positive for the viral infection. Health officials said most of the students and teachers are asymptomatic. “So far, 51 people, including 48 students and three staff members, from the Jawahar Navodaya Vidyalaya have tested positive for the Covid-19 infection. All of them have been isolated and hospitalised. Most students are asymptomatic and their health is stable,” said Parner taluka health officer Dr Prakash Lalge. According to the local administration, all the students and staff members had to undergo RT-PCR tests. The residential school has over 400 students distributed across classes 5 to 12.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/maharashtra-school-sealed-after-48-students-3-staff-test-positive-for-covid19-101640524418546.html
26-12-2021||India||Tejasvi Surya calls for 'Ghar Wapsi' of Muslims, Christians; video goes viral||Bengaluru BJP MP Tejasvi Surya has called for the conversion of Muslims and Christians to Hinduism as this is the only way of Hindu revival. Portions of the speech that the MP delivered at Sri Krishna Math, Udupi, on Saturday have gone viral on social media. Tejasvi also tweeted the live speech. "Spoke on 'Hindu Revival' at Sri Krishna Math in Udupi today. After 2014, Bharat is finally decolonising itself after 70+ years of colonial hangover. Following centuries of being ruled by foreign invaders, Bharat is re-emerging as 'Vishwaguru'," Tejasvi tweeted.In his address, he said temples and mutts must set yearly targets to convert people who got converted for various reasons back to Sanatan Dharma. There is no other solution and we wonder whether it is possible because it does not come naturally to us, Tejasvi said. He said Islam and Christianity are not mere religions but are political imperial ideologies. These religions believe they are the supreme and that is the fundamental difference between these religions and Hinduism, the MP said. These faiths were propagated by wielding swords. https://t.co/gXWWZZytm4“The Hindu has been taken out from his mother religion. There is only one possible solution to address this anomaly. Those people who have left their mother religion and have for various socio-political, economic reasons over the course of India’s history have gone out of the Hindu fold must be brought back in whole, into the Hindu fold, brought back to the mother faith,” Tejasvi said.The video comes on the heels of Haridwar's Dharma Sansad videos which invited widespread outrage for the hate speeches by Hindu leaders. An FIR was also launched against the Dharma Sansad.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/tejasvi-surya-calls-for-ghar-wapsi-of-muslims-christians-video-goes-viral-101640522881826.html
26-12-2021||India||MP govt withdraws ordinance on panchayat elections, poll process cancellation likely||In the wake of the Supreme Court order staying the poll process on seats reserved for OBCs in the Madhya Pradesh panchayat elections, the state cabinet on Sunday decided to withdraw an ordinance brought to annul the process of delimitation and reservation rotation set by the previous government in 2019. The cabinet's decision to withdraw the ordinance is likely to pave the way for cancellation of the panchayat poll process in the state. The present BJP government in MP had brought the ordinance last month to annul the process of delimitation and reservation rotation set by the previous Congress-led government in 2019. On the basis of this ordinance, the panchayat election process was started as per the delimitation and reservation rotation of 2014. “After the Supreme Court's decision, the state cabinet has decided to request the governor to withdraw this ordinance,” MP Panchayat Minister Mahendra Singh Sisodiya told reporters. He accused the opposition Congress of scuttling the process by repeatedly going to the high court and the Supreme Court over the issue of delimitation and reservation rotation. “Chief Minister Shivraj Singh Chouhan is committed to provide reservation to the Other Backward Classes (OBCs),” the minister said.Notably, the Madhya Pradesh Assembly on Thursday unanimously passed a resolution, which stated that no panchayat polls will be held in the state without reservation for the OBCs. CM Chouhan, who is also the Leader of the House, proposed the resolution saying the state government wants every section of the society to get justice. The Supreme Court earlier this month stayed the poll process on seats reserved for OBCs in the panchayat elections in MP and re-notified these seats for the general category. The SC ruling came after Congress leader Manmohan Nagar, president of the Bhopal jila panchayat, approached the apex court pleading that the BJP government in Madhya Pradesh violated the constitutional provisions on reservation rotation and delimitation for the panchayat polls. A day after the SC's order, the State Election Commission (SEC) had decided to postpone the panchayat election process on the seats reserved for OBCs. Before the SC's order, a total of 155 posts of members of jila panchayats, 1,273 members of janpad panchayats, 4,058 sarpanchs, and 64,353 posts of panch were reserved for OBCs during this election process. On December 4, the SEC had announced polling for 859 posts of district panchayats across 52 districts in MP, 6,727 posts under 313 Janpad Panchayats, Sarpanchs of 22,581 village panchayats and 3,62,754 posts of Panch members will be held in three phases - on January 6, January 28 and February 16.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/mp-govt-withdraws-ordinance-on-panchayat-elections-poll-process-cancellation-likely-101640517225781.html
26-12-2021||India||‘Never said farm laws will be brought again’: Agriculture minister||Union agriculture minister on Sunday clarified that the government was not planning to bring back the contentious farm laws, which were recently repealed. He said that the Congress party was spreading rumours to cover up its failures.In a tweet on Sunday, Tomar said, “The government has no plans of bringing back the farm laws. Prime Minister Narendra Modi had decided to withdraw the agricultural reform laws to keep the honour of the farmers. The Congress is spreading rumours to cover up its own failures. The farmers should be beware of this.”While speaking at an event on Friday in Nagpur, the minister hinted that the farm laws could be reintroduced drawing sharp criticism from the opposition. He had said that the government took a step back and will “move forward again because farmers are India’s backbone”.At the event, Tomar said, “We brought agriculture amendment laws. But some people did not like these laws, which were a big reform... But the government is not disappointed. We took a step back and we will move forward again because farmers are India’s backbone. And if the backbone is strengthened, the country will get stronger.”His comments drew sharp criticism from the opposition. Congress leader Rahul Gandhi tweeted on Saturday, “The agriculture minister has insulted Modi’s apology — it is highly condemnable. If the anti-agro-farming steps are taken again, then there will be annadata satyagraha again...”On November 19, while apologising to the country, Prime Minister Modi announced that his government would withdraw the three laws, against which farmers were protesting at the borders of the national capital and other parts of the country for over a year.On November 29, both houses of Parliament passed the farm laws repeal bill.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/never-said-farm-laws-will-be-brought-again-agriculture-minister-101640519619765.html
26-12-2021||India||Covid vaccination for children ‘unscientific’: senior AIIMS epidemiologist||A senior epidemiologist at AIIMS who is the principal investigator of Covaxin trials for adults and children at the institute on Sunday termed the Centre's decision to vaccinate children against Covid "unscientific" and said it will not yield any additional benefit.Dr Sanjay K Rai, who is also the president of the Indian Public Health Association, said before implementing the decision, data from countries that have already started vaccinating children should be analysed.In an address to the nation on Saturday night, Prime Minister Narendra Modi announced that vaccination against COVID-19 for children in the 15 to 18 age group will start from January 3.This will reduce the worries of children going to schools and colleges and their parents, and boost the fight against the pandemic, he said, adding that the move is also likely to aid in normalisation of teaching in schools."I am a great fan of PM Modi for his selfless service to nation and taking right decisions at right time. But I am completely disappointed with his unscientific decision on children vaccination," Rai said in a tweet tagging the Prime Minister's Office.Elaborating his viewpoint, Rai said there should be a clear-cut objective of any intervention. The objective is to either prevent coronavirus infection or severity or death."But according to whatever knowledge we have about vaccines, they are unable to make a significant dent in the infection. In some countries, people are getting infected even after taking booster shots."Also, 50,000 breakthrough infections are being reported per day in the UK. So this proves that vaccination is not preventing coronavirus infection but vaccines are effective in preventing severity and death," Rai told PTI.He said mortality due to COVID-19 in susceptible populations is around 1.5 per cent, which means 15,000 deaths per million population."Through vaccination, we can prevent 80-90 per cent of these deaths, which means that 13,000 to 14,000 deaths per million (population) can be prevented," he added.Serious adverse events following immunisation are between 10 to 15 per million population, Rai said."So, if you do the risk and benefit analysis in adults, it is a huge benefit," he said.In the case of children, he said, the severity of infection is very low and according to data available in the public domain, only two deaths per million population have been reported."In this section (children), 15,000 (people) are not dying and keeping in mind the adverse effects also, if you do the risk and benefit analysis, then the risk is more than the benefits based on the available data," Rai explained."Both the objectives are not being fulfilled by initiating vaccination among children," he said.Few countries, including the US, started vaccinating children four-five months ago. The data of these countries should be analysed before initiating Covid vaccination for children, he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/covid-vaccination-for-children-unscientific-senior-aiims-epidemiologist-101640517308206.html
26-12-2021||India||News updates from HT: Rajnath says BrahMos production not to attack any country||Here are today’s top news, analysis, and opinion. Know all about the latest news and other news updates from Hindustan Times.'Want to manufacture BrahMos so that...': Rajnath Singh's warning in LucknowIndia wants to manufacture BrahMos missiles so that no other country has the audacity to cast an evil eye on it, defence minister Rajnath Singh said on Sunday. Stressing the need for maintaining nuclear deterrents, Singh said India is manufacturing the BrahMos missile and other weapons not to attack any country but to defend its people against “any nation with hostile intentions.” Read moreA ‘chauka’ on way: Amit Shah on BJP's feat in 2022 UP pollsStating that lawlessness prevailed in the state before the Yogi Adityanath-led BJP government came to power in 2017, Shah said criminals have fled the state since then. Read more Under Mission Sagar, INS Kesari delivers 500 tonnes of food aid to MozambiqueIt is the eighth such deployment under Mission Sagar and is being conducted in close coordination with the ministry of external affairs, and other central government agencies.Read more How does coronavirus reach brain? What causes long Covid? Scientists find answerScientists have found Covid RNA in multiple parts of the body, including in the brain for as long as 230 days after Covid onset. Read more 'It's the last throw of dice': Experts left puzzled as IND pick Ajinkya Rahane over Shreyas Iyer & Hanuma Vihari in XIIt came a surprise for former cricketers Aakash Chopra and Ajit Agarkar, who expected Shreyas Iyer or Hanuma Vihari to be part of India's playing XI in the series opener against South Africa in Centurion. However, that was not the case as both the batters were not considered in the playing XI and former vice-captain Ajinkya Rahane regained his spot in the lineup. Read more How relationship anxiety could play havoc with your love lifeRelationship anxiety may be one of the reasons you do not want to commit to your Mr Right.Read more||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/news-updates-from-ht-rajnath-says-brahmos-production-not-to-attack-any-country-101640515470417.html
26-12-2021||India||Terrorists hurl grenade at police post in J&K's Pulwama, two cops hurt: Report||Two policemen were reportedly injured after militants hurled a grenade at a police post in Pulwama district of Jammu and Kashmir on Sunday.The incident happened near a post office in Pulwama district, an ANI input said.The police control room in Pulwama confirmed the attack, but said they are yet to get more information on the same.Further details awaited.(This is a developing story)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/terrorists-hurl-grenade-at-police-post-in-j-k-s-pulwama-two-cops-hurt-report-101640517867253.html
26-12-2021||India||Centre to form panel to look into withdrawal of AFSPA in Nagaland, says Neiphiu Rio||Nagaland Chief Minister Neiphiu Rio informed on Sunday that the Centre would soon institute a committee to look into the withdrawal of the Armed Forces (Special Powers) Act (AFSPA) from the state. Speaking to the media in Kohima, the CM informed that a court of inquiry will initiate disciplinary proceedings against the army unit and personnel who were involved in the incident at Oting this month which claimed the lives of 13 civilians. The decisions were taken in a meeting held at New Delhi on December 23 with the Union Home Minister which was attended by Rio, Assam Chief Minister Himanta Biswa Sarma, Y Patton, deputy chief minister of Nagaland and TR Zeliang, leader of the Naga Peoples’ Front legislature party. Thanking Amit Shah “for taking up the matter with upmost seriousness”, Rio tweeted on Sunday urging “all sections to continue to maintain a peaceful atmosphere.” In a botched-up operation, 13 civilians were killed by 21 Para Special Forces of the Indian Army on December 4 at Tiru-Oting area in Mon district of Nagaland and another civilian was killed by security forces in Mon town on December 5 in a chain of related events which also resulted in injuring 35 people. There was massive outrage across Nagaland following the incident with protests by Naga organizations seeking fair inquiry into the incident and punishment for those responsible. On December 20, the Nagaland assembly adopted a five-point resolution denouncing the killings and demanding the repeal of the AFSPA from Nagaland and the northeast region. A joint press release issued by Rio, Patton and Zeliang on Sunday mentioned that the committee on AFSPA withdrawal would be chaired by additional secretary (northeast) in the Union home ministry and include Nagaland chief secretary and director general of Nagaland Police. “The committee will submit its report within 45 days and withdrawal of Disturbed Area and AFSPA from Nagaland will be based on recommendations of the committee,” the release said. It added that that the court of inquiry will take action against those army personnel “directly involved” in the Oting incident and action will be taken immediately “on the basis of fair inquiry”. “The identified people who will face the enquiry will be placed under suspension with immediate effect,” the release said. It also mentioned that the Nagaland government would provide jobs to the next of the kin of the deceased in the Oting incident. 
26-12-2021||India||Congress claims credit for booster jab announcement, slams Centre||Congress leader Rahul Gandhi, on Sunday, gave himself credit for the government’s decision to vaccinate children aged between 15-18 years by saying that the Centre has “accepted my suggestion”.Gandhi tweeted, “The central government has accepted my suggestion of a booster dose—this is the right step. The safety of vaccines and boosters will have to reach the people of the country. He added the hashtags, “BoosterJab #VaccinateIndia.”Wayanad MP’s response came a day after Prime Minister Narendra Modi announced, on Saturday, that India will start vaccinating children between 15-18 years from January 3, 2022, and “precaution dose” for healthcare workers and citizens aged 60 and above from January 10, 2022, amid the rising cases linked to the Omicron variant of the coronavirus disease.Within a few hours of Rahul Gandhi’s tweet, the Congress party organized a press conference and slammed the Centre for its handling of the pandemic given the possibility of a third wave in the first few months of 2022.During the second wave, “The lives of our countrymen were played. Just before a possible third wave, the lives of our countrymen are once again at risk,” said Congress General Secretary and spokesperson Randeep Surjewala. He added, “The tepid response to Omicron virus bordering on the directionless drift is even more alarming now,” deeming this as “criminal negligence”.Surjewala also demanded that the Prime Minister take accountability for his government’s actions. Providing official data, he said the government currently has 17.74 crore vaccines only, however, to inoculate the full adult population, 59.40 crore vaccine doses are needed. The Congress spokesperson also alleged that 40 lakh people have died during the second wave due to the “criminal negligence” of the government.Bharatiya Janata Party spokespersons were not available to comment on the matter.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/congress-claims-credit-for-booster-jab-announcement-slams-centre-101640517698474.html
26-12-2021||India||‘Warning Sunny Leone ji’: Madhya Pradesh minister asks to remove 'Madhuban' video in 3 days||Madhya Pradesh home minister Narottam Mishra, known for his conservating stance, on Sunday warned actor Sunny Leone and singers Shaarib and Toshi to apologise and withdraw their music video 'Madhuban mein Radhika, jaise jungle me nache mor' within three days. Or else, action will be taken against them, the minister said. "Some vidharmis are constantly hurting Hindu sentiments. The video 'Madhuban me Radhika nache' is one such condemnable attempt. I am warning Sunny Leone ji, Shaarib and Toshi ji to understand. If they don't remove the song after apologising in three days, then we will take action against them," Narottam Mishra said.Premiered on YouTube on December 22, the song had over 98 lakh views on YouTube till December 26.This is not the first objection on the way of Sunny Leone's new album. Mathura-based priests have already demanded a ban on the video as they found Sunny Leone's dance on this iconic song objectionable. “We will go to court if the government does not act against the actress and ban her video album,” said Sant Naval Giri Maharaj of Vrindaban.Akhil Bhartiya Tirth Purohit Mahasabha’s national president Mahesh Pathak said Sunny Leone through the video has maligned the prestige of Brijbhumi by presenting the song in a “derogatory manner”.Narottam Mishra on Sunday said the song has hurt the sentiments of the people as Hindus worship Maa Radha. Madhuban mein Radhika naache was originally sung by Mohammad Rafi for the 1960 film, Kohinoor. The Sunny Leone version is a spin of that iconic version using only the phrase Madhuban mein naache Radhika from the earlier one. In October this year, Narottam Mishra had issued a 24-hour ultimatum to designer Sabyasachi Mukherjee to withdraw his mangalsutra advertisement for its "objectionable and obscene" portrayal, following which Sabyasachi later withdrew the advertisement. A Karva Chauth advertisement featuring a same-sex couple was also withdrawn after Narottam Mishra's warning this year.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/warning-sunny-leone-ji-madhya-pradesh-minister-asks-to-remove-madhuban-video-in-3-days-101640516780461.html
26-12-2021||India||'Want to manufacture BrahMos so that...': Rajnath Singh's warning in Lucknow||India wants to manufacture BrahMos missiles so that no other country has the audacity to cast an evil eye on it, defence minister Rajnath Singh said on Sunday. Stressing the need for maintaining nuclear deterrents, Singh said India is manufacturing the BrahMos missile and other weapons not to attack any country but to defend its people against “any nation with hostile intentions.”“It has never been the character of India to attack any other country or grab even an inch of land of any country," Singh said. "We want to manufacture BrahMos on Indian soil so that no country has the audacity to cast an evil eye on India."Referring to Pakistan, Rajnath Singh said he doesn’t why the intentions of a neighbouring country that got separated from India sometime back, are always bad vis-a-vis India. It committed acts of terrorism in Uri and Pulwama, Singh added."And then our prime minister took a decision, and we went to the soil of that country and destroyed terrorist hideouts, and when there was a need for airstrikes, we did that successfully. We gave the message that if somebody dares to cast an evil eye on us, then not just on this side of the border, but we can go to the other side and hit them. This is India's strength," he said.The defence minister was in Lucknow to lay the foundation stone of the Defence Technologies and Test Centre and the BrahMos Manufacturing Centre. The BrahMos Manufacturing Centre is a modern, state-of-art facility in the Lucknow node of Uttar Pradesh Defence Industrial Corridor covering over 200 acres.The centre will consist of six subcentres: deep-tech innovation & startup incubation centre; design & simulation centre; testing & evaluation centre; centre for industry 4.0/digital manufacturing; skill development centre; and business development centre. According to the ministry, the manufacturing centre is expected to get ready over the next two to three years and manufacture 80-100 BrahMos-NG missiles per year.(With agency inputs)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/want-to-manufacture-brahmos-so-that-rajnath-singh-s-warning-in-lucknow-101640516239827.html
26-12-2021||India||‘People’s effort essential in fight against Omicron’: PM Modi||Prime Minister Narendra Modi stressed the importance of self-discipline and self-awareness in the fight against the new Covid-19 variant, Omicron during his monthly radio programme ‘Mann Ki Baat’ on Sunday.The PM said that scientists are constantly studying the new variant and the government is working on their suggestions. He said that citizens’ effort is crucial to defeating the global pandemic.He said, “We have to remember that a new variant of Covid-19 has already knocked on our doors… In such a situation, self-awareness and self-discipline are our strengths in the fight against this variant of Corona. Only our collective strength will defeat Corona and it is with this very sense of responsibility we have to enter into 2022.”This comes a day after the PM announced vaccination for children of ages 15 and above and booster doses to health care and frontline workers and people above the age of 60 with certain health conditions.Referring to the vaccination drive carried out in the country, Modi said, “Crossing the 140 million vaccine dose mark is an achievement of every Indian. This shows that every Indian has trust in the system; trust in science and in scientists; and is also a testament to the willpower of the people who are fulfilling their responsibilities towards the society.”In the 84th edition of his radio programme, the PM spoke about the recent helicopter crash in which CDS General Bipin Rawat, his wife and 12 defence personnel lost their lives. He paid tribute to Shaurya Chakra awardee Group Captain Varun Singh, the lone surviour who succumbed to his injuries a week after the crash, for his humility and effort to inspire young students.Referring to Group Captain Singh’s letter to his school principal after receiving the Shaurya Chakra, Modi said, “After reading this letter, the first thought that came to my mind was that even after reaching the pinnacle of success, he did not forget to nurture his roots. When he had time to celebrate, he showed concern for the generations to come…he did not boast of his valour, instead he referred to his failures, but talked about how he converted his shortcomings into his strength.”In the letter, which went viral on social media after Singh’s death, he wrote that “it is okay to be mediocre” and the performance in school is by no means the measure of things to come in life.The PM said that Swachh Bharat is a common theme in all the suggestions and messages received from people for the new year. He spoke about the individual initiatives of people to contribute to the Swachh Bharat initiative. He also listed out the various measures taken by the government departments and ministries to digitise old records, clear the junkyard and reuse it as a wellness centre, cafeteria etc.The PM lauded the Arunachal Pradesh Airgun Surrender Campaign to stop the indiscriminate hunting of birds. He said that about 1600 airguns have been surrendered.He also spoke about efforts by individuals and institutions to promote Indian culture and protect ancient art forms from extinction.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/peoples-effort-essential-in-fight-against-omicron-pm-modi-101640516558723.html
26-12-2021||India||Indore: Shivraj Singh Chouhan lays foundation stone of metro works||After being India's cleanest city and a smart city, Indore will soon become a metro city too, Madhya Pradesh Chief Minister Shivraj Singh Chouhan said on Saturday.He laid the foundation stone of metro works including 16 metro stations in Madhya Pradesh."Clean city Indore and smart city Indore, will soon become a metro city also. Metro will be established in a ring shape starting and ending at the Indore Airport with 16 stations in between, as a part of a ₹7,500 crore scheme," he said."The construction of the metro will also provide employment to a large number of people," he added.Chief Minister accused the Congress government in Madhya Pradesh led by Kamal Nath of delaying the work of the metro train."We started the work of metro train in Indore long ago but for a while, we were not in government and Dada (Kamal Nath) was the Chief Minister. He stopped the development work. Now we have come back, so the work of metro will also be move fast," he said.Chouhan said the government has decided to take the metro train or light metro from Indore to Sanwer and via Sanwer to Ujjain."I am giving instructions to start the survey for the project. Gradually, we will work to connect cities around Indore with metro," he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/indore-shivraj-singh-chouhan-lays-foundation-stone-of-metro-works-101640511131762.html
26-12-2021||India||A ‘chauka’ on way: Amit Shah on BJP's feat in 2022 UP polls||Union home minister Amit Shah on Sunday exuded confidence in the Bharatiya Janata Party's (BJP) performance in the Assembly election in Uttar Pradesh scheduled to be held early next year. He said the saffron camp’s victory will be another feather in the BJP's cap having consecutively won the general elections of 2014 and 2019 and the previous UP Assembly polls held in 2017.“The BJP succeeded in 2014, 2017, 2019 in UP and this would be 'chauka' (boundary) as the BJP will win for the fourth time,” Shah said while addressing the BJP's 'Jan Vishwas Yatra' rally in UP’s Kasganj.He also hit out at Bahujan Samaj Party (BSP) chief Mayawati and Samajwadi Party supremo Akhilesh Yadav for indulging in “caste and family-based politics”.“The past regimes of 'Bua-Babua' (Mayawati and Akhlesh Yadav) were regimes of caste-based and family based politics,” he said.Stating that lawlessness prevailed in the state before the Yogi Adityanath-led BJP government came to power in 2017, Shah said criminals have fled the state since then.Also read | Amit Shah launches Good Governance Index 2021; Gujarat tops composite ranking“Earlier people were afraid of sending their daughters to schools and colleges. Within four-and-a-half years, under the leadership of Adityanath, all the goons have fled from UP,” he said.The Union home minister also heaped praises on Prime Minister Narendra Modi for the inauguration of the Kashi-Vishwanath corridor earlier this month in his parliamentary constituency of Varanasi, built at an estimated cost of ₹900 crore. “Corridor of Kashi temple was lying barren since the time of Aurangzeb, but Modi changed it all in Varanasi,” he said.Shah also remembered former chief minister Kalyan Singh for his good governance and as a man who had given up his chief minister’s chair during the Ram Janmabhoomi movement. Kalyan Singh died on August 21, 2021.Also read | Decisions that doesn't just look good but also 'did' good: Shah lauds Modi govtWith one of the most important states headed for election, Shah is likely to tour UP extensively in the coming days and cover the 140 constituencies.In the 2017 Assembly election, the BJP had come to power in the state with a massive majority of more than 300 of the 403 seats. The saffron camp was also victorious in the 2014 Lok Sabha elections, it won 73 of the 80 constituencies and 67 seats in 2019.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/a-chauka-on-way-amit-shah-on-bjp-s-feat-in-2022-up-polls-101640511296032.html
26-12-2021||India||Under Mission Sagar, INS Kesari delivers 500 tonnes of food aid to Mozambique||Indian Naval Ship (INS) Kesari on Saturday reached Port of Maputo, Mozambique to deliver 500 tonnes of food aid under Mission Security And Growth for All in the Region (Sagar). It is the eighth such deployment under Mission Sagar and is being conducted in close coordination with the ministry of external affairs, and other central government agencies."500 tonnes of food aid has been shipped by INS Kesari to support the efforts of Government of Mozambique to cope with the ongoing drought and concurrent challenges of the pandemic," the ministry of defence said in a statement."India also remains committed to supporting the capacity building efforts of the Armed Forces of Mozambique. To this end Kesari is carrying two Fast Interceptor Craft and self-defence equipment to be handed over to the Armed Forces of Mozambique," it added.INS Kesari undertook similar missions between May and June 2020 to provide humanitarian and medical assistance to Maldives, Mauritius, Seychelles, Madagascar and Comoros. The aid also included the deployment of medical assistance teams of the Indian Navy in multiple locations during the initial days of the coronavirus pandemic (Covid-19).Under the Sagar Mission, the Indian Navy has delivered assistance of more than 3,000 metric tons of food aid, over 300 metric tons of liquid medical oxygen, 900 oxygen concentrators and 20 ISO containers to 15 friendly foreign countries over 215 days at sea, according to the ministry."Whilst undertaking, these missions Indian Naval Ships have traversed a cumulative distance of close to 40,000 nm which is nearly twice the circumference of the earth. With a steadfast intent of making such high quantum of humanitarian assistance reach its destination in time, personnel from ships and shore organisations of Indian Navy have invested close to a million man-hours to deliver succour to our friends overseas," added the release.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/under-mission-sagar-ins-kesari-delivers-500-tonnes-of-food-aid-to-mozambique-101640509490655.html
26-12-2021||India||‘Drug FIR not setback, will fight vendetta’: Sukhbir Badal||Come election season, offence is often the best defence. This motto is now a central tenet of Sukhbir Singh Badal’s strategy in the upcoming Punjab assembly polls, in the face of a tough electoral battle made tougher by a damning FIR in a drug case against his brother-in-law and frontline Akali leader Bikram Singh Majithia. The polls, the first since the rupture of the 24-year-old SAD-BJP alliance, will be a litmus test of Badal’s leadership as the first dynastic successor to his father-Akali stalwart Parkash Singh Badal in the party’s 100-year history. In an exclusive sit-down interview on Saturday, Badal, 59, spoke freely on a range of issues from Maijithia, his challengers, the burning issue of sacrilege, issues surrounding drugs, and the political plunge that some farmer unions are now taking. Here are the edited excerpts:
26-12-2021||India||Panel to look into AFSPA withdrawal, says Nagaland govt post meet chaired by Amit Shah||The Nagaland government said on Sunday a committee would soon be instituted to look into the withdrawal of the Armed Forces Special Powers Act (AFSPA) from the state. The controversial Act gives sweeping powers to the armed forces to detain and arrest people without a warrant in areas designated as "disturbed".A statement released by the government said the decision was taken at a meeting chaired by Union home minister Amit Shah and attended by Nagaland chief minister Neiphiu Rio, his Assam counterpart Himanta Biswa Sarma, Nagaland deputy CM Y Patton and NPFLP leader TR Zeliang.The meeting was held on December 23 to discuss the present scenario in Nagaland, the statement said, adding the new committee will be chaired by the MHA’s additional secretary for northeast and include the chief secretary and director general of police of Nagaland among others.Home Minister Amit Shah held a meeting to discuss present scenario in Nagaland on Dec 23. The meeting was attended by Nagaland CM, Assam CM & others. In the meeting, it was decided that a committee will be instituted to look into the withdrawal of AFSPA in Nagaland: Nagaland Govt pic.twitter.com/BAHd2xePzRA court of inquiry will initiate disciplinary proceedings against Army personnel who were directly involved in the killing of 14 civilians in a botched anti-terrorist operation earlier this month.On November 20, the Nagaland assembly unanimously adopted a resolution demanding that the Government of India repeal the AFSPA from the region. Moving the resolution, Rio said for the last 20 years the state government has been recommending that the controversial Act be removed and Nagaland taken off the list of areas declared "disturbed areas."(With inputs from agencies)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/panel-to-look-into-afspa-withdrawal-says-nagaland-govt-post-meet-with-amit-shah-101640509633661.html
26-12-2021||India||9-12 months' gap likely between 2nd dose and 'booster' precaution dose: Reports||A day after Prime Minister Narendra Modi announced India's plan to roll out a third dose of vaccine against Covid, reports claimed that the gap between the second dose and this third dose is likely to be nine to 12 months, news agency PTI reported. The nitty-gritty of the gaps for the vaccines currently being used in India's inoculation programme – Covishield and Covaxin – is being worked out, and a final decision over this will be taken soon, the report said, quoting sources.As announced by PM Modi, the third dose, which is being called the precaution dose will be administered to frontline workers and senior citizens with comorbidities starting from January 10. A majority of this group of the population received both doses in the first half of 2021 as they were the priority groups of India's vaccination programme that started on January 16, 2021. It's already been nine months since their last dose for frontline workers and senior citizens (with comorbidities) who have received both the doses of their vaccines by March-April.After PM Modi’s announcement of vaccines for teens, 'precaution dose’, expert says this"The gap between the second and the precautionary dose of Covid vaccine is likely to be nine to 12 months with the immunisation division and the National Technical Advisory Group on Immunisation (NTAGI) discussing on these lines," the PTI report said.What is the precaution dose?Regular vaccines against Covid consist of two doses. With the emergence of new variants, the need of a third dose which may act as a booster to the immune system of the body was felt worldwide and several countries have started administering this third dose, which is generally referred to as booster dose. PM Modi, however, did not use the popular terminology as he announced the third dose. It was referred to as precaution dose; to be administered as precaution to priority groups amid the rapid spread of Omicron.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/912-months-gap-likely-between-3rd-dose-and-booster-precaution-dose-reports-101640509304800.html
26-12-2021||India||PM Modi to launch hydropower projects, investors' meet in Mandi||Prime Minister Narendra Modi will visit Mandi in Himachal Pradesh on Monday to inaugurate and lay the foundation stone of hydropower projects worth over ₹11,000 crore. He will also preside over the second groundbreaking ceremony of the Himachal Pradesh Global Investors' meet, the PMO said. Noting that Modi has constantly focussed on fully utilising the untapped potential of the resources available in the country, it said a step in this regard has been to utilise optimally the hydropower potential in the Himalayan region. "The projects which will be inaugurated and whose foundation stone will be laid by the Prime Minister during the visit reflect a key step in this direction," it added. Modi will lay the foundation stone of the Renukaji dam project, which had been lying pending for around three decades. The project was made possible with Modi's thrust on cooperative federalism when the states of Himachal Pradesh, Uttar Pradesh, Haryana, Rajasthan, Uttarakhand and Delhi were brought together by the Centre for making the project possible. The 40 MW project will be built at a cost of around ₹7,000 crore. It will prove to be immensely beneficial for Delhi, which will be able to receive around 500 million cubic metre water supply per year, the PMO said. Modi will also lay the foundation stone of the Luhri stage 1 hydro power project.The 210 MW project will be built at a cost of over ₹1,800 crore. It will lead to generation of over 750 million units of electricity per year. The modern and dependable grid support will prove beneficial to surrounding states of the region as well.Another project for which he will lay the foundation stone is Dhaulasidh hydro power project. This will be the first hydropower project of Hamirpur district. The 66 MW project will be built at a cost of over ₹680 crore. It will lead to generation of over 300 million units of electricity per year, the PMO said. Modi will inaugurate the Sawra-Kuddu hydro power project. The 111 MW project has been built at a cost of around ₹2,080 crore. It will lead to generation of over 380 million units of electricity per year, and help the state earn revenue worth over ₹120 crore annually.The Himachal Pradesh Global Investors' meet is expected to give a boost to investment in the region through the start of projects worth around ₹28,000 crore, it added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/pm-modi-to-launch-hydropower-projects-investors-meet-in-mandi-101640507117186.html
26-12-2021||India||Himachal reports first Omicron case in patient who returned from Canada||Himachal Pradesh on Sunday reported its first case of the highly transmissible Omicron variant of the coronavirus, which has now spread to as many as 19 states and Union territories in India.According to the state's health department, the Omicron variant was reported in a person who recently came back from Canada. Although the patient's latest RT-PCR has now come back negative, the Himachal administration has conducted contact tracing to ensure there are no additional cases of the infectious strain.“Himachal Pradesh reports the first case of Omicron. The patient's latest RT-PCR is negative and her three close contacts have also tested negative,” the health department said in a statement.In its daily coronavirus disease (Covid-19) briefing, the Union ministry of health and family welfare informed on Sunday morning that there are as many as 422 cases of the Omicron variant in the country, so far, spread across 17 states and Union territories.However, since then, three states have reported cases of the Omicron variant. Madhya Pradesh registered eight cases—its first such infections—and Odisha added four more taking the nationwide tally to 435.Of the eight patients, who tested positive for Omicron in Madhya Pradesh, six have already recovered and were discharged while two are presently undergoing treatment.In Odisha, the four who got infected with the Omicron variant had returned to the state from foreign countries; two from Nigeria and two from the United Arab Emirates (UAE).All foreign returnees from "at-risk" as well as other countries are being tested in most states, and the samples of those found positive for Covid-19 are being sent for genome sequencing.According to the official data, as shared by the health ministry, Maharashtra (108) has reported the highest number of Omicron infections in the country, followed by Delhi (79), Gujarat (43), Telangana (41), Kerala (38), Tamil Nadu (34), Karnataka (31), and Rajasthan (22).||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/himachal-reports-first-omicron-case-in-patient-who-returned-from-canada-101640506475032.html
26-12-2021||India||'Need of the hour': Maharashtra welcomes Centre's decision to administer booster shots amid Omicron scare||The Maharashtra government on Sunday welcomed the Centre’s decision to administer Covid-19 vaccines to children and “precaution dose” to healthcare and frontline workers as well as people above the age of 60 with comorbidities.Maharashtra health minister Rajesh Tope said those shots are a “need of the hour”, especially amid concerns over the Omicron variant of the coronavirus, considered more transmissible than the previous strains responsible for the earlier waves of the pandemic in the country.“We welcome the central government's decision on boosters for 60+ and frontline staff and vaccines for 15-18 years. Booster dose amid Omicron scare is need of the hour,” news agency ANI quoted Rajesh Tope as saying."PM Modi has fulfilled the demand of booster dose and Covid-19 vaccines for children. We demanded that children should be vaccinated for keeping them safe as schools are reopening," he added.In an address to the nation on Saturday, Prime Minister Narendra Modi announced the vaccination drive for children of age 15 and above will begin from January 3 onwards.The Prime Minister also said “precaution doses” for health care, frontline workers and people above the age of 60 with certain health conditions.In a televised address late in the evening, the Prime Minister also outlined the preparations made by the government to tackle any surges.“We all have experienced that those who are Corona warriors, health care and frontline workers, they have a huge contribution in keeping the country safe in this fight… Therefore, from the point of view of precaution, the government has decided that a ‘precaution dose’ of vaccine will also be started for health care and frontline workers,” PM Modi said.The recent announcement came amid widespread concerns over a third wave of the coronavirus pandemic which, experts fear, will be sparked by the Omicron variant. India’s tally of Omicron cases has already surpassed 400 and Maharashtra has the most number of such infections.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/need-of-the-hour-maharashtra-welcomes-centre-s-decision-to-administer-booster-shots-amid-omicron-scare-101640506262014.html
26-12-2021||India||PM Modi talks about 'Kaavi' on Mann Ki Baat, stresses ancient art’s preservation||Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Sunday spoke about a dying form of art, mostly found in Goa and coastal parts of Maharashtra, as he urged people to work towards preserving such ancient forms in the country.During the 84th edition of the Mann Ki Baat radio programme, the Prime Minister spoke about Sagar Mule from Goa, who he said, was involved in preserving the centuries-old Kaavi form.Delving into the history of the art form, PM Modi told his listeners the Kaavi form of painting was introduced by the Portuguese who ruled Goa until 1961. He said, however, with the passage of time, people have forgotten about the significance of the painting and the art form has been on the verge of extinction.Also read | ‘Find your calling’: PM Modi recalls Group Captain Varun Singh's letter to schoolPM Modi commended Sagar Mule ji for his efforts to preserve the art form and infuse a new lease of life to this art. He also urged the people of the country to make small efforts to preserve the ancient arts.“His efforts are also getting a lot of appreciation. Friends, a small effort, even a small step, can make a huge contribution in the preservation of our rich arts. If the people of our country are determined, the passion to adorn, beautify and save our ancient arts across the country can take the form of a mass movement," he said during the Mann Ki Baat address.Also read | Share your reading list, help others pick up books in the new year, says PM ModiKaavi is a form of wall art done in bright red and white shades and found in the Konkan region of the country, especially in temples of Goa, Maharashtra and Karnataka. It is a form of etching on the walls of temples and homes that depicts the ancient history of India.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/pm-modi-talks-about-kaavi-on-mann-ki-baat-stresses-ancient-art-s-preservation-101640504436063.html
26-12-2021||India||Momir Nikic and J Gendedharam: Scholars mentioned by PM Modi on Mann Ki Baat||Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Sunday introduced citizens to two foreign scholars for their respective works related to Indian languages. PM Modi's introduction of the scholars--Dr Momir Nikic from Serbia and Professor J Gendedharam of Mongolia--came during his address to the nation on the last episode of the year of Mann Ki Baat, his monthly radio programme.Also Read | Full speech text: PM Modi's address to nation on last Mann Ki Baat of 2021The Prime Minister mentioned the scholars as he spoke to people on what he described as ‘growing interest among people from different countries in knowing about Indian culture, and helping to spread it.’He was first spoke about Dr Momir Nikic. “You would be delighted to know that Dr Nikic has complied a dictionary in Sanskrit and Serbian. More than 70 thousand Sanskrit words included in this dictionary have been translated into Serbian. You would be delighted to know that Dr Nikic learned Sanskrit language at the age of 70. He said he got his inspiration from reading the Mahatma Gandhi's articles.”Also Read | Share your reading list, help others pick up books in the new year, says PM ModiPM Modi then profiled Professor Gendedharam. He said, “A similar example is of 93-year-old Professor J Gendedharam. In the last four decades, he has translated about 40 ancient texts, epics and compositions of India into Mongolian language. Many people are working with suchf passion in our country as well.”Also Read | ‘Find your calling’: PM Modi recalls Group Captain Varun Singh's letter to schoolAs yet another example of foreign nationals taking interest in Indian culture, he showed a video of a group of children singing Vande Mataram. The ‘beautiful video, said Prime Minister Modi, was from Greece. “The beauty and emotion they showed in singing our national song is amazing and commendable. Such efforts bring people of two countries closer,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/momir-nikic-and-j-gendedharam-scholars-mentioned-by-pm-modi-on-mann-ki-baat-101640502035059.html
26-12-2021||India||Karnataka imposes night curfew, 50% occupancy rule to contain Covid-19 threat||The Karnataka government on Sunday imposed fresh restrictions that include night curfew, halving seating capacities in hotels and eateries to 50% as well as a complete ban on any large gatherings or New Year celebrations in public places across the state as a preventive measure to contain the growing number of Covid-19 infections.The decision comes a day after Karnataka reported seven more cases of the Omicron virus, taking the tally in the southern state to 38.“From December 28 onwards, for about 10 days, we have called (imposed) a night curfew, invoking section 144 from night 10 pm to the next day morning 5 am,” Dr K Sudhakar, Karnataka’s minister for health, family welfare and medical education said on Sunday in Bengaluru.The announcement came after chief minister Basavaraj Bommai chaired an urgent meeting with ministers, senior government officials and members of the technical advisory committee (TAC) on Covid-19 in Bengaluru to impose “preventive” measures to contain the growing number of infections. The fresh curbs have heightened fears of a relapse into restrictions on movement in the new year.“We have curbs on all kinds of functions (events) for the New Year (celebrations),” Sudhakar said.He added that there will be a complete ban on all parties and events with large gatherings and DJ nights or celebrations in public places.All eateries, restaurants, pubs and other commercial spaces will have just 50% occupancy, he added.The state registered at least 270 new Covid-19 infections in 24 hours, the state health department said in its bulletin on Saturday. The worrying part is that the number of recoveries at 243 is lower than the number of new infections, taking the active case count to 7271, according to the health department bulletin. Four more people died due to the virus, taking the death toll to 38,309 in the state so far, and the case fatality rate stood at 1.48%.Sudhakar said that the state government will also commence vaccination for persons between the ages of 15-18 from January 3. He said that there are around 43 lakh persons who fall between these age groups in the state.The state government will also administer booster or preventive doses for healthcare and frontline workers, persons above 60 years of age and others with comorbidities from January 10.Sudhakar said that Karnataka has achieved around 97% of vaccination coverage with the first dose and 75% in the second dose with around 45 lakh persons yet to take the second jab in the state.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/karnataka-imposes-night-curfew-50-occupancy-rule-to-contain-covid-19-threat-101640505397688.html
26-12-2021||India||Madhya Pradesh reports first Omicron cases, Odisha adds 4 more to its tally||Madhya Pradesh on Sunday reported its first eight cases of Omicron and in Odisha four more people tested positive for the fast-spreading variant of the coronavirus, taking the country tally to 434, officials said.Madhya Pradesh home minister Narottam Mishra said on Sunday 8 cases of the Omicron variant, mostly in the young, were found in Indore city."Eight Omicron cases have been found in Indore. Out of these patients, six have recovered and have been discharged while two are undergoing treatment,” Mishra, who is also the state government's spokesperson, told reporters.Also read | Karnataka reimposes night curfew, bans movement of people from 10pm to 5amThe minister said around 3,000 people recently returned to Indore from abroad and 26 of them were found to be infected with the coronavirus. "Omicron was confirmed in the genome sequencing of eight of these people," he said.News agency PTI reported citing officials the samples of these people, who returned to the state's industrial hub Indore from different countries, were taken between December 17 and 21.Also read | PM Modi announces Covid-19 jabs for kids, boosters for 60+The infected included two men aged 20 and 30 years, who came from New York in the United States on December 14 and 19, respectively, and a 23-year-old woman who arrived from London on December 14, according to these officials.They also include two women aged 33 and 26 who returned from Tanzania in east Africa on December 19, a 33-year-old woman who came from Ghana in west Africa on December 17, and two men aged 26 and 31 years, who arrived from Dubai on December 13 and 18 respectively, they added.Also read | PM Modi announces vaccines for teens, 'precaution dose’. Expert lists next planIn Odisha, which has already reported four Omicron cases, four more people who returned to the state from foreign countries were found to be infected with the variant of the coronavirus.Odisha reported the first cases of Omicron on December 21 after two people who travelled from Nigeria and Qatar, were found to be infected. Two more cases of Omicron were found as two people, who came back from Nigeria, tested positive on December 23.Also read | Centre deploys expert teams to 10 states showing rapid surge in covid casesDirector of Health Service (DHS) Bijay Mohapatra told PTI the two of the new patients returned from Nigeria and the other two came back from the UAE. Mohapatra also said the conditions of all the four is stable.He added all foreign returnees from "at-risk" as well as other countries are being tested, and the samples of those found positive for Covid-19 are being sent for genome sequencing.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/madhya-pradesh-reports-first-omicron-cases-odisha-adds-4-more-to-its-tally-101640504296734.html
26-12-2021||India||News updates from HT: Police add names of two more seers in Haridwar hate speech||Here are today’s top news, analysis, and opinion. Know all about the latest news and other news updates from Hindustan Times.Police add names of two more seers in Haridwar hate speech caseThe Haridwar police in its ongoing probe of the case against accused seers who allegedly delivered hate speeches against minorities during a three-day event in the city, have added names of two more seers in the case, said police on Sunday morning. Read more  Full speech text: PM Modi's address to nation on last Mann Ki Baat of 2021Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Sunday addressed the nation through his monthly Mann Ki Baat radio programme, in what was its last episode for the year. PM Modi's latest Mann Ki Baat address was also, overall, the 84th of the series, the first edition of which aired on October 3, 2014. Read more Trains cancelled in Ferozepur amid ongoing 'rail-roko' agitation by farmersThe farmers under the banner of the Kisan Mazdoor Sangarsh Committee (KMSC) are holding a ‘rail-roko’ protest to seek a complete waiver of farm loans from the Punjab government. Read more6 dead, over 12 injured in boiler explosion in factory in Bihar's MuzaffarpurIdentities of people who died in the accident are yet to be ascertained. It is not known how many people were working at the factory at the time of the accident. Read more More than 100 Japan flights cancelled due to heavy snowMore than 100 domestic flights in Japan were grounded on Sunday due to heavy snow in the northern and western parts of the country, Japan's two biggest airlines said. Read more 'I was also there on the tour': Former India selector reacts to R Ashwin's ‘crushed’ remarks, says 'Shastri is right'R Ashwin had said that Ravi Shastri's comments had left him "crushed" and he felt like "being thrown under the bus".  Read more Jackie Shroff says astrologer dad predicted something bad would happen the day his brother drownedJackie Shorff has shared how his astrologer father had predicted a bad day for his brother before he drowned. The actor was chatting with Twinkle Khanna about his life. Read moreWhy a warm breakfast is good for your health as per AyurvedaWhile many people prefer cold breakfast options to warm, Ayurveda recommends one to have warm breakfast. Here's why. Read more||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/news-updates-from-ht-police-add-names-of-two-more-seers-in-haridwar-hate-speech-101640501712930.html
26-12-2021||India||Share your reading list, help others pick up books in the new year, says PM Modi||Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Sunday urged the listeners of his radio programme Mann Ki Baat to name five books they liked reading the most this year to help others follow the “good trend” of reading more, which he said should be enhanced further.“In this way, you will also be able to help other readers to choose good books in 2022. At a time when the screen time is on the upswing, book reading should get more and more popular; for that too, we will have to strive together,” PM Modi said while addressing the 84th episode of Mann Ki Baat programme.The Prime Minister said books not only impart knowledge but also shape personality and life and that the hobby of reading books “leads to a wonderful satisfaction.”Also read | On Mann Ki Baat, PM Modi lists weapons against Omicron“These days I notice people proudly saying that they have read these many books this year! And that I want to read many more of such books. This is a good trend, which should be enhanced further,” PM Modi said during the last episode of this year.He spoke about “an interesting endeavour” of the Pune-based Bhandarkar Oriental Research Institute to make India’s ancient texts and cultural values popular not only in the country but all over the world.Also read | ‘Find your calling’: Modi recalls Group Captain Varun Singh's letter to school“This institute has started an online course to acquaint the people of other countries with the importance of the Mahabharata. You would be amazed to know that although this course has been started now, the content being taught started taking shape over 100 years ago,” he added.Also read | Full speech text: PM Modi's address to nation on last Mann Ki Baat of 2021The Prime Minister said when the institute started a course, it received tremendous response.“I am discussing this grand initiative so that people become aware of how the various aspects of our traditions are being presented in a modern manner. Innovative methods are also being adopted to ensure its benefits reach people based across seven seas.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/share-your-reading-list-help-others-pick-up-books-in-the-new-year-says-pm-modi-101640502330287.html
26-12-2021||India||Full speech text: PM Modi's address to nation on last Mann Ki Baat of 2021||Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Sunday addressed the nation through his monthly Mann Ki Baat radio programme, in what was its last episode for the year. PM Modi's latest Mann Ki Baat address was also, overall, the 84th of the series, the first edition of which aired on October 3, 2014.Also Read | PM Modi to address nation in year’s last Mann Ki Baat episode todayAs always, the Prime Minister spoke on a range of issues, speaking to people on issues such as Covid-19, the Omicron variant of the coronavirus, Indian Air Force's (IAF) Group Captain Varun Singh, Pariksha Par Charcha, among others.Also Read | On Mann Ki Baat, PM Modi lists weapons against OmicronHere's the full text of PM Modi's speech (translated from Hindi to English) from the last Mann Ki Baat episode of 2021:My dear countrymen, Namaskar. Presently, you must be amid preparations for bidding farewell to 2021 and welcoming 2022. On New Year, every person, every organization, takes a resolution to do something better, to become better in the coming year. For the last seven years, our 'Mann Ki Baat' has also been inspiring us to do better and improve further, by highlighting the goodness of the individual, of the society, of the country. In these seven years, while doing 'Mann Ki Baat', I could also have discussed the achievements of the government...You too would have liked it; you would have appreciated it as well! But it is my experience of decades, that away from the glare of the media, away from the headlines of newspapers, there are millions of people who are doing great things. They are expending their today for the ensuing tomorrow of the country. For the coming generations of the country, they are busy today relentlessly with their efforts. Talking about such people is very comforting; gives deep inspiration. For me 'Mann Ki Baat' has always been a beautiful garden filled with the efforts of such people and in 'Mann Ki Baat', every month my effort is...from this garden, which petal should I pluck for you? I am happy that from the treasure trove of our land the unceasing flow of virtuous deeds keeps on flowing ceaselessly. And today when the country is celebrating Amrit Mahotsav, the mention of this Janashakti; the strength of each and every individual, their efforts, their hard work, in a way, guarantees a bright future for India and humanity.Friends, this is the strength of the people; it is because of everyone's effort that India could fight the biggest pandemic in a 100 years. We stood by each other like a family in every difficult moment. To help someone in one’s locality or city... everyone tried to do more than what one could have done. If we compare the vaccination figures of the world today with those of India, it feels that the country has handled such an unprecedented task... how big a goal has been achieved. Crossing the 140 million vaccine dose mark is an achievement of each and every Indian. This shows the trust of every Indian in the system; shows trust in science and in scientists; and is also a testament to the willpower of we Indians who are fulfilling our responsibilities towards the society. But friends, we also have to keep in mind that a new variant of Corona has already knocked at the door. Our experience of the last two years is that our own effort as a citizen is very important to defeat this global pandemic. Our scientists are continuously studying this new Omicron variant. They are getting new data everyday , their suggestions are being worked upon. In such a situation, self-awareness, self-discipline is in itself the country’s strength in fighting against this variant of Corona. It is this very collective strength of ours that will defeat Corona; with this very sense of responsibility we have to enter into 2022.My dear countrymen, during the battle of Mahabharata, Bhagwan Shri Krishna expressed to Arjuna – ' Nabhah Sprisham Deeptam ' i.e. touch the sky with pride. This is also the motto of the Indian Air Force. Many lives engaged in the service of Maa Bharati soar over these heights of the sky with pride every day; they teach us a lot. Such was the life of Group Captain Varun Singh. Varun Singh was flying the helicopter that fell prey to a mishap this month in Tamil Nadu. In that accident, we lost the country's first CDS, General Bipin Rawat and his wife along with many brave hearts. Varun Singh also fought death bravely for many days, but then he also left us. When Varun was in the hospital, I saw something on social media that touched my heart. He was given Shaurya Chakra in August just this year. After this honor, he had written a letter to the principal of his school. After reading this letter, the first thought that came to my mind was that even after reaching the pinnacle of success, he did not forget to nurture his roots. Second - that when he had time to celebrate, he showed concern for the generations to come. He wanted that the lives of the students of the school that he studied in should also be a celebration. In his letter, Varun Singh ji did not boast of his valour; instead he referred to his failures. He talked about how he converted his shortcomings into abilities. At one place in this letter he has written – “ It is ok to be mediocre. Not everyone will excel at school and not everyone will be able to score in the 90s. If you do, it is an amazing achievement and must be applauded. However, if you don't, do not think that you are meant to be mediocre. You may be mediocre in school but it is by no means a measure of things to come in life. Find your calling - it could be art, music, graphic design, literature, etc. Whatever you work towards, be dedicated, do your best. Never go to bed, thinking, I could have put-in more efforts.Friends, the mantra he has given to rise from average to extraordinary is equally important. In this letter Varun Singh has written –“Never lose hope. Never think that you cannot be good at what you want to be. It will not come easy, it will take sacrifice of time and comfort. I was mediocre, and today, I have reached difficult milestones in my career. Do not think that 12th board marks decide what you are capable of achieving in life. Believe in yourself and work towards it."Varun had written that if he could inspire even a single student , it would be a lot. But today I would like to say – he has inspired the whole country. Even though his letter talks only to the students , he has given a message to our entire society.every year I discuss such similar topics with students on exams. This year also I am planning to discuss with the students before the exams. The registration for this program is also going to start two days later, 28th December onwards on Mygov.in . This registration will be on from 28th December to 20th January. For this, online competition will also be organized for students, teachers, and parents of class 9 to 12. I would like you all to take part in this... will get an opportunity to meet you. Together we will brainstorm on many aspects related to examinations, career, success and student life.My dear countrymen, in Mann ki Baat now, I am going to make you listen to something which has come from far away, across borders. It will delight you and amaze you as well :(Instrumental + Vocal (VandeMatram))VandeMataram . vandemataramSujalanSuphalanMalayajsheetlamShasyashamalanMataram. vandemataramshubrajyotsnapulkitayaminifullakusumitdrumdalshobininsuhasini sweet talkerSukhdanboordaanmataram.VandeMataram. VandeMataram .I am sure you must have enjoyed listening to that; with a feeling of pride. The spirit that is embodied in Vande Mataram fills us with pride and enthusiasm.Friends, you certainly must be thinking... where is this beautiful video from; what country has it come from? The answer will add to your surprise. These students who presented Vande Mataram are from Greece. There they attend a High School at Illia. The beauty and emotion with which they have sung ' VandeMataram ' is amazing and commendable. Such efforts bring people of two countries closer. My greetings to these students of Greece and their teachers. I appreciate their effort during the Azadi Ka Amrit Mahotsav.Friends, I would also like to discuss a post of Nilesh ji, a resident of Lucknow. Nilesh ji has showered praises on a unique Drone Show in Lucknow. This drone show was organized in the Residency area of Lucknow. The testimony of the first freedom struggle of 1857 is still visible on the walls of the Residency . In the Drone Show held at the Residency , different aspects of the Indian freedom struggle were brought to life. Be it ' Chauri Chaura Andolan ' , the ' Kakori Train ' incident or Netaji Subhash's indomitable courage and valor, this Drone Show won everyone's hearts. Similarly, you can also bring to the people the unique aspects related to the freedom movement connected to your cities, villages. In that you can take a lot of help of technology. Azadi Ka Amrit Mahotsav gives us an opportunity to live the memories of the freedom struggle; gives us an opportunity to experience them. This is an inspiring festival, a motivating occasion , to display the will to do something, to take new resolves for the country. Let us continue to be inspired by the great personalities of the freedom struggle, continue to further strengthen our efforts for the country.My dear countrymen, our India is endowed with many extraordinary talents, whose work inspires others to do something. One such person is Dr. Kurela Vithalacharya ji from Telangana. He is 84 years old. Vithalacharya ji exemplifies the fact that when it comes to fulfilling your dreams, age does not matter at all. Friends, right from childhood Vitthlacharya ji had a wish to open a big library. The country was a slave then, some circumstances were such that the childhood dream remained just a dream. Over time Vittlachary ji, became a lecturer, deeply studied the Telugu language and also created many works in the same. 6-7 years ago he once again started fulfilling his dream. He started a library with his own books. He put his life's earnings into this. Gradually, people started joining and contributing to it. In this library at Ramannapet Division in Yadadri-Bhuvnagiri District, there are nearly 2 lakh books. Vitthalacharya ji says that when it comes to studies, none else should have to face the difficulties he had to. Today he feels very happy to see that a large number of students are getting its benefits. Inspired by his efforts, people of many other villages have started setting up libraries.Friends, books not only impart knowledge; they also shape personality and life. The hobby of reading books leads to a wonderful satisfaction. These days I notice people proudly saying that they have read these many books this year! And that I want to read many more of such books. This is a good trend, which should be enhanced further. I would also ask the listeners of 'Mann Ki Baat' to mention about five books of theirs this year, which have been their favourites. In this way, you will also be able to help other readers to choose good books in 2022. At a time when the screen time is on the upswing, Book Reading should get more and more popular; for that too, we will have to strive together .My dear countrymen, recently my attention has been drawn to an interesting endeavor. This effort is to make our ancient texts and cultural values ​​popular not only in India but all over the world. In Pune there is a centre named Bhandarkar Oriental Research Institute. This institute has started an online course to acquaint the people of other countries with the importance of Mahabharata. You would be amazed to know that although this this course has been started now, the content being taught started taking shape over a 100 years ago. When the Institute started a course with regard to this, it received tremendous response. I am discussing this grand initiative so that people become aware of how the various aspects of our traditions are being presented in a modern manner. Innovative methods are also being adopted to ensure its benefits reach people based across seven seas.Friends, today there is a growing interest in the world to know about Indian culture. People from different countries are not only curious to know about our culture but are also helping to spread it. One such person is Serbian Scholar Dr.Momir Nikich. He has compiled a Bilingual Sanskrit-Serbian Dictionary. More than 70 thousand Sanskrit words included in this dictionary have been translated into Serbian language. You would be delighted to know that Dr.Nikich has learned Sanskrit language at the age of 70. He tells that he got his inspiration from reading the articles of Mahatma Gandhi. A similar example is that of 93 (Ninety-three) year old Professor J. Gendedharam of Mongolia. In the last 4 decades, he has translated about 40 ancient texts, epics and compositions of India into Mongolian language. Many people are working with this kind of passion in our country too. I also got to know about the efforts of Sagar Mule ji of Goa, who is involved in saving centuries old 'Kaavi' painting from extinction. 'Kaavi' form of painting covers the ancient history of India in itself. Actually, 'Kaava' means red soil. In ancient times red clay was used in this art. During the Portuguese rule in Goa, the people who migrated from there introduced the people of other states to this wonderful painting form. With the passage of time this painting was on the verge of extinction. But Sagar Mule ji has infused a new lease of life to this art. His efforts are also getting a lot of appreciation. Friends, a small effort, even a small step, can make a huge contribution in the preservation of our rich arts. If the people of our country are determined, the passion to adorn, beautify and save our ancient arts across the country can take the form of a mass movement. I've talked about a few attempts here. Many such efforts are taking place across the country. Do convey information on them to me through Namo App .My dear countrymen, the people of Arunachal Pradesh have been running a unique campaign for a year and have named it "Arunachal Pradesh Airgun Surrender Campaign". In this campaign, people are voluntarily surrendering their airguns – Do you know why? So that indiscriminate hunting of birds can be stopped in Arunachal Pradesh. Friends, Arunachal Pradesh is home to more than 500 species of birds. These include some indigenous species, which are not found anywhere else in the world. But gradually, now the number of birds in the forests has started declining. This airgun surrender campaign is going on now to rectify this very situation. During the past few months, from the hills to the plains, from one community to the other, people everywhere in the state welcomed it with open arms. The people of Arunachal have voluntarily surrendered more than 1600 airguns. I commend and congratulate the people of Arunachal for this.My dear countrymen, there have been many messages and suggestions related to 2022 from all of you. One theme is always there in most people's messages. That is of cleanliness and Swachh Bharat. This resolve of cleanliness will be fulfilled only with discipline, awareness and dedication. We can get a glimpse of that in the Puneet Sagar campaign undertaken by cadets. More than 30 thousand NCC cadets participated in this campaign. These cadets cleaned the beaches, removed plastic waste from there and collected it for recycling. Our beaches, our mountains are worth visiting only when there is cleanliness at the place. Many people dream of going to a particular place all their lives... but when they go there, knowingly or unknowingly, they leave behind waste there. It is the responsibility of every countryman that the places which give us so much joy, should not be dirtied by us.Friends, I have come to know about a start-up named saafwater which has been started by some youth. With the help of Artificial Intelligence and Internet of things , it will give information related to the purity and quality of water in their area to people. This is just the next step of cleanliness. In view of the importance of this start-up for the clean and healthy future of the people , it has also received a Global Award .Friends, in this effort 'Ek qadam swachhata ki ore’ , be it the institutions or the government, everyone has an important role. You all know that earlier there used to be a lot of old files and papers in government offices. Ever since the government has started changing the old practices, these files and piles of paper are getting digitized and stored in computer folders . Special campaigns are also being run in ministries and departments to remove the old and pending material. Some very interesting things have happened through this campaign. When this cleanliness drive was started in the Department of Post , the junkyard there became completely empty. Now this junkyard has been turned into a courtyard and cafeteria. Another junkyard has been converted into a parking space for two wheelers. Similarly, the Ministry of Environment converted its vacant junkyard into a wellness centre. The Ministry of Urban Affairs has even installed a Swachh ATM too. Its purpose is that people deposit garbage and take cash in return. Departments under the Civil Aviation Ministry have started making organic compost from dry leaves falling from trees and organic waste. This department is also working to make stationery from waste paper. Our government departments can also be so innovative on a subject like cleanliness. Till a few years ago, no one even believed in it , but today it is becoming a part of the system. This is the new thinking of the country, which is being led by all the countrymen together.My dear countrymen, this time also in 'Mann Ki Baat' we touched upon many topics. Like every time, after a month, we will meet again, but, in 2022. Every new beginning also brings an opportunity to recognize your potential. Goals we didn't even imagine before. Today the country is making efforts for them. It is said here -Kshanashah kanashashchaiva, vidyam artham cha saadhayet.Kshane Nashte Kuto Vidya, Kane Nashte Kuto Dhanam ||That is, when we want to earn knowledge, learn something new or do it, we should make use of every single moment. And when we have to earn money, that is, progress and growth, every particle, every resource, should be used optimally. Since, with the destruction of the moment, learning and knowledge are gone, and with the destruction of the particle, the resource, paths to wealth and progress are closed. This thing is an inspiration for all of us countrymen. We have to learn so much, innovate anew, achieve new goals, therefore , we will have to persevere without wasting even a moment. We have to take the country to new heights of development, so we have to make full use of every resource of ours. In a way, this is also the mantra of Atma Nirbhar Bharat that is self-reliant India, because, when we use our resources properly, we will not let them go waste, only then will we recognize the power of local, only then will the country be self-reliant. So, let us reiterate our resolve to think big, dream big, and work hard to make them come true. And, our dreams will not be limited to us alone. Our dreams will be such that the development of our society and the country is connected, our progress will open the way for the progress of the country and for this, we have to start working from today, without wasting a single moment, without losing a single particle or resource. I am fully confident that with this very resolve the country will move forward in the coming year, and 2022 will be the golden page of building a new India. With this very faith, wishing you all a very Happy 2022. Thank you very much.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/full-speech-text-pm-modi-s-address-to-nation-on-last-mann-ki-baat-episode-of-2021-101640500219662.html
26-12-2021||India||‘Find your calling’: PM Modi recalls Group Captain Varun Singh's letter to school||Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Sunday paid his tributes to Group Captain Varun Singh, who sustained grave injuries in a military helicopter crash earlier this month and passed away after a week-long battle with death.While addressing the 84th episode of his monthly Mann Ki Baat radio programme, PM Modi also remembered the valour of the other Indian armed forces personnel who lost their lives in the air accident in Tamil Nadu.Prime Minister Modi said Group Captain Varun Singh was a decorated officer of the Indian Air Force (IAF) who did not forget his roots even after reaching the pinnacle of success.“Varun Singh also fought death bravely for many days, but then he left us too,” said the Prime Minister. “When Varun was in the hospital, I saw something on social media that touched my heart. He was given the Shaurya Chakra in August just this year. After this honour, he had written a letter to the principal of his school.”Talking about the humility displayed by Varun Singh, Prime Minister Modi said, “After reading this letter, the first thought that came to my mind was that even after reaching the pinnacle of success, he did not forget to nurture his roots. Second - that when he had time to celebrate, he showed concern for the generations to come. He wanted that the lives of the students of the school that he studied in should also be celebrated.”The Prime Minister said that Group Captain Varun Singh never once boasted of his valour and instead referred to his failures.“It is okay to be mediocre,” wrote the IAF officer, talking about how he managed to turn his shortcomings around.“Not everyone will excel at school and not everyone will be able to score in the 90s. If you do, it is an amazing achievement and must be applauded. However, if you don't, do not think that you are meant to be mediocre. You may be mediocre in school but it is by no means a measure of things to come in life. Find your calling – it could be art, music, graphic design, literature, etc. Whatever you work towards, be dedicated, do your best. Never go to bed, thinking, I could have put in more effort,” he wrote.From Varun Singh's letter to the students, the Prime Minister highlighted the ‘mantra’ that the officer delivered – a bolstering message inspiring the youth to rise from average to extraordinary.“Never lose hope. Never think that you cannot be good at what you want to be. It will not come easy, it will take sacrifice of time and comfort. I was mediocre, and today, I have reached difficult milestones in my career. Do not think that 12th board marks decide what you are capable of achieving in life. Believe in yourself and work towards it,” Singh wrote in that letter.PM Modi pointed out that Singh wrote that if he could inspire even a single student, it would be enough. “…but in doing so, he has inspired the entire country. Even though his letter talks only to the students, he has given a message to our entire society,” he added.India’s first Chief of Defence Staff General Bipin Rawat, his wife and 11 others also died in the IAF chopper crash near Coonoor town of Tamil Nadu.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/find-your-calling-pm-modi-recalls-group-captain-varun-singh-s-letter-to-school-101640499373160.html
26-12-2021||India||6 dead, over 12 injured in boiler explosion in factory in Bihar's Muzaffarpur||At least 6 labourers were killed and more than a dozen were injured after a boiler exploded in a noodle-making factory in Bihar's Muzaffarpur, officials said on Sunday.They added rescue operations are underway even as further details on the accident are awaited. The death toll is expected to rise.Identities of people who died in the accident are yet to be ascertained. It is not known how many people were working at the factory at the time of the accident.According to Hindustan Times' sister publication Live Hindustan, the explosion was so strong that it was heard 5-km away from the site of the blast. At least 5 fire brigades were rushed to extinguish the flames.People familiar with the matter said adjacent establishments were also damaged in the explosion. Those living in the vicinity said they heard a loud thud when the explosion rocked the factory.The exact cause of the incident could not be known immediately.Meanwhile, the factory gates have been closed.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/6-dead-over-12-injured-in-boiler-explosion-in-factory-in-bihar-s-muzaffarpur-101640499654871.html
26-12-2021||India||On Mann Ki Baat, PM Modi lists weapons against Omicron||Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Sunday stressed the power of self-awareness and self-discipline to fight Omicron, the latest variant of the coronavirus, while addressing the 84th episode of his monthly radio programme Mann Ki Baat."We must remember that a new variant of Covid-19 Omicron has knocked on our doors. To defeat this global pandemic our effort as citizens is important," PM Modi said in the last edition of the monthly radio programme of this year.He said scientists in the country are constantly studying the new Omicron variant. “Every day they are getting new data, their suggestions are being worked on,” he said.Also read | Mann Ki Baat highlights: Let us make reading books popular, says PM Modi“In such a case, self-awareness and self-discipline are the powers the country has against this variant of Corona. Only our collective strength will defeat Corona and it is with this sense of responsibility that we have to enter 2022,” he added.The Prime Minister’s comments came as 422 cases of the Omicron variant were reported in India on Sunday and 6,987 more people tested positive for the coronavirus disease (Covid-19), pushing the country’s tally to 34,786,802.His comments also came a day after he announced children of ages 15 and above will be vaccinated against Covid-19 from January 3 and “precaution doses” to health care and frontline workers and people above the age of 60 with certain health conditions will be given from January 10.PM Modi also talked about India's vaccination drive under which he said are more and more people are being inoculated against Covid-19 and “this shows the innovative zeal of our scientists and the trust of our people.”He said India achieved an unprecedented feat if its vaccination data is compared with those from across the world. “Crossing the 140 crore dose of vaccine milestone is the achievement of every Indian. This shows that every Indian has trust in the system, faith in science, trust in scientists and fulfilling our obligations to society. It is also a testament to the will of us Indians,” he said.The first episode of the programme was broadcast on October 3, 2014.In his last episode of Mann Ki Baat, which was broadcast on November 28, the Prime Minister lauded the armed forces for the completion of 50 years of India's victory over Pakistan in the 1971 war.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/on-mann-ki-baat-pm-modi-lists-weapons-against-omicron-101640496386470.html
26-12-2021||India||Watch Live: PM Modi addresses nation on last Mann Ki Baat programme of the year||Prime Minister Narendra Modi is addressing the nation through his Mann Ki Baat monthly radio programme. This is the 84th episode of the monthly broadcast, which is held on the last Sunday of every month, and the last one of the year 2021. Urging citizens of the nation to tune in, the official Mann Ki Baat handle tweeted on Saturday, “Tomorrow at 11 AM! #MannKiBaat.”The 84th episode of the Mann Ki Baat programme is being live-streamed on the Bharatiya Janta Party's (BJP) YouTube channel and the website of the Prime Minister's Office. It is also being broadcast on the network of All India Radio, Doordarshan, and the AIR News website www.newsonair.com and Newsonair mobile app.In every edition, the Prime Minister talks to the nation on a range of issues, including on events that fell just before that particular address or will be observed in the days to come. In pandemic times, a major portion of each monthly address has been dedicated to Covid-19.Watch the 84th edition of PM Modi's Mann Ki Baat LIVE here:||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/watch-live-pm-modi-addresses-nation-on-last-mann-ki-baat-programme-of-the-year-101640495919535.html
26-12-2021||NA||Mann Ki Baat highlights: At a time when screen time is increasing, let's make reading books popular, says PM Modi||Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Sunday addressed the nation through Mann Ki Baat, which was the last episode of his monthly radio programme this year.During the address, PM Modi remembered the chief of defence staff Bipin Rawat and group captain Varun Singh who died in the IAF chopper crash near Coonoor in Tamil Nadu earlier this month. The Prime Minister also lauded the country for standing together amid the ongoing Covid-19 pandemic, but urged caution in wake of the emergence of the Omicron variant of the Coronavirus.In the last episode of Mann Ki Baat aired on November 28, the Prime Minister praised the armed forces ahead of the 50th anniversary of India's victory over Pakistan in the 1971 war.PM Modi also acknowledged the growing number of start-ups and unicorns in the country. He said India has become home to high valuation start-ups with more than 70 such firms achieving unicorn status and the funds they pulled in from investors within and outside the country was unimaginable till a few years ago.The first episode of the programme, usually broadcast on the last Sunday of every month, was broadcast on October 3, 2014.Follow all the updates here:PM Modi ends Mann Ki Baat address.PM Modi ends his Mann Ki Baat address.Let us keep innovating, doing new things: PM ModiThe next Mann Ki Baat will take place in the year 2022. Let us keep innovating, doing new things and always keep in mind the progress of our nation and the empowerment of our fellow Indians: PM ModiPM Modi lauds startup 'SAAF-Water' for helping people map, identify clean drinking water'SAAF-Water' is a startup that is helping people map and identify clean drinking water with the help of Artificial Intelligence and IoT which is enabling people to drink clean water with the help of technology: PM ModiIncreased curiosity to learn more about Indian culture in current times: PM ModiToday, there is an increased curiosity to learn more about Indian culture. People from different nations are not just curious to learn but are also helping to promote it further: PMIn an era where screen time is increasing, let us also make reading books popular: PM Modi“Let us make reading more popular. I urge you all to share which books you read this year. This way you will help others make their reading list for 2022,” says PM Modi.PM Modi salutes Captain Varun Singh in Mann Ki Baat address, recalls his letter to schoolGroup Captain Varun Singh bravely battled with death for many days but unfortunately, he passed away. He was felicitated with Shaurya Chakra in August 2021. He had also written a letter to his school principal where he highlighted that "it’s ok to be mediocre": PM #MannKiBaat pic.twitter.com/INriFL47cY“Group Captain Varun Singh struggled until his last breath, he was felicitated with Shaurya Chakra in August 2021. He had also written a letter to his school principal & did not forget his roots & learnings. In his letter, he had highlighted his failures & mediocrity,” says PM Modi.PM Modi urges caution amid Omicron scare  "As the new Covid-19 variant, Omicron enters India, we have to be more careful & keep following Covid-19-appropriate behaviour at all times. As we get ready to enter the new year we have to pledge to multiply our efforts to fight Coronavirus," says PM Modi.PM remembers CDS Bipin Rawat who died in IAF chopper crashPM Modi remembers CDS Bipin Rawat and Group Captain Varun Sigh who died in the IAF chopper crash near Coonoor in Tamil Nadu.Mann ki Baat is about collective efforts by grassroots level change-makers: PM Modi“For me, MannKiBaat is not about highlighting the work of the government, which could have been easily done. Instead, it is about collective efforts by grassroots level change-makers,” says PM Modi.India stood together as family amid pandemic, says PM ModiPM Modi lauds India for standing together as a family amid the ongoing Covid-19 pandemic.PM Modi addresses 84th edition of Mann Ki BaatPrime Minister Narendra Modi addresses the 84th edition of the Mann Ki Baat programme.PM Modi to address nation through Mann ki Baat shortlyTune in today at 11 AM. #MannKiBaat pic.twitter.com/KVAlLOjbcNPrime Minister Narendra Modi will address the nation through his radio programme Mann Ki Baat shortly. Stay tuned!||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/pm-narendra-modi-mann-ki-baat-today-live-updates-101640494201121.html
26-12-2021||India||Trains cancelled in Punjab's Ferozepur amid ongoing 'rail-roko' agitation by farmers. Check details||Several trains have been cancelled and many short terminated amid the ongoing farmers' agitation in the Ferozepur division of the Northern Railway, according to the Indian Railway.The farmers under the banner of the Kisan Mazdoor Sangarsh Committee (KMSC) are holding a ‘rail-roko’ protest to seek a complete waiver of farm loans from the Punjab government and compensation to families whose members died during the course of the stir against the Centre’s farm laws.Farmers have blocked railway tracks at Jandiala in Amritsar-Jalandhar Railway section, Tanda in Jalandhar-Pathankot Section, Tarn Taran in Amritsar-Khemkaran section and Ferozpur in Bathinda-Ferozpur Railway Section since Monday.Due to Kisan agitation in Firozpur Div. of Northern Rly:12925 Bandra (T) - Amritsar Paschim Exp. of 26th & 27th Dec will be short terminate at Ludhiana.12903 Mumbai Central - Amritsar Golden Temple Mail of 26th & 27th Dec will be short terminate at Ludhiana.@RailMinIndiaHere is a list of those trains:Train No. 19415 Ahmedabad - Shri Mata Vaishno Devi Katra Express of December 26, 2021Train No. 19416 Shri Mata Vaishno Devi Katra - Ahmedabad Express of December 28, 2021While the trains that have been short terminated and accordingly short originated are:Train No. 19027 Bandra Terminus - Jammu Tawi Express of December 25, 2021, short terminated at Dhuri JunctionTrain No. 12903 Mumbai Central - Amritsar Golden Temple Mail of December 25, 2021, short terminated at Ludhiana JunctionTrain No. 12925 Bandra Terminus - Amritsar Paschim Express of December 25, 2021, short terminated at Ludhiana JunctionTrain No. 19223 Ahmedabad - Jammu Tawi Express of December 25, 2021, short terminated at BhatindaTrain No. 12919 Dr. Ambedkar Nagar - Shri Mata Vaishno Devi Katra Malwa Express of December 25, 2021, short terminated at New DelhiTrain No. 12473 Gandhidham - Shri Mata Vaishno Devi Katra Express of December 25, 2021, will short terminated at UmbalaTrain No. 19224 Jammu Tawi - Ahmedabad Express of December 26, 2021, will short originate from BhatindaTrain No. 12926 Amritsar-Bandra Terminus Paschim Express of December 26, 2021, will short originate from ChandigarhTrain No. 19028 Jammu Tawi - Bandra Terminus Express of December 27, 2021, will short originate from Dhuri JnTrain No. 12904 Amritsar-Mumbai Central Golden Temple Mail of December 26, 2021, will short originate from LudhianaTrain No. 12920 Shri Mata Vaishno Devi Katra - Dr. Ambedkar Nagar Malwa Express of December 26, 2021, short terminated at New DelhiTrain No. 12478 Shri Mata Vaishno Devi Katra - Jamnagar Express of December 26, 2021, will short originate from New DelhiTrain No. 12476 Shri Mata Vaishno Devi Katra - Hapa Express of December 27, 2021, will short originate from Ambala.(With ANI inputs)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/trains-cancelled-in-punjab-s-ferozepur-amid-ongoing-rail-roko-agitation-by-farmers-check-details-101640492821371.html
26-12-2021||India||India's Omicron tally rises to 422, daily Covid infections at 6987||As many as 422 cases of the Omicron variant have been reported in India thus far, the Union health ministry said on Sunday, adding that 6987 more people tested positive for the coronavirus disease (Covid-19), pushing the national caseload to 34,786,802.According to the official data, as shared by the health ministry, Maharashtra (108) has reported the highest number of Omicron infections in the country, followed by Delhi (79), Gujarat (43), Telangana (41), Kerala (38), Tamil Nadu (34), Karnataka (31) and Rajasthan (22).Also Read | Centre deploys expert teams to 10 states showing rapid surge in covid casesOverall, patients of this fresh coronavirus variant have been detected across 13 states and four Union territories (Delhi, Jammu & Kashmir, Chandigarh and Ladakh). Of these 422 patients, 130 have been discharged after testing negative, the data also showed.Meanwhile, as per the latest figures, the nationwide count of active Covid-19 infections is at 76,766, a fall of 266 cases from the day before. 7091 additional patients recovered from the virus, taking the total number of such cases to 34,230,354. Daily toll was recorded at 162, with 479,682 fatalities till now.Recoveries, deaths and active cases constitute 98.40%, 1.38% and 0.22% of the cumulative tally.Prime Minister Narendra Modi, in an impromptu address to the nation last night, urged people to stay vigilant in view of the Omicron threat. PM Modi also announced that the nationwide Covid-19 vaccination drive will open for the 15-18 age group from January 3. Also Read | PM Modi announces Covid-19 jabs for kids, boosters for 60+He further said that beginning January 10, health care and frontline workers, as well as senior citizens with co-morbidities, will become eligible for a ‘precautionary’ or booster shot.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/indias-omicron-tally-rises-to-422-daily-covid-infections-at-6987-101640491459100.html
26-12-2021||India||30 coal mines auctioned, Coal Ministry expecting revenue generation of 8,158 cr||The Ministry of Coal has auctioned two more coal mines taking the tally of commercial auctioned mines to 30 which are likely to generate revenue of ₹8,158 crore, the Ministry of Coal said in a statement.According to a statement by the Ministry of Coal on Saturday, the 30 coal mines comprise 23 fully explored mines and 7 partially explored mines."With the conduct of this auction, Ministry of Coal has successfully auctioned 30 mines till date (comprising of 23 fully explored mines and 7 partially explored mines) from the launch of the first tranche in June 2020," said the statement."Total Peak rated capacity auctioned till date is 63.17 MTPA with an average premium of approximately 27.78 per cent against the floor price of 4 per cent indicating strong demand for coal mines in market. These mines are expected to generate total annual revenue of nearly ₹8,158.03 crore and estimated employment of 85,406," the statement further added.The Ministry of Coal had launched the 2nd attempt of the auction of eleven coal mines for commercial mining on September 27, 2021, and bids were received for four mines. The auction was held for two mines that have received multiple bids.Commercial coal mine auction has witnessed strong competition and several first-time participants from the 'non-end user' category like Real Estate, Infrastructure, Pharma, etc., have also emerged as successful bidders in the auction, which is a positive sentiment shared by the industry after removal of 'End Use' criteria from the bidding process and is expected to bring in more efficiency and technological advancement in the mining industry, according to the statement.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/30-coal-mines-auctioned-coal-ministry-expecting-revenue-generation-of-8-158-cr-101640491262174.html
26-12-2021||India||Pak based Khalistani radical is the real face of Ludhiana blast||A Pakistan-based radical, who along with a pro-Khalistan terrorist in Germany played a crucial role in the blast inside the sessions court in Punjab’s Ludhiana, is reportedly sheltered by terrorist groups in the neighbouring country as well as Inter-Services Intelligence (ISI).‘Category A’ wanted gangster and Khalistani radical, Harvinder Singh Sandhu, who uses the alias Rinda Sandhu, and Jaswinder Singh Multani, a Germany based pro-Khalistan terrorist, have been tasked by the Pakistani spy agency ISI to carry out terror attacks to destabilise Punjab in ahead of the assembly elections next year, security officials have said.Intelligence inputs show Sandhu, who is about 35 years old, is suspected to be living in Pakistan after acquiring an Indian passport on a fake identity by changing his appearance. He is associated with Babbar Khalsa International chief Wadhawa Singh, who is based in Lahore.Sandhu, who migrated to Nanded in Maharashtra from the Sarhali village in Punjab’s Tarn Taran district, is also involved in large scale cross border smuggling of drugs and weapons.“He is most wanted A+ Category Gangster of Punjab. He is also wanted in Maharashtra, Chandigarh, Haryana and West Bengal etc,” officials said.Sandhu was arrested for the first time after he killed a man in 2008 over personal enmity in Tarn Taran. He was sentenced to life imprisonment for the murder and spent time in different jails of Punjab. In October 2014, he was released on bail from the Nabha jail.He also killed a granthi of a gurdwara and disposed of his body in a canal in the Gurdaspur district of Punjab in 2016 to avenge the killing of his brother. He also killed two other men in Nanded and Wazirabad—both in Maharashtra—again to avenge his brother.He has been declared an absconder and is wanted in at least 30 criminal cases, including 10 murders, 6 cases of attempt to murder, 7 cases of dacoities and snatching besides abductions, extortions and cases under the Arms Act and NDPS Act.In 2017, Sandhu managed to escape from a hotel during a routine checking in West Bengal but the police arrested Harpreet Kaur, who he married earlier that year, and another couple.In 2018, after his arrest gangster Dilpreet Singh Dhahan alias Baba for a shooting attempt at Punjabi singer Parmish Verma disclosed that Sandhu, his associate, was in touch with the Pakistan-based terrorist and Babbar Khalsa International (BKI) chief Wadhawa Singh Babbar.Declared an absconder, Sandhu appeared in an interview on the web news channel Pro Punjab on June 24, 2021.
26-12-2021||India||Islamic State terrorist, involved in killing of police inspector, gunned down in J&K’s Anantnag||A terrorist affiliated with the regional Islamic State (IS) unit was gunned down by a joint force of the Indian Army and Jammu and Kashmir (J&K) police on Sunday morning in the Anantnag district, officials said.Vijay Kumar, the inspector-general (IGP) of Kashmir Zone police, said the terrorist has been identified as Faheem Bhat, who recently joined the Islamic State of Jammu and Kashmir (ISJK). The ISJK is an affiliate outfit of the IS active in Jammu and Kashmir as part of its broader Khorasan (Islamic State – Khorasan Province or IS-K) branch in South Asia and Central Asia.“Neutralised #terrorist identified as Faheem Bhat of Kadipora #Anantnag,” tweeted Kashmir Zone Police on Sunday morning, following the encounter. “He has recently joined #terror outfit ISJK and was involved in killing of Martyr ASI Mohd Ashraf, who was posted at PS Bijbehara.”Officials of the Kashmir police said Faheem Bhat was involved in the killing of an on-duty assistant sub-inspector (ASI) Mohammad Ashraf Dar on December 22 outside the Bijbehara police station.#AnantnagEncounterUpdate: Neutralised #terrorist identified as Faheem Bhat of Kadipora #Anantnag. He has recently joined #terror outfit ISJK and was involved in killing of Martyr ASI Mohd Ashraf, who was posted at PS Bijbehara: IGP Kashmir@JmuKmrPolice https://t.co/0zSnVKBufuThe ISJK terrorist was killed after an encounter broke out between the security forces and the terrorists in the K Kalan of Srigufwara in J&K's Anantnag district on Saturday night.On Saturday, two Ansar Gazwat uL Hind (AuGH) and two Lashkar-e-Taiba (LeT) terrorists were killed in two separate encounters.According to the Combating Terrorism Centre at West Point, one of the causes of concern associated with the spread of the ISJK in J&K is the existing instability within the region that provokes such transnational terrorist outfits to infuse the Kashmiri jihad with pan-Islamist ideology.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/islamic-state-terrorist-involved-in-killing-of-police-inspector-gunned-down-in-j-k-s-anantnag-101640486446176.html
26-12-2021||India||News updates from HT: PM Modi to address nation in year’s last Mann Ki Baat episode today, and all the latest news||Here are today’s top news, analysis and opinion. Know all about the latest news and other news updates from Hindustan Times.Prime Minister Narendra Modi will, at 11am on Sunday, address the nation through his monthly Mann Ki Baat radio programme. The latest edition of Mann Ki Baat will be its last for the year, and 84th overall. Read moreThe India Meteorological Department (IMD) has predicted bad weather, induced by a fresh western disturbance and the accompanying cyclonic formation, in several parts of India from today onwards. Read moreIndia will vaccinate children between 15-18 years against Covid-19 from January 3, 2022, amid rising cases linked to the Omicron variant of the coronavirus, Prime Minister Narendra Modi announced on Saturday. Read moreHarbhajan Singh on Friday pulled down curtains on his illustrious career, signing off with 711 international wickets under his belt. During his 23-year stint the off-spinner won two World Cups -- the inaugural ICC World T20 in 2007 and then the ODI World Cup in 2011. Read moreAll through this year, Bollywood celebrities were among the biggest newsmakers, although, not always for the best reasons. From FIRs to IT raids, arrests to social media bans, many stars saw themselves caught up in controversies. Here's revisiting the year that went by. Read moreNewlyweds Katrina Kaif and Vicky Kaushal celebrated their first Christmas together in Mumbai on December 25. The Sardar Udham actor took to his Instagram page yesterday to share a loved up picture of him hugging his wife in front of a beautiful Christmas tree at their home. Read more||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/news-updates-from-ht-pm-modi-to-address-nation-in-year-s-last-mann-ki-baat-episode-today-and-all-the-latest-news-101640486944716.html
26-12-2021||India||New Year 2022: Full list of public holidays in the upcoming year||With the New Year right around the corner, the ministry of personnel, public grievances and pensions has announced a full list of gazetted holidays in 2022.It is mandatory for government offices located outside Delhi to observe 14 holidays in addition to three holidays that can be chosen from the 12 optional days.The 14 mandatory holidays in India include Republic Day, Independence Day, Gandhi Jayanti, Diwali, Christmas, Good Friday, Guru Nanak's Birthday, Eid-ul-Fitr, Eid-ul-Zuha, Mahavir Jayanti, Muharram etc.According to the list released by the government, there are 17 gazetted holidays and 30 restricted holidays in the upcoming year.Also read | Banks in India to be closed for 6 days before 2021 ends. Check details hereThose planning for a holiday in the upcoming year can check the calendar and plan their days ahead accordingly.Here's a list of public holidays in 2022.January 1: New Year's Day (Saturday)January 13: Lohri (Thursday)January 14: Makar Sankranti (Friday)January 26: Republic Day (Wednesday)March 1: Maha Shivratri (Tuesday)March 18: Holi (Friday)April 2: Ugadi (Saturday)April 10: Ram Navami (Sunday)April 14: Mahavir Jayanti, Ambedkar Jayanti (Thursday)April 15: Good Friday (Friday)May 3: Eid-ul-Fitr (Tuesday)May 16: Buddha Purnima (Monday)July 10: Bakri Eid (Sunday)August 9: Muharram (Tuesday)August 11: Rakshabandhan (Thursday)August 15: Independence Day (Monday)August 19: Janmashtami (Friday)August 31: Ganesh Chaturthi (Wednesday)September 8: Onam (Thursday)October 2: Gandhi Jayanti (Sunday)October 5: Dussehra (Wednesday)October 9: Eid-e-Milad (Sunday)October 24: Diwali (Monday)November 8: Guru Nanak Jayanti (Tuesday)December 25: Christmas (Sunday)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/new-year-2022-full-list-of-public-holidays-in-the-upcoming-year-101640484632193.html
26-12-2021||India||Did not say that: Union minister Tomar after remarks on repealed farm laws draw opposition ire||Union agriculture minister Narendra Singh Tomar has said the Centre will not reintroduce farm laws in an amended form after Congress alleged the government is planning to bring back the now-repealed legislation."I did not say this," Tomar said when asked about his statement at an event in Nagpur on Friday during he said the government has moved a "step back" and "will move forward again" while speaking about the farm laws."I had said that the government had made good (farm) laws. We took them back due to some reason. The government will continue to work for the welfare of the farmers," the minister said.Also read | On repealed farm laws, Union minister Tomar talks about govt's future plansPrime Minister Narendra Modi on November 19 apologised to the country and announced the three laws, against which farmers were protesting at the borders of Delhi and other parts of the country for more than a year, will be taken back.Both Houses of Parliament passed the farm laws repeal bill on November 29."We brought the farm laws. Some people did not like them but it was a big reform after 70 years after Independence which was moving ahead under the leadership of Narendra Modiji. But the government is not disappointed,” Tomar said during the event in Nagpur.Also read | Tomar’s remarks on three contentious farm bills trigger row“We moved a step back and we will move forward again because farmers are India's backbone and if the backbone is strengthened, the country will become stronger.”Congress leader Rahul Gandhi said Tomar insulted PM Modi's apology. “The agriculture minister has insulted Modi’s apology — it is highly condemnable. If the anti-agro-farming steps are taken again, then there will be annadata satyagraha again...” Gandhi tweeted.Also read | Only struggle, not poll plunge will help farmers: BKU Ekta-UgrahanCongress spokesperson Randeep Singh Surjewala said PM Modi apologised and repealed the three "black" laws in Parliament fearing defeat in the election of the five states."Tomar's statement has once again exposed the Centre's conspiracy to bring back the three anti-farmer laws. It is clear that after the assembly elections in five states, the central government is planning to bring back the three black laws in a new form and this they are doing under the pressure of capitalists,” Congress general secretary Surjewala said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/after-remarks-on-farm-laws-union-minister-narendra-singh-tomar-clarifies-101640486183680.html
26-12-2021||India||Rain, thunderstorms likely in several regions from today onwards. Details here||The India Meteorological Department (IMD) has predicted bad weather, induced by a fresh western disturbance and the accompanying cyclonic formation, in several parts of India from today onwards. According to the MeT department, light to fairly moderate widespread rainfall and snowfall is likely over the western Himalayan region – the Jammu division and Himachal Pradesh – from December 26-29, with isolated thunderstorms and lightning possible on Sunday.Moreover, isolated rainfall is also likely over multiple regions in western and north-western India, ranging from Punjab, Haryana, Delhi to Rajasthan and Uttar Pradesh.Here's what the IMD predicts in the weather department for the next couple of days:Western Himalayan region: Over the Jammu division and Himachal Pradesh, light/moderate rainfall to fairy widespread/scattered rainfall and accompanying snowfall is likely on December 26-29.Punjab, Haryana, Chandigarh, Delhi: Light to moderate isolated and scattered rainfall is likely during December 26-29. Isolated thunderstorm and lightning, with an accompanying hailstorm, possible on December 28.Rajasthan: Light to moderate isolated and scattered rainfall is likely during December 27-28.Uttar Pradesh: Scattered to fairly moderate rainfall is likely during December 27-29.Madhya Pradesh: Light to moderate isolated and scattered rainfall is likely during December 27-29. Isolated thunderstorm and lightning, with an accompanying hailstorm, possible on December 28 in western Madhya Pradesh, Vidarbha, and Marathwada.Odisha: Light to moderate isolated and scattered rainfall is likely during December 27-29.Vidarbha, Chhattisgarh, Bihar, Jharkhand, and Gangetic West Bengal: Light to moderate isolated and scattered rainfall is likely during December 27-29.-Meanwhile, the minimum temperature at most places in Kashmir dipped this week, ahead of the predicted rains and snowfall. The Kashmir valley is currently under the grip of the 40-day harshest winter period known as ‘Chilla-i-Kalan’ which began on Tuesday.Srinagar recorded a low of 1.7 degrees Celsius on Friday night – down from Thursday night's 2.4 degrees Celsius. The nearby south Kashmir town of Kokernag recorded a low of minus 1.0 degrees Celsius.While many areas in the valley received snowfall on Thursday, the MeT office has said a spell of greater intensity than that is most likely to occur over two days from Sunday. The chances of snowfall are the most frequent and maximum during this period and most areas, especially in the higher reaches, receive heavy to very heavy snowfall.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/rain-thunderstorms-likely-in-several-regions-from-today-onwards-details-here-101640483103361.html
26-12-2021||India||Judiciary faces perennial problems, if unsolved, will haunt my successors too, says CJI Ramana||Stressing the need for stepping up judicial Infrastructure in the country, Chief Justice of India NV Ramana on Saturday said the Judiciary is also facing certain fundamental problems and they continue to haunt his successors also if not solved. Speaking at a Civic Reception in Vijayawada, he further said there are 4.60 crore pending cases in courts and the number is not big for a country like India which has a population of about 150 crore. Maintaining that courts would interfere when there is violation of rights, Justice Ramana said the Executive is also responsible for providing justice and that if it functions within the parameters of law, there is no necessity for anyone to come to courts. “Like all systems, the Judiciary is also facing certain fundamental problems. My predecessors, Chief Justices, also mentioned them. I am also raising those issues. This will be a perennial problem to my successors too, because slowly we are forgetting the importance of Judiciary and legal education,” he said. He said there is a need to develop judicial infrastructure and it would result in more respect towards courts. Justice Ramana was given LifeTime Achievement award by Rotary Club in a felicitation programme. “You all know how important the Rule of Law is. If there is no rule of law in any country, anarchy prevails. It poses a threat to the existence of democracy. There is a necessity to enlighten the public on rule of law,” he said. Indianisation of the country's legal system is the need of the hour and it is crucial to make the justice delivery system more accessible and effective, the CJI said adding simplification of legal procedures is necessary for the common people to understand court proceedings. He said though the nation got independence about 75 years ago, the country is still facing problems such as illiteracy, health issues, poverty, unemployment and superstitions which need to be alleviated. Stating that people should be enlightened about their constitutional rights and responsibilities, Justice Ramana said organistions such as Rotary Club should take up awareness programmes for the public. The Chief Justice is on a three-day tour of Andhra Pradesh. Earlier in the evening, the State government hosted a High Tea for the CJI. Andhra Pradesh Chief Minister YS Jagan Mohan Reddy, along with his wife Bharathi, welcomed the CJI and participated in the programme. Supreme Court Judge Justice JK Maheshwari, and Chief Justices and several judges of Andhra Pradesh and Telangana High Courts also participated.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/judiciary-faces-perennial-problems-if-unsolved-will-haunt-my-successors-too-says-cji-ramana-101640483330936.html
26-12-2021||India||Religious conversions occur due to good work and character, not fear: Ghulam Nabi Azad||Over the ongoing debate on the anti-conversion bills being introduced in states, senior Congress leader and former chief minister of the erstwhile state of Jammu and Kashmir Ghulam Nabi Azad on Saturday said that if anyone is converting people, he is not using a sword adding that it is the good work and character of individuals which influences others to convert.“If anyone is converting people, he is not using a sword. It is good work and character of individuals which influence others to convert. People convert when they see a particular religion serving humanity and not discriminating,” Azad said while addressing an event in Udhampur on Saturday.His statement comes after Opposition in Karnataka alleged that the anti-conversion bill is being proposed in the state to “target a particular religion.” The winter session in the state has witnessed strong opposition against the bill.“No person shall convert or attempt to convert either directly or otherwise any other person from one religion to another by use of misrepresentation, force, undue influence, coercion, allurement or by any fraudulent means or by marriage, nor shall any person abet or conspire for conversions,” the Bill states.Earlier, chief minister Basavaraj Bommai had said the proposed Anti-Conversion Law that the state government intends to introduce in the winter session of Assembly is only to prevent religious conversions by inducements. “Proposed law will not affect any religion, their practices and traditions that are guaranteed under the Constitution,” Bommai had said.Earlier in April this year, Gujarat Vidhan Sabha had passed the ‘Gujarat Freedom of Religion Act, 2021’ with a majority to bring more stringent punishment against forced religious conversions through marriage.Gujarat had become the third state after Uttar Pradesh and Madhya Pradesh to make a law against forced religious conversions.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/religious-conversions-occur-due-to-good-work-and-character-not-fear-ghulam-nabi-azad-101640482372883.html
26-12-2021||India||PM Modi to address nation in year’s last Mann Ki Baat episode today||Prime Minister Narendra Modi will, at 11am on Sunday, address the nation through his monthly Mann Ki Baat radio programme. The latest edition of Mann Ki Baat will be its last for the year, and 84th overall.“Tomorrow at 11 AM! #,” the official Mann Ki Baat handle shared on Twitter, on Saturday.  Tomorrow at 11 AM! #MannKiBaat pic.twitter.com/3Q8Y1CVVDF“PM @narendramodi to share his thoughts in ‘Mann Ki Baat’ programme, Sunday morning at 11 am on @DDNational,” tweeted Doordarshan, the Union government-founded public service broadcaster. PM @narendramodi to share his thoughts in ‘Mann Ki Baat’ programme, Sunday morning at 11 am on @DDNational & Live-Stream on https://t.co/OFUmYgGtxS pic.twitter.com/K36pVYAm0WThe address can be viewed on PM Modi's official YouTube channel. Doordarshan will also live-stream the speech.Mann Ki Baat, the first episode of which aired on October 3, 2014, is usually broadcast on the last Sunday of every month. The penultimate episode of 2021 aired on November 28.In every edition, the Prime Minister talks to the nation on a range of issues, including on events which fell just before that particular address or will be observed in the days to come. In the pandemic times, a major portion of each monthly address has been dedicated to Covid-19.Sunday's speech, therefore, is likely to be on the Omicron variant of the coronavirus, and related issues. In an impromptu address to the nation last night, PM Modi announced that beginning January 3, the nationwide anti-Covid vaccination drive will open for those in the age group of 15-18 as well. He also announced booster shots for healthcare and frontline workers, and citizens above the age of 60 with co-morbidities, from January 10 onwards.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/pm-modi-to-address-nation-in-year-s-last-mann-ki-baat-episode-today-101640481437461.html
26-12-2021||NA||BREAKING: Delhi govt imposes 11pm-5am night curfew from tomorrow, reports ANI||Welcome to hindustantimes.com live updates platform where you can find breaking news from India and across the world. Find fast updates about the latest news as it breaks.Follow all the updates here:Kerala reports 19 more cases of #Omicron, taking the total tally of the state to 57With Indian Omicron tally reaching 422,  Kerala Health Minister Veena George has informed on reports of 19 more positive cases in the state. Earthquake of magnitude 2.8 occurred at Mandi, Himachal Pradesh An earthquake of magnitude 2.8 occurred at Mandi, Himachal Pradesh at 18:50 hours today, as informed by National Center for Seismology (NCS).Delhi govt imposes 11pm-5am night curfew from tomorrow, reports ANINight curfew will be imposed in Delhi from December 26 amid a rapid rise in coronavirus disease (Covid-19) cases, according to people familiar with the development. The night curfew will remain in force from 11pm to 5am.Read MoreMaharashtra reports 31 Omicron infections, 1,648 new Covid casesMaharashtra reported 31 new cases of Omicron variant on Sunday, taking the total tally to 141. Of the new cases, 27 are from Mumbai, two from Thane and one each from Pune rural and Akola.  Delhi reports 290 new Covid cases, 1 death in last 24 hoursAbout 53,000 RT-PCR tests were administered in Delhi, out of which 290 people have tested positive. Mumbai reports 922 fresh Covid cases in last 24 hours, says city's civic body#CoronavirusUpdates25th December, 6:00pmPositive Pts. (24 hrs) - 922Discharged Pts. (24 hrs) - 326Total Recovered Pts. - 7,47,864Overall Recovery Rate - 97%Total Active Pts. - 4295Doubling Rate - 1139 DaysGrowth Rate (19 Dec - 25 Dec)- 0.06%#NaToCoronaTamil Nadu reports 610 new Covid cases, 10 deaths; active cases stand at 6,629Tamil Nadu reports 610 new Covid-19 cases, with 679 discharges, reports ANI.Maharashta school sealed after 48 students, 3 teachers test positive for CovidJawahar Navodaya Vidyalaya school in Takli Dhokeshwar, Ahmednagar sealed after 48 students and 3 staff tested positive for Covid-19. 2 policemen injured after terrorists hurl grenade at police party in J&K's Pulwama, reports PTITwo policemen were injured after terrorists hurled grenades at apolice post in Pulwama, Jammu & Kashmir. Maharashtra’s Sai Baba temple to remain closed for devotees from 9pm-6amDue to the state-imposed night curfew from 9 pm-6 am, Sai Baba Temple of Shirdi, Maharashtra will be closed for devotees during night hours. The regular early morning and night 'aartis' will also be closed for devotees, as informed by Shri Sai Baba Sansthan, Shirdi.Terrorists hurl grenade towards police post in J&K's PulwamaTerrorists hurled grenades towards police post near a post office in J&K's Pulwama, reported ANI. More details are awaited.PM Modi expresses grief and offers condolences over demise of Archbishop Emeritus Desmond TutuArchbishop Emeritus Desmond Tutu was a guiding light for countless people globally. His emphasis on human dignity and equality will be forever remembered. I am deeply saddened by his demise, and extend my heartfelt condolences to all his admirers. May his soul rest in peace.“Archbishop Emeritus Desmond Tutu was a guiding light for countless people globally”, tweets Narendra Modi. “His emphasis on human dignity and equality will be forever remembered. I am deeply saddened by his demise, and extend my heartfelt condolences to all his admirers. May his soul rest in peace.”Nagaland govt says committee to be formed to look into AFSPA withdrawalUnion home minister Amit Shah held a meeting on December 23 to discuss the present scenario in Nagaland, reported ANI. Nagaland government said it was decided that a committee will be instituted to look into the withdrawal of AFSPA in the state.Himachal Pradesh's first Omicron case foundHimachal Pradesh reports first case of Omicron. The person returned from Canada on December 18. The patient's latest RTPCR is negative and her three close contacts have also tested negative: Health departmentSouth Africa's anti-apartheid icon passes away Archbishop Desmond Tutu, South Africa's anti-apartheid icon, passes away at 90.4 new cases of Omicron in OdishaFour new Omicron cases reported in the state, 4 foreign returnees (two from Nigeria, and one each from the UAE and Saudi Arabia) have tested positive. The total number of Omicron cases stand at eight: Niranjan Mishra, Director, Public HealthBoiler blast at factory in Bihar's MuzaffarpurAt least 6 labourers killed, more than a dozen injured in boiler blast at factory in Bihar's Muzaffarpur.From December 28, 10-day night curfew in KarnatakaKarnataka govt announces 10-day night curfew from December 28. Decision to be reviewed after the end of this 10-day period.Karnataka CM holds meet on OmicronBasavaraj Bommai holds a meeting with cabinet colleagues and officials to discuss measures to control the spread of Omicron.Total 422 Omicron cases in India thus far: Health ministryA total of 422 Omicron cases were reported in 17 states/UTs so far. The number of persons recovered is 130: Union health ministryIndia logs 6987 new Covid-19 cases and 162 deathsIndia logs 6987 new Covid-19 cases, 7091 recoveries and 162 deaths. Total tally rises to 34,786,802 including 34,230,354 recoveries, 479,682 deaths and 76,766 active cases.Australia's NSW witnesses record daily Covid surgeNew South Wales, Australia's most populous province, witnesses record rise of 6394 Covid-19 cases in a single-day, up from previous record of 6288 the day before.At least 5 killed in suicide blast in DR CongoA suicide bomber killed at least five people at a crowded bar Saturday in Beni, in the eastern Democratic Republic of Congo, reports AFP citing local officials.Delhi's overall AQI at 430Delhi's air quality again slips to 'severe' category, with the city recording an overall AQI of 430: SAFAR-IndiaChina records 206 new Covid-19 casesChina logs 206 new Covid-19 cases, up from 140 on December 24. Of the new infections, 158 were locally transmitted, according to a statement by the National Health Commission.PM Modi's last Mann Ki Baat for 2021 todayPrime Minister Narendra Modi will, at 11am today, deliver his last Mann Ki Baat address for the year.Record 104,611 new Covid-19 cases in FranceWith 104,611 new Covid-19 cases, France sees its single-day surge. Omicron strain was set to become the dominant variant in France by the end of the year, says health minister.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/live-with-104-611-new-covid-19-cases-france-sees-record-daily-surge-101640475383905.html
26-12-2021||India||Gujarat's 5-day ‘Nadi Utsav’ to begin today||Gujarat's inaugural, five-day ‘Nadi Utsav’ (river festival) will begin on Sunday, as announced by the state government earlier this week. The festival, which will conclude on December 30, will be held to honour three main rivers of the western state: Narmada, Tapi and Sabarmati.During the festival, related events will take place in four different locations, said the Gujarat government.“The opening ceremony will be held on the banks of the Tapi river in Surat, in the presence of chief minister Bhupendra Patel. Then, similar functions will also take place on the banks of the Narmada in Bharuch and Garudeshwar, and that of the Sabarmati in Ahmedabad,” Jitu Vaghani, the Gujarat education minister and spokesperson of the state government, said on December 22 while announcing the festival.“During these five days, various religious as well as cultural events will be held on the banks of the rivers. These include aarti, marathon, seminars, cleaning drives, awareness campaign etc.” Vaghani further informed.The celebrations, the minister said, will come to an end with a ‘maha-aarti’ on the banks of the Sabarmati in Ahmedabad, also in the presence of CM Patel.All decisions with regards to the ‘Nadi Utsav’ were taken in a cabinet meeting chaired by the chief minister on Wednesday.(With PTI inputs)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/gujarats-5-day-nadi-utsav-to-begin-today-101640476482461.html
26-12-2021||India||After PM Modi’s announcement of vaccines for teens, 'precaution dose’, expert says this||A paediatrician has said children above 5 years of age should be vaccinated against the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) next as the doctor welcomed Prime Minister Narendra Modi announcement those in the age group of 15-18 years will be getting the jabs from next month.PM Modi announced the start of vaccination for children in the 15-18 age group from January 3 next year as he emphasised precaution in view of the rising cases of Omicron variant of the coronavirus in the country."It is a welcome decision. The next plan should be to vaccinate children above 5 years old. Paediatricians should be allowed to vaccinate these children in their clinics," Dr Dhiren Gupta, a paediatric pulmonologist at Delhi's Sir Ganga Ram Hospital, told ANI."Not only we should target 13 years plus children, but also we should target 5 years old also. That should be our next plan. All paediatricians should be allowed to vaccinate these children in their clinics if we want to expedite the vaccination process," he added.Also read | PM Modi announces Covid-19 jabs for kids, boosters for 60+Gupta said most of the children from this age group visit paediatric clinics and the process of vaccination can be expedited “rather than limiting it to a few vaccination centres.”Dr Gupta also said the "precaution dose" of the Covid-19 vaccine to healthcare and frontline workers should be given earlier than announced by PM Modi."But why wait till January 10. Every day is important in a pandemic. We know that Omicron is increasing at a fast pace. We will get variations of this virus. A booster dose takes approximately three weeks to make sufficient antibodies. The booster vaccination should start within two or three days. Looking at the entire population, we should start it as soon as possible".Also read | DCGI approves Covaxin for emergency use in age group between 12 and 18 yearsThe Prime Minister also said healthcare and frontline workers, who he said have made a big contribution in keeping the country safe against Covid-19, will be given a “precaution dose” from January 10 next year. "The decision of precaution dose will strengthen the confidence of healthcare and frontline workers," he said.Also read | Centre deploys expert teams to 10 states showing rapid surge in Covid casesHe also said senior citizens with co-morbidities will also have the option to go for a precautionary dose of Covid-19 on the advice of their doctors.The Prime Minister said that 61 per cent of the adult population in the country have been fully vaccinated and 90 per cent of them has received the first dose. India started its vaccination drive on January 16 this year.PM Modi also urged people not to panic and to follow precautions such as masks and washing hands repeatedly.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/pm-modi-announces-vaccines-for-teens-precaution-dose-expert-lists-next-plan-101640476787135.html
26-12-2021||India||4 terrorists killed in 2 gunfights in Kashmir’s Shopian, Pulwama||Four terrorists were killed in two separate encounters in Shopian and Pulwama districts of south Kashmir since last night, police said Saturday.The encounter in Shopian broke out late on Friday night after security forces launched a joint cordon and search operation in Chowgam village based on specific inputs about the presence of the terrorists, a Jammu and Kashmir police spokesperson said.“During the operation, the terrorists were given the opportunity to surrender. However, they fired indiscriminately upon the joint search party. In the ensuing encounter, two militants were killed,” the spokesperson said.The two were identified as Lashkar-e-Taiba terrorists, Sajad Ahmad Chak and Raja Basit Yaqoob. “As per police records, both the terrorists were part of groups involved in several terror cases. Sajad was also instrumental in recruiting youth.”In the second encounter in Hardumir area of Pulwama, officials said two terrorists were killed on Saturday afternoon.Inspector general of police Vijay Kumar identified the slain terrorists as Nadeem Bhat and Rasool, alias, Adil. The two were affiliated with the proscribed terror outfit, Ansar Gazwat uL Hind, Kumar said.A third encounter broke out in Anantnag district late on Saturday. Details of the encounter were not available as of press time.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/4-terrorists-killed-in-2-gunfights-in-kashmir-s-shopian-pulwama-101640462022999.html
26-12-2021||India||Tomar’s remarks on three contentious farm bills trigger row||The central government could reintroduce the three contentious farm laws that it repealed after widespread farmer protests, agriculture minister Narendra Singh Tomar hinted on Friday, sparking criticism by the opposition Congress party.Prime Minister Narendra Modi on November 19 announced that his government will withdraw the three farm laws against which farmers protested at the borders of the national capital and other parts of the country for over a year. Parliament repealed the laws on November 29.“We brought agriculture amendment laws. But some people did not like these laws, which were a big reform brought about 70 years after Independence under Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s leadership,” Tomar said at a public event in Nagpur on Friday. “But the government is not disappointed. We took a step back and we will move forward again because farmers are India’s backbone. And if the backbone is strengthened, the country will definitely get stronger.”The Congress took strong exception to Tomar’s remarks. “The Agriculture Minister has insulted Modi’s apology - it is highly condemnable,” Congfress leader Rahul Gandhi tweeted. “If the anti-agro-farming steps are taken again, then there will be annadata satyagraha again. Had defeated arrogance, will again defeat it.”A “concerted conspiracy” to bring back the three “anti-farmer” laws stood exposed by the statement made by Tomar, Congress spokesperson Randeep Singh Surjewala said.“Perceiving defeat in the ensuing elections to five state assemblies including Uttar Pradesh, Uttarakhand and Punjab, Prime Minister Narendra Modi had apologized and had repealed the three black laws in Parliament,” Surjewala said. “Even then we suspected the intent of the Prime Minister, the BJP and the RSS and the Modi government and had called it a mere election stunt.” The Bharatiya Janata Party and its ideological parent, the Rashtriya Swayamsevak Sangh, had supported to contentious laws.Surejwala appealed to farmers to defeat the BJP in the upcoming assembly polls.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/tomars-remarks-on-three-contentious-farm-bills-trigger-row-101640456069255.html
26-12-2021||India||PM Modi has redefined governance by giving say to common man: Amit Shah||Union home minister Amit Shah on Saturday said the Modi government has taken decisions that are good for the people and not which people would like, even at the cost of political damage.Addressing a function organised on the occasion of Good Governance Day, Shah said people have long been waiting for good governance which was delivered by the Modi government in the last seven years. “People have kept saying that we have got independence (swaraj) long ago but when will we get good governance (su-raaj),” he said.Shah said because of lack of good governance, people’s faith in the country’s democratic system is gradually eroding.But Prime Minister Narendra Modi has brought back people’s faith in democracy by taking the good governance up to the grassroots level, he said.According to Shah, people have realised that Modi came to power in 2014 not to run the government but to provide a clean, transparent and welfare administration, thus changing the face of the country.He said people’s faith in democracy has enhanced since 2014 as they started getting benefits of development undertaken by the Modi government.“Before 2014, many governments have changed. Many government have come, many have gone. But when Prime Minister Narendra Modi came to power, people have realised that his government has come not to run the government but to change the country,” he said.Shah said some earlier governments on some occasions took decisions keeping the vote banks in mind. “But Prime Minister Narendra Modi or the Modi government has never taken decisions which the people would like (jo logon ko acche lagen). He has taken decisions which are good for the people. (jo logon ke liye achhe hon). There is a big difference between the two. Some decisions may bring you popularity for a short time but this means keeping the country in problems,” he said.The home minister said Modi took everyone along and made the efforts of making good governance a reality.Giving example of good governance, he said there has not been a single corruption charge against the Modi government in last seven years as it is a clean and transparent administration.Shah said in the last seven years, the government has taken the benefits of development to 60 crore population who were otherwise deprived of all welfare programmes in last so many decades.He said the Modi government has provided toilets to the poor, constructed houses, given electricity and gas connections free of cost.Shah said the government has framed such policies through which the problems could be rooted out.He said there should always be a government which is sensitive and accountable to the people.“People should have faith in the government and at the same time government should have faith in the people. PTI||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/pm-modi-has-redefined-governance-by-giving-say-to-common-man-amit-shah-101640456008849.html
26-12-2021||India||Complete social audit of midday meal scheme; provide status by Dec 30: Centre||All states and Union territories will have to update the central government by December 30 on the status of the Pradhan Mantri Poshan Shakti Nirman Yojana 2021 that aims to provide free food to schoolchildren for five years.The Centre in September expanded the midday meal programme that aims to provide adequate nutrition and ensure school attendence into the Poshan scheme, and made it mandatory for all states to conduct social audits in every school. About 1.1 million government schools are covered under the welfare programme.All provincial authorities had assured the education ministry that they will conduct social audits at meetings of the Programme Approval Board, the ministry said in a letter sent to the principal secretaries, education secretaries and nodal officers of all states and Union territories on Thursday.Since schools have remained closed for the past year and a half due to the pandemic, authorities have either provided dry rations to students, or given them an allowance. The government now wants to take stock of the implementation of the programme.“The objective of social audit is to create awareness among beneficiaries under the scheme and empower public/ beneficiaries to hold government accountable, to address problems and identify bottlenecks at the grassroots level so that bottom-up and location-specific approach may be adopted for smooth implementation of the programme or scheme,” the ministry’s letter said.The states and Union territories may employ different agencies or departments to conduct public meetings to conduct these audits. In a social audit, the people and the government jointly monitor a scheme.The ministry had earlier sent two letters, on August 26 and September 8, asking provincial authorities to start the social audit in each district.Several states and Union territories have not yet started the auditing process, a ministry official said on condition of anonymity. “The states have now been asked to complete the audit and submit a status report with the ministry on or before December 30,” the official said.
26-12-2021||India||Previous UP govt wasted money meant for poor on ‘kabristans’: Yogi Adityanath||Uttar Pradesh chief minister Yogi Adityanath on Saturday targeted the Samajwadi Party, claiming that its government wasted the “money meant for the poor” on “kabristans”, hired “incompetent Urdu translator” but did nothing for students and teachers of Sanskrit schools.“During the previous government, the money meant for the poor was wasted on subjects like ‘kabristan’ (graveyard). Those who did not even know Urdu language were appointed as Urdu translators but nothing was done for students and teachers of Sanskrit schools,” he said.“The Bharatiya Janata Party government took care of Sanskrit schools,” claimed Adityanath during his visit to Bateshwar, ancestral village of former PM Atal Bihari Vajpayee.He also inaugurated and laid foundation stones of projects worth ₹230 crore in Bateshwar on the former PM’s 97th birth anniversary. “Atalji inspired us all and paved the way for various schemes in favour of the,” he said, while assuring people that the state government will not leave any stone unturned to develop Bateshwar.“The BJP government is now giving tablets and smartphones to the youth in Uttar Pradesh. Besides, there are various schemes operational in the name of Atal Bihari Vajpayee. Medical Colleges, residential schools and intermediate schools are coming up after his name,” said Adityanath.He promised that a museum, cultural complex and a park in the name of Atal Bihari Vajpayee will soon come up in Bateshwar.Referring to income tax raids on premises of some SP leaders, the CM accused the party’s previous government of “looting” people.On income tax raids, Adityanath said the previous government “looted” people. “They have been out of power for the past five years, yet ₹200 crore was unearthed from their houses,” he said. “From where did this money come? It seems it was looted and stored when they were in power in the state,” he alleged. He claimed that the previous government “committed a crime” by denying benefits to the poor. The cash now being unearthed was meant for the poor but misappropriated, he alleged.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/previous-uttar-pradesh-govt-wasted-money-meant-for-poor-on-kabristans-yogi-adityanath-101640455173365.html
26-12-2021||India||PM Modi announces Covid-19 jabs for kids, boosters for 60+||From January next year, India will begin delivering the first coronavirus vaccine doses to children of ages 15 and above and booster doses to health care and frontline workers and people above the age of 60 with certain health conditions, Prime Minister Narendra Modi announced on Saturday.The move comes amid calls from experts to expand the vaccine drive, especially booster doses, to fight new variants such as Omicron, which has shown a substantial drop in vaccine efficacy against symptomatic disease.In a televised address late in the evening, the Prime Minister outlined the preparations the government has made to tackle any surges before he announced the three decisions. “For children who are between the ages of 15 years and 18 years, vaccinations will now start in the country. In 2022, it will be launched on January 3,” he said in his address to the nation.“We all have experience that those who are Corona warriors, health care and frontline workers, they have a huge contribution in keeping the country safe in this fight… Therefore, from the point of view of precaution, the government has decided that a ‘precaution dose’ of vaccine will also be started for health care and frontline workers,” the PM said.He said citizens above 60 years of age and with comorbidities will also have the option of “precaution dose” of the vaccine on the advice of their doctors.What the Prime Minister referred to as “precaution doses” are what has commonly been called boosters, which several countries have rolled out since mid-September.Boosters for health care and frontline workers will open on January 3, and for people aged 60 and above with certain health conditions that put them at a higher risk of severe Covid-19 disease will start on January 10, the PM said.In the context of children, the Drugs Controller General of India (DCGI) on Saturday approved the use of Bharat Biotech’s Covaxin in children aged 12 and above. A second vaccine, too, has been approved by the drugs regulator for use in ages 12 and above – ZyCoV-D, a dose made by Gujarat-based Zydus Cadila. ZyCoV-D is yet to be included in the immunisation programme.“This decision, apart from strengthening India’s fight against Corona, will also help reduce the concern of school and college goers and their parents,” the Prime Minister said. “India needs to be vigilant about the spread of the coronavirus,” Modi said, adding that people should not pay attention to rumours nor panic about rising infection numbers.“In our country, a nasal vaccine and the world’s first DNA vaccine will also start soon,” Modi said, adding that “since the beginning, India’s fight against Corona has been based on scientific principles, scientific opinions and scientific patterns.”“We are in the last week of 2021. 2022 is set to arrive. We need to be cautious during the festive period. Infections are rising across several nations due to a new variant of Covid, Omicron. In India, there have been a few cases as well. I would urge all of you not to panic, be careful and alert,” he said.“Today, the nation has 18 lakh isolation beds, 5 lakh oxygen supported beds, 1.4 lakh ICU beds and 90,000 special beds for kids. Today, we have over 3,000 functional PSA Oxygen plants and 4 lakh cylinders have been provided to all states,” PM Modi added.The issue has been fraught with difficult considerations, since many parts of the world have had limited access, and many people still have not taken their primary course. The World Health Organization, in an interim technical advice shared on December 22, signalled relenting on its stand against booster doses to suggest an approach “firmly evidence-driven and targeted to the population groups at highest risk of serious disease and those necessary to protect the health system”.The need to accelerate vaccine coverage (including booster doses) has been underscored by the rapid spread of the Omicron variant in several countries, where scientists have also found it to be significantly resistant to immunity created by vaccines or a past infection.In the case of some vaccines, such as the AstraZeneca dose (produced and used in India as Covishield), the vaccine efficacy against symptomatic disease has dropped to near-zero when infections have been with Omicron, prompting health experts as well as government leadership in countries such as the US and UK to appeal to people to take their booster shots.To be sure, studies have also shown that the variant is significantly less likely to lead to hospitalisation, partly because vaccine efficacy in preventing serious illness has been more durable.The opening up of the drive comes at a time when the country appears to have ample amount of doses at hand.According to the government’s daily update on vaccine stock availability, 17,74,97,506 doses of coronavirus vaccines were available with states or were in the pipeline, the health ministry said on Saturday.“Protection of persons at high risk of severe disease or high viral exposure is a high priority. The decision is timely. Including of the 15-18 year age is also appropriate if supplies and vaccination teams are available to meet the needs of the expanded vaccination programme,” said Dr K Srinath Reddy, senior public health expert and founder, Public Health Foundation of India.Gagandeep Kang, a senior vaccine expert and senior faculty, Christian Medical College, Vellore, said: “It is bound to have some benefit, how much I don’t know since I don’t know what the data is on severe disease in the groups now targeted.”Paediatricians also said the decision was timely. “A timely decision to open vaccines for children above 15..High school students have board exams and entrance exams to take so they rightfully be the first group of children to get vaccinated,” said Dr Anupam Sibal, senior paediatrician and group medical director, Apollo Hospitals.
26-12-2021||India||Dalit students refuse meals cooked by woman from upper caste at Uttarakhand||Dalit students in a school in Uttarakhand boycotted the midday meal prepared by an upper caste cook days after upper caste students refused to eat meals cooked by a Dalit woman, who was subsequently fired.Of the 66 students of classes 6 to 8, 58 were present on Friday, Prem Singh, principal of the Government Inter College of Sukhidhang in Champawat district, said. “When the midday meal was served, 23 Dalit students refused to eat the food cooked by the upper caste bhojanmata (cook),” Singh said. “They said if upper caste students boycott the food cooked by a Dalit bhojanmata, they will boycott the meal cooked by the upper caste woman.”A row erupted at the school last week when upper caste students refused to eat the food cooked by Sunita Devi, a Dalit woman, who was hired on December 13.Devi was removed from her post on December 21, with the state’s education department citing procedural lapses in her appointment.“We had received 11 applications for a Bhojanmata post. She (Devi) was selected for the post on December 5 in a meeting,” principal Singh said. “When the row of boycotting midday meals erupted, our senior officers held an inquiry into the matter and cancelled her appointment on December 21, saying due process was not followed.”Devi and her husband, Prem Ram, work as farm hands.After she was fired, Devi approached the local administration in Tanakpur of Champawat and police outpost in Chalthi, complaining about caste discrimination. The police, however, is yet to register a case.Subsequently, Vimilesh Upreti, 37, a woman from an upper caste, was appointed in Devi’s place.“I tried to persuade the Dalit children to have the midday meal on Friday, but they refused,” Upreti said on Saturday.Devi, however, said that Dalit students were giving a befitting reply to the upper caste people. “If upper caste students don’t eat the midday meal cooked by a Dalit bhojanmata, how can Dalit students have the meal cooked by an upper caste woman,” she asked.The parent teacher association, meanwhile, has alleged that Devi is provoking children to eat the food prepared by the new cook. “This is not a case of discrimination but a matter of faulty process in appointment of Sunita Devi. She is now provoking the children,” said Narendra Joshi, president of the parent teacher association.By firing a Dalit cook, the state government has hurt the self-respect of Dalits, tweeted Chandrashekhar Azad, the chief of Bhim Army, a group that fights caste discrimination. “If the Dalit woman is not reinstated, the Bhim Army will gherao of chief minister Pushkar Singh Dhami,” Azad said.“We are waiting for the inquiry report and will take proper action accordingly,” said RC Purohit, chief education officer, Champawat district. “As far as boycott of Dalit students is concerned, we will go to the school again and will sort out the matter of purported discrimination.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/now-dalit-students-refuse-to-have-midday-meals-cooked-by-woman-from-upper-caste-at-uttarakhand-school-101640455170987.html
26-12-2021||India||Breakaway farmer unions say they will contest Punjab polls||Twenty-two farmer unions, that protested against the Centre’s now repealed farm laws under the banner of the Samyukt Kisan Morcha (SKM), on Saturday jumped into the poll fray and announced a political outfit, the Sanyukt Samaj Morcha (SSM).After a meeting that lasted nearly four hours on Saturday, farm leader Balbir Singh Rajewal was appointed the leader of the outfit, people familiar with the matter said.There is a need to change the system, Rajewal told reporters after the meeting. “A new Sanyukt Samaj Morcha is formed for contesting Punjab Assembly elections. Twenty-two unions have taken this decision. We need to change the system and want to appeal to people to support this morcha,” Rajewal, who heads the Rajewalfaction of the Bharatiya Kisan Union (BKU) said.The announcement came even as the SKM, the umbrella body of farmer unions that spearheaded the yearlong agitation against the three agriculture laws, distanced itself from the outfit floated on Saturday.A statement issued by the coordination committee of the SKM reiterated that the farm body is firm on its stand of not allowing any political party to use its banner. “Any attempt to use the name of SKM for elections will constitute a grave violation of Morcha’s discipline,” the statement said.Earlier in the day, SKM leaders said that the outfit has more than 400 different ideological organisations across the country as its members and is formed only to fight for the issues of farmers.In a surprise announcement on November 19, Prime Minister Narendra Modi announced his government’s decision to withdraw the three contentious farm laws after year-long protests. Days later, both Houses of Parliament passed the Farm Laws Repeal Bill, 2021, on November 29 by voice vote to annul the laws enacted in September 2020.The SSM will contest from all constituencies in the 117-seat Punjab assembly, said Harmeet Singh Qadian, leader of the Qadian faction of BKU.Of the 32 farmer unions from the state that participated in the year-long protests under the SKM, 10 have said they will not participate in the elections.At the media briefing, jointly addressed by representatives of the 22 organisations, the farm leaders said that three more outfits – BKU (Lakjowal), BKU (Dakounda) and Kirti Kisan Union, are likely to join the SSM soon.BKU (Dakounda) representatives are likely to meet SSM leaders on December 27 in this regard, the general secretary of the outfit, Jagmohan Singh, said.Rajewal said that the state needs to vote “traditional parties” out of power in the upcoming elections.“Punjab needs a radical transformation,” he said, urging the people to not “get swayed” by the parties that have been in power in the state for decades.Unemployment, exodus of the youthand the drugs menace are the issues concerning the state and need to be tackled effectively, another leader said at the briefing.Addressing reporters, Kadian said that a large number of people were cut off from other political parties for opposing the government’s stand on the farm laws. “Now they want us to give them a platform,” he said, expressing confidence that traders, labourers and farmers will all support the SSM.Some of the constituents of the political outfit objected to the name, Sanyukt Kisan Party, which was proposed earlier. A consensus on the name was reached at the meeting on Saturday, people familiar with the details of the meeting said.Another meeting of the outfit to work out an election strategy is likely soon, the people said.Responding to a question on an alliance with the Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) ahead of the elections, the SSM leaders said a decision would be taken closer to the polls.The statement came amid reports that Rajewal was offered a key post by AAP national convener and Delhi chief minister Arvind Kejriwal if the party wins the elections.“Our strategy is that the votes opposed to the Congress, the Bharatiya Janata Party and the Akali Dal should not be divided further. Let us see it is planned,” All India Kisan Federation president, Prem Singh Bhangu, said.In the 2017 Punjab Assembly polls, Congress won an absolute majority in the state by winning 77 seats and ousted the SAD-BJP government after 10 years. AAP emerged as the second-largest party winning 20 seats. The Shiromani Akali Dal (SAD) could only manage to win 15 seats while the BJP secured three seats.Earlier, farmer leader Gurnam Singh Charuni had also announced the launch of his party, the Sanyukt Sangharsh Party, and accused leaders of promoting capitalism in the state.On November 2, former Punjab chief minister Captain Amarinder Singh resigned from the Congress party and announced a new party, Punjab Lok Congress.
26-12-2021||India||Centre deploys expert teams to 10 states showing rapid surge in covid cases||The 10 states that have seen a surge in Covid-19 infections will have multidisciplinary teams from the Centre overseeing the situation, the health ministry said through a directive from its disaster management cell. “In view of the rapid surge in cases, and deaths, because of Covid-19… noted in internal reviews, it has been seen that the number of Omicron cases has emerged in some states. It has also been observed that the pace of Covid-19 vaccination in these states is less than the national average,” according to an office memorandum of the ministry on Friday seen by HT. “In wake of this situation, a decision has been taken to deploy multidisciplinary central teams to 10 identified states, some of which are either reporting an increasing number of Omicron and Covid-19 cases, or slow vaccination pace, to aid the efforts of the state and district administration for management of Covid-19.” The teams will be sent to Kerala, Maharashtra, Tamil Nadu, West Bengal, Mizoram, Karnataka, Bihar, Uttar Pradesh, Jharkhand, and Punjab. They will be stationed for 3-5 days, working with state health authorities.The teams have been tasked to look at contact tracing, including surveillance; containment operations; Covid-19 testing, including sending of adequate samples from clusters to the government’s INSACOG lab network for genome sequencing; Covid-appropriate behaviour and its enforcement; availability of hospital beds, sufficient logistics including ambulances, ventilators, medical oxygen, etc.; and progress of vaccinations. “The state-level central teams will assess the situation, suggest remedial actions and submit a report every evening by 7 pm on the public health activities being undertaken to the disaster management cell besides submitting the same to state government…,” the order read. Although the number of new daily cases is declining, India’s Covid-19 case positivity rate remains at 5.3%. A case positivity rate of below 5% for two weeks is necessary to contain any outbreak. “There are regional variations, as some states are still reporting a very high number of cases. What is the cause for concern for us is that the case positivity rate in Kerala, which is 6.1%, and Mizoram (8.2%),” health secretary Rajesh Bhushan said on Friday during the ministry’s pandemic briefing. “Compared to the national case positivity rate, both the states are showing very high case positivity.” India has so far has administered first vaccine doses to at least 89% of the adult population, and around 61% is fully vaccinated. There still are at least 11 states that have vaccinated a lower number of people than the national average, for both the first and second doses, according to the health ministry. “We have engaged with these states on a continuous basis, and last such review was held on Thursday where it was discussed how to increase the coverage,” Bhushan said on Friday. The central teams will review all parameters, and look to plug the gap along with the local administration.“The health ministry has rushed teams in the past to states, which seem to have been reporting higher cases or deaths, or inadequate testing related to Covid,” a health ministry official said on condition of anonymity. “These teams act as a guiding force on the ground, and their feedback helps in effective use of strategies to manage the pandemic.”
26-12-2021||India||Day after minister Harak Rawat walks out of cabinet, Dhami says issue resolved||A day after Uttarakhand minister Harak Singh Rawat reportedly stormed out of a cabinet meeting upset over an infrastructure project in his constituency, chief minister Pushkar Singh Dhami dismissed reports of the minister’s resignation.State BJP chief Madan Kaushik and MLA Umang Sharma were among the other leaders who termed reports of Rawat’s exit as “baseless”.Calls and texts to Rawat – who represents the Kotdwar constituency — for comment went unanswered.Speaking to reporters in Dehradun on Saturday, Kaushik said “all is well in BJP”.“Reports of Harak Singh resigning from the government and party are totally baseless. He has not resigned and the party is united ahead of upcoming state assembly elections,” said Kaushik.He added that Rawat was unhappy over the issue of a proposed medical college in Kotdwar.“Yes, there was some unhappiness on his part regarding the medical college. But it has now been solved. He is our senior leader, and party will support him,” he said.CM Dhami too reiterated Kaushik’s statement. “The party is a family and in a family, sometimes such things happen. However, it has been solved with the government approving an initial fund of ₹5crore for the college.”Earlier, BJP MLA and Harak Singh’s close aide Umesh Sharma had claimed that “the issue has been resolved with no resignation from Rawat.”He said, “It was not a big issue. The episode happened over the lack of approval of a proposed medical college in his constituency of Kotdwar. It has now been resolved as the government has approved it and would likely pass its government order on Monday,” Sharma said.The whole episode also led to speculations of Rawat joining Congress which he had left in 2016 during the party’s government under then CM Harish Rawat, who is now leading the party’s election campaign committee.Opposition Congress meanwhile, claimed the BJP was facing factionalism.Leader of Opposition Pritam Singh said, “BJP is reaping what it sowed… In 2016, BJP committed a felony by taking down a democratically-elected Congress government by breaking away its MLAs through money. Friday’s episode is the result. People of Uttarakhand have not forgetten,” said Singh.Former CM and party national general secretary Harish Rawat, however, said in a veiled reference: “I have no information whether he is in touch with any of our leaders as the development is being monitored by party state president Ganesh Godiyal. However, I want to say that, those who committed crime against democracy in 2016, have to first apologise before the state’s public. I am not sitting with a stick to check who is coming to the party and who is not.”
26-12-2021||India||Course correction important for Congress to win Uttarakhand polls: Harish Rawat||A “course correction” is necessary for the Congress to script a victory in the upcoming Uttarakhand assembly elections, the party’s campaign committee chairman Harish Rawat said on Saturday.“Some course correction is important to win the upcoming elections,” Rawat said at a media briefing.The rethinking comes a day after Rawat met Rahul Gandhi. He had earlier posted several tweets that were seen as his unhappiness with the party’s election strategy. Rawat was replaced by Harish Chaudhary two months ago as the party’s chief election strategist for the Punjab assembly elections due in early 2022, the same as Uttarakhand.“One thing we all should understand is that the AICC (All India Congress Committee) is the boss, just like the BCCI (Board of Control for Cricket in India). The election in-charges are like a coach. But the playing captain, too, is important,” the former Uttarakhand chief minister said on Saturday. “So, there should be a relation of confidence and understanding among the three.”“If you play at cross purposes, the match will be lost,” the veteran party leader said. “Therefore, whatever I said was so that we would win the match. If I would have said it normally, then people would have accused me of political adjustments. So, expressing pain often benefits the party, and I think it will benefit the party.”Taking a dig at former Punjab chief minister Amarinder Singh and Congress parliamentarian Manish Tewari, Rawat said they were regretting quitting the Congress.Rawat served as chief minister of Uttarakhand between 2014 and 2017, and the party sees the 2022 assembly polls as an opportunity to return to power since the Bharatiya Janata Party is roiled by troubles of its own. The ruling party has changed the chief minister three times in the past year.The BJP has 55 members the assembly of 70 members; the Congress has 12.Queried on his meeting with Gandhi, Rawat said it has been made clear that everyone has to work together. “I will lead as the campaign committee chairman, and everyone will support me,” he said.However, the Congress has stopped short of announcing Rawat as its chief ministerial candidate.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/course-correction-important-for-congress-to-win-uttarakhand-polls-harish-rawat-101640454327147.html
26-12-2021||India||DCGI approves Covaxin for emergency use in age group between 12 and 18 years||The Drugs Controller General of India (DCGI) on Saturday granted approval for restricted use in emergency situation to Bharat Biotech’s Covaxin in the paediatric age group between 12 and 18 years, people familiar with the matter said, making it the second vaccine after Zydus Healthcare’s ZyCoV-D that was approved for use in children aged 12 years and above.“Yes, DCGI has granted approval for use of Covaxin in children,” confirmed a senior government official aware of the matter, on condition of anonymity.However, it is still time before the Union health ministry starts jabbing children under the national Covid-19 immunisation programme as it is waiting for the expert scientific opinion on the matter.“Even though the approval has been granted by the DCGI for paediatric emergency use of Covaxin, we will await the inputs of the standing group on Covid of NTAGI (National Technical Advisory Group on Immunisation) on lowering the age of beneficiaries,” said a senior health ministry official, requesting anonymity. The approval from DCGI came nearly 10 weeks after the subject expert committee of central drugs standard control organisation (CDSCO) recommended Covaxin’s use in children on October 12, this year, based on the clinical trials data submitted by the Hyderabad-based company.Covaxin is one of the two anti-Covid vaccines being currently used in India’s Covid-19 immunisation programme; the other vaccine being Oxford-AstraZeneca vaccine that is being locally manufactured by Serum Institute of India under the brand name Covishield.For a vaccine to be included formally in the government’s coronavirus immunisation campaign for children or adults, DCGI’s approval is mandatory.It is for the first time that DCGI has taken this long to approve recommendations of the subject expert committee of CDSCO with regard to a Covid-19 vaccine; so far the DCGI approval has been granted in a day or two max. Six anti Covid-19 vaccines have been granted emergency use authorization by the national drugs regulator so far based on the recommendations of the subject expert committee.“The drugs controller general of India took his time to approve the vaccine for paediatric use after carefully scrutinizing the data and looking at some additional data from around the world where vaccination in children has begun. It is a sensitive matter, which is why it made sense to be thorough before granting the approval,” said a senior official in the Union ministry of health and family welfare, on condition of anonymity.“We will have to be extremely careful when talking about Covid-19 vaccination in children as even the developed countries that have begun vaccinating their children have been treading cautiously,” added the official cited above.According to the conditions laid down by the subject expert committee, the company should submit safety data, including the data on adverse event following immunisation (AEFI) and adverse event of special interest (AESI), with due analysis, every 15 days for the first two months and monthly thereafter and also as per requirement of New Drugs and Clinical Trials Rules, 2019. The company should also continue the study as per the approved clinical trial protocol and provide updated prescribing information/package Insert (Pl), Summary of Product Characteristics (SmPC) and Factsheet. Experts welcome the approval and say it is high time children are also vaccinated against Covid-19.“Children may not get severe disease but there will always be the risk of others getting infected through children, especially elders and those at high risk in the family. Government should take a stand on it soon as the numbers currently are low,” said Dr Vikas Maurya, director and head of respiratory medicine department, Fortis Healthcare. 
